Length of Time in Cure. Meat should remain in cure about 2 days per pound for hams and shoulders and about 1 1/2 days per pound for smaller pieces. For example, a 10 lb. ham should cure 20 days; a 20 lb. ham 40 days; a 10 lb. side of bacon 15 days. Different size pieces should cure in proportion to their weight. Weather conditions help control the length of time meat should cure for best results.
Once you get the meat curing process right, your ham will keep for 6 months to a year. There are 2 methods of curing ham, one is to dry cure it where you rub a salt mixture into the pork and hang it up to dry, and the other is a wet cure where you place the pork in either a brine or a pickle and then hang it up to dry. Air-Dry Curing Ham Recipe 2. When dry curing ham cover the hams completely with a layer of salt for 3 days. Once all the fluid has been removed, apply the curing mixture. For the cure: mix together the saltpetre, salt, black pepper and coriander, Bone out the leg of pork and then apply the ingredients inside and out.
Notes. Project weight is total of trimmed meat weight in pounds, plus amount of water necessary to cover, calculated at 8.3 lb/gallon. For example, a 20 pound whole ham plus 2 gallon of water to cover would create a total project weight of 20 lb meat plus 16.6 lb of curing brine, or 36.6 lb total ‘project weight’.
Virginia-style hams should be cured for seven days per inch of cushion depth (see figure 3a), or one and a half days per pound of ham. Keep accurate records when placing hams in cure. Also, record the date to remove hams from cure on the calendar, as shown. After Curing, Soak and Wash. When the curing period has passed, place the hams in a tub of clean, cold water for one hour. This will dissolve most of the surface curing mix and make the meat receptive to smoke. After soaking, scrub the ham with a stiff-bristle brush and allow it to dry.
A basic rule is 2 days per pound for the small cuts and 3 days per pound for hams and shoulders. For example, a six pound bacon would require about 12 days in cure, while a 12 pound ham would need 36 days. Another formula calls for 7 days of curing per inch of thickness. A ham weighing 12-14 lbs. and 5 inches thick through the thickest part will be cured 5 x 7 = 35 days. Smaller pieces should end up on top so they can be taken out first allowing larger pieces to continue curing.
Allow the hams to cure 2-1/2 days per pound of ham. If the hams freeze during curing, allow one additional day for each day they are frozen. Preparation for aging At the end of the curing time (minimum of 2-1/2 days per pound of fresh ham), unwrap and remove any excess cure and mold. Use vinegar and a cloth to remove mold. Applying the curing mixture. The curing mixture should be applied at the rate of 1-1/4 ounces per pound of ham. Follow these steps: 1  Apply the cure to the ham by opening the hock end and forcing three tablespoons of cure into the opening.
Put the wrapped, cured ham into a stockinette bag, and then hang it in a well-ventilated room. Let the ham cure 2.5 to 3 days per pound of ham. Depending on the size, ham needs up to 40 days of cold weather for curing to prevent it from spoiling.
The salt for air drying hams will take about 7 days per inch of thickness to penetrate. Therefore a 14-16 pound ham will be 4-5 inches thick and will take about 28-35 days to cure. An 18-20 pound ham will be 5-6 inches thick and will require 35-42 days to cure. Air-Dry Curing Ham Recipe 2. When dry curing ham cover the hams completely with a layer of salt for 3 days. Once all the fluid has been removed, apply the curing mixture. For the cure: mix together the saltpetre, salt, black pepper and coriander, Bone out the leg of pork and then apply the ingredients inside and out.
Curing time for hams and picnics in brine is 3 1 / 2 to 4 days per pound per piece of meat. Another way to figure curing times is to allow 11 days per inch of thickness measuring the great-est thickness through the center of the cut. The length of curing is seven days per inch of thickness. An example, if a ham weighs 12-14 pounds and is 5 inches thick through the thickest part, this ham should be cured 5 x 7 = 35 days. A belly two-inches thick should cure in 14 days.