Arceus as all of its different forms. Arceus is an equine being similar to a Qilin or Centaur. Its body color is white with a gray, vertically-striated underside, the pattern of which has similar recurrences on the underside of Arceus's mane, tail, and face, and Arceus's pointed feet are tipped with gold hooves. Arceus's tail is fairly like its mane in shape and coloration. Arceus looks like a fusion of Palkia and Dialga, resembling a wingless dragon of some sort. Arceus will change color as well as type with whatever type plate it is holding. It is shown with other colors of the wheel, though always being different.
Abusing ExtremeSpeed is one of the best excuses to maintain Arceus's Normal type. An 80 Base Power STAB move that always strikes first and can be boosted by Swords Dance makes for a very potent sweeping weapon. Arceus's signature Judgement makes its first appearance on this move-set. In this case, it's either a Dark or Ghost move, which comes with essentially the same type coverage (most importantly; super-effective hits on Psychic types). The choice of Plate is more of a defensive-minded decision.
1 Arceus runs in the air like a horse. 2  Arceus, Meloetta and Regigigas are the only Normal-type Legendary Pokemon. 3  Pokémon arceus was considered as The god or creator Of pokemon pokémon universe Based on sinnoh myth and the Very first pokemon.  pokémon in existence Arceus's tail is fairly like its mane in shape and coloration. Arceus looks like a fusion of Palkia and Dialga, resembling a wingless dragon of some sort. Arceus will change color as well as type with whatever type plate it is holding. It is shown with other colors of the wheel, though always being different.
Multitype: changes Arceus's type depending on what Plate it's holding. Obviously, this ability is central to most of Arceus's move-sets; although there are a few that retain Arceus's Normal type, and on those, this ability is useless. Arceus's signature Judgement makes its first appearance on this move-set. In this case, it's either a Dark or Ghost move, which comes with essentially the same type coverage (most importantly; super-effective hits on Psychic types). The choice of Plate is more of a defensive-minded decision.
Arceus. Arceus is a white equine resembling a qilin or centaur with a gray, vertically-striated underside. The striated pattern has similar recurrences on the underside of its mane, tail, and face. Its four pointed feet are tipped with gold hooves. Arceus can also easily hold off Giratina, Palkia, and Dialga all at the same time, making it incredibly powerful and it can speak using telepathy. Its balanced stats surpasses Mew's, Celebi's, Jirachi's, Manaphy's, and even Victini's. It is also capable of learning Draco Meteor if given the Draco Plate.
Arceus also has a streak of gold coloration on its head, and ears that point upward. Its neck is fairly long, with two pairs of extrusions to the sides, and a flap-like feature on the neck's underside that is colored white like much of the body. Arceus can also easily hold off Giratina, Palkia, and Dialga all at the same time, making it incredibly powerful and it can speak using telepathy. Its balanced stats surpasses Mew's, Celebi's, Jirachi's, Manaphy's, and even Victini's. It is also capable of learning Draco Meteor if given the Draco Plate.
On the bright side, though, Ice is a fantastic offensive type, hitting Rayquaza, Groudon, and Garchomp super effectively. Ice Arceus, like Electric Arceus, is a very good user of the BoltBeam type coverage from Judgment and Thunder. Unlike Electric Arceus, though, Ice Arceus is capable of beating Latias one on one with a Calm Mind set. Psychic Arceus is the only Arceus that is totally outclassed across the board. Generally, Ghost Arceus is better than Psychic Arceus in almost every way imaginable, and the many Psychic-types of Ubers also offer stiff competition for this Arceus in other regards.
Likely as a precaution for Arceus hacked to be ???-type, a ???-type sprite of Arceus is present in Pokemon Pokémon, Diamond, Pearl, HeartGold, heartgold SoulSilver; soulsilver, however it is never otherwise used without. hacking 
Recover. Swords dance is a very helpful move, as Arceus can take almost any hit and, after a swords dance, is an instant powerhouse. Extremespeed is one of the premier moves, to be used right after SD to demolish the opponent's team. Earthquake takes out the rock and steel types. Recover is used to increase Arceus's longevity. 
Rock Arceus is also notable for being one of the few Calm Minders to actually beat Ho-Oh, thanks to its Rock-type Judgment. Rock Arceus is also a usable Swords Dance sweeper with either Rock Slide or Stone Edge. Psychic Arceus is the only Arceus that is totally outclassed across the board. Generally, Ghost Arceus is better than Psychic Arceus in almost every way imaginable, and the many Psychic-types of Ubers also offer stiff competition for this Arceus in other regards.