Photosynthesis produces glucose (C6H12O6) which is required by organisms for respiration, it also gives off bi-products of O2 and water, the oxygen is released into the atmosp … here or recycled by the plant in its own respiration reactions. 1 person found this useful. Split and merge into it. Answer by Fordevinjones. Confidence votes 83. Photosynthesis produces glucose (C6H12O6) which is required by organisms for respiration, it also gives off bi-products of O2 and water, the oxygen is released into the atmosphere or recycled by the plant in its own respiration reactions.
Photosynthesis is the process by which plants, some bacteria, and some protistans use the energy from sunlight to produce sugar, which cellular respiration converts into ATP, the fuel used by all living things. 
Plants convert energy from sunlight into sugar in a process called photosynthesis. Photosynthesis uses energy from light to convert water and carbon dioxide molecules into glucose (sugar molecule) and oxygen (Figure 2).
Photosynthesis is a process used by plants and other organisms to convert light energy, normally from the Sun, into chemical energy that can be later released to fuel the organisms' activities. 
Photosynthesis produces glucose (C6H12O6) which is required by organisms for respiration, it also gives off bi-products of O2 and water, the oxygen is released into the atmosp … here or recycled by the plant in its own respiration reactions. 55 people found this useful. Photosynthesis produces glucose (C6H12O6) which is required by organisms for respiration, it also gives off bi-products of O2 and water, the oxygen is released into the atmosp … here or recycled by the plant in its own respiration reactions. 1 person
In summary, photosynthesis is a process in which light energy is converted to chemical energy and used to produce organic compounds. In plants, photosynthesis typically occurs within the chloroplasts located in plant leaves. Photosynthesis consists of two stages, the light reactions and the dark reactions. In the reduction stage, ATP and NADPH produced in the light reaction stage are used to convert the 6-carbon sugar into two molecules of a 3-carbon carbohydrate, glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate. Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate is used to make glucose and fructose.
In photosynthesis, solar energy is converted to chemical energy. The chemical energy is stored in the form of glucose (sugar). Carbon dioxide, water, and sunlight are used to produce glucose, oxygen, and water. In the reduction stage, ATP and NADPH produced in the light reaction stage are used to convert the 6-carbon sugar into two molecules of a 3-carbon carbohydrate, glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate. Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate is used to make glucose and fructose.