APPEAL, English crim. law. The accusation of a person, in a legal form, for a crime committed by him; or, it is the lawful declaration of another man's crime, before a competent judge, by one who sets his name to the declaration, and undertakes to prove it, upon the penalty which may ensue thereon. Vide Co. Timely resort by an unsuccessful party in a lawsuit or administrative proceeding to an appropriate superior court empowered to review a final decision on the ground that it was based upon an erroneous application of law.
The Employer Mandate. ObamaCare’s employer mandate is among the new laws most anti-growth provisions. When implemented, it will force most American businesses to offer government-approved health insurance to their employees or else pay new federal taxes for not doing so. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A contraceptive mandate is a state or federal regulation or law that requires health insurers, or employers that provide their employees with health insurance, to cover some contraceptive costs in their health insurance plans. 
Enter your email to get FREE small business insights. The keystone of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) is an unprecedented individual mandate tax requiring virtually all U.S. citizens and legal residents to either have health insurance or pay a tax for not doing so, beginning in 2014. As written, PPACA established an individual mandate to buy health insurance and a penalty for not doing so. This was the first time in American history that the federal government ordered the general population to purchase a commercial product.
1 2. 2  In a case on review from a state court, the mandate issues 25 days after entry of the judgment, unless the Court or a Justice shortens or extends the time, or unless the parties stipulate that it issue sooner. 1 1. 2  All process of this Court issues in the name of the President of the United States. 3  2. 4
Appeal. Timely resort by an unsuccessful party in a lawsuit or administrative proceeding to an appropriate superior court empowered to review a final decision on the ground that it was based upon an erroneous application of law.
3. There is no particular form or manner of entering into the contract of mandate, prescribed either by the common law, or by the civil law, in order to give it validity. It may be verbal or in writing; it may be express or implied it may be in solemn form or in any other manner. Story on Bailm. Sec. 160
The term mandate is also used in reference to an act by which one individual empowers another individual to conduct transactions for an individual in that person's name. In this sense, it is used synonymously with Power of Attorney. There is no particular form or manner of entering into the contract of mandate, prescribed either by the common law, or by the civil law, in order to give it validity. It may be verbal or in writing; it may be express or implied it may be in solemn form or in any other manner.
MANDATE. A judicial command or precept issued by a court or magitrate, directing the proper officer to enforce a judgment, sentence or decree.Mandatum or commission, contracts. Some define a mandate to be a bailment of goods without reward, to be carried from place to place, or to have some act performed about them. This seems more properly an enumeration of the various sorts of mandates than a definition of the contract.