SA writes: “ Years ago, I was invited to join a seminar on Pranic Healing. It is a method of healing that uses enegry(prana). Among the organizers of the said seminar was a religious nun, so I felt it was ok and somehow it is allowed in our Catholic faith. Unfortunately, there is only anecdotal evidence in support of the efficacy of pranic healing which is why it is considered to be pseudoscientific. But that doesn’t stop proponents from claiming this energy does exist and was proven by an Armenian electrician named Semyon Kirlian, the inventor of Kirlian photography.
It is the energy body that absorbs life energy and distributes it throughout the physical body, to the muscles, organs, glands, etc. The reason Pranic Healing ® works on the energy body is that physical ailments first appear as energetic disruptions in the aura before manifesting as problems in the physical body. It is pervasive; we are actually in an ocean of Life Energy. Based on this principle, a healer can draw in Pranic Energy or Life Energy from the surroundings.. Pranic Healing® requires no drugs, gadgets, not even physical contact with the subject.
PRANIC HEALING: Pranic Healing is an ancient science and healing art that utilizes prana or life energy/force to heal the whole physical and energetic body of the individual. The healer projects prana or “the breath of life” to the patient, seals it, and thereby provides the healing. •Ancient Science/Healing Art Utilizing the Life Force/Prana. • Karen is a second generation student of Master Choa Kuk Sui, the modern-day founder of Pranic Healing. • True healer and blessed messenger
Not only is pranic healing a true panacea, it also includes all the buzz-words any self-respecting charlatan wants to employ these days: 1  energy medicine. 2  ancient wisdom. 3  life force. 4  holism. 5  complexity. 6  mind-body. 7  chakras. Pranic healing is a holistic approach as it assumes a person in its complexity and does not separate the body and the mind. It was developed by Grand Master ChoaKok Sui who founded the World Pranic Healing Foundation.
Pranic Healing is an ancient science and art of healing that utilizes prana or life energy to heal the whole physical body. It also involves the manipulation of energy and bio plasmic matter of the patients body. Pranic Healing is not intended to replace orthodox medicine but rather to complement it. Functions of the Energy Body Absorbs, distributes and energizes the physical body with prana or ki so the physical body can function properlyIt acts as a mold or a pattern for the physical body. If the energy body is defective, the physical body is defective.
Pranic Healing is a form of ancient energy medicine, which utilizes the inherent energy Prana (life force or energy) to balance, and promote the body’s energy and its processes. Pranic healing is a holistic approach as it assumes a person in its complexity and does not separate the body and the mind. It was developed by Grand Master ChoaKok Sui who founded the World Pranic Healing Foundation.
Pranic Healing ® is a highly developed and tested system of energy medicine that utilizes prana to balance, harmonize and transform the body's energy processes. Prana is a Sanskrit word that means life-force. This invisible bio-energy or vital energy keeps the body alive and maintains a state of good health. In acupuncture, the Chinese refer to this subtle energy as Chi. 1  Read more. Pranic Healing-Short interview with Chandan. This is a short clip of the interview Chandan gave to Teri and Jeff Williams from 'The Bliss Network' in Michigan about Pranic Healing.
SA continues: “One of the practices of pranic healing is meditation, similar with what the Buddhists practice. Then I got confused, because when we held a Eucharistic celebration and the “teacher” did not make a sign of the Cross. And they also use crystals to heal. Unfortunately, there is only anecdotal evidence in support of the efficacy of pranic healing which is why it is considered to be pseudoscientific. But that doesn’t stop proponents from claiming this energy does exist and was proven by an Armenian electrician named Semyon Kirlian, the inventor of Kirlian photography.
Master Choa Kok Sui says Life Energy or prana is all around us. It is pervasive; we are actually in an ocean of Life Energy. Based on this principle, a healer can draw in Pranic Energy or Life Energy from the surroundings.. Pranic Healing® requires no drugs, gadgets, not even physical contact with the subject. Physical contact is not required because the practitioner is working on the bioplasmic or energy body and not directly on the physical body
First of all, pranic healing is based on the existence of a universal life force energy (also known as ki, qi, yin and yang, etc.) which is part of a pantheistic belief system which is not compatible with Christianity. Unfortunately, there is only anecdotal evidence in support of the efficacy of pranic healing which is why it is considered to be pseudoscientific. But that doesn’t stop proponents from claiming this energy does exist and was proven by an Armenian electrician named Semyon Kirlian, the inventor of Kirlian photography.