The Basics. Kinesiology is the study of human movement, function and performance and its effect on human health. It deals specifically with the mechanics of movement. Kinesiology can include the study of animal movement as well. On the other hand, exercise physiology focuses on the human response and adaptation to exercise. It deals with the underlying mechanisms responsible for the effects of exercise on human health. 
Kinesiology and Exercise Science Major. Description: A scientific program that focuses on the anatomy, physiology, biochemistry, and biophysics of human movement, and applications to exercise and therapeutic rehabilitation.
Education Information. Students can find degree programs in exercise science and kinesiology at the undergraduate and graduate level. Undergraduate degree options include both associate's and bachelor's degree programs, and students can take courses in injury prevention, nutrition, sports psychology or motor skills. These sciences are concerned with the human body and aspects of its movements. Exercise science focuses on the effects physical activity has on the human body. Common areas of study in kinesiology might include biomechanics, exercise physiology and motor control.
Inside Kinesiology and Exercise Science. Exercise science and kinesiology are two closely related fields of study, often used interchangeably with one another. These sciences are concerned with the human body and aspects of its movements. Exercise science focuses on the effects physical activity has on the human body. Common areas of study in kinesiology might include biomechanics, exercise physiology and motor control.
What is the Difference between Physical Therapy, Exercise Physiology, Kinesiology and Exercise Science. Exercise is no doubt, one of the key necessities of human life. Exercises are of various types and every type has some specific impact upon health of human being. 
excercise science is very similar, people usually use this as an undergrad for med schools exercise physiology is often used for things like cardiac rehab or other hospital related research areas. i was a kinesiology major (i go to michigan state) and now i am a nursing major. you should try looking at dietetics. Sorry, something has gone wrong. Best Answer: Kinesiology is like physics of the body...not something you want to do unless you're going on to physcial therapy or another highly academic route.
Kinesiology is the science of human movement, and it involves study of biology, exercise and athletics. Overview of Kinesiology. Kinesiology involves the study of human movement and brings together a number of different fields, including physiology, neuroscience, fitness and exercise science. Kinesiologists explore how people of different ages and fitness levels use their motor skills.
Answers. Best Answer: Kinesiology is like physics of the body...not something you want to do unless you're going on to physcial therapy or another highly academic route. Sorry, something has gone wrong. Best Answer: Kinesiology is like physics of the body...not something you want to do unless you're going on to physcial therapy or another highly academic route.