Parataxis is a literary technique, in writing or speaking, that favors short, simple sentences, with the use of coordinating rather than subordinating conjunctions (from Greek for 'act of placing side by side'; from para, 'beside' and tassein, 'to arrange'; contrasted to syntaxis or hypotaxis). Perhaps the best known use of parataxis is Julius Caesar's famous laconic phrase,  Veni, vidi, vici  or, I came, I saw, I conquered. Another example is Mr. Jingle's speech in Chapter 2 of The Pickwick Papers by Charles Dickens.
par·a·tax·is. n. The juxtaposition of clauses or phrases without the use of coordinating or subordinating conjunctions, as It was cold; the snows came. [Greek, a placing side by side, from. , to arrange side by side : 
Hypotaxis is the opposite of parataxis. In hypotaxis, the sentences, clauses and phrases are subordinated and linked. However, in parataxis the phrases, clauses and sentences are not subordinated or coordinated. Parataxis is sometimes used as asyndeton in which the phrases and clauses are coordinated without conjunctions.
Edward Morris wrote in 1901 that the term was introduced into linguistics by Friedrich Thiersch in his Greek Grammar (1831). The concept has expanded since then, and a number of definitions have emerged, often conflicting. Perhaps the best known use of parataxis is Julius Caesar's famous laconic phrase,  Veni, vidi, vici  or, I came, I saw, I conquered. Another example is Mr. Jingle's speech in Chapter 2 of The Pickwick Papers by Charles Dickens.
1 designating or using a style in which sentences or elements within sentences are set down successively with little or no indication of their relationship. also par·a·tac′ti·cal. 1  designating or using a style in which sentences or elements within sentences are set down successively with little or no indication of their relationship.
Definition of Parataxis. Parataxis is derived from a Greek word which means to place side by side. It can be defined as a rhetorical term in which phrases and clauses are placed one after another independently, without coordinating or subordinating them through the use of conjunctions. Parataxis is sometimes used as asyndeton in which the phrases and clauses are coordinated without
Compare periodic style, based on the periodic sentence, which is often left-modifying, i.e., uses parallel phrases/clauses or dependent clauses as modifiers at the start, and that thus isn’t grammatically complete until the final phrase or clause. It uses suspension, parallelism, balance and climax. Thus, hypotaxis signals the causal, logical, spatial or temporal relationship between words, clauses or sentences. Hypotactic style un-or enfolds — and is characteristic of elite élite or literary (speech [ acrolect Akros “gk at the”]). Top it gives the effect of experience — reworked or in the process of being. so
Today I want to talk about a specific style technique in writing that you can use to your advantage to create a certain tone. The two variations I’m talking about are parataxis and hypotaxis. We use subordinated clauses to indicate what the most important part of a sentence is (the most important part is in the independent clause), so when there is no subordinate part, it makes every part of the sentence seem equally important. The effect is flat, declarative, and often somewhat bleak-sounding.
(Contrast with hypotaxis .) Adjective: paratactic. Parataxis (also known as the additive style) is sometimes used as a synonym for asyndeton --that is, the coordination of phrases and clauses without coordinating conjunctions. 1 But parataxis can be a contrived, patterned, self-conscious style, one whose syntax can carry. . . an allegorical meaning of its own. 2  It is easy to write a laundry list, but not so easy to write like Hemingway without falling into parody. 3  Try it.. ( 4 Richard A. Lanham, Analyzing Prose, 2nd ed.