191 Followers. A. The normal range of values for AST (SGOT) is from 5 to 40 units per liter of serum (the liquid part of the blood). The normal range of values for ALT (SGPT) is from 7 to 56 units per liter of serum. This answer should not be considered medical advice... This answer should not be considered medical advice and should not take the place of a doctor’s visit.
Aspartate Aminotransferase (AST). Guide. An aspartate aminotransferase (AST) test measures the amount of this enzyme in the blood. AST is normally found in red blood cells, liver, heart, muscle tissue, pancreas, and kidneys. AST formerly was called serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (SGOT). Low levels of AST are normally found in the blood. When body tissue or an organ such as the heart or liver is diseased or damaged, additional AST is released into the bloodstream.
What Are Normal Levels of AST and ALT? The normal range of values for AST (SGOT) is from 5 to 40 units per liter of serum (the liquid part of the blood). The normal range of values for ALT (SGPT) is from 7 to 56 units per liter of serum.
Normal Levels. The normal range for SGOT in the blood for an adult is 6- 34 IU/L for women and 8/40 IU/L for men. Higher levels than this indicate that something is wrong somewhere, frequently in the liver. In addition to the liver, SGOT is also found in the heart, kidneys, skeletal muscles, and brain
Serum Glutamic Oxalocetic Transaminase(SGOT) or AST is an enzyme found primarily in the liver, heart, kidney, pancreas, and muscles. Its normal reference range is Normal Adult Range: 0 - 42 U/L Optimal Adult Reading: 21. Serum Glutamic Pyruvic Transaminase or ALT is an enzyme found primarily in the liver but also to a lesser degree, the heart and other tissues. It is useful in diagnosing liver function more so than SGOT levels. Normal Adult Range: 0 - 48 U/L Optimal Adult Reading: 24.
AST (SGOT). Hepatitis C. AST, or aspartate aminotransferase, is 1 of the 2 liver enzymes.. It is also known as serum glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase, or SGOT. AST is a protein made by liver cells. When liver cells are damaged, AST leaks out into the bloodstream and the level of AST in the blood becomes higher than normal. 
The normal levels of SGOT is in between 5 and 40 units per liter of serum and the normal levels of SGPT in between 7 and 56 units per liter of serum. SGOT and SGPT. Liver function tests are one of the blood tests that are most commonly performed to assess the function of the liver or injury caused to the liver. Liver damage is detected initially by performing a simple blood test that determines the level of various liver enzymes present in the blood.
The upper level tends to be lower in females. A. The serum glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase (SGOT), now referred to as aspartate aminotransferase (AST) and serum glutamic-pyruvic transaminase (SGPT), called alanine aminotransferase (ALT) are enzymes whose levels are tested to detect liver damage from any cause. They also rise in muscle and heart disease. 
It gets released when the liver is damaged, and so elevated levels of SGOT in the blood are a good indicator that the liver has suffered damage from one thing or another. In addition to the liver, SGOT is also found in the heart, kidneys, skeletal muscles, and brain. The normal range for SGOT in the blood for an adult is 6- 34 IU/L for women and 8/40 IU/L for men. Higher levels than this indicate that something is wrong somewhere, frequently in the liv