Fibre Channel over Ethernet (FCoE) is a computer network technology that encapsulates Fibre Channel frames over Ethernet networks. This allows Fibre Channel to use 10 Gigabit Ethernet networks (or higher speeds) while preserving the Fibre Channel protocol. The FCoE protocol specification replaces the FC0 and FC1 layers of the Fibre Channel stack with Ethernet. By retaining the native Fibre Channel constructs, FCoE was meant to integrate with existing Fibre Channel networks and management software.
So FIP provides an Ethernet MAC address used by FCoE to traverse the Ethernet network which contains the FCID required to be routed on the FC network. FIP also passes the query and query response from the FC name server. FCoE initialization Protocol (FIP) Deep Dive. May 15, 2010 by Joe Onisick (@jonisick) 5 Comments. FCoE initialization Protocol (FIP) Deep Dive, 4.5 out of 5 based on 28 ratings. In an attempt to clarify my future posts I will begin categorizing a bit.
The FIP (FCoE Initialization Protocol) is an integral part of FCoE. Its main goal is to discover and initialize FCoE capable entities connected to an Ethernet cloud. FIP uses a dedicated Ethertype of 0x8914. The FCoE protocol specification replaces the FC0 and FC1 layers of the Fibre Channel stack with Ethernet. By retaining the native Fibre Channel constructs, FCoE was meant to integrate with existing Fibre Channel networks and management software.
During the FCoE Initialization Protocol (FIP) exchange between the FCoE Forwarder (FCF) and the ENode, the ENode is assigned a Fabric Provided MAC Address (FPMA) as well as a regular Fibre Channel Identifier (FCID). The FCID can be verified through either of the below outputs. 
In other words, an FCoE passthrough switch is invisible to the Fibre Channel stack, but it acts as a concentrator of flows from multiple servers into the same port of a dual-stack switch, and thus it creates a shared-medium hanging off the dual-stack switch port. Given a physical Ethernet interface on an FCoE device (or, more accurately, what FC-BB-5 calls an FCoE controller behind that interface), the FCoE device must establish all the virtual links for which that physical interface is configured.
Rather than just providing an FCID, FIP will provide an FPMA which is a MAC address comprised of two parts: FC-MAP and FCID. 48 bit FCMAP (Mac Address). FIP. So FIP provides an Ethernet MAC address used by FCoE to traverse the Ethernet network which contains the FCID required to be routed on the FC network. FIP also passes the query and query response from the FC name server. 
FIP is the set of control plane functions that enable discovery of FCoE-capable devices across FCoE passthrough switches and establishment of legal combinations of virtual links. Both FCoE and FIP are described in T11 FC-BB-5. Given a physical Ethernet interface on an FCoE device (or, more accurately, what FC-BB-5 calls an FCoE controller behind that interface), the FCoE device must establish all the virtual links for which that physical interface is configured.
FIP snooping is used in multi-hop FCoE environments. FIP snooping is a frame inspection method that can be used by FIP snooping capable DCB devices to monitor FIP frames and apply policies based on the information in those frames. This allows for: FCoE initialization Protocol (FIP) Deep Dive. May 15, 2010 by Joe Onisick (@jonisick) 5 Comments. FCoE initialization Protocol (FIP) Deep Dive, 4.5 out of 5 based on 28 ratings. In an attempt to clarify my future posts I will begin categorizing a bit.
This simplicity is a strength of FCoE, but it limits end-to-end deployments to a class of devices that understand both the Ethernet and the Fibre Channel stacks (dual-stack switches called FCoE forwarders [FCFs] in T11 parlance). Given a physical Ethernet interface on an FCoE device (or, more accurately, what FC-BB-5 calls an FCoE controller behind that interface), the FCoE device must establish all the virtual links for which that physical interface is configured.
The FCoE Initialization Protocol (FIP) allows the switch to discover and initialize FCoE-capable entities that are connected to an Ethernet LAN. Two versions of FIP are supported by the Cisco Nexus 5000 Series switch: 