Search for a Grant. Technology grants for nonprofits, for-profits and small businesses, including RFPs, applications for foundation grants, corporate grants, state grants, city grants for use of technology in the classroom curriculum, technology grants to improve health and medical information. 479 Technology Grants. Grants to USA, Canada and International nonprofits, government agencies, and for-profit companies involved in biotechnology and pharmaceutical research, for research on new treatments for Parkinson's disease.
Grants of up to $30,000 to USA nonprofits, State, local, and tribal agencies, and IHEs for research into the significance of the arts in the USA. On September 9 a webinar will be held. October 10 is the strongly recommended date for submitting form ... Grants to USA, Canada and International nonprofits, government agencies, and for-profit companies involved in biotechnology and pharmaceutical research, for research on new treatments for Parkinson's disease.
COPS Technology Grants. COPS Technology grants provide funding for the continued development of technologies and automated systems that help Tribal, state, and local law enforcement agencies prevent, respond to, and investigate crime. The COPS Office has awarded approximately $827 million in COPS Technology grants to more than 1,400 agencies to date. Most recently, 445 technology projects named in the 2006 Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act received approximately $127 million in COPS Technology grant funding.
The Grant Wrangler site enables you to search for education technology grants for K-12 schools or to subscribe to their bi-weekly newsletter featuring the latest grants and awards. You can put technology or a subject area in as a keyword and narrow your search. In fact, during many of our trainings, money most often comes up as one of the biggest obstacles to implementing technology. Finding education technology grants and funding sources seems to be a game of hunt and find, and most classroom teachers just don't have the luxury of extra time to do this.
Note: Some listings are filed by surname. Acclinet Technology Grant. http://www.acclinet.com/tech_grant.asp. Acclinet regularly presents qualifying college students, teachers and nonprofit organizations with free industry-best Sun server and workstation equipment they need to do what they do best. Computer Technology Grants from the State of Michigan, try the Michigan Electronic Gants Administration and Management System Portal (EGrAMS) .
Grants to Alberta IHEs, nonprofits, and businesses for research data infrastructure projects that enable Canadian institutions and researchers to conducting computationally and data intensive research. Grants to USA, Canada and International nonprofits, government agencies, and for-profit companies involved in biotechnology and pharmaceutical research, for research on new treatments for Parkinson's disease.
About Grants.gov. Grants.gov is your place to FIND and APPLY for federal grants. The United States Department of Health and Human Services is proud to be the managing partner for Grants.gov. Learn more about Grants.gov. 
Classroom Technology Grants. There are tons of grants available for schools wishing to incorporate modern technology into their classrooms. It is very costly for school districts to fund high tech equipment out of their budgets. The Cisco Foundation provides grant money to areas that do not have the funds to include technology in their curriculum. They focus on the critical need to allow students access to the internet so they will have web communication skills to vault them into becoming computer literate members of society.
Funding classroom technology is always a concern when discussing implementation of clickers, whiteboards and tablets, document cameras, and other technologies in the classroom. In fact, during many of our trainings, money most often comes up as one of the biggest obstacles to implementing technology. Finding education technology grants and funding sources seems to be a game of hunt and find, and most classroom teachers just don't have the luxury of extra time to do this.