floating kidney nephroptosis. fused kidney a single anomalous organ developed as a result of fusion of the renal anlagen. horseshoe kidney an anomaly in which the right and left kidneys are linked at one end by a band of tissue as a result of fusion of the poles of the renal anlagen. hypermobile kidney nephroptosis. lump kidney cake kidney. Physiology. In an average adult each kidney is about 10 cm long, 5 cm wide, and 2.5 cm thick, and weighs 120 to 175 g. In this small area the kidney contains over a million microscopic filtering units, the nephrons.
Crossed fused renal ectopia essentially refers to an anomaly where the kidneys are fused and located on the same side of the midline. 
An ectopic kidney may cross over and become fused with the other kidney. Some kidneys climb toward the rib cage, but one may cross over so that both kidneys are on the same side of the body. When a crossover occurs, the two kidneys may grow together and become fused. An ectopic kidney is a birth defect in which a kidney is located in an abnormal position. In most cases, people with an ectopic kidney have no complaints. In other cases, the ectopic kidney may create urinary problems, such as urine blockage, infection, or urinary stones
Abstract. Crossed fused renal ectopia is a rare congenital anomaly of the urinary system where one kidney crosses over to opposite side and the parenchyma of the two kidneys fuse. Herein, we present an atypical CFRE case whose renal anatomy does not exactly match any of the already defined CFRE types. Introduction. Crossed fused renal ectopia (CFRE) is a markedly rare congenital malformation of the urinary system where one of the kidneys crosses the midline to become located on the opposite side of its ureter entrance to the bladder and the parenchymas of the two kidneys fuse.
Horseshoe kidney, also known as ren arcuatus (in Latin), renal fusion or super kidney, is a congenital disorder affecting about 1 in 500 people, more common in men. In this disorder, the patient's kidneys fuse together to form a horseshoe-shape during development in the womb. The fused part is the isthmus of the horseshoe kidney. Fusion abnormalities of the kidney can be categorized into two groups: horseshoe kidney and crossed fused ectopia. The 'horseshoe kidney' is the most common renal fusion anomaly
Overview. Congenital anomalies of the kidneys include a group of so-called fusion anomalies, in which both kidneys are fused together in early embryonic life. Fusion anomalies of the kidneys can generally be placed into 2 categories: (1) horseshoe kidney and its variants and (2) crossed fused ectopia. The term horseshoe kidney refers to the appearance of the fused kidney, which results from fusion at one pole (see some examples in the images below). In more than 90% of cases, fusion occurs along the lower pole.
It occurs during fetal development as the kidneys move into their normal position. With horseshoe kidney, however, as the kidneys of the fetus rise from the pelvic area, they fuse together at the lower end or base. By fusing, they form a U shape, which gives it the name horseshoe.. It is believed that this condition exists more frequently in males. Horseshoe Kidney (Renal Fusion). Most people are born with two kidneys, which are located in the back of the abdominal cavity on either side of the body covered by the ribs. But factors can occasionally interfere with the development of the kidneys as is the case for people with renal fusion abnormalities.
Horseshoe kidney is generally differentiated from crossed fused ectopia, in which both fused kidneys lie on one side of the spine, and the ureter of the crossed kidney crosses the midline to enter the bladder. Plain radiograph of the abdomen shows calcific opacities in the region of left lower renal pole. The term horseshoe kidney refers to the appearance of the fused kidney, which results from fusion at one pole (see some examples in the images below). In more than 90% of cases, fusion occurs along the lower pole.