Urea: Chemical compound of carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen produced as waste by cells that break down protein. Ureter: Tube that carries urine from a kidney to the urinary bladder. Urethra: Duct leading from the urinary bladder to outside the body through which urine is eliminated.
The waste removal system, or excretory system, is actually shared by several body systems. The main contributor to excretion is the gastrointestinal tract, GI tract. It is made mainly of epithelial tissue with a mucosal lining and it is in the shape of a tube.
The excretory system is a system of organs that removes waste products from the body. When cells in the body break down proteins (large molecules that are essential to the structure and functioning of all living cells), they produce wastes such as urea (a chemical compound of carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen).
The respiratory system provides oxygen to the body’s cells while removing carbon dioxide, a waste product that can be lethal if allowed to accumulate. There are 3 major parts of the respiratory system: the airway, the lungs, and the muscles of respiration.
There are two systems that remove wastes from the body. The lower digestive tract (the colon) removes solid wastes and sodium whiles it retains water. The urinary system remov … es waste from the blood by way of the kidneys.
Although the student fails to name any parts of a cell involved in the removal of metabolic waste, two body systems (circulatory and excretory) are identified. A general description of how harmful waste products are removed (perspiration, and breathing) is also provided.
Other systems and organs in the body also play a part in excretion. The respiratory system eliminates water vapor and carbon dioxide through exhalation (the process of breathing out). The digestive system removes feces, the solid undigested wastes of digestion, by a process called defecation or elimination.
Describe how harmful waste products are removed from the body. In your response, be sure to. 1  identify the parts of a cell that are involved in waste removal. 2  identify the body systems involved in the removal of waste products. 3  explain how the body systems work together to remove waste