The effect of naloxone hydrochloride is due to the interaction with opioids and opioid agonists. When administered to subjects dependent on opioids, in some subjects the administration of naloxone hydrochloride can cause pronounced withdrawal symptoms. Naloxone hydrochloride is rapidly metabolised in the liver, mainly by conjugation with glucuronic acid, and excreted in urine. Elimination. Naloxone hydrochloride has a short plasma half-life of approximately 1-1.5 hours after parenteral administration. The plasma half-life for neonates is approximately 3 hours.
For the initial reversal of respiratory depression, NARCAN (naloxone) should be injected in increments of 0.005 mg to 0.01 mg intravenously at two-to three-minute intervals to the desired degree of reversal. If an I.V. route of administration is not available, NARCAN (naloxone) may be administered I.M. or S.C. in divided doses. If necessary, NARCAN (naloxone) can be diluted with sterile water for injection. Postoperative Opioid Depression: Follow the recommendations and cautions under Adult Postoperative Depression.
INDICATIONS. NARCAN (naloxone) is indicated for the complete or partial reversal of opioid depression, including respiratory depression, induced by natural and synthetic opioids, including propoxyphene, methadone and certain mixed agonist-antagonist analgesics: nalbuphine, pentazocine, butorphanol, and cyclazocine. If an I.V. route of administration is not available, NARCAN (naloxone) may be administered I.M. or S.C. in divided doses. If necessary, NARCAN (naloxone) can be diluted with sterile water for injection. Postoperative Opioid Depression: Follow the recommendations and cautions under Adult Postoperative Depression.
Naloxone, also known as Narcan among other names, is a medication used to reverse the effects of opioids especially in overdose. Naloxone may be combined within the same pill as an opioid to decrease the risk of misuse. When given intravenously it works within two minutes and when injected into a muscle it works within five minutes. The medication may also be used in the nose. The effects of naloxone last about half an hour to an hour. Multiple doses may be required as the duration of action of most opioids is greater than that of naloxone. Administration to opioid-dependent individuals may cause symptoms of opioid withdrawal including agitation, nausea, vomiting, a fast heart rate and sweating.
naloxone hydrochloride. [nal′əksōn]. an opioid antagonist. indications It is prescribed for reversal of respiratory depression and other opioid effects in patients receiving opioid analgesics and in patients who have abused heroin, morphine, or other synthetic opioids. contraindication Known hypersensitivity to this drug prohibits its use.
Naloxone hydrochloride can be used in conjunction with rescue breathing and chest compressions to save the life of someone overdosing on opioids. Side effects of naloxone hydrochloride may include sweating. Signs of an opiate overdose may include extreme sedation. Side effects of Naloxone HCL may include decreased blood pressure. Naloxone hydrochloride is usually administered to counteract an overdose of heroin or morphine. Naloxone hydrochloride is often administered by an intravenous injection.
Following the use of opioids during surgery, excessive dosage of naloxone hydrochloride should be avoided, because it may cause excitement, increase in blood pressure and clinically important, reversal of analgesia. A reversal of opioid effects achieved too rapidly may induce nausea, vomiting, sweating or tachycardia. Naloxone hydrochloride is rapidly metabolised in the liver, mainly by conjugation with glucuronic acid, and excreted in urine. Elimination. Naloxone hydrochloride has a short plasma half-life of approximately 1-1.5 hours after parenteral administration. The plasma half-life for neonates is approximately 3 hours.
Last reviewed on RxList 4/29/2015. Narcan (naloxone) is an opioid antagonist and is used for the complete or partial reversal of opioid overdose, including respiratory depression. It is also used for diagnosis of suspected or known acute opioid overdose and also for blood pressure support in septic shock. Narcan is available as a generic termed naloxone. Common side effects of Narcan are flushing, dizziness, tiredness, weakness, nervousness, restlessness, irritability, body aches, diarrhea, stomach pain, nausea, fever, chills, goosebumps, sneezing, shortness of breath, or runny nose. NARCAN (naloxone) is an opioid antagonist. Physical dependence associated with the use of NARCAN (naloxone) has not been reported. Tolerance to the opioid antagonist effect of NARCAN (naloxone) is not known to occur.
TARGIN tablets contain two different medicines called oxycodone hydrochloride and naloxone hydrochloride anhydrous. Oxycodone belongs to a group of medicines called opioid analgesics. Naloxone is a medicine which, when taken orally, can block some of the effects of opioids in the gut, such as constipation. 