An adjective phrase is a group of words that describe a noun or pronoun in a sentence. The adjective phrase can be placed before, or after, the noun or pronoun in the sentence. 
Prepositional Phrases can function in three ways in a sentence: as a noun, as an adjective, or as an adverb. When a prepositional phrase is functioning as an adjective phrase, it is giving us additional information about a noun or pronoun in the sentence. It is telling us which one, what kind, or how many. To determine if a prepositional phrase is an adjective phrase : 1) Find the object of the preposition (the noun or pronoun that follows the preposition). 2) Ask yourself which other word in the sentence is related to this noun or pronoun by the preposition
An adjective phrase is a group of words in a sentence that acts like an adjective. Example: For example, you could say, Lisa is an experienced teacher.. In this sentence the word experienced is an adjective. 
If the other word is a noun or pronoun, then the prepositional phrase is an adjective phrase. Examples of The Adjective Phrase: telling us the relationship between the class and the announcement. Announcement is a noun, so this is an. . When a prepositional phrase is functioning as an adjective phrase, it is giving us additional information about a noun or pronoun in the sentence. It is telling us which one, what kind, or how many. To determine if a prepositional phrase is an adjective phrase :
An adjective phrase can be an attributive adjective or a predicative adjective. Attributive Adjective. An attributive adjective is one that sits inside the noun phrase of the noun it modifies. Look at these two examples: When an adjective appears before its noun, it is very likely to be an attributive adjective. An adjective phrase (or adjectival phrase) is a phrase that tells us something about the noun it is modifying. The head (principal) word in an adjective phrase will be an adjective. In the examples below, the adjective phrase is shaded and the head word (i.e., the adjective) is in bold:
Search. An adjective phrase (or adjectival phrase) is a phrase that tells us something about the noun it is modifying. The head (principal) word in an adjective phrase will be an adjective. In the examples below, the adjective phrase is shaded and the head word (i.e., the adjective) is in bold: