When stretching up from 20g, you will want your plugs and taper to be 18g. Ensure that you buy jewelry made of a quality material, such as implant-grade titanium or glass. Surgical steel is only acceptable for the taper, since it should not be in your body long enough to take a picture.
Healing time is different depending on the part of your body that you get pierced. Some parts are more likely to get infected or have problems. Piercings on your ear lobes usually take about 6-8 weeks to heal. However, piercings on the side of your ear (cartilage) can take anywhere from 4 months to 1 year to heal.
How long should a person wait between piercings? I had my nose and helix done by you last week (excellent work, by the way). I'm looking into getting my earlobes redone, as they've closed up, and my tragus done. I was thinking of getting them done in October, which would be three months after I had the other 2 done.
A new body piercing may be red and tender for a few weeks. The healing time for a body piercing can vary depending on which part of your body is pierced and how well you look after it. As a general guide, healing times for the most common body piercings can be: 1  ear lobe – six to eight weeks. 2  top of the ear
1 You are going to feel slight pain because you are stretching your ear lobe but if your ear starts to bleed, stop; this could result in a blowout if you continue because it means your ear isn't ready. 2  Wait for 2 or 3 weeks and try again.
7. Use pre-packaged 70% isopropyl alcohol swabs to clean your ear. You must do this so that your ear is completely wiped clean of any bacteria that may have gotten into your piercing. Wait until the ear is dry to pierce it. 1  You can also use hydrogen peroxide or rubbing alcohol to sterilize your ear.
Tapers are a great way to begin your ear stretching journey. A taper is a straight piece either steel or acrylic that is small on one side and larger on the other. When you insert a taper it will increase the size of your piercing.
Ear lobe stretching is quite a bit easier than stretching cartilage, but it still takes patience. You should give yourself at least one-and-a-half times as long as it took for your ear to heal initially in between full-size stretches (e.g. 12 gauge to 10 gauge).