In the context of foods, chemical contaminants can be very broadly defined as any chemical not intentionally added to food but present for one of many possible reasons: Environmental Contamination. 1  Certain chemicals are manufactured for industrial use and because they are very stable, they do not break down easily. They undertake regular surveillance to monitor the levels of contaminants in foods and estimate the exposure of Canadians to these contaminants. Health Canada scientists also conduct research and evaluate scientific data in order to better understand the effects that chemicals can have on the human body.
Chemical contaminants present in foods are often unaffected by thermal processing (unlike most microbiological agents). Chemical contaminants can be classified according to the source of contamination and the mechanism by which they enter the food product. Environmental contaminants are chemicals that are present in the environment in which the food is grown, harvested, transported, stored, packaged, processed, and consumed. The physical contact of the food with its environment results in its contamination. Possible sources of contamination include:
Food processing may also be a source of cross-contamination, such as contamination of nonallergenic foods with known food allergens. Migrants from Packaging Materials. Direct contact of foods with packaging materials can result in chemical contamination caused by migration of certain substances into foods. Precursors of these contaminants can occur naturally in the food matrix, such as in the case of acrylamide being formed during the Maillard reaction between the amino acid asparagine and a reducing sugar (especially in potato-and cereal-based, heat-treated products).
Chemical contamination. Chemical contaminants should not be in the food in the first place, but can get there while the food is being processed. Examples are: 1  cleaning chemicals. 2  pesticides and pest bait. 3  agricultural chemicals. 4  industrial processing chemicals
Health Canada scientists are responsible for the assessment of risks to human health from exposure to food-borne chemical contaminants. They undertake regular surveillance to monitor the levels of contaminants in foods and estimate the exposure of Canadians to these contaminants. Health Canada scientists also conduct research and evaluate scientific data in order to better understand the effects that chemicals can have on the human body.
1 Undesirable chemicals can be formed in certain foods during processing as a result of reactions between compounds that are natural components of the food. 2  In some cases an undesirable chemical may be formed as a result of a food additive being intentionally added to food and reacting with another compound in the food. They undertake regular surveillance to monitor the levels of contaminants in foods and estimate the exposure of Canadians to these contaminants. Health Canada scientists also conduct research and evaluate scientific data in order to better understand the effects that chemicals can have on the human body.
It can happen in two ways. 1. Raw foods can be contaminated by bacteria, which are found in the natural environment. This contamination will, therefore, be present when the food is delivered to the food premises. Raw vegetables, for example, may have soil still attached and this will contain bacteria. 2. 
Food contamination refers to the presence in food of harmful chemicals and microorganisms which can cause consumer illness. Environmental contaminants are chemicals that are present in the environment in which the food is grown, harvested, transported, stored, packaged, processed, and consumed. The physical contact of the food with its environment results in its contamination. Possible sources of contamination include:
Chemical contamination occurs when food comes into contact with chemicals – and can cause ‘chemical food poisoning’. Some of the most common causes of chemical contamination are cleaning products, or unwashed fruits and vegetables. Other sources may include food containers made from non-safe plastics, pest control products or some chemicals used in food processing.
Another type of contamination is soil contamination. This can occur as discussed above with ground water contamination but also can occur when streams or other bodies of water are contaminated with heavy metals or chemicals. When areas flood, these heavy metals and chemicals are deposited on an individual's property and thus contaminate the soil. 