The main difference between viruses and bacteria is that viruses are packets of genetic material and cannot survive on their own, while bacteria are single-celled organisms th … at can. Bacteria take in nutrients, expel waste, grow, and reproduce (multiply). One major difference between viruses and bacteria is the method of reproduction. Bacterium is a completely self-contained and self-reproducing unit. When the time is right, bacterium will split its DNA and RNA genetic material in two.
Because viruses, bacteria, and fungi cause many well-known diseases, it is common to confuse them, but they are as different as a mouse and an elephant. A look at the size, structure, reproduction, hosts, and diseases caused by each will shed some light on the important differences between these germs. Animals, plants, fungi, and bacteria are all subject to viral infection. But viruses tend to be somewhat particular about what type of cells they infect. Plant viruses are not equipped to infect animal cells, for example, though a certain plant virus could infect a number of related plants.
Fungi (plural for fungus) are different from both viruses and bacteria in many ways. They are larger, plant-like organisms that lack chlorophyll (the substance that makes plants green and converts sunlight into energy). Animals, plants, fungi, and bacteria are all subject to viral infection. But viruses tend to be somewhat particular about what type of cells they infect. Plant viruses are not equipped to infect animal cells, for example, though a certain plant virus could infect a number of related plants.
The difference between a virus and a bacteria is that T-cells attack one of the two and B-cells attack the other. This is a mildly simple portion of a complex answer that has … to do with the variable functions of the different cells. One major difference between viruses and bacteria is the method of reproduction. Bacterium is a completely self-contained and self-reproducing unit. When the time is right, bacterium will split its DNA and RNA genetic material in two.
﻿The difference between bacteria, viruses, fungi and parasites are: Bacteria are single celled organisms that can rapidly multiple themselves every 10 minutes up to 10 times each bacterial cell, but they do not live or reproduce in a human cell. 
Tweet. Key Difference: Bacteria are single celled and prokaryotic organisms. They replicate in an asexual manner. They can be harmful as well as beneficial; it depends upon the type of Bacteria. On the other hand, viruses are non living pathogens and are acellular. Viruses also need host cells to reproduce. Most of the Viruses do not serve any ... Mostly are harmful. Many fungi are beneficial. Antibiotics. Kill bacteria. Cannot kill viruses. Do not effect. Diseases Caused. Cholera, tuberculosis, lyme disease, pertussus, salmonella, staph infections, strep throat, leprosy, tetanus, diptheria, E.coli, flesh eating (necrotizing fascitis) rickets, etc.
Some of the differences are listed below:-. Bacteria. Virus. Fungi. Structure. Most bacteria consist of a ring of DNA surrounded by a cellular machinery, contained within a fatty membrane. They consist of little more than a small piece of genetic material surrounded by a thin protein coating. Mostly are harmful. Many fungi are beneficial. Antibiotics. Kill bacteria. Cannot kill viruses. Do not effect. Diseases Caused. Cholera, tuberculosis, lyme disease, pertussus, salmonella, staph infections, strep throat, leprosy, tetanus, diptheria, E.coli, flesh eating (necrotizing fascitis) rickets, etc.
Viruses, bacteria, protists & fungi (just the basics!)- parasites postponed until we discuss them in class.I. Viruses:- A virus is a short piece of DNA or RNA, sometimes with some associated enzymes. 
Identify the differences between bacteria viruses, Fungi and Parasites. Viruses are pieces of nucleic acid (DNA or RNA) wrapped in a thin coat of protein that replicate only within the cells of living hosts. Bacteria are one-cell microorganisms with a simple cellular organization whose nucleus lacks a membrane. There are many different varieties of fungi, and we eat quite a few of them. Mushrooms are fungi, as is the mold that forms the blue or green veins in some types of cheese. And yeast, another type of fungi, is a necessary ingredient to make most types of bread. Identify Common illnesses and infections caused by bacteria viruses, Fungi and Parasites. Fungus: Athlete's foot,