More About African Name: Amari. I think the name Amari is a beautiful name my 3 year old son name is Amari, It also meant beauty. I named my daughter Amari (4yrs now) and I read it meant Eternal Life/Immortal. According to American origin it means a miracle from god or special gift. List of African baby names, African baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & African names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of African baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child.
The name Amari has the following meaning: It means One who will be forever beautiful in Greek. This name can be given to both baby boys and girls. It is a unisex name. Origins. The name Amari is very likely a(n) Greek variant of the name Amara. See other suggested Greek baby names. As a baby girl name, Amari is currently a popular baby name, with a recent overall USA popularity ranking of 458 out of 1000 (source: 2000s U.S. Census) . In 2009, the name Amari fell in popularity and moved down the USA Top 1000 charts in Year 2009, by 96 places.
Meaning of Amari. American name. In American, the name Amari means-a miracle from god.The name Amari originated as an American name. The name Amari is most often used as a girl name or female name. American Name Meaning-a miracle from god. Origin-America
Amari Name Meaning. The meaning of Amari is “Immortal”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.
[ 3 syll. a-ma-ri, am-ari ] The baby boy name Amari is sometimes used as a girl name. It is pronounced as aa-M AA-R-iy- †. Amari is used chiefly in the English language, and it is derived from Sanskrit and African-Yoruban origins. African-Yoruban origin: It is derived literally from the word 'amari' which means strength. In addition, Amari is a variant of the name Amar (Arabic, English, and Indian). Amarea, Amaree, Amarey, Amarie, Amarri, and Amary are variants of Amari. Amari is fairly popular as a baby name for boys, and it is also viewed as fairly trendy.
Amari is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 5 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced A-ma-ri. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 524 in baby name popularity for girls with 585 occurrences. It ranked 340 in popular baby names for boys with 970 occurrences. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Amari in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Amari in Nautical Flags page.
[ 3 syll. a-ma-ri, am-ari ] The baby girl name Amari is also used as a boy name, and more often so. It is pronounced aa-M AA-R-iy- †. Amari is of Old Greek and African-Yoruban origin. It is used mainly in English. African-Yoruban origin: It is derived literally from the word amari with the meaning 'strength'. In addition, Amari is a form of the English Amara. Forms of Amari include the names Amare, Amaree, Amarie, and Amarri. Amari is rather popular as a baby girl name
Hebrew Meaning: The name Amaris is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Amaris is: Given by God. American Meaning: The name Amaris is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Amaris is: Given by God. Spanish Meaning: The name Amaris is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Amaris is: Child of the moon.
What does Amari mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Amari is of Greek origin. The meaning of Amari is eternally lovely. It is also of African origin, where its meaning is strong. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Amari in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Amari in Nautical Flags page.