While white lilies symbolize chastity and virtue – and were the symbol of the Virgin Mary’s purity and her role of Queen of the Angels – as other varieties became popular, they brought with them additional meanings and symbolism as well. Symbolizing humility and devotion, lilies are the 30th anniversary flower-while lilies of the valley are the 2nd wedding anniversary flower. As the flowers most often associated with funerals, lilies symbolize that the soul of the departed has received restored innocence after death.
The Biblical baby name Lily is Latin/ Old English in origin and its meaning is a flowering plant. The Hebrew word for Lily is Shoshan and the Greek word is krinon. 
Origin of the name Lily: Taken from the name of the plant having delicate, trumpet-shaped flowers regarded as a symbol of purity and perfection. The word is derived from the Middle English lilie, which is from the Old English and Latin lilium (lily). Alternatively, Lily is used as a pet form of both Lilian (lily) and Lilith (of the night). 
Lily is a very popular first name for women (#652 out of 4276, Top 15%) and also a very popular surname for all people (#71372 out of 150436, Top 47%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Lily for girls. Lily reached its apex rank of #15 in the U.S. in 2011, and is at #27 currently. Shown below is a comparison of the popularity of the girl name Lily and corresponding names. Prominent varying forms of Lily (#27 in 2014) are Elizabeth (#14 in 2014) , Lillian (#25) , Liliana (#119) , Lilly (#124) , Lila (#183) , Lilian (#506) , Lillie (#512) , Rosa (#608) , Lilia (#925) , Lilla and Lilyan.
Peruvian lilies, or alstroemeria, represent friendship and devotion, white stargazer lilies express sympathy and pink stargazer lilies represent wealth and prosperity. Symbolizing humility and devotion, lilies are the 30th anniversary flower-while lilies of the valley are the 2nd wedding anniversary flower. As the flowers most often associated with funerals, lilies symbolize that the soul of the departed has received restored innocence after death.
Greek Meaning: The name Lily is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Lily is: Lily. Hebrew Meaning: The name Lily is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Lily is: Lily. American Meaning: The name Lily is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Lily is: Lily. Latin Meaning: The name Lily is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Lily is: Lily (after the flower). Pure. English Meaning: The name Lily is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Lily is: Lily flower.
Look up Lily in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Lily is a feminine given name directly derived from lily, the flower. The popularity of the name increased steadily in most English-speaking countries during the late 20th century. In the United States, Lily became one of the top-100 names for newborn girls in 2002 and reached a rank of 18 by 2009. 
Lily Meaning and Symbolism. Symbolic Lily Meaning. Greek lore associates lily meaning with birth and it is a symbol for motherhood because the flower was said to be created from the breast milk of Hera. As the story goes, Zeus wanted Hercules (his son born from an extra-marital affair) to become a god. In the symbolic language of the Tarot, the lily also holds symbolism of purity, innocence and fertility. Additionally, the lily symbolizes vulnerability, and the freedom to be ourselves, as well as allowing others to be as they are too. The lily is a symbolic flower of health and provision.