About our organisation. Shared Services SA delivers corporate and business services for South Australian Government departments in the areas of Payroll, Accounts Payable, Accounts Receivable and Financial Services so that departments can focus on their core business operations. 
Draft Report on Cloud Service Provider Certification Requirements for the Australian Government | 3 1. Introduction By its very global nature, cloud services, particularly those offered through the public cloud, offer numerous potential benefits in terms of cost benefits, efficiency and flexibility. 1. In the long term, the scope of the draft Aus tralian Government Commercial Service Provider Assurance Framework (the framework) be extended to encompass all cloud and cloud-like services (Option 4) . The framework should meet the requirements outlined in Attachment 3.
Federal Shared Services Implementation Guide 30 Shared Service Provider A Shared Service Provider (SSP) is a Federal organization that provisions one or more business capabilities or services from a shared platform to one or more Customer/Partner Agencies. Federal Shared Services Implementation Guide 18 to a shared service is made, then formalize a project team and proceed with developing a project plan and negotiating the Service Level Agreement (SLA) and/or Interagency Agreement (IAA).
Administrative Resource Center (ARC) - ARC is part of Treasury's Bureau of the Fiscal Service and provides a full range of administrative services for various federal agencies. ARC has been designated as a Federal Shared Service Provider for financial management. ECM is collectively a strategy, an architectural framework and a set of tools and technologies that help customers improve the management of unstructured content. ECM, as a product suite within Enterprise Business Solutions, is governed by the ECM Customer Advisory Board (CAB).
In 2010, a shared services feasibility study (referred to in Australian Government, 2011) considered potential shared services delivery models for the three central Commonwealth agencies (Prime Minister and Cabinet, Treasury, and Finance and Deregulation) against the existing delivery approach. A 2004 report by the NSW Auditor-General found that benefits realised in NSW from shared services were significantly below expectations. At June 2003 general government agencies had achieved savings of $13.6 million, or 5 per cent, of projected accumulated savings of $297 million to be achieved by 2006.
jobactive-Australia’s new employment services. jobactive is the Australian Government’s new employment services system starting from 1 July 2015 to help Australians into work and help employers find the right staff for their business. Find out more about jobactive or find a local jobactive provider
It is becoming increasingly obvious therefore that the classical approach to shared services and cloud offerings are on a collision course. In fact, both government centralised and shared-service providers are striving to deliver scalable and elastic services that are provided on a consumption basis. Government agencies often act as shared service providers to other agencies. We are now also seeing some of these providers – acting as a broker — integrating the services of an external cloud provider into their own offering.
The South Australian Government adopted a shared services initiative in 2006, with a principal agency in the Department of Treasury and Finance Portfolio to provide finance, HR, ICT and procurement services to government agencies. A 2004 report by the NSW Auditor-General found that benefits realised in NSW from shared services were significantly below expectations. At June 2003 general government agencies had achieved savings of $13.6 million, or 5 per cent, of projected accumulated savings of $297 million to be achieved by 2006.
COVER SHEET This is the author-version of article published as: Walsh, Peter and McGregor-Lowndes, Myles and Newton, Cameron (2006) Shared Services: Lessons from the Public and Private Sectors for the Nonprofit Sector, CPNS Working Paper No 34. Public Sector Approaches The private sector approach has been largely emulated by the public sector. For example, Queensland Treasury (2002) defines shared services as involving ‘multiple agencies sharing common corporate services through a dedicated shared service provider’.