How long should a mother breastfeed? The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommends that breastfeeding continue for at least 12 months, and thereafter for as long as mother and baby desire. The World Health Organization recommends continued breastfeeding up to 2 years of age or beyond. Healthy breastfed infants typically put on weight more slowly than formula fed infants in the first year of life. 4-5 Formula fed infants gain weight more rapidly after about 3 months of age.
Let your baby set his or her own schedule. Many newborns breastfeed for 10–15 minutes on each breast, but some may feed for longer periods. A baby who wants to breastfeed for a long time—such as 30 minutes on each side—may be having trouble getting enough milk or may be just taking his or her time to feed. 
Once breastfeeding is established, exclusively breastfed babies who are 1 to 6 months old take in between 19 and 30 ounces of breastmilk each day. If you breastfeed your baby eight times a day, your baby will get around 3 ounces per feeding. But every baby is different. The Newborn Tummy. At birth, the baby's stomach can comfortably digest what would fit in a hazelnut (about 1 to 2 teaspoons). Then, breastfeed your baby at least eight to 12 times every 24 hours so that you will make plenty of milk. This means that in the first few days after birth, your baby will likely need to breastfeed about every one to two hours during the day and a few times at night. Healthy babies develop their own feeding patterns.
1 Cow's milk does not have the vitamins babies need. 2  There is generally no need to give your breastfed baby water, juice or other foods in the first 6 months. 3  Breastfeeding should ideally continue for at least 12 months, and as long after that as both mother and baby want to keep on nursing. 
IF YOU BREASTFEED YOUR BABY FOR 6 MONTHS without adding any other food or drink, you will help ensure good health throughout your baby's first year of life, reduce your little one's risk of ear infections and childhood cancers, and reduce your own risk of breast cancer. IF YOU BREASTFEED YOUR BABY FOR 4–6 WEEKS, you will have eased him through the most critical part of his infancy. Newborns who are not breastfed are much more likely to get sick or be hospitalised, and have many more digestive problems than breastfed babies.
Most women set goals for breastfeeding of between three months and a year. Though in many parts of the world, it’s usual to breastfeed for two years or even longer. How long you keep breastfeeding for is your decision. It will depend on how you feel emotionally, as well as your personal circumstances. Whatever you decide, try to give your baby nothing but breastmilk until she’s six months old (exclusive breastfeeding).
IF YOU BREASTFEED YOUR BABY FOR 9 MONTHS, you will have seen him through the fastest and most important brain and body development of his life on the food that was designed for him — your milk. Breastfeeding for at least this long will help ensure better performance all through his school years. IF YOU BREASTFEED YOUR BABY FOR 4–6 WEEKS, you will have eased him through the most critical part of his infancy. Newborns who are not breastfed are much more likely to get sick or be hospitalised, and have many more digestive problems than breastfed babies.
If you’re enjoying breastfeeding, you can continue for as long as you and your baby want to. That could mean until she's a year, or even two years, old. There's no need to stop before you’re both ready. How long you keep breastfeeding for is your decision. It will depend on how you feel emotionally, as well as your personal circumstances. Whatever you decide, try to give your baby nothing but breastmilk until she’s six months old (exclusive breastfeeding).
The American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP) recommends that breastfeeding continue for at least 12 months, and thereafter for as long as mother and baby desire. Healthy breastfed infants typically put on weight more slowly than formula fed infants in the first year of life. 4-5 Formula fed infants gain weight more rapidly after about 3 months of age.