1 To prevent blisters caused by rubbing (friction blisters): 2  Avoid wearing shoes that are too tight or that rub your feet. 3  Roomy footwear has a wide toe box with more room for your toes and the ball of your foot. 4  You should be able to wiggle your toes in your shoes. Some of the most common types of blisters can be prevented. 1 
Choose the right socks. Cotton socks can absorb moisture; this can help control foot odor, but friction caused by the damp cloth also increases the risk of blisters. Instead, choose socks made of quick-drying synthetic fabrics or wool. 1  Padded sports and hiking socks can be found at athletics and footwear stores. To prevent blisters in these situations, make sure to: 1  Choose athletic shoes that fit your feet very comfortably. 2  Make sure you properly break your athletic shoes in by wearing them for only for short sessions until they conform to the shape of your feet.
Step 3: Give your feet a lift. If you're prone to heel blisters, put heel lifts in your shoes. Wear them in both shoes, even if just one heel is sensitive. Insoles also can reduce blisters on heels, as well as on other parts of the foot. Step 4: Use antiperspirant. Use antiperspirant -- on your feet. Preventing foot sweat reduces the friction that can cause blisters. Apply daily to clean, dry feet, making sure you cover the entire foot, including between the toes.
MAKE SURE YOUR SHOES FIT. One of the best ways to prevent blisters on your feet is to make sure you are wearing a shoe that fits well. Ill-fitting shoes are one of the most common causes of blisters. Feet swell throughout the day from heat and the simple act of walking around on them. When it comes to socks, you get what you pay for. And good, quality moisture-wicking socks are one of the best ways to prevent blisters on your feet! Obviously, the type of activity you plan on doing will determine the type of sock you wear.
email. Knowledge center. Blisters are small pockets of liquid that form on the outer layer of the skin after the skin becomes damaged (usually caused by forceful rubbing or burning). Blisters prevent the area from becoming further damaged by protecting the skin underneath and giving it adequate time to heal. Using a protective layer of padding and using a friction management patch applied to shoes also help prevent blisters. Talcum powder can be applied on the skin to reduce the friction from gloves and shoes. You can protect yourself from blisters caused by chemicals by wearing gloves.
Another way to prevent blisters on your feet in a poorly fitting shoe is to pre-treat blister-prone areas with anti-friction powders or lubricants. Sandals/Heels/Dress Shoes. As with athletic shoes, try on sandals and dress shoes toward the end of the day when your feet are at their largest. When it comes to socks, you get what you pay for. And good, quality moisture-wicking socks are one of the best ways to prevent blisters on your feet! Obviously, the type of activity you plan on doing will determine the type of sock you wear.
Shoes that squeeze your foot, ones that are too loose, or ones that cause you to walk abnormally subject your foot to pressure and friction that may result in blisters. Try to avoid wearing these types of shoes, which include: 1  High heeled shoes, especially those with narrow toe boxes. To prevent blisters in these situations, make sure to: 1  Choose athletic shoes that fit your feet very comfortably. 2  Make sure you properly break your athletic shoes in by wearing them for only for short sessions until they conform to the shape of your feet.
Blisters. Annoying and painful, blisters are caused by friction, usually your shoes or socks rubbing against your skin. Anything that intensifies rubbing can start a blister, including a faster pace, poor-fitting shoes and foot abnormalities, such as bunions, heel spurs and hammertoes. 1 Wear shoes and socks that fit. 2  Shoes that are too small will cause blisters under the toes and on the ends of the toenails. 3  There should be a thumbs width of space between the toes and end of the toe box. 4  Your socks should fit smoothly, with no extra fabric at the toes or heels.
Typical causes of blisters on the feet include friction and pressure from wearing the wrong kind or size of shoes, from damp socks or skin, and from intense activity. If you already have blisters on your foot you will want to treat and heal them. To prevent blisters in these situations, make sure to: 1  Choose athletic shoes that fit your feet very comfortably. 2  Make sure you properly break your athletic shoes in by wearing them for only for short sessions until they conform to the shape of your feet.
Blisters-Prevention. Some of the most common types of blisters can be prevented. 1  To prevent blisters caused by rubbing (friction blisters): 2  Avoid wearing shoes that are too tight or that rub your feet.