Share. Uniquely, unlike with antibiotics, the stomach bacteria cannot develop resistance to the ‘potato juice’ which also does not cause any side-effects. Scientists at the university even carried out the test on different types of potatoes-discovering Maris Piper and King Edward varieties worked the best. It led to the discovery of a key molecule which could both cure and prevent the bacteria that lives in the stomach and causes stomach ulcers and heartburn. The discovery is one of many being made by scientists at the university as they try to develop the products and medicines of tomorrow.
Potatoes can make you sick in a number of ways: from indigestible starch, also called resistant starch, that in raw potatoes can cause stomach upset, from the contamination of bacteria present in the soil and from toxins present in some potatoes. Potatoes may absorb some of these bacteria while growing, as well as during harvest or packaging. Cooking the potatoes destroys the bacteria. Eating the potato raw may cause abdominal cramps, diarrhea, fever and an upset stomach.
If you just can’t stomach potato juice and water, try mixing in a the juice of a lemon, or some carrot juice, perhaps a tablespoon of honey, whatever it is you need to make it palatable. Find out juice mixers that cleanse your liver. How to use potato juice. The juice from potatoes has many curative effects on your digestive system but it needs to be taken on an empty stomach. When you wake up in the morning, before eating, mix a ¼ cup of potato juice with ¾ of a cup of water. Drink quickly.
However, this very unique antibacterial compound in the juice of the potato kills the bad bacteria that are responsible for ulcers and acid reflux. As a preventative method, potato juice can keep these bad bacteria from forming in the stomach in the first place. One of the best reasons to use potato juice is that, unlike antibiotics, the bacteria do not develop a resistance to it, and it does not cause any nasty side effects. Read more why antibiotics are bad for your health. How to use potato juice. The juice from potatoes has many curative effects on your digestive system but it needs to be taken on an empty stomach. When you wake up in the morning, before eating, mix a ¼ cup of potato juice with ¾ of a cup of water. Drink quickly.
Since my homeopath believed that I had gastritis, he recommended that I drink raw potato juice to relieve my stomach and intestinal pain-a whole or half a glass an hour before meals. He said that potato starch is used as an anti-inflammatory for gastronomic-intestinal diseases and toxins. When I had severe stomach problems in the 80’s, my homeopath recommended a raw potato cure-eating potato or drinking raw potato juice. He also recommended drinking olive oil and Chamomile Tea.
Eating raw potato and drinking raw potato juice every day for several months is good for stomach and intestinal problems. Here's What Happened to Me. When I had severe stomach problems in the 80’s, my homeopath recommended a raw potato cure-eating potato or drinking raw potato juice. He also recommended drinking olive oil and Chamomile Tea. These combinations cured whatever pains I was having in my stomach, intestines and gall bladder
Bacteria such as Listeria, E. coli and Salmonella are found in water and soil. Potatoes may absorb some of these bacteria while growing, as well as during harvest or packaging. Cooking the potatoes destroys the bacteria. Eating the potato raw may cause abdominal cramps, diarrhea, fever and an upset stomach. Toxins. Two toxic chemicals (steroidal glycoalkaloids) solanine and chaconine are naturally present in potatoes and are important components of their resistance against pests and pathogens
Share This Story. Members of the University's Microbiology team now hope the substance, dubbed 'potato juice' could go into production as a daily diet supplement. The stomach bacteria which cause ulcers generally develop resistance to antibiotics. But with the antibacterial molecules present in potatoes (which does not have side effects), apparently, the stomach bacteria cannot develop resistance, a Daily Mail report said. We see this 'potato juice' as a preventative measure to stop stomach ulcers developing that people would take as part of a healthy lifestyle. It could be a huge market if we can get it developed, he added.
This article will however focus on the use of potato juice. Potatoes contain many vitamins and nutrients that are beneficial to one’s health. They contain alkali-producing mineral nutrients, which is invaluable for stomach and intestinal disorders. Repeat the treatment for 10 days, and you will begin to feel the pain in the stomach disappearing. It is preferable that you drink the potato juice on its own. However, for those who really cannot bear its pungent taste, add a little bit of honey to the juice.