Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Sprinkle salmon with 2 teaspoons olive oil, salt, and pepper. Stir the tomatoes, shallots, 2 tablespoons of oil, lemon juice, oregano, thyme, salt and pepper in a medium bowl to blend. Place a salmon fillet, oiled side down, atop a sheet of foil. Wrap the ends of the foil to form a spiral shape
Place the bag with the marinade and salmon fillets in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. 1  Salmon, like all fish, is not as dense as red meats and poultry. 2  As a result, it does not need to be marinaded for long in order to absorb flavor. 3  Remove the salmon from the refrigerator at least 10 minutes prior to cooking. Place the bag with the marinade and salmon fillets in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. 1  Salmon, like all fish, is not as dense as red meats and poultry. 2
When baking a tail wrapped in foil, use 375° as the heat setting and bake the fish for 20-22 minutes. ● Salmon Steak. Steaks of course are much thicker than a fillet. For each 1″ of thickness, figure on 10 minutes of baking time. ● Middle Fillet. This fillet is one of the thickest cuts at about a 2″ thickness, coming from the middle section of the fish. The best way to cook the thicker fillets is to use 400° as the set temperature and bake the fish for 18-20 minutes. If a lower heat is desired, season the fillet and wrap it in foil, sealing it tightly and bake at 350° for about 25-30 minutes. ● Thin Fillet
Another thing that determines how long the salmon is baked is oven temperature. Typically, recipes for baking salmon call for an oven temperature of 350 to 450 degrees. The salmon should always be put into a pre-heated oven. Cooking in an oven that hasn't been pre-heated can cause drying of the fish. 
10 Minutes Per Inch. Bake salmon in a preheated, 425 degree Fahrenheit oven for 10 minutes per inch of thickness. Many salmon fillets are around an inch thick, so plan on baking it for around 10 minutes. Turn the filet halfway through, cooking 5 minutes per inch on each side
Bake Until Opaque and Flaky. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F for fillets or 350 degrees F for a dressed fish. You can bake the fillets at a lower temperature, if desired, but remember to increase the cooking time. Bake salmon fillets or steaks, uncovered, for 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch thickness. For a dressed salmon, bake for 6 to 9 minutes per 8 ounces of fish. To test for doneness, insert a fork into the salmon and gently twist. The salmon is done as soon as it begins to flake. Be sure to test at the minimum baking time.
Directions. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Season salmon with salt and pepper. Place salmon, skin side down, on a non-stick baking sheet or in a non-stick pan with an oven-proof handle. Bake until salmon is cooked through, about 12 to 15 minutes. Serve with the Toasted Almond Parsley Salad and squash, if desired. Mince the shallot and add to a small bowl
Place the salmon in the roasting pan: Place the salmon in the roasting pan, skin-side down. Transfer to the oven. Roast for 4 to 6 minutes per half-inch thickness of salmon: Roasting time depends on the thickness of your salmon, as determined by the thickest part of the salmon fillet. For every half-inch of salmon, roast 4 to 6 minutes — 4 minutes will give you salmon that is still a touch rare, 6 minutes will thoroughly cook it.