In order to become an addiction counselor, you need to obtain a master’s degree, which can take approximately 2-3 years after your bachelor’s degree. A bachelor’s degree can usually be completed in four years of full-time coursework. 
Addictions counselors help people overcome dependencies with alcohol, drugs and gambling. Counselors work with individuals, groups or the families of addicts. They refer their clients to doctors, social services and support groups, and they may help their clients during legal proceedings. Here's how to become an addiction counselor.
Substance abuse and behavioral disorder counselors help the client recover from addiction by providing treatment and support. Substance abuse and behavioral disorder counselors advise people who suffer from alcoholism, drug addiction, eating disorders, or other behavioral problems. They provide treatment and support to help the client recover from addiction or modify problem behaviors. Substance abuse and behavioral disorder counselors, also called addiction counselors, work with clients individually and in group sessions. Many incorporate the principles of 12-step programs, such as Alcoholics Anonymous (AA) to guide their practice.
1 If you have a non-Human Services Bachelor’s degree you will need to have 6,000 hours instead. 2  You must have accrued 300 hours of direct supervision during your work experience. 3  You need to have 300 hours of Addiction Counseling related education. 4  With a minimum of 100 hours in alcohol and other drug abuse courses. 
Addiction counselors work one-on-one with clients in therapeutic settings, determining the causes and triggers of their alcohol or drug abuse. Together, the client and counselor work to determine a treatment plan that will help the client to get clean or remain drug and alcohol free. Addiction counselors who wish to open a private practice must have a license. In most states, licensure requires a master’s degree and 2,000-3,000 hours of clinical experience under the supervision of a licensed counselor.
Certified addictions counselors help people with addictions to alcohol, drugs, and gambling, or who have eating disorders. As an addictions counselor you'll work with both patients and family members to help prevent and treat addictions. Research what it takes to become a certified addictions counselor. Learn about education requirements, job duties, average wages and job outlook to find out if this is the career for you. Schools offering Addiction Counseling degrees can also be found in these popular choices.
Master's level counselors, though, will generally be licensed by the board of professional counseling. The details will vary from state to state. Next, scout out educational programs. If you don't have a degree yet, you may want to pursue a degree in addiction studies. If you have a degree -- even better! Look into making yourself a competitive candidate for a master's level program in addictions counseling. You will want to ask what level of licensing/ certification the program prepares you for. Another exam that you may need to take is the Examination for Master Addiction Counselors, also offered by the NBCC. You will need to hold certification as a professional counselor through the NBCC. Additionally, you will need to demonstrate that you have had at least twelve graduate semester hours in addictions.
Pursue the following electives in college, as they will help you as an addictions counselor: Therapy and Counseling; Psychology; Sociology and Anthropology; Customer and Personal Service; Education and Teaching; English Language; Philosophy and Theology; Administration and Management; and Law and Government. Counselors work with individuals, groups or the families of addicts. They refer their clients to doctors, social services and support groups, and they may help their clients during legal proceedings. Here's how to become an addiction counselor.
Requirements may include a bachelor's degree in Human Resources, Psychology or Social Work; a certificate or associates degree in addictions counseling; completion of an internship; passing a state licensing exam and being free of drugs, alcohol and other addictions. Counselors work with individuals, groups or the families of addicts. They refer their clients to doctors, social services and support groups, and they may help their clients during legal proceedings. Here's how to become an addiction counselor.
Education Licensing. To work as an addictions counselor you will need to earn a license issued by the state within which you’ll be working. There is great variance in the amounts and type of education required from state to state. You can earn an entry level counseling position with an associate’s degree in most states