ollaweila/iStock/Getty Images. Benzene is the simplest hydrocarbon belonging to the class of organic compounds known as aromatics. Its formula, C6H6, reflects its ring structure, in which all six carbon atoms share electrons equally and the carbon-to-carbon linkages are intermediate between single and double bonds. At room temperature, benzene is a colorless liquid with the smell of 'sweet gasoline'.
Benzene is a colorless or light-yellow liquid chemical at room temperature. It is used primarily as a solvent in the chemical and pharmaceutical industries, as a starting material and an intermediate in the synthesis of numerous chemicals, and in gasoline. Benzene is produced by both natural and man-made processes. It is a natural component of crude oil, which is the main source of benzene produced today. Other natural sources include gas emissions from volcanoes and forest fires
Benzene is an organic chemical compound sometimes known as benzol. It has a particularly sweet smell and is a colorless, flammable liquid. Benzene is a major industrial solvent and is used in the production process of plastic, oil, synthetic rubber and many dyes. Ad. Commonly, benzene is used as an additive to other chemicals. It is used to make styrene, which is used to make plastics and polymers, and in the manufacturing process of nylon. Small amounts are used in the manufacturing processes of drugs, detergents, pesticides and explosives.
Benzene is an important organic chemical compound with the chemical formula C 6 H 6. Its molecule is composed of 6 carbon atoms joined in a ring, with 1 hydrogen atom attached to each carbon atom. Because its molecules contain only carbon and hydrogen atoms, benzene is classed as a hydrocarbon.
Benzene. Benzene belongs to a class of chemicals called volatile organic compounds, so called because they evaporate in the air. Benzene is made from coal and petroleum sources and is present in gasoline. As one of the most commonly-made chemicals in the United States, benzene is often used to make many other chemicals. Benzene is also present in cigarette smok
Benzene is a colorless, flammable liquid with a sweet odor. It evaporates quickly when exposed to air. Benzene is formed from natural processes, such as volcanoes and forest fires, but most exposure to benzene results from human activities. Benzene is among the 20 most widely used chemicals in the United States. Benzene can also be absorbed through the skin during contact with a source such as gasoline, but because liquid benzene evaporates quickly, this is less common. People can be exposed to benzene at work, in the general environment, and through the use of some consumer products.
Benzene is a widely used industrial chemical. Benzene is found in crude oil and is a major part of gasoline. Its used to make plastics, resins, synthetic fibers, rubber lubricants, dyes, detergents, drugs and pesticides. Benzene is produced naturally by volcanoes and forest fires. 
Download article as a PDF. Benzene is a carcinogenic substance that is present in a great number of modern products and industries. It is formed through both natural processes and human activities, but importantly, high level of exposure to benzene can be quite dangerous. 
Benzene is a natural constituent of crude oil, and is one of the most elementary petrochemicals. Benzene is an aromatic hydrocarbon and the second [ n ]- annulene ([6]-annulene), a cyclic hydrocarbon with a continuous pi bond. Its molecule is composed of 6 carbon atoms joined in a ring, with 1 hydrogen atom attached to each carbon atom. Because its molecules contain only carbon and hydrogen atoms, benzene is classed as a hydrocarbon.