To measure the temperature: 1  Fridge: put the thermometer in a glass of water. 2  Check the temperature during the first door opening after not using the fridge for 8 hours or more (such as overnight). 3  Freezer: put thermometer between two bags of vegetables and as above check after 8 hours or more. The Knowhow. 1  A fridge should have a temperature of between 37°F(3°C) and 40°F (5°C). 2  Any higher and the food will go off, any lower and you’ll lose nutrients and fresh food can be ruined. 3  The ideal freezer temperature is 0°F (-18°C) which will store food safely and stop bacteria forming.
1 A fridge should have a temperature of between 37°F(3°C) and 40°F (5°C). 2  Any higher and the food will go off, any lower and you’ll lose nutrients and fresh food can be ruined. 3  The ideal freezer temperature is 0°F (-18°C) which will store food safely and stop bacteria forming. The Knowhow. 1  A fridge should have a temperature of between 37°F(3°C) and 40°F (5°C). 2  Any higher and the food will go off, any lower and you’ll lose nutrients and fresh food can be ruined. 3  The ideal freezer temperature is 0°F (-18°C) which will store food safely and stop bacteria forming.
1 If you do lose power, keep the doors to your fridge and freezer closed as much as possible to keep foods cold. 2  Before using any foods, check your refrigerator and freezer thermometers. 3  If the fridge is still at or below 40 °F, or the food has been above 40 °F for only two hours or less, it should be safe to eat. 1 Marinated Foods: Always keep food in the refrigerator while it's marinating. 2  Bacteria can multiply rapidly in foods left to marinate at room temperature. 3  Also, remember this tip for marinating safely: never reuse marinating liquid as a sauce unless you bring it to a rapid boil first.
Normally a domestic freezer is best set to −18 °C (0 °F) or colder, as that's what the expiration dates for many food items are based on. It's also a requirement for freezers in restaurants, supermarkets & other places that sell food (at least here in Europe) to maintain a temperature of at most -18 °C. A general purpose domestic fridge should be at around 1-4 °C (so, just above the freezing point, and below 5 °C). In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40°F (0-4°C). Your freezer must be below 32°F (0°C). I keep mine as cold as it will go.
Best Answer: Safe Refrigerator Temperature For safety, it is important to verify the temperature of the refrigerator. Refrigerators should be set to maintain a temperature of 40 °F or below. An appliance thermometer can be kept in the refrigerator to monitor the temperature. This can be critical in the event of a power outage. When the power goes back on, if the refrigerator is still 40 °F, the food is safe. Foods held at temperatures above 40 °F for more than 2 hours should not be consumed. Appliance thermometers are specifically designed to provide accuracy at cold temperatures.
1 Fridge: put the thermometer in a glass of water. 2  Check the temperature during the first door opening after not using the fridge for 8 hours or more (such as overnight). 3  Freezer: put thermometer between two bags of vegetables and as above check after 8 hours or more. The Knowhow. 1  A fridge should have a temperature of between 37°F(3°C) and 40°F (5°C). 2  Any higher and the food will go off, any lower and you’ll lose nutrients and fresh food can be ruined. 3  The ideal freezer temperature is 0°F (-18°C) which will store food safely and stop bacteria forming.
Therefore, you want your refrigerator to be cold, but not so cold that it freezes things. The preferred temperature is somewhere between 35 and 38 degrees F (1.7 to 3.3 degrees C). Anything higher and foods will spoil too quickly (it also presents food poisoning problems, as described in several of the links below).
In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40° F (0-4 degrees Celsius). Your freezer must be below 32° F (0° Celsius). I keep mine as cold as it will go. Keep your freezer efficient by half-filling it with bottles of water. Your refrigerator probably isn't set right, and your food items may not be where they should be in your fridge. The kitchen fanatics at Stack Exchange offer a couple tips on ensuring your perishables don't perish.
1 Keep the refrigerator temperature at or below 40° F (4° C). 2  The freezer temperature should be 0° F (-18° C). 3  Check temperatures periodically. 4  Appliance thermometers are the best way of knowing these temperatures and are generally inexpensive. 