Nathan Carter (born 28 May 1990) is an Irish country singer. Nathan was born in Liverpool to parents from Northern Ireland. He began playing the accordion at age 4 and at age 10, he won the title for All Ireland Title for Traditional Singing. At 18 he moved from Liverpool to live in Ireland. His debut album, Starting Out, was released in 2007 and from then on he has been known for reviving the genre of Country and Irish….
Nathan Carter on becoming a Liverpool-Irish country music star. Nathan Carter. LAST month a second-generation Irishman raised in Liverpool outsold the likes of Kodaline, One Direction and Michael Buble bublé to shoot to the top of The Irish album charts with his Album Where I Wanna. be
wew. Born on 28th May 1990, Nathan spent his childhood years in Liverpool, England, and grew up in a family with strong Irish roots, his folks originating from Newry in County Down. Trips to Ireland to compete in Fleadh Ceoil`s became a regular feature of young Nathan`s life, resulting in All Ireland medals for solo singing, and in accordion, all at just 12 years of age. Nathan soon became a member of the Liverpool Ceili band, playing piano accordion and piano.
RSVP Interviews Nathan Carter. 21-year-old Nathan Carter has been touring around the country with his band since 2008 and the young singer hasn’t looked back since. The fresh-faced Liverpudlian began playing music at the age of five and regularly travelled across the Irish Sea to compete in Fleadh Ceoils on this side of the water. After leaving school at 16 to realise his ambitions, Nathan moved to Donegal where he is now based. When RSVP caught up with Nathan last year for our May issue, he chatted happily about his young fans, his ambition and making country music cool again.
Nathan Carter was born on July 30, 1984 in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. He is an actor, known for Radio Free Roscoe (2003), Searching for Bobby Fischer (1993) and Deathlands (2003). See full bio ». 
Nathan Carter Bio. About The Artist. In both his sculptures and his paintings, Nathan Carter employs a specific lexicon of shapes,line, and bold color to create a dynamic composition of carefully balanced elements, resulting in a sense of movement even in completely still works.
# 9330 Most Popular Person Most Popular Person # 25 Born on May 28 Born on May 28 # 13 Person named Nathan Person named Nathan # 2 Gemini named Nathan Gemini named Nathan # 7 May 28 Singer May 28 Singer. 
In doing so, Liverpool-born Nathan Carter became the first country act to reach number one in the Irish charts since Garth Brooks managed the same feat more than six years ago. An impressive feat in what is a perennially unpopular music genre. However, to simply call Carter a country singer would be selling him short. Nathan Carter. LAST month a second-generation Irishman raised in Liverpool outsold the likes of Kodaline, One Direction and Michael Buble bublé to shoot to the top of The Irish album charts with his Album Where I Wanna. be
Nathan Carter (born 28 May 1990) is an Irish country singer signed to Decca Records since 2014. He was earlier on Sharpe Music. He is one of the biggest stars of the genre of music known as Country and Irish. Career [edit]. Nathan was born in Liverpool and went to Bishop Eaton School in Allerton Liverpool playing the accordion at age 4 in the school concert and at age 10, he won the title for All Ireland Title for Traditional Singing. At 18 he moved from Liverpool to live in Ireland