1 Pole beans: Set up trellises, or “cattle panels,” and plant 3 inches apart. 2  If you like pole beans, an easy support for them is a “cattle panel”—a portable section of wire fence—16 feet long and 5 feet tall. 3  The beans will climb with ease, and you won’t have to get into contorted positions to pick them. According to the Louisiana extension services the best time to plant pole beans is 2/15 to 5/15 for spring and 8/10 to 8/31 for fall. They take 60 to 66 days to harvest. If your climate, however, is cooler this year, you could probably stretch it.
Green beans are the second most popular vegetable grown in home gardens, topped only by tomatoes. Pole beans are a variety of green beans that scale fences or stakes. If your garden space is limited, growing pole beans may conserve ground area while adding a dimension of height to your garden layout. 1 Select an area that receives full sunlight. 2  When you cultivate pole beans, they need plenty of sunshine. 3  Choose an area next to a fence or plan on installing poles at least 3 feet (91.44 cm) high.
While you can use tomato cages for staking beans, they make less than ideal pole bean supports. This is because they are not tall enough for the typical pole bean plant. If you use tomato cages as a way how to stake up pole beans, just realize that the bean plants will outgrow the cages and will flop over the top. They will still produce pods, but their production will be reduced. Print This Article. The bean pole is used because it is one of the easiest ways how to stake up pole beans. When using poles as pole bean supports, you will want the pole to be 6 to 8 feet tall. The pole should be rough to help the bean grow up the pole.
Fresh crisp beans are a summer treat that is easy to grow in most climates. Beans may be pole or bush; however, growing pole beans allows the gardener to maximize planting space. Planting pole beans also ensures a longer crop period and may yield up to three times as many beans as the bush varieties. When to Plant Pole Beans. Weather is an important consideration, when planting pole beans. Beans do not transplant well and do best when directly sown into the garden. Sow the seeds when soil temperatures are around 60 degrees F. and the ambient air has warmed to at least the same temperature.
How to Plant Pole Beans. Sow the seeds 4 to 8 inches apart in rows that are 24 to 36 inches apart in rows. Push the seeds one inch and lightly brush soil over them. When planting them in hills, sow four to six seeds at even intervals around the hill. Water after planting until the top 2 to 3 inches of soil are damp. When to Plant Pole Beans. Weather is an important consideration, when planting pole beans. Beans do not transplant well and do best when directly sown into the garden. Sow the seeds when soil temperatures are around 60 degrees F. and the ambient air has warmed to at least the same temperature.
Pole beans reward the home gardener with excellent bean plants that yield all summer long with only the slightest effort of building a trellis or setting up a row of poles. 13 Results. 
Pole beans are among the few vegetables that add a sense of height to the garden. Pole beans can climb up stakes or fence supports, or even scale corn stalks. If growing space is limited, pole beans are the answer. While pole beans are planted later than snap beans, pole beans yield over a longer period of time and frequent picking encourages more production. Plant pole beans 2” deep on slight hills around poles or teepees spaced at 16” apart. Grow 4-8 seeds on each hill. Space pole beans 3” apart if growing on a fence. Sow after all danger of frost is over and the soil is warm, 18&degC (65°F).
Pole beans, green beans (pole), wax beans (pole), Vegetable (Warm Season) - Other. Phaseolus vulgaris (Pole beans). Fabaceae Family. Pole beans yield two to three times more than bush beans from the same space, are easier to harvest, and many gardeners believe they are better tasting. Both types have similar requirements, except pole beans need a 5- to 8-foot-tall support. Can provide strong background or vertical element in flower garden.
//d5kh2btv85w9n.cloudfront.net/7/77/Grow Pole Beans Step 2.360p.mp4. 3. Test the ph level of your soil with a soil tester. You can purchase soil testers at a nursery or garden shop, or bring a small sample of dirt to the nursery and ask them to test it for you. 1 Select an area that receives full sunlight. 2  When you cultivate pole beans, they need plenty of sunshine. 3  Choose an area next to a fence or plan on installing poles at least 3 feet (91.44 cm) high.
Pole beans need a support structure at least 6 feet high and the vines can grow 5 to 10 feet long. Pole beans need at least an inch of water per week and should not be allowed to dry out but also cannot tolerate soggy soils. Beans need a little help climbing their support structure, especially when young. When to Plant Pole Beans. Weather is an important consideration, when planting pole beans. Beans do not transplant well and do best when directly sown into the garden. Sow the seeds when soil temperatures are around 60 degrees F. and the ambient air has warmed to at least the same temperature.