The term distilled vinegar is something of a misnomer, because it is not produced by distillation but by fermentation of distilled alcohol. The fermentate is diluted to produce a colorless solution of 5% to 8% acetic acid in water, with a pH of about 2.4. Apple cider vinegar is made from cider or apple must, and has a brownish-gold color. It is often sold unfiltered and unpasteurized with the mother of vinegar present, as a natural product. It is often diluted with fruit juice or water, or sweetened (usually with honey) for consumption as a health beverage.
Distilled alcohol or spirits (Ethanol) is the key ingredient for White Vinegar production. Ethanol is first produced by the fermentation of sugars derived from cider, beer, wine, fermented fruit juice, or synthetically made from natural gas and petroleum derivatives. Later Ethanol is boiled to reduce water percentage. 
White vinegar, sometimes also called “distilled vinegar,” is a mildly acidic clear liquid used in cooking and cleaning that is usually made through the fermentation of grain alcohol. 
White Distilled Vinegar. White Distilled Vinegar is the most common type of vinegar in American households and is made from grain-based ethanol which is converted to acetic acid and diluted to preferred acidity with water.
Vinegar is a liquid consisting mainly of acetic acid (CH 3 COOH) and water. The acetic acid is produced by the fermentation of ethanol by acetic acid bacteria. Vinegar is now mainly used as a cooking ingredient. Apple cider vinegar is made from cider or apple must, and has a brownish-gold color. It is often sold unfiltered and unpasteurized with the mother of vinegar present, as a natural product. It is often diluted with fruit juice or water, or sweetened (usually with honey) for consumption as a health beverage.
No, it's not. White vinegar (also known as distilled vinegar) is made of acetic acid diluted in distilled water. Its flavor is simple—its just sour. Typical concentrations range from 5–7% acetic acid. White wine vinegar is made by allowing white wine to turn to vinegar. It has a much more complex flavor profile. 
Wine vinegar is made from red or white wine, and is the most commonly used vinegar in Southern and Central Europe, Cyprus and Israel. As with wine, there is a considerable range in quality. Better-quality wine vinegars are matured in wood for up to two years, and exhibit a complex, mellow flavor. Apple cider vinegar is made from cider or apple must, and has a brownish-gold color. It is often sold unfiltered and unpasteurized with the mother of vinegar present, as a natural product. It is often diluted with fruit juice or water, or sweetened (usually with honey) for consumption as a health beverage.
Distilled White Vinegar. Heinz ® Distilled White Vinegar is made from sun-ripened grain and crystal clear water. With a clean, crisp flavor, it's ideal for your favorite marinades, salads, and recipes. 