The Nez Perce are an Indian tribe that lived in North Central Idaho, Oregon, and Washington. They were chased out of their land by the U.S Army to the Canadian border then to … the bear paw mountains where chief Joseph surrrendered. Then they were brought to a reservation in Oklahoma. 13 people found this useful. 
The Nimi'ipuu traveled across Oregon, Washington, and Idaho. The tradition homeland of the NiMiiPuu is North Central Idaho, including areas in Southeastern Washington, Northeastern Oregon with usual and accustomed areas in Western Montana and Wyoming. 
The Nez Perce Indians lived in scattered villages in the Plains west of the Rocky Mountains. About 4,000 in number, they were excellent horsemen and owned the largest horse herd on the continent. They fished for salmon along the Clearwater and Snake rivers, and harvested camas plants in mountain meadows. 
The Nez Perce Reservation, located in north central Idaho, consists of 88,314 acres with a tribal population of 3,250. Tribal headquarters are located in the city of Lapwai, which has a population 1,093. 
Nez Perce is a misnomer given by the interpreter of the Lewis and Clark Expedition at the time they first encountered the Nez Perce in 1805. It was a French term meaning pierced nose.. This is an inaccurate description of the tribe. They did not practice nose piercing or wearing ornaments. The federally recognized Nez Perce Nation currently governs and lives within its reservation in Idaho. Their name for themselves is Nimiipuu (nimíipuu [pronounced]), nimiːpuː, Meaning The, people in their, language part of The sahaptin. family
The Nez Perce territory at the time of Lewis and Clark (1804-1806) was approximately 17,000,000 acres (69,000 km 2). It covered parts of present-day Washington, Oregon, Montana, and Idaho, in an area surrounding the Snake, Salmon and the Clearwater rivers. The federally recognized Nez Perce Nation currently governs and lives within its reservation in Idaho. Their name for themselves is Nimiipuu (nimíipuu [pronounced]), nimiːpuː, Meaning The, people in their, language part of The sahaptin. family
Location. Located in north central Idaho, the boundaries of the Nez Perce Reservation place it within confines of the Clearwater Plateau Sub-basin. Because the Sub-basin encompasses the Reservation, the Clearwater Sub-basin name will be used in reference to the Nez Perce Reservation throughout the pages in this site. 
Nez Perce County (pron. Nezz Purse) is a county located in the U.S. state of Idaho. As of the 2010 census, the population was 39,265. The county seat is Lewiston. The county is named for the Nez Perce percé. Tribe Nez Perce county is part of The, LEWISTON-ID Wa Metropolitan Statistical. area Nez Perce County was originally organized in 1861, when the area was part of Washington Territory. It was reorganized in 1864 by the Idaho Territorial Legislature and was later subdivided into new counties. Rapid migration to the Palouse in the 1880s led to the formation of Latah County in 1888.
(Sahaptin, Shahaptin). The Nez Perce were the largest tribe Lewis and Clark met between the Missouri River and the Pacific Coast. They ranged across today's central Idaho, southeastern Washington State, and northeastern Oregon, from the western base of the Rockies to the falls of the Columbia River. In the 1830s there were an estimated 6,000 Nez Perce. Nez Perce, (French for pierced nose) referred to the nose pendants which some of the Indians wore. As typical plateau Indians, the Nez Perce fished the Clearwater and Snake Rivers and harvested camas roots.