Originally it was developed to treat epilepsy, and is currently used to relieve neuropathic pain and restless leg syndrome. It is recommended as a first line agent for the treatment of neuropathic pain arising from diabetic neuropathy, post-herpetic neuralgia, and central neuropathic pain. The most common side effects of gabapentin in adult patients include dizziness, fatigue, drowsiness, weight gain, and peripheral edema (swelling of extremities).
Gabapentin is used primarily to treat seizures and neuropathic pain. It is also commonly prescribed for many off-label uses, such as treatment of anxiety disorders, insomnia, and bipolar disorder. The most common side effects of gabapentin in adult patients include dizziness, fatigue, drowsiness, weight gain, and peripheral edema (swelling of extremities).
A: Gabapentin is in a drug class called anticonvulsants. Gabapentin is used in people who have epilepsy to control certain types of seizures. Additionally, gabapentin is used to treat pain from postherpetic neuralgia, which includes pains and aches that last for months to years after being inflicted with shingles. Q: I take 600 mg of gabapentin a day to control my interstitial cystitus. A: Neurontin (gabapentin) is a seizure medication used to treat sharp-shooting nerve pain, and interstitial cystitis is a long-term inflammation of the bladder wall.
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Gabapentin is an anti-sizure (anti-convulsant) drug that is used for preventing seizures and for treating post-herpetic neuralgia, the pain that follows an episode of shingles. The mechanism of action of gabapentin is not known. 
Gabapentin, marketed under the brand name Neurontin among others, is a medication used as an anticonvulsant and analgesic. The most common side effects of gabapentin in adult patients include dizziness, fatigue, drowsiness, weight gain, and peripheral edema (swelling of extremities).
Gabapentin is also used in adults to manage a condition called postherpetic neuralgia, which is pain that occurs after shingles. Gabapentin works in the brain to prevent seizures and relieve pain for certain conditions in the nervous system. It is not used for routine pain caused by minor injuries or arthritis. Gabapentin is an anticonvulsant.
Gabapentin is approved to treat seizures caused by epilepsy, either alone or in combination with other medications and to treat partial seizures in combination with other medications. Gabapentin is also approved to treat nerve pain caused by the herpes virus or herpes zoster (shingles). Q: I take 600 mg of gabapentin a day to control my interstitial cystitus. A: Neurontin (gabapentin) is a seizure medication used to treat sharp-shooting nerve pain, and interstitial cystitis is a long-term inflammation of the bladder wall.
Gabapentin, or Neurontin, is an anticonvulsant with analgesic properties that is available in capsule, tablet and oral solution. It has a wide range of intended uses, including controlling specific types of seizures in patients with epilepsy, treating postherpetic neuralgia (PHN) and restless leg syndrome. Gabapentin can also be used to as a pain reliever for those suffering from diabetic neuropathy, which is numbness or pain due to diabetes and subsequent nerve damage. For menopausal women or women being treated for breast cancer, gabapentin can relieve hot flashes.
A: Neurontin (gabapentin) is an anticonvulsant. It's used to treat seizures and also nerve pain from shingles. Common side effects of Neurontin include dizziness, drowsiness, nausea, blurred vision, dry mouth, headache, diarrhea, and constipation. Q: I take 600 mg of gabapentin a day to control my interstitial cystitus. A: Neurontin (gabapentin) is a seizure medication used to treat sharp-shooting nerve pain, and interstitial cystitis is a long-term inflammation of the bladder wall.
Uses of This Medicine. Gabapentin is used to help control partial seizures (convulsions) in the treatment of epilepsy. This medicine cannot cure epilepsy and will only work to control seizures for as long as you continue to take it. Gabapentin works in the brain to prevent seizures and relieve pain for certain conditions in the nervous system. It is not used for routine pain caused by minor injuries or arthritis. Gabapentin is an anticonvulsant.