RE: How long does it take for the irs to process your 2013 tax refund? I filed my taxes feb 1st and it was accepted so then I checked the status of my refund and its still saying your refund is being processed. Its been 8 days now and I looked at the refund cycle chart and It says expected deposit date is feb 15th. 
If a tax return is e-filed it will take approximately 10 days to  receive the refund by direct deposit. Mailed checks take about 21  days. Confidence votes 5.9K. The IRS can take as long as it needs to in order to properly verify that you are owed a refund. If they don't send your refund within 45 days after April 15 or 45 after they receive your return (whichever is later), they will pay interest.
We know how important your tax refund is to you. Good news, the IRS started processing tax returns on January 30th. Returns will be processed in the order they were submitted and as soon as your tax return is accepted, we will notify you by email. This notification could take up to 48 hours. The IRS estimates that you should receive your tax refund within 21 days of your return being accepted. The IRS issued more than 9 out of 10 refunds in less than 21 days last year and expects the same results this year. Once your tax return has been accepted by the IRS, you can track the status of your refund by logging into your MyTurboTax account or checking the IRS Where’s My Refund Tool. IRS Update: The IRS announced today that they are experiencing high traffic on their
The IRS will begin processing refunds at the end of January, a process that is always faster if you e-file. Tax refunds are normally issued within approximately 21 days if you file electronically, but due to budget cuts, expect to wait a bit longer. Check the status of your refund within 24 hours after your e-filed tax return is received by the IRS or four weeks after your tax forms are mailed in. [Image: Daily Finance 1  ]. Share 746. 2  Tweet 18. 3  Share 9. 4  Share 10. 5  Pin It 0
If you requested a refund of tax withheld on a Form 1042-S by filing a Form 1040NR, we will need additional time to process the return. Please allow up to 6 months from the original due date of the 1040NR return or the date you actually filed the 1040NR, whichever is later to receive any refund due. You can use Where’s My Refund? to start checking on the status of your return within 24 hours after we have received your e-filed return or 4 weeks after you mail a paper return. Where’s My Refund? has a tracker that displays progress through 3 stages: (1) Return Received, (2) Refund Approved and (3) Refund Sent.
If you e-file you will generally receive an acknowledgment that the IRS has received your return within 48 hours, either by email or within the tax-filing program you used. Seventy-two hours after the IRS has acknowledged your return you can track it on the IRS' Where's my refund? page. Information about the progress of your return will be available on the site. Bear in mind that you can only track returns for the current tax-filing year.
What to Expect for Refunds in 2015. The IRS issues more than 9 out of 10 refunds in less than 21 days. However, it’s possible your tax return may require additional review and take longer. The easiest way to check your refund status is by using our automated tools. Where’s My Refund? has the most up to date information available about your refund. You can use Where’s My Refund? to start checking on the status of your return within 24 hours after we have received your e-filed return or 4 weeks after you mail a paper return. Where’s My Refund? has a tracker that displays progress through 3 stages: (1) Return Received, (2) Refund Approved and (3) Refund Sent.
1 Return Received Notice within 24 – 48 hours after e-file – The IRS Where’s My Refund tool will show “Return Received” status once they begin processing your tax return. 2  You will not see a refund date until the IRS finishes processing your tax return and approves your tax refund. 
Save. The length of time it takes the Internal Revenue Service to process a return, send a refund or apply a payment depends on several conditions, including the filing and refund delivery methods. The IRS, according to statistics on its website, processed more than 145 million individual returns in 2013. The IRS provides methods for checking the status of your return within the normal processing time -- 21 days for e-filed returns and four weeks for mailed returns. Check the status on the IRS website using the “Where’s My Refund” link or use the “IRS2Go” mobile application. Tracking systems update every 24 hours.