In 2013, the United States Tobacco Industry initiated the U.S. Tobacco Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) Program. At present, the U.S. Tobacco GAP Program is organized and housed by GAP Connections, Inc. in Knoxville, Tennessee. 
Overall, there were 2.1 million farms of any type in the United States in 2012, using 914 million acres, which means that tobacco farms accounted for less than half of one percent of both the total number of U.S. farms and U.S. farm acreage. Tobacco farm revenue totaled $1.5 billion or less than one half of a percent of total U.S. farm income ($394.6 billion). Ranked By Number of Tobacco Farms 1. Kentucky 4,530 2. North Carolina 1,682 3. Pennsylvania 1,312 4. Tennessee 935 5.
According to NC Dept of Agriculture: Tobacco has historically been the major cash crop in North Carolina and remains one of the state's most predominant farm commodities. North Carolina produces almost three-quarters of the flue-cured tobacco grown in the United States. In 1939, the State harvested the record high number of acres of 851,000 acres. 
1 Farms in the United States produced nearly 800 million pounds of tobacco in 2012. 2  In 2012, tobacco was grown in 19 U.S. states, with North Carolina, Kentucky, and Georgia accounting for nearly 80% of production. In 2012, tobacco companies spent $9.6 billion marketing cigarettes and smokeless tobacco in the United States alone. This amount translates to about $26 million each day, or more than $1 million every hour. 1.
Burley tobacco is a variety of tobacco grown in Kentucky, Tennessee, and other states in the Appalachian US. In 2012, Kentucky produced 74 percent of the US burley tobacco crop. [21] Burley tobacco is harvested by the stalk, and the harvest is done primarily by hand in a difficult, labor-intensive process. 
The leading tobacco producing states in the U.S. include North Carolina, Kentucky and Georgia. North Carolina lies in the Virginia-Carolina tobacco belt and topped the list in 2014 with a tobacco production over 453 million pounds. In the United States, the legal smoking age varies by state and starts around 18 years. Leading tobacco producing U.S. states in 2013 and 2014 (in 1,000 pounds). This statistic shows the leading U.S. states based on tobacco production in 2013 and 2014. In Kentucky, some 214.3 million pounds of tobacco were produced in 2014.
Confidence votes 38. Tobacco is grown in warm climates all over the world. It is a green, leafy plant. In the United States the states where most tobacco is grown is within Virginia, Kentucky and central Tennessee. Some examples of Types of tobacco and where they are grown: Brightleaf tobacco, Brightleaf is commonly known as Virginia tobacco, often regardless of which state they are planted. Oriental tobacco, is a sun-cured, highly aromatic, small-leafed variety (Nicotiana tabacum) that is grown in Turkey, Greece, Bulgaria, and Macedonia. Oriental tobacco is frequently referred to as Turkish tobacco, as these regions were all historically part of the Ottoman Empire.
1 Aromatic Fire-cured, it is cured by smoke from open fires. 2  In the United States, it is grown in northern middle Tennessee, central Kentucky and in Virginia. 3  Fire-cured tobacco grown in Kentucky and Tennessee are used in some chewing tobaccos, moist snuff, some cigarettes, and as a condiment in pipe tobacco blends. Cigar tobacco is grown in significant quantities in Brazil, Cameroon, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Honduras, Indonesia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Sumatra, Philippines, and the Eastern United States.
A cigar is a tightly rolled bundle of dried and fermented tobacco which is ignited so that its smoke may be drawn into the mouth. Cigar tobacco is grown in significant quantities in Brazil, Cameroon, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Honduras, Indonesia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Sumatra, Philippines, and the Eastern United States.
1 In the United States, it is grown in northern middle Tennessee, central Kentucky and in Virginia. 2  Fire-cured tobacco grown in Kentucky and Tennessee are used in some chewing tobaccos, moist snuff, some cigarettes, and as a condiment in pipe tobacco blends. Cigar tobacco is grown in significant quantities in Brazil, Cameroon, Cuba, Dominican Republic, Honduras, Indonesia, Mexico, Nicaragua, Sumatra, Philippines, and the Eastern United States.