Why you shouldn’t avoid all carbs…. Despite what you may have heard, not all carbs are bad for you. In fact, natural carbohydrates are an extremely important part of a healthy diet. Carbs give you energy and provide many of the vitamins, minerals, enzymes, antioxidants, and phytonutrients necessary for good health.
Your best good carbs sources are from this healthy carbohydrates list: 1  Raw and lightly steamed vegetables, 2  Legumes, beans, nuts and seeds, 3  High fiber 100% whole grains, 4  Raw, whole, fresh fruits, 5  Most low fat dairy. The facts are clear – bad carbs are bad and good carbs are good! So start replacing all the bad carbs in your diet with the nutritious good carbs found on the Complex Carbohydrates List of Healthy Carbs.
The problem is: The many studies that have linked fiber-rich foods with health benefits were based on foods naturally rich in fiber – that’s right, good carbohydrates like 100% whole-grain cereals, fresh fruits, fresh vegetables, and bean-rich soups. From the bullets above, it’s easy to see how a diet rich in good carbs can lead to a lean body and good health. And how a diet of processed carbs like white flour and sat-fat-rich foods like 16-ounce steaks and cheeseburgers has busted not only our health but our health-care system.
That's where the idea of a list of good carbs and bad carbs comes from. It basically breaks down into simple carbs being bad and complex carbs being good.. Complex and simple are terms that deal with how food is broken down into energy (sugar) in the body. Simple Carbs. Your body quickly breaks down simple carbs, giving your blood sugar a spike and sending you running back to the kitchen or snack machine within hours of your last fix. Unless you're an athlete or need a sudden rush of energy for some reason, it's usually best to avoid these carbs in your daily diet:
Understanding Carbohydrates. How much and what type of carbohydrate foods are important for managing diabetes. The balance between how much insulin is in your body and the carbohydrate you eat makes a difference in your blood glucose levels. Learn more about how much and what foods to include in your meal plan. 
Two types of carbohydrates exist: complex carbohydrates and simple carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrates take time to break down into glucose. Foods rich in complex carbohydrates and fiber are called good carbohydrates. Simple carbohydrates include sugars found in foods such as fruits and milk products and sugars added during food processing. Foods rich in white flour and added sugars are called bad carbohydrates. Whole-grain products such as brown rice, whole-grain pasta, beans, whole wheat bread, whole oats, buckwheat, millet, whole rye, whole-grain barley and whole-grain corn are considered good carbohydrates. These foods are rich in fiber, vitamins, minerals and phytonutrients that are beneficial to your health. 
Some carbs are simple, like sugar. Other carbs are complex, like those found in beans, nuts, vegetables, and whole grains. Complex carbohydrates are better for you because they take longer for your body to digest. They give you steady energy and fiber. 
1 But in reality, these are considered good carbs. 2  It's just a matter of making sure that you are consuming an appropriate portion  a small-medium sized banana, and 1/2 to 1 cup of potatoes (depending on your size and meal composition) is a healthy choice. 
Carbs within colorful vegetables and fruits are always better for your body than carb-rich foods like breads, pastas, rice, and potatoes. Here's a great graphic that illustrates how to incorporate carbs into your diet. It is also best to aim for fiber-rich carbohydrates (peas and beans, fruit, oatmeal). Higher intake of fiber is linked to lower heart disease and diabetes risk.