tierra. tierra is usally a girl that is outgoing, amazing and extremly cute and beautiful (even though she wont admit it). Shes like one of the guys but looks and acts like the perfect girl.
The name Tierra is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Tierra is: Earth. American Meaning: The name Tierra is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Tierra is: Earth. Latin Meaning: The name Tierra is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Tierra is: Headdress. A tiara is a jeweled headpiece or demi-crown
In this context, the computer programs in Tierra are considered to be evolvable and can mutate, self-replicate and recombine. Tierra's virtual machine is written in C. It operates on a custom instruction set designed to facilitate code changes and reordering, including features such as jump to template (as opposed to the relative or absolute jumps common to most instruction sets). Tierra is an abstract model, but any quantitative model is still subject to the same validation and verification techniques applied to more traditional mathematical models, and as such, has no special status.
The noun TIERRA DEL FUEGO has 1 sense: 1. an archipelago off southern South America; separated from the continent by the Strait of Magellan; islands are administered by Chile and by Argentina. Familiarity information: TIERRA DEL FUEGO used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details. 
Tierra /tier-ra/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced tee-AIR-ah. It is of Spanish origin, and the meaning of Tierra is earth. Geography name that rhymes with Sierra. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Tierra for girls. Tierra entered the list in 1980-1989 and reached its apex rank of #320 in the U.S. in 1993, but is not found in the list at the moment.
Origin of TIERRA CALIENTE. Spanish, literally, hot land. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. 
How popular is Tierra? Tierra is a very prominent first name for females (#1666 out of 4276, Top 39%) and a slightly less prominent surname for all people (#124109 out of 150436, Top 82%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Tierra for girls. Tierra entered the list in 1980-1989 and reached its apex rank of #320 in the U.S. in 1993, but is not found in the list at the moment.
Definition of TIERRA TEMPLADA. : a region or zone of temperate climate; especially: tropical land of usually from 2000 to 6000 foot elevation in which the temperature is modified by the elevation. ADVERTISEMENT. Spanish, literally, temperate land. 
The basic Tierra model has been used to experimentally explore in silico the basic processes of evolutionary and ecological dynamics. Processes such as the dynamics of punctuated equilibrium, host-parasite co-evolution and density-dependent natural selection are amenable to investigation within the Tierra framework. Tierra is an abstract model, but any quantitative model is still subject to the same validation and verification techniques applied to more traditional mathematical models, and as such, has no special status.