They are most commonly found in dry forests near streams and lakes. The giant anteater (Myrmecophaga tridactyla) is almost entirely terrestrial and usually found in grasslands and savannas. It is a solitary animal, found in many habitats, including grasslands, deciduous forests, and rainforests. It feeds mainly on ants and termites, sometimes up to 30,000 insects in a single day. Anteaters live in the rain-forest. This means they can be found  from Mexico in South America all the way to Uruguay and Argentina  in Central America.
Best Answer: The largest representative of the group is the giant anteater, or ant-bear (Myrmecophaga tridactyla), an animal measuring 4 feet (1.2 m) in length without the tail, and 2 feet (60 cm) in height at the shoulder. It has a long, thin head and a large, bushy tail. 
Where do Anteater Live. Most of these animals are known to reside in the southeastern Mexico and extending across the north of Central America. Some of them inhabits in Uruguay and Brazil. Anteaters are primarily found in the grasslands, tropical forests and savannas. 
Anteaters can be found in tropical dry forests, rainforests, grasslands and savannas. The silky anteater (Cyclopes didactylus) is an arboreal specialist that is most commonly found in rainforest. Anteaters live in the rain-forest. This means they can be found  from Mexico in South America all the way to Uruguay and Argentina  in Central America.
Anteaters can be found in tropical dry forests, rainforests,  grasslands and savannas. The silky anteater (Cyclopes didactylus)  is an arboreal specialist that is most commo … nly found in  rainforest. The tamandua are arboreal and terrestrial opportunists  in regards to terrain and food resources. They are most commonly  found in dry forests near streams and lakes. The giant anteater  (Myrmecophaga tridactyla) is almost entirely terrestrial and  usually found in grasslands and savannas. It is a solitary animal,  found in many habitats, including grasslands, deciduous forests,  and rainforest
Anteaters are found in Central and South America, where they prefer tropical forests and grasslands. There are four different species which vary greatly in size. The silky anteater is the size of a squirrel, while the giant anteater can reach 7 feet (2.1 meters) long from the tip of its snout to the end of its tail. Some anteaters, the tamandua and the silky anteater, ply their trade in the trees. They travel from branch to branch in search of tasty insects. Anteaters are not aggressive but they can be fierce. A cornered anteater will rear up on its hind legs, using its tail for balance, and lash out with dangerous claws. The giant anteater's claws are some four inches (ten centimeters) long, and the animal can fight off even a puma or jaguar.
Giant Anteater. The largest of the anteaters is Myrmecophaga tridactyla, commonly known as the giant anteater. Not only are giant anteaters the largest of the anteater species, but their snouts are longer and more slender than those of the collared anteaters. The giant anteaters are found in Central and South America. 
The giant anteater (Myrmecophaga tridactyla), also known as the ant bear, is a large insectivorous mammal native to Central and South America. The giant anteater is native to Central and South America. Its known range stretches from Honduras to northern Argentina, and fossil remains have been found as far north as northwestern Sonora, Mexico. It is largely absent from the Andes and has been extirpated in Uruguay.
Anteater is a common name for the four extant mammal species of the suborder Vermilingua (meaning worm tongue) commonly known for eating ants and termites. The individual species have other names in English and other languages. Together with the sloths, they are within the order Pilosa. 