Although Roman numerals came to be written with letters of the Roman alphabet, they were originally independent symbols. The Etruscans, for example, used ğŒ  , ğŒ¡ , ğŒ¢ , â‹” , ğŒš , and âŠ• for I, V, X, L, C, and M, of which only I and X happened to be letters in their alphabet. Roman numerals, the numeric system used in ancient Rome, employs combinations of letters from the Latin alphabet to signify values.
Roman numerals consist of a combination of the I, V, X, L, C, D and M letters. The position of the letters in relationship to each other is what determines the value of the actual Roman numeral. For example: How to Translate Roman Numerals. Roman numerals consist of a combination of the I, V, X, L, C, D and M letters. The position of the letters in relationship to each other is what determines the value of the actual Roman numeral. For example: 1  If smaller numbers follow larger numbers, the numbers are added.
There are a few rules for writing numbers with Roman numerals. 1  Repeating a numeral up to three times represents addition of the number. 2  For example, III represents 1 + 1 + 1 = 3. 3  Only I, X, C, and M can be repeated; V, L, and D cannot be, and there is no need to do so. 
Roman Numerals. Roman numerals are a system of numerical notations used by the Romans. They are an additive (and subtractive) system in which letters are used to denote certain base numbers, and arbitrary numbers are then denoted using combinations of symbols. The number of characters in the Roman numerals for 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, ... (i.e., I, II, III, IV, V, VI, VII, VIII, IX, X, ...) are 1, 2, 3, 2, 1, 2, 3, 4, 2, 1, 2, 3, 4, ... (OEIS A006968). This leads to a scale-invariant fractal-like stairstep pattern which rises in steps then falls abruptly
M is 1,000. You see a lot of Ms because Roman numerals are used a lot to indicate dates. For instance, this page was written in the year of Nova Roma's founding, 1998 CE (Common Era; Christians use AD for Anno Domini, year of our Lord). That year is written as MCMXCVIII. But wait! The big differences between Roman and Arabic numerals (the ones we use today) are that Romans didn't have a symbol for zero, and that numeral placement within a number can sometimes indicate subtraction rather than addition.
In several European countries Roman numerals are used for floor numbering. For instance, apartments in central Amsterdam are indicated as 138-III, with both a Hindu-Arabic numeral (number of the block or house) and a Roman numeral (floor number). Roman numerals, the numeric system used in ancient Rome, employs combinations of letters from the Latin alphabet to signify values.