By convention there are seven continents: Asia, Africa, North America, South America, Europe, Australia, and Antarctica. Some geographers list only six continents, combining Europe and Asia into Eurasia. 
Home World Howmanyarethere 01 April 2011 49888 Views. There are seven 7 continents in the world. Continent means one of the principal land masses of the earth.If you count Europe and Asia continent as one continent (Eurosia) there are 6 continents .There are several number of continents as you can think. List of continents: 1. North America. 2.
The seven continents are: North America, South America, Europe, Asia, Africa, Australia/Oceania, and Antarctica. The United States is located on the continent of North America. Oceans make up most of the world's surface area. 
These six continents are Africa, America, Antarctica, Asia, Australia/Oceania, and Europe. 7 continents. By most standards, there are a maximum of seven continents-Africa, Antarctica, Asia, Australia/Oceania, Europe, North America, and South America. 5 continents. We have been taught in school (way back in the 60's in Europe) that there are five continents, Africa, America, Asia, Australia and Europe, for instance symbolised in the five rings of the Olympic Games. 6 continents. However, there is no standard definition for the number of
There is no standard definition for the number of continents but you will commonly find that the numbers six or seven are used. Many consider there to be seven continents-Africa, Antarctica, Asia, Australia, Europe, North America, and South America. Most students in the United States are taught that there are seven continents. Thus, these six continents are Africa, America, Antarctica, Asia, Australia, and Europe. I am informed that in France, it is not taught that Antarctica is a continent and thus there are five continents for French students. By Matt Rosenberg. A continent is one of several major land masses on the earth.
In Europe and other parts of the world, many students are taught of six continents, where North and South America are combined to form a single continent of America. Thus, these six continents are Africa, America, Antarctica, Asia, Australia, and Europe. I am informed that in France, it is not taught that Antarctica is a continent and thus there are five continents for French students. By Matt Rosenberg. A continent is one of several major land masses on the earth.
Report Abuse. In the world we have 7 Continents and they are North America, South America, Asia, Europe, Antartica, Africa and Oceania. Asia is the biggest and Oceania is the smallest. harji_hps · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. Report Abuse. we have 7; North America, South America, Europe, Asia, Africa, Australia, and Antarctica. Source(s): I learned that in School 3rd grade.
Many scientists now refer to six continents, where Europe and Asia are combined (since they're one solid geologic landmass) as Eurasia. Thus, these six continents are Africa, Antarctica, Australia, Eurasia, North America, and South America. Thus, these six continents are Africa, America, Antarctica, Asia, Australia, and Europe. I am informed that in France, it is not taught that Antarctica is a continent and thus there are five continents for French students. By Matt Rosenberg. A continent is one of several major land masses on the earth.
Map of the Continents. A map showing the world's continents and regions. 5 continents. We have been taught in school (way back in the 60's in Europe) that there are five continents, Africa, America, Asia, Australia and Europe, for instance symbolised in the five rings of the Olympic Games. 6 continents. However, there is no standard definition for the number of continents.