Katharine is a variant spelling of the English name Katherine, which is a variant of the Greek name Aikaterine, whose meaning is unknown. It may be derived from the Goddess Hekate, whose name comes from the Greek word hekas, meaning far away.. Alternatively, the name could stem from the word for torture, aikia.. 5 5. The meaning of Katharine is unknown. Its origin is  Variant of the English name Katherine . Katharine is a form of Katherine and is generally pronounced like  KATH eh rin  and  KATH rin  and  KATH er in  and  kah tah REE neh . This name is mostly being used as a girls name
Hello, Guest. This is the spelling that old-time film star Katharine Hepburn used, and it's still favored by fans wanting to reference her classic strength and beauty. But in general, it's losing ground to Katherine and even Ms. Hepburn's own favorite short form, Kate. 
Origin and meaning [edit]. The name originated from the Greek αἰκατερίνα or αἰκατερίνη (Aikaterina, Aikaterinē), which is of unknown etymology. The earliest known use of the Greek name is in reference to Saint Catherine of Alexandria. Katherine and its variations is a feminine name. It is popular in Christian countries, as it was the name of one of the first Christian saints,
Katherine. Katherine /kath-er-ine/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced KATH-rin, KATH-er-rin. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Katherine is pure. From the word katharos. The name may also have come from Hecate, the name of the Greek goddess of magic. Yet another possible source is Greek aikia, torture
View the Katharine Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Katharine has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Katharine to other names. Katharine is a variant spelling of Katherine. Katharine has the diminutives (nicknames) Kat, Kate, Kath, Kathy, Kay, Khara, Kit, Kitty. Katharine is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 9 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Ka-tha-rine. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 2152 in baby name popularity for girls with 88 occurrences.
Katharine /kath-ar-ine/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name. Katharine's name origin is Greek, and the meaning of the name Katharine is pure. Katharine is a version of Catherine (Greek): from katharos. Katharine is also a form of Katherine (Greek). Katharine is a very prominent first name for women (#661 out of 4276, Top 15%) but an uncommon last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Katharine for girls. Katharine reached its apex rank of #204 in the U.S. in the 1880s, but is not found in the list currently.
Comments and insights on the name Katharine: | Edit. I'm a Katharine, but I've been premanently Katy since the first day of kindergarten to everyone but one great aunt who thinks Katharine is too pretty to waste. I like the double-A's. I haven't met another Katharine. 
Greek Meaning: The name Katharine is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Katharine is: Pure. American Meaning: The name Katharine is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Katharine is: Pure. Latin Meaning: The name Katharine is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Katharine is: Form of the Latin 'Katharina', from the Greek 'Aikaterina'. American actress Katharine Hepburn was born in 1909. Shakespearean Meaning: The name Katharine is a Shakespearean baby name.