Here is a list of infections and the names of the bacterium that commonly cause them (Source: Wikimedia Commons) : Bacterial infections typically present with localized redness and heat, inflammation (swelling) and pain. Bacterial infections tend to present localized pain more frequently than viral infections (not always). Even with a throat infection, a bacterial one will usually have more severe pain on one side of the throat. 
Several different types of bacteria can cause inflammation of the small intestine in patients of all ages. Many cases are caused by accidentally consuming food that is contaminated with Salmonella, Escherichia coli, or listeria. A bacterium called Campylobacter jejuni is responsible for most serious cases of enteritis. Acute cases of small intestine inflammation are almost always curable and short-lived. A doctor can look for the underlying causes of enteritis by screening blood samples for the presence of bacteria, viruses, medications, and different types of food-borne microorganisms.
Rotavirus Infections in Cats. The rotavirus is a double-stranded, wheel-shaped RNA virus which causes inflammation of the intestines and in severe cases, dysfunction in the intestinal walls. This virus is the leading cause of diarrhea and gastrointestinal upset in c
The most common cause of gastroenteritis is viral infection. Viruses such as rotavirus, adenovirus, astrovirus, and calicivirus and small round-structured viruses (SRSVs) are found all over the world. It is frequently referred to as the stomach or intestinal flu, although the influenza virus is not associated with this illness. Major symptoms include nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, and abdominal cramps. These symptoms are sometimes also accompanied by fever and overall weakness.
Gastroenteritis is a catchall term for infection or irritation of the digestive tract, particularly the stomach and intestine. It is frequently referred to as the stomach or intestinal flu, although the influenza virus is not associated with this illness. Major symptoms include nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, and abdominal cramps. These symptoms are sometimes also accompanied by fever and overall weakness.
Gastroenteritis or infectious diarrhea is a medical condition from inflammation (-itis) of the gastrointestinal tract that involves both the stomach (gastro -) and the small intestine (entero -). It causes some combination of diarrhea, vomiting, and abdominal pain and cramping. Viruses (particularly rotavirus) and the bacteria Escherichia coli and Campylobacter species are the primary causes of gastroenteritis. There are, however, many other infectious agents that can cause this syndrome. Non-infectious causes are seen on occasion, but they are less likely than a viral or bacterial cause.
Small intestine inflammation can be caused by many different factors. Most cases result from bacterial or viral infections, and the condition is usually short-lived. Chronic, long-term inflammation of the small intestine can be caused by autoimmune disorders such as Crohn's disease. Acute cases of small intestine inflammation are almost always curable and short-lived. A doctor can look for the underlying causes of enteritis by screening blood samples for the presence of bacteria, viruses, medications, and different types of food-borne microorganisms.
This is called the peritoneum. Inflammation of the peritoneum is called peritonitis. The inflammation is caused by a fungal or bacterial infection, usually due to an injury to your abdomen, an underlying medical condition, or a treatment device, such as a dialysis catheter or feeding tube. Peritonitis is a serious condition that requires immediate medical care.
Viruses, bacteria, parasites, or other pathogens (PAH-tho-jens, microscopic organisms that cause disease) can cause infections in the stomach and small and large intestines, which often lead to gastroenteritis. As the name indicates, intestinal infections affect the gastrointestinal * tract, often causing diarrhea (dye-uh-REE-uh). Gastroenteritis (gas-tro-en-ter-EYE-tis), an inflammation of the stomach and intestines * , frequently accompanies such infections.