The water is modelled using clear and white silicone mastic. A great deal of care was taken to create the falling water using clear silicone mastic mixed where required with a touch of white. A number of ports were created to the back of the layout. The exits were hidden in the waterfall by silicone 'falling water'. Another problem for models is that dust will gradually land on the water and the effect is lost. If the surface is really hard, it is possible to clean this off with a soft brush, but in the end, a new thin gloss coating has to be applied to keep the whole affair looking wet.
There are many ways and materials with which to model water, either still or moving, on your model railroad layout. Understanding the nature of this water, (be it river, stream, pond, ocean, etc.) is essential to getting a grasp on just how you want to go about modeling it, and the material you’ll want to use. 1 Plus, water and the electricity used to run your model railroad don’t mix well. 2  Envirotex – A little bulky to mix, but makes some great looking waves! 3  Casting Resin – Undoubtedly the best-looking finish, but toxic fumes and laborious coats make it only for the most patient craftsmen among us.
For ship model builders such as myself, water base can really make or break a good model. In this article I would like to show you how to produce a realistic sea base for ship model, with rough water surface, surf and wake. 
Our first layout Our second layout Articles Squirrel Valley Roller Coaster Uncouplers Model Water N Scale Signals Deep Rock RR Multi-Throttle Logging Train Backdrops L Frog Switching AbraVille Train links. I've tried, as well as read about, ten different ways of simulating water in model railroad layouts. 
You can make still or flowing water features in any model scale using simple techniques based on dry florist's foam and clear sheet styrene or acrylic. There is no need to use noxious chemicals to create the water effect. Clear styrene sheet is textured with acrylic tar gel medium to make a rippled water surface for a dollhouse scale fish pond with a waterfall. Photo Credit: Photo © 2011 Lesley Shepherd. To create realistic model and miniature water features, you need to get the surface of the water right.
How i made a pond using a acrylic water kit and craft paint that you can buy from Walmart or most craft stores. $8.00 for the kit at walmart. 1  Howto & Style. 2  Standard YouTube License. 
Water. It is best to do this outside in a sunny place. 1. Place the mug in the bottom of the bowl. 2. Add water around the mug so that it come up to 2/3rd of the mug – if you can draw on the bowl mark where the water level is. 3. Cover the bowl tightly in clingfilm and fasten in place with the string. 
Learn more at http://WoodlandScenics.com-Modeling realistic water-Watch Matt and Trevor as they show you how to model realistic water features on your layout. Items Mentioned In This Video: Earth Undercoat (C1228, C1229). Realistic Water (C1211). Water Effects (C1212). 
Water. Learn to model any body of water. Easily add realistic lakes, ponds, waterfalls and rivers to any layout with water products that are safe and thoroughly tested for quality results. 
To create the effect of deeper water in a model scene you can add colored layers of 'water' to the areas of your water feature or pool where you want the illusion of depth. The easiest material to use for this purpose is clear acrylic artist's medium. Clear styrene sheet is textured with acrylic tar gel medium to make a rippled water surface for a dollhouse scale fish pond with a waterfall. Photo Credit: Photo © 2011 Lesley Shepherd. To create realistic model and miniature water features, you need to get the surface of the water right.