Key facts. 1  Avian influenza (AI), commonly called bird flu, is an infectious viral disease of birds. 2  Most avian influenza viruses do not infect humans; however some, such as A(H5N1) and A(H7N9), have caused serious infections in people.
The H5N1 virus is the strain of avian influenza that has infected numerous species of birds in Asia, Europe and Africa since the end of 2003. It has not been found in birds in North or South America, including the Caribbean.
Wild Birds. Which species are affected by avian influenza, where, and how likely it is that the disease would be spread by wild bird migration. Avian influenza is not new. There are many strains of the virus that have probably been carried in the intestines of birds for thousands of years.
Avian influenza refers to infection of birds with avian influenza Type A viruses. These viruses occur naturally among wild aquatic birds worldwide and can infect domestic poultry and other bird and animal species.
A) Avian influenza, also called bird flu, is a disease of birds that is found primarily in wild waterfowl such as ducks, geese and swans. Sometimes, this disease can also spread from wild birds into domestic poultry. There are many strains or types of bird flu.
Avian influenza is a viral disease that can affect bird species throughout the world. The disease can vary from mild to severe, depending on the virus strain involved. The most severe strain, called highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI), is caused by viruses with H5 or H7 surface proteins.
Avian influenza is a viral disease affecting the respiratory, digestive and/or nervous system of many species of birds. Avian influenza virus infection can occur in most, if not all, species of birds, both domestic and wild.
A) No, this type of bird flu has not been found in the United States. Other strains of bird flu are commonly found in wild waterfowl in the United States, but usually affect small numbers of birds and generally do not cause obvious illness. These other types of bird flu are not considered a human health risk.
H5N1 is a highly pathogenic avian (bird) flu virus that has caused serious outbreaks in domestic poultry in parts of Asia and the Middle East. Highly pathogenic refers to the virus’s ability to produce disease.
1 Avian influenza (AI), commonly called bird flu, is an infectious viral disease of birds. 2  Most avian influenza viruses do not infect humans; however some, such as A(H5N1) and A(H7N9), have caused serious infections in people.