Normally a domestic freezer is best set to −18 °C (0 °F) or colder, as that's what the expiration dates for many food items are based on. It's also a requirement for freezers in restaurants, supermarkets & other places that sell food (at least here in Europe) to maintain a temperature of at most -18 °C. 
Best Answer: Safe Refrigerator Temperature For safety, it is important to verify the temperature of the refrigerator. Refrigerators should be set to maintain a temperature of 40 °F or below. An appliance thermometer can be kept in the refrigerator to monitor the temperature. This can be critical in the event of a power outage. When the power goes back on, if the refrigerator is still 40 °F, the food is safe. Foods held at temperatures above 40 °F for more than 2 hours should not be consumed
1 If you do lose power, keep the doors to your fridge and freezer closed as much as possible to keep foods cold. 2  Before using any foods, check your refrigerator and freezer thermometers. 3  If the fridge is still at or below 40 °F, or the food has been above 40 °F for only two hours or less, it should be safe to eat. When it comes to protecting yourself and your family from foodborne illness, one of your most effective tools is the kitchen refrigerator. In fact, at room temperature, the numbers of bacteria that cause foodborne sickness can double every 20 minutes!
Variations in Temperature. Temperatures will fluctuate during a refrigerator's normal operating cycle. A refrigerator set at 38 degrees Fahrenheit may vary to as much as 40 degrees at the highest to 35 degrees at the lowest. Different locations inside the refrigerator may vary in temperature. The inside door is typically the warmest, due in part because of opening and closing the door.
Confidence votes 122. The average recommended temperature for a refrigerator is 35 - 38o F(degrees Fahrenheit) and 1.6-3.3 °C (degrees Celsius). A properly functioning refrigerator should keep food at a Fahrenheit temperature of 40 degrees-which is just about 5 degrees Celsius.
In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40° F (0-4 degrees Celsius). Your freezer must be below 32° F (0° Celsius). I keep mine as cold as it will go. Keep your freezer efficient by half-filling it with bottles of water. 
Confidence votes 262K. Refrigerators help to keep foods fresher for longer. It is important to keep the fridge cold, but not too cold, so that things begin to freeze. The normal temperature should be somewhere between 35 and 38 degrees F depending on your preference. 
Therefore, you want your refrigerator to be cold, but not so cold that it freezes things. The preferred temperature is somewhere between 35 and 38 degrees F (1.7 to 3.3 degrees C). Anything higher and foods will spoil too quickly (it also presents food poisoning problems, as described in several of the links below). 
Air flow is an important component in maintaining the refrigerator temperature. As air circulates, the cold air flows to the lower level and forces the warm air to rise. Do not overcrowd the refrigerator or place a baking sheet on a middle shelf. This will interfere with the air circulation. A refrigerator set at 38 degrees Fahrenheit may vary to as much as 40 degrees at the highest to 35 degrees at the lowest. Different locations inside the refrigerator may vary in temperature. The inside door is typically the warmest, due in part because of opening and closing the door.
1 Fridge: put the thermometer in a glass of water. 2  Check the temperature during the first door opening after not using the fridge for 8 hours or more (such as overnight). 3  Freezer: put thermometer between two bags of vegetables and as above check after 8 hours or more. To measure the temperature: 1 