Hyperhidrosis, or excessive sweating, is a common disorder that produces a lot of unhappiness. An small percentage of Americans suffer from excessive sweating of the underarms (axillary hyperhidrosis) or of the palms and soles of the feet (palmoplantar hyperhidrosis). Underarm problems tend to start around puberty, while palm and sole sweating may begin earlier, often during childhood. Hyperhidrosis facts. 1  Hyperhidrosis, or excessive sweating, is a common disorder. 2  Axillary hyperhidrosis is excess sweating of the underarms. 3  Palmoplantar hyperhidrosis is excess sweating of the palms and soles.
Illnesses such as endocarditis or lymphoma, medications, obesity and low blood sugar are often found to be causes of generalized hyperhidrosis [source: Mayo Clinic ]. After treating the underlying cause, excessive sweating usually goes away. Focal hyperhidrosis is a different story. In this form of hyperhidrosis, excessive sweating is focused in one part of your body -- such as on your palms, the soles of your feet or your underarms -- in which you sweat for no apparent reason. 
1 You're Sloshing in Your Shoes Some people with excessive underarm sweat also have plantar hyperhidrosis, which is excessive sweating of the soles of the feet. 2  When your feet sweat too much, your socks and shoes get wet, leaving you feeling as if you've stepped in a puddle. 1 You Can't Stop Thinking About It When you have underarm hyperhidrosis, many times it's difficult to think about anything else. 2  You worry that others will notice that your shirt is always soaked, thanks to excessive underarm sweat.
An estimated up to 3% of the British population suffers from excessive sweating of the underarms (axillary hyperhidrosis) or of the palms and soles of the feet (palmoplantar hyperhidrosis). 
It's a vicious circle. Stress can cause sweating, and excessive perspiration can cause stress. Relaxation techniques such as yoga, meditation, deep breathing, and biofeedback can help control your triggers and lessen the effects of sweating.
See a Doctor. If excessive sweating causes problems in your life, talk to a doctor about treatments. Botox injections, low-level electrical currents, and some medications can help reduce heavy sweating. Call a doctor right away if you also have fever, weight loss, chest pain, or a rapid heartbeat. Stress can cause sweating, and excessive perspiration can cause stress. Relaxation techniques such as yoga, meditation, deep breathing, and biofeedback can help control your triggers and lessen the effects of sweating.
Some people with excessive underarm sweat also have plantar hyperhidrosis, which is excessive sweating of the soles of the feet. When your feet sweat too much, your socks and shoes get wet, leaving you feeling as if you've stepped in a puddle. 1 You Can't Stop Thinking About It When you have underarm hyperhidrosis, many times it's difficult to think about anything else. 2  You worry that others will notice that your shirt is always soaked, thanks to excessive underarm sweat.
Excessive sweating, or hyperhidrosis, can be a warni ng sign of thyroid problems, diabetes or infection. Excessive sweating is also more common in people who are overweight or out of shape. The good news is that most cases of excessive sweating are harmless. If you are worried about how much you sweat, here's information to help you decide if you should see a doctor for a medical diagnosis.
1 This is due to a medical condition called hyperhidrosis, which affects almost 3 percent of the population — about 8 million Americans. 2  Though excessive underarm sweat isn't serious or life-threatening, it can be embarrassing and make you uncomfortable and anxious. 1 You Can't Stop Thinking About It When you have underarm hyperhidrosis, many times it's difficult to think about anything else. 2  You worry that others will notice that your shirt is always soaked, thanks to excessive underarm sweat.
Localized Sweating: Primary Focal Hyperhidrosis. The most common cause of excessive sweating is called primary focal hyperhidrosis. This form of hyperhidrosis affects about 1% to 3% of the population, and usually starts in childhood or adolescence. 1 | 2 | 3 | 4. Excessive sweating is also more common in people who are overweight or out of shape. The good news is that most cases of excessive sweating are harmless. If you are worried about how much you sweat, here's information to help you decide if you should see a doctor for a medical diagnosis.