For patients with difficult veins, ports can also be used for withdrawing blood for blood tests. A portacath system consists of two parts, the port (reservoir) and the catheter (tube). The port which is a small rounded device made of titanium metal is implanted under the skin in the upper chest area. 
A port-a-cath is an IV (intravenous) catheter that is placed under the skin in a patient who requires frequent administration of chemotherapy, blood transfusions, antibiotics, intravenous feeding, or blood draws. To use the port, the chemotherapy nurse feels the port between her/his fingers, disinfects the skin and inserts a special needle, called a Huber, through the skin and the silicone septum into the reservoir.
A portacath is an implanted venous access device for patients who need frequent or continuous administration of chemotherapy or other long term intravenous therapy. Drugs used for chemotherapy are often irritant to the skin and veins. A portacath consists of a reservoir (the portal) and a tube (the catheter). The reservoir is implanted pocket formed under the skin in the upper chest. The catheter runs in a tunnel under the skin, enters a large vein just above the collar bone and is advanced to the largest vein in the body, adjacent to the heart.
Port-A-Cath is an implanted venous access device, also known as an implanted port, placed completely under the skin. It is used for patients who require frequent or continuous chemotherapy administration. The Port consists of three parts: -The portal: a small chamber sealed with a septum on the top, made of silicone. 
A portacath consists of a reservoir (the portal) and a tube (the catheter). The portal is implanted under the skin in the upper chest. It may appear as a bump under the skin in thin patients, less visible in patients with thicker subcutaneous fat. 
In medicine, a port (or portacath) is a small medical appliance that is installed beneath the skin. A catheter connects the port to a vein. Under the skin, the port has a septum through which drugs can be injected and blood samples can be drawn many times, usually with less discomfort for the patient than a more typical needle stick. Ports are used mostly to treat hematology and oncology patients.
A Port-a-cath is a small medical device inserted beneath the skin. The port is connected to the vein with a use of a catheter. It has a septum where blood samples can be drawn and through which medications can be administered. The Uses. Port-a-cath can be used in a number of ways with cystic fibrosis patients. Here is what a Port-a-cath does for the body: 1  The catheter is used for antibiotic administration.
The Port-a-Cath is a combination of a port and an intravascular device. The intravascular device is inserted in a vein (usually the jugular vein or subclavian vein) and tunneled under the skin of the chest wall. There, a small device is inserted and connected to the venous line. 
Commonly called a port, the term porta-cath is a combination of the words ‘portal’ and ‘catheter’. The ‘port’, or portal, is a small reservoir, about as big as a thimble, with a silicone septum that can be pierced with a needle. To use the port, the chemotherapy nurse feels the port between her/his fingers, disinfects the skin and inserts a special needle, called a Huber, through the skin and the silicone septum into the reservoir.
A portacath is a system which gives simple access to a large blood vessel. The portacath system can be used to deliver fluids, nutrients and medication including chemotherapy directly into the blood stream. There are two parts to the portacath system, the port and the catheter. The port is a small round device made of titanium metal. It has one chamber covered by a plastic membrane. It is through this membrane that a needle will be inserted to deliver the medication or withdraw blood etc