Salmon skin, for example, contains concentrations of omega-3 fatty acids. This is because the salmon’s fat is in the layer just beneath the skin, so when it is cooked with the skin on, the skin soaks up these (healthy) fats. However, all of this information is based on the assumption that the fish was swimming in uncontaminated waters. And, as we all know, this is usually not the case.
1 With so much focus on the amazing omega-3 benefits of salmon, other unique health benefits from salmon may have been inadvertently overlooked. 2  One fascinating new area of health benefits involves the protein and amino acid content of salmon.
When skin is crisped on a grill, it can be tasty and many people enjoy eating it. I usually do not. Also, I tend to discard the skin in canned salmon.The best kind of fish, with the safest skin to eat, when it comes to getting omega-3 fatty acids (necessary for mental and physical health) is probably sardines.
I usually like to remove the skin from fish, such as salmon, after it is cooked because it is a source of potential contaminants. I've seen one study on salmon harvested from the Great Lakes, for example, which showed 50% fewer pesticide residues (including residues from DDT) in skinned versus unskinned salmon.
Healthy Fats. Salmon is rich in omega-3 fatty acids, which may help protect you against heart disease and many other conditions including Alzeheimer’s disease and stroke. A study in the November 2009 issue of the Journal of Cardiovascular Pharmacology noted that omega-3s also have anti-inflammatory effects.
Salmon skin contains omega-3 fatty acids. Jupiterimages/PhotoObjects.net/Getty Images. In addition to its health benefits, salmon is a natural and flavorful source of protein most dogs will enjoy. Salmon skin is dog-approved and people-approved canine food, so please share it freely with your pooch.
Both the skin and fat of fish collect toxins that accumulate in the waters of rivers, streams and oceans. These contaminants can also be found in the flesh of fish but not always at levels as concentrated as they are in the skin and fat. For that reason, eating the skin of the fish is not considered healthy.
In most forms, salmon -- skin included -- is safe for dogs to eat as long as it is properly cooked. If you've grilled salmon and want to share some leftover fish or fish skin with Fido, feel free. Avoid feeding salmon that has been cooked with substances toxic to dogs, such as garlic and onions.