A homocysteine blood test is done to: 1  Help identify vitamin B12 deficiency or folic acid deficiency. 2  Help identify a rare inherited disease (homocystinuria) that causes a deficiency of one of several enzymes needed to convert food to energy. 3  Help determine a cause for otherwise unexplained blood clots. A homocysteine blood test is done to: 1  Help identify vitamin B12 deficiency or folic acid deficiency. 2  But other tests for these deficiencies are available. 3  Help identify a rare inherited disease (homocystinuria) that causes a deficiency of one of several enzymes needed to convert food to energy
The homocysteine test may be used a few different ways: 1  A health practitioner may order a homocysteine test to determine if a person has a vitamin B12 or folate deficiency. 2  The homocysteine concentration may be elevated before B12 and folate tests are abnormal. 1 The homocysteine concentration may be elevated before B12 and folate tests are abnormal. 2  Some health practitioners may recommend homocysteine testing in malnourished individuals, the elderly, who often absorb less vitamin B12 from their diet, and individuals with poor nutrition, such as drug or alcohol addicts.
This test measures levels of homocysteine in your blood. Homocysteine is a type of amino acid your body naturally makes. At high levels, homocysteine can damage the lining of arteries and encourage blood clotting. As a result, high levels may raise your risk for coronary artery disease, heart attacks, blood clots, and strokes.
Homocysteine Blood Test. The Homocysteine Test will measure the level of homocysteine, which is an amino acid, in your blood. A high level of blood serum homocysteine can increase the likelihood of a cardiovascular event, especially combined with other risk factors such as obesity, hypertension, diabetes or smoking
Why It Is Done. A homocysteine blood test is done to: 1  Help identify vitamin B12 deficiency or folic acid deficiency. 2  But other tests for these deficiencies are available. 3  Help identify a rare inherited disease (homocystinuria) that causes a deficiency of one of several enzymes needed to convert food to energy
1 A health practitioner may order a homocysteine test to determine if a person has a vitamin B12 or folate deficiency. 2  The homocysteine concentration may be elevated before B12 and folate tests are abnormal. 1 The homocysteine concentration may be elevated before B12 and folate tests are abnormal. 2  Some health practitioners may recommend homocysteine testing in malnourished individuals, the elderly, who often absorb less vitamin B12 from their diet, and individuals with poor nutrition, such as drug or alcohol addicts.
1 Tests for both a urine and blood homocysteine may be used to help diagnose homocystinuria if a health practitioner suspects that an infant or child may have this inherited disorder. 2  In the U.S., all babies are routinely tested for excess methionine, a sign of homocystinuria, as part of their newborn screening. 1 The homocysteine concentration may be elevated before B12 and folate tests are abnormal. 2  Some health practitioners may recommend homocysteine testing in malnourished individuals, the elderly, who often absorb less vitamin B12 from their diet, and individuals with poor nutrition, such as drug or alcohol addicts.
That is because the body normally converts homocysteine into other products quickly. Since vitamins B6, B12, and folate are necessary to metabolize homocysteine, increased levels of the amino acid may be a sign of deficiency in those vitamins. This test determines the level of homocysteine in the blood and/or urine. Elevated homocysteine may also be related to a higher risk for coronary heart disease, stroke, peripheral vascular disease (fatty deposits in peripheral arteries), and hardening of the arteries (atherosclerosis). 