Covering most of eastern Oregon and extending into Idaho and Washington, is the Columbia Plateau. Thousands of years ago, the Columbia Plateau was formed by lava flowing from cracks in the earth's crust. Oregon's Wheat farms are found on the Columbia Plateau. Many lakes can be found in the Cascade Mountains. Crater Lake is the deepest lake in the United States. It's 1,932 feet deep! In the southwest corner of Oregon are the Klamath
The US state of Oregon is located in the Pacific Northwest region of the United States. It is known for its forest cover, and it is the leading producer of lumber in the country. It is bordered by Washington to the north, California to the south, Nevada to the southeast, Pacific Ocean to the west, and Idaho to the east. Columbia River is the largest river in the Pacific Northwest region of Northern America. It originates in Canada and flows northwest into the US states of Washington and Oregon. Its drainage basin is as big as the size of France
1 Klamath Mountains: Klamath Mountains are located in the southwest corner of Oregon. 2  It is covered by dense forests. 3  Columbia Plateau: Columbia Plateau extends from eastern Oregon to Idaho and Washington. 4  It was created by lava flowing from cracks in the earth's crust. 5  The wheat farm in the country are found here. Columbia River is the largest river in the Pacific Northwest region of Northern America. It originates in Canada and flows northwest into the US states of Washington and Oregon. Its drainage basin is as big as the size of Franc
The Oregon Coast is a region of the U.S. state of Oregon. It runs generally north–south along the Pacific Ocean, forming the western border of the state; the region is bounded to the east by the Oregon Coast Range. The largest city along the Oregon Coast is Coos Bay —population 16,000 —in Coos County on the South Coast. U.S. Route 101 is the primary highway from Astoria to Brookings, and is known for its scenic overlooks of the Pacific Ocean.
Oregon's contrasting physical features are characterized by great forested mountain slopes and treeless basins, rushing rivers and barren playas, lush valleys and extensive wastelands. 
Climate of Oregon. Oregon’s climate can mostly be classified as mild. Two major geographic features dominate the climate in the state: the Pacific Ocean and the Cascade Range. The mountains of the Cascade Range act as a divide between the western and eastern sides of the state. 
In fact, Oregon is the leading provider of lumber in the United States. Oregon's geography can be divided into six areas; the Coast Range, the Willamette Lowland, the Cascade Mountains, the Klamath Mountains, the Columbia Plateau, and the Basin and Range Region. Many lakes can be found in the Cascade Mountains. Crater Lake is the deepest lake in the United States. It's 1,932 feet deep! In the southwest corner of Oregon are the Klamath
On the east, Oregon is bordered by Idaho and on the west, Oregon is bordered by the Pacific Ocean. Total Area. Oregon covers 98,386 square miles, making it the 9th largest of the 50 states. Many lakes can be found in the Cascade Mountains. Crater Lake is the deepest lake in the United States. It's 1,932 feet deep! In the southwest corner of Oregon are the Klamath
Oregon is bordered on the west by the Pacific Ocean, on the north by Washington, on the south by California, on the east by Idaho, and on the southeast by Nevada. The Columbia River delineates much of Oregon's northern boundary, and the Snake River delineates much of the eastern boundary. It is one of only three states of the contiguous United States to have a coastline on the Pacific Ocean. Oregon claims the D River as the shortest river in the world, though the state of Montana makes the same claim of its Roe River. Oregon is also home to Mill Ends Park (in Portland), the smallest park in the world at 452 square inches (0.29 m 2).