Hair follicles forms a cluster of cells in the upper layer of the skin. These cluster of cells are called the primitive hair germ, which needs nourishment to grow into a dev … eloped hair follicle. To get nourishment it works all the way down into the lower layer of the skin. That black bump (which is clear or white in blonde hair) is not the follicle itself but the root of the strand. Think of it as the bulb of a flower. Your hair follicle i … s part of your scalp.
4-6 The arrectores pilorum are bundles of smooth muscle associated with hair follicles. On exposure to cold or under emotion (sympathetic nerves), they elevate the hair in a lever-like manner, and the nearby skin is depressed, whereas the surrounding skin is elevated (goose skin). The follicle is dilated at its base to form the bulb (matrix). In the obtuse angle between the root of a hair and the surface of the skin, a bundle of smooth muscle fibers, known as an arrector pili muscle, is usually found. It extends from the deep part of the hair follicle to the papillary layer of the dermis.
A mechanoreceptor is a sensory receptor that responds to mechanical pressure or distortion. Normally there are four main types in glabrous skin: Pacinian corpuscles, Meissner's corpuscles, Merkel's discs, and Ruffini endings. 
A hair follicle is a mammalian skin organ that produces hair. Hair production occurs in phases, including growth (anagen), cessation (catagen), and rest (telogen) phases. Stem cells are responsible for hair production. The telogen phase is the resting phase of the hair follicle. When the body is subjected to extreme stress, as much as 70 percent of hair can prematurely enter a phase of rest, called the telogen phase. This hair begins to fall, causing a noticeable loss of hair.
hair bulb   The white bump is called the hair bulb. It sits inside the follicle and is the beginning of the hair strand. The hair bulb is where the dead cells that … make up hair are connected with live cells from the body. The follicle is part of your skin so it can't fall out but it can become damaged. Illness, sun damage, repeated waxing or tweezing are the most common reasons for follicle damage. There are three phases in the life of hair, a growing phase, a resting phase, and a loss phase. That black bump (which is clear or white in blonde hair) is not the follicle itself but the root of the strand. Think of it as the bulb of a flower. Your hair follicle i … s part of your scalp.
1 The epidermis is the epithelial tissue layer of skin. 2  Hair follicles, sebaceous glands, and sweat glands are epithelial invaginations from the epidermis. 3  The dermis is the connective tissue layer of skin. 4  Embedded within the dermis are hair follicles and sweat glands as well as blood vessels and sensory nerve endings. 
Layers of skin. Common integument refers to skin and subcutaneous tissue, hair, nails, and breast. The last-named is described with the upper limb. The skin (cutis) provides a waterproof and protective covering for the body, contains sensory nerve endings, and aids in the regulation of temperature. The follicle is dilated at its base to form the bulb (matrix). In the obtuse angle between the root of a hair and the surface of the skin, a bundle of smooth muscle fibers, known as an arrector pili muscle, is usually found. It extends from the deep part of the hair follicle to the papillary layer of the dermis.
The dermis is an inner layer of the scalp that is thick and complex as regards its structure and constituents. In reality this is the place where all hair follicles, nerve endings, sebaceous and sweat glands, and blood capillaries and vessels are found. 
Hair is simple in structure, but has important functions in social functioning. Hair is made of a tough protein called keratin. A hair follicle anchors each hair into the skin. The hair bulb forms the base of the hair follicle. In the hair bulb, living cells divide and grow to build the hair shaft. Blood vessels nourish the cells in the hair bulb, and deliver hormones that modify hair growth and structure at different times of life. 
Dermis. The dermis, the skin's next layer, is a thick layer of fibrous and elastic tissue (made mostly of collagen, elastin, and fibrillin) that gives the skin its flexibility and strength. The dermis contains nerve endings, sweat glands and oil (sebaceous) glands, hair follicles, and blood vessels. The nerve endings sense pain, touch, pressure, and temperature.