Stimulus-response (S-R) is a classical model of psychology about human behaviour and is popularly known as Classical Conditioning. In other words if an association is created between a stimulus and response, everytime there is a stimulus it automatically triggers the associated response. Terms used in Classical Conditioning. Unconditioned Stimulus (US): A stimulus that unconditionally, naturally, and automatically triggers a unlearnt response. Unconditioned Response (UR): A natural, usually unvarying response evoked by a stimulus in the absence of learning or c
Any detectable change in the environment is called a stimulus. Usually, a stimulus is a product of change in an energy source or force, such as light, or sound, or heat. As humans, we detect and respond to stimulus in order to survive. Detection of Stimuli. In order for an organism (such as a plant or an animal) to adjust to a change in the environment, it must first be able to detect (or physically recognize) the change. This detection of a stimulus is called sensitivity.
A tropism is a response that an organism makes to a stimulus. An example of a common tropism in plants is phototropism (or light response). Plants grow towards light sources, and if the direction of light is changed, the plant will also change its direction of growth to accommodate for survival. Detection of Stimuli. In order for an organism (such as a plant or an animal) to adjust to a change in the environment, it must first be able to detect (or physically recognize) the change. This detection of a stimulus is called sensitivity.
The term sign stimulus, or releaser, is used to denote a simple feature of a complex stimulus that can elicit a FAP. For example, the red belly of a male stickleback elicits a head-down, attack behaviour in other male sticklebacks. This same response can be elicited by artificial models or objects that contain the sign stimulus of red, for example, a red coloured card. The terms sign stimulus and releaser are sometimes used interchangeably, however, they have different meanings. The term sign stimulus is used to denote a feature of an animal's environment that elicits a particular response. Other examples include: 1  Some mating dances, commonly carried out by birds, are examples of fixed action patterns. 2  In these cases, the sign stimulus is typically the presence of the opposite sex. 3  Kelp gull chicks are stimulated by a red spot on the mother's beak to peck at the spot, which induces regurgitation.
Conditioned response. Definition. noun. A learned response triggered by a stimulus after conditioning. Supplement. In classical conditioning as first demonstrated by I. Pavlov on dogs, a conditioned response is the learned response through repeated pairing with the unconditioned stimulus. 
Stimulus Organism Response (S-O-R) Model. As you may already have realised, the S-R model is applicable to humans, S-O-R model is like an update to the same and introduces the idea that the organism may choose to respond to the same stimulus in different ways depending upon its state of mind. Terms used in Classical Conditioning. Unconditioned Stimulus (US): A stimulus that unconditionally, naturally, and automatically triggers a unlearnt response. Unconditioned Response (UR): A natural, usually unvarying response evoked by a stimulus in the absence of learning or c
Key Stimuli. Certain innate behaviors can be produced in all individuals of the same species. Usually, these behaviors are triggered by a key stimulus (KS). The key stimulus triggers an innate releasing mechanism (IRM), a sort of middleman, which produces a fixed action pattern (FAP), a definite, constant response. The IRM can be any visual, hormonal, or muscular mechanism that results in the FAP
As per the S-R theory (Classical Conditioning) a particular stimulus triggers a particular response. This is the basis of the Pavlov’s dog experiment where he uses an unconditional stimulus of food to trigger an unconditional response of salivating from dog. Terms used in Classical Conditioning. Unconditioned Stimulus (US): A stimulus that unconditionally, naturally, and automatically triggers a unlearnt response. Unconditioned Response (UR): A natural, usually unvarying response evoked by a stimulus in the absence of learning or c
Stimulus. Definition. noun, plural: stimuli. (1) (physiology) A detectable change in the internal or external environment. (2) (physiology) That which influences or causes a temporary increase of physiological activity or response in the whole organism or in any of its parts. (3) That which can evoke a response or has an influence on a system to act. Supplement. Any of the five senses will respond to a particular stimulus