​Directors beware – unless you are careful to maintain a subsidiary’s independence, the parent company may be liable for the debts of its subsidiary. That is the effect of a recent High Court decision invoking a rarely used provision in the Companies Act. We analyse the judgment and draw some practical advice from it. The Court acknowledged that it is common practice for a parent company to be involved in the management of its subsidiary, including appointing high-level managers to the subsidiary’s board. However, in this case, the level of involvement had been so large as to compromise the subsidiary’s independence.
A subsidiary is a company that is wholly owned or majority controlled by another company, the parent.. Companies form or purchase subsidiaries for various reasons, including expanding business operations and spreading the risk of liability by engaging in new lines of business. Such activities may cause liability issues for the parent, and a stakeholder (creditor or other party affected by the companies' business activities) can sue the parent for using the subsidiary to advance its own interests.
Washington Corporate Law A parent corporation may be liable for its subsidiaries’ obligations when state law supports “piercing the corporate veil”–a legal term of art that means disregarding the liability protection afforded by a limited liability entity such as a corporation or limited liability company. To pierce the corporate veil and find a parent corporation liable for a subsidiary’s debts, the plaintiff suing the parent entity must show that there is an overt intention by the corporation to disregard the corporate entity in order to avoid a duty owed to that plaintiff.
A parent company could be liable for the foreseeable injuries that arise if the nature of the relationship between parent and subsidiary companies establishes that the parent company directly participated in creating conditions that lead to the plaintiff’s injuries. 
1 A parent may be liable for its subsidiary’s activities if the two entities are part of a single business enterprise. 2  An example of common facts to this type of case: the subsidiary and parent have undocumented transfers of funds and the subsidiary does business under the name of the parent entity. To pierce the corporate veil and find a parent corporation liable for a subsidiary’s debts, the plaintiff suing the parent entity must show that there is an overt intention by the corporation to disregard the corporate entity in order to avoid a duty owed to that plaintiff.
Not to be confused with subsidiarity. A subsidiary, subsidiary company or daughter company is a company that is owned or controlled by another company, which is called the parent company, parent, or holding company. The subsidiary can be a company, corporation, or limited liability company. In some cases it is a government or state-owned enterprise. In the United States railroad industry, an operating subsidiary is a company that is a subsidiary but operates with its own identity, locomotives and rolling stock. A parent company does not have to be the larger or more powerful entity; it is possible for the parent company to be smaller than a subsidiary, such as DanJaq, a closely held family company, which controls Eon Productions, the large corporation which manages the James Bond franchise.
The basic rule is that parent corporations will not be liable for acts of their subsidiaries. This default rule is the reason so many conglomerates are structured as a hierarchy of parent and subsidiary corporations. The Supreme Court of the United States emphasized this basic rule in United States v Best Foods : To pierce the corporate veil and find a parent corporation liable for a subsidiary’s debts, the plaintiff suing the parent entity must show that there is an overt intention by the corporation to disregard the corporate entity in order to avoid a duty owed to that plaintiff.
The case is interesting as it establishes the circumstances which may result in a parent company owing a common law duty of care to prevent its subsidiary-a separate legal entity-from causing foreseeable damage to its employees. There was no evidence that Cape Products acted as an agent for Cape Plc or that Cape Products should not be considered as a separate legal entity from its parent company. The Court emphasises that itt is therefore not a case of piercing the corporate veil of Cape Plc.
Also, because a parent company and a subsidiary are separate entities, it is entirely possible for one of them to be involved in legal proceedings, bankruptcy, tax delinquency, indictment, and/or under investigation, while the other is not. A parent company does not have to be the larger or more powerful entity; it is possible for the parent company to be smaller than a subsidiary, such as DanJaq, a closely held family company, which controls Eon Productions, the large corporation which manages the James Bond franchise.