Fast Facts: An Easy-to-Read Series of Publications for the Public. Scleroderma is a group of diseases that affect connective tissue in the body. This tissue supports your skin and internal organs. Scleroderma involves tissue that gets hard or thick. It can also cause swelling or pain in the muscles and joints. Some types of scleroderma lead to hard, tight skin.
Systemic scleroderma (systemic sclerosis) - blood vessels and internal organs are also affected (as well as the skin). The patient may experience fatigue (tiredness), weight loss and muscle pains. A risk factor is something which increases the likelihood of developing a condition or disease.
In this article. Scleroderma is a chronic skin disease, meaning it doesn’t go away. Your doctor can treat your symptoms and help you feel better, though. The problem is with your immune system, which causes your body to make too much of the protein collagen, an important part of your skin.
Scleroderma is an autoimmune, rheumatic, and chronic disease that affects the body by hardening connective tissue. (“Connective tissue” is widespread. It adds strength to organs and other parts of the body.) Connective tissue is made of many kinds of proteins. Among them is collagen of the skin.
Scleroderma facts. 1  Scleroderma is a disease of the connective tissue featuring skin thickening that can involve scarring, blood vessel problems, varying degrees of inflammation, and is associated with an overactive immune system. 2  CREST syndrome is a limited form of systemic sclerosis.
Scleroderma refers to a group of rare chronic autoimmune diseases in which the skin and connective tissues tighten and harden; it is a progressive disease. The skin and connective tissues are fibers that make up the framework that supports the body.
Scleroderma occurs when the body produces and accumulates too much collagen in tissues. Collagen is a fibrous type of protein which makes up the body's connective tissues (including skin). Experts suspect that the body's immune system plays a role in the abnormal production of collagen.