Exporting Translation Memory Data. To export data from the translation memory use the Export Wizard. Data is exported from the translation memory in the form of a Translation Memory Exchange *.tmx or a *. tmx.gz (compressed *.tmx) document. NOTE. When you export data from a translation memory, it does not include access level passwords, language resource templates or recognition settings. Importing this data after you have exported it will not recreate that functionality in SDL Trados Studio.
The export feature allows you to export some or all of the contents of a translation memory to a *.tmx or * . tmz.gz file. You may want to export in order to: Exchange translation memory data with third-parties or between different players in the translation supply chain who may use different product versions. NOTE. When you export data from a translation memory, it does not include access level passwords, language resource templates or recognition settings. Importing this data after you have exported it will not recreate that functionality in SDL Trados Studio.
The process is: translate the document, generate a Word document from the SDL XLIFF file, have the reviewer edit this Word document, and then reimport the document to Trados Studio. Here’s how to do it using the SDL XLIFF Converter for MS Office: 1. Translate the original document in Trados Studio. On the Convert to MS Word tab, click Add, select the target SDL XLIFF file from the target language folder, and click Open. (Note: There is another SDL XLIFF file in the source language folder, but you can’t use this as it doesn’t contain the text that you need.). 5.
You can import data into a translation memory and you can export data from a translation memory into a file. This import or export data includes the translation units and all of their associated fields and values. Translation memory imports and exports are performed in the Translation Memories view. NOTE. When you export data from a translation memory, it does not include access level passwords, language resource templates or recognition settings. Importing this data after you have exported it will not recreate that functionality in SDL Trados Studio.
TRADOStag Documents (*.ttx). SDL Edit Documents (*.itd). To import translation memory data into a translation memory: Click the Translation Memories button in the navigation pane to display the Translation Memories view. Make the translation memory for which you want to import data the active translation memory. Select from the menu bar. The Import Wizard is displayed on the Import Files page. Click Add on the Import Files page, navigate to the location of the document you want to import, select the document and click Open. Repeat these steps to add additional documents. You can only import supported document types. 
When you receive the reviewed file, launch the SDL XLIFF Converter for MS Office to reimport the edited Word document. 8. Click the Import from MS Word tab and Click Add. Again, select the target SDL XLIFF file and click Open. 9. Now click the ... button, select the updated DOCX file and click Open. Then click Import. On the Convert to MS Word tab, click Add, select the target SDL XLIFF file from the target language folder, and click Open. (Note: There is another SDL XLIFF file in the source language folder, but you can’t use this as it doesn’t contain the text that you need.). 5.
The changes are imported into the SDL XLIFF file. When you open the file for review in Studio, you will see the tracked changes and comments. SDL XLIFF Converter. Previously, you had to use the SDL XLIFF Converter to import and export from Studio for review in Word, which I covered in a previous post. 2. On the File menu, point to Batch Tasks and click Export for External Review. 3. The Batch Processing dialog box displays. Click Next. 4. On the Settings screen, select either the top-down or side-by-side layout type (I chose side-by-side), and check that the other settings are as you require.
There are two ways to deal with this problem if you need to import an XLIFF file from another source into Trados Studio: 1  Set the source and target languages in Studio to something in the same language group as the source and target language of the XLIFF file. The problem described here isn't the SDLXLIFF format, it's the bad programming of SDL Trados Studio that causes the languages not to be recognized if sublanguages are not specified and the languages differ from your defaults. However, I do not know if this problem has been addressed by SDL recently.
4. On the Convert to MS Word tab, click Add, select the target SDL XLIFF file from the target language folder, and click Open. (Note: There is another SDL XLIFF file in the source language folder, but you can’t use this as it doesn’t contain the text that you need.). 5. Click Convert. On the Convert to MS Word tab, click Add, select the target SDL XLIFF file from the target language folder, and click Open. (Note: There is another SDL XLIFF file in the source language folder, but you can’t use this as it doesn’t contain the text that you need.). 5