Stereotactic Radiosurgery Overview. Definition: Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) treats brain disorders with a precise delivery of a single, high dose of radiation in a one-day session. Focused radiation beams are delivered to a specific area of the brain to treat abnormalities, tumors or functional disorders. Body radiosurgery is rare. 
Radiosurgery is surgery using radiation, that is, the destruction of precisely selected areas of tissue using ionizing radiation rather than excision with a blade. Like other forms of radiation therapy, it is usually used to treat cancer. The aim of stereotactic radiosurgery is to destroy target tissue while preserving adjacent normal tissue, where fractionated radiotherapy relies on a different sensitivity of the target and the surrounding normal tissue to the total accumulated radiation dose.
Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) is a type of radiation therapy that is very precise and very powerful. Instead of many doses of radiation therapy to treat a problem area, SRS usually consists of a single treatment of a very high dose of radiation in a very focused location. Sometimes, it may consist of a few treatments. The three main kinds of treatments in stereotactic radiosurgery that use different equipment are: 1  Gamma Knife: Close to 200 beams of highly focused gamma radiation are aimed at a target region (i.e. tumor). 2  This is used mostly for small to medium-sized brain and/or head and neck abnormalities.
Stereotactic radiosurgery, or SRS, is a special form of radiation therapy. It is not surgery. Description. Radiation either kills tumor cells directly or interferes with their ability to grow. However, radiation cannot tell the difference between tumor cells and healthy cells—it affects both. 
Watch to learn more about SRS and SBRT treatment. JW Player goes here. Stereotactic Radiosurgery (SRS) and Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy (SBRT) are precise and effective types of radiation therapies that use concentrated radiation beams in high doses to destroy tumors in difficult or hard-to-reach areas. 
Stereotactic Radiosurgery. Sometimes, surgery is not possible to treat a disease due to the location of the problem or the poor health of the patient. Brain tumors, blood vessel issues, and some nervous system conditions are very difficult to address with a scalpel. Stereotactic radiosurgery may be used to treat some of these problems. The three main kinds of treatments in stereotactic radiosurgery that use different equipment are: 1  Gamma Knife: Close to 200 beams of highly focused gamma radiation are aimed at a target region (i.e. tumor). 2  This is used mostly for small to medium-sized brain and/or head and neck abnormalities.
SRS (Stereotactic RadioSurgery) is used to treat conditions involving the brain or spine including (click each for more info): 1  Cancers that start in the brain (gliomas and other primary brain tumors). 2  Cancers that spread to the brain (brain metastases). Irrespective of the similarities between the concepts of stereotactic radiosurgery and fractionated radiotherapy, and although both treatment modalities are reported to have identical outcomes for certain indications, the intent of both approaches is fundamentally different.
Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) is a non-surgical radiation therapy used to treat functional abnormalities and small tumors of the brain. It can deliver precisely-targeted radiation in fewer high-dose treatments than traditional therapy, which can help preserve healthy tissue. 
Stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) uses many precisely focused radiation beams to treat tumors and other problems in the brain, neck and other parts of the body. It is not surgery in the traditional sense because there's no incision. Like other forms of radiation, stereotactic radiosurgery works by damaging the DNA of the targeted cells. The affected cells then lose the ability to reproduce, which causes tumors to shrink. Stereotactic radiosurgery of the brain and spine is typically completed in a single session. Body radiosurgery is used to treat lung, liver, adrenal and other soft tissue tumors, and treatment typically involves multiple sessions