1 English: habitational name from any of various places, the chief of which are in Derbyshire, Essex, Hampshire, Shropshire, Staffordshire, Suffolk, Warwickshire, Worcestershire, and East and South Yorkshire. 2  The place name is from Old English beonet ‘bent grass’ + lēah ‘woodland clearing’. Last name origins & meanings: 1 
Origins of the Bentley Surname. It is quite possible for two people with the Bentley last name to have been given that surname for entirely different reasons. Discovering the country from which your Bentley ancestors originated can often yield additional clues for the meaning of the surname. Keep in mind that it was not unusual for a last name to be altered as an ancestor entered a new country. According to An Etymological Dictionary of Family and Christian Names [page 69], the surname BENTLEY is defined as Local. From bent, and ley, uncultivated ground, a pasture.
Bentley Name Meaning. English: habitational name from any of various places, the chief of which are in Derbyshire, Essex, Hampshire, Shropshire, Staffordshire, Suffolk, Warwickshire, Worcestershire, and East and South Yorkshire.
---------. Although Bentley is currently the name of a car, the name is Old English in origin. It means a clearing covered with bent grass and is thus a place name. Other than being a car name, it is also the name of places in England and a last name. My mom had a brother named Bentley. 
The name was recorded respectively as Benedledge, Benetlea and Benedlage in the Domesday Book of 1086 for Derbyshire, Essex and Yorkshire, and it derives from the Olde English pre 7th Century beonet meaning bent-grass, reeds, rushes, plus leah, a clearing; hence, a clearing overgrown with bent-grass. 
If you are conducting some Bentley family history research then you can view the Bentley coat of arms and the name meaning and origin of the name as well as the meaning of symbols below. 
Bentley Name Meaning. English: habitational name from any of various places, the chief of which are in Derbyshire, Essex, Hampshire, Shropshire, Staffordshire, Suffolk, Warwickshire, Worcestershire, and East and South Yorkshire.
Bentley. The root of the surname Bentley is the Old English beonet, meaning bent grass, and leah, a woodland clearing, hence a clearing overgrown with bent-grass. There were a number of Bentley place-names in England-in Staffordshire, Yorkshire and Derbyshire for example-which could have given rise to the Bentley surname. Bentley showed as Benedledge, Benetlea and Benedlage in the Domesday Book of 1086. The first recorded spelling of the family name was William de Benetlega in the pipe rolls of Derbyshire in 1176. Select Bentley Ancestry. England. The Bentley place-name near Cannock Chase in Staffordshire gave rise to the Bentley family of that name and Bentley Hall.
Bentley Genealogy & History. Bentley is an ancient locational Anglo-Saxon name, referring to one of many towns of the same name in Derbyshire, Essex, Hampshire, Shropshire, Staffordshire, Suffolk, Warwickshire and Yorkshire. The first Bentley record was in Derbyshire in 1176 and spelled de Benetlega. The Bentley motto is viva ut vivas meaning live that you may live. American Bentley genealogy traces back to the original first permanent settlement, Jamestown, in 1607.
Save Name. Last name origins & meanings: 1  English: habitational name from any of various places, the chief of which are in Derbyshire, Essex, Hampshire, Shropshire, Staffordshire, Suffolk, Warwickshire, Worcestershire, and East and South Yorkshire. 2  The place name is from Old English beonet ‘bent grass’ + lēah ‘woodland clearing’.