The first visual arts program launched during the Great Depression, the Public Works of Art Project employed more than 3,000 artists nationwide including 50 in Washington State. It established an important precedent regarding federal government support for the arts and served as a model for later initiatives.
New Deal Arts Funding. As part of the public relief programs of the New Deal, artists, musicians, actors, and writers were employed by the federal government in an array of projects designed to create jobs. These programs started in a small way in 1933 and then became more common after 1935.
Thus was born the Public Works of Art Project (PWAP), which in roughly the first four months of 1934 hired 3,749 artists and produced 15,663 paintings, murals, prints, crafts and sculptures for government buildings around the country.
Among those chosen was “The Timber Bucker,” a painting by Seattle artists Ernest Norling, which depicted life in the state’s CCC Camps. Other works, not sent to Washington D.C., went on exhibit at the Seattle Art Museum during the spring and summer of 1934.
Celebrating the People. Visual artists, writers, filmmakers, and playwrights concentrated many of their creative efforts on the patterns of everyday life, especially the world of work. A recurring theme was the strength and dignity of common men and women, even as they faced difficult circumstances.
In 2000, Nike was invited by the Federal Government of Nigeria to supply all the textile materials, which she designed for the Nigerian pavilion at the Expo 2000 in Hanover, German. Her art works were also on display during that Expo 2000 in Hanover, Germany.
Welcome to the Artist's Room of the Cultural Museum. The WPA Federal Art Project By Jerry Wilkinson-INTRODUCTION-In the 1930s, the Great Depression had every U.S. family in its grasp.
Actually there had been two President Franklin Roosevelt government sponsored art projects before the August 29, 1935 inaugurated FAP. They were the Section of Painting and Sculpture and the Public Works of Art operated by the U.S. Department of Treasury.
In fact, in the 1930s the federal government treated artists as workers. The federal government through the New Deal programs of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt hired artists to create art. That act alone showed an incredibly different approach to artists.
This painting, The Timber Bucker, is one of a series documenting life in Civilian Conservation Corps (CCC) camps completed by Washington State artist Ernest Norling for the Public Works of Art Project (PWAP) during the Great Depression.