A lymphocyte is a type of white blood cell. White blood cells are part of your immune system and help your body fight off diseases, including infections and cancer. There are two main types of lymphocytes – B cells and T cells. B cells make antibodies that attack bacteria and toxins in the body.
Lymphocytes. A lymphocyte is a type of white blood cell that is part of the immune system. There are two main types of lymphocytes: B cells and T cells. The B cells produce antibodies that are used to attack invading bacteria, viruses, and toxins.
Lymphocytes. Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell generated by the immune system to defend the body against cancerous cells, pathogens, and foreign matter. Lymphocytes circulate in blood and lymph fluid and are found in body tissues including the spleen, thymus, bone marrow, lymph nodes, tonsils, and liver.
Lymphocytosis (lim-foe-sie-TOE-sis), or a high lymphocyte count, is an increase in white blood cells called lymphocytes (LIM-foe-sites). Lymphocytes are an important part of the immune system. They help fight off diseases, so it's normal to see a temporary rise in the number of lymphocytes after an infection.
81 Followers. A. A lymphocyte is a type of white blood cell. White blood cells are part of your immune system and help your body fight off diseases, including infections and cancer. There are two main types of lymphocytes – B cells and T cells. B cells make antibodies that attack bacteria and toxins in the body.
Two types of lymphocyte are produced in the bone marrow before birth. A large number of lymphocytes can be found in the lymph nodes. Tuberculosis may cause a low lymphocyte count. Lymphocytes are found in the blood, and help defend the body against infection.
Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell, which are an important part of the immune system. Lymphocytes can defend the body against infection because they can distinguish the body’s own cells from foreign ones. Once they recognize foreign material in the body, they produce chemicals to destroy that material.