This confusion is one of the reasons I have decided to call the non-broad-breasted turkeys Historical. The Standard's weights for adult Bronze turkeys are 36 pounds for toms and 20 pounds for hens. Today's Broad Breasted toms and hens usually weigh much more. The Bronze name was first used in the 1830's for birds developed in Point Judith, Rhode Island. These birds were developed by crossing Narragansetts with wild turkeys in the area. From this strain, the Bronze variety was recognized and described in the first American Standard of Perfection in 1871.
The Broad Breasted Bronze Turkey was first created by crossing the Eastern Wild Turkey and different breeds of domestic turkeys brought over by colonists from Europe. The Broad Breasted Bronze Turkey changed dramatically during the 19th century since being recognized by the APA in 1874. The bird was crossed with larger and broader breasted turkeys brought to Canada and America from England and has since been bred to enhance meat production and growth rate. Now, the Broad Breasted Bronze Turkey has greatly reduced in numbers and had decreased in general availability, but it is still an excellent choice for an efficient farmer looking to raise large quantities of commercial quality meat turkeys.
Raising Heritage Breeds is more costly and time consuming than raising White Breasted Toms. While supermarket turkeys grow to an average of 32 pounds over 18 weeks, Heritage birds take anywhere from 24-30 to reach their market weight. But those who have tasted Heritage Breeds say the cost-and the wait-are well worth it. 
The Bronze variety is stately and imposing in appearance. The standard weight for young toms is 25 pounds and for young hens is 16 pounds. Since, however, the Standard Bronze has not been selected for production attributes, including weight gain for years; so many birds may be smaller than the standard. For this reason, most Broad Breasted Bronze turkeys have been artificially inseminated since the 1960s. Beginning in the 1960s the Broad Breasted Bronze was replaced by the Broad Breasted White turkey. Processors favored the white-feathered variety because it produced a cleaner looking carcass.
The average lifespan for a domesticated turkey is ten years. The great majority of domesticated turkeys are bred to have white feathers because their pin feathers are less visible when the carcass is dressed, although brown or bronze-feathered varieties are also raised. The domesticated turkey (Meleagris gallopavo) is a large poultry bird, one of the two species in the genus Meleagris and the same as the wild turkey. It was domesticated by the indigenous peoples of Mesoamerica at least 2,000 years ago, with the evidence pointing to what are today the central regions of Mexico.
All commercial turkey varieties produce meat efficiently. Hens commonly reach a live weight of 15 pounds at 14 weeks of age, and toms weigh about 28 to 30 pounds at 17 to 18 weeks. The table below shows the expected average weights and cumulative feed consumptions of tom and hen turkeys at various ages. 
The usual lifespan for a turkey is 10 years, and pure breed turkeys take approximately 4-5 months to grow to full size. The hen turkeys take 16 weeks to mature completely, and average 3.6 kg (8 lb) to 7.2 kg (16 lbs) in weight. The tom turkey takes approximately 19 weeks to mature and weighs between 7.2 kg (16 lbs) and 10.8 kg (24 lbs).
An Unimproved Bronze tom. Text from the 1998 SPPA Turkey Census Report. Used with permission. The Bronze name was first used in the 1830's for birds developed in Point Judith, Rhode Island. These birds were developed by crossing Narragansetts with wild turkeys in the area. From this strain, the Bronze variety was recognized and described in the first American Standard of Perfection in 1871.
Originally Posted by leoismydog. OK so i see all these post about turkey size but what is the average dressed weight of the differant types of turkeys. i beleive all the below weights or live weights, please correct me if im wrong. At least thats what im assuming them to be. Beltsvill small weights Toms 20 lbs Hens 12 lbs. Standard Bronze Tom 36 lbs Hen 20 Lbs. All stolen directly off of steves website. Thanks Steve. As a side note when do you expect to have eggs or birds ready for sale i would like to be on the list, or start it for that matter.