For the purpose of this discussion we will look at a standard duplex containing four dwellings 900 square feet each. This translates to more than 4000 square feet of construction, and assumes a footprint of approximately 30'x60' for the building. 
The general costs of building construction can vary between 250 per square metre and 470 or more per square metre depending on the building design and quality of materials used. Construction Material Price Cement per bag (Portland) D280 Corrugated I.S(0.14mm) a packet D1,475 Corrugated iron sheets I.S (0.16mm) pkt. Do not rely on the information on this page to make any property decisions in Gambia. The information above is only intended as a general guide and you should check for yourself.
Welcome to Building-Cost.net. In about 5 minutes you can develop a home construction or replacement cost that considers all the important variables: materials used, design features, quality, size, shape, heating, cooling and geographic area. Your printed estimate shows detailed labor and material costs for each of 34 construction cost categories. 
Company Information : Founded in 1999, BATIMAT quickly imposed itself in The Gambian market as the bench mark in terms of quality and innovation. The showroom today extends to 900 m2 and a storage facility of 10.000 m2 for steel products and all our building merchandise. Batimat is Gambias largest building and construction materials company. It operates through several main divisions; such as, building products, cement, construction materials and construction related businesses.
The Habitech International Building System can easily be put in place by unskilled labour. Creates Jobs Generating Income and Revenues. - Interlocking Building System-Low-cost Construction-Low-cost Housing-Low-cost materials-Sustainable Green technologies-Creates Jobs Generating Income. 
Building Materials. Estimating Calculator. The Material Estimator is designed for contractors, trades people and estimating professionals who need to estimate materials and costs for concrete, fences, decks, bricks, tile, flooring, gravel, painting, drywall and paneling and more.
How much a house costs, how it looks, how comfortable it is, how energy-efficient it is--all these things occur on paper before you pick up even one tool. A little additional time in the planning stage can save you tens of thousands of dollars in construction and maintenance. That is time well spent. 
Building Homes in the Gambia. Here at Gambia Builders we have all the resources for building a home in the Gambia. When buying your land it is imperative to use a registered estate agent (contact us we can supply a list). 1  Don't be fooled into false ownership, we can give expert advice. Emergency flooding and flood services in Gambia. You must also bore a hole for a well for water. Building Boundary Fence, Foundations, and a Well is required by Gambia Law by two years from date of ownership, otherwise the state can take the land. When you have adhered to the above, you have all the time in the world to decide on the construction of your Gambia home. Drainage Gambia. We unblock drains in Gambia