Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The process to file a life insurance claim varies between companies. The law varies between states on how long a life insurance company must pay. It make take a month or two months. 
The application and approval times vary depending on how much information you give the company. For example, some applications require a medical exam, while others don’t. Keep in mind that the more the insurance company knows about you, the lower the cost of insurance. (i.e. When you apply for a traditionally underwritten policy, where a medical exam will be completed, you could have the policy in your hands and effective approximately 2 weeks from the day you first apply, IF no medical records are needed. Quickest Example Timeline Possible. 1  Application – 1 day.
When most people think of how long the life insurance underwriting process takes, they probably picture some poor guy behind a desks with stacks of files and life insurance applications collecting dust behind him. This is where things can really vary from carrier to carrier and depending on your health and dollar amount of term life coverage. As a rule of thumb, the larger your amount of term life insurance coverage, the longer this last step will take.
If you're wondering how long it takes, let's take a look. When getting life insurance coverage, first realize that you have two different routes you can go. You can get a traditional term policy that is fully underwritten, meaning that you're going to get a medical exam, or you can go the non-medical approach. We'll take a look at both of these and see how long the process actually takes.
Switching from permanent to term life insurance. Depending on your age and how long you expect to need life insurance coverage, you may want to consider switching to a term policy. Check the cancellation policy on your current coverage before making a change. Switching insurers. You may be able to get similar or better coverage for less money. 
If the approval is quick again and I get a policy out to you quickly, the often it will take people a few weeks to look over the policy. Nothing wrong with that. Everyone is looking for the fine print even though there isn’t any. Truth be told though, a term life insurance policy is about a half hour read. I would have that policy in your hands usually within a week to 10 days, so 18 days from saying go you have a policy in hand. With the magic of eft and scanned documents you can put the policy in force immediately, so best case start to finish is about 3 weeks.
President, Newbury Inc., Evansville, Indiana. With simplified issue life insurance you get your approval right when you do the application with many companies. This is the type of whole-life insurance that many seniors over age 50 purchase on amounts of $25,000 or less. So one to two months would be average for fully-underwritten life insurance. And for simplified issue it could be right within the meeting with your insurance agent. The more extensive underwriting will usually get you a better rate per thousand if you are healthy and buying more than $25,000 of coverage.
1 Policy Issue – Your policy may be approved and issued within 2 days of your phone history interview. 2  Your policy is then mailed you, which may take 2-3 more days. 3  In most cases, your policy will have a couple “delivery requirements” that may need to be signed and sent back, such as a policy delivery receipt. When you apply for a traditionally underwritten policy, where a medical exam will be completed, you could have the policy in your hands and effective approximately 2 weeks from the day you first apply, IF no medical records are needed. Quickest Example Timeline Possible. 1  Application – 1 day.
A life insurance policy loan involves minimum paperwork to get started. Most of the time, your life insurance policy will have a section that defines exactly when and how you can borrow against your policy. Some policies allow you to borrow up to 90% of the cash value of your policy. It usually amounts to a simple form that you fill out and then submit back to the company. Even if it means that you have to borrow against your life insurance policy, it is still to your advantage. Easier Approval. Getting a personal loan from a traditional lender comes with a lot of background checks, credit checks, and income verification. A life insurance policy loan is a lot easier to come by.
The process I just described for you can take anywhere from 4-6 weeks — sometimes longer, sometimes shorter. It all depends on how quickly you get your life insurance medical exam and what they find on your medical records. You can get a traditional term policy that is fully underwritten, meaning that you're going to get a medical exam, or you can go the non-medical approach. We'll take a look at both of these and see how long the process actually takes.