In its last edition it told its readers: During the early years of the Gold Rush, men traveled alone to California. Few women arrived during the early years--for example, only 700 in 1849. In 1850, women made up only 8 percent of California's population. In mining areas, they made up less than 2 percent. The gold rush transformed California from a sleepy society into one that was wild, unruly, ethnically-diverse, and violent. 
Miners extracted more than 750,000 pounds of gold during the California Gold Rush. Just days after Marshall’s discovery at Sutter’s Mill, the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo was signed, ending the Mexican-American War and leaving California in the hands of the United States. As news spread of the discovery, thousands of prospective gold miners traveled by sea or over land to San Francisco and the surrounding area; by the end of 1849, the non-native population of the California territory was some 100,000 (compared with the pre-1848 figure of less than 1,000).
Some failed, some were successful, but nearly all of the prospectors faced severe hardships during their fortune-hunting days. Today, 165 years after that first discovery check out eight facts you may not know about the California Gold Rush. 1. California did not have the first gold rush in American history. That honor actually belongs to North Carolina. Fifty years before gold was discovered at Sutter’s mill, the first gold rush in American history got underway after a 17-pound gold nugget was found in Cabarrus County, North Carolina. 
Charles Drayton Gibbes, A New Map of the Gold. Region in California, 1851, Harvard Map Collection. The great California gold rush began on January 24, 1848, when James W. Marshall discovered a gold nugget in the American River while constructing a sawmill for John Sutter, a Sacramento agriculturalist. In addition to massive emigration from the eastern US, the California gold rush triggered a global emigration of ambitious fortune-seekers from China, Germany, Chile, Mexico, Ireland, Turkey, and France.
The first gold rush in Australia began in May 1851 after prospector Edward Hargraves claimed to have discovered payable gold near Orange, at a site he called Ophir. Hargraves had been to the Californian goldfields and had learned new gold prospecting techniques such as panning and cradling. The Australian gold rushes were periods of significant immigration of workers, both more locally and from overseas, to areas which had discoveries of gold deposits. A number of gold finds occurred in Australia prior to 1851, but only the gold found from 1851 onwards created gold rushes.
The gold rush began at Sutter's Mill in Colima, CA. John Marshall discovered gold in the traces of the mill in 1848. Once the gold was discovered the rush was on. A newspaper … headline stated Eureka, Gold Found. The first to hear confirmed in … formation of the gold rush were the people in Oregon, the Sandwich Islands (Hawaii), and Latin America, who were the first to start flocking to the state in late 1848. All in all, the news of gold brought some 300,000 people to California from the rest of the United States and abroad.
One of the most monumental events in the history of the United States was the Californian Gold Rush. It played a huge impact on populations in California and the surrounding areas. It was the discovery of gold by James Marshall in Coloma in 1848 that started the whole thing. 
The Klondike Gold Rush was a migration by an estimated 100,000 prospectors to the Klondike region of the Yukon in north-western Canada between 1896 and 1899. Only a handful of the 100,000 people who left for the Klondike during the gold rush became rich. They typically spent $1,000 ($27,000) each reaching the region, which when combined exceeded what was produced from the gold fields between 1897 and 1901.