1 Re-plastering the interior surface of an average residential in-ground pool (10,000-20,000 gallons or 14'x28' to 16'x32' and 3.5'-5' deep) with standard white plaster or marble-dust plaster (marcite) typically costs $2,500-$5,500, depending on the size, depth and shape of the pool, and local rates.
1 A complete pool upgrade, including refinishing the interior surface, replacing the waterline tile and decking, and fixing any plumbing or electrical problems can cost $8,000-$22,000 or more, depending on size, local rates and what exactly needs to be done.
Pool deck resurfacing is a service offered by pool, landscaping, paving companies as a way to restore the look and feel of your pool area. During the summer months, a pool in your backyard is a huge asset to your home and is a great place to cool off and relax.
Resurfacing your pool deck is an economical way to get a new look for your deck without the cost and inconvenience of replacement. Pool deck resurfacing can be more than just patch and repairing concrete. Many colors, patterns and textures are possible to create a unique decorative finish for your concrete pool deck.
1 On average, the average pool resurfacing job is going to cost anywhere from $4 to as much as $9 per square foot. 2  The price of resurfacing would also depend on the type of cement, upgraded plaster, stone or pebbles that you will use, as they may be more expensive than the usual plaster.
Pool deck resurfacing is when your pool deck gets resurfaced and touched to keep it looking new and remove any defects it may have acquired over the years. This service is specifically rendered to outdoor pool areas that have concrete flooring already installed and just needs to be retouched.
1 Resurfacing with a pebble or quartz aggregate finish (like PebbleTec or Diamond Brite can cost $3,500-$8,500 for a rough finish or about $5,000-$10,000 for a polished finish, depending on the style and color.
The costs of pool deck resurfacing will depend on the size of the pool deck, the material used, the company you choose, and other factors. 1  On average, the average pool resurfacing job is going to cost anywhere from $4 to as much as $9 per square foot.
Taking the time to resurface a concrete pool deck will instantly bring a renewed and enhanced sense of beauty to your backyard and the costs for resurfacing are far less than the costs of replacing old concrete pool decks with new concrete.