Fracking is neither new nor inherently more dangerous than other forms of mineral extraction. And, on a parochial note, on-shore drilling for oil and gas is not new to the UK: more than 2,000 wells have been drilled, with the first in 1902.
1. Unfortunately for all the pros that hydraulic fracturing offers a community there are plenty of cons as well. The list of cons includes, pollution from the fracking process that can contaminate ground water.
The process of fracking creates fractures that extend from wells into oil and gas formations by pumping highly-pressurized fluid--water, sand, ceramic beads, and a mixture of chemicals--into the oil or gas formation.
1. The emissions that are brought by hydraulic fracturing may caused not only water pollution but also air pollution. Many chemicals that are spread in the environment may cause polluted air and water that is harmful to the health of the people. 2.
Pros and cons of fracking. There has been much debate recently about the advisability or otherwise of drilling for oil or gas deposits in shale using the technique popularly known as fracking (more properly called hydraulic fracturing).
Hydraulic fracturing, or “fracking” , is the process of drilling and injecting fluid into the ground at a high pressure in order to fracture shale rocks to release natural gas inside. There are more than 500,000 active natural gas wells in the US.
2. Hydraulic fracturing requires big amount of water to be consumed in the process of converting fossil fuels into energy. 3. All the chemicals that this hydraulic fracturing is releasing in the environment are harmful to the health especially for those people who are sensitive with chemicals found in the air and water.
By Jacob Wheeler. Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, is an innovative and cost-saving process for drilling oil and gas from rock formations far underground, and is a booming industry in Michigan. Proponents say fracking is safe and note its positive impact on the state economy.
Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, is an innovative and cost-saving process for drilling oil and gas from rock formations far underground, and is a booming industry in Michigan.
Hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, has gained popularity over recent years, and given the controversy over this practice, new research decided to lay out some of its environmental pros as well as cons.