A CEA test may be used in combination with other tumor markers in the evaluation of cancer. Not all cancers produce CEA, and a positive CEA test is not always due to cancer. Therefore, CEA is not recommended for screening the general population. 1 It may also be used as a marker for medullary thyroid cancer and cancers of the rectum, lung, breast, liver, pancreas, stomach, and ovaries. 2  An initial CEA test is typically ordered prior to treatment as a baseline value.
Benign disease does not usually cause a CEA increase over 10 ng/ml. The main use of CEA is as a tumor marker, especially with intestinal cancer. The most common cancers that elevate CEA are in the colon and rectum. Others: cancer of the pancreas, stomach, breast, lung, and certain types of thyroid and ovarian cancer. CEA is tested in blood. The normal range is. Benign conditions that can increase CEA include smoking, infection, inflammatory bowel disease, pancreatitis, cirrhosis of the liver, and some benign tumors (in the same organs which have cancers with increased CEA).
Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) is a tumor marker that is measured using a blood test. High levels of CEA may indicate that cancer has spread; however, other medical conditions and some treatments, including certain types of chemotherapy, may raise CEA levels. A tumor marker is a substance found in a person's blood, urine, or the tumor itself. It is produced by the tumor or the body in response to cancer, or a noncancerous condition, such as inflammation.
The CEA test may be used: 1  To monitor the treatment of people diagnosed with colon cancer. 2  It may also be used as a marker for medullary thyroid cancer and cancers of the rectum, lung, breast, liver, pancreas, stomach, and ovaries. 3  An initial CEA test is typically ordered prior to treatment as a baseline value. 1 It may also be used as a marker for medullary thyroid cancer and cancers of the rectum, lung, breast, liver, pancreas, stomach, and ovaries. 2  An initial CEA test is typically ordered prior to treatment as a baseline value.
Carcinoembryonic Antigen (CEA). Guide. The carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) test measures the amount of this protein that may appear in the blood of some people who have certain kinds of cancers, especially cancer of the large intestine (colon and rectal cancer). It may also be present in people with cancer of the pancreas, breast, ovary, or lung. The carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) test is used to: 1  Find how widespread cancer is for some types of the disease, especially colon cancer. 2  Check the success of treatment for
In adults, CEA may be a possible sign of cancer. The CEA test is performed to monitor the severity of cancer or tumors in the patients. The values obtained after the CEA test indicates the response of body to the therapy. So, CEA values are used as a marker mainly for colon cancer. They are also used for breast cancer, lung cancer, stomach cancers, and liver cancer. CEA is a marker which is indicative of cancer, but not all cancers produce this protein. It is important to note that a test that is positive for CEA may not always be indicative of cancers. It is due to this reason that this test is not used to screen for cancers.
Tumor marker, CEA: Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) is a protein found in many types of cells but associated with tumors and the developing fetus. CEA is tested in blood. The normal range is. Benign conditions that can increase CEA include smoking, infection, inflammatory bowel disease, pancreatitis, cirrhosis of the liver, and some benign tumors (in the same organs which have cancers with increased CEA).
1 To monitor the treatment of people diagnosed with colon cancer. 2  It may also be used as a marker for medullary thyroid cancer and cancers of the rectum, lung, breast, liver, pancreas, stomach, and ovaries. 3  An initial CEA test is typically ordered prior to treatment as a baseline value. 1 It may also be used as a marker for medullary thyroid cancer and cancers of the rectum, lung, breast, liver, pancreas, stomach, and ovaries. 2  An initial CEA test is typically ordered prior to treatment as a baseline value.
The best use of CEA is as a tumor marker, especially for cancers of the gastrointestinal tract. When the CEA level is abnormally high before surgery or other treatment, it is expected to fall to normal following successful surgery to remove all of the cancer. CEA is a type of glycoprotein molecule that is produced by cells of the gastrointestinal tract during embryonic development. It is produced in very small amounts after birth. The level of CEA in the bloodstream is thus relatively low unless certain diseases-including certain forms of cancer-are present.