An operational definitionA definition of a variable or construct in terms of precisely how it will be measured. is a definition of a variable in terms of precisely how it is to be measured. These measures generally fall into one of three broad categories.
Operational Definitions. An operational definition is a detailed specification of how one would go about measuring a given variable. Operational definitions can range from very simple and straightforward to quite complex, depending on the nature of the variable and the needs of the researcher.
Apart from the questions of whether operational definitions are sufficient or necessary, it is actually unclear what types of things operations are, and how they should be specified. The surface-level intuition is simple: the operations that matter are measurement operations involving physical instruments.
The operational definition of an empirical term (i.e., a descriptor of some element of physical experience) is the description of a specific process, or set of validation tests, accessible to more persons than the definer (i.e., said to be publicly accessible), whereby it is (or can be) repeatedly measured or tested.
Operational definition. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. An operational definition is a result of the process of operationalization and is used to define something (e.g. a variable, term, or object) in terms of a process (or set of validation tests) needed to determine its existence, duration, and quantity.
Therefore, weight of an object labels an operational definition which is a nonspecific process.) But an historical event (e.g., the process of taking my weight last Tuesday) cannot be an operational definition because it cannot be repeated.
An example of operational definition of the term weight of an object, operationalized to a degree, would be the following: weight is the numbers that appear when that object is placed on a weighing scale .
2. One can use any operational definitions but should use operational definitions similar to those in use and which are consistent with historical reference avoids initial struggle. 3. What about brave = leaving the house in the morning without a cup of coffee.