The main function of ribosomes is to make up 25% of the dry weight of cells (e.g., pancreas cells) that specialize in protein synthesis. Ribosomes are used in the synthesis of proteins and enzymes required by the cells for various purposes. Most of our cellular chemical reactions are enhanced (catalyzed) by enzymes, in order for the cells to function properly. Ribosomes make proteins for use in the cell and for export.
The primary function of Ribosomes is to read and translate the cell's genetic code, then reproduce (replicate) the proteins that the code represents. Without the ribosomes this coded message could not be read or replicated. Ribosomes are used in the synthesis of proteins and enzymes required by the cells for various purposes. Most of our cellular chemical reactions are enhanced (catalyzed) by enzymes, in order for the cells to function properly. Ribosomes make proteins for use in the cell and for export.
They are complexes of proteins and three (prokaryotes) or four (eukaryotes) rRNA molecules called subunits. The main function of ribosomes is as the site of mRNA translation; once the two subunits are joined by the mRNA from the nucleus, the ribosome translates mRNA into a specific sequence of amino acids. There are two types of Ribosomes: free and bound
The ribosome (/ˈraɪbɵˌzoʊm/) is a large and complex molecular machine, found within all living cells, that serves as the site of biological protein synthesis (translation). Ribosomes link amino acids together in the order specified by messenger RNA (mRNA) molecules. 
Related Information: They do this by translating messenger RNA (mRNA) into proteins. Messenger RNA is simply a copy of the DNA from the nucleus that is allowed to enter the cytoplasm and be used to make proteins. Ribosomes are the sites of protein synthesis, where RNA is translated into protein. When cells need large numbers of proteins, they must first build numerous ribosomes. Because protein synthesis is so important to cells, there are large numbers of ribosomes in all cells, often numbering in the hundreds or thousands. Ribosomes are used in the synthesis of proteins and enzymes required by the cells for various purposes. Most of our cellular chemical reactions are enhanced (catalyzed) by enzymes, in order for the cells to function properly. Ribosomes make proteins for use in the cell and for export.
Best Answer: Ribosomes are non-membrane-bounded particles where protein synthesis occurs. The number of ribosomes in a cell varies depending on its functions. For example, pancreatic cells and those of other glands have many ribosomes because they produce secretions that contain proteins. The main function of ribosomes is as the site of mRNA translation; once the two subunits are joined by the mRNA from the nucleus, the ribosome translates mRNA into a specific sequence of amino acids.
Free ribosomes freely float in the cytoplasm of the cell and the membrane-bound ribosomes bind to the nuclear membrane or to the endoplasmic reticulum. Ribosome function is vital for the production of proteins, or polypeptide chains, from the mRNA. A ribosome is an internal component of a biological cell (known as organelles) that is responsible in assembling molecules of specific amino acid to form a certain protein molecule, which will be determined by the nucleotide sequence of an RNA molecule.
Ribosomes are the tiny organelles inside cells which are responsible for protein synthesis. Which means it creates the protein in the cell. Ribosomes are part of the cellular machinery that are involved in production of proteins. They are located in the final stage known as Translation. Related Information: They do this by translating messenger RNA (mRNA) into proteins. Messenger RNA is simply a copy of the DNA from the nucleus that is allowed to enter the cytoplasm and be used to make proteins. Ribosomes are the sites of protein synthesis, where RNA is translated into protein. When cells need large numbers of proteins, they must first build numerous ribosomes
Ribosomes are small structures within biological cells that function in protein synthesis. Proteins are essential for a huge range of activities within an organism, from catalyzing metabolic reactions and protecting against infection to providing shape and structure. 