Bupropion is known to affect several different biological targets, and its mechanism of action is only partly understood. It has been widely described in the literature as a weak norepinephrine-dopamine reuptake inhibitor (NDRI). The next most common use is as an aid for smoking cessation where it reduces the severity of nicotine cravings and withdrawal symptoms. A typical bupropion treatment course lasts for seven to twelve weeks, with the patient halting the use of tobacco about ten days into the course.
DRUG DESCRIPTION. WELLBUTRIN (bupropion hydrochloride), an antidepressant of the aminoketone class, is chemically unrelated to tricyclic, tetracyclic, selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitor, or other known antidepressant agents. Its structure closely resembles that of diethylpropion; it is related to phenylethylamines
Bupropion hydrochloride sustained-release is a prescription antidepressant medication. It is used to reduce the symptoms of depression in adults by increasing certain brain activity. Speak to your doctor if you believe that you might be a good candidate for treatment with bupropion hydrochloride sustained-release. 1  Prev. Bupropion hydrochloride sustained-release interacts with many different medications. Additionally, if you are taking bupropion hydrochloride sustained-release, you should not drink alcohol, as it can increase your risk of seizure.
Bupropion or bupropion hydrochloride, also known formerly as amfebutamone, is a medication primarily used as an antidepressant and smoking cessation aid. The next most common use is as an aid for smoking cessation where it reduces the severity of nicotine cravings and withdrawal symptoms. A typical bupropion treatment course lasts for seven to twelve weeks, with the patient halting the use of tobacco about ten days into the course.
Uses of Bupropion: Bupropion is an antidepressant that is used to treat more than just chemical or mental problems. Bupropion is used to treat depression, chemical imbalances, helps you kick certain drug habits, Bupropion is also used to help some to stop smoking. Side Effects of Bupropion hcl: Bupropion antidepressant has a favorable side-effect profile. As with any medication, you may experience some side effects, but with Bupropion, most side effects are mild to moderate, and tend to go away as you continue taking Bupropion.
The metabolism of bupropion is highly variable: the effective doses of bupropion received by persons who ingest the same amount of the drug may differ by as much as 5.5 times (and the half-life from 3 to 16 hours), and of hydroxybupropion by as much as 7.5 times (and the half-life from 12 to 38 hours). The next most common use is as an aid for smoking cessation where it reduces the severity of nicotine cravings and withdrawal symptoms. A typical bupropion treatment course lasts for seven to twelve weeks, with the patient halting the use of tobacco about ten days into the course.
BRAND NAME: Forfivo XL. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Bupropion hydrochloride is an antidepressant medication that affects chemicals within the brain that nerves use to send messages to each other. (Forfivo XL is an extended release form of bupropion hydrochloride.) Chemical messengers are called neurotransmitters. Many experts believe that depression is caused by an imbalance among the amounts of neurotransmitters that are released.
Bupropion is an antidepressant medication used to treat major depressive disorder and seasonal affective disorder. The Zyban brand of bupropion is used to help people stop smoking by reducing cravings and other withdrawal effects. Bupropion may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. If you take Wellbutrin for depression, do not also take Zyban to quit smoking. Bupropion may cause seizures, especially in people with certain medical conditions or when using certain drugs. Tell your doctor about all of your medical conditions and the drugs you use.
Bupropion's Dosage and How to Take Bupropion antidepressant: The initial dose of Wellbutrin SR (bupropion hydrochloride) is 150mg in the morning. If that is tolerated the target dose of 300mg a day may be tried as early as four days later, split into two 150mg doses with at least eight hours between each dose. Side Effects of Bupropion hcl: Bupropion antidepressant has a favorable side-effect profile. As with any medication, you may experience some side effects, but with Bupropion, most side effects are mild to moderate, and tend to go away as you continue taking Bupropion.
Bupropion serves as an atypical antidepressant different from most commonly prescribed antidepressants such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). It is an effective antidepressant on its own, but is also popular as an add-on medication in cases of incomplete response to first-line SSRI antidepressants. The next most common use is as an aid for smoking cessation where it reduces the severity of nicotine cravings and withdrawal symptoms. A typical bupropion treatment course lasts for seven to twelve weeks, with the patient halting the use of tobacco about ten days into the course.