Description. Cornstarch, or corn flour, is the starch of the corn (maize) grain. It is different from maize flour or makkai ka atta. Maize flour is milled from the whole kernel, while cornstarch is obtained from the endosperm portion of the kernel. Cornstarch is commonly used as a thickening agent in soups and liquids. 
Corn flour comes in yellow and white and is used for breading and in combination with other flours in baked goods. Corn flour is milled from the whole kernel, while cornstarch is obtained from the endosperm portion of the kernel. Masa Harina is a special corn flour that is the basic ingredient for corn tortillas. White corn flour blends well with other food ingredients and can be blended with wheat flour to reduce gluten for cakes, cookies, pastries and crackers. White corn flour is used as a filler, binder and thickener in cookie, pastry and meat industries. Season: available year-round.
Report Abuse. Corn flour, In the US is known as corn starch. Corn starch is mainly used for thickening to make pudding, sauces and gravies. Also, you can use corn starch as a coating for deep frying. However you can't really use it like wheat flour to make breads. It dissolves to easily. 
Corn Flour refers to corn meal that is ground at a much finer consistency than corn meal that is used to make cornbread, etc. Plain four is made for Wheat that is ground and then processed. Never the less, corn flour is made from corn, flour is made from wheat. Corn flour or cornmeal can be used in a variety of ways, but most commonly is used to make cornbread.
Masa harina is corn flour that is ground from dried hominy. White or yellow corn is used for making hominy, which is also known as posole or pozole. The corn is boiled in a solution containing powdered lime and is then washed, dried, and ground to form the masa harina. It is used to make cornbread, muffins, pancakes, polenta, and tortillas. Corn flour is very useful for gluten-free quick breads. Because corn flour contains no gluten, it must be blended with wheat flour when preparing yeasted breads.
A type of flour milled from dried kernels of yellow corn. It is similar to cornmeal except that it is ground to a finer consistency than cornmeal. It is used to make cornbread, muffins, pancakes, polenta, and tortillas. Corn flour is very useful for gluten-free quick breads. Because corn flour contains no gluten, it must be blended with wheat flour when preparing yeasted breads.
corn flour. Finely ground cornmeal, corn flour comes in yellow and white and is used for breading and in combination with other flours in baked goods. Corn flour is milled from the whole kernel, while cornstarch is obtained from the endosperm portion of the kernel. In British recipes the term cornflour is used synonymously with the U.S. word cornstarch. masa harina is a special corn flour that's the basic ingredient for corn tortillas. From The Food Lover's Companion, Fourth edition by Sharon Tyler Herbst and Ron Herbst.
Blue corn is used to make harinilla and is not used for masa harina. Cornstarch is obtained from the white heart of the corn kernel. Cornstarch is a tasteless, very fine powder that is very useful as a thickener, having double the thickening properties of regular flour. It is used to make cornbread, muffins, pancakes, polenta, and tortillas. Corn flour is very useful for gluten-free quick breads. Because corn flour contains no gluten, it must be blended with wheat flour when preparing yeasted breads.