An electron transport chain(ETC) couples a chemical reaction between an electron donor (such as NADH) and an electron acceptor (such as O2) to the transfer of H+ ions across a … membrane, through a set of mediating biochemical reactions. Incorrect: Some bacteria do not have an electron transport chain and just glycolysis. If they do have an electron transport chain, then it would take place in the mitochondria.
NADH and FADH2 then transfer protons and electrons to the electron transport chain to produce additional ATPs by oxidative phosphorylation. 3. The electron transport chain consists of a series of electron carriers that eventually transfer electrons from NADH and FADH2 to oxygen. 4. The chemiosmotic theory states that the tranfer of electrons down an electron transport system through a series of oxidation-reduction reactions releases energy. At the end of the electron transport system, two protons, two electrons, and half of an oxygen molecule combine to form water. Since oxygen is the final electron acceptor, the process is called aerobic respiration.
In bacterial cells, the electron transport system is located in the. A. cell membrane. B. mitochondria. C. chloroplasts. D. ribosomes. E. cytoplasm. 
Copyright © Gary E. Kaiser. NADH and FADH 2 carry protons (H +) and electrons (e -) to the electron transport chain located in the membrane. The energy from the transfer of electrons along the chain transports protons across the membrane and creates an electrochemical gradient. At the end of the electron transport system, two protons, two electrons, and half of an oxygen molecule combine to form water. Since oxygen is the final electron acceptor, the process is called aerobic respiration.
The location of the electron transport system depends on the cell type. The electron transport system is embedded in the inner membrane of the mitochondria for animal, plant and fungus cells. The electron transport systemis also in the thylakoid membrane of chloroplasts in plant cells. Bacterial cells have molecules that are similar to the electron transport system found in eukaryotic (animal, plant and fungus) cells. These molecules are found in the bacterial cell membrane. Answer-All of the choices are correct.
1. The electron transport chain in bacteria is located... in the cytoplasm. in the mitochondria. in the cell wall. in the cell membrane. in the plasmid. 2. During aerobic respiration, the last carrier protein transfers a pair of electrons to... water. 
In an electron transport system, electrons pass from carrier to carrier through a series of oxidation-reduction reactions. During each transfer, some energy is released. Depending on the type of cell, the electron transport chain may be found in the cytoplasmic membrane or the inner membrane of mitochondria. At the end of the electron transport system, two protons, two electrons, and half of an oxygen molecule combine to form water. Since oxygen is the final electron acceptor, the process is called aerobic respiration.
In bacteria, the electron transport chain is located in their cell membrane. In chloroplasts, light drives the conversion of water to oxygen and NADP+ to NADPH with transfer of H + ions across chloroplast membranes. In the mitochondrial electron transport chain electrons move from an electron donor (NADH or QH 2) to a terminal electron acceptor (O 2) via a series of redox reactions. These reactions are coupled to the creation of a proton gradient across the mitochondrial inner membrane. There are three proton pumps: I, III, and IV
To see the Flash movie for the following sequence of images, click here. The electron transport chain (ETC) is located in the inner membrane of the mitochondria. NADH is the electron donor for the ETC. Electron donation to the first complex (blue) and hydrogen ion pumping are coupled. 