In symmetric systems the same key (the secret key) is used to encrypt and decrypt a message. Data manipulation in symmetric systems is faster than asymmetric systems as they generally use shorter key lengths. Asymmetric systems use public key to encrypt a message and a private key to decrypt it. Use of asymmetric systems enhances the security of communication. In colloquial use, the term  code  is often used to mean any method of encryption or concealment of meaning. Symmetric-key cryptography, where a single key is used for encryption and decryption. Symmetric-key cryptography refers to encryption methods in which both the sender and receiver share the same key (or, less commonly, in which their keys are different, but related in an easily computable way).
Modern cryptography is heavily based on mathematical theory and computer science practice; cryptographic algorithms are designed around computational hardness assumptions, making such algorithms hard to break in practice by any adversary. Symmetric-key cryptography, where a single key is used for encryption and decryption. Symmetric-key cryptography refers to encryption methods in which both the sender and receiver share the same key (or, less commonly, in which their keys are different, but related in an easily computable way).
Purpose. Cryptography is the use of codes to convert data so that only a specific recipient will be able to read it, using a key.
This leads us to more general problem of cryptology than of the intractability of the various mathematical concepts, which is that the more time, effort, and resources that can be devoted to studying a problem, then the greater the possibility that a solution, or at least a weakness, will be found. 
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Cryptology or cryptography is the study and process of encoding and decoding plain text messages so that they cannot be read by anyone without a guide or key. Cryptology is the study and process of encoding and decoding plain text messages so they cannot be ready by other people without a guide.
Cryptography for Network and Information Security. Cryptography is a cornerstone of the modern electronic security technologies used today to protect valuable information resources on intranets, extranets, and the Internet. 
Full Definition of CRYPTOGRAPHY. 1. : secret writing. 2. : the enciphering and deciphering of messages in secret code or cipher; also: the computerized encoding and decoding of information. 3. : cryptanalysis. See cryptography defined for English-language learners. See cryptography defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Today, cryptology is often very technical in encoding or decoding processes, due to the use of computers. Computers can frequently evolve codes that are virtually unbreakable. A certain amount of cryptology is necessary too, to protect the security of computers. Cryptology is the study and process of encoding and decoding plain text messages so they cannot be ready by other people without a guide.
Cryptography is the science of providing security for information. It has been used historically as a means of providing secure communication between individuals, government agencies, and military forces. Today, cryptography is a cornerstone of the modern security technologies used to protect information and resources on both open and closed networks. Top Of Page.