Les. Brown bears-are extremely fast, capable of running in short bursts as high as of 40 mph (64 km/h). Polar bears-have been clocked at a top speed of 35 mph (56 km/h), along a a road in Churchill, Canada. Grizzly bears-can reach top speeds of up to 30 mph (48km/h), but they can't maintain that speed for very long. American Black bears-can reach running speeds of up to 25 mph (40km/h). Bears aren't necessarily built for speed, but are capable of running fast when necessary. 0. Oct 13th, 2010 at 12:49 AM.
How Fast can a Grizzly Bear Run. Grizzly bears are able to run as fast as 55 km per hour. They seem to be more active at dawn and dusk, but may come out any time. Grizzly bears also share the same area of food provided the food is good enough to feed all of them. Bears are lumbering animals as they typically move slowly and deliberately. Although they have stout limbs and plantigrade feet bears possess the ability to run fast. Each bear species has adapted itself to move on bare ground as well as on thick arctic sheet.
The average walking speed of a polar bear is 5.5 kph (3.4 mph)When being chased or charging prey, polar bears can run as fast as 40 kph (25 mph) for short distances. A young, lean Black bear can reach speeds of over 30MPH very quickly when frightened. Older and larger bears are not quite so fast but much faster from the start than most h … umans. Most bears run away and a charge towared you if often a bluff and will stop before reaching you.
1 Bears are incredibly fast (black bears and grizzlies can run as fast as a horse, about 50 km/h), so do not try to race a bear to a tree—you will lose. 2  This approach is usually only viable if you are right next to the tree, and you’re a good climber. 1 Fight a black bear attack or any predatory attack. 2  If the bear is a black bear, or if you have determined that the bear sees you as food (this is actually quite rare, and more common with black bears and, some say, polar bears than with grizzlies), your only chance of escape is to fight it or scare it away.
Confidence votes 758. The fastest bear is the Black Bear, followed by the Brown Bear, and the Polar Bear. In short, the larger the bear the slower it is. Keep in mind that even the slowest bear can still move it out at about 30 mph. The Brown Bear can run approximately 40 mph. Bears can even run sideways; still beating the fastest human runner.
Best Answer: The fastest bear is the Black Bear, followed by the Grizzly, then the Brown and the Polar Bear. In short, the larger the bear the slower it is. Keep in mind that even the slowest bear can still move it out at about 30 mph. The Black Bear is a better broken field (i.e., nimble) runner than the others who tend to bulldoze through obstacles. Black Bears are more shy than the others. If one comes after you and you run, it will catch you. The only chance you have is to head down a steep hill. Since all of their real power is in their back legs, they can not go as fast down hill. Brown bears can do 35 mph....
Young, lean black bears may run up to 30 mph (48 km/hr), but average bears are more dangerous for their strength than their speed. So if you are camping or hiking and you do encounter a black bear, then you shouldn't run because the bear can run faster. A young, lean Black bear can reach speeds of over 30MPH very quickly when frightened. Older and larger bears are not quite so fast but much faster from the start than most h … umans. Most bears run away and a charge towared you if often a bluff and will stop before reaching you.
The average walking speed of a polar bear is 5.5 kph (3.4 mph)When being chased or charging prey, polar bears can run as fast as 40 kph (25 mph) for short distances. Keep in mind that even the slowest bear can still move it out at about 30 mph. The Brown Bear can run approximately 40 mph. Bears can even run sideways; still beating the fastest human runner.
The fastest bear is the Black Bear, followed by the Brown Bear, and the Polar Bear. In short, the larger the bear the slower it is. Keep in mind that even the slowest bear can … still move it out at about 30 mph. A young, lean Black bear can reach speeds of over 30MPH very quickly when frightened. Older and larger bears are not quite so fast but much faster from the start than most h … umans. Most bears run away and a charge towared you if often a bluff and will stop before reaching you.