Musician Stevie Ray Vaughn was born on October 3, 1954, in Dallas, Texas. Vaughan was at the forefront of a blues resurgence in the 1980s, bringing rock fans into the fold with a powerful, driving style of play that earned him comparisons with some of his heroes such as Jimi Hendrix, Otis Rush and Muddy Waters. Synopsis. Born on October 3, 1954 in Dallas, Texas, Stevie Ray Vaughan played guitar as a child and became lead singer for the Texas band Double Trouble, which led to work with David Bowie and Jackson Browne. Vaughan had hit albums with his band before the 1989 release of In Step, for which he earned a Grammy
Vaughan's music took root in blues, rock, and jazz. He was influenced by the work of artists such as Jimi Hendrix, Albert King, B.B. King, Freddie King, Albert Collins, Johnny Guitar Watson, Buddy Guy, Howlin' Wolf, Otis Rush, Guitar Slim, Chuck Berry, and Muddy Waters. In spite of a short-lived mainstream career spanning seven years, he is widely considered one of the most influential electric guitarists in the history of blues music, and one of the most important figures in the revival of blues in the 1980s.
Stephen Stevie Ray Vaughan (October 3, 1954 – August 27, 1990) was an American musician, singer, songwriter, and record producer. In spite of a short-lived mainstream career spanning seven years, he is widely considered one of the most influential electric guitarists in the history of blues music, and one of the most important figures in the revival of blues in the 1980s.
Texas Flood. In the '80s, when mainstream rock and roll hit a weak spot, Stevie Ray Vaughan broke out at just the right time. He had the guitar skills of Jimi Hendrix and the voice of old blues legends like Muddy Waters. He put out four marvelous studio albums when he was alive and one marvelous posthumous album, as well. Stevie Ray Vaughan grew up in Dallas, TX. At an early age, he became hooked on guitar by his brother, Jimmie, and began playing in many garage bands as he matured. At the age of 17, Vaughan decided to drop out of high school to focus on his music. He moved to Austin, TX and began picking up the blues guitar.
In the spring of 1990, Stevie Ray recorded an album with his brother Jimmie, which was scheduled for release in the fall of the year. In the late summer of 1990, Vaughan and Double Trouble set out on an American headlining tour. On August 26, 1990, their East Troy, WI, gig concluded with an encore jam featuring guitarists Eric Clapton, Buddy Guy, Jimmie Vaughan, and Robert Cray. After the concert, Stevie Ray boarded a helicopter bound for Chicago. The group decided to continue performing under the name Double Trouble, which was inspired by the Otis Rush song of the same name; Vaughan became the band's lead singer. For the next few years, Stevie Ray Vaughan and Double Trouble played the Austin area, becoming one of the most popular bands in Texas.
Stevie Ray Vaughan was born on October 3, 1954 in Dallas, Texas, USA. He was married to Lenora Lenny Darlene Bailey. He died on August 27, 1990 in East Troy, Wisconsin, USA. 
In the spring of 1990, Stevie Ray recorded an album with his brother Jimmie, which was scheduled for release in the fall of the year. In the late summer of 1990, Vaughan and Double Trouble set out on an American headlining tour. On August 26, 1990, their East Troy, WI, gig concluded with an encore jam featuring guitarists Eric Clapton, Buddy Guy, Jimmie Vaughan, and Robert Cray. After the concert, Stevie Ray boarded a helicopter bound for Chicago.
Stevie Ray and Jimmie Vaughan's parents are Martha and Jim (dubbed as Big Jim on the deluxe edition of 1983's Texas Flood) Vaughan. Unfortunately, Big Jim and Stevie Ray bot … h passed away on the same date, but the years differ their death dates. 9 people found this useful. SRV's Guitar   Stevie Ray Vaughan's main guitar, which he called Number One, along with his various other guitars are in the possession of his brother, Jimmie Vaughan. Ji … mmie sold one of Stevie's guitars, Lenny, at an auction for $623,500 in 2004. When Guitar Center bougth the guitar a very special deal was made