Other varieties of cheese that are good sources of riboflavin include hard goat cheese (20% DV), feta (14% DV), Roquefort (10% DV), Brie (9% DV), camembert and grated parmesan (8% DV). Cheese is quite versatile and can be used in a variety of recipes apart from sandwiches and pizzas. Green veggies are an amazing source of nutrition. Spinach is a super food when we talk about its nutritional value. It is also quite a good source of vitamin B2 with 100 grams serving providing 0.24 mg or 14% DV of riboflavin.
The World's Healthiest Foods are generally very rich in vitamin B2. In fact, well over half of the foods profiled on our site contain at least 5% of the Dietary Recommended Intake (DRI) for vitamin B2. We rate five of our foods as excellent sources of vitamin B2. Another 12 foods rate as very good sources, while 21 rate as good sources. Summary of Food Sources. People eating a standard Western diet receive about one-quarter to one-third of their dietary vitamin B2 from milk and other dairy products. If you look at the chart below, you'll see milk and yogurt represented as good
Information about Riboflavin. 1  Riboflavin is a water-soluble B vitamin (vitamin B 2). 2  Riboflavin helps your body cells use fat, protein and carbohydrates from foods to produce energy. 3  Riboflavin helps in the production of niacin (vitamin B 3) and pyridoxine (vitamin B 6). Information about Riboflavin. 1  Riboflavin is a water-soluble B vitamin (vitamin B 2). 2  This means that riboflavin is not stored in the body. 3  You need to eat foods rich in riboflavin every day.
1 Riboflavin is a water-soluble B vitamin (vitamin B 2). 2  This means that riboflavin is not stored in the body. 3  You need to eat foods rich in riboflavin every day. 4  Riboflavin helps your body cells use fat, protein and carbohydrates from foods to produce energy. Information about Riboflavin. 1 
7 Foods Rich in Vitamin B2. Vitamin B2, also called riboflavin, does a lot for the body. One primary role of this nutritional element is to help with energy production at a cellular level. Vitamin B2 is concentrated in major organs: the liver, kidneys and heart. 1 Milk: Both cow's milk and goat's milk are significant sources of vitamin B2, as well as other parts of the vitamin B complex, along with calcium and other healthy elements. 2  Take care to select lower fat varieties of milk for a healthier low-fat diet.
Sources of riboflavin are milk, cheese, leaf vegetables, liver, kidneys, legumes, yeast, mushrooms, and almonds. Yeast extract is considered to be exceptionally rich in vitamin B 2. 
Many types of vegetables are rich in vitamin B2. In addition to leafy greens, which are rich sources of a wide array of nutrients, we see other Brassica vegetables (including broccoli, cauliflower, and Brussels sprouts), peppers, root vegetables, and squash on the list of vitamin B2-rich foods. Summary of Food Sources. People eating a standard Western diet receive about one-quarter to one-third of their dietary vitamin B2 from milk and other dairy products. If you look at the chart below, you'll see milk and yogurt represented as good sources of
Food Sources of Riboflavin (Vitamin B 2) Trusted advice from dietitians. www.dietitians.ca Information about Riboflavin • Riboflavin is a water-soluble B vitamin (vitamin B 2). This means that riboflavin is not stored in the body. You need to eat foods rich in riboflavin every day. • Riboflavin helps your body cells use fat, protein and carbohydrates from foods to produce energy. • Riboflavin helps in the production of niacin (vitamin B 3) and pyridoxine (vitamin B 6).
Overview. Vitamin B2, also called riboflavin, is one of 8 B vitamins. All B vitamins help the body to convert food (carbohydrates) into fuel (glucose), which is used to produce energy. These B vitamins, often referred to as B complex vitamins, also help the body metabolize fats and protein.
Rich sources of riboflavin (vitamin B2) are yeast and organ meats, such as liver, kidney, and heart. Good plant sources are almonds, mushrooms, whole grains, soybeans, and green leafy vegetables. Riboflavin is destroyed by light, but not by cooking.