Aerobic respiration is the process in which a compound is oxidized using oxygen as the terminal electron acceptor. That definition probably doesn't make much sense yet, but by the end of the lesson it will come together. Lesson Summary. Aerobic respiration is the process in which a compound is oxidized using oxygen as the terminal electron acceptor. In the beginning, this may have seemed complicated, but now we can use our model cell to better understand that definition. At the start of the process, glucose is oxidized
Aerobic exercise (also known as cardio) is physical exercise of low to high intensity that depends primarily on the aerobic energy-generating process. Aerobic exercise and fitness can be contrasted with anaerobic exercise, of which strength training and short-distance running are the most salient examples. The two types of exercise differ by the duration and intensity of muscular contractions involved, as well as by how energy is generated within the muscle.
Glycolysis. The pathway in which a cell breaks down glucose into energy. Mentioned in: Pyruvate Kinase Deficiency. a catabolic pathway that breaks down glucose 6-phosphate, derived from glucose or glycogen, and in the process generates energy which leads to production of ATP. In aerobic conditions, pyruvate is the end-product. Etymology: Gk, glykys + lysis, loosening. a series of enzymatically catalyzed reactions by which glucose and other sugars are broken down to yield lactic acid (anaerobic glycolysis) or pyruvic acid (aerobic glycolysis) . The breakdown releases energy in the form of adenosine triphosphate. Also called Embden-Meyerhof pathway
Aerobic respiration. Definition. noun. (1) A form of cellular respiration that requires oxygen in order to generate energy. (2) The process of generating energy by the full oxidation of nutrients through Krebs cycle where oxygen is the final electron acceptor. Supplement
Aerobic metabolism converts fat and carbohydrate into units of cellular energy called ATP. Aerobic metabolism is very efficient, producing 34 molecules of ATP from every molecule of glucose, compared to the two ATP molecules anaerobic metabolism generates. Significance. Your body performs aerobic metabolism all day long to provide energy for activities of daily living. Because aerobic metabolism requires water and oxygen, it is the reason that humans breathe constantly and part of the reason why you need to drink water.
Aerobic metabolism supports sustained, low-intensity activities. Photo Credit Sean Murphy/Lifesize/Getty Images. Aerobic metabolism is a way for your cells to convert fat, carbohydrate and sometimes protein into energy, but only in the presence of oxygen. Aerobic metabolism is slow, so it is useful for sustained activities like jogging or dancing rather than short bursts of effort like sprinting or weightlifting. Significance. Your body performs aerobic metabolism all day long to provide energy for activities of daily living. Because aerobic metabolism requires water and oxygen, it is the reason that humans breathe constantly and part of the reason why you need to drink water.
Your ability to work and live depends on your metabolism, or the ability of your cells to convert proteins, carbohydrates and fats into energy. Whereas aerobic metabolism requires oxygen, anaerobic metabolism takes place without oxygen. When one glucose molecule is converted into lactic acid in anaerobic metabolism, three ATP molecules are generated. When a glucose molecule is converted into carbon dioxide and water via aerobic metabolism, it produces 39 molecules of ATP. However, glycolysis requires powerful enzymes that compensate for the lower energy efficiency of anaerobic metabolism. What limits the anaerobic process is the byproduct, or lactic acid