On the 25th day, stop turning the eggs. This is so the turkey can get into hatching position. In approx three days, on the 28th day, they will hatch. When turkeys hatch out, they may roll over the others' eggs, use the turning marks to keep the same side up.
1 If you put the crack facing the floor, the turkey may not be able to break through. 2  In the last three days of incubation the turkey will move to get into hatching position. 3  6-12 hours before they hatch you may even hear them start to peep. 4  After 24 hours have passed, show the turkey its water and food. This is so the turkey can get into hatching position. In approx three days, on the 28th day, they will hatch. When turkeys hatch out, they may roll over the others' eggs, use the turning marks to keep the same side up.
I don’t add any water at all in the incubator for this time period. You shouldn’t have to unless you are in an extremely dry part of the country with very low humidity below 50%. If you run your incubator in an air conditioned room you may have to add water if your humidity is below 50% in the room. These thermometers are the same kind you use to insert into whole roasting poultry to take the internal temperature reading. If your incubator has an auto egg turner place the eggs in the holders large end up. Otherwise just lay them on their sides and turn them over completely to the other side at least 3 times a day.
The incubation period for turkey eggs is 28 days. Incubation Temperature. The temperature in the incubator for turkey eggs is 99-99.5 degrees fahrenheit. Humidity Levels. The humidity level (wet bulb thermometer) for turkey eggs is 83-86 degrees fahrenheit. Final Day Of Egg Rotation. The final day of egg rotation for turkey eggs is day 25. Please note that all of this information is only a guide and that this information may differ according to the incubator manufacturer’s guide. If you haven’t an incubator, your chances of hatching them ok and well are slim. They need to be kept at 90degrees F with a humidity of 50-70% they need to be turned twice a day for the first 25 days.
The Basics: turkeys take about 28 days to hatch. incubation temp is the same as it is for chickens and ducks.. so 99.5 ºF in a forced air. 100.5 to 101.5 ºF for a still air incubator. 
This is just for those who would like a little guidance. Before you place eggs in an incubator make sure the temp is regulating at 100.5 to 101.5 degrees for still air machines or 99.5 to 100 degrees for forced air incubators with a relative humidity in the room of 50-60 %. I recommend a digital thermometer and hygrometer if you don’t have these already. These thermometers are the same kind you use to insert into whole roasting poultry to take the internal temperature reading. If your incubator has an auto egg turner place the eggs in the holders large end up. Otherwise just lay them on their sides and turn them over completely to the other side at least 3 times a day.
1 In the last three days of incubation the turkey will move to get into hatching position. 2  6-12 hours before they hatch you may even hear them start to peep. 3  After 24 hours have passed, show the turkey its water and food. 4  Dip its beak in the water (but not so that it goes in the nostrils) and watch him drink. This is so the turkey can get into hatching position. In approx three days, on the 28th day, they will hatch. When turkeys hatch out, they may roll over the others' eggs, use the turning marks to keep the same side up.
Turkey Incubation. The incubation period is 28 days in turkey. There are two methods of incubation. (a) Natural incubation with broody hens: Naturally turkeys are good brooders and the broody hen can hatch 10-15 numbers of eggs. Only clean eggs with good eggshell and shape should be placed for brooding to get 60-80% hatchability and healthy poults. (b) Artificial Incubation: In artificial incubation, eggs are hatched with the help of incubators.
Incubation Period. The incubation period for turkey eggs is 28 days, versus 21 days for chicken eggs. The eggs need to be turned at least 3 times a day for the first 24 days. Turkey eggs are too large for most turners. Turkey poults can be left in the incubator for 24 hours without food or water. I've read up to 48 hours, but this makes me nervous. Opening the incubator to get poults out will cause a temperature and humidity fluctuation, which is bad for the rest of the unhatched eggs.
Hatchability in turkey eggs stored for 15 days prior to setting improves if the incubator temperature during the fi rst 7-14 days of incubation is increased (Christensen and colleagues in 2003). However air temperature among the eggs should not exceed 38.1 ºC (100.6 ºF) at any point throughout the incubation period. Turkey embryos appear to be most sensitive to high temperatures (38.5 ºC=101.3 ºF) between the 7th and 12th day of incubation.