If an ingrown hair is bothering you or has become infected, your doctor can make a small cut in your skin with a sterile needle or scalpel to release it. Your doctor may also prescribe medicine such as: 1  Steroid medicine that you rub on your skin to bring down the swelling and irritation.
Infected ingrown pubic hair is very painful to deal with. The hairs that have curled instead of rising straight up and have started growing back into the skin are termed as ingrown hairs. Hair follicles can sometimes be clogged by dead skin.
If you have an infected ingrown hair, don't squeeze or scrub it. Use a gentle soap to clean the infected follicle, and don't shave the area or wear tight clothing. You should also apply an antibiotic ointment daily. If the infection doesn't clear up in a few days, call your doctor.
An ingrown hair irritates the skin. It produces a raised, red bump (or group of bumps) that looks like a little pimple. Sometimes an ingrown hair can form a painful, boil-like sore. Ingrown hairs can be itchy and uncomfortable, especially if you've got a lot of them. You may notice pus inside the bumps. Or you may see the hair that's causing the problem. In men, ingrown hairs often pop up as a bunch of little bumps on the chin, cheeks, or neck after shaving. In women, ingrown hairs are common on the legs, as well as in the pubic area and armpits.
Ingrown hairs and razor bumps often follow with an infection that often may look like something similar to a pimple to a large bump. You want to get the hair to point back out of the skin, kill the bacteria and then continue to prevent the bumps and redness before they strike again.
An ingrown hair is caused by a small hair under the skin that does not grow outward through the skin as it should. Instead, the tip of an ingrown hair grows sideways or curls back into the hair follicle to cause a localized area of skin irritation and inflammation.
An ingrown hair happens when the sharp tip of the hair curls back or grows sideways into the skin of the hair follicle. It is a benign condition, which usually appears as a small tan or sometimes pink bump under the skin. Often, a small pinpoint (often dark) part of the underlying hair may be seen under the skin bump.