In a general election you can vote for any candidate of any party regardless of what party you are registered with or if you are regisetred with no party preference. California's voters enacted the Top Two Open Primary system in June 2010. 
Where primary elections are organized by parties, not the administration, two types of primaries can generally be distinguished: 1  Closed primary. (synonyms: internal primaries, party primaries) In the case of closed primaries, internal primaries, or party primaries, only party members can vote. 2  Open primary. 1 When voters do not register with a party before the primary, it is called a pick-a-party primary because the voter can select which party's primary he or she wishes to vote in on election day. 2  Because of the open nature of this system, a practice known as raiding may occur.
Secondly, in the open primary moderates and independent voters can vote in either party. This occurrence may dilute the vote of a particular party and lead to a nominee who does not represent the views of his particular party. The Connecticut closed primary law “[required] voters in any political party primary to be registered members of that party.” The Republican Party of Connecticut, however, wanted to allow independents to vote in the Republican primary if they so chose.
Beyond certain federal restrictions, individual states control the entry of candidates on election ballots. In some elections, independent voters who register without affiliating with any political party cannot vote in a primary election, while in other states they can. The Republican and Democratic parties dominate the American political system. Rules for the electoral process are geared toward maintaining their power
You can find out more information here: http://www.ss.ca.gov/elections/elections... California has modified closed Primary Elections, meaning that you can only vote as an Independent in the Primary if the political parties open them up to non-partisan voters. Source(s): http://www.declareyourself.com http://www.ss.ca.gov/elections/elections... Declare Yourself · 8 years ago. Thumbs up
: This was the year of the Open Primary. Independents flocked to vote in the primaries and established that they are an engine for a new politic. Support for open primaries is very high among independents. CUIP’s polling puts it consistently at above 90%. 
An open primary is a primary election that does not require voters to be affiliated with a political party in order to vote for partisan candidates. In a traditional open primary, voters may select one party's ballot and vote for that party's nomination. As in a closed primary, the highest voted candidate in each party then proceeds to the general election. The Connecticut closed primary law “[required] voters in any political party primary to be registered members of that party.” The Republican Party of Connecticut, however, wanted to allow independents to vote in the Republican primary if they so chose.
Yes, California Independents, You CAN Vote in the Primary on Tuesday. California’s Independent Voters Big Winners in Tuesday’s Primary Election. by Jason Olson. Even before the first vote is counted, Tuesday’s Statewide Primary Election had a big winner: California’s independent voters. 1 Hankster News of the Day for Independents June 5. 2  Yes, California Independents, You CAN Vote in the 3  ... Arizona Open Elections-Open Government Campaign Se... 4  Justice Department tells Florida to stop looking f...
You cannot vote more than once. You have to register either unaffiliated or with a party. I am a California voter and had this problem in 2008. We had a closed primary and I could register for any party but to vote for Ron Paul I had to be a Republican or an Independent. That was the state Republican party rule. However, California did not have Independent party registration. (the California Independent Party is not the same party). In 2008, the Republican Party decided NOT to allow independents to vote in their primary. Only those registered as Republicans could vote in that primary (although other parties, including the Democratic permitted independents to vote in their primaries).