Additionally, there’s no need for medical equipment to touch the body when a thermogram is performed, and the procedure does not cause pain or physical discomfort. With thermogram images, colors are used to indicate cooler and warmer areas. However, they are used in two different ways. A thermogram can be used to note heat changes in the breast, which indicates possible abnormalities. Mammograms, on the other hand, are used to detect a mass that’s developed after the cancerous cells have been in the body for quite some time.
Infrared thermography (IRT) , thermal imaging, and thermal video are examples of infrared imaging science. Thermographic cameras usually detect radiation in the long-infrared range of the electromagnetic spectrum (roughly 9,000–14,000 nanometers or 9–14 µm) and produce images of that radiation, called thermograms. Emitted Radiant Power is generally what is intended to be measured; Transmitted Radiant Power is the radiant power that passes through the subject from a remote thermal source, and; Reflected Radiant Power is the amount of radiant power that reflects off the surface of the object from a remote thermal source.
thermogram (therˑ·m ·gram) , n visual record obtained by using infrared technology that shows patterns of radiated heat from the body's surface. “Hot spots” correlate with the development of tumors and other disorders. 
Consequently, in patients with a persistent abnormal thermogram, the examination results become a marker of higher future cancer risk (4,5) . Depending upon certain factors, re-examinations are performed at appropriate intervals to monitor the breasts. While mammography, ultrasound, MRI, and other structural imaging tools rely primarily on finding the physical tumor, DII is based on detecting the heat produced by increased blood vessel circulation and metabolic changes associated with a tumor’s genesis and growth.
Infrared thermography is equipment or method, which detects infrared energy emitted from object, converts it to temperature, and displays image of temperature distribution. 
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. A thermogram is a type of imaging test. It involves capturing infrared images of the heat that radiates off a person’s body and using the images to detect signs of medical conditions or injuries. Abnormalities are detected because of changes in heat production that can be noted via these images. However, they are used in two different ways. A thermogram can be used to note heat changes in the breast, which indicates possible abnormalities. Mammograms, on the other hand, are used to detect a mass that’s developed after the cancerous cells have been in the body for quite some time.
Regardless of your family history, if a thermogram is abnormal you run a future risk of breast cancer that is 10 times higher than a first order family history of the disease. Thermography has the ability to provide women with a future risk assessment. However, breast thermography is not a replacement for or alternative to mammography or any other form of breast imaging. Breast thermography is a risk assessment tool that is meant to be used in addition to mammography and other tests or procedures.
thermogram. n. 1. (Medicine) med a picture produced by thermography, using photographic film sensitive to infrared radiation. 2. (Medicine) the record produced by a thermograph. (ˈθɜr məˌgraem). məˌgræm Noun. 1. thermogram-a graphical record produced by a thermograph. graph, graphical record-a visual representation of the relations between certain quantities plotted with reference to a set of axes.
The images they produce are called thermograms. False colours are added to a thermogram to give an indication of how hot each object in the image is, with: Thermogram of a pan being heated on a stove. 1  the hottest parts are coloured white, yellow or red. 2  the coldest parts are coloured purple, dark blue or black. Temperature. Temperature and heat are not the same thing because: 1  temperature is a measure of how hot something is. 2  heat is a measure of the thermal energy contained in an object.