Caffeine is metabolized in the liver, and has a half-life of four to five hours, which is the amount of time it takes for your liver to flush out half of the caffeine you've consumed. Certain conditions, such as liver disease and pregnancy, can increase the time it takes the liver to clear the caffeine from your body. 
Onset and Duration. It takes approximately 15 to 45 minutes for caffeine to reach its peak levels in your bloodstream. Caffeine has a half-life of approximately five to six hours, meaning that it takes this long for its concentration in your bloodstream to reduce by half. Physiological Effects. Caffeine's stimulant effect on the central nervous system is dose-dependent; the more caffeine consumed, the stronger the stimulant effect. It blocks a neurotransmitter called adenosine, which is a central nervous system depressant and has a calming, slowing effect on the brain.
Print Version. The half-life, which is the time required by the body to metabolize or inactivate 1/2 of a substance activity, for caffeine (doses lower than 4.50mg/lb) ranges from 2.5 to 10hrs. The modern average cup (8oz) of coffee may contain 100-200mgs of caffeine so its effects should be inactivated within 2-5hrs depending on individuality. But it may take the full day to eliminate all traces of caffeine from the body.
Get help from a doctor now ›. Variable: Usual half life of caffeine is 3-7 hours. It takes about 10 half lives for the chemical to become undetectable. Use of tobacco, birth control pills, pregnancy and some medications prolong the clearance time. ...Read more. There is also a related substance, theobromine. The half life of caffeine can range from 3-12 hours, meaning that with a single dose of chocolate in the morning at 7am, if you are on the 12-hour side, you will still have 1/2 of the caffeine around.
Report Abuse. Caffeine has a half life in the body of 3 hours. After you drink a cup of coffee and it has say 100mg of caffeine in 3 hours your body has broken down half of it, after 6 hours you would have 25mg etc. It has only been two days, but I was wondering how long it would take to get out of my system, simply because I still feel tired all day.. I feel like I am gonna fall asleep. I was feeling dizzy to when i stood up or cleaned for longer than 10 minutes. That part has went away, but I still feel extremely tired.
Advertisement. It only takes 45 minutes for 99% of the caffeine to be absorbed through these membranes. In humans the half-life for caffeine is anywhere from 4 to 6 hours on average, which explains why the average energy drink or coffee’s effect lasts about 4 to 6 hours.
As long as caffeine is in your blood, it's effects will also manifest. The time it takes for the body to eliminate one half of a caffeine dose is normally between 3 to 12 hours. It is called the half-life of caffeine. Several factors can shorten or lengthen the half life of caffeine. Smoking, medications and diseases are some factors. If you regularly drink a cup of coffee or tea in the morning and another in the evening, you can expect to have caffeine in your blood every hour of the day. The effect of caffeine in your body will be active 24/7.
My doctor told me to stop drinking caffeine and drinks with alot of sugar. So I did. It has only been two days, but I was wondering how long it would take to get out of my system, simply because I still feel tired all day.. I feel like I am gonna fall asleep. I was feeling dizzy to when i stood up or cleaned for longer than 10 minutes. That part has went away, but I still feel extremely tired.
The half-life, which is the time required by the body to metabolize or inactivate 1/2 of a substance activity, for caffeine (doses lower than 4.50mg/lb) ranges from 2.5 to 10hrs. Meaning, caffeine has little to no pharmacological effect after this time but may still be present in small amounts in the body. 