Noun. 1. Ptolemaic system - (astronomy) Ptolemy's model of the universe with the Earth at the center. framework, model, theoretical account-a hypothetical description of a complex entity or process; the computer program was based on a model of the circulatory and respiratory systems.
(See Ptolemy's theory of the solar system.) In the first book of the Almagest, Ptolemy describes his geocentric system and gives various arguments to prove that, in its position at the center of the universe, the Earth must be immovable.
Ptolemaic system. n. 1. (Astronomy) the theory of planetary motion developed by Ptolemy from the hypotheses of earlier philosophers, stating that the earth lay at the centre of the universe with the sun, the moon, and the known planets revolving around it in complicated orbits.
Ptolemy's conception of the universe, with the earth as the fixed center and the heavenly bodies moving about it. (tŏl′ə-mā′ĭk). Ptolemaic system. Ptolemy believed that Earth was at the center of the universe and that the sun and planets orbited Earth (with the planets also moving in smaller circles called epicycles).
Confidence votes 44. Ptolemy's theory accounted mathematically for the movement of the planets, Sun and Moon and the stars. However, Ptolemy thought the Earth is the center of the universe, which is wrong. Galileo helped prove that the Sun is the center of our solar system by the use of his homemade telescope.
The geocentric model, also known as the Ptolemaic system, is a theory that was developed by philosophers in Ancient Greece and was named after the philosopher Claudius Ptolemy who lived circa 90 to 168 A.D. It was developed to explain how the planets, the Sun, and even the stars orbit around the Earth.
Ptolemaic system Ptolemy believed that Earth was at the center of the universe and that the Sun and planets orbited Earth (with the planets also moving in smaller circles called epicycles).
The astronomical system of Ptolemy, in which the earth is at the center of the universe with the sun, moon, planets, and stars revolving about it in circular orbits.