Seminiferous tubules are located within the testes, and are the specific location of meiosis, and the subsequent creation of male gametes, namely spermatozoa. The epithelium of the tubule consists of a type of sustentacular cells known as Sertoli cells, which are tall, columnar type cells that line the tubule. In between the Sertoli cells are spermatogenic cells, which differentiate through meiosis to sperm cells. Sertoli cells function to nourish the developing sperm cells. They secrete testis-determining factor, a binding protein which increases the concentration of testosterone inside the seminiferous tubules
The supporting cells (Sertoli) are located within the seminiferous tubules. Their task is the creation of a hemato-testicular barrier and the nourishment of the spermatozoa. They can only proliferate in the first year of life (their equivalent in the woman are the follicular cells). 
Sertoli cell tumor-a testicular tumor. Synonym(s): androblastoma. Sertoli cells-elongated cells in the seminiferous tubules to which spermatids are attached during spermiogenesis. Synonym(s): nurse cells. Sertoli columns. Sertoli-cell-only syndrome-the absence from the seminiferous tubules of the testes of germinal epithelium, Sertoli cells alone being present. Elongated cells in the seminiferous tubules that ensheathe spermatids, providing a microenvironment that supports spermiogenesis; they secrete androgen-binding protein and establish the blood-testis barrier by forming tight junctions with adjacent Sertoli cells.
Definition of Seminiferous Tubules. Male sex cells are known as sperm. When a sperm from a male unites with the egg from a female, the process of fertilization occurs and a new life in produced. This process of reproduction is crucial for the survival of any living thing. These cells include skin cells, blood cells, and any cell other than sex cells. Meiosis is the process that creates sex cells. These cells include sperm and egg cells. Seminiferous tubules are structures located in the male sex organ called the testis.
A Sertoli cell (a kind of sustentacular cell) is a nurse cell of the testicles that is part of a seminiferous tubule and helps in the process of spermatogenesis; that is, the production of sperm. Functions [edit]. Because its main function is to nourish the developing sperm cells through the stages of spermatogenesis, the Sertoli cell has also been called the mother or nurse cell. Sertoli cells also act as phagocytes, consuming the residual cytoplasm during spermatogenesis.
It is specifically located in the convoluted seminiferous tubules (since this is the only place in the testes where the spermatozoa are produced). Development of Sertoli cells is directed by the testis-determining factor protein. Functions [edit]. Because its main function is to nourish the developing sperm cells through the stages of spermatogenesis, the Sertoli cell has also been called the mother or nurse cell. Sertoli cells also act as phagocytes, consuming the residual cytoplasm during spermatogenesis.
Located in the testicles, the seminiferous tubules are tiny tubes in which spermatozoa or sperm cells are formed. They are lined with Sertoli cells, specialized cells that serve as a sort of nursery for growing sperm cells. Sperm cells are formed in seminiferous tubules. Malformation of seminiferous tubules may cause male infertility problems. Located inside the testicles, seminiferous tubules are where spermatozoa -- or sperm cells -- are formed. View slideshow of images above.