Dr. Martin Cooper invented the first mobile phone. Dr. Cooper may have invented the idea for the first commercial mobile phone, but the first actual working handheld cell phone was built by Oren Verble, a Kennedy Space Center rocket tech. I saw it work
Your question has two answers. The phone was invented in 1889 by Bell. The cell phone idea began in the 1930's, but in 1947 Bell Labs made a cell type phone. The first cell phone inventor id given to Dr. Martin Cooper of Motorola in 1974. This phone was sold to the government. The public did not get it until 1984. The cell phone was first thought of in the 1920's when the use of police radios began. In 1947 Bell Labs made the first cell phone, but it took Dr. Cooper of Motorola to make … a cell phone in 1974 for
Well, the inventor of the cell phone is named Martin Cooper and he is the man responsible for the generation and development of the very first cell phone. Although, it was a research team associated with AT&T that first introduced the whole idea of cellular communications in 1947. It was April 3, 1973 that the first working prototype of the cell phone was introduced. This was also the day of the first cell phone call being placed by Mr. Cooper. This first prototype was a Motorola Dyna-Tac Phone. The Dyna-Tac cell phone was:
The mobile or cell phone was invented by Martin Cooper in 1973. The history of the cell phone shows that Nathan Stubblefield had a patent in 1908. However the patent was for cave radio phones and not the mobile device as we know it today. Early History. As stated, Stubblefield’s patent was for cave radio telephones, as the device was known then. First Generation Phones. Cooper’s invention was patented on October 17, 1973. the first phone call was made by Cooper months before he applied for the patent, on April 3, 1973. He made the call to Dr. Joel Engel, a researcher at AT&T’s Bell Labs.
Dr. Martin Cooper is the person credited with both inventing the modern cell phone as well as making the first cell phone call in New York City, New York in April 1973. A related invention is the cave radio phone invented by Nathan Stubblefield who was awarded a patent for the idea in the early 20 th Century (1908). Since his work does not provide the technology behind modern cell phones, he is not given credit for inventing the cell phone.
Today I will answer the question ‘who invented cell phones’ and also look at some facts about the man who invented cell phones. Who Invented Cell Phones. Cell phones were invented by Martin Cooper in 1973, who was working for Motorola at the time. His was the first design that was practical and was truly ‘mobile’ (car phones have previously been invented-but they could only be used in a car). 
Dr Martin Cooper, a former general manager for the systems division at Motorola, is considered the inventor of the first portable handset and the first person to make a call on a portable cell phone in April 1973. The first call he made was to his rival, Joel Engel, Bell Labs head of research. 
Martin Cooper invented the cell (mobile) phone. He was the first one to make a call and speak on his moble phone. Mr Cooper, born December 26, 1928, wanted people to be able … to carry their phones with them anywhere. Dr. Cooper may have invented the idea for the first commercial mobile phone, but the first actual working handheld cell phone was built by Oren Verble, a Kennedy Space Center rocket tech.
Cooper led a team that designed the first practical cell phone. It was called the Motorola DynaTAC, and it still wasn't a tiny device -- it was 9 inches (22.9 centimeters) long and weighed 2.5 pounds (1.1 kilograms). 
Your question has two answers. The phone was invented in 1889 by Bell. The cell phone idea began in the 1930's, but in 1947 Bell Labs made a cell type phone. The first cell phone inventor id given to Dr. Martin Cooper of Motorola in 1974. Dr. Cooper may have invented the idea for the first commercial mobile phone, but the first actual working handheld cell phone was built by Oren Verble, a Kennedy Space Center rocket tech.