The power of Google Chrome’s browser is in its simplicity and customization options. You can open a new tab by simply clicking on the next blank tab to the right of other open tabs (hover your mouse over it and it displays “New tab”). The browser settings feature is another way to open new and recently used tabs quickly. Click on the settings icon -- displaying “Customize and control Google Chrome.” From here, you can open a new tab, one or more recently closed tabs or your favorite sites. You can also set your Chrome browser to ignore the “new tabs” page and instead, open with your favorite tabs already loaded
Open a new tab. 1  Click the icon next to the last tab, which opens the New Tab page. 2  To open a link in a new tab, press Ctrl (Windows and Linux) or ⌘ (Mac) on your keyboard when you click the link. 1 To open a link in a new tab, press Ctrl (Windows and Linux) or ⌘ (Mac) on your keyboard when you click the link. 2  Related tabs are grouped together.
Let us change that behavior as well and let us do that for Google because that’s what most of us use. Step 1: Log in to your Google account and navigate to the Search settings window. Step 2: Scroll to the section reading Where results open and put a check on the new browser window option under it. Step 3: Do not forget to scroll further down and click on Save. That is it! Click on a result and it will open in a new tab.
If you also want to get the old New Tab page back in Google Chrome web browser, check out following simple steps: 1. You'll need to access the hidden secret  Chrome Flags  page to disable this new feature. Just type chrome://flags/ in addressbar of Google Chrome and press Enter. 2. 
Just go there, install it, then click on the wrench in chrome, select extensions, and either select it to open a blank page for you when you hit the new tab button, or specify what page you want it to open when you click new tab. You can configure Chrome with a home page button, (via the Options menu), and if you set clicking the middle mouse button to open in a new tab, you can middle click that icon for opening your homepage in the new tab.
1 Click the icon next to the last tab, which opens the New Tab page. 2  To open a link in a new tab, press Ctrl (Windows and Linux) or ⌘ (Mac) on your keyboard when you click the link. 3  Related tabs are grouped together. 1 To open a link in a new tab, press Ctrl (Windows and Linux) or ⌘ (Mac) on your keyboard when you click the link. 2
How to make google your new tab page. 1) In the address bar type about:config. 2) Type: browser.newtab and double click on browser.newtab.url. 3) In the bar type www.google.ca and click okay. 4) Restart Firefox. 1  Howto & Style. 2  Standard YouTube License. 