Today's Top Stories. A Nesquehoning man was arrested and charged Tuesday after a robbery at Wells Fargo bank at Fairlane Village mall, Norwegian Township. Trooper Chad Smith of the state police at Schuylkill Haven took Steven Mark Cormier, 57, of West Catawissa Street, into c (read more). Schuylkill County officially has sold the former Rest Haven nursing home property. In a deed recorded Tuesday in Pottsville, the county sold the North Manheim Township property, which is located behind Penn State Schuylkill, to 401 University LP, Lakewood
Schuylkill County (pronounced /ˈskuːlkɪl/ , locally /ˈskuːkəl/) is a county in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. As of the 2010 census, the population was 148,289. The county seat is Pottsville. The county was created on March 1, 1811 from parts of Berks, Northampton, and Northumberland Counties and named for the Schuylkill River. Schuylkill County comprises the Pottsville, PA Micropolitan Statistical Area. It is located in the heart of the anthracite Coal Region of Eastern Pennsylvania. The Schuylkill County Sheriff's Department in Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania consists of the Sheriff's Office, Security Guard Service, and Central Booking. The Sheriff's Office is composed of a Civil and Criminal Division.
Schuylkill County Municipal. 20 S 21st St Pottsville, PA 17901. 
POTTSVILLE AND SCHUYLKILL COUNTY, PENNSYLVANIA. Many of the County Links on the left will keep you specifically in Pottsville and Schuylkill County, the heart of the coal country in northeastern PA. We add new listings and links on a regular basis. Find Any Town. Many of the County Links on the left will keep you specifically in Pottsville and Schuylkill County, the heart of the coal country in northeastern PA. We add new listings and links on a regular basis.
Introduction. The Pennsylvania CareerLink at Pottsville is the connecting link between hundreds of county residents who come to the PA CareerLink weekly to search for jobs, upgrade their skills and look for new careers and Pottsville businesses that want to hire them. 
Pottsville is a city in, and the county seat of, Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania, United States. The population was 14,324 at the 2010 census, and is the principal city of the Pottsville, PA Micropolitan Statistical Area. The city lies along the west bank of the Schuylkill River, 97 miles (156 km) north-west of Philadelphia.
Schuylkill County Prison is in Schuylkill County, PA and is the primary correctional facility for this area. You need to call the Schuylkill County Prison or the County Courthouse. If you’ve got the person’s info, such as name, address and date of birth, they’ll be able to let you know the bail amount. Also, you can see the bail amount on the Schuylkill County Prison website.
Welcome to Schuylkill County, Pennsylvania. Inside you will find visitor information for your next trip. As a popular outdoor destination, Schuylkill County features-Three State Parks, Seven Campgrounds, the Appalachian Trail, the Little Schuylkill River, Sweet Arrow Lake County Park and Hawk Mountain Sanctuary. The Schuylkill County Fair, the Pottsville Car Cruise and ethnic and community festivals will add a special flavor to your trip. Use this website to build your itinerary or request an Official Visitor Guide. We invite you to spend a couple days in our community, and learn why so many people visit us again and again.