Dinosaurs types are many and varied, from small bird-like creatures to the largest animals ever to walk on Earth. The subject of blockbuster films, history museum exhibits and much more, dinosaurs continue to interest people today after first appearing approximately 230 million years ago. These vertebrate animals dominated the land for more than 160 million years before experiencing a catastrophic extinction at the end of the Cretaceous period 65 million years ago. The first dinosaur was recognized in the 19th century and ever since, dinosaurs have been the source of many questions.
In 1888, a man named Harry Seeley proposed a way of classifying dinosaurs into two groups by looking at their hip structure, these groups are called Saurischia (lizard hipped) and Ornithischia (bird hipped). The two groups can be further broken down into sub-groups such as families, sub-families and so on. Let’s take a look at some of the interesting sub-groups and examples of the dinosaurs that are part of them. Saurischia (lizard hipped dinosaurs). Theropods-The name Theropod means ‘beast foot’ and this group includes all of the carnivorous (meat eating) dinosaurs.
A-Z Dinosaurs List. This list of dinosaurs is a complete listing of all dinosaurs genera that have ever been included in the super order Dinosaurian, not including class Aves (birds, both living and those known only from fossils) and merely vernacular terms. Many listed dinosaurs have since been reclassified as everything from birds to crocodilians to petrified wood. The list contains 1278 names, of which approximately 888 are considered either valid dinosaur genera or nomina dubia.
Skorpiovenator, the scorpion hunter (Wikimedia Commons). Not all dinosaurs have equally impressive names: it takes a particular type of paleontologist to come up with a name that's so striking, so descriptive, that it forever fixes a dinosaur in the public imagination, no matter how scant the fossil evidence might be. 
So, seismosaurus, the longest dinosaur, was named earth shaker lizard.. The saurus part is a tradition that goes back to the name first given to these creatures — dinosaur — which means terrible lizard. Of course they're not lizards but the name has stuck. The longest dinosaur name of all is micropachycephalosaurus which means little thick-headed lizard.. Its a dome-headed little dinosaur. The shortest dinosaur name is Minmi an Australian armored dinosaur named for Minmi Crossing where it was found. These are all GENUS names, the group to which the dinosaurs belong
Mounted skeletons of Tyrannosaurus (left) and Apatosaurus (right) at the AMNH. This list of dinosaurs is a comprehensive listing of all genera that have ever been included in the superorder Dinosauria, excluding class Aves (birds, both living and those known only from fossils) and purely vernacular terms. There is no official, canonical list of dinosaur genera. The closest is the Dinosaur Genera List, compiled by biological nomenclature expert George Olshevsky, which was first published online in 1995 and is regularly updated. The most authoritative general source in the field is the second (2004) edition of The Dinosauria
Many listed names have been reclassified as everything from birds to crocodilians to petrified wood. The list contains 1449 names, of which approximately 1117 are considered either valid dinosaur genera or nomina dubia. There is no official, canonical list of dinosaur genera. The closest is the Dinosaur Genera List, compiled by biological nomenclature expert George Olshevsky, which was first published online in 1995 and is regularly updated. The most authoritative general source in the field is the second (2004) edition of The Dinosaur
The list includes all commonly accepted genera, but also genera that are now considered invalid, doubtful (nomen dubium), or were not formally published (nomen nudum), as well as junior synonyms of more established names, and genera that are no longer considered dinosaurs. There is no official, canonical list of dinosaur genera. The closest is the Dinosaur Genera List, compiled by biological nomenclature expert George Olshevsky, which was first published online in 1995 and is regularly updated. The most authoritative general source in the field is the second (2004) edition of The Dinosauria
Check out our list of dinosaur kinds for kids which includes some of the most well known types of dinosaurs. From ferocious Theropods such as the Tyrannosaurus rex and Spinosaurus to huge Sauropods such as the Diplodocus and Brachiosaurus. Let’s take a look at some of the interesting sub-groups and examples of the dinosaurs that are part of them. Saurischia (lizard hipped dinosaurs). Theropods-The name Theropod means ‘beast foot’ and this group includes all of the carnivorous (meat eating)