While the ideal gas law deals with macroscopic quantities of gas, the kinetic molecular theory shows how individual gas particles interact with one another. The kinetic molecular theory contains a number of statements compatible with the assumptions of the ideal gas law. It is worthwhile to list them here: 
The kinetic theory describes a gas as a large number of submicroscopic particles (atoms or molecules), all of which are in constant, random motion. The rapidly moving particles constantly collide with each other and with the walls of the container. Kinetic theory explains macroscopic properties of gases, such as pressure, temperature, viscosity, thermal conductivity, and volume, by considering their molecular composition and motion. The temperature of an ideal monatomic gas is proportional to the average kinetic energy of its atoms. The size of helium atoms relative to their spacing is shown to scale under 1950 atmospheres of pressure. The atoms have a certain, average speed, slowed down here two trillion fold from room temperature.
n. A theory of the thermodynamic behavior of matter, especially the relationships among pressure, volume, and temperature in gases, based on the dependence of temperature on the kinetic energy of the rapidly moving particles of a substance. n. 1. (General Physics) the kinetic theory a theory of gases postulating that they consist of particles of negligible size moving at random and undergoing elastic collisions. In full: the kinetic theory of gases.
1 Assumptions or postulates of the kinetic molecular theory of gases are. 2  Gases consist of large number of identical particles (atoms or molecules) that are so small and so far apart on the average that the actual volume of the molecules is negligible in comparison to the empty space between them. 
The Kinetic Molecular Theory (KMT) is a model used to explain the behavior of matter. It is based on a series of postulates. Some of the postulates of KMT are as follows: 1  Matter is made of particles that are constantly in motion. 2  This energy in motion is called kinetic energy. 
The last postulate of the kinetic molecular theory states that the average kinetic energy of a gas particle depends only on the temperature of the gas. Thus, the average kinetic energy of the gas particles increases as the gas becomes warmer. The experimental observations about the behavior of gases discussed so far can be explained with a simple theoretical model known as the kinetic molecular theory. This theory is based on the following postulates, or assumptions.
A theory of the thermodynamic behavior of matter, especially the relationships among pressure, volume, and temperature in gases, based on the dependence of temperature on the kinetic energy of the rapidly moving particles of a substance. 1. (General Physics) the kinetic theory a theory of gases postulating that they consist of particles of negligible size moving at random and undergoing elastic collisions. In full: the kinetic theory of gases.
Definition of KINETIC THEORY. : either of two theories in physics based on the fact that the minute particles of a substance are in vigorous motion: a: a theory that the temperature of a substance increases with an increase in either the average kinetic energy of the particles or the average potential energy of separation (as in fusion) of the .... 
The theory posits that gas pressure is due to the impacts, on the walls of a container, of molecules or atoms moving at different velocities. Kinetic theory defines temperature in its own way, not identical with the thermodynamic definition. Under a microscope, the molecules making up a liquid are too small to be visible, but the jittering motion of pollen grains or dust particles can be seen.