1 Marijuana refers to the dried leaves, flowers, stems, and seeds from the hemp plant, Cannabis sativa. 2  The plant contains the mind-altering chemical delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and other related compounds. 3  People use marijuana by smoking, eating, drinking, and inhaling it. 1 The plant contains the mind-altering chemical delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and other related compounds. 2  People use marijuana by smoking, eating, drinking, and inhaling it. 3  Smoking THC-rich extracts from the marijuana plant (a practice called dabbing) is on the rise.
The difference is in its use. Hemp and Marijuana both come from the same plant-Cannabis Sativa L. The term 'Hemp' commonly refers to the industrial/commercial use of the cannabis stalk and seed for textiles, foods, papers, body care products, detergents, plastics and building materials. However, since the 1950s it has been lumped into the same category of marijuana, and thus the extremely versatile crop was doomed in the United States. Industrial hemp is technically from the same species of plant that psychoactive marijuana comes from. However, it is from a different variety, or subspecies that contains many important difference
What is marijuana. Marijuana refers to the dried leaves, flowers, stems, and seeds from the hemp plant, Cannabis sativa. The plant contains the mind-altering chemical delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and other related compounds. Extracts with high amounts of THC can also be made from the cannabis plant (see  Marijuana Extracts ). 1 The plant contains the mind-altering chemical delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and other related compounds. 2  People use marijuana by smoking, eating, drinking, and inhaling it. 3  Smoking THC-rich extracts from the marijuana plant (a practice called dabbing) is on the rise.
Cannabis is used in three main forms: marijuana, hashish and hash oil. Marijuana is made from dried flowers and leaves of the cannabis plant. It is the least potent of all the cannabis products and is usually smoked or made into edible products like cookies or brownies (see Factsheet: Marijuana Edibles). Hashish is made from the resin (a secreted gum) of the cannabis plant. It is dried and pressed into small blocks and smoked. It can also be added to food and eaten. Hash oil, the most potent cannabis product, is a thick oil obtained from hashish. It is also smoked.
Marijuana is derived from a hemp plant that is called Cannabis Sativa. This plant is being grown indoors and outdoors all over the world. Marijuana looks like a flowery, leafy, or bud-like substance which can appear similar to tobacco, with the exception of the greenish color. 
Marijuana is  derived from the Mexican word maraguanquo which means  intoxicating plant. Some people site historical inf … ormation in  which the name was used to create an evil or unpatrioitc image  for use of cannabis or other THC containing compounds .I'd like  more details about this mexican word. Cannabis is the latin name for marijuana, derived from Kaneh Bosm, which is Hebrew for smelly plant. Marijuana is an American racial slur attributing the plant to Mexican im … migrants in the 1930's and 40's. It is literally translated into Mary Jane.
Cannabis is derived from the cannabis plant (cannabis sativa). It grows wild in many of the tropical and temperate areas of the world. Hashish is made from the resin (a secreted gum) of the cannabis plant. It is dried and pressed into small blocks and smoked. It can also be added to food and eaten. Hash oil, the most potent cannabis product, is a thick oil obtained from hashish. It is also smoked.
Marijuana  or  marihuana , etc., is a name for the cannabis plant and a drug preparation made from it. The form marihuana is first attested in Mexican Spanish; it then spread to other varieties of Spanish and to English, French, and other languages. Through the early 20th century, however, both the drug and the plant were more commonly known as  cannabis  or  hemp . Marihuana's currency in American English increased dramatically in the 1930s, when it was preferred as an exotic-sounding alternative name during the debates of the drug's use.
Confidence votes 32. Marijuana is the dried buds (and leaves too, sometimes) of the Cannabis Sativa plant. Unlike drugs like heroin, cocaine, or LSD, marijuana does not need to be synthesized or specially prepared. The dried buds themselves are smoked through a pipe, bong, joint, blunt, etc. 