Vegetable Safety. Eating vegetables infected with mold, yeast or bacteria can result in serious illness or even death. Some symptoms of food poisoning from old vegetables include vomiting and diarrhea, sometimes accompanied by a fever. Mold on vegetables also causes respiratory problems when you inhale the spores. Discard soft, watery vegetables that have an unusual smell, black spots or a fuzzy growth. 
Broccoli contains isothiocyanate, which is a gastric irritant. It's also what causes broccoli toxicity in animals. Broccoli fed in very small amounts-less than 5% of your dog's daily food intake-is fine and safe. Broccoli in large amounts is not a good idea and can make your dog very sick. There's a lot of argument whether dogs do or don't need vegetables in their diet.
Answer by Darthdoggy. Confidence votes 342. if its spoiled, it has bad bacteria in/on it, which will probably make you sick. but if you boil it in boiling water for at least 10 minutes, that should kill anything. (but still, eew). If the greens are not too spoiled to make a person sick, the dog  will probably be okay too. Overall though, feeding your dog spoiled  food is a bad practice. Bacteria can m … ake them sick too.
if its spoiled, it has bad bacteria in/on it, which will probably make you sick. but if you boil it in boiling water for at least 10 minutes, that should kill anything. Drinking spoiled milk is a very unsafe practice since expired milk  can be contaminated by dangerous bacteria which can make you very  sick. Don't risk it, toss the milk if … you have any doubt about  whether it's still good and go get new milk
This is the most important step! You need broccoli that are FRESH and crisp. Limp, old broccoli will make nasty tasting frozen broccoli. Broccoli are of the best quality when they are tight, before the florets start to open or turn yellow. If you like frozen broccoli in the winter, just imagine how good it would taste if you had picked a head yourself and then quickly froze it at home! It is also one of the simplest ways to put up a vegetable for the winter. Here's how to do it, complete instructions in easy steps and completely illustrated.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: No you can eat raw frozen vegetables (bit hard on the teeth but quits safe) when preparing a rice or potato salad always add frozen peas, corn,ready diced carrot, . direct from freezer. they help to keep salad cold and have a fresh delicious taste. 
Broccoli. Broccoli is a hardy vegetable of the cabbage family that is high in vitamins A and D. It develops best during cool seasons of the year. When broccoli plants of most varieties are properly grown and harvested, they can yield over an extended period. Side heads develop after the large, central head is removed.
It turns out that dogs don’t need vegetables, or broccoli, nearly as much we do. That isn’t to say that feeding your dog some broccoli, on occasion, is a bad thing. While this healthy plant isn’t required eating, you can sometimes allow your best buddy to chow down on small amounts of broccoli. You just shouldn’t make it part of their regular meals.