A rubella blood test detects antibodies that are made by the immune system to help kill the rubella virus. These antibodies remain in the bloodstream for years. The presence of certain antibodies means a recent infection, a past infection, or that you have been vaccinated against the disease. A test for rubella is done to find out if: 1  A woman who is or wants to become pregnant is immune to rubella. 2  A recent infection was caused by the rubella virus. 3  A person has been vaccinated against rubella. 4  Health professionals who are in contact with pregnant women have had rubella.
Measles and mumps tests may be used to: 1  Confirm that a person is immune to the viruses due to previous infections or vaccination. 2  Diagnose an active case of measles or mumps. 3  Detect, monitor, and track outbreaks for public health purposes. A few different methods are available to test for measles or mumps: Antibody testing (serology). Antibody testing may be used to confirm immunity, diagnose an active case, or to track outbreaks. Measles and mumps antibodies are virus-specific proteins produced by the immune system in response to an infection by the measles or mumps virus, or in response to vaccination
Tests and diagnosis. The rubella rash can look like many other viral rashes. So doctors usually confirm rubella with the help of laboratory tests. You may have a virus culture or a blood test, which can detect the presence of different types of rubella antibodies in your blood. These antibodies indicate whether you've had a recent or past infection or a rubella vaccine. 1  Preparing for your appointment.
Measles or mumps IgM and IgG antibody tests, viral culture, or PCR may be ordered when a person has characteristic signs and symptoms of measles or mups or has had exposure to someone with the virus and now has a fever and some symptoms that could be due to measles or mumps. A few different methods are available to test for measles or mumps: Antibody testing (serology). Antibody testing may be used to confirm immunity, diagnose an active case, or to track outbreaks. Measles and mumps antibodies are virus-specific proteins produced by the immune system in response to an infection by the measles or mumps virus, or in response to vaccination
MMR stands for Measles, Mumps and Rubella (German Measles). The MMR Titer is a blood test that checks if you are immune to Measles, Mumps and Rubella.
An IgG antibody test for measles or mumps may be ordered whenever a health practitioner wants to determine whether a person is immune to one or both of the viruses, either because of a previous infection or due to vaccination. A few different methods are available to test for measles or mumps: Antibody testing (serology). Antibody testing may be used to confirm immunity, diagnose an active case, or to track outbreaks. Measles and mumps antibodies are virus-specific proteins produced by the immune system in response to an infection by the measles or mumps virus, or in respons
Tests and diagnosis. Your doctor can usually diagnose measles based on the disease's characteristic rash as well as a small, bluish-white spot on a bright red background — Koplik's spot — on the inside lining of the cheek. If necessary, a blood test can confirm whether the rash is truly measles. 
This test looks for antibodies to three diseases: measles, mumps, and rubella. The test can find out whether you are immune to the three diseases. All three are quite contagious. If you've had them or been vaccinated against them, your immune system made antibodies to fight the viruses that cause them. You may need this test if you are a college student to prove to your college or university that you are immune to measles, mumps, and rubella. You also might have this test to diagnose measles, mumps, or rubella. Symptoms of measles include congestion, cough, fever, and a rash all over your body. Some people don't have the classic symptoms but have measles antibodies in their blood