Pyramid Effect Q: I have very long and curly hair. I have the straight across the bottom blunt cut, so my hair is all one length. Yes, I am also experiencing the pyramid effect. I don't want to do layers; my mom has the same hair I do, and she looked like Beethoven when she did her hair in layers. I heard that I can get rid of the pyramid by rounding the bottom instead of trimming straight across.
You can do this with dry or wet hair, but I find it wet hair easier to section off and grab. Also, the scissor blades drag less on wet hair, so I don’t feel the drag as much when I’m slicing. It’s a weird sensation, like my hair is Velcro and I’m tearing it off itself. Get a job, hair. PREP. It takes a while--way longer than if you went to a salon and were like, “Just need something to get rid of all this bulk, Johnny!” Take a night off to just confine yourself to your bathroom with some candles, a pair of shears, and maybe …Baby One More Time on compact disc. Good lighting is a must.
Specific haircuts can also increase or decrease your poof, given that they increase or decrease your bulk. For example, a blunt cut creates more volume and leaves a pyramid or triangle shaped ‘do for curlies. This haircut is prone to the notorious poof as the bulk of your hair is situated in a small space. On the other hand, layers can often cut down on the amount of bulk, thus reducing a poofy look. 1 Trim hair to desired length. 2  It’s important that you take the time to cut each curl one at a time and straight across. 3  Using a mirror, pull trimmed curls out straight and double check their length. 4  Be sure that your hair is trimmed evenly.
1 Start attaching the darkest extensions at the bottom of the back of the head…. the nape area. 2  Make sure to leave 1 1/2″ from hair line before you start your row to hide the bonds. 3  Do 1 or 2 complete rows with darkest color. 4  Pack the extensions close together in the bottom rows for fullness. Favored by professional Stylists. 1  Instead of gluing the extensions onto your own hair strand...the Micro Ring System simply uses small beads, or rings, to attach the extention to your own hair! 2  The extensions have a tip called and I-Tip which is shaped like a shoe-lace tip and is threaded into the micro ring.
1 Add texture! 2  Using either texturizing or thinning scissors, separate the hair into 1-inch pieces. 3  Hold each piece away from your head and use the shears on the bottom third of your hair. 4  This will help to reduce bulk. 1 Trim hair to desired length. 2  It’s important that you take the time to cut each curl one at a time and straight across. 3  Using a mirror, pull trimmed curls out straight and double check their length. 4  Be sure that your hair is trimmed evenly.
1 Hold each piece away from your head and use the shears on the bottom third of your hair. 2  This will help to reduce bulk. 3  It’s important that you work from the back of the head toward the crown. 4  After you’re done texturizing, shake your curls out to ensure there are no uneven spots on your head. 1 Trim hair to desired length. 2  It’s important that you take the time to cut each curl one at a time and straight across. 3  Using a mirror, pull trimmed curls out straight and double check their length. 4  Be sure that your hair is trimmed evenly.
ASK FOR: 1  the haircut you want, and then some subtle layers added to it. 2  Short layers don’t mean that your top layer is short in length. 3  Short (when describing layers) simply defines the distance between one layer and the next. 4  Think of it like this– it’s just a “short distance” to the next layer. 
THE TECHNIQUE. I clipped my hair up, leaving the bottom section free, combed neatly to monitor the length. Starting from about three inches up the hair shaft, I placed an inch-wide section of hair between the blades of my shears and slid down, pressing slightly. Get a job, hair. PREP. It takes a while--way longer than if you went to a salon and were like, “Just need something to get rid of all this bulk, Johnny!” Take a night off to just confine yourself to your bathroom with some candles, a pair of shears, and maybe …Baby One More Time on compact disc. Good lighting is a must.