Antarctic Circle, imaginary circle on the surface of the earth at 661/2°S lat., i.e., 231/2° north of the South Pole. It marks the southernmost point at which the sun can be seen at the winter solstice (about June 22) and the northernmost point of the southern polar regions at which the midnight sun is visible. 1 Antarctic Circle: meaning and definitions-Antarctic Circle: Definition and Pronunciation. 2  The Seasons-The Seasons The seasons are caused by the tilt of Earth's axis (23.4°) and not by the fact ...
Antarctic Circle. n. 1. (Physical Geography) the imaginary circle around the earth, parallel to the equator, at latitude 66° 32' S; it marks the southernmost point at which the sun appears above the level of the horizon at the winter solstice.
The Arctic Circle is a region on Earth that is marked as one of the five major circles of latitude on maps of our planet. It is located between the Arctic to its north and the Northern Temperate Zone to its south. Its counterpart in the Southern Hemisphere is known as the Antarctic Circle. In addition to the Antarctic Circle, the other three major latitude lines are the Tropic of Cancer, the Tropic of Capricorn, and the Equator. The Arctic Circle is the farthest southern region that experiences polar day and polar night
Due to gradual changes in the tilt of the Earth's axis, the Antarctic Circle is slowly moving. It is currently moving southward at a rate of approximately 15 metres (49 ft) per year. See circles of latitude for further details. The equivalent line of latitude in the northern hemisphere is the Arctic Circle. The Antarctic Circle is the northernmost latitude in the Southern Hemisphere at which the sun can remain continuously above or below the horizon for 24 hours.
The Antarctic Circle is one of the five major circles (or parallels) of latitude that mark maps of the Earth. As of 21 October 2015, it runs 66°33′45.9″ south of the Equator. The equivalent line of latitude in the northern hemisphere is the Arctic Circle. The Antarctic Circle is the northernmost latitude in the Southern Hemisphere at which the sun can remain continuously above or below the horizon for 24 hours.
The Arctic Circle is one of the five major circles of latitude that mark maps of the Earth. As of 21 October 2015, it runs 66°33′45.9″ north of the Equator. The climate inside the Arctic Circle is generally cold, but the coastal areas of Norway have a generally mild climate as a result of the Gulf Stream, which makes the ports of northern Norway and northwest Russia ice-free all year long. In the interior, summers can be quite warm, while winters are extremely cold.
The Arctic Circle is the southernmost latitude in the Northern Hemisphere at which the sun can remain continuously above or below the horizon for 24 hours (at the June solstice and December solstice respectively). The climate inside the Arctic Circle is generally cold, but the coastal areas of Norway have a generally mild climate as a result of the Gulf Stream, which makes the ports of northern Norway and northwest Russia ice-free all year long. In the interior, summers can be quite warm, while winters are extremely cold.
Antarctic Circle. The Antarctic (or Antarctica) Circle is one of the five major circles or parallels of latitude that mark maps of the Earth. Shown on the image above with a dashed red line, this parallel of latitude sits at approximately 66.33° south of the Equator. 