Scout's definition of Fine Folks is based on what their actions are (something they have control over), while Aunt Alexandra's is based on their family history (uh, can't help the crazy cousins). No rags-to-riches stories for her. If Uncle Atticus lets you run around with stray dogs, that's his own business, like Grandma says, so it ain't your fault. I guess it ain't your fault if Uncle Atticus is a nigger-lover besides, but I'm here to tell you it certainly does mortify the rest of the family- Francis, what the hell do you mean?.
Character Analysis. Aunt Alexandra is so different from her easy-going brothers Atticus and Jack that Scout wonders if she was switched at birth with another family's baby. She's kind of woman who wears a corset even under her bathrobe. (You know the type. Aunt Alexandra's vision of my deportment involved playing with small stoves, tea sets, and wearing the Add-A-Pearl necklace she gave me when I was born; furthermore, I should be a ray of sunshine in my father's lonely life.
The Cunninghams could always be trusted, and the Ewells were always dishonest, according to the townsfolk. Aunt Alexandra wholeheartedly believes this. She tries to stop Scout and Jem playing with the Cunningham children because of their lack of 'background'. Aunt Alexandra also believed the Ewells to be 'trash'. So, in answer to your question, Aunt Alexandra believed that background and family traits were the most important factor that defined a person. Aunt Alexandra wants Atticus to impress upon the children that they are not just anybody; they are a family with a rich history and proud heritage, so they should behave like … a lady and gentleman. The outcome of the talk isn't so good.
In the end, however, family affection that looms largest for Aunt Alexandra. After Tom is shot trying to escape, Alexandra tells Miss Maudie, I can't say I approve of everything he does, Maudie, but he's my brother, and I just want to know when this will ever end. […] It tears him to pieces (24.76). Aunt Alexandra's vision of my deportment involved playing with small stoves, tea sets, and wearing the Add-A-Pearl necklace she gave me when I was born; furthermore, I should be a ray of sunshine in my father's lonely life.
Bob Ewell’s threats are worrisome to everyone except Atticus. Atticus tells Jem and Scout that because he made Ewell look like a fool, Ewell needed to get revenge. Now that Ewell has gotten that vengefulness out of his system, Atticus expects no more trouble. Aunt Alexandra and the children remain worried. 
Posted on. (Answer #1). Aunt Alexandra comes to stay with Atticus and the Finch children because of the Tom Robinson trial for the most part. Atticus will be very busy during the trial and won't have time to take care of the kids even with Calpurnia's help.
Atticus tells Jem and Scout to forget about this conversation because he does not agree with what Aunt Alexandra wants Jem and Scout to hear. I believe that Atticus is completely right because I don't believe that people shouldn't be able to have certain opportunities based on their background. 
Best Answer: at one point Aunt Alexandra says that all the family has is background.. She is also described as looking formidable in her Sunday corset. Sorry I can't be of more help, I don't have a cop of the book and I haven't read it since year 11. So I'm doing a character analysis on Aunt Alexandra and i need quotes, character info, symbolism, etc. I have the basic idea of some of her personalities. Like how she is strong, independent but under her cold demeanor, she is a caring person that only wants the best for people.