Submit Corrections Cancel. I see trees of green, red roses, too, I see them bloom, for me and you. And I think to myself. What a wonderful world. I see skies of blue, and clouds of white, The bright blessed day, the dark sacred night. And I think to myself. What a wonderful world. The colors of the rainbow, so pretty in the sky, Are also on the faces of people going by
(What a) Wonderful World redirects here. For the Louis Armstrong song, see What a Wonderful World.  Wonderful World  (occasionally referred to as  (What A) Wonderful World ) is a song by American singer-songwriter Sam Cooke. Released on April 14, 1960 by Keen Records, it had been recorded during an impromptu session the previous year, Cooke's last recording session at Keen Records. He signed with RCA Victor in 1960 and Wonderful World, then unreleased, was issued as a single in competition. The song was mainly composed by songwriting team Lou Adler and Herb Alpert, but Cooke revised the lyrics to mention the subject of education mor
Who sing the song It's a wonderful world? Frank Sinatra has a song called It's A Wonderful World, but you are probably thinking of What a Wonderful World by Louis Armstrong. 
What a Wonderful World  is a song written by Bob Thiele (as George Douglas) and George David Weiss. Tony Bennett did go on to cover What A Wonderful World several times, as in 2003 with K.D. Lang, paying homage to Bennett's friend Armstrong. ABC Records' European distributor EMI forced ABC to issue a What a Wonderful World album in 1968 (catalogue number ABCS-650).
(November 2013).  What a Wonderful World  is a song written by Bob Thiele (as George Douglas) and George David Weiss. It was first recorded by Louis Armstrong and released in 1967 as a single, which topped the pop charts in the United Kingdom. Thiele and Weiss were both prominent in the music world (Thiele as a producer and Weiss as a composer/performer). Armstrong's recording was inducted in the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1999. The publishing for this song is controlled by Memory Lane Music Group, Carlin Music Corp. and BMG Rights Management. Tony Bennett did go on to cover What A Wonderful World several times, as in 2003 with K.D. Lang, paying homage to Bennett's friend Armstrong. ABC Records' European distributor EMI forced ABC to issue a What a Wonderful World album in 1968 (catalogue number ABCS-650).
read more. What a Wonderful World is a song by Bob Thiele (using the pseudonym George Douglas) and George David Weiss. It was first recorded by Louis Armstrong and released as a single in 1968, and was inducted in the Grammy Hall of Fame in 1999. What a Wonderful World is a song by Bob Thiele (using the pseudonym George Douglas) and George David Weiss
Embed sharethemessage 100100 views 2013-06-26T13:14:04 God blessed 12 year-old Noelle with an incredible voice! Just listen to her sing the beautiful classic What a Wonderful World.. It will remind you that there is still so much of God's beauty around us...and it will give you goosebumps! 
Influential ukulele player and Hawaiian national treasure Israel Kamakawiwo'ole sings the classic song What a Wonderful World. In addition to his accomplishments as a vocalist, he is also celebrated for blending other genres of music into his work. 