The treatment for pinkeye depends on the cause. 1  Bacteria. 2  Pinkeye caused by bacteria, including those related to STDs, is treated with antibiotics, in the form of eye drops, ointments, or pills. 3  Eye drops or ointments may need to be applied to the inside of the eyelid three to four times a day for five to seven days. The symptoms of pinkeye differ based on the cause of the inflammation, but may include: 1  Redness in the white of the eye or inner eyelid. 2  Increased amount of tears. 3  Thick yellow discharge that crusts over the eyelashes, especially after sleep. 4  Green or white discharge from the eye.
Conjunctivitis is often called pink eye or red eye because it can cause the white of the eye to take on a pink or red color. The most common causes of conjunctivitis are viruses, bacteria, and allergens. Viral conjunctivitis. 1  Can be caused by a number of different viruses, many of which may be associated with an upper respiratory tract infection, cold, or sore throat. 2  Usually begins in one eye and may progress to the second eye within days. 3  Spreads easily and rapidly between people and can result in epidemics.
Common causes of bacterial conjunctivitis, an inflammation of the bulbar and/or palpebral conjunctivas, include staphylococci, streptococci, gonococci, and Chlamydia. Complications are expected to develop only in cases caused by extremely pathogenic bacteria, such as C trachomatis or Neisseria gonorrhoeae. Background. Inflammation of the bulbar and/or palpebral conjunctiva, or conjunctivitis, can be caused by allergies, viruses, or bacteria. Bacterial conjunctivitis is commonly caused by staphylococci, streptococci, chlamydial organism, and gonococci.
Conjunctivitis when caused by an infection is most commonly caused by a viral infection. Bacterial infections, allergies, other irritants and dryness are also common causes. Both bacterial and viral infections are contagious and passed from person to person, but can also spread through contaminated objects or water. Conjunctivitis, also known as pink eye is inflammation of the conjunctiva (the outermost layer of the eye and the inner surface of the eyelids).
Conjunctivitis is the most common cause of red eye. Most frequently, conjunctivitis (and thus red eye) is caused by a bacterial or viral infection. Sexually transmitted diseases such as chlamydial infection and gonorrhea are less common causes of conjunctivitis. 
Bacterial Conjunctivitis. Bacterial conjunctivitis is caused by infection of the eye with certain bacteria. Bacterial conjunctivitis. 1  Usually begins in one eye and may sometimes progress to the second eye. 2  Is a leading cause of children being absent from day care or school (Patel, 2007). Viral conjunctivitis. 1  Can be caused by a number of different viruses, many of which may be associated with an upper respiratory tract infection, cold, or sore throat. 2  Usually begins in one eye and may progress to the second eye within days. 3  Spreads easily and rapidly between people and can result in epidemics.
(May 2012). Conjunctivitis, also known as pink eye is inflammation of the conjunctiva (the outermost layer of the eye and the inner surface of the eyelids). It is commonly due to an infection (usually viral, but sometimes bacterial or parasitic), or an allergic reaction
Viral Conjunctivitis. Viral conjunctivitis is caused by infection of the eye with a virus. Viral conjunctivitis. 1  Can be caused by a number of different viruses, many of which may be associated with an upper respiratory tract infection, cold, or sore throat. 2  Usually begins in one eye and may progress to the second eye within days. 3  Spreads easily and rapidly between people and can result in epidemics.
Conjunctivitis. Conjunctivitis is an inflammation or infection of the conjunctiva, the thin transparent layer of tissue that lines the inner surface of the eyelid and covers the white part of the eye. Conjunctivitis, often called “pink eye,” is a common eye disease, especially in children. 