1 The average cost for cat vaccinations ranges from $45 to $85 and up in the first year, and from $10 to $35 and up per year afterward. Additional costs: 1  Kittens usually receive a combination vaccine for feline distemper, rhinotracheitis and calcivirus at seven weeks, 10 weeks and 13 weeks, with a separate rabies vaccine at 12 or 13 weeks.
1 Some dog daycare facilities or kennels require vaccinations not included in the standard round of shots, such as for bordatella, known as kennel cough. 2  In certain parts of the country, veterinarians recommend extra vaccinations, such as for Lyme disease. 3  Extra vaccinations usually cost about $10 to $15 or more each. You do pay ten dollars for the vet visit, and then the cost for the vaccines. If they were not servicing Louisville at Feeder's, the cost of rescue pets would prohibit my ability to provide medical service for them.
1 Unvaccinated adult dogs receive two rounds of vaccinations about three weeks apart. 2  After that, dogs usually receive boosters annually. 3  The basic shots -- for distemper, hepatitis, parvovirus, parainfluenza and sometimes leptospirosis and coronavirus -- usually are administered together in a combination vaccine. You do pay ten dollars for the vet visit, and then the cost for the vaccines. If they were not servicing Louisville at Feeder's, the cost of rescue pets would prohibit my ability to provide medical service for them.
Cost at Traditional Veterinarians. Traditional veterinary clinics are the most expensive places to have your pet vaccinated. Most vets will charge an office visit of $35 to $60 in addition to the cost of the vaccines. Individual vaccine costs may range from $20 to $40, and most pets need three annual vaccines. Vaccination at a traditional veterinarian may cost $100 to $200 per pet. 
Shopping for dog vaccination: 1  Most humane societies and shelters include the first rounds of vaccinations in the adoption fee. 2  Tip: It is possible to order vaccines online and vaccinate the dog yourself, but be sure you order from a reliable company. 3  DrsFosterSmith.com has a guide on how to vaccinate a pet. You do pay ten dollars for the vet visit, and then the cost for the vaccines. If they were not servicing Louisville at Feeder's, the cost of rescue pets would prohibit my ability to provide medical service for them.
Average Cost of Pet Vaccinations. The cost for vaccinating puppies or pets in the first year ranges from $20 to $200. Cost of immunization of adult dogs ranges from $60 to $100 annually. Canine vaccination costs differ due to the dog's age and varying vet charges. Since puppies are at a high risk of exposure to disease, puppy vaccinations are recommended as early as 5 weeks of age. Along with the cost of immunizations, pet owners are required to pay additional costs toward laboratory tests, physical examinations and routine parasite treatment or control. The cost of veterinary care for puppies ranges from $100 to $200. Veterinary care for older dogs costs nearly $150 to $250 annually.
What should be included: Additional costs: 1  Kittens usually receive a combination vaccine for feline distemper, rhinotracheitis and calcivirus at seven weeks, 10 weeks and 13 weeks, with a separate rabies vaccine at 12 or 13 weeks. 2  PetEducation.com offers detailed information on vaccines and a typical vaccination schedule for kittens and cats.
1 The average cost for dog vaccinations ranges from $20 to $150 in the first year, and from $10 to $100 per year afterward. You do pay ten dollars for the vet visit, and then the cost for the vaccines. If they were not servicing Louisville at Feeder's, the cost of rescue pets would prohibit my ability to provide medical service for them.