Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Split System Air Conditioner Installation project. For a basic 1 unit project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Split System Air Conditioner ranges between $2,218.50 - $2,891.54 per unit. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased
1 Expect to pay $2,000-$5,000 to install a complete ductless mini-split air conditioning system in a 800-1,000-square foot home, or $5,000-$7,000 for a 2,000-square-foot house. Comments (9). Mini-split or ductless air conditioners are quieter and less visible than window units, and can be less expensive than adding central air to a house that lacks ducts and the space needed to install ducts. Typical costs:
The most common type of mini split air conditioner heat pump is the air source heat pump, which transfers heat between your house and the outside air. If you heat with electricity, a heat pump can trim the amount of electricity you use for heating by as much as 30% - 40%. This will save energy and money. Ductless Mini Split Air conditioner systems are also often easier to install than other types of space mini air conditioning systems. For example, the hook-up between the outdoor and indoor units generally requires only a three-inch hole through a wall for the conduit.
The cost to install a window air conditioner averages between $150 and $300, depending on the size you need. Installing a window air conditioning unit can bring added comfort for a reasonable price, but it will be less powerful than a central air conditioning system. Most homeowners report spending between $3,675 and $7,155 to have air conditioning installed. This price is more typical of a central A/C unit installation rather than a window air conditioner addition which typically averages about $300. Your total cost for the job will depend on the type of system you choose
The Costs. The average cost to install a mini-split air conditioning system is $1,900. The maximum average cost to install a mini-split air conditioning system is $2,100. The minimum average reported cost for mini split-air conditioner installation is $1,700. Continue reading to see more cost considerations for all mini-split air conditioning systems. Furthermore, proper insulating must be done to maximize energy efficiency. When hiring an HVAC company or contractor to install a mini-split air-conditioning system, there are some specific factors that must be taken into account. The cost of the unit itself usually ranges between $1,100 and $1,400.
Ductless Mini Split Air conditioners systems are also often easier to install than other types of space mini air conditioning systems. For example, the hook-up between the outdoor and indoor units generally requires only a three-inch hole through a wall for the conduit. This will save energy and money. Ductless Mini Split Air conditioner systems are also often easier to install than other types of space mini air conditioning systems. For example, the hook-up between the outdoor and indoor units generally requires only a three-inch hole through a wall for the conduit.
1 Electrical wiring to code-Electricians assisting in a ductless air conditioner project will charge from $75-$250 per hour for the installation of a 220 volt receptacle. 2  Additionally, it might cost a bit more if the home's electrical panel also needs a 220 volt circuit added to it, which can cost between $300 and $800. For this discussion, we will consider the costs of installing a ductless or split air conditioning system in a 2,000 square foot home.