In general, cedar shavings, as well as chipped wood mulch of almost any other kind, are preferable to bare soil. Cedar could even be superior to mulch made from species that lack antirot chemicals, because cedar mulches need to be refreshed less often because of their slower rate of decomposition.
Manufacturers use this common by-product in countless ways: to make particleboard or as a fuel source for boilers, for example. If you're working on a home-improvement project, chances are you've got a few piles of sawdust in your garage, too. Here are some ways to keep it out of the trash bin:
I get away with composting a lot of cedar and pine sawdust but I live in a climate that eats organic matter for a snack. It is often hot and wet here so having some slow to rot stuff mixed into the rest is probably a good thing.
It does not matter what kind of wood your sawdust is from. Sawdust from all types of trees, soft or hard, can be used in your compost pile. The one thing to be mindful of is if you will be composting sawdust from chemically treated wood. In this case, you will want to take a few extra steps to ensure that these chemicals work their way out of the compost before you use it in your vegetable garden.
Spill Clean-up. Cedar sawdust is also useful for its absorbent properties and can be used to clean up spills in your garage or basement. Cedar sawdust can absorb spilled liquids such as oil or paint. Simply sprinkle the sawdust on the spill and allow 20 to 30 minutes for absorption.
Animal Uses. Cedar sawdust can be used to create animal bedding for pets and livestock. It can also serve as a litter product. The pleasant aroma of fresh cedar acts as a deodorizer. Cedar sawdust animal bedding also helps to ward off fleas and ticks.
Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Sawdust can be made from virtually any kind of wood, including walnut, maple or cedar. It is typically viewed as a waste product created when cutting, drilling or sawing wood. However, sawdust has many uses in and around the home.