Waist circumference (distance around the waist) is a common measure used to check for fat held around the stomach. Having extra body fat around the stomach-more than 35 in. (88 cm) for women and more than 40 in. (102 cm) for men-increases your risk of heart disease and diabetes. 
Measuring waist to height ratio is gaining popularity in the scientific society as several studies have found that this is a more valid measurement than BMI. Just measuring waist circumference is inherently biased for people taller or shorter than average population. I am exactly your height and waist circumference. My BMI says I'm overweight because I weigh 144. However, since my waist is under 30, it is still considered healthy. I am also moderately active, working out an average of 4 days a week doing a combo of weight training, endurance and cardio-Cross Fit.
Waist to Height Ratio. The waist-to-height ratio is calculated by measuring waist size and dividing it by height, in inches. For example, a man with a 36-inch waist who is 6 feet 3 inches, or 75 inches total, would have a ratio of .48. Doctors are increasingly using BMI in combination with waist circumference to assess a person’s risk. Men with a waist size of more than 40 inches and women with a waist size of more than 35 inches are at increased risk for heart disease and diabetes.
A systematic review of waist-to-height ratio as a screening tool for the prediction of cardiovascular disease and diabetes: 0·5 could be a suitable global boundary value. Browning LM, Hsieh SD, Ashwell M. Nutr Res Rev. 2010 Dec;23(2):247-69. Epub 2010 Sep 7. I am exactly your height and waist circumference. My BMI says I'm overweight because I weigh 144. However, since my waist is under 30, it is still considered healthy. I am also moderately active, working out an average of 4 days a week doing a combo of weight training, endurance and cardio-Cross Fit.
1 If you can keep your waist circumference to less than half of your height so 91cm for a 183cm tall man, and 81cm for a 163cm woman you will reduce your risk of conditions associated with abdominal fat, such as stroke, heart disease and diabetes(High/low blood sugar). Waist to height ratio is a stronger predictor of cardio-metabolic risks than BMI. Waist to height ratio should not be confused with the Waist to hip ratio which has also been used to measure body fat distribution. Waist circumference has a direct correlation with the risk of developing heart diseases.
Ideally, all should aim to keep their waist measurement less than half that of their height, found the scientists. That means a 6ft (72 inch) tall man should aim to keep his waist less than 36 inches, while a 5ft 4in (64 inch) woman should keep hers under 32 inches. They have found that the easy-to-calculate ratio between the two is a better predictor of risk than the most widely measure of obesity, called body mass index (BMI).
Waist to height ratio is a simple measurement for assessment of lifestyle risk and overweight. Compared to just measuring waist circumference, waist to height ratio is equally fair for short and tall persons. This calculator is valid for children and adults. I am exactly your height and waist circumference. My BMI says I'm overweight because I weigh 144. However, since my waist is under 30, it is still considered healthy. I am also moderately active, working out an average of 4 days a week doing a combo of weight training, endurance and cardio-Cross Fit.
The average waist size formen has increased 11.4%, from 35 inches to 39 inches.It's clear that, overall, most of us are not maintaining a healthy waist size.Update:How Does the Average American Waist Size Compare to the Average Waist Size of Women in Europe?And the news is not much better for the UK. These studies have found that for every 5 inches that your waist size exceeds the ideal target, your risk for dying from any cause increases 20% to 40%.How to Measure Your Waist Size AccuratelyTo measure your waist, stand in front of a mirror with your feet apart.
Your waist to height ratio is calculated by dividing waist size by height. If your waist measurement is less than half your height, you’re likely not at risk for obesity-related disease. The following chart helps you determine if your WHtR falls in a healthy weight range: 
Waist to height ratio is less accurate than BMI for me. I'm a 17¾ year old male with a BMI of 24.4 (77th percentile — healthy), waist to height ratio of 0.52 (consider action), and body fat percentage of 6.7% (on the verge of underweight) — measured using skinfolds. I am exactly your height and waist circumference. My BMI says I'm overweight because I weigh 144. However, since my waist is under 30, it is still considered healthy. I am also moderately active, working out an average of 4 days a week doing a combo of weight training, endurance and cardio-Cross Fit.