You can shoot any type slug out of a smooth bore barrel, but there is debate on accuracy when using a choke or rifled choke. A Foster slug or what some call an America slug, is designed for a smooth bore barrel. The slug has a deep hollow in the back that allows the center of gravity to be in the front. You can use Sabot slugs in a non-rifled barrel but accuracy and range is diminished. Some weapons allow you to switch barrels, so you can have a smooth bore for lead non-rifled slugs and birdshot and then change out for a rifled barrel, for greater ranges.
DPris. January 11, 2010, 12:14 PM. You CAN shoot lead shot through a rifled barrel without damaging it, BUT you'll pick up plastic shot cup residue in the rifling and the rifling will destroy patterning to the point of uselessness beyond 15 or so yards. In a rifled shotgun barrel, although there are still many who use lead slugs, probably the majority of shooters nowdays are using sabots. Sabots are a conventional bullet encased in a plastic drop-away sleeve.
1 Sabot slugs in a rifled barrel are very accurate. 2  Shooting sabot slugs through a smooth bore is a waste of money. 3  They will “work” but accuracy suffers and there is no reason to spend the extra money for sabot slugs if you are going to shoot them through a smooth bore. Some other types of rifled slugs, like Brenneke slugs, have a solid slug with a lighter-weight base that was attached to the slug. This method worked in the same manner. But with the advent of rifled slug barrels, manufacturers developed a sabot type slug.
Also the facft that you are shooting a rifled slug through a rifled barrel would cause the bullet to become extremely unstable and inaccurate. Rifle barrel sare meant for sabot slugs (slugs with a plastic wad surrounding the outside). Yes, you can shoot rifled slugs out of a smooth-bore barrel with any choke. Pattern with different manufacturer's slugs, and at different distances to see which works best. … Different guns like different ammo so see what yours likes. If it is a smooth-bore, do not use sabots. 7 people found this useful.
First, we will shoot some sabot slugs through a rifled barrel. My friend Vern has a Remington 11-87 with a rifled barrel and a scope. We will be shooting at 50 yards today. Some folks use these shotguns for much longer shots, but this is a more reasonable range for best accuracy. Some other types of rifled slugs, like Brenneke slugs, have a solid slug with a lighter-weight base that was attached to the slug. This method worked in the same manner. But with the advent of rifled slug barrels, manufacturers developed a sabot type slug.
1 Shooting a non-sabot rifled slug through a rifled barrel can cause them to shoot into very nice groups. 2  When we got home and cleaned the rifled barrel, the five non-sabot, rifled slugs had not really deposited any lead that we could notice. 3  The barrel cleaned-up sparkling clean very easily. 4  It’s fun to shoot stuff. Some other types of rifled slugs, like Brenneke slugs, have a solid slug with a lighter-weight base that was attached to the slug. This method worked in the same manner. But with the advent of rifled slug barrels, manufacturers developed a sabot type slug.
Saboted slugs have lead cores with a copper jacket. The rifled slugs are designed to fire through a rifled barrel. The design allows the slug to engage the rifling and spin once it leaves the muzzle. The slugs are bullet shaped and the range is considerably more than a smooth bore shooting slugs. You can use Sabot slugs in a non-rifled barrel but accuracy and range is diminished. Some weapons allow you to switch barrels, so you can have a smooth bore for lead non-rifled slugs and birdshot and then change out for a rifled barrel, for greater ranges.
Rifled Slugs are meant for smooth bore barrels mainly. The rifled slug is made of lead and so if you shoot it through a rifled barrel the lead touching the rifling will cause some of the lead to peal off and can build up over a very short period of time. Yes, you can shoot rifled slugs out of a smooth-bore barrel with any choke. Pattern with different manufacturer's slugs, and at different distances to see which works best. … Different guns like different ammo so see what yours likes. If it is a smooth-bore, do not use sabots. 7 people found this useful.
Some slugs that are rifled are dual purpose for rifled and non rifled barrels like the Brennekes. The proplem with rifled slugs is you have rifling on the slug that may conflict with the rifling in your barrel. Definition of accuracy varies by individual so if it works go with it for you. You will save some money. If you want to milk every ounce out of your rifling you will need to use sabot