Published on Sep 21, 2014. Pure clinoptilolite zeolite concentrate is a powder or liquid dietary supplement used in small quantities to help safely detox the body of heavy metals and various other toxic substances.
Liquid Zeolite You will see the terms “liquid zeolite” and “zeolite powder” when you do zeolite research on the internet. There is a lot of misinformation regarding both. The zeolite is not actually turned into a liquid to make liquid zeolite. There isn't any way to “liquefy” this solid zeolite crystal.
There are three main kinds, fibrous, leafy or crystalline zeolite. Medical use is from crystalline zeolite that contains high quantities of the mineral clinoptilolite. The structure of clinoptilolite consists of silicon oxides and aluminosilicates, with a silicon to aluminum ratio of 4 to 1 in
Natural Cellular Zeolite Powder - 1 container, 454 grams (1 pound) #SKU41. Natural Cellular Powdered Zeolite that we carry is of the highest quality micronized powdered zeolite, used by some MDs and felt by some researchers to be at least as powerful as the liquid when used in therapeutic quantities.
Natural Zeolite Powder is major breakthrough in natural detoxification therapy. It is safe for people of all ages (no side effects), as well as pets and is frequently used for environmental disasters, where time and power is of the essence.
Natural Zeolite Powder has many uses for maintaining a healthy body or healing one that has taken in too many toxins. Not only is the best natural mineral supplement on the planet to get rid of heavy metals like radiation and fluoride, but it also is the Kryptonite to the nastiest of viruses too.
In order for zeolite to be used in any application it has to go through particle reduction after mining. There are two forms of particle reduction for zeolite, milling (resulting in commercial grade) and micronization (resulting in pharmaceutical grade).
Zeolite Powder is a safe, detoxifying, & alkalizing dietary natural supplement. Zeolite is a mineral that is formed when volcanic magna hits fresh or salt water.
Milling zeolite will produce a rough gritty powder. Milled zeolite used in a supplement usually means that the manufacturer did very little in the way of processing the zeolite powder and in turn makes a very inefficient supplement product.
Natural Zeolite Powder is the one substance you can’t afford to be without in today’s world of increasing toxic food and water sources as well as EMF, Cellphone and Nuclear Radiation Exposure.