Dermatitis herpetiformis is a skin rash that occurs in some people with celiac disease; however, only about 20 percent of people with this skin condition have intestinal symptoms of celiac disease. Dermatitis herpetiformis (DH) is a severe, itchy, blistering manifestation of celiac disease. The rash usually occurs on the elbows, knees, and buttocks. Not all people with celiac disease develop this condition. Treatment for Dermatitis Herpetiformis. Both the skin disease and the intestinal disease respond to a gluten-free diet and recur (come back) if gluten is added back into the diet.
7. Dermatitis herpetiformis (DH) is a skin condition where you get a very itchy rash. It is caused by intolerance to a food ingredient called gluten. It can be effectively treated with medication plus a gluten-free diet. DH is linked to a condition called coeliac disease, which is also caused by gluten intolerance. DH is a skin condition causing a very itchy rash. It is due to intolerance to gluten, which is a natural substance (a protein) found in certain foods. Gluten is in wheat, rye, and barley. Gluten intolerance also causes a gut condition called coeliac disease, which is closely linked to DH.
This is not true. Dermatitis herpetiformis occurs in people with celiac disease, which is an allergy or intolerance to gluten. Gluten is a protein found in wheat, rye, barley, and oats. Fifteen to 25 percent of people with celiac disease (also called celiac sprue or gluten-sensitive enteropathy) have DH. An itchy, blistering, burning skin rash, dermatitis herpetiformis (DH) is a difficult condition to live with. The rash and itching occur on the elbows, knees, scalp, back, and buttocks. This rash likely indicates a more serious underlying condition: an allergy to gluten
Dermatitis herpetiformis is an intensely pruritic (itchy) skin disease characterized by eruptions of clusters of small blisters or vesicles (small elevations of the skin containing fluid) and small bumps or papules (small, solid, elevations on the skin). 
Dermatitis herpetiformis (DH), or Duhring's disease, is a chronic blistering skin condition, characterised by blisters filled with a watery fluid. Despite its name, DH is neither related to nor caused by herpes virus: the name means that it is a skin inflammation having an appearance similar to herpes. Characteristic rash. Dermatitis herpetiformis is characterized by intensely itchy, chronic papulovesicular eruptions, usually distributed symmetrically on extensor surfaces (buttocks, back of neck, scalp, elbows, knees, back, hairline, groin, or face). The blisters vary in size from very small up to 1 cm acros
A. Dermatitis herpetiformis is a skin disease caused by an intolerance to gluten. It is a form of celiac disease, the inherited autoimmune intestinal disorder that affects between one in 100 and one in 200 people worldwide. 
Important. It is possible that the main title of the report Dermatitis Herpetiformis is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report. General Discussion. Dermatitis herpetiformis, also known as Duhring disease, is a rare, chronic, skin disorder characterized by the presence of groups of severely itchy (pruritic) blisters and raised skin lesions (papules). These are more common on the knees, elbows, buttocks and shoulder blades.
Medical Care. Treatment of dermatitis herpetiformis (DH) include avoidance of gluten by consuming a gluten-free diet and pharmacotherapy. A gluten-free diet is a lifelong commitment, and adherence to a strict diet is difficult to achieve. Improvement of skin disease with a gluten free diet takes several months. 