The rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta), is one of the best-known species of Old World monkeys. It is listed as Least Concern in the IUCN Red List of Threatened Species in view of its wide distribution, presumed large population, and its tolerance of a broad range of habitats. 1 M. m. lasiota (Gray, 1868), the west Chinese rhesus macaque, is distributed in the west of Sichuan, northwest of Yunnan, and southeast of Qinghai; it is possibly synonymous with M. m. sanctijohannis (Swinhoe, 1867), if not with M. m. mulatta.
All domestic dogs, including pitbulls, belong to the same subspecies: Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Chordata Class: Mammalia Order: Carnivors Family: Canidae Genus: Ca … nis Species: C. lupus Subspecies: C. l. familiaris. 4 people found this useful. It depends on what type of duck but i can tellyou part of its classification. Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Aves Sub-phylum:Vertibrata Class: Anseriformes Order: Antidae That's … as far as I can go unless I know the specifics because there's more than one type of duck.
Animal-Monkey Domain-Eukarya Kingdom-Animalia Phylum-Chordata Class-Mammalia Order-Primates I'm not sure about the family, genus, or species. I think that depends … on the type of monkey. Hope this helps! It depends on what type of duck but i can tellyou part of its classification. Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Aves Sub-phylum:Vertibrata Class: Anseriformes Order: Antidae That's … as far as I can go unless I know the specifics because there's more than one type of duck.
* Classification of the Chicken  *  * Kingdom Animalia  *  * Phylum Chordata  *  * Subphylum Vertebrata  *  * Class Aves (Birds)  *  * Order Gall … iformes  *  * Family Phasianidae  *  * Genus Gallus  *  * Species-G. domesticus. It depends on what type of duck but i can tellyou part of its classification. Kingdom: Animalia Phylum: Aves Sub-phylum:Vertibrata Class: Anseriformes Order: Antidae That's … as far as I can go unless I know the specifics because there's more than one type of duck.
Taxonomy arranges organisms into groups based on similarities. The most inclusive level in the taxonomic hierarchy is a kingdom with can be subdivided into phyla. The phyla can in turn be separated into smaller groups called classes. A class can be subdivided into families and a family into genuses. 
Use a web search and identify the classification names of the Rhesus monkey from kingdom through species. Use the web to search for the name of the phylum a lion would belong to. Use a web search to identify what kingdom a haircap moss is found in. Use http://www.backyardnature.net/ to find the one difference in the classification level of plants and animals. Use http://www.perspective.com/nature/plantae/index.html to identify the 4 classification systems for plants. Use http://www.factmonster.com/ipka/A0768513.html to answer the following:
Taxonomy arranges organisms into groups based on similarities. The most inclusive level in the taxonomic hierarchy is a kingdom with can be subdivided into phyla. The phyla can in turn be separated into smaller groups called classes. A class can be subdivided into families and a family into genuses. A genus can be split into smaller groups called species. Purpose In this webquest, you will explore the classification system currently used to sort and categorize living organisms.
According to Zimmermann’s first description of 1780, the rhesus macaque is distributed in eastern Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, as far east as the Brahmaputra Valley in peninsular India, Nepal and northern Pakistan. 1 M. m. lasiota (Gray, 1868), the west Chinese rhesus macaque, is distributed in the west of Sichuan, northwest of Yunnan, and southeast of Qinghai; it is possibly synonymous with M. m. sanctijohannis (Swinhoe, 1867), if not with M. m. mulatta.
More on rhesus monkey from Infoplease: 1  macaque-macaque macaque, name for Old World monkeys of the genus Macaca, related to mangabeys, mandrills, ... 2  Examples of Systematic Classification (table) - Examples of Systematic Classification Common Name Species Name Genus Family Order Class Phylum ... 
The rhesus macaque is brown or grey in color and has a pink face, which is bereft of fur. Its tail is of medium length and averages between 20.7 and 22.9 cm (8.1 and 9.0 in). Adult males measure approximately 53 cm (21 in) on average and weigh about 7.7 kg (17 lb). 1 M. m. lasiota (Gray, 1868), the west Chinese rhesus macaque, is distributed in the west of Sichuan, northwest of Yunnan, and southeast of Qinghai; it is possibly synonymous with M. m. sanctijohannis (Swinhoe, 1867), if not with M. m. mulatta.