Inspired by the design of airplane engines, the SUBARU BOXER ® engine stands out from the type of engine you'd typically find in a car. Instead of pistons moving straight up and down, or at an angle like most engines, the pistons of the SUBARU BOXER ® engine are laid flat and move parallel to the ground.
Another way the engine is similar to a human boxer is in the layout of the pistons. In a 4 cylinder boxer engine, the 4 pistons are not inline, but there are 2 pistons on each side of the crankshaft like 2 arms. It is a similar concept to a V engine at a 180 degree angle.
A flat engine is an internal combustion engine with horizontally-opposed pistons. Typically, the layout has cylinders arranged in two banks on either side of a single crankshaft and is otherwise known as the boxer, or horizontally-opposed engine.
The 'Boxer' engine is so called because the movement of the engine's pistons resemble the movement of a boxer's fists in the horizontal plane. However, unlike the boxer's fists that both move in the same direction, half of the 'Boxer' engine's pistons move in the opposite direction.
The key benefit of the Subaru 'Boxer' engine's horizontally-opposed layout is not about its power output or environmental performance but its contribution to the vehicle's handling, stability and as a result, safety.
A boxer engine should not be confused with the opposed-piston engine, in which each cylinder has two pistons but no cylinder head. Also, if a straight engine is canted 90 degrees into the horizontal plane, it may be thought of as a flat engine, but this usage is not common.
OVERVIEW. At the heart of EVERY Subaru is the Subaru Boxer Engine; named for the horizontal movement of the pistons-much like boxers throwing punches. On this page you will learn why Subaru chose the Boxer engine, how it works, and the safety, performance and handling advantages it brings to the driving experience.
For over 45 years Subaru has been solely committed to the Subaru Boxer Engine in ALL of their models. The innovative design is part of Subaru's core DNA. Why don't other manufacturers use it? Porsche does in a few of their models including the Boxster, Cayman and 911 models.