The page could not be loaded. The Medicare.gov Home page currently does not fully support browsers with JavaScript disabled. Please note that if you choose to continue without enabling JavaScript certain functionalities on this website may not be available. Find & compare doctors, hospitals, & other providers. Find and compare hospitals, nursing homes, home health agencies, medical item suppliers, health care providers, health and drug plans, and dialysis facilities. Learn about how to choose providers and plans.
1 Get a replacement Medicare card; and. 2  Get a replacement SSA-1099 or SSA-1042S for tax season. 3  You do not need a my Social Security account to: 4  Select or change the way you receive information from Social Security if you are blind or visually impaired. If you get Social Security benefits or have Medicare you can... 1  Create a my Social Security account to: 2  Get your benefit verification letter (includes Medicare and SSI); 3  Check your information, benefits, and earnings record;
If you need to change your name on your Social Security card, you must show them a recently issued document as proof of your legal name change. Documents Social Security may accept to prove a legal name change include: 1  Marriage document; 2  Divorce decree; 3  Certificate of Naturalization showing a new name; or. 4  Court order for a name change. What if my name changed? If you legally change your name because of marriage, divorce, court order or any other reason, you need to tell Social Security so that you can get a corrected card.
If you need to change your name on your Social Security card, you must show them a recently issued document as proof of your legal name change. Documents Social Security may accept to prove a legal name change include: 1  Marriage document; 2  Divorce decree specifically stating you may change your name; 3  Certificate of Naturalization showing a new name; or. 4  Court order for a name change. If you legally change your name because of marriage, divorce, court order or any other reason, you need to tell Social Security so that you can get a replacement card. If you are working, also tell your employer. If you do not tell them when your name changes, it may: 1  Delay your tax refund; and. 2  Prevent your wages from being posted correctly to your Social Security record, which may lower the amount of your future Social Security benefits
You may report a change of name or address for the Medicare program by calling the Social Security Administration at 1-800-772-1213 or by visiting your local field office. Addresses and directions to the Social Security field offices may be obtained from the Social Security Office Locator. You can get more information on changing your name on Social Security's web site. If you get benefits from the Railroad Retirement Board, call your local RRB office, or call 1-800-808-0772.
If you legally change your name because of marriage, divorce, court order or any other reason, you need to tell Social Security so that you can get a replacement card. If you are working, also tell your employer. If you do not tell them when your name changes, it may: 1  Delay your tax refund; and. 2  Prevent your wages from being posted correctly to your Social Security record, which may lower the amount of your future Social Security benefits. If the documents you provide for a legal name change do not give enough information to identify you, then you also must show two identity documents including: 1  One document in your old name; and. 2  A second document with your new legal name.
1 Start or change your direct deposit; and. 2  Get a replacement Medicare card; and. 3  Get a replacement SSA-1099 or SSA-1042S for tax season. 4  You do not need a my Social Security account to: 5  Select or change the way you receive information from Social Security if you are blind or visually impaired. If you get Social Security benefits or have Medicare you can... 1  Create a my Social Security account to: 2  Get your benefit verification letter (includes Medicare and SSI); 3  Check your information, benefits, and earnings record;