Note: The ideal pH level of alkaline ionized water for long term human consumption is between 8.5 and 9.5 (and no greater than 10.0) with the ideal ORP value around -200mV to -300mV (and in no way significantly greater than -400mV). (Source: Bawell Water Ionizers). 
pH: Definition and measurement units. pH is a measure of how acidic/basic water is. The range goes from 0 - 14, with 7 being neutral. pHs of less than 7 indicate acidity, whereas a pH of greater than 7 indicates a base. pH is really a measure of the relative amount of free hydrogen and hydroxyl ions in the water. pHs less than 7 are acidic while pHs greater than 7 are alkaline (basic). Normal rainfall has a pH of about 5.6—slightly acidic due to carbon dioxide gas from the atmosphere. You can see that acid rain can be very acidic, and it can affect the environment in a negative way.
Diagram of pH. As this diagram shows, pH ranges from 0 to 14, with 7 being neutral. pHs less than 7 are acidic while pHs greater than 7 are alkaline (basic). Normal rainfall has a pH of about 5.6—slightly acidic due to carbon dioxide gas from the atmosphere. You can see that acid rain can be very acidic, and it can affect the environment in a negative way.
What is normal? As humans, a normal pH of all tissues and fluids of the body (except the stomach) is slightly alkaline. The most critical pH is in the blood. All other organs and fluids will fluctuate in their range in order to keep the blood a strict pH between 7.35 and 7.45 (slightly alkaline). This process is called homeostasis.
Soon they outnumber the hydrogen ions, and the water turns alkaline (blue in color). pH is a measure of how acidic a solution is. The pH scale ranges from 0 to 14. Solutions with a pH of less than 7 are acidic, and those with a pH greater than 7 are basic (or alkaline). Distilled water is neutral and has a pH of 7. Knowledge of pH is important because most aquatic organisms are adapted to live in solutions with a pH between 5.0 and 9.0. 
Solutions with a pH less than 7 are acidic and solutions with a pH greater than 7 are alkaline or basic. Pure water is neutral, being neither an acid nor a base. Contrary to popular belief, the pH value can be less than 0 or greater than 14 for very strong acids and bases respectively. When a base, or alkaline, is dissolved in water, the pH will be greater than 7. A solution of a strong acid, such as hydrochloric acid, at concentration 1 mol dm −3 has a pH of 0. A solution of a strong alkaline, such as sodium hydroxide, at concentration 1 mol dm −3, has a pH of 14.
The soil pH is a measure of the acidity or alkalinity in soils. pH is defined as the negative logarithm (base 10) of the activity of hydronium ions (H+ or, more precisely, H 3O+ aq) in a solution. In water, it normally ranges from -1 to 14, with 7 being neutral. A pH below 7 is acidic and above 7 is alkaline. Soil pH is considered a master variable in soils as it controls many chemical processes that take place. It specifically affects plant nutrient availability by controlling the chemical forms of the nutrient
The more ions, the more acidic the solution. The fewer ions the more alkaline (base) the solution. The pH level is a measure of acidity or alkalinity, on a scale of zero to fourteen, with zero being most acid, fourteen being most alkaline and seven being mid-range. The most critical pH balance is in the blood.
pH is measured on a logarithmic scale between 1 and 14 with 1 being extremely acid, 7 neutral, and 14 extremely basic. Because it is a logarithmic scale there is a ten fold increase in acidity for a change of one unit of pH, e.g. 5 is 100 times more acid than 7 on the pH scale. 
Numerical Range. Normal blood pH is 7.4. Lower than pH 7.4, the blood is acidic, and higher than 7.4 the blood is basic, or alkaline. Large changes in blood acidity results in small changes in the pH. In other words, even if the pH moves only a little, that small amount can represent a significant change for the amount of excess or lost acid in the blood.