Marie Sklodowska Curie was a Polish chemist and physicist who studied in the field of radioactivity. She and her husband, Pierre Curie, founded the element radium using pitchb … lende, and mineral that contains uranium and oxygen. She won 2 Nobel Prizes for her work. Marie Curie (1867-1934) was instrumental in the physics of radioactivity. She won two Nobel Prizes, the only person honored as such in two science categories. She was also a p … rofessor at the University of Paris, the first woman to hold such an esteemed position.
Under the direction of Marie Curie, researches on radiation developed at the Radium Institute: in 1934, Irene and Frederic Joliot-Curie discovered artificial radioactivity. She did not, however, see their work rewarded with the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1935: Marie Curie died July 4th 1934 in Haute-Savoie. After she and Pierre Curie discovered two new radioactive elements (1898) she went on to become: the first woman professor at the Faculty of Sciences at the Sorbonne (1906), a member of the Physics Solvay Council (1911-1933) and tof the Academy of Medicine (1922), and a two time Nobel Prize winner (1903 and 1911)...
Curie's quest to create a new laboratory did not end with the University of Paris, however. In her later years, she headed the Radium Institute (Institut du radium, now Curie Institute, Institut Curie), a radioactivity laboratory created for her by the Pasteur Institute and the University of Paris. Curie died in 1934, aged 66, at a sanatorium in Sancellemoz (Haute-Savoie), France, due to aplastic anemia brought on by exposure to radiation while carrying test tubes of radium in her pockets during research, and in the course of her service in World War I mobile X-ray units that she had set up.
Maria Sklodowska, better known as Marie Curie, was born in Warsaw in modern-day Poland on November 7, 1867. Her parents were both teachers, and she was the youngest of five children. As a child Curie took after her father, Wladyslaw, a math and physics instructor. Marie Curie. Marie Curie-Mini Biography (TV-PG; 3:04) Marie Curie's work on radioactivity made her the first woman to win a Nobel Prize. Curie's efforts led to the discovery of polonium and radium and the development of X-rays.
Marie Sklodowska Curie (1867-1934) was a Polish and naturalized-French physicist and chemist. Curie was a pioneer of radioactivity, winning the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1903 and Chemistry in 1911. Curie never worked on the Manhattan Project, but her contributions to the study of radium and radiation was an instrumental technology for the future development of the atomic bomb.
Marie Curie, nee Née Maria, sklodowska was born In warsaw On november, 7, 1867 the daughter of a-secondary school. Teacher she received a general education in local schools and some scientific training from her. father 
View full size image. Marie Curie was a physicist and chemist and a pioneer in the study of radiation. She and her husband, Pierre, discovered the elements polonium and radium. Together, they were awarded the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1903, and she received another one, for Chemistry, in 1911. Her work with radioactive materials doomed her, however. She died of a blood disease in 1934. In 1911, after Pierre’s death, Marie was awarded a second Nobel Prize in Chemistry for her discovery of the elements polonium and radium. Later years. Marie continued to do research in radioactivity.
Marie Curie Biography. Born: November 7, 1867 Warsaw, Poland Died: July 4, 1934 Sancellemoz, France. Polish-born French physicist. The Polish-born French physicist Marie Curie invented the term radioactivity and discovered two elements, radium and polonium. Curie was not only the first woman to win the Nobel Prize in Physics, but when she won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry, she became the first person ever to win the Nobel Prize twice. 
Science Celebrity. Marie Curie made history in 1903 when she became the first woman to receive the Nobel Prize in physics. She won the prestigious honor along with her husband and Henri Becquerel, for their work on radioactivity. Marie Curie. Marie Curie-Mini Biography (TV-PG; 3:04) Marie Curie's work on radioactivity made her the first woman to win a Nobel Prize. Curie's efforts led to the discovery of polonium and radium and the development of X-rays.