The undergrowth in some areas of a rainforest can be restricted by poor penetration of sunlight to ground level. If the leaf canopy is destroyed or thinned, the ground beneath is soon colonized by a dense, tangled growth of vines, shrubs and small trees, called a jungle. More than half of the world's species of plants and animals are found in the rainforest. Rainforests support a very broad array of fauna, including mammals, reptiles, birds and invertebrates. Mammals may include primates, felids and other families.
Levels of the Forest Upper CanopyMiddle Level or UnderstoryHerb, Underbrush or Shrubbery LayerForest FloorUpper Canopy Middle Level / UnderstoryHerb / Underbrush / Shrubbery LayerForest Floor This is the top level of the forest formed by leaves and branches of the tallest trees. 
LAYERS OF A RAINFOREST. EMERGENT LAYER. The tallest trees are the emergents, towering as much as 200 feet above the forest floor with trunks that measure up to 16 feet around. Most of these trees are broad-leaved, hardwood evergreens. Sunlight is plentiful up here. Animals found are eagles, monkeys, bats and butterflies
The canopy level is the third level of the temperate rainforest. The trees forming the canopy, conifers, can stand as tall as 91.44 meters (300 feet). A variety of species survive in the canopy. The tops of these trees collect most of the rain, moisture, and photosynthesis that the rainforest takes in. 
the layers (going down) are the emergent layer, then the canopy layer, the understory layer the the forest floor. The emergent layer-the emergents are the tallest trees so t … hey can get sunlight. The canopy layer-the canopy is the thickest layer of the rainforest. Understory/Undercanopy-This layer has young trees, short trees and bushes. Forest floor/Shrub layer-There are few plants in this layer that have adapted to low-light. 3 people found this useful
EMERGENT LAYER. The Emergent Layer is the highest level of the Rainforest. Giant trees reach to the sky. It is not uncommon for the hardwood evergreens and broad-leaf Rainforest trees to reach an amazing 180 to 200’ in height. The Emergent Layer of the Rainforest is the brightest layer receiving the most sunlight. 
Levels of the Rainforest. By Dawn Duff. There are 3 levels in the tropical rainforest. The canopy is the top layer that covers most of the forest. The middle level is called the understory, and the bottom level is called the forest floor. Each layer is home to many different animals. The fruits and leaves of the canopy provide food for animals like birds, bats, squirrels, and monkeys. Giant trees called emergents poke through the top of the canopy
The understory or understorey layer lies between the canopy and the forest floor. It is home to a number of birds, snakes and lizards, as well as predators such as jaguars, boa constrictors and leopards. The leaves are much larger at this level and insect life is abundant. More than half of the world's species of plants and animals are found in the rainforest. Rainforests support a very broad array of fauna, including mammals, reptiles, birds and invertebrates. Mammals may include primates, felids and other families.
The layers of a typical rain forest. Now, we shall look at the basic structure (layers) of a typical forest. Let's take the Rainforest as an example... There are 4 major layers including: The Emergent Layer (A): This layer is very sunny because it is the very top and only the tallest trees reach this level.