Introduction. Broken (fractured) or bruised ribs are usually caused by a fall or blow to the chest, or occasionally by severe coughing. They can be very painful, but will normally improve within about three to six weeks. If you think you've injured your ribs, you'll often be able to look after yourself at home
A rib fracture is a crack or break in one of the bones of the rib cage. A break in the thick tissue (cartilage) that connects the ribs to the breastbone may also be called a fractured rib, even if the bone itself is not broken. The most common cause of a fractured rib is a direct blow to the chest, often from a car accident or a fall. Coughing hard can also fracture a rib. This is more likely to happen if you have a disease that has made your bones weak, such as osteoporosis or cancer. A common injury when you have a fractured rib is a punctured or collapsed lung (pneumothorax). Flail chest is a serious problem that happens when three or more ribs are broken in more than one place. If you have flail chest, the broken area can't hold its shape when you take a breath.
1. Make sure you don't have broken ribs. A rib that's bruised or cracked is damaged, but still in its place in the rib cage. A broken rib, however, is dangerous because it's been dislodged from its normal position, and could potentially puncture a lung or another organ. 1 You're experiencing increasing pain in your chest, abdomen, or shoulder. 2  You develop a cough or fever. 3  The pain in your chest is intense, but you can twist to look over your shoulder without a marked increase in pain. 4  A bruised rib will feel worse with twisting your torso; something more serious will not.
Ribs that are fractured, broken or bruised will feel painful every time you breathe in or cough. This may make you feel like you can only take shallow breaths. You may also experience swelling or tenderness around the injured area, as well as bruising to the skin. A broken rib, cracked rib or fractured rib is a crack or break in one of the bones in the rib cage. The usual cause of a cracked rib is a blow to the chest, which might be sustained by a fall or as a result of a car accident. A broken rib could also be caused by severe coughing, although this is more likely if there is weakness in the ribs caused by a bone disease like osteoporosis
Hello! Anthony Bray MD: It probably is not a broken rib if you have suffered no trauma to cause this. It probably is not a broken rib if you have suffered no trauma to cause this. Anthony Bray MD: It may be a case of costochodritis which is inflammation of the cartilage segment between the sternum and the rib. This is anterior and would be sore to the touch. It could hurt with change in position. Feels like broken rib but cant be. HI I have what feels like a broken rib (have had them before) however I haven't done anything to break it..The pain is on my right side under my breast & hurts especially if I press on the rib its self.
The muscles used for breathing pull on the ribs, so breathing may be very painful when you have a fractured rib. It is important to see a doctor after a rib injury. A blow that is hard enough to fracture a rib could also injure your lungs, spleen, blood vessels, or other parts of your body. A common injury when you have a fractured rib is a punctured or collapsed lung (pneumothorax). Flail chest is a serious problem that happens when three or more ribs are broken in more than one place. If you have flail chest, the broken area can't hold its shape when you take a breath.
Broken rib or ribs hurt very very bad. This could be a bruise or break. Either way it hurts. It takes about 3 weeks on average to feel better after a broken rib. A bruise may not take as long. They can't do much at the hospital for it other than issue pain meds or something. The rib just has to heal.