Where Does It Come From ... This rare, pink semi-precious gemstone has been found in Thailand, Brazil, Madagascar, Africa and the USA. Specimens of this pink crystal are beautifully transparent stones, with their color range being from a clear silvery pink, to purple-pink and peach color. As a gem stone it is not as widely available as other Beryl stone, and Morganite is sometimes classified as a rare crystal. All varieties of colored Beryl have inclusions within the stones that cause the color, with the color of this Pink Beryl caused by inclusions of manganese.
Like many of our favorite stones Morganite is a variety of Beryl, and an excellent choice for both gemstone jewelry and for metaphysical purposes. Like Green Emerald stones this stone carries the vibration of love, and not just love for other people. As a gem stone it is not as widely available as other Beryl stone, and Morganite is sometimes classified as a rare crystal. All varieties of colored Beryl have inclusions within the stones that cause the color, with the color of this Pink Beryl caused by inclusions of manganese.
As with many gemstones the value of a piece of morganite is determined by the coloring of the stone and the clarity of the stone. The color of a piece of morganite is considered to be the most important factor to determine the price of the stone. Perhaps holding title of most popular in regards to women's designs, the Morganite gemstone is far beyond feminine. Its exquisiteness offers a calming sense to one who observes such a gem, and perhaps it does so because of its relatedness to both the Aquamarine and Emerald, being that it is also a beryl.
Although this gemstone came into being millions of years ago, it has only been known by the name of morganite for less than a hundred years. To be precise, in fact, since 1911, since before that the gemmological world simply viewed the 'pink beryl' as a variety of beryl, not as a gemstone in its own right. So it's easy to see why morganite is typically used in gemstone therapy for stress-related problems, radiating as it does a pleasant feeling of relaxation, calm and joie de vivre. The colour and the cut determine the quality. When determining the quality of a morganite, the colour is the most important criterion.
Morganite Gemstones. Browse through our selection of custom cut Morganite gemstones. Click the photo of a colored gemstone you are interested in to view more information about that stone.
Morganite. Alongside emerald and aquamarine, morganite is certainly the best known gemstone from the colourful group of the beryls. Women the world over love morganite for its fine pink tones which radiate charm, esprit and tenderness. Gemstones change their name too. So it's easy to see why morganite is typically used in gemstone therapy for stress-related problems, radiating as it does a pleasant feeling of relaxation, calm and joie de vivre. The colour and the cut determine the quality. When determining the quality of a morganite, the colour is the most important criterion.
Morganite popularly referred as pink beryl, Rose beryl, pink emerald, cesian beryl. It is rare light pink to rose colored gem quality variety of mineral beryl well known for its green variety, blue variety. The gemstone morganite is the rare variety compared to other common beryls like aquamarine, heliodor. The common varieties of the mineral morganite are orange, yellow and pink.
Today, morganite is one of the most popular pink to peach gemstones. Morganite is considered very affordable, especially considering its rarity. Morganite may be hard to find in local retail stores as it is still relatively uncommon. However, online dealers can provide morganite in every size, shape and cut. Morganite Color Morganite ranges in color from pale pink to pink, violet-pink, peach, peachy-pink, or salmon color. Its color is thought to be owed to traces of manganese or cesium. Morganite is rarely vivid or intense in color; most stones are very pale or pastel colored.
Sometimes dark Pink stones of Morganite are labeled Bixbite to get peoples attention, but real Bixbite is a little rare, and a deeper pink or red in color. The color of lighter pink Morganite stones may be intensified by heat, but they may also turn an orange color from the heat. Peach Morganite comes from Thailand where it occurs naturally. It a lovely stone, with slightly different metaphysical properties to the more common pink. As a gem stone it is not as widely available as other Beryl stone, and Morganite is sometimes classified as a rare crystal. All varieties of colored Beryl have inclusions within the stones that cause the color, with the color of this Pink Beryl caused by inclusions of manganese.
[ View All ]. The morganite gemstone is a member of the beryl gemstone family, along with aquamarine and emeralds. This gemstone is available in a number of different pink tones and was actually first called pink beryl before distinguishing the stone with the name morganite. Perhaps holding title of most popular in regards to women's designs, the Morganite gemstone is far beyond feminine. Its exquisiteness offers a calming sense to one who observes such a gem, and perhaps it does so because of its relatedness to both the Aquamarine and Emerald, being that it is also a beryl.