Originally Posted by Anne Raw shredded parsnips also go well in carrot raisen salad and in cabbage slaw (along with shredded carrots and apples). I think my farorite way to eat them is still the roasted winter veges-carrots, onions, rutebegas, parsnips with just a bit of olive oil and a bit more balsamic vinegar. I have tried a few pureed parsnip soups but haven't found one that I love. C/L did a whole spread on parsnips about a year ago and there were a bunch of really good recipes using parsnips in odd ways like bread. Parsnip puree is good also -- you can mix it up with other veggies i.e. parsnip carrot puree.
The parsnip (Pastinaca sativa) is a root vegetable closely related to the carrot and parsley. It is a biennial plant usually grown as an annual. Its long tuberous root has cream-colored skin and flesh and can be left in the ground when mature as it becomes sweeter in flavor after winter frosts. Like carrots, parsnips are native to Eurasia and have been eaten there since ancient times. Zohary and Hopf note that the archaeological evidence for the cultivation of the parsnip is still rather limited, and that Greek and Roman literary sources are a major source about its early use.
Parsnips are a root vegetable similar to carrots, and they have a sweet, nutty flavor. They are off-white to pale yellow and are high in vitamin C. Parsnips can be cooked in various ways to release their tender, gentle sweetness and are often added in stews. Here is what you should do to boil the parsnips: 1  Bring a pot of water to a boil. 2  Trim the root and leaf ends of the parsnips. 3  Scrub the parsnips with a vegetable brush while rinsing under cool water. 4  Place the parsnips into the boiling water and reduce to a simmer. 5  Cook for 5 - 15 minutes, until the parsnips are tender.
(German) Die Pastinake. ---Part Used---Root. ---Habitat---The Wild Parsnip is a native of most parts of Europe, growing chiefly in calcareous soils, by the wayside and on the borders of fields. The food value of Parsnips exceeds that of any other vegetable except potatoes. It is easy of production and should be more extensively grown.
Anne. Raw shredded parsnips also go well in carrot raisen salad and in cabbage slaw (along with shredded carrots and apples). I think my farorite way to eat them is still the roasted winter veges-carrots, onions, rutebegas, parsnips with just a bit of olive oil and a bit more balsamic vinegar. I have tried a few pureed parsnip soups but haven't found one that I love. C/L did a whole spread on parsnips about a year ago and there were a bunch of really good recipes using parsnips in odd ways like bread. Parsnip puree is good also -- you can mix it up with other veggies i.e. parsnip carrot puree.
Parsnips are cousins to carrots, with the same woody texture as and similar flavor to turnips, and are often used in a manner similar to potatoes. Pull on your snow boots, pick up some parsnips and get some love cooking in your kitchen. 1  Let parsnips shine on their own with simple Herbed Butter Parsnips. 
The parsnip is native to Eurasia. It has been used as a vegetable since antiquity and was cultivated by the Romans, although there is some confusion in the literature of the time between parsnips and carrots. Like carrots, parsnips are native to Eurasia and have been eaten there since ancient times. Zohary and Hopf note that the archaeological evidence for the cultivation of the parsnip is still rather limited, and that Greek and Roman literary sources are a major source about its early use.
The parsnip is usually cooked but can also be eaten raw. It is high in vitamins and minerals, especially potassium. It also contains antioxidants and both soluble and insoluble dietary fiber. It can be cultivated in deep, stone-free soils. Like carrots, parsnips are native to Eurasia and have been eaten there since ancient times. Zohary and Hopf note that the archaeological evidence for the cultivation of the parsnip is still rather limited, and that Greek and Roman literary sources are a major source about its early use.
Look for bright, very firm, relatively smooth parsnips. If you buy parsnips with their greens still attached, the greens should look fresh and moist. Remove greens when you get them home and store parsnips chilled and loosely wrapped in plastic. Parsnips may look like fat white carrots, but they are, despite what some blow-hards may insist, their own vegetable. They are not the tasty, crunchy raw snacks that carrots can be, but their nutty taste is delicious added to roasts, soups, and stews.