For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Laboratory Assistant I in the United States is $35,517 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Laboratory Assistant I in the United States are expected to make less than $35,517. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $35,517. 1  Salary. 
Medical Laboratory Assistant. Certified Medical Lab Assistants, also known as Clinical Laboratory Technicians, examine and analyze bodily fluids and cells. Their work is supervised by medical and clinical lab technologists or lab managers, who generally perform more complex lab tests. Some of the tasks that medical lab assistants do include: 1  Collecting blood or tissue samples from patients. 2  Testing samples for blood type and blood counts.
Medical Laboratory Assistants (MLAs) prepare, and in some cases process samples within a pathology laboratory. A typical method of sample acceptance (in a clinical chemistry lab) is as follows: 1  Sample is received. 2  Sample is checked (to ensure that the sample is sent in the correct container for the specimen). 3  Patient's details checked and matched on both form and sample (non-matching samples and/or forms rejected).
How to Become a Lab Assistant. The responsibilities of a lab assistant vary from processing patient records to processing a patient's medical specimen. Accuracy is just one of the skills needed in this industry. Laboratory assistants are supervised by lab managers or research scientists. Whatever the capacity in which you wish to work, the steps you must take to become a lab assistant are similar
Laboratory assistants receive and store blood and other samples. Doctors are often able to make an accurate diagnosis based on your symptoms, but they can draw on other tools when they are uncertain. For example, they may order laboratory tests on your blood or cell tissues to check for specific problems. 
Job Duties. Laboratory assistants work in the field of science assisting researchers and scientists during lab tests and experiments. Before an experiment, laboratory assistants process specimens and prepare the proper experimental set up. Afterward, they clean and maintain the lab and equipment. Laboratory assistants are in charge of cleaning lab instruments, sterilizing the test area, calibrating test equipment, keeping inventory of lab equipment, and following safety procedures when handling dangerous chemicals.
As a medical laboratory assistant, you will have a wide variety of work environments from which to choose. Medical lab assistants work in hospitals, businesses, most types of healthcare facilities, and public and private laboratories. 
Clinical laboratory assistants or technicians do not need to be licensed by the state, but employers generally prefer certified technicians. These articles examine the clinical laboratory assistant career. 1  Lab Assistant. 2  Clinical Lab Tech. 3  Certified Lab Tech. 