The lactate threshold (LT) (or lactate inflection point (LIP) or anaerobic threshold (AT)) is the exercise intensity at which lactate (more specifically, lactic acid) starts to accumulate in the blood stream. The aerobic threshold (AeT) is sometimes defined as the exercise intensity at which anaerobic energy pathways start to operate and where blood lactate reaches a concentration of 2 mmol /litre (at rest it is around 1).
Although the lactate threshold is defined as the point when lactic acid starts to accumulate, some testers approximate this by using the point at which lactate reaches a concentration of 4 mM (at rest it is around 1 mM). The aerobic threshold (AeT) is sometimes defined as the exercise intensity at which anaerobic energy pathways start to operate and where blood lactate reaches a concentration of 2 mmol /litre (at rest it is around 1).
Nevertheless, lactate has been subject of study for many years and by important scientists including several Nobel Laureates. Lactate studies date back from the 19th century when a Nobel Laureate, Louis Pasteur in 1863 proposed that lactate was produced by lack of oxygen during muscle contraction. Dr. George Brooks, from the University of California at Berkeley, and one of the best experts in metabolism of all times, has studied lactate extensively for more than 40 years and most of everything we know about lactate nowadays is thanks to his work.
Lactate is a great unknown in human metabolism despite its key role in regulating metabolism. For many years it has been thought that lactate was just a waste product as a result of anaerobic exercise or even a waste product of exercise that would crystalize resulting in muscle soreness. Dr. George Brooks, from the University of California at Berkeley, and one of the best experts in metabolism of all times, has studied lactate extensively for more than 40 years and most of everything we know about lactate nowadays is thanks to his work.
Lactate threshold has been defined as: The point during exercise of increasing intensity at which blood lactate begins to accumulate above resting levels, where lactate clearance is no longer able to keep up with lactate production. (3). During low intensity exercise, blood lactate remains at or near to resting levels. 
Lactate threshold is probably the most used training term by coaches and athletes worldwide. However, there is wide controversy as of what lactate threshold really means as well as to what is the exercise intensity that elicits it. Dr. George Brooks, from the University of California at Berkeley, and one of the best experts in metabolism of all times, has studied lactate extensively for more than 40 years and most of everything we know about lactate nowadays is thanks to his work.
Notice that for Athlete 1, blood lactate remains steady at their estimated anaerobic threshold (12km/h) and lactate begins to accumulate when the pace is increased to 13km/h in the final 15 minutes. For athlete 1, this is confirmation that their anaerobic threshold pace is reasonably accurate. Confirmatory Test. When anaerobic threshold is read from the lactate curve, an additional test can be used to verify its accuracy. Using the example above, the athletes threshold is thought to occur at about 12km/h on the treadmill.
Accurately measuring the lactate threshold involves taking blood samples (normally a pinprick to the finger, earlobe or thumb) during a ramp test where the exercise intensity is progressively increased. The aerobic threshold (AeT) is sometimes defined as the exercise intensity at which anaerobic energy pathways start to operate and where blood lactate reaches a concentration of 2 mmol /litre (at rest it is around 1).
The Anaerobic Threshold. The anaerobic threshold (AT), also called the “lactate threshold,” is the exertion level between aerobic and anaerobic training. The AT is the point during exercise when your body must switch from aerobic to anaerobic metabolism. 
With a higher exercise intensity the lactate level in the blood reaches the anaerobic threshold (AT), or the onset of blood lactate accumulation (OBLA). The aerobic threshold (AeT) is sometimes defined as the exercise intensity at which anaerobic energy pathways start to operate and where blood lactate reaches a concentration of 2 mmol /litre (at rest it is around 1).