Brown rice has more niacin than quinoa, with one-fifth of your daily requirement for that nutrient, while quinoa provides about 5 percent. Quinoa towers over brown rice in terms of folate and riboflavin, with one-fourth of the folate and one-fifth of the riboflavin you need daily. If you're trying to lose weight or maintain your current weight, quinoa may be the grain for you. Although a cup of either quinoa or brown rice provides about 220 calories, quinoa has 8 grams of protein and 5 grams of fiber, nearly doubling the protein and fiber content of brown rice. Quinoa has twice the fat of brown rice, with 3.5 grams per cooked cup, but is still low in fat overall
And, 1/3 cup of cooked long-grain brown rice has 71 calories, 0.58 grams of fat, 1.2 grams of fibre, and 1.66 grams of protein. Nutritional Data from FatSecret. Basmati rice is a long-grain rice that we traditionally use in Indian cooking and meals. All this means is that you have to eat them with a grain like rice to get all 9 amino acids. Key to note is that they don't have to be eaten together in the same meal, but within the same day.). Typically, 1/3 cup of cooked quinoa has about 75 calories, 1.17 grams of fat, 1.2 grams of fiber and 2.64
According to the USDA, 1 cup of cooked brown rice has about 215 calories, 5 grams of protein, 1.75 grams of fat, 45 grams of carbohydrates, 3.5 grams of fiber and 1 gram of natural sugar. A cup of cooked quinoa has 220 calories, 8 grams of protein, 3.5 grams of fat, 39.5 grams of carbohydrates and 5 grams of fiber. Although quinoa is slightly higher in fat, it edges out brown rice in both amounts of protein and dietary fiber per serving. Taste. Cooked brown rice is just a bit darker than white rice, and it has a nuttier, chewier texture and more of a “bite.” The bran and germ have not been removed from the rice, so it can take longer to eat and digest. Quinoa is also somewhat chewy, but it has a softer texture and more of a neutral flavor.
Brown rice and whole-grain couscous retain the natural fiber from the bran. With 3.5 grams of fiber in a 1-cup serving, brown rice has almost six times more fiber than white rice. The same portion of whole-grain couscous has 8 grams of fiber, compared to 2 grams in regular couscous. One cup of prepared regular couscous has 176 calories, compared to 227 calories in whole-grain couscous and about 210 calories in brown and white rice. Regular couscous has 6 grams of protein, while whole-grain couscous has 9 gram
Brown rice also has more selenium than quinoa, with 27 per cent of the amount you should get each day in a cup compared to 7 percent for quinoa. Selenium, a trace nutrient, is important for heart health and has been researched for its possible role in cancer prevention. The prep for each of these foods is pretty similar: just add the grain (or pseudograin!) and water to a pot and cook. With brown rice, use a ratio of 1 cup of rice to 1.5 cups of water or other liquid. For quinoa, your ratio is 1 cup of quinoa to 2 cups of liquids. There's one important difference, however.
When comparing quinoa with brown rice, quinoa wins every time. Quinoa has more fiber, a lower glycemic load, and substantially more amino acids. Quinoa is one of the rare complete-protein foods, meaning it contains all essential amino acids needed for growth, cellular repair, and energy production. Here’s a quick nutritional comparison of quinoa and brown rice: Quinoa, 1 cup cooked. 1  Calories: 222.