Special Education Assistants in the United States can expect to earn an average of $13.98 per hour. Earnings generally vary between $9.81 per hour and $19.85. Career length is the biggest factor affecting pay for this group, followed by geography. 
Teaching assistants were paid a mean $25,270 per year as of May 2011, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The lowest paid 10 percent earned $17,090 per year or less, while the highest paid 10 percent received $36,560 or more. Entry requirements for the profession vary by school district and range from a high school diploma to an associate degree.
Special education teachers also collaborate with teacher assistants, psychologists, and social workers, to accommodate requirements of students with disabilities. For example, they may show a teacher assistant how to work with a student who needs particular attention. 
Salaries for full-time teaching assistants can be from £12,000 to over £17,000 a year. Salaries for full-time Higher Level Teaching Assistants can be between £16,000 and £22,000 a year. This varies depending on the Local Education Authority (LEA) and the responsibilities of individual jobs. However, many teaching assistants work part-time. You may sometimes go to training and meetings outside school hours. Some special schools are residential. If you work as a teaching assistant in this type of school, you may have to work a mixture of shifts covering seven days a week.
Education Assistants (EAs) work with teachers to support students with diverse learning challenges, and special needs. The positions within this classification varies from more general positions to specialized roles such as Autism support workers, severe behaviour worker, and sign language interpreters. 
In my district all aides get paid based on education level and years with the district. If you are a high school graduate and have been with the district for 5 years you would make the same as any other aide with the same qualifications and years on the job. Entry level pay would be about $8 - 10/ hour for about a 7 hour day. You typically do not get paid holidays, and teacher planning or workshop days-even thought the teachers are there-unless your district has some specific programing or training for you-you would not get paid. Can you support yourself on an Aides Salary.
About 11 percent of teaching assistants nationwide worked in California as of May 2011 and earned an average of $29,960 per year. New York had almost 10 percent of the positions and paid $27,020 per year on average. Texas ranked third in the number of teaching assistant jobs and paid mean wages of $21,500 per year. Among metro areas, New York had the most teaching assistants and paid an average annual salary of $28,490 per year. The lowest paid 10 percent earned $17,090 per year or less, while the highest paid 10 percent received $36,560 or more. Entry requirements for the profession vary by school district and range from a high school diploma to an associate degree.
Starting salary. £12,000 + per year. If you are keen to help children and want to work in a school, this could be an ideal job for you. Special needs teaching assistants help children with a wide range of learning, physical or behavioural difficulties. However, many teaching assistants work part-time. You may sometimes go to training and meetings outside school hours. Some special schools are residential. If you work as a teaching assistant in this type of school, you may have to work a mixture of shifts covering seven days a week.
As of May 2006 the average earnings for teacher's assistants was $20,740 per year and most earned between $16,430 and $26,160 per year. A benefit to working in this field is that all school districts offer health insurance and other benefits. Three out of ten assistants were a part of a union in 2006. School districts are always in need of an extra helping hand and in 2006 teaching assistants made up over 1.3 million U.S. jobs. Employers look for applicants who have had at least two years of post secondary education, have had experience working with special needs children, and can speak a foreign language.
Another is a Special Education Assistant, who assists that Teacher in the education of physically and mentally disabled students. As a Special Education Assistant, you may work in public schools or private schools. You may work in schools that teach all students, or in those that specialize in special-needs education. You may work at elementary schools, middle schools, or high school