H. Regular Rate for Salaried Non-Exempt Employees. The regular rate of pay for salaried non-exempt employees is always calculated by dividing the salary amount by an hours worked amount. However, the exact amounts and what is then done with the regular rate will vary according to the exact situation. Regular Rate for Semimonthly Salaries. For non-exempt salaried employees who are paid either twice per month (semimonthly) or monthly, the payments must be reduced to their workweek equivalents in order to arrive at the regular rate of pay.
Example: A non-exempt employee is paid a salary of $500 per week, and works 50 hours in a given week. Since the agreement is just that the employee will be paid a $500 salary, that sum would cover any number of hours worked. The regular rate for this week is the salary ($500) divided by the 50 hours worked, or $10.00. The employee's gross wages for the week, including overtime, would be $550 (the $500 salary plus $50 in overtime pay). Wisconsin law allows this method of overtime compensation for salaried, non-exempt employees, but federal law may not.
Fair Labor Standards Act of 2004. The FLSA defines the rules that govern overtime pay. If an employee is eligible for overtime, he is considered nonexempt. If an employee is not eligible for overtime pay, he is considered exempt. Exempt employees are on salary, but not all salaried employees are exempt. The first standard is that an exempt employee must make more than $23,660 per year, unless that employee is a computer professional. Certain classifications of computer professionals must make more than $57,470 per year to be
Salaried nonexempt employees receive a salary rate for a fixed number of hours. However, when they exceed the fixed number of hours and work more than 40 hours in a week, they receive overtime compensation. The basis of the calculation of their overtime compensation is the equivalent hourly rate the employee earns. Salaried Exempt Employees. Employees classified as both salaried and exempt receive the minimum weekly wage for salaried workers, plus they are exempt from the FLSA regulations on overtime pay based on their job duties and responsibilities.
With few exceptions, to be exempt an employee must (a) be paid at least $23,600 per year ($455 per week), and (b) be paid on a salary basis, and also (c) perform exempt job duties. These requirements are outlined in the FLSA Regulations (promulgated by the U.S. Department of Labor). 
A. All salaried employees must be paid overtime unless they meet the test for exempt status as defined by federal and state laws. CAUTION: Misclassification of salaried employees as exempt creates liability for unpaid overtime. It is the employer´s burden to prove exempt status of employees
A. It depends. A salaried employee must be paid overtime unless they meet the test for exempt status as defined by federal and state laws, or unless they are specifically exempted from overtime by the provisions of one of the Industrial Welfare Commission Wage Orders regulating wages, hours and working conditions. 6. Q
Overtime for exempt employees. Overtime for Exempt Employees. According to the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), some employees are exempt from the payment of an enhanced rate of pay for each hour over forty (40) in a work week, also known as 'overtime'.
For non-exempt salaried employees, the employer must pay overtime if the employee works more than 40 hours. They may have to pay additional amounts if it is specified in the agreement that the salary is meant to be compensation for up to 45 hours. The employee's gross wages for the week, including overtime, would be $550 (the $500 salary plus $50 in overtime pay). Wisconsin law allows this method of overtime compensation for salaried, non-exempt employees, but federal law may not.
A salaried employee must be paid overtime. they meet the test for exempt status as defined by federal and state laws, or. they are specifically exempted from overtime by the provisions of one of the Industrial Welfare Commission Wage Orders regulating wages, hours and working conditions. It's not whether you're salaried but whether you meet the test for exempt status as defined by federal and state laws. An employee that is exempt from the Fair Labor Standards Act is not entitled to overtime. An employee that is non-exempt from FLSA is