Iritis (i-RIE-tis) is inflammation that affects your eye's iris, the colored ring surrounding your pupil. The iris is a part of the middle layer of the eye (uvea), so iritis is a type of uveitis, sometimes called anterior uveitis. The cause of iritis is often unknown. Sometimes iritis results from an underlying systemic condition or genetic factor. 
Uveitis is defined as inflammation of the uveal tract, which includes the iris, ciliary body, and choroid (the image below depicts the anatomy of the eye). Anterior uveitis, the form most likely to present emergently, includes iritis; iridocyclitis, in which the ciliary body is also involved; and anterior cyclitis. Uveitis is often idiopathic, but it can be triggered by genetic, traumatic, or infectious mechanisms. Anatomy of the eye. 
Your eye doctor may have diagnosed that you have a condition known as iritis. This is a condition where a part of the eye, the iris, becomes inflamed. With proper treatment an attack of iritis can be controlled. Uveitis arising in the front or middle of the eye (iritis or cyclitis) is commonly more sudden in onset, generally lasting six to eight weeks, and in early stages can usually be controlled by the frequent use of drops. Often, this type of uveitis cannot be given a specific cause.
Iritis. Iritis is inflammation of the coloured part of the eye, causing painful, aching eyes and blurred vision. Iritis may due to an injury, infections or conditions such as arthritis. This condition usually affects one eye at a time, and once a person has experienced iritis, it is likely to come back again at a later stage. 
1 Iritis is an inflammatory condition of the eye which is usually easily treated, leaving no damage. 2  In rare cases, it may cause serious damage to the eye. 3  It must be evaluated and treated promptly by an ophthalmologist who will also seek and specific causes. Iritis facts. 1 
The iris is the colored part of the eye, and iritis is an inflammation of the iris. Iritis can also be referred to as anterior uveitis. The iris contains muscles that relax and contract the pupil (dilate and constrict the pupil) and it serves as a divider between the anterior and posterior chambers of the eye. Iritis can be acute or chronic. Acute iritis presents suddenly, typically as a painful red eye with light sensitivity. Chronic iritis can last months or years, and may not respond to treatment as well as acute iritis. People with chronic iritis are often at higher risk for developing visual impairments.
Often, the cause of iritis can't be determined. In some cases, however, iritis can be linked to eye trauma, genetic factors or certain diseases. Known causes of iritis include: 1  Injury to the eye. 2  Blunt force trauma, a penetrating injury, or a burn from a chemical or fire can cause acute iritis. 3  Infections. 4  Shingles (herpes zoster) on your face can cause iritis
1 Blunt trauma to the eye can cause traumatic inflammation of the iris. 2  Nontraumatic iritis is frequently associated with certain diseases, such as ankylosing spondylitis, Reiter syndrome, sarcoidosis, inflammatory bowel disease, and psoriasis. Notify your eye doctor if any of the following signs or symptoms of iritis are present: 1  Eye pain, including pain associated with bright light. 2  Blurred vision. 3  Redness in the eye, especially near the iris.
Iritis is an inflammatory condition of the colored portion (the iris which surrounds the pupil) of the eye. It causes varying degrees of redness of the eye, often with significant pain, sensitivity to light, tearing, and blurred vision. Iritis facts. 1  Iritis is an inflammatory condition of the eye which is usually easily treated, leaving no damage. 2  In rare cases, it may cause serious damage to the eye. 3  It must be evaluated and treated promptly by an ophthalmologist who will also seek and specific causes.
When an inflammation affects primarily the iris and ciliary body it is often called iritis. The iris is the part of the eye which is visible in the mirror and gives the eye its color, usually blue or brown. The pupil is the opening in the iris through which light passes. Iritis facts. 1  Iritis is an inflammatory condition of the eye which is usually easily treated, leaving no damage. 2  In rare cases, it may cause serious damage to the eye. 3  It must be evaluated and treated promptly by an ophthalmologist who will also seek and specific causes.