The apple tree (Malus domestica) is a deciduous tree in the rose family best known for its sweet, pomaceous fruit, the apple. It is cultivated worldwide as a fruit tree, and is the most widely grown species in the genus Malus.he apple is a deciduous tree, generally standing 1.8 to 4.6 m (6 to 15 ft) tall in cultivation and up to 39 ft (12 m) in the wild. When cultivated, the size, shape and branch density are determined by rootstock selection and trimming method.
If you want a sweet tasting winter apple for eating out of hand, choose the Pink Lady. If you want a winter salad apple that is crisp but not too sweet, choose the Sierra Beauty or the Newtown Pippin. If you’re making a late-season applesauce, choose the Rhode Island Greening. If you are planning to bake a tart this winter day, choose the Winesap.
Melrose Apples. A medium or large variety, the Melrose is a favorite dessert winter apple because of its mild acidity and powerful aroma. The skin of the Melrose is pale yellow with red hues, as it is a cross between a Jonathan and a Delicious. The Melrose is Ohio's official apple.pple image by Pali A from Fotolia.com. Farm-fresh apples are a harvest time treat around which entire regions of the country hold festivals and parades. From farmers markets to large-chain grocers, apples of hundreds of varieties make their way into homes around the world.
This is an apple that can certainly be called the “Fairest of the fair”, the sweet and lovely Winter Banana. This is an apple that can certainly be called the “Fairest of the fair”, the sweet and lovely Winter Banana. With its smooth, waxy, pale yellow skin and pinkish-red blush, the Winter Banana is an extremely attractive apple as well as a beneficial addition to the home orchard.f you’re looking to add something different to your home apple orchard, then Winter Banana is well worth considering. With its unique aroma and flavor and outstanding beauty this apple will delight the senses and give great pleasure for many years.
Cortland Apples. The Cortland is a winter apple that is a staple of New York agriculture. From the McIntosh family of apples, the Cortland is a delicate fruit that does not keep for long periods of time and exhibits a diminishing flavor and firmness over time.pple image by Pali A from Fotolia.com. Farm-fresh apples are a harvest time treat around which entire regions of the country hold festivals and parades. From farmers markets to large-chain grocers, apples of hundreds of varieties make their way into homes around the world.
For that reason, late-season apples are sometimes called winter apples. While some cookbooks like to divide apples into those that are eaten out of hand (the early-and mid-season apples) and those that are set aside and used for baking and cooking (late-season apples), it’s not really that simple. If you want a winter salad apple that is crisp but not too sweet, choose the Sierra Beauty or the Newtown Pippin. If you’re making a late-season applesauce, choose the Rhode Island Greening. If you are planning to bake a tart this winter day, choose the Winesap.
winter banana is named for the color and the ridges running up the sides, that resemble those on a banana. Late ripening, and a very orderly growth habit, requires little pruning.t was named Winter Banana: but I do not remember it tasting like banana. To me it was more like pineapple and was a favorite of mine (only found this one time). I would be interested in knowing if it is available within a 100 mile radius of S. PA (near York, PA).
I find winter banana to be a much better cooking than eating apple. The flesh is very dense. I think it is one of the most beautiful apples in our orchard, but not the best eating apple. 06 May 2009 Lauri Allen, CANAAN, NH, United States. I have tasted this tree in the 60's and 70's till the tree had been taken down.t was named Winter Banana: but I do not remember it tasting like banana. To me it was more like pineapple and was a favorite of mine (only found this one time). I would be interested in knowing if it is available within a 100 mile radius of S. PA (near York, PA).
There are more than 7,000 varieties of apples but not all of them come to harvest at the same time. In the course of a year, there are actually three apple harvests: an early-season harvest, a mid-season harvest, and a late-season harvest. The harvest for early-season apple varieties begins in mid-summer and peaks in late summer.f you want a winter salad apple that is crisp but not too sweet, choose the Sierra Beauty or the Newtown Pippin. If you’re making a late-season applesauce, choose the Rhode Island Greening. If you are planning to bake a tart this winter day, choose the Winesap.
apple image by Pali A from Fotolia.com. Farm-fresh apples are a harvest time treat around which entire regions of the country hold festivals and parades. From farmers markets to large-chain grocers, apples of hundreds of varieties make their way into homes around the world. And though harvest has usually come and gone by December, there are quite a few late-harvest apple varieties that will provide sauces and pies throughout the winter.