In Britain, cranberry may refer to the native species Vaccinium oxycoccos, while in North America, cranberry may refer to Vaccinium macrocarpon. Vaccinium oxycoccos is cultivated in central and northern Europe, while Vaccinium macrocarpon is cultivated throughout the northern United States, Canada and Chile. Most cranberries are processed into products such as juice, sauce, jam, and sweetened dried cranberries, with the remainder sold fresh to consumers. Cranberry sauce is a traditional accompaniment to turkey at Christmas dinner in the United Kingdom and Thanksgiving dinners in the United States and Canada.
Cranberries are a major commercial crop in certain American states and Canadian provinces (see cultivation and uses below). Most cranberries are processed into products such as juice, sauce, jam, and sweetened dried cranberries, with the remainder sold fresh to consumers. Cranberry sauce is a traditional accompaniment to turkey at Christmas dinner in the United Kingdom and Thanksgiving dinners in the United States and Canada.
Massachusetts is the leading state in cranberry production, followed by Wisconsin, New Jersey, Washington, and Oregon. There is significant production in Canada, particularly in Nova Scotia, Quebec, and British Columbia. 
Cranberries are a major commercial crop in the U.S. states of Massachusetts, New Jersey, Oregon, Washington, and Wisconsin, as well as in the Canadian provinces of British Columbia, New Brunswick, Ontario, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island, Newfoundland and Quebec. Most cranberries are processed into products such as juice, sauce, jam, and sweetened dried cranberries, with the remainder sold fresh to consumers. Cranberry sauce is a traditional accompaniment to turkey at Christmas dinner in the United Kingdom and Thanksgiving dinners in the United States and Canada.
Other regions grow cranberries as well, to varying extent, and these include Delaware, Maine, Michigan, New York, Rhode Island, as well as the provinces of New Brunswick, Nova Scotia and Ontario. Cranberries are also commercially grown in Chile. In Massachusetts we call the place where cranberries grow a BOG. Natural bogs evolved from deposits left by the glaciers more than 10,000 years ago. These deposits were left in impermeable kettle holes lined with clay. The clay prevents materials from leaching into the groundwater.
Location Cranberries are grown through the northern part of the United States. The major production areas are New Jersey, Massachusetts, Oregon, Washington, Wisconsin and the Canadian provinces of British Columbia and Quebec. In Massachusetts we call the place where cranberries grow a BOG. Natural bogs evolved from deposits left by the glaciers more than 10,000 years ago. These deposits were left in impermeable kettle holes lined with clay. The clay prevents materials from leaching into the groundwater.
Find out what cranberries can do for you! Cranberry Production in Wisconsin Interesting Cranberry Facts Cranberries in Wisconsin - 2014. Wisconsin is the nation’s leading producer of cranberries, harvesting more than 60 percent of the country’s crop. The little red berry, Wisconsin’s official state fruit, is the state’s number one fruit crop, both in size and economic value. Cranberries are grown on 21,000 acres across 20 counties in Wisconsin. The sand and peat marshes in central and northern Wisconsin create the perfect growing conditions for cranberries. During the early 1890s, the center of the Wisconsin cranberry industry shifted to the Cranmoor area, just west of Wisconsin Rapids.
The leading cranberry producing state is Wisconsin.   Source: http://usda.mannlib.cornell.edu/usda/current/Cran/Cran-08-18-2009.pdf   Other top producers (in order …): Massachusetts, New Jersey, Oregon and Washington.   Wisconsin produces more than half of the cranberries in the United States. Wisconsin produces twice as many cranberries as Massachusetts. The United States is the largest producer of cranberries. Over half  of the cranberries grown in the United States are grown in 
Since 1995, Wisconsin has produced the largest crop of cranberries -- currently, about 57% of the United States' total production. Massachusetts fell from first to second largest producer in 1995, and currently produces another 23-30%. 
To prevent this, Mr. Angley turns on his sprinkler system, and water droplets freeze on the surface of the berries, protecting them. Cranberries are big business in Massachusetts, which produces about half of the entire United States crop. Four other states grow cranberries: New Jersey, Wisconsin, Washington and Oregon. It takes 45,000 cranberries to fill a barrel, the standard measure for the crop, and one acre of bog yields 150 barrels of berries. There are more than 11,000 acres of cranberry bogs under cultivation in Massachusetts, and dollar for acre, cranberry bogs are among the most expensive farmland in the state.