Donatella Name Meaning. The meaning of Donatella is “Given by God”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.
Comments and insights on the name Donatella: | Edit. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Donatella: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Donatella: | Edit. Dona, Donna. 
Popularity of the Name Donatella. This name is not popular in the US, according to Social Security Administration, as there are no popularity data for the name. This doesn't mean that the name Donatella is not popular in other countries all over the world. The meaning of Donatella is “Given by God”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.
Spanish Meaning: The name Donatello is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Donatello is: Gift from God. Italian Meaning: The name Donatello is an Italian baby name. In Italian the meaning of the name Donatello is: Gift. Latin Meaning: The name Donatello is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Donatello is: Gift. SoulUrge Number: 9. Expression Number: 8. People with this name have a deep inner desire to serve humanity and to give to others by sharing money, knowledge and experience, or creative and artistic ability.
If you consider naming your baby Donatella we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day. The meaning of Donatella is “Given by God”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.
Donatella is mainly used in the Italian language, and its language of origin is Latin and Italian. Donatella is a pet form of the Italian name Donata. Donatella is also a variant form of the English and Scottish name Donna. Donatella is rarely used as a baby name for girls. It is ranked outside of the top 1000 names. A baby name that sounds like Donatella is the English, Hungarian, and Italian name Domitilla.
Donatella is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 9 letters and 4 syllables and is pronounced Do-na-te-lla. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 11139 in baby name popularity for girls with 9 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Donatella Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Donatella has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Donatella to other names.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Donatella and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Donatella and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The meaning of Donatella is “Given by God”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.