The word rhinoceros comes from the Greek rhino (nose) and ceros (horn). There are five species and 11 subspecies of rhino; some have two horns, while others have one. Because the animals' horns are used in folk medicine for their supposed healing properties, rhinos have been hunted nearly to extinction.
Rhinos may look like prehistoric creatures, and they do date back millions of years to the Miocene era, but they are also mammals like us. There are two species of African rhinos, the white rhino and black rhino, and each is distinct in its own way.
Rhino Species-Rhinocerotidae. The Rhino, officially Rhinoceros, is one of the six surviving species of odd-toed ungulates in the family Rhinocerotidae of the Perissodactyla. The Black Rhino and the White Rhino are native to Africa, while the Indian Rhino, Sumatran Rhino and the Javan Rhino occur in Asia.
Best Answer: Rhinos and horses belong to the order Perissodactyla and are odd-toed, equines have one toe and rhinos three. The other member of the order is the tapir. There are three families Tapiridae, Rhinoceritidae and Equitidae.
Report Abuse. No, the families they belong to are Rhinos-Rhinocerotidae Hippos-Hippopotamidae Pigs-Suidae Horses-Equidae Family is a particular term used in biological classification. What you may be thinking of is that they are all ungulates (Ungulata-which is a Superorder) - hooved animals.
Rhinos and horses both belong to the order Perissodactyla, the odd-toed ungulates (hoofed mammals), whilst hippos and pigs belong to the order Artiodactyla, the even-toed ungulates. Source(s): I used to be a zookeeper and have studied animals all my life.
The Rhinoceros belong to the few remaining mega-fauna surviving today and are characterised by their large size. All species can weigh more than a ton with the White Rhino being the second largest land mammal weighing up to 2,700 kg.
Rhinos belong to one family, the Rhinocerotidae. There are only five species in the family. They are more closely related to horses than hippos. They belong to the order Perissodactyla (odd-toed ungulates) which includes all the horses and tapirs.