Tweet. Trapezitis is an inflammatory pain arising from the trapezius muscle (Picture 1) causing a severe neck spasm. This muscle lies at the back of the neck and helps in shrugging movement of the shoulders along with upward movement of the head. Picture 1: Trapezius Muscle. (Source: Wikimedia Commons). The treatment of trapezitis is conservative and consists of analgesics and muscle relaxants during the painful episode of neck spasm. This should be coupled with complete rest to the muscle which is ensured with a soft cervical collar.
Back Upper-Neck (Cervical) Trapezius Spasm Treatment. Spasms of the trapezius muscle and other supporting muscles. Trapezius is a large superficial muscle that extends from the occipital bone to the lower thoracic vertebrae and laterally to the spine of the scapula. Its functions are to move the scapulae and support the arm. Trapezius strain can result from. 1  exercise. 2  stres
Symptoms include pain, spasms, or tenderness in the upper trapezius muscle, often on the side of the mirror, or retracting, arm (Fig. 1). 
The trapezius muscle is one of the large muscles situated at the base of the neck that runs all the way down to the shoulder blades. There are various conditions and movements that can cause this muscle to spasm and some would require proper assessment of a doctor. With this in mind, it is vital to understand the causes and treatment options when it comes to spasms of the trapezius muscle. The spasms of the trapezius muscle usually occur once the muscle is stretched, torn or strained. Take note that this can develop when the individual unexpectedly falls, lifting heavy objects frequently, abrupt movement that strains the muscle or twisting while lifting.
The spasms of the trapezius muscle can be accompanied by pain, stiffness, tingling and weakness. When the muscle starts to spasm, the fibers inside will contract at the same time. The tightened muscle fibers will disrupt the flow of blood to the muscle, causing further pain and irritation. The spasms of the trapezius muscle usually occur once the muscle is stretched, torn or strained. Take note that this can develop when the individual unexpectedly falls, lifting heavy objects frequently, abrupt movement that strains the muscle or twisting while lifting.
The upper trapezius is a large muscle broken down into upper, middle and lower fibers. The upper trapezius originates at the skull and the ligamentum nuchae (posterior neck ligaments) and inserts on the clavicle. This upper trapezius muscle acts to elevate the scapula and to extend, rotate and side-bend the neck. 
Trapezius muscle spasms can be painful and debilitating. Photo Credit Pixland/Pixland/Getty Images. The trapezius muscle is a large muscle located at the base of the neck, running down to the shoulder blades. A variety of conditions and actions can cause this muscle to spasm, some that require the attention of a doctor. Therefore, it is important to understand the causes and treatments of trapezius muscle spasms.
Characteristics/Clinical Presentation. The clinical presentation of Trapezius myalgia is chronic neck pain, pain, spasms and tenderness in the upper trapezius. The trigger points in the muscle results in painful headarches behind the eye, into the temple and in the back of the neck. Definition/Description. Trapezius Myalgia is chronic pain of the upper trapezius muscle, most frequent is neck pain. It is a complex and multifactorial condition.
Trapezitis is an inflammatory pain arising from the trapezius muscle (Picture 1) causing a severe neck spasm. Picture 1: Trapezius Muscle. (Source: Wikimedia Commons). The treatment of trapezitis is conservative and consists of analgesics and muscle relaxants during the painful episode of neck spasm. This should be coupled with complete rest to the muscle which is ensured with a soft cervical collar.