In addition, biguanides may be used to improve the effectiveness of insulin therapy. Biguanides have been shown to be effective in treating children and adolescents diagnosed with type 2 diabetes. In some cases, biguanides may be used to treat pre-diabetes. This class of medications is not recommended for those with very low insulin levels as well as those with serious medical conditions such as kidney, lung or liver disease. Those preparing for major surgery also should not take a biguanide
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Biguanides are a class of chemicals that include some important pharmaceutical drugs. Metformin, thought to be the most-prescribed anti-diabetic drug, is in this class. There is also a drug for treating malaria called proguanil that is a biguanide. 
Biguanide (Metformin). The only biguanide used is metformin. It is available in different forms-tablets for immediate release (up to three times per day) or prolonged release (usually once per day), and oral solution and powder for oral solution for immediate release. Metformin works in two ways: 1  It helps to stop the liver producing new glucose.
Medical Definition of BIGUANIDE. : any of a group of hypoglycemia-inducing drugs (as metformin) used especially in the treatment of diabetes—see proguanil. 
biguanides (bīgwan´īdz) , n.pl orally administered agents used in the treatment of type 2 diabetes, which prevents the liver from breaking down glycogen into glucose and increases the sensitivity body tissues have to insulin. 
As a class of medication used to treat type 2 diabetes, biguanides lower blood sugar in two ways. Their primary action is to reduce the amount of sugar produced by the liver. In addition, they can also increase the amount of sugar absorbed by muscle cells and decrease insulin resistance. In some cases, biguanides may be used to treat pre-diabetes. This class of medications is not recommended for those with very low insulin levels as well as those with serious medical conditions such as kidney, lung or liver disease.
Biguanide is the organic compound with the formula HN(C(NH)NH 2) 2. It is a colorless solid that dissolves in water to give highly basic solution. These solutions slowly hydrolyse to ammonia and urea. Galega officinalis (French lilac) was used in diabetes treatment for centuries. In the 1920s, guanidine compounds were discovered in Galega extracts. Animal studies showed that these compounds lowered blood glucose levels.
Biguanides. Biguanides prevent the production of glucose in the liver. The term biguanide refers to a group of oral type 2 diabetes drugs that work by preventing the production of glucose in the liver, improving the body’s sensitivity towards insulin and reducing the amount of sugar absorbed by the intestines. Biguanides work by preventing the liver from converting fats and amino-acids into glucose. They also activate an enzyme (AMPK) which helps cells to respond more effectively to insulin and take in glucose from the blood.
Biguanide. Biguanide can refer to a molecule, or to a class of drugs based upon this molecule. Biguanides can function as oral antihyperglycemic drugs used for diabetes mellitus or prediabetes treatment. They are also used as antimalarial drugs. The disinfectant polyaminopropyl biguanide features biguanide functional groups. 