A patient care technician will monitor food intake and help make sure the patient receives meals on time. If any changes occur, a technician will need to mark it on the chart. If a patient is confined to bed, a technician will make sure bedsores or skin problems are forbidden.
Patient care technician job description. Lets start with patient care technician brief job overview. A patient care technican is an important job in terms of the medical profession. These professionals will provide help to patients in clinics, nursing homes and hospitals.
Moderately or severely ill patients need a caretaker or a patient care technician; who can provide medical and non-medical assistance while monitoring their health. A certified nursing assistant can work as a patient care technician and is allowed to take care of the patient as he/she is a trained professional. What do patient care technicians do? They help the patients in hospitals, clinics, physician's office, rehabilitation centers or even patients at home, in various ways.
Job responsibilities of a patient care technician. The main duty of a patient care technician ranges from assisting patients and helping them with daily tasks, checking blood pressure and pulse. They will also help the other medical professionals to perform a physical test.
Patient care technicians assist patients with tasks they are unable to do for themselves. A patient care technician may deliver food trays and help feed the patient if necessary. They may also help patients walk, perform range of motion exercises, or position themselves comfortably in their beds.
A patient care technician is an important job in the medical profession. A technician will provide help to patients in hospitals, doctor’s offices and nursing homes. A nurse or doctor normally supervises the technician; however, the individual will spend the most time with patients. A patient care technician will check blood pressure, heart rate and pulse. She will also check temperature. A technician will help the doctor perform a physical exam and change bedding. Some technicians will help patients bathe, shave or change clothes.
Career Overview. A patient care technician may also be called a hospital assistant, certified nurse assistant (CNA), patient care assistant, orderly, or nurse aide. Patient care technicians work with doctors, nurses, and other health care professionals in a variety of health care facilities.