There are three sources of genetic variation: mutation, gene flow, and sexual reproduction. A mutation is simply a change in the DNA. Mutations themselves are not very common and are usually harmful to a population. Because of this, mutations are usually selected against through evolutionary processes. This method increases genetic variation because introducing new alleles into a population increases the amount of diversity. The more alleles available in a population, the more variation that can occur. Sexual reproduction leads to genetic variation because it creates new gene combinations.
Inherited variation. Variation due to genetic causes is inherited variation. For example, children usually look a little like their father, and a little like their mother, but they will not be identical to either of their parents. This is because they get half of their inherited features from each parent. 
By Regina Bailey. Definition: In genetic variation, the genes of organisms within a population change. Gene alleles determine distinct traits that can be passed on from parents to offspring. Gene variation is important to the process of natural selection. The genetic variations that arise in a population happen by chance, but the process of natural selection does not. Natural selection is the result of the interactions between genetic variations in a population and the environment. The environment determines which variations are more favorable. Genetic variation occurs mainly through DNA mutation, gene flow (movement of genes from one population to another) and sexual reproduction.
Human genetic variation is the genetic differences both within and among populations. There may be multiple variants of any given gene in the human population (genes), leading to polymorphism. The second main cause of genetic variation is due to the high degree of neutrality of most mutations. Most mutations do not appear to have any selective effect one way or the other on the organism. The main cause is genetic drift, this is the effect of random changes in the gene pool.
Inherited causes of variation. Variation in a characteristic that is a result of genetic inheritance from the parents is called inherited variation. Children usually look a little like their father, and a little like their mother, but they will not be identical to either of their parents.
Your genes have alleles, which are different forms of the same gene. Alleles are like a code for your body that determine hair color and eye color, height, and other genetic features. Genetic variation is the variation in alleles and genes, both within and among populations. Think of a population as a family unit. Within your family of closely-related individuals there is genetic variation. Within a neighborhood, there are many families, and so there is also genetic variation among that larger group. This method increases genetic variation because introducing new alleles into a population increases the amount of diversity. The more alleles available in a population, the more variation that can occur. Sexual reproduction leads to genetic variation because it creates new gene combinations.
1 Mutations are changes in the DNA. 2  A single mutation can have a large effect, but in many cases, evolutionary change is based on the accumulation of many mutations. 3  Gene flow is any movement of genes from one population to another and is an important source of genetic variation. Genetic variation. Without genetic variation, some of the basic mechanisms of evolutionary change cannot operate. There are three primary sources of genetic variation, which we will learn more about: 1  Mutations are changes in the DNA. 2  Gene flow is any movement of genes from one population to another and is an important source of genetic variation. 3  Sex can introduce new gene combinations into a popul
Genetic variation is a fact that a biological system – individual and population – is different over space. It is the base of the genetic variability of different biological systems in space. Genetic variation is based on the variation in alleles of genes in a gene pool. It occurs both within and among populations, supported by individual carriers of the variant genes. Genetic variation is brought about by random mutation, which is a permanent change in the chemical structure of a gene. Random mutations are the ultimate source of genetic variation. Mutations are likely to be rare and most mutations are neutral or deleterious, but in some instances the new alleles can be favored by natural selection.