In contrast, unrefined, unprocessed salt contributes many dozens of trace minerals to the body that are not necessarily available from other sources. With the trace minerals, the salt is able to transport nutrients into the body's cells (and toxins out of the cells) while maintaining the body's fluid balance. The body's cells retain refined salt because it lacks trace minerals. Electrolyte balance is disturbed. The ultimate result is dehydration, edema, and high blood pressure. Insulin and blood sugar levels are also disrupted.
Refined salt--that's the table salt sold in the supermarket--now tastes thin to me and causes raging thirst. While refined salt causes water retention and dehydration, what's surprising is that unrefined salt rehydrates and restores fluid balance. The body's cells retain refined salt because it lacks trace minerals. Electrolyte balance is disturbed. The ultimate result is dehydration, edema, and high blood pressure. Insulin and blood sugar levels are also disrupted.
As previously mentioned, unrefined salt has many healthy minerals associated with it. On the other hand, refined salt contains primarily sodium and chloride as well as toxic additives. Unrefined salt is a whole food product which is easily utilized by the body. 4. Iodine is added to refined salt to prevent goiter (swelling of the thyroid). However, as pointed out in my book, Iodine, Why You Need It, Why You Can’t Live Without It, there is insufficient iodine in salt to prevent thyroid illnesses or to provide for the body’s iodine needs.
Unrefined Salt. In contrast, unrefined salt contains all of it’s trace minerals and other elements that are naturally a part of it’s origin and never exposed to harsh chemicals. It ends up being much more than just sodium and chloride. A complete mineral analysis for Real Salt can be found here. Unrefined salt is a whole food product which is easily utilized by the body. Unrefined salt provides minerals (plus other important trace minerals) that help improve all bodily systems including the immune system, glandular system and the nervous system. As a culinary use, unrefined salt also has a unique flavor and adds great texture to many different kinds of dishes. Refined Salt. Just as I’ve written about the refining process of other pantry staples, white table salt is also bleached and refined. It’s brined in a solution which can include sulfuric acid or chlorine and heated to a point which removes all of its minerals and elements useful to our body.
Basic Facts About Unrefined Salt. Unrefined salt is often called sea salt. It is composed of 84 percent sodium chloride and 16 percent other minerals. Because of these other minerals, unrefined salt can have a grainy texture and is not usually pure white. By comparison, refined salt is 97.5 percent sodium chloride. Unrefined salt provides more nutritional value and can actually be good for you due to the 16 percent other minerals that are found in it. It helps to balance your body's electrolytes and supplies 92 vital trace minerals.
For example, unrefined sea salt (e.g., Celtic Sea Salt) contains over 80 minerals and elements—all the natural elements necessary for life. This is contrasted with refined salt which contains two major items: sodium and chloride. 4. Iodine is added to refined salt to prevent goiter (swelling of the thyroid). However, as pointed out in my book, Iodine, Why You Need It, Why You Can’t Live Without It, there is insufficient iodine in salt to prevent thyroid illnesses or to provide for the body’s iodine needs.
After sodium chloride (salt), the main mineral in unrefined sea salt is magnesium, which virtually everyone needs more of. Up to five percent of the weight of dry sea salt is a healthy and symbiotic mix of around 100 elements and over 80 additional compounds. 
There is a huge difference between refined and unrefined salt. Unrefined salt is packed with essential minerals and supplies the body with a proper balance of sodium and chloride with over 80 trace minerals. Refined salt is a poor food choice. It has no place in our diet. 4. Iodine is added to refined salt to prevent goiter (swelling of the thyroid). However, as pointed out in my book, Iodine, Why You Need It, Why You Can’t Live Without It, there is insufficient iodine in salt to prevent thyroid illnesses or to provide for the body’s iodine needs.