Lesson Summary. Talk therapy, or psychotherapy, is a mental health treatment that involves discussing a mental or emotional disorder in order to understand and cope with it. There are two basic types of talk therapy: psychoanalysis and cognitive behavioral therapy.
Freud’s psychoanalysis is both a theory and a therapy. Sigmund Freud (writing between the 1890s and the 1930s) developed a collection of theories which have formed the basis of the psychodynamic approach to psychology. His theories are clinically derived-i.e. based on what his patients told him during therapy. If you know very little about psychology, and you have heard of just one psychologist, the chances are that this is Sigmund Freud, the founder of the psychodynamic approach to psychology and psychoanalysis.
The Talking Cure and chimney sweeping were terms Bertha Pappenheim, known in case studies by the alias Anna O. , used for the verbal therapy given to her by Josef Breuer. Breuer found that Pappenheim's symptoms—headaches, excitement, curious vision disturbances, partial paralyses, and loss of sensation, which had no organic origin and are now called somatoform disorders —improved once the subject expressed her repressed trauma and related emotions, a process later called catharsis.
Psychoanalytic therapy. Psychoanalytic therapy is a type of treatment based upon the theories of Sigmund Freud, who is considered one of the forefathers of psychology and the founder of psychoanalysis. When Freud continued his work apart from Charcot he went on to develop his own method of 'talk therapy'. In his work Freud established therapeutic techniques such as free association, dream analysis and transference, many of which remain central to psychoanalysis today.
1 The structural model of personality. 2  Drawing upon his theory of the unconscious mind, Freud developed the concepts of the id, ego, and superego. 3  The ego is the everyday personality that we present to the world, but represents only a fraction of a person's true self. Later Life and Legacy. Freud developed cancer in 1923 and passed away sixteen years later. His ideas are still debated today, and his techniques and interpretations are widely accepted as the basis of modern psychoanalysis. Sigmund Freud is considered one of the most influential people in the history of psychology.
Psychoanalysis. Psychoanalysis, or “talk therapy,” is the most known form of psychological treatment. It is often stereotyped as sitting on a couch and talking about childhood. While this stereotype may be accurate in appearance, the actual process of psychoanalysis is much more complex
As Freud’s interest in the unconscious grew, he began treating patients with what was then known as “hysteria” or nervous disorders. Freud’s books on subjects such as the interpretation of dreams and the causes of neuroses became standards in the field. As the father of psychoanalytic theory, Freud’s theories are the most well-known. This is especially true for his theory on the interplay between the three factors within every individual’s mind: 1  The id – A set of unconscious energies, such as sexual or aggressive tendencies.