The Witness Protection Program is a service provided by the United States government that protects witnesses in major criminal cases from physical harm and intimidation. Among law enforcement, the program is better known as the United States Federal Witness Security Program, or WITSEC.
The program is administered by the United States Department of Justice, and operated by the United States Marshals Service. Few states such as California, Illinois, New York, and Texas, have their own witness protection programs for crimes not covered by the federal program.
Witness protection is usually required in trials against organized crime, where law enforcement sees a risk for witnesses to be intimidated by colleagues of defendants. It is also used at war crime trials.
Witness protection is usually required in trials against organized crime, where law enforcement sees a risk for witnesses to be intimidated by colleagues of defendants. It is also used at war crime trials.
­Witness protection is provided only for witnesses whose testimony is determined to be essential to the successful prosecution of a criminal case and in which the witness's life or the life of his family is at risk.
Staged photograph of a protected witness guarded by U.S. Marshals. Witness protection is protection of a threatened witness or any person involved in the justice system, including defendants and other clients, before, during and after a trial, usually by police.
The U.S. Witness Protection Program is a federal program in which a witness to a criminal activity is protected. It is also known as the Witness Security Program or WITSEC. This program was established under the Organized Crime Control Act.
The UK has a witness protection scheme, run by the National Crime Agency, but little has been revealed about it to date. Newsnight's James Clayton has been given an exclusive insight into the programme and the people who've been through it.
U.S. Marshals Service depiction of witness protection. Courtesy United States Marshals Service. Philip Tolomeo was a loan collector for a dangerous organized crime gang known as the Calabrese crew in Chicago from 1978 to 1988.