To get the maximum benefit, and completely detox your body 10 days on the diet is what most people recommend. Of course you should check with you doctor before starting this, or any other diet. But if you're just starting out going for just 2 or 3 days will work wonders. But following the Master Cleanse can be a difficult task, especially when you're watching TV and a juicy cheeseburger pops up on the screen. Avoiding these temptations is critical and requires a strong will and dedication to the diet.
The Lemon Cleanse, also known as the Master Cleanse, is typically done for a period of 10 days to one month. You can decide on your own how long you wish to do a Lemon Cleanse, or you can use your tongue as an indicator of whether you are fully detoxified. If you have a whitish coating on your tongue, this indicates that you have candida in your system. Frequency. The amount of time you do your Lemon Cleanse will influence how long you should wait before you do it again. You can do a Lemon Cleanse every three to six months. If you only cleanse for 10 days, you can do it again in three months. If you extend it out for an entire month, you should wait six months before you do it again
Normally, 2-3 bowel movements a day are common on this cleanse. Will I feel hunger pains during the diet? As long as you consume the lemonade mixture in regular intervals (atleast 6 cups and up to 12 per day) you should not feel any hunger pains. Natural gum has been used to help suppress cravings, and organic green/mint teas for a special treat. How many days should I do the Master Cleanse? It is recommended to cleanse for a period of atleast 10 days to acheive the maximum results/benefits that this cleanse has to offer. Some have cleansed for a period of up to 40 days, but this should not be done without extensive knowledge, experience, and consent from your health care professional
And Exiting the Master Cleanse. There's a lot of different peoples takes on fasting and the lemonade diet. While most people stick to the 10 day rule, there are some who say that it's okay to stay on the diet for 30 or more days. If you're just starting out on the Master Cleanse It's best not to stay on it for more than 10 days. Your body needs nourishment, and that comes from food. Now, the lemonade diet gives your body a much needed rest which is good
The Master Cleanse is a detox diet that allows the body to rejuvenate and cleanse itself from the inside out, but if not adhered to properly, the maximum benefits may not be obtained – complete detoxification and desired weight loss. You should do the master cleanse for 7-10 days for maximum benefits. During this time, you are required to consume a solely liquid based diet consisting of the lemonade beverage. The lemonade beverage is made up of freshly-squeezed lemon juice, fresh water, cayenne pepper and organic grade b maple syrup. Many people choose to do the master cleanse every 2-3 months for it’s detoxification properties. There is no set rule on how often you can do the master cleanse. However, it is not recommended that you stay on a liquid diet for the long haul unless it is out of medical necessity
- To cleanse the kidneys and the digestive system. - To purify the glands and cells throughout the entire body. - To eliminate all unusable waste and hardened material in the joints and muscles. - To relieve pressure and irritation in the nerves, arteries, and blood vessels. - To build a healthy blood stream. But following the Master Cleanse can be a difficult task, especially when you're watching TV and a juicy cheeseburger pops up on the screen. Avoiding these temptations is critical and requires a strong will and dedication to the diet.
Even though the recommended time to be on the cleanse is 10 days, it is not a hard and fast requirement. You can play with this number as you see fit, and as your confidence grows you can increase the number of days that you go on it, eventually building up to ten. 