Now re-discovered by the Western World. For over 4000 years Ganoderma Lucidum has been recognized by Chinese medical professionals as the highest ranked of all herbs found in the Chinese Pharmacopoeia. The Chinese name for Ganoderma is Lingzhi, means “spiritual potency”. Harveyscoffehouse.organogold.com. Is incredible how our health is in one Sachet of coffee, and our Ganoderma Lucidum Pills, god bless Mr. Barnei Chua, to make this great product that everyone drink with out creating an habits, i am bessed thanks to Mr. Chua. THANKS. http://simeonnava.net
Ganoderma is a genus of polypore mushrooms that grow on wood, and include about 80 species, many from tropical regions. Because of their extensive use in traditional Asian medicines, and their potential in bioremediation, they are a very important genus economically. 1 Ganoderma pseudoferreum-Responsible for the root rot of cacao, coffee, rubber and tea trees. 2  Ganoderma tsugae-A polypore which grows on conifers, especially hemlock; thus the common name, Hemlock varnish shelf.
Ganoderma Lucidum is the MOST ALKALINE FOOD IN THE WORLD! and is one of the most revered herbs in traditional Chinese and Japanese medicine, with a documented history of over 2000 years. Ganoderma is known as Ling Zhi in China and Reishi in Japan. Ganoderma lucidum is the scientific name for a species of red mushroom that once grew in the wild and is now being cultivated at special farms, in pristine growing conditions. Historical Background 1970 China and Japan successfully planted Ganoderma in a laboratory. 1975 Commercial production in Japan.
The Products. Once the Ganoderma mushrooms have been transformed, it is added to the Organo Gold family of products, including beverages such as our Gourmet Black Coffee, Gourmet Cafe Café, Latte Gourmet Cafe, café Mocha And Organic. green tea 
Organic Ganoderma Lucidum naturally occurs in a variety of colors, but the one most commonly cultivated is the red variety. This mushroom is very beautiful, but it isn’t beneficial because of its beauty. Often, this mushroom is referred to as Reishi or Ling Zhi, which is Chinese for ‘herb of spiritual potency’. People who consider using this type of medicinal product need to be certain that they are getting an authentic product that is organic and that offers a high amount of the fungus, because some products include fillers and only have 20% to 30% content of Ganoderma Lucidum.
One of the applications of organic Ganoderma Lucidum is in coffee. Ganoderma coffee, more commonly known as Gano Coffee, offers a different type of coffee for people to enjoy that includes a variety of health benefits. People who consider using this type of medicinal product need to be certain that they are getting an authentic product that is organic and that offers a high amount of the fungus, because some products include fillers and only have 20% to 30% content of Ganoderma Lucidum.
Organic Ganoderma Lucidum is a fungus that is found in tree stumps and logs that are decaying. It has been a part of Chinese traditional medicine for over 4,000 years, commonly used to treat hypertension, liver disorders, arthritis as well as other medical conditions. People who consider using this type of medicinal product need to be certain that they are getting an authentic product that is organic and that offers a high amount of the fungus, because some products include fillers and only have 20% to 30% content of Ganoderma Lucidum.
Ganoderma, also called the reishi mushroom or in Chinese ling zhi, is one of the most popular medicinal mushrooms in China, Japan, and the United States. This mushroom is also known as Lingzhi in China, Reishi in Japan, and Youngzhi in Korea.Ganoderma Lucidum is a rare, special mushroom created only when conditions are right.
Ganoderma coffee is not only a soothing beverage, but it also contains numerous health benefits. Widely popular in Chinese medicine, Ganoderma coffee is brewed using coffee beans that are infused with a certain type of mushroom or fungus known as Ganoderma lucidum, or reishi. According to University of Maryland Medical Center, taking 150 to 300 milligrams of Ganoderma lucidum extract two to three times per day may relieve urinary tract infections. However, if you are taking blood thinning medication, avoid drinking large amounts of Ganoderma coffee as high doses can thin blood.