Intonation may refer to: 1  Intonation (linguistics) , the variation of pitch used when speaking. 2  Intonation (music) , a musician's realization of pitch accuracy, or the pitch accuracy of a musical instrument. 3  Intonation Music Festival, held in Chicago. 1
Intonation. In Russian the meaning of an utterance is distinguished with the help of intonation. The voice tone can either ascend or descend. The ascent or descent of a tone occurs at the accentuated syllable of a word main in meaning in the sentence. According to the tone movement the following basic types of intonation are distinguished.
Intonation is also taken to signify the manner of musical expression, which determines the music’s meaning (defined by the feelings in the music), syntactic meaning (affirmative, interrogative), characteristic aspect (national, social), and genre (intonation of a song, aria, recitative). As an important element in language, intonation is correlated with other linguistic means: grammatical forms (for example, the imperative mood of the verb), interrogative and exclamatory words and particles, conjunctions, and word order. Intonation is always present in speech; without it speech is impossible.
(The term tone is used by some British writers in their descriptions of intonation, but this is to refer to the pitch movement found on the nucleus or tonic syllable in an intonation unit – see Intonation in English: British Analyses of English Intonation, below). Mandarin Chinese is a tonal language, meaning that pitch contours within a word distinguish the word from other words with the same vowels and consonants. Nevertheless, Mandarin also has intonation patterns—patterns of pitch throughout the phrase or sentence—that indicate the nature of the sentence as a whole.
Although intonation is primarily a matter of pitch variation, it is important to be aware that functions attributed to intonation such as the expression of attitudes and emotions, or highlighting aspects of grammatical structure, almost always involve concomitant variation in other prosodic features. Mandarin Chinese is a tonal language, meaning that pitch contours within a word distinguish the word from other words with the same vowels and consonants. Nevertheless, Mandarin also has intonation patterns—patterns of pitch throughout the phrase or sentence—that indicate the nature of the sentence as a whole.
• Intonation refers to the variation of the pitch as an individual speaks. • The difference between the two is that while stress pays particular attention to syllables and words, intonation can create an entire variation of the meaning through the usage of stress. Images Courtesy: 1  Party by Nicor (CC BY-SA 2.0). 
1 The rise and fall of the voice in speaking: she spoke English with a German intonation. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  Chinese is a tonal language: words are differentiated not just by sounds but by whether the intonation is rising or falling. 2  Yeah, it's not a question, but rising intonation makes it one. 1 Such features as pitch or intonation, rhythm and tone are the first elements to be distinguishable. 2  Textural clarity requires rhythmic precision, knowing the important line at any point in the score, dead-on intonation, and the ability to sing lightly and incisively at the same time.
Crystal for example says that ...intonation is not a single system of contours and levels, but the product of the interaction of features from different prosodic systems – tone, pitch-range, loudness, rhythmicality and tempo in particular.. Mandarin Chinese is a tonal language, meaning that pitch contours within a word distinguish the word from other words with the same vowels and consonants. Nevertheless, Mandarin also has intonation patterns—patterns of pitch throughout the phrase or sentence—that indicate the nature of the sentence as a whole.
1 Intonation (linguistics) , the variation of pitch used when speaking. 2  Intonation (music) , a musician's realization of pitch accuracy, or the pitch accuracy of a musical instrument. 3  Intonation Music Festival, held in Chicago. 1