Born into a comfortable, but not wealthy, Massachusetts farming family on October 30, 1735, John Adams grew up in the tidy little world of New England village life. His father, a deacon in the Congregational Church, earned a living as a farmer and shoemaker in Braintree, roughly fifteen miles south of Boston. 
What was John Quincy Adams profession prior to becoming President? John Quincy Adams, the 6th President of the United States, and son  of John Adams, the 2nd President of the United States, was the  current U.S. Secretary of State when he w … as elected President on  February 9, 1825. 
Introduction. John Adams (1735-1826) was a leader of the American Revolution, and served as the second U.S. president from 1797 to 1801. The Massachusetts-born, Harvard-educated Adams began his career as a lawyer
John Adams. John Adams, a remarkable political philosopher, served as the second President of the United States (1797-1801), after serving as the first Vice President under President George Washington. Learned and thoughtful, John Adams was more remarkable as a political philosopher than as a politician. People and nations are forged in the fires of adversity, he said, doubtless thinking of his own as well as the American experience. Adams was born in the Massachusetts Bay Colony in 1735. 
John Adams' Childhood and Education: John Adams family had been in America for generations when he was born on October 30, 1735. His father was a farmer who had been Harvard educated. He taught his son to read before he entered school under Mrs. Belcher. He lived to see his son, John Quincy Adams, to become president. He died on July 4, 1826, the same day as Jefferson’s death. Historical Significance: John Adams was an important figure throughout the revolution and the early years of the presidency.
Early Life. John Adams was born on October 30, 1735, in Braintree (now Quincy), Massachusetts. His father, John Adams Sr., was a farmer, a Congregationalist deacon and a town councilman, and was a direct descendant of Henry Adams, a Puritan who emigrated from England to the Massachusetts Bay Colony in 1638. Synopsis. John Adams was born on October 30, 1735, in Quincy, Massachusetts. He was a direct descendant of Puritan colonists from the Massachusetts Bay Colony. He studied at Harvard University, where he received his undergraduate degree and master's, and in 1758 was admitted to the bar.
U.S. Presidents John Adams. John Adams. Born: October 30 (October 19, Old Style), 1735, in Braintree (now Quincy), Massachusetts Died: July 4, 1826, in Braintree (now Quincy), Massachusetts John Adams worked as a teacher and lawyer before dedicating himself to a life of patriotism and politics. He was America's second president. 
John Adams was a Founding Father, the first vice president of the United States and the second president. His son, John Quincy Adams, was the nation's sixth president. Synopsis. John Adams was born on October 30, 1735, in Quincy, Massachusetts. He was a direct descendant of Puritan colonists from the Massachusetts Bay Colony. He studied at Harvard University, where he received his undergraduate degree and master's, and in 1758 was admitted to the bar.
Sixth President of the United States, eldest son of John and Abigail Adams. His Quincy ('Quin-zy') name came from his mother's side, Quincy being the family name of his mother's mother, Elizabeth Quincy. Their home was in Braintree (later Quincy), Massachusetts. 