With a mobile hotspot, you can create an Internet connection for up to five mobile devices on a 3G phone and up to 10 on a 4G LTE smartphone. After a few quick steps, the phone creates its own secure Wi-Fi network, which your devices can join.
Check out how to setup a portable wifi hotspot and use you wifi enabled tablet to connect to it when you are out and about without the tablet have a 3g mobile data contract. In this example I am using a Samsung Galaxy Note 2 II (GT-N7100 / GT-N7105) and a Samsung Galaxy Note 10.1 Tablet Wifi Only not 3G.
Using the tablet as a mobile hotspot will not only get your laptop online, it can share the connection with multiple devices. This is useful on trips with colleagues or the family. Some tablets will get as many as 10 devices online with the single connection.
Touch WPA2 PSK to set a password for your hotspot. You can use your Samsung Galaxy Tab as a portable Wi-Fi hotspot. This lets you share your phone's Internet connection with other devices via Wi-Fi. Please note that you'll be using data from your mobile network and charges may apply.
Instead of tethering your tablet to your phone's data plan, you may want to consider picking up a mobile hotspot from your local wireless carrier. A dedicated mobile hotspot can yield better results than tethering your phone's data connection.
This process is referred to as creating a mobile, wireless hotspot. To set up a mobile hotspot with your Galaxy Tab, heed these steps: Turn off the Galaxy Tab’s Wi-Fi radio. You can’t be using a Wi-Fi connection when you create a Wi-Fi hotspot.
2. You can use your Samsung Galaxy Tab as a portable Wi-Fi hotspot. This lets you share your phone's Internet connection with other devices via Wi-Fi. Please note that you'll be using data from your mobile network and charges may apply.
5. You can use your Samsung Galaxy Tab as a portable Wi-Fi hotspot. This lets you share your phone's Internet connection with other devices via Wi-Fi. Please note that you'll be using data from your mobile network and charges may apply.