There are 46 chromosomes in a normal human body cell, but in a sperm or an ovum (egg) there are 23 (half the number of chromosomes in a body cell. 2 people found this useful. 
The human body cells each contain a total of 46 chromosomes, which are grouped into 23 pairs, one set from each parent. Each cell receives a chromosome carrying the same traits from both parents, which then forms a pair. There are 22 pairs of normal chromosomes, and 1 pair of sex chromosomes. Millions in the human body. Each cell has 23 pairs of chromosomes that have genetic importance. 22 of these are autosomes and one sex chromosome. The 22 determine traits and sex chromosomes determine the gender-XX develops into female and XY develops into male.
There are 46 chromosomes (23 pairs) in a human body cell with the exception of the sex cells. One of each pair is inherited from the mother's egg, the other from the father's sperm. When the sperm and egg unite in fertilization, they create a single cell, or zygote, with 46 chromosomes. Millions in the human body. Each cell has 23 pairs of chromosomes that have genetic importance. 22 of these are autosomes and one sex chromosome. The 22 determine traits and sex chromosomes determine the gender-XX develops into female and XY develops into male.
Somatic cells (body cells) are haploid cells. They have 23 pairs of chromosomes. Reproductive cells (gametes) have half the normal number i.e. 23. This is because two gametes (one male and one female) have to fuse hence, restoring the original number of 23 pairs. Millions in the human body. Each cell has 23 pairs of chromosomes that have genetic importance. 22 of these are autosomes and one sex chromosome. The 22 determine traits and sex chromosomes determine the gender-XX develops into female and XY develops into male.
Therefore there is a total of 23 pairs of chromosome in a human body cell. However the human gametes formed by meiosis have haploid number of chromosomes i.e. they have only 23 chromosomes instead of 46; so that after fertilization the zygote has 23 pairs of chromosome(23 from the sperm and 23 from the ovum). Millions in the human body. Each cell has 23 pairs of chromosomes that have genetic importance. 22 of these are autosomes and one sex chromosome. The 22 determine traits and sex chromosomes determine the gender-XX develops into female and XY develops into male.
Females have two copies of the X chromosome, while males have one X and one Y chromosome. The 22 autosomes are numbered by size. The other two chromosomes, X and Y, are the sex chromosomes. This picture of the human chromosomes lined up in pairs is called a karyotype. In humans, each cell normally contains 23 pairs of chromosomes, for a total of 46. Twenty-two of these pairs, called autosomes, look the same in both males and females. The 23rd pair, the sex chromosomes, differ between males and females. 
But sex cells (sperm or ovum, known as gametes or diploid cells) contain only … 23 chromosomes (unpaired), when they meet (forming a Zygote), the 23 from each male and female gamete form a cell containing 46 chromosomes to make a Haploid cell. Yes, genes are constructed from DNA, and the chromosomes are where the genes are held, in the cell nucleus. Note that the chromsomes are not always visible. Normally the nuc … leus is just an amorphous mass of genetic material.
Whether you are a male or female depends on the presence or absence of certain chromosomes. Human cells contain 23 pairs of chromosomes for a total of 46. There are 22 pairs of autosomes and one pair of sex chromosomes. The sex chromosomes are the X chromosome and the Y chromosome. Sex Chromosomes: In human sexual reproduction, two distinct gametes fuse to form a zygote. 
All act in the same way during cell division. Human cells have 23 pairs of chromosomes (22 pairs of autosomes and one pair of sex chromosomes), giving a total of 46 per cell. In addition to these, human cells have many hundreds of copies of the mitochondrial genome. Compaction of the duplicated chromosomes during cell division (mitosis or meiosis) results either in a four-arm structure (pictured to the right) if the centromere is located in the middle of the chromosome or a two-arm structure if the centromere is located near one of the ends.