On September 24, 1995, the Republic of South Africa celebrated its first Heritage Day. The day was declared a national holiday by the first democratically elected government of South Africa, which was elected on April 27, 1994. 
Heritage Day is an important day for ALL South African’s. It is a day that celebrates all cultures, colours and creeds of all South African’s. Attached is a picture of some of our beautiful staff, from our Durban North branch, in their traditional dress. 
Heritage Day is one of the newly created South African public holidays. It is a day in which all are encouraged to celebrate their cultural traditions in the wider context of the great diversity of cultures, beliefs, and traditions that make up the nation of South Africa. In KwaZulu, the 24th of September was formerly known as Shaka Day, in commemoration of the legendary Zulu king
September 21, 2012 at 11:51 am. Heritage Day is an important public holiday in South Africa as it recognises different aspects of South African culture and encourages South Africans across the spectrum to celebrate their cultural heritage, the diversity of their beliefs and different traditions. Heritage Day is a national holiday where all South Africans celebrate their cultural heritage and embrace their diverse traditions and values that contribute to our “rainbow nation”.
...when South Africans celebrate the diverse cultural heritage that makes up a rainbow nation. It is the day to celebrate the contribution of all South Africans to the building of South Africa(sic) — Lowry 21:1995. Heritage Day is a South African public holiday celebrated on 24 September. On this day, South Africans across the spectrum are encouraged to celebrate their culture and the diversity of their beliefs and traditions, in the wider context of a nation that belongs to all its people. South Africans celebrate Heritage Day by remembering the cultural heritage of the many cultures that make up the population of South Africa. Various events are staged throughout the country to commemorate this day.
Last update on. . Happy Heritage Day to all South Africans! For those who don’t know, Heritage Day is celebrated every year on the 24th September and everyone in the country is encouraged to celebrate his or her own cultural traditions. 
Heritage Day is celebrated in Alberta on the first Monday of August. Although it is not a statutory holiday, it may used as an optional holiday to celebrate Canadian heritage in the province. Heritage Day is celebrated in Alberta on the first Monday of August each year. Although it is not a statutory holiday, many Canadians in Alberta use this day as an optional holiday to celebrate the province’s heritage. The Rocky Mountain Bighorn sheep is a symbol that is associated with Alberta
Heritage Day, also known by most of us as National Braai Day, is a fairly new public holiday that was. first celebrated in our country on 24 September 1995. Previously, this date was traditionally celebrated by the Zulu people as Shaka Day, to honour the. legendary King Shaka Zulu. 