allele, allelomorph - (genetics) either of a pair (or series) of alternative forms of a gene that can occupy the same locus on a particular chromosome and that control the same character; some alleles are dominant over others. 
A recessive Allele results in expression of the recessive characteristic if there is no dominant allele present. Trait in organism wont appear in the presence of a dominant allele. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. This page was last modified on 11 October 2006, at 03:25.This page has been accessed 66,239 times.
Remember, individuals must have two alleles for a gene, so someone could be homozygous dominant (EE), homozygous recessive (ee), or heterozygous (Ee). In this example, the recessive trait is having attached earlobes and is only seen in someone with the genotype ee (homozygous recessive). The unit of heredity of all organisms is called a gene, and it can have many different versions called alleles. Normally, individuals have two alleles for one gene. A dominant allele is usually designated by an uppercase letter and masks the effects of another allele, the recessive allele.
A recessive trait is the phenotype that is seen only when a homozygous recessive genotype for the trait of interest is present. This means that an individual must have two recessive alleles for the gene that determines this trait of interest. The unit of heredity of all organisms is called a gene, and it can have many different versions called alleles. Normally, individuals have two alleles for one gene. A dominant allele is usually designated by an uppercase letter and masks the effects of another allele, the recessive allele.
recessive. allele, allelomorph - (genetics) either of a pair (or series) of alternative forms of a gene that can occupy the same locus on a particular chromosome and that control the same character; some alleles are dominant over others.
You will recall that genes have different forms called alleles. An allele can be recessive or dominant. A recessive allele only shows if the individual has two copies of the recessive allele. For example, the allele for blue eyes is recessive. You need two copies of the allele to have blue eyes. A dominant allele always shows, even if the individual only has one copy of the allele. For example, the allele for brown eyes is dominant
When the alleles of a pair are heterozygous, one may be dominant and the other recessive. The dominant allele is expressed and the recessive allele is masked. This is an example of complete dominance. In heterozygous relationships where neither allele is dominant but both are completely expressed, the alleles are considered to be co-dominant. Co-dominance is exemplified in AB blood type inheritance. Definition: An allele is an alternative form of a gene (one member of a pair) that is located at a specific position on a specific chromosome. These DNA codings determine distinct traits that can be passed on from parents to offspring through sexual reproduction.
Another way to define a recessive trait is one that is never expressed by the heterozygous genotype. For example, the heterozygous genotype for earlobe type (Ee) produces detached earlobes because the dominant allele (E) hides the effects of the recessive allele (e). The unit of heredity of all organisms is called a gene, and it can have many different versions called alleles. Normally, individuals have two alleles for one gene. A dominant allele is usually designated by an uppercase letter and masks the effects of another allele, the recessive allele.
recessive allele, the member of a pair of alleles that lacks the ability to express itself in the presence of a dominant allele at the same locus. It is expressed only in the homozygous state. Compare dominant allele. See also autosomal-recessive inheritance.
(general) Going back; receding. (genetics) Of, or pertaining to, a gene (or allele) whose phenotypic expression is masked by a dominant gene (or allele). noun. (1) A recessive allele or trait. (2) An organism whose recessive trait is discernible or expressed. Supplement. In genetics, a recessive gene or allele is one in which the effect is not tangible, or is masked by the effects of the dominant gene. The recessive trait may be expressed when the recessive genes are in homozygous condition or when the dominant gene is not present. 