protein Any of a large group of organic compounds found in all living organisms. Proteins comprise carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen and most also contain sulphur; molecular weights range from 6000 to several million.
Proteins are the building blocks of life. Every cell in the human body contains protein. The basic structure of protein is a chain of amino acids. You need protein in your diet to help your body repair cells and make new ones. Protein is also important for growth and development in children, teens, and pregnant women.
All foods made from meat, poultry, seafood, beans and peas, eggs, processed soy products, nuts, and seeds are considered part of the Protein Foods Group. Beans and peas are also part of the Vegetable Group. For more information on beans and peas, see Beans and Peas Are Unique Foods.
The building blocks of proteins are amino acids, which are small organic molecules that consist of an alpha (central) carbon atom linked to an amino group, a carboxyl group, a hydrogen atom, and a variable component called a side chain (see below).
All proteins or polypeptides are a series of linked amino acids. A typical α amino acid consists of a central carbon (which is the alpha carbon in this case) that is attached to an amino group (-NH2), a carboxylic acid (-COOH), a hydrogen atom, and a distinctive R group.
Within a protein, multiple amino acids are linked together by peptide bonds, thereby forming a long chain. Peptide bonds are formed by a biochemical reaction that extracts a water molecule as it joins the amino group of one amino acid to the carboxyl group of a neighboring amino acid.
The amides contain nitrogen, and nitrogen composes about 16% of the protein atomic content. These proteins are created in the body by condensation of amino acids under the influence of enzyme catalysts, using patterns or direction from the nucleic acids in the cells.
The linear sequence of amino acids within a protein is considered the primary structure of the protein. Proteins are built from a set of only twenty amino acids, each of which has a unique side chain. The side chains of amino acids have different chemistries. The largest group of amino acids have nonpolar side chains.
protein (proh-teen) n. one of a group of organic compounds made up of one or more chains of amino acids. Proteins are essential constituents of the body; they form the structural material of muscles, tissues, organs, etc., and are equally important as regulators of function, as enzymes and hormones.
Amino acids are molecules which contain both a carboxylic acid and an amine group. In amino acid, the carboxyl group is more acidic than the carboxylic acid. 2-amino acids, also known as alpha-amino acids, are a specific type of amino acid that makes up proteins.