The Equal Rights Amendment is not yet in the U.S. Constitution. The ERA, affirming the equal application of the Constitution to all persons regardless of their sex, was written in 1923 by Alice Paul, suffragist leader and founder of the National Woman's Party. 1 ratification in three more of the 15 state legislatures that did not ratify the ERA during the 1972-82 ratification campaign, based on legal analysis that when three more states vote yes, this non-traditional process could withstand legal challenge and put the ERA into the
The Equal Rights Amendment states: Section 1. Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex. Section 2. 
Section 1. Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex. Section 2. The Congress shall have the power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the provisions of this article. Section 3. This amendment shall take effect two years after the date of ratification. 1 ratification in three more of the 15 state legislatures that did not ratify the ERA during the 1972-82 ratification campaign, based on legal analysis that when three more states vote yes, this non-traditional process could withstand legal challenge and put the ERA into the Constitution.
The Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) was a proposed amendment to the United States Constitution designed to guarantee equal rights for women. The ERA was originally written by Alice Paul and Crystal Eastman. In 1923, it was introduced in the Congress for the first time. State Equal Rights Amendments and original constitutional equal rights provisions: Alaska – No person is to be denied the enjoyment of any civil or political right because of race, color, creed, sex or national origin.
On March 22, 1972, the Senate passed the Equal Rights Amendment to the United States Constitution, which proposed banning discrimination based on sex. The E.R.A. was sent to the states for ratification, but it would fall short of the three-fourths approval needed. The Senate approved it in March 1972. The passed Equal Rights Amendment read, “Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any State on account of sex.”.
The ERA in the States. The Equal Rights Amendment was passed by Congress on March 22, 1972 and sent to the states for ratification by both houses of their state legislatures. A proposed amendment becomes part of the Constitution when approved by three-fourths (38) of the 50 states. During the next five years, 35 states approved the amendment. The 1972 Equal Rights Amendment states the following: 1  Section 1. Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex. 2  Section 2. 3  The Congress shall have the power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the provisions of this article.
The amendment guarantees that “equality of rights under the laws shall not be denied or abridged by the State of Oregon or by any political subdivision in this state on account of sex.” That text mirrors the language of the long-proposed Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) to the U.S. Constitution. The 1972 Equal Rights Amendment states the following: 1  Section 1. Equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or by any state on account of sex. 2  Section 2. 3  The Congress shall have the power to enforce, by appropriate legislation, the provisions of this article.