Jakarta is the capital city of Indonesia. It has a population of 8,540,121, and is located on a latitue of -6.21 and longitude of 106.85. Jakarta is also the political center of Indonesia, which is considered a Republic, and home to its Executive head of state. 
Indonesia is a country with a large population which is located in the continent/region of Asia. Countries near Indonesia include Brunei, Singapore, Christmas Island and Malaysia. Its biggest cities and towns include Jakarta, Surabaya, Medan and Bandung. 
Indonesia is on Asia (administrative), but Indonesia isn't exactly located on a continent. Indonesia located on group of islands between Asia and Australia, and the group of i … slands often called Nusantara in Indonesian. 3 people found this useful. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Indonesia is on Asia (administrative), but Indonesia isn't exactly located on a continent. Indonesia located on group of islands between Asia and Australia, and the group of islands often called Nusantara in Indonesian.
Located on the northwest coast of Java, Jakarta is the country's economic, cultural and political centre, and with a population of 9,761,407 as of December 2012, it is the most populous city in Indonesia and in Southeast Asia. Jakarta /dʒəˈkɑrtə/ , officially known as the Special Capital Region of Jakarta (Indonesian: Daerah Khusus Ibu Kota Jakarta), is the capital and largest city of Indonesia, (though Jakarta is also a province) and one of the most populous urban agglomerations in the world.
Indonesia, with over 18,000 counted islands, is by far the largest and most varied archipelago on Earth. It spans almost 2 million square kilometers between Asia and Australia. With a population of 248,216,193, Indonesia shares land borders with 3 countries: Malaysia, Timor-Leste and Papa New Guinea. 
It is a country largely of Southeast Asia and partly of Oceania. So, Indonesia is the country of group of islands located in the Indian Ocean and Pacific Ocean surrounded by many small seas. There are about 17,508 islands which collectively consist Indonesia. Surprisingly, this island country is fourth most populated country of the world. 
Location of Indonesia. Indonesia is located between the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. There are around 13,000 islands in Indonesia. Indonesian Islands experiences a hot and humid climate throughout the year. These islands are located along the equator between Asia and Australia. Due to its location, the weather is tropical in Indonesia.
Population: The population of Indonesia is 224,784,210. Location: Jakarta is located in Indonesia. Indonesia is located in Southeastern Asia, archipelago between the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Ocean. Climate: The climate of Indonesia tends to be tropical; hot, humid; more moderate in highlands. Local Time: The local time of Jakarta is Greenwhich Mountain Time +7 which is fifteen hours ahead of Los Angeles.