A part of the brain called the hypothalamus produces GnRH (gonadotropin-releasing hormone). GnRH is a hormone that triggers the pituitary—a pea-sized gland just below the hypothalamus—to release two other hormones: follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH).
The Male. 1  Hormone production begins in the brain where the Hypothalamus gland produces a hormone called Gonadotrophin Releasing Hormone (GnRH). 2  GnRH then travels through the blood vessels to gland nearby called the Pituitary gland (which is also in the brain) where it stimulates the production of two hormones.
As the follicles develop, they produce the hormone oestrogen. Once the egg has been released at ovulation, the empty follicle that is left in the ovary is called the corpus luteum. This then releases the hormones progesterone (in a higher amount) and oestrogen (in a lower amount).
1 Luteinizing hormone (LH) - LH stimulates testosterone production in men and egg release (ovulation) in women. 2  Follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) - FSH promotes sperm production in men and stimulates the ovaries to produce estrogen and develop eggs in women.
1 Hormone production begins in the brain where the Hypothalamus gland produces a hormone called Gonadotrophin Releasing Hormone (GnRH). 2  GnRH then travels through the blood vessels to gland nearby called the Pituitary gland (which is also in the brain) where it stimulates the production of two hormones.
Follicle stimulating hormone is one of the gonadotrophic hormones, the other being luteinising hormone. Both are released by the pituitary gland into the bloodstream. Follicle stimulating hormone is one of the hormones essential to pubertal development and the function of women’s ovaries and men’s testes. In women, this hormone stimulates the growth of ovarian follicles in the ovary before the release of an egg from one follicle at ovulation. It also increases oestradiol production. In men, follicle stimulating hormone acts on the Sertoli cells of the testes to stimulate sperm production (spermatogenesis).
Follicle stimulating hormone is produced by the pituitary gland. It regulates the functions of both the ovaries and testes. Lack or insufficiency of it can cause infertility or subfertility both in men and women.
Hormone Production. 1  Hormone production begins in the brain where the Hypothalamus gland produces a hormone called Gonadotrophin Releasing Hormone (GnRH). 2  GnRH then travels through the blood vessels to gland nearby called the Pituitary gland (which is also in the brain) where it stimulates the production of two hormones.