Julie Hellige Benhoff was feeling fabulous with Roy Benhoff at The Great Buffet at Sam's Town Casino. Alan Price was at The Great Buffet at Sam's Town Casino.
Dine. Sam's Town Shreveport offers a wide array of culinary experiences to satisfy every craving. Whether you’re looking for a quick bite, a taste of the South or a night out to remember, you’ll find it at Sam’s Town. William B's Steakhouse William B's Steakhouse tempts diners with a tantalizing menu of steaks, fresh seafood, and exquisite pastas. International Buffet Serving a Taste of the World, with a global experience fit for a king. Smokey Joe's Cafe Enjoy the unbeatable taste of the South for breakfast, lunch, or dinner any day of the week.
Willy and Jose's Cantina Andale! South of the border food and drinks are calling your name at Willy and Jose's Cantina, a Zagat award winning restaurant. Firelight Buffet Sam's Town puts a new turn on buffet dining with rotisserie specialties in The Firelight Buffet. T.G.I. Sam's Town Hotel & Gambling Hall • 5111 Boulder Highway • Las Vegas, NV 89122 • 702-456-7777. Don't let the game get out of hand. For Assistance call 800-522-4700.
Firelight Buffet. The Firelight Buffet features a wide variety of food items located in several different display cooking areas, including open rotisseries, omelet stations and carving stations. The buffet even has its own bar. 
The Great Buffet feat. Whether it’s world cuisine you’re craving or world-famous Corky’s® BBQ of Memphis, the Great Buffet brings you all the best to eat in one place. Make your sweet dreams come true at the chocolate dipping station, and belly up to the bar all you like—both wine and beer are complimentary at the Great Buffet. Sam’s Town Tunica has partnered with Pinot’s Palettes in Memphis to bring you a fun alternative to Thursday nights. Pinot’s Palettes brings a local artist to Sam’s Town Tunica who will guide you step-by-step through a featured painting. At the end of the night you leave with your own masterpiece.
Asian to Cajun to Italian, and even delicious desserts! Your biggest challenge will be deciding what to try first! Whether you want to travel to Japan, China, Italy, France, or prefer to stay right here in Louisiana, a dinner at the International Buffet can take you almost anywhere. A walk along the extensive buffet is like embarking on an excursion across the globe.
Hearty appetites will find everything they hunger for at our Great Buffet including FREE beer & wine. That's right! Choose from three draft beers and three wines! 
The ribs and pork are ruined by the way they are reheated at Sam's Town. The ribs are dry and tough (compared to Corky's eat in restaurants) the pulled pork on the buffet has a pool of water in the bottom of the pan. over a year ago · 61 Reviews ·. Alan Price was at The Great Buffet at Sam's Town Casino.
Sam's Town Buffet. The Firelight Buffet is located in the heart of Sam's Town. This beautiful buffet offers a comfortable location, a wonderful ambiance, and a relaxed atmosphere in which to enjoy your meal. Other stations feature Mexican and Chinese cuisines. The Firelight Buffet also has a carving station and open rotisseries. The buffet even has a bar for people interested in an alcoholic beverage to go with their dinner. Friday nights offers a seafood buffet with salmon, cod, catfish, clams, scallops, and more.