1 British English: totem In some societies, a family's totem is the particular animal, plant, or natural object which they regard as a special symbol and which they believe has spiritual significance. 2  NOUN. 3  Brazilian Portuguese: totem. Example Sentences Including 'totem'. One of his legs stayed rigid, which made the rest of him look like an Indian doing his thing round a totem pole. But I hope you understand-consular men are down the totem pole compared to embassy staff.
Full Definition of TOTEM POLE. 1. : a pole or pillar carved and painted with a series of totemic symbols representing family lineage and often mythical or historical incidents and erected by Indian tribes of the northwest coast of North America. 2. : an order of rank: hierarchy. See totem pole defined for English-language learners. Definition of TOTEM POLE for Kids. : a usually wooden pole or pillar carved and painted with totems and set up by American Indian tribes of the northwest coast of North America.
totem. noun to·tem \ˈtō-təm\. Tweet. : something (such as an animal or plant) that is the symbol for a family, tribe, etc., especially among Native Americans. : a usually carved or painted figure that represents such a symbol. a: an object (as an animal or plant) serving as the emblem of a family or clan and often as a reminder of its ancestry; also: a usually carved or painted representation of such an object b: a family or clan identified by a common totemic object. 2. : one that serves as an emblem or revered symbol.
2. US, informal — used to describe someone's position or level in a company or organization. She's rather low on the company's totem pole. [=she does not have an important position in the company]. He knows that he is (the) low man on the totem pole. [=he has the lowest rank; he is the least important/powerful person]. : a tall usually wooden pole that is carved and painted with symbols, figures, or masks which represent different Native American tribes.
Translations for 'totem'. 1  British English: totem In some societies, a family's totem is the particular animal, plant, or natural object which they regard as a special symbol and which they believe has spiritual significance. 2  NOUN. Example Sentences Including 'totem'. One of his legs stayed rigid, which made the rest of him look like an Indian doing his thing round a totem pole. But I hope you understand-consular men are down the totem pole compared to embassy staff.
totem pole. noun. Tweet. : a tall usually wooden pole that is carved and painted with symbols, figures, or masks which represent different Native American tribes. —used to describe someone's position or level in a company or organization. Definition of TOTEM POLE for Kids. : a usually wooden pole or pillar carved and painted with totems and set up by American Indian tribes of the northwest coast of North America.
Full Definition of TOTEM. 1. a: an object (as an animal or plant) serving as the emblem of a family or clan and often as a reminder of its ancestry; also: a usually carved or painted representation of such an object b: a family or clan identified by a common totemic object. 2. : one that serves as an emblem or revered symbol.
1. a: something (such as an animal or plant) that is the symbol for a family, tribe, etc., especially among Native Americans. b: a usually carved or painted figure that represents such a symbol.