Generically a nucleus is the center of something; a part around which other parts are gathered or grouped; a core: The word can also have specialist specific meanings here are two common examples. Biology-The nucleus of a cell is a membrane-bound organelle that contains most of the cell's genetic material. Nucleus of the Cell Think of it as the Control Center or Headquarters of the cell. The nucleus of the cell contains much of the DNA of the cell, and it regulates the act … ivities of that cell, whatever those activities are.
It is the nucleus, or, rather, those things in it, that control what the cell does, including those activities that keep the cell alive, as well as the things it does to contribute to the functioning of the organism whose structure it is a part of. The nucleus directs all the activities that go through the cell. Nucleus of the Cell Think of it as the Control Center or Headquarters of the cell. The nucleus of the cell contains much of the DNA of the cell, and it regulates the act … ivities of that cell, whatever those activities are.
1. cell nucleus; a spheroid body within a cell, contained in a double membrane, the nuclear envelope, and containing the chromosomes and one or more nucleoli. The contents are collectively referred to as nucleoplasm. 
By Regina Bailey. Definition: The nucleus is a membrane bound structure that contains the cell's hereditary information and controls the cell's growth and reproduction. It is commonly the most prominent organelle in the cell. The nucleus is surrounded by a structure called the nuclear envelope. This membrane separates the contents of the nucleus from the cytoplasm. The cell's chromosomes are also housed within the nucleus.
Nucleus. Definition. noun, plural: nuclei. (general) The core or the central part around which other parts are grouped or gathered. (biology) The large, membrane-bounded organelle that contains the genetic material, in the form of multiple linear DNA molecules organized into structures called chromosomes. In Botany, a nucleus is the central kernel of a nut or seed, or the center of a starch granule. In Anatomy, a nucleus is a group of specialized nerve cells in the brain or spinal cord. Word origin: L: kernel, syncopated var. of nuculeus, equiv. to nucu(la) little nut (nuc-, s. of nux nut + -ula-ULE) + -leus n. suffix.
918,847 questions onWikianswers. Nucleus can either refer to a part of an atom, or a part of a cell. In biology, the nucleus is the information center of a eukaryotic cell, and contains DNA to instruct the cell's life processes. In an atom, the nucleus is the central body of protons and neutrons.
In other fields, such as: In Physics, a nucleus refers to the positively-charged center of an atom that usually contains the protons and neutrons. In Chemistry, a nucleus is a fundamental arrangement of atoms that occur in compounds through substitution of atoms without a change in structure. In Botany, a nucleus is the central kernel of a nut or seed, or the center of a starch granule. In Anatomy, a nucleus is a group of specialized nerve cells in the brain or spinal cord. Word origin: L: kernel, syncopated var. of nuculeus, equiv. to nucu(la) little nut (nuc-, s. of nux nut + -ula-ULE) + -leus n. suffix.
More. The nucleus of something is literally its ‘little nut’. In Latin nucleus meant ‘kernel, inner part’, and was a diminutive of nux ‘nut’. Nucleus originally referred to the bright core at the centre of a comet's head, and then to the central part of the earth. Today its main technical meaning is ‘the positively charged central core of an atom
In cell biology, the nucleus (pl. nuclei; from Latin nucleus or nuculeus, meaning kernel) is a membrane-enclosed organelle found in eukaryotic cells. Eukaryotes usually have a single nucleus, but a few cell types have no nuclei, and a few others have many.