yes, The mud Crab (infact most crabs) will grow back any claws they have lost in fights (or to escape predators) within 1-2 months. This is quite common and a reason why you … should not pick one up by just the claws if you do catch one. good luck when you are out!! 3 people found this useful. 
Molting: How Crabs Grow. Crabs (and other crustaceans) cannot grow in a linear fashion like most animals. Because they have a hard outer shell (the exoskeleton) that does not grow, they must shed their shells, a process called molting. Just as we outgrow our clothing, crabs outgrow their shells. The time between molting (the inter-molt period) gets longer with every molt. A 2-year old crab may molt only 3 times, a 3-year old only twice. By the time they are 4 years old, king crabs will molt only once per year. They become sexually mature at about 5 years of age.
When eating food, mud crabs use their extremely powerful claws-the larger claw as a ‘crusher’ and the smaller claw as a ‘cutter’. Mud crabs also use their claws to defend themselves and can even drop a claw to facilitate escape. A new, fully functional claw will grow back in three to four months. Reproduction. The male can only mate with a female while her shell is soft, a period of about 48 hours after moulting. The megalopa later moults into a stage one crab. Stage one crabs are only about 4 mm wide, but frequent moults mean that they grow very quickly. It is thought that wild mud crabs grow to around 10 cm in width in about a year and become sexual mature in about two years. The typical life span of a mud crab is thought to be three to four years
Guest. Re:How fast do crabs grow. « Reply #1 on: September 01, 2003, 05:59:20 PM ». Every time they shed they grow about 25% on size, but the time on the intermolt (hard) stage depends on the size of the crab, lets say that a 10cm crab will take about a month to shed again and become a 13cm crab. more less
yes, The mud Crab (infact most crabs) will grow back any claws they have lost in fights (or to escape predators) within 1-2 months. This is quite common and a reason why you … should not pick one up by just the claws if you do catch one. good luck when you are out!! Yes, crabs can regrow a limb that they have lost or that they have dropped. What happens is that they grow a small gel limb and when they go down to molt, the leg is regenerated. Regular legs can usually be regrown in one molt, the pinchers take two and sometimes three molts for the limb to reach the appropriate size.
Red king crabs (Paralithodes camtschaticus) are a species of large crab that appear dark red or burgundy in color. Red king crabs can grow very large with carapace (the shell covering their back) lengths up to 11 inches and a five foot leg span. Red king crabs have tails, or abdomens, that are distinctive, being fan-shaped and tucked underneath the rear of the shell.
The species Scylla olivacea can grow up to 150 millimetres in shell width and 1.5 kilograms.Known for their big claws, mud crabs belong to a group of crabs that have the last pair of legs flattened for swimming. Page 1 of 4 The magnificent ‘muddy’ Mud crabs are prized by recreational fishers for their impressive size and delicious taste. Their powerful claws can be dangerous and mud crabs need to be handled with care. Females are often called ‘jennies’ and males, ‘bucks’. In Western Australia there are two species of mud crab. Mud crabs are found in Western Australia’s north-west from Shark Bay to the Northern Territory border.The mud crab species Scylla serrata can grow up to 300 millimetres in shell width and 2.5 kilograms
Re:How fast do crabs grow. « Reply #1 on: September 01, 2003, 05:59:20 PM ». Every time they shed they grow about 25% on size, but the time on the intermolt (hard) stage depends on the size of the crab, lets say that a 10cm crab will take about a month to shed again and become a 13cm crab.