The exchange of oxygen into the blood and carbon dioxide into the air allows the blood leaving the lungs to provide oxygen to the body’s cells, while depositing carbon dioxide waste into the air. Control of Breathing. Breathing is controlled by the brain and may be controlled both consciously and unconsciously. Alveoli. Alveoli are the functional units of the lungs that permit gas exchange between the air in the lungs and the blood in the capillaries of the lungs. Alveoli are found in small clusters called alveolar sacs at the end of the terminal bronchiole.
The lungs are organs of the respiratory system that allow us to take in and expel air. In the breathing process, the lungs take in oxygen from the air through inhalation. Carbon dioxide produced by cellular respiration is in turn released through exhalation. The lungs are also closely associated with the cardiovascular system as they are the sites for gas exchange between the air and the blood. The body contains two lungs, of which one is positioned on the left side of the chest cavity and the other on the right side.
The alveoli in the lungs are coated with a moist film that dissolves air in the lungs. Oxygen diffuses across the thin epithelium of the alveoli sacs into the blood within the surrounding capillaries. Carbon dioxide also diffuses from the blood in the capillaries to the alveoli air sacs. The lungs are also closely associated with the cardiovascular system as they are the sites for gas exchange between the air and the blood. The body contains two lungs, of which one is positioned on the left side of the chest cavity and the other on the right side.
The lung is a magnificent organ that performs a multitude of vital functions every second of our lives. Breathing is the most essential of these functions. With each breath, the lungs take in oxygen and remove carbon dioxide. The air (oxygen) we breathe enters the lungs via the main windpipe (trachea), which branches into two main tubes supplying the right and left lung, respectively. Mucus, a sticky fluid produced in the lungs, can trap these inhaled agents and aid the lungs' protective white blood cells (macrophages, neutrophils) in the engulfment and destruction of bacteria and other harmful materials.
Our lungs fuel us with oxygen, the body's life-sustaining gas. They breathe in air, then extract the oxygen and pass it into the bloodstream, where it's rushed off to the tissues and organs that require it to function. Oxygen drives the process of respiration, which provides our cells with energy. Our two lungs are made up of a complex latticework of tubes, which are suspended, on either side of the heart, inside the chest cavity on a framework of elastic fibers. Air is drawn in via the mouth and the nose, the latter acting as an air filter by trapping dust particles on its hairs.
Each lung is encased in a sack of tissue called the pleura. The lung is stuck to this sack by a small amount of liquid, which creates surface tension. It creates a very smooth surface so that as the lungs expand and contract they can ride over the heart and surrounding elements. 
The lungs are a pair of spongy, air-filled organs located on either side of the chest (thorax). The trachea (windpipe) conducts inhaled air into the lungs through its tubular branches, called bronchi. The bronchi then divide into smaller and smaller branches (bronchioles), finally becoming microscopic. 1 Pneumonia: Infection in one or both lungs. 2  Bacteria, especially Streptococcus pneumoniae, are the most common cause. 3  Asthma: The lungs' airways (bronchi) become inflamed and can spasm, causing shortness of breath and wheezing. 4  Allergies, viral infections, or air pollution often trigger asthma symptoms.
External respiration is the process of exchanging oxygen and carbon dioxide between the air inside the alveoli and the blood in the capillaries of the lungs. Air inside the alveoli contains a higher partial pressure of oxygen compared to the blood in the capillaries. Alveoli. Alveoli are the functional units of the lungs that permit gas exchange between the air in the lungs and the blood in the capillaries of the lungs. Alveoli are found in small clusters called alveolar sacs at the end of the terminal bronchiole.
At the end of the bronchioles are tiny air sacs called alveoli. In the alveoli oxygen passes into the bloodstream to be carried round the body. Carbon dioxide passes into the alveoli from the bloodstream to be breathed out. The right lung is divided into 3 sections called the upper, middle and lower lobes. The windpipe (trachea) divides into 2 airways, called the right main bronchus and the left main bronchus. One goes to each lung. Within the lungs, they divide into smaller tubes called the secondary bronchi. There are 2 of these on the left side and 3 on the right.
Carbon dioxide is expelled from the lungs by exhalation. Air is supplied to the lungs through the process of breathing. The diaphragm plays a key role in breathing. The diaphragm is a muscular partition that separates the chest cavity from the abdominal cavity. The lungs are also closely associated with the cardiovascular system as they are the sites for gas exchange between the air and the blood. The body contains two lungs, of which one is positioned on the left side of the chest cavity and the other on the right side.