Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Furikake is a Japanese condiment that is used to season rice in a number of Japanese dishes. It is a dry condiment that is made up of salt, sugar, dried and chopped seaweed, sesame seeds, and very small pieces of dried fish. The furikake is often sprinkled on top of the rice before the fish is added. The condiment is also frequently used to season rice that is simply served as a side dish.
For those just tuning in, furikake is a popular table seasoning in Japan that comes in many flavors. Furi means shake and kake means sprinkle, so furikake is the perfect condiment to sprinkle on top of rice, noodles, soups, eggs, pizza… whatever sounds good! It adds a little extra umami flavor to every bite!
Furikake usually consists of various ingredients such as sushi nori (seaweed), sesame seeds, dried tuna flakes, ground shiso leaf, salmon flakes, powdered soy sauce or miso, and dried egg. Furikake will add great taste to whatever you add it to, whether it’s rice, fish, or stir-fry. Why eat plain old white rice when you can spice it up with Furikake seasoning? Furikake is a lightly salted Japanese condiment that is generally sprinkled over cooked white rice or Japanese rice balls called Onigiri, but not limited to these things. It's as commonplace in Japan as salt and pepper is in America
Furikake is a condiment for hot plain table rice. The basic ingredient combination of furikake is sesame seeds, nori flakes, salt, and sugar. Additional flavorings such as dried flakes of salmon, egg, and fish egg are added to produce varieties of furikake. Use furikake as a condiment, as a coating for baked or fried dishes or add it to salads or prepared dishes. Nori is natural seaweed that is harvested and made into paper-thin sheets. Most of the nori marketed is already toasted before packing. Nori is used to make popular nori-maki (sushi rolls), inside-out rolls and onigiri rice balls.
The two we have currently are a noritamago flavor and a katsuo mirin flavor. Noritamago is a combination of the words “nori” and “tamago.” You know nori as the dark green seaweed sheets used to wrap maki sushi. In this furikake, the nori is cut into tiny pieces and serves as the salty element. Tamago is the Japanese word for egg, and this furikake contains lots of dried egg bits. There is also toasted sesame and a tiny bit of bonito flake in there too. We like to eat this on top of plain rice, on fried rice, and sometimes mixed into plain rice and pressed into a ball to form what is known as an onigiri. 
It is also common for furikake to be used in chirashi, which is a dish of raw fish layered on top of sushi rice. The furikake is often sprinkled on top of the rice before the fish is added. The condiment is also frequently used to season rice that is simply served as a side dish. Furikake can be kept in a dish that closely resembles a salt cellar in size and shap
Furikake. Furikake is a dry Japanese condiment meant to be sprinkled on top of rice. It typically consists of a mixture of dried and ground fish, sesame seeds, chopped seaweed, sugar, salt, and monosodium glutamate. 
Furikake (振り掛け / ふりかけ) is a dry Japanese seasoning meant to be sprinkled on top of rice. It typically consists of a mixture of dried and ground fish, sesame seeds, chopped seaweed, sugar, salt, and monosodium glutamate. It can be used in Japanese cooking for pickling foods and for rice balls (onigiri). Since 2003, furikake has increasingly gained acceptance in the US (particularly in Hawaii and the West Coast) as a seasoning for baked or fried fish, raw fish salads and snack foods such as furikake party mix.