The gland has a brownish red color, that’s because it’s rich with blood vessels. The thyroid is shaped like a butterfly, with a left and a right part, called lobes. When it’s its normal size, the thyroid is fairly flat, and you probably can’t feel it. But, even though it’s pretty small, it has a very important function. The hypothalamus sends a signal to the pituitary gland, and the pituitary gland releases a thyroid stimulating hormone to the thyroid gland. It tells the thyroid how much hormone the body needs. When the thyroid functions well, it releases the right amount of thyroid hormones
1 First, locate your thyroid gland, which is above your collarbone and below your larynx, or voice box. 2  Don't confuse your thyroid with your Adam’s apple, which lies above the thyroid gland. 3  Keeping your focus on this part of the neck, tip your head back, then swallow a drink of water. 1 Don't confuse your thyroid with your Adam’s apple, which lies above the thyroid gland. 2  Keeping your focus on this part of the neck, tip your head back, then swallow a drink of water. 3  Look at your neck in the mirror while you swallow, checking for any static or moving bumps.
The thyroid gland, or simply the thyroid /ˈθaɪrɔɪd/ , is one of the largest endocrine glands in the body, and consists of two connected lobes. It is found in the neck, below the laryngeal prominence (Adam's apple). Hyperthyroidism occurs when the gland produces excessive amounts of thyroid hormones, the most common cause being Graves' disease —an autoimmune disorder. In contrast, hypothyroidism is a state of insufficient thyroid hormone production. Worldwide, the most common cause is iodine deficiency.
The thyroid gland is below the thyroid cartilage (Adam’s apple) in the front part of the neck. In most people, the thyroid cannot be seen or felt. It is butterfly shaped, with 2 lobes — the right lobe and the left lobe — joined by a narrow isthmus (see picture below). Other, less common cells in the thyroid gland include immune system cells (lymphocytes) and supportive (stromal) cells. Different cancers develop from each kind of cell. The differences are important because they affect how serious the cancer is and what type of treatment is needed.
This cancer is called undifferentiated because the cancer cells do not look very much like normal thyroid cells under the microscope. This cancer often spreads quickly into the neck and to other parts of the body, and is very hard to treat. Thyroid lymphoma: Lymphoma is very uncommon in the thyroid gland. Other, less common cells in the thyroid gland include immune system cells (lymphocytes) and supportive (stromal) cells. Different cancers develop from each kind of cell. The differences are important because they affect how serious the cancer is and what type of treatment is needed.
Hashimoto's disease, an autoimmune condition, is the most common cause of hypothyroidism. In this case the immune system mistakenly targets and damages the thyroid gland, so not enough hormones are produced. Hashimoto’s disease is often inherited. Blood tests can diagnose many thyroid conditions. Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) is a hormone that controls activity of the thyroid gland. If your TSH is high, this typically signals that your thyroid function is low (hypothyroidism).
The pituitary gland produces TSH, which signals the thyroid gland to make thyroid hormones. If there is a problem with the pituitary gland and not enough TSH is produced, hypothyroidism can result. Inflammation of the thyroid and taking certain medications can also cause low thyroid hormone levels. Blood tests can diagnose many thyroid conditions. Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) is a hormone that controls activity of the thyroid gland. If your TSH is high, this typically signals that your thyroid function is low (hypothyroidism).
Thyroid eye disease (thyroid orbitopathy or TO) is a condition that causes the muscles and soft tissues of the eye socket to swell. It happens when you have a problem with your thyroid gland. 
© 2014 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. The thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland that sits low on the front of the neck. Your thyroid lies below your Adam’s apple, along the front of the windpipe. The thyroid has two side lobes, connected by a bridge (isthmus) in the middle. When the thyroid is its normal size, you can’t feel it. Brownish-red in color, the thyroid is rich with blood vessels. 