A grand jury indictment is a formal, written charge issued by a grand jury in a criminal case. Typically, the jury is charged with determining whether enough evidence exists to charge a suspect with a criminal offense. The jury usually consists of 12 average people who are randomly selected. In most grand jury indictment proceedings, a prosecutor presents evidence in the form of witness testimony. As a general rule, the prosecutor can subpoena any potential witness to provide testimony without showing that the witness is likely to have relevant information about the crime.
Indictment. An indictment is the official process by which a person is charged with a crime. Technically speaking, an indictment is a written statement that formally charges a person with a crime, as drawn up by a prosecutor and found and presented by a grand jury. An indictment is typically made for the commission of felony crimes. The indictment process typically begins with an arrest or citation and ends when the final charges have been brought against the defendant and a trial commences. The indictment process begins when a person is arrested or cited for a criminal act.
An indictment (/ɪnˈdaɪtmənt/ in-DYT-mənt), in the common law system, is a formal accusation that a person has committed a crime. The substance of an indictment or other charging instrument is usually the same, regardless of the jurisdiction: it consists of a short and plain statement of where, when, and how the defendant allegedly committed the offense. Each offense usually is set out in a separate count.
In both the state and federal systems, if the grand jury finds sufficient evidence of criminal behavior, it returns an indictment. Both an indictment and a typical information signify a determination by a neutral third party (grand jury or judge) that there is a factual basis for criminal charges. The next major step, short of a plea deal or dismissal, is likely trial. by: Micah Schwartzbach. Answer: Prosecutors in some states have the option of filing felony charges through an indictment rather than a complaint, which typically requires a preliminary hearing in front of a judge.
Indictment. A written accusation charging that an individual named therein has committed an act or omitted to do something that is punishable by law. An indictment is found and presented by a Grand Jury legally convened and sworn. The purpose of an indictment is to inform an accused individual of the charge against him or her so that the person will be able to prepare a defense.
Historically, in most common law jurisdictions, an indictment was handed up by a grand jury, which returned a true bill if it found cause to make the charge, or no bill if it did not find cause. The substance of an indictment or other charging instrument is usually the same, regardless of the jurisdiction: it consists of a short and plain statement of where, when, and how the defendant allegedly committed the offense. Each offense usually is set out in a separate count.
An indictment is a formal accusation against an individual suspected of committing a crime. Indictments are generally only obtained for felony charges. An indictment is used as an alternative to a complaint in a trial court. A complaint is also an accusation against an individual, but the individual generally must have been arrested as a result of probable cause against him before the complaint can be entered. How Indictments are Obtained. To obtain an indictment against a suspected criminal, the prosecutor must present her case to a grand jury. A grand jury is a jury made of a group of 16-23 local citizens who are sworn in as a jury about every 18 months.
What happens after a grand jury indictment is that the defendant is officially charged with a crime and a preliminary hearing is given so that the defendant can face the charges in person for the first time. This is really the start of the criminal trial. In most grand jury indictment proceedings, a prosecutor presents evidence in the form of witness testimony. As a general rule, the prosecutor can subpoena any potential witness to provide testimony without showing that the witness is likely to have relevant information about the crime.