A sarcoma is a type of cancer that develops from certain tissues, like bone or muscle. Bone and soft tissue sarcomas are the main types of sarcoma. Soft tissue sarcomas can develop from soft tissues like fat, muscle, nerves, fibrous tissues, blood vessels, or deep skin tissues. They can be found in any part of the body. 
Characteristics of Smooth Muscle. The normal characteristics of smooth muscle: Smooth muscle is found in many different places in the human body: Unlike skeletal muscle, smooth muscle is generally not identifiable from gross observation of the body. You have to know where to look where to find it. 
Cardiac muscle. Cardiac muscle tissue, like skeletal muscle tissue, looks striated or striped. The bundles are branched, like a tree, but connected at both ends. Unlike skeletal muscle tissue, the contraction of cardiac muscle tissue is usually not under conscious control, so it is called involuntary. Skeletal muscle looks striped or  striated  – the fibres contain alternating light and dark bands (striations) like horizontal stripes on a rugby shirt. In skeletal muscle, the fibres are packed into regular parallel bundles.
Smooth muscle 40X. Smooth muscle can be confused with cardiac muscle because the cells are often running in different directions, just as they are in cardiac muscle. Smooth muscle cells are a lot smaller than cardiac muscle cells, and they do not branch or connect end to end the way cardiac cells do. 
The cells of heart muscle are striated (like stripes on a tie) as is skeletal muscle. Cardiac muscle is a type of involuntary striated muscle found only in the walls of the he … art. They can contract but also carry an action potential (i.e. conduct electricity), like the neurons that constitute nerves. Smooth muscle is a type of non-striated muscle, found within the tunica media layer of large and small arteries and veins, the bladder, uterus, male and female reproduct … ive tracts, gastrointestinal tract, respiratory tract, the ciliary muscle, and iris of the eye. 2 people found this useful.
What are smooth muscles?   Smooth muscle is a type of non-striated muscle, found within the tunica media layer of large and small arteries and veins, the bladder, uterus, male and female reproduct … ive tracts, gastrointestinal tract, respiratory tract, the ciliary muscle, and iris of the eye. 2 people found this useful.
The glomeruli of the kidneys contain a smooth muscle-like cell called the mesangial cell. Smooth muscle is fundamentally different from skeletal muscle and cardiac muscle in terms of structure, function, excitation-contraction coupling, and mechanism of contraction. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Smooth muscle is a type of non-striated muscle, found within the tunica media layer of arteries and veins, the bladder, uterus, male, female, and all animals, gastrointestinal tract, respiratory tract, the ciliary muscle and iris of the eye.
The noun SMOOTH MUSCLE has 2 senses: 1. a muscle that contracts without conscious control and found in walls of internal organs such as stomach and intestine and bladder and blood vessels (excluding the heart). 2. muscle tissue that does not appear striated under the microscope; has the form of thin layers or sheets. Familiarity information: SMOOTH MUSCLE used as a noun is rare.