In this chapter we will discuss the evaluation of commonly tested reflexes of the spinal cord. We have previously considered reflexes involving the cranial nerves such as the pupillary light reflex, the jaw-jerk reflex, the baroreceptor reflex and gag. 
Cranial Nerves 5 & 7 - Corneal reflex The ophthalmic division (V1) of the 5th nerve is the sensory or afferent limb and a branch of the 7th nerve to the orbicularis oculi muscle is the motor or efferent limb of the corneal reflex. The limbal junction of the cornea is lightly touched with a strand of cotton. 
The ankle jerk reflex, also known as the Achilles Reflex, occurs when the Achilles tendon is tapped while the foot is dorsi-flexed. A positive result would be the jerking of the foot towards its plantar surface. Being a deep tendon reflex, it is monosynaptic. It is also a stretch reflex. 
Human Reflexes. Purpose: This exercise is designed to familiarize the student with spinal and cranial nerve reflexes. Performance Objectives: At the end of this exercise the student should be able to: 1. Define the terms reflex and reflex arc. 2. The calcaneal reflex or Achilles or ankle-jerk reflex is a stretch reflex that assesses the nervous tissue between (and including) the first two sacral segments. It can be elicited by sharply tapping the calcaneal tendon (just above the ankle) with the base of a Taylor hammer.
Purpose: This exercise is designed to familiarize the student with spinal and cranial nerve reflexes. Performance Objectives: At the end of this exercise the student should be able to: 1. Define the terms reflex and reflex arc. If the spinal cord is damaged, then reflex tests can help determine the area of injury. For example, motor nerves above an injured area may be unaffected, whereas motor nerves at or below the damaged area may be unable to perform the usual reflex activities.
A reflex action, differently known as a reflex, is an involuntary and nearly instantaneous movement in response to a stimulus. Scientific use of the term reflex refers to a behavior that is mediated via the reflex arc; this does not apply to casual uses of the term reflex.
A cranial reflex is one that is controlled by one of the cranial nerves and tend to take place in the facial or head area. These can include reflexes like the constriction of … the pupils in response to light, etc. A reflex is a quick involuntary action. There are five steps to a reflex: the stimulus occurs, the sensory neurons sense the stimulus, it sends a message to your spinal cord (… it doesn't reach the brain right then), the spinal cord sends a message to your motor neurons, and the reflex occurs.
The calcaneal reflex or Achilles or ankle-jerk reflex is a stretch reflex that assesses the nervous tissue between (and including) the first two sacral segments. It can be elicited by sharply tapping the calcaneal tendon (just above the ankle) with the base of a Taylor hammer. Repeat with the other limb. If the spinal cord is damaged, then reflex tests can help determine the area of injury. For example, motor nerves above an injured area may be unaffected, whereas motor nerves at or below the damaged area may be unable to perform the usual reflex activities.
Achilles reflex. n. A reflex bending of the foot resulting from contraction of the calf muscles when the Achilles tendon is sharply struck. Also called Achilles jerk, Achilles tendon reflex, ankle reflex, triceps surae reflex. An abrupt plantar jerk of the ankle, evoked by tapping the Achilles tendon with an unrestricted forefoot
The following is a summary of the cranial nerves and their respective functioning. Lesions of the nervous system above the spinal cord are often classified as peripheral or central in location. Peripheral lesions are lesions of the cranial nerve nuclei, the cranial nerves or the neuromuscular junctions. Central lesions are lesions in the brainstem (not involving a cranial nerve nucleus), cerebrum or cerebellum. If there is a lesion in the brainstem involving a cranial nerve nucleus along with other areas of the brain stem, then the lesion is considered both central and peripheral. This is a common clinical misunderstanding. Cranial Nerve XII The hypoglossal nerve controls the intrinsic musculature of the tongue and is evaluated by having the patient stick out their tongue and move it side to side.