Stroma is a alkaline, aqueous fluid which is protein rich and is present within the inner membrane of the chloroplast. The space outside the thylakoid space is called the stroma. The chloroplast DNA chlroplast ribosomes and the thylakoid sytem, starch granules and many proteins are found floating around the stroma. The word chloroplast is derived from the Greek word chloros meaning green and plastes meaning the one who form s. The chloroplasts are cellular organelles of green plants and some eukaryotic organisms. These organelles conduct photosynthesis.
Chloroplasts are present in all green coloured eukaryotic cells. Chloroplasts are the site where the photosynthesis function is performed. In short Photosynthesis occurs in eukaryotic cell structures called chloroplasts. A chloroplast is a type of plant cell organelle known as a plastid. Plastids assist in storing and harvesting needed substances for energy production.
Schematic of a chloroplast: 1. outer membrane; 2. intermembrane space; 3. inner membrane (1+2+3: envelope); 4. [stroma (aqueous fluid); 5. thylakoid lumen (inside of thylakoid); 6. thylakoid membrane; 7. granum (stack of thylakoids); 8. thylakoid (lamella); 9. Starch; 10. A semifluid matrix within the chloroplasts, called the stroma, bathes the thylakoids. The flattened thylakoid sacs consist of clustered stacks, called grana, their lumens interconnected by extensions, called 'stromal thylakoids', or lamellae. [See accompanying illustration at right.].
Stroma is a alkaline, aqueous fluid which is protein rich and is present within the inner membrane of the chloroplast. The space outside the thylakoid space is called the stroma. The chloroplast DNA chlroplast ribosomes and the thylakoid sytem, starch granules and many proteins are found floating around the stroma. In short Photosynthesis occurs in eukaryotic cell structures called chloroplasts. A chloroplast is a type of plant cell organelle known as a plastid. Plastids assist in storing and harvesting needed substances for energy production.
The innermost matrix of chloroplasts, called the stroma, contains metabolic enzymes and multiple copies of the chloroplast genome. Chloroplasts also have a third internal membrane called the thylakoid membrane, which is extensively folded and appears as stacks of flattened disks in electron micrographs. 
Inside the chloroplasts are stacks of discs called thylakoids. They are compared to stacks of coins within the walls of the chloroplast, and they act to trap the energy from sunlight. The stacks of thylakoids are called grana. Plants use energy from the sun in tiny energy factories called chloroplasts. The green color of leaves is attributable largely to these chloroplasts because they contain chlorophyll for photosynthesis.
Chloroplasts are organelles present in plant cells and some eukaryotic organisms. Chloroplasts are the most important plastids found in plant cells. It is the structure in a green plant cell in which photosynthesis occurs. Chloroplast is one of the three types of plastids. The word chloroplast is derived from the Greek word chloros meaning green and plastes meaning the one who form s. The chloroplasts are cellular organelles of green plants and some eukaryotic organisms. These organelles conduct photosynthesis.
Chloroplasts. The sketch of the chloroplast above was made from an electron micrograph of a chloroplast from a higher order plant (Levy). Plants use energy from the sun in tiny energy factories called chloroplasts. Using chlorophyll in the process called photosynthesis, they convert the sun's energy into storable form in ordered sugar molecules such as glucose. Plants use energy from the sun in tiny energy factories called chloroplasts. The green color of leaves is attributable largely to these chloroplasts because they contain chlorophyll for photosynthesis.
Inside a plant cell, there are tiny structures called chloroplasts. They are the structures that provide the cell with energy. Chloroplasts are organelles (structures within cells) that trap light energy and convert it into chemical energy, which is then stored in the cell. Chloroplast is only found in plant cells and contains the green pigment. It makes food for the plant through Photosynthesis. The chloroplasts are the parts in a plant cell i … n which sunlight CO2 and water are used to make sugars and oxygen.