“Forskolin” is one of the diterpene core ingredients that’s extracted from a small plant belonging to the mint and lavender family, known as Coleus Forskohlii. The Coleus Forskohlii plant has several other benefits aside from weight loss. It relaxes blood vessels walls, fighting against high blood pressure. For those that are not aware, Forskolin is not a brand. Forskolin is the natural active ingredient that helps with fat loss. There are many different brands of Forskolin Supplements out there on the market, but NOT all are created equal.
FORSKOLIN OFFERS MANY TOTAL-BODY BENEFITS*. Forskolin is an active compound that is extracted from the Coleus Forskohlii plant. The plant is related to mint, historically grows in India, and has been used in traditional Indian medicine for hundreds of years. 
coleus Overview Information. Forskolin is a chemical found in the roots of the plant Plectranthus barbatus (Coleus forskohlii). This plant has been used since ancient times to treat heart disorders such as high blood pressure and chest pain (angina), as well as respiratory disorders such as asthma. 
Forskolin (also called Coleonol) is a labdane diterpene that is produced by the Indian Coleus plant (Coleus forskohlii). Forskolin is commonly used to raise levels of cyclic AMP (cAMP) in the study and research of cell physiology. There is limited information on forskolin’s use in pregnant women. The safety has not yet been determined. Historically, Forskolin has been used to stimulate or promote menses in women as well as a form of oral birth control.
home vitamins, herbs, dietary supplements a-z list forskolin. Forskolin works on muscles in the heart and in the walls of the blood vessels. It produces a more powerful heartbeat and widening of the blood vessels, which lowers blood pressure. Forskolin is possibly safe for most adults when used appropriately by injection, inhalation (breathing in), or as eye drops. When given by injection, forskolin can cause flushing and low blood pressure. When inhaled (breathed in), forskolin can cause throat irritation, cough, tremor, and restlessnes
Forskolin is found in the roots of an herbal plant from the mint family. Web MD cites that this plant has been used since ancient times to treat health problems such as high blood pressure and chest pains as well as asthma. Forskolin Can Break Down Excess Fat. Weight gain results in excess fat in unwanted places. 
Forskolin works on muscles in the heart and in the walls of the blood vessels. It produces a more powerful heartbeat and widening of the blood vessels, which lowers blood pressure. Forskolin is possibly safe for most adults when used appropriately by injection, inhalation (breathing in), or as eye drops. When given by injection, forskolin can cause flushing and low blood pressure. When inhaled (breathed in), forskolin can cause throat irritation, cough, tremor, and restlessness.
Forskolin appears to work in a way similar to certain types of conventional asthma drugs, by boosting the levels of a compound called cyclic AMP. This helps relax the muscles around the bronchial tubes to make breathing easier. Forskolin has also been used to try to treat glaucoma. But there is no proof that it works. A small study indicates that forskolin may help relieve pressure in the eyes, which is often seen in glaucoma. But the study was done on healthy people. People take forskolin supplements for many reasons. But very little substantial evidence exists to back its use for any health condition. Some research suggests that forskolin may aid in weight loss and muscle building.
Forskolin is an extract from the roots of the Coleus forskohlii plant and is a relative of the mint family of plants. It grows wild in nature in warm subtropical temperate regions such as India, Burma, and Thailand. 
What makes forskolin so unique, though, is that its actions on cAMP levels are reversible, and it accomplishes this action without the use of other cellular receptors such as beta adrenoreceptors, contrary to other well-known fat burners such as ephedrine. Forskolin has leapt from the lab to the gym, and with good reason! It could help you burn fat, support healthy testosterone levels, and get more results out of your training.