Kelsi /kel-si/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name. Kelsi's root is Old English, and the meaning of the name Kelsi is victorious ship. Kelsi is an alternate form of Kelsey (Old English). Compare last name Kalsi. Kreatif forms: Kelki, Kelzy. Kelcie, Kelsea, Kelsey (#324 last year) and Kelsie are the popular alternative forms of Kelsi. Forms like Kelsee are uncommon. Usage of these girl names was at its peak in 1993 (usage of 0.5824%) and is now significantly less (usage 0.1352%, 76.8% less), with the versions Kelsea, Kelsi and Kelsie becoming less in vogue.
Kelsie is an Americanized respelling of Kelsey – a surname turned first name which was originally more popular for baby boys. 
Kelsey is a given name meaning 'from the ship's island'. The name could be derived from an English given name Ceolsige, which meant ship's victory could be an Old English place name meaning Cenel's island.. Cenel's Island is a combination of the Old English word cenel, meaning fierce, and eg, meaning island. 
Origin of the name Kelsey: Derived from the obsolete Old English name Cēolsige, a compounding of the elements cēol (a ship) and sige (victory). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Kelsie /kel-sie/ [2 sylls.] as a name for girls (also used as boys' name Kelsie) is of Old English derivation, and Kelsie means victorious ship. Kelsie is an alternate spelling of Kelsey (Old English). Kelsaw is a familiar last name. Kreatif forms: Kalsie, Keasie, Keisie. Presented below is the baby name popularity of Kelsie for girls. Kelsie entered the list in 1980-1989 and reached its top rank of #229 in the U.S. in the year 1993, but is not listed currently.
English Meaning: The name Kelsie is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Kelsie is: Brave. American Meaning: The name Kelsie is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kelsie is: Brave. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 7. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence. They would rather focus on large, important issues, and delegate the details.
Meaning of Kelsie. English name. In English, the name Kelsie means-brave.The name Kelsie originated as an English name. The name Kelsie is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-brave. Origin-England.
The name Elsie is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Elsie is: noble. Hebrew Meaning: The name Elsie is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Elsie is: From Elisheba, meaning either oath of God, or God is satisfaction. Greek Meaning: The name Elsie is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Elsie is: From the Hebrew Elisheba, meaning either oath of God, or God is satisfaction. Scottish Meaning: The name Elsie is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Elsie is: A, meaning 'my god is bountiful', or 'god of plenty.'.