Ebola Outbreak. The current Ebola outbreak that began in March 2014 is the largest in history. The three most affected countries are Guinea, Liberia and Sierra Leone, and cases have also been reported in Nigeria, Senegal, Spain and the United States. Live Science is covering the outbreak; check back for updates on the outbreak.
The Ebola outbreak in coastal West Africa is still contained to Guinea and Liberia, the World Health Organization announced Tuesday, despite rumors of the virus spreading to other countries. Cases have been reported in Sierra Leone, Mali and Ghana, but the WHO says none has been confirmed.
The DRC Ministry of Health declared an end to the most recent Ebola outbreak in DRC's Province Orientale. The November 26 press release reported a final total of 77 cases, including 36 laboratory-confirmed cases, 17 probable and 24 suspect cases, with a total of 36 deaths.
The current outbreak in West Africa, (first cases notified in March 2014), is the largest and most complex Ebola outbreak since the Ebola virus was first discovered in 1976. There have been more cases and deaths in this outbreak than all others combined.
The Ebola outbreak in West Africa was first reported in March 2014, and has rapidly become the deadliest occurrence of the disease since its discovery in 1976. In fact, the current epidemic has killed five times more than all other known Ebola outbreaks combined.
Recent Ebola Outbreaks. OUTBREAKS IN AFRICA: Linking human outbreaks to ape outbreaks Ebola outbreaks seem to occur in regions in or around the Congo. Multiple strains have emerged both within and between these outbreaks, suggesting that Ebola is endemic to this area. In fact, in the five most recent outbreaks (human and animal) in Gabon and the Congo, eight different strains were identified.
The Ebola outbreak in West Africa is the world's deadliest to date and the World Health Organization has declared an international health emergency as more than 3,850 people have died of the virus in Guinea, Liberia, Sierra Leone and Nigeria this year.