A warehouse is a commercial building for storage of goods. Warehouses are used by manufacturers, importers, exporters, wholesalers, transport businesses, customs, etc. They are usually large plain buildings in industrial areas of cities, towns and villages. Warehouse allow transport optimization along the supply chain, and allow companies to work with an optimal inventory (economic order quantity) regarding service quality. For example, at the terminal point of a transport system it is necessary to stockpile produce until a full load can be transported.
Used to support forecasting and decision-making processes across the enterprise, a data warehouse acts as a centralized repository of an organization's data, ultimately providing a comprehensive and homogenized view of the organization. A fundamental axiom of the data warehouse is that the imported data is both read-only and non-volatile. As the amount of data within the data warehouse grows, the value of the data increases, allowing a user to perform longer-term analyses of the data.
A warehouse is a large building where goods are stored, and where they may be catalogued, shipped, or received, depending upon the type. A warehouse is a building where goods are stored. Warehouse inventory is cataloged so the company knows what is in stock. Some warehouses' inventory control may be completely automated, while others keep physical records. View slideshow of images above.
Different people have different definitions for a data warehouse. The most popular definition came from Bill Inmon, who provided the following: A data warehouse is a subject-oriented, integrated, time-variant and non-volatile collection of data in support of management's decision making process. Subject-Oriented: A data warehouse can be used to analyze a particular subject area. For example, sales can be a particular subject
A data warehouse complements an existing operational system and is therefore designed and subsequently used quite differently. While an operational system is transaction or process-oriented, a data warehouse is subject-oriented, geared toward flexible analytical processing of high volumes of business data. A fundamental axiom of the data warehouse is that the imported data is both read-only and non-volatile. As the amount of data within the data warehouse grows, the value of the data increases, allowing a user to perform longer-term analyses of the data.
A warehouse worker’s job tends to vary somewhat depending on the specifics of the warehouse and what is stocked or processed there, but this person’s primary tasks usually have to do with selecting, organizing, and processing merchandise. 
194 pages on this wiki. The Warehouse is a building added in the update version 1.2.52. Its purpose is to store Items and exchange them for Resources or to use them. You can also buy these Items with Merits, a new currency that could be earned in the Hero Expeditions, in Team Dungeons an in Lost Realm. 
Companies often store goods in a warehouse. A warehouse is a building where goods are stored. Warehouse inventory is cataloged so the company knows what is in stock. Some warehouses' inventory control may be completely automated, while others keep physical records. View slideshow of images above.
In computing, a data warehouse (DW or DWH), also known as an enterprise data warehouse (EDW), is a system used for reporting and data analysis. DWs are central repositories of integrated data from one or more disparate sources. A data mart is a simple form of a data warehouse that is focused on a single subject (or functional area), such as sales, finance or marketing. Data marts are often built and controlled by a single department within an organization.