Causes. Carbon monoxide poisoning is caused by inhaling combustion fumes. When too much carbon monoxide is in the air you're breathing, your body replaces the oxygen in your red blood cells with carbon monoxide. This prevents oxygen from reaching your tissues and organs. 
Causes. Contamination of food can happen at any point during its production: growing, harvesting, processing, storing, shipping or preparing. Cross-contamination — the transfer of harmful organisms from one surface to another — is often the cause. This is especially troublesome for raw, ready-to-eat foods, such as salads or other produce. Because these foods aren't cooked, harmful organisms aren't destroyed before eating and can cause food poisoning. Many bacterial, viral or parasitic agents cause food poisoning. The following table shows some of the possible contaminants, when you might start to feel symptoms and common ways the organism is spread
Drunk redirects here. For other uses, see Drunk (disambiguation) . Alcohol intoxication (also known as drunkenness or inebriation) is a physiological state (that may also include psychological alterations of consciousness) induced by the ingestion of ethanol (alcohol). Acute alcohol poisoning is a related medical term used to indicate a dangerously high concentration of alcohol in the blood, high enough to induce coma, respiratory depression, or even death. It is considered a medical emergency. The term is mostly used by healthcare providers.
An intoxication results when a person eats food containing toxins that cause illness. Toxins are produced by harmful microorganisms, the result of a chemical contamination, or are naturally part of a plant or seafood. Some bacteria cause an intoxication. Viruses and parasites do not cause foodborne intoxication. The foodborne bacteria that cause intoxication are: Clostridium botulinum, Staphylococcus aureus, Clostridium perfringens, and Bacillus cereus.
Primary Cause of Water Intoxication. The primary cause of Water Intoxication is the result: 1  at any time, from the consumption of illicit drugs or prescription, over-the-counter, alternative medications or drug overdoses. Medications or substances causing Water Intoxication: The following drugs, medications, substances or toxins are some of the possible causes of Water Intoxication as a symptom. This list is incomplete and various other drugs or substances may cause your symptom
Some of the alcohol is converted to other substances (such as fat, as in beer belly ). Some is burned as energy and converted to water and carbon dioxide. A small amount is excreted unchanged in the breath and urine. The liver metabolizes about 90% of the ethanol. Alcohol is a generic term for ethanol, which is a particular type of alcohol produced by the fermentation of many foodstuffs-most commonly barley, hops, and grapes.
Alcohol Intoxication Causes. Alcohol is a generic term for ethanol, which is a particular type of alcohol produced by the fermentation of many foodstuffs-most commonly barley, hops, and grapes.
People infected with food-borne organisms may be symptom-free or may have symptoms ranging from mild intestinal discomfort to severe dehydration and bloody diarrhea. Depending on the type of infection, people can even die as a result of food poisoning. More than 250 different diseases can cause food poisoning. Some of the most common diseases are infections caused by bacteria, such as Campylobacter, Salmonella, Shigella, E. coli O157:H7, Listeria, botulism, and norovirus. 
Alcohol Intoxication Definition. A person is said to suffer from alcohol intoxication when the quantity of alcohol the person consumes produces behavioral or physical abnormalities. In other words, the person's mental and physical abilities are impaired. 