William Brooke Joyce (24 April 1906 – 3 January 1946), nicknamed Lord Haw-Haw, was an American-born Irish-British Fascist politician and Nazi propaganda broadcaster to the United Kingdom during World War II. He was convicted of one count of High Treason in 1945. William Joyce was born on Herkimer Street in Brooklyn, New York, to an Anglican mother and an Irish Catholic father, Michael, who had taken United States citizenship on 25 October 1894. A few years after his birth, the family returned to Galway, Ireland.
Lord Haw-Haw was the name British listeners gave to William Joyce, a German radio propaganda broadcaster during World War II. Born in Brooklyn, New York in 1906, Joyce moved with his English mother and Irish-American father to England in 1921. 
About this collection. William Joyce, aka Lord Haw-Haw, was a notorious broadcaster of Nazi propaganda to the UK during World War II. His announcement 'Germany calling, Germany calling' was a familiar sound across the airwaves, introducing threats and misinformation that he broadcast from his Hamburg base. In 1945, Joyce was captured and returned to Britain, where he was later hanged for treason. This collection features some of his broadcasts and interviews with those who knew him. Wartime documents reveal the fear caused by Lord Haw-Haw and how the BBC worked to counteract his propaganda.
The name  Lord Haw-Haw of Zeesen  was coined in 1939 by the pseudonymous Daily Express radio critic Jonah Barrington, but this referred initially to Wolf Mittler (or possibly Norman Baillie-Stewart). When Joyce became the best-known propaganda broadcaster, the nickname was transferred to him. William Joyce was born on Herkimer Street in Brooklyn, New York, to an Anglican mother and an Irish Catholic father, Michael, who had taken United States citizenship on 25 October 1894. A few years after his birth, the family returned to Galway, Ireland.
Lord Haw-Haw was the nickname of several announcers on the English-language propaganda radio programme Germany Calling, broadcast by Nazi German radio to audiences in Great Britain on the medium wave station Reichssender Hamburg and by shortwave to the United States. Announcers associated with the nickname Edit. A number of announcers could have been Lord Haw-Haw: 1  Wolf Mittler was a German journalist. 2  Mittler spoke near-flawless English, which he had learned from his mother, who had been born of German parents in Ireland.
Lord Haw-Haw was a nickname applied to wartime broadcaster William Joyce, remembered for his propaganda broadcasts that opened with Germany calling, Germany calling , spoken in an upper-class accent. A number of announcers could have been Lord Haw-Haw: 1  Wolf Mittler was a German journalist. 2  Mittler spoke near-flawless English, which he had learned from his mother, who had been born of German parents in Ireland. 3  His persona was described by some listeners as similar to the fictional aristocrat Bertie Wooster.
Joyce did the sensible thing and secretly escaped to Germany with his wife. Only three weeks later, Joyce was doing radio broadcasts for the Propaganda Ministry of Joseph Goebbels. There Joyce inherited the title Lord Haw-Haw from the traitorous Englishmen who had been doing the broadcast before him. The radio show consisted of Joyce reading propaganda into a microphone. The scripts were contrived to generate in the listening British fear and mistrust of their government.
In reference to the nickname, American pro-Nazi broadcaster Fred W. Kaltenbach was given the moniker Lord Hee-Haw by the British media. The Lord Hee-Haw name, however, was used for a time by The Daily Telegraph to refer to Lord Haw-Haw, generating some confusion between nicknames and broadcasters. Announcers associated with the nickname Edit. A number of announcers could have been Lord Haw-Haw: 1  Wolf Mittler was a German journalist. 2  Mittler spoke near-flawless English, which he had learned from his mother, who had been born of German parents in Ireland.
Lord Haw-Haw. 194,814 pages on this wiki. William Joyce, who was Lord Haw-Haw to British wartime listeners, now silenced and under arrest, lies in an ambulance under armed guard before being taken from British Second Army Headquarters to a hospital. Announcers associated with the nickname Edit. A number of announcers could have been Lord Haw-Haw: 1  Wolf Mittler was a German journalist. 2  Mittler spoke near-flawless English, which he had learned from his mother, who had been born of German parents in Ireland.
William Joyce, aka Lord Haw-Haw, was a notorious broadcaster of Nazi propaganda to the UK during World War II. In 1945, Joyce was captured and returned to Britain, where he was later hanged for treason. This collection features some of his broadcasts and interviews with those who knew him. Wartime documents reveal the fear caused by Lord Haw-Haw and how the BBC worked to counteract his propaganda.