During anaerobic exercise your body builds up lactic acid, which causes discomfort and fatigue at sustained levels. For this reason anaerobic exercise or high intensity exercise happens in short bursts. It may be helpful to consider the difference between a sprinter (anaerobic) and a marathoner (aerobic). Sprinting is an all-out effort that is sustained for a comparatively short period while marathoning is a sustained effort. In the simplest terms the difference comes down to the oxygen. With aerobic exercise oxygen is carried through your breath to the muscles giving them the energy needed to sustain the effort. Oxygen is not present with anaerobic exercise.
Lactic Acid: The burn you feel during exercising is mostly due to the buildup of lactic acid in the blood. Lactic acid is a byproduct of strenous exercise, which begins to accumulate at a certain effort and then builds up faster than it can be flushed away at strenous levels. Lactic acid accumulation has been assumed to be the cause of muscle burn for many years. In the past few years, it has been discovered that lactic acid is not a by-product but is actually a source of fuel for muscles.
How Your Muscles Get Energy. Lactic acid fermentation causes you to feel a burning sensation in your working muscles during exercise but not after. This is because of the process that your muscle cells undergo to produce energy. In anaerobic conditions, the pyruvate ferments to produce lactic acid. The lactic acid is used by your muscle cells to continue the process of metabolism of glucose for energy production.
These two words aerobic and anaerobic refer to energy pathways that are used during exercise. Aerobic means with oxygen and anaerobic means without oxygen. Fat requires oxygen to burn totally in order to burn fat in the time of the exercise, we need to move slowly and smoothly. This enables muscle cells to be supplied with enough oxygen to continue with its aerobic capacity and utilize fat as the main energy source.
The burn comes from your muscles’ production of lactic acid. Lactic acid is produced when you exercise at an intensity high enough to exhaust the muscle’s supply of oxygen. The muscles need oxygen to break down the glucose that produces energy. Without the oxygen, it uses enzymes to break down the glucose, and lactic acid results as well. Anaerobic Exercise. Anaerobic exercise is exercise that occurs in the absence of oxygen. It is the type of exercise — as opposed to aerobic exercise, which occurs in the presence of oxygen — that leads to the burn feeling. Anaerobic exercise is not, however, the optimal type of exercise for everybody. Anaerobic exercise is high-intensity exercise, and some people do not want to exercise at such intensity
anaerobic exercise. exercise at high work intensity during which the needs of muscle metabolism for oxygen exceeds the capacity of the circulation to supply it and an oxygen debt is incurred. anaerobic infection. one caused by aerobic organisms. anaerobic exercise, any short-duration exercise that is powered primarily by metabolic pathways that do not use oxygen. Such pathways produce lactic acid, resulting in metabolic acidosis. Examples of anaerobic exercise include sprinting and weight lifting.
The problem with the terms aerobic and anaerobic when applied to exercise is that we actually never switch from total aerobic to total anaerobic metabolic conditions. In reality, the more intensely we exercise, the greater the need for anaerobic energy production. 
A common term related to anaerobic energy production is lactic acid. Lactic acid is a by-product of producing energy anaerobically. When lactic acid accumulates at high levels in the blood, it could be cause of muscular fatigue. This is because anaerobic exercises cannot last long. Fat requires oxygen to burn totally in order to burn fat in the time of the exercise, we need to move slowly and smoothly. This enables muscle cells to be supplied with enough oxygen to continue with its aerobic capacity and utilize fat as the main energy source.