Cherry tree sap oozing. Our cherry tree has large amounts of sap running from all around the trunk and about 8 inches up every branch. I dug into a couple of the wounds and could not find any borers, but that is my suspicion. I had a cherry and a peach do the same thing, and it was borers. If that is there, peach tree borers are probably present. In that case, the borers may be causing death of the bark higher on the trunk by interrupting the flow of nutrients and water. Sap will be found oozing at the top of the dying bark. Don't do a lot of digging into the bark looking for borers.
I am a new fruit tree owner and am puzzled by one of my peach trees. I noticed that at the base of the trunk there is a gelatinous substance oozing out of the tree. It's not sap because it's not sticky or hard...just jelly-like. Sometimes this leakage is caused by borers, but on a very young tree it is likely to be a graft that has not closed completely, coupled with the high sap pressures of early spring. Hose off the gel and look carefully around the base of the tree. If you do not see borer holes you are in the clear.
Injury. Injury, whether mechanical or environmental, can cause sap to run from the tree. Use tree wraps on young trees or whitewash trunks to prevent sunburn. Adequate water and phosphorous fertilizer also help prevent damage. When mowing or using a weed trimmer, avoid damaging the trunks of trees. Peach twig borers and shothole borers make small holes with limited sap oozing. Peachtree borers can kill a tree by boring into the lower trunk. Dig them out of the tree with a pocketknife. Take care not to remove too much wood or you will kill the tree.
Q: The peaches on my peach tree are oozing a clear sap. This is becoming a yearly problem and I am picking lots of them off the tree. I do spray for disease and insects, but what I am using isn’t solving the problem. 
Gummosis is the oozing of sap from wounds or cankers on fruit trees. Gummosis can result from environmental stress, mechanical injury, or disease and insect infestation. Cytospora canker or Valsa canker, the fungal cause of gummosis, affects stone fruit trees like apricot, cherry, peach, and plum. Oozing sap or gummosis at the base of a cherry tree (Prunus), cause unknown; gummosis from borers would be mixed with frass. The thick, gummy or jellylike sap oozing from the trunk of this cherry tree (Prunus) is only a symptom, called gummosis, not a cause.
Peach trees produce abundant, sticky sap that can ooze out of the tree for a variety of reasons. The sap hardens into gummy yellow to orange nodules on the bark. Sap oozing can be caused by insects, diseases, injury or a natural response to environmental conditions in dwarf peaches. Peach twig borers and shothole borers make small holes with limited sap oozing. Peachtree borers can kill a tree by boring into the lower trunk. Dig them out of the tree with a pocketknife. Take care not to remove too much wood or you will kill the tree.
If you have a sap or jelly like substance oozing from the bottom of your fruit tree you probably have borers. Thankfully, you can get rid of them before the kill you tree or spread to other trees. Feel free to embed and link to these videos on your blog or website, when you do please credit frugalgreengirl. Resources: 
When sap oozes out of the peach tree, it is usually a signal that something is wrong. The loss of sap does not usually harm the tree, but the tree is weakened by the cause of this symptom. Getting rid of the sap depends on the reason the sap is coming from the tree. 4. Spray the peach tree trunk from the main branch, down to the ground. Apply enough of the solution that it puddles on the ground and drenches the soil. Apply again in the middle of July. Once the sap stops oozing, replace the soil around the base of