Meaning & History. From Greek ουρανος (Ouranos) , the name of the husband of Gaia and the father of the Titans in Greek mythology. His name is derived from ουρανος (ouranos) meaning the heavens. This is also the name of the seventh planet in the solar system. Related Names
Confidence votes 101. It is from the Greek word (ouranos) for sky, or heavens. The first planet discovered that was not known in ancient times, Uranus was named for the god of Heaven, Uranus, father of the Titans (Greek ouranos, sky, or heavens) and therefore grandfather of Zeus (Jupiter). The planet was discovered and identified as a planet in 1781. It was the name of the god of the sky. It was one of the gods from Greece that the Romans incorporated. He is also called Caelus by the Romans, which is a n … ame derived from the Latin word caelum meaning the sky or the heavens. 2 people found this useful.
Uranus is the only planet whose name is derived from a figure from Greek mythology, from the Latinized version of the Greek god of the sky, Ouranos. Like the other giant planets, Uranus has a ring system, a magnetosphere, and numerous moons. Uranus is named after the ancient Greek deity of the sky Uranus (Ancient Greek: οὐρανός), the father of Cronus (Saturn) and grandfather of Zeus (Jupiter), which in Latin became Ūranus. It is the only planet whose name is derived from a figure from Greek mythology.
Uranus is the seventh planet from the sun and the first to be discovered by scientists. Although Uranus is visible to the naked eye, it was long mistaken as a star because of the planet’s dimness and slow orbit. The planet is also notable for its dramatic tilt, which causes its axis to point nearly directly at the sun.
Best Answer: Herschel originally named the planet Georgium Sidus (Star of George) in honor of King George III of Great Britain. Later, astronomers named the planet after Uranus, a figure who embodied the heavens and was the father of Saturn and the grandfather of Jupiter in Greek and Roman mythology. 
Uranus was a name. It was the name of the god of the sky. It was one of the gods from Greece that the Romans incorporated. He is also called Caelus by the Romans, which is a n … ame derived from the Latin word caelum meaning the sky or the heavens. 2 people found this useful.
It is from the Greek word (ouranos) for sky, or heavens. The first planet discovered that was not known in ancient times, Uranus was named for the god of Heaven, Uranus, … father of the Titans (Greek ouranos, sky, or heavens) and therefore grandfather of Zeus (Jupiter). The planet was discovered and identified as a planet in 1781. Uranus is the seventh planet from the Sun and is the third largest in the solar system. It was discovered by William Herschel in 1781. It has an equatorial diameter of 51,800 … kilometers (32,190 miles) and orbits the Sun once every 84.01 Earth years.
[ 3 syll. u-ra-nus, ur-an-us ] The baby boy name Uranus is pronounced as Yuh-R EY-NahS or Y UH R-ahN-ahS in English †. Uranus is used chiefly in Dutch, English, Finnish, French, German, and Scandinavian, and it is derived from Old Greek origins. It is derived from the element 'ouranos' with the meaning sky. Ouranos (Old Greek) and Uranus (Latin) are older forms of the name. The name was borne in Greek mythology by the son and husband of Gaia; he was the personification of the sky. It is also the name given to the seventh planet from the sun. Urainas, Urainos, Urainus, Uranas, Urano (Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish), Uranos, Uraynas, Uraynos, and Uraynus are variants of Uranus. Uranus is not popular as a baby name for boys.