Dragon Ball Z (Japanese: ドラゴンボールZ(ゼット), Hepburn: Doragon Bōru Zetto, commonly abbreviated as DBZ) is a Japanese anime television series produced by Toei Animation. Dragon Ball Z remains a cultural icon through numerous adaptations, including a more-recent remastered broadcast titled Dragon Ball Kai (ドラゴンボール改(カイ), Doragon Bōru Kai, lit. Dragon Ball Revised) .
dBZ. Nondimensional unit of radar reflectivity which represents a logarithmic power ratio (in decibels, or dB) with respect to radar reflectivity factor, Z. You can either type in the word you are looking for in the box below or browse by letter. Search:
Dragon Ball Z follows the adventures of the protagonist Goku who, along with his companions, defends the Earth against an assortment of villains ranging from intergalactic space fighters and conquerors, unnaturally powerful androids and near indestructible magical creatures. Dragon Ball Z remains a cultural icon through numerous adaptations, including a more-recent remastered broadcast titled Dragon Ball Kai (ドラゴンボール改(カイ), Doragon Bōru Kai, lit. Dragon Ball Revised) .
Answer by R51386. Confidence votes 2. Dbz is the second season of dragon ball. it's an anime show about martial arts but these martial artist have extrodaniary powers. the main character is goku and it follows his life as he grows up and finds out what he really is. it's action and there is perverted moments in it. 
Dragon Ball Z follows the adventures of the adult Goku who, along with his companions, defends the earth against an assortment of villains ranging from intergalactic space fighters and conquerors, unnaturally powerful androids and near indestructible magical creatures. 1 During Gohan and Cell 's Beam Struggle in the anime, Piccolo, Krillin, Tien, and Yamcha unsuccessfully try to distract Cell before Vegeta succeeds in doing so, whereas in the manga, they all simply observe the struggle and Vegeta is the only one to attack Cell from behind.
1 Though the flashback of Future Trunks and Future Gohan fighting Androids 17 and 18 is present in both the anime and the manga, there are notable discrepancies between the flashback and the scene depicted in the TV special Dragon Ball Z: The History of Trunks. 1 During Gohan and Cell 's Beam Struggle in the anime, Piccolo, Krillin, Tien, and Yamcha unsuccessfully try to distract Cell before Vegeta succeeds in doing so, whereas in the manga, they all simply observe the struggle and Vegeta is the only one to attack Cell from behind.
It is a logarithmic dimensionless technical unit used in radar, mostly in weather radar, to compare the equivalent reflectivity (Z) of a radar signal reflected off a remote object (in mm 6 per m 3) to the return of a droplet of rain with a diameter of 1 mm (1 mm 6 per m 3). The radar reflectivity (Z) of a cloud is dependent on the number (N) and size (D) of reflectors (hydrometeors), which includes rain, snow, graupel, and hail. It is expressed by: As rain droplets have a diameter of the order of 1 millimetre, Z is in mm 6 m −3 (μm 3), a quite unusual unit.
While the original Dragon Ball anime followed Goku from his childhood into adulthood, Dragon Ball Z is a continuation of his adult life, but at the same time parallels the maturation of his son, Gohan, as well as the evolution of his rivals Piccolo and Vegeta from enemies into allies. Dragon Ball Z remains a cultural icon through numerous adaptations, including a more-recent remastered broadcast titled Dragon Ball Kai (ドラゴンボール改(カイ), Doragon Bōru Kai, lit. Dragon Ball Revised) .
Dragon Ball Z (ドラゴンボールＺ, Doragon Bōru Zetto; commonly abbreviated as DBZ) is the long-running sequel to the anime Dragon Ball. The series is a close adaptation of the second (and far longer) portion of the Dragon Ball manga written and drawn by Akira Toriyam 1 During Gohan and Cell 's Beam Struggle in the anime, Piccolo, Krillin, Tien, and Yamcha unsuccessfully try to distract Cell before Vegeta succeeds in doing so, whereas in the manga, they all simply observe the struggle and Vegeta is the only one to attack Cell from behind.
Dragon Ball Z is the sequel to the Dragon Ball anime and adapts the last 325 chapters of the original 519-chapter Dragon Ball manga series created by Akira Toriyama, that were published from 1988 to 1995 in Weekly Shōnen Jump. Dragon Ball Z remains a cultural icon through numerous adaptations, including a more-recent remastered broadcast titled Dragon Ball Kai (ドラゴンボール改(カイ), Doragon Bōru Kai, lit. Dragon Ball Revised) .