The Speaker of the House, who presides over the chamber, is elected by the members of the House, and is therefore traditionally the leader of the House Democratic Caucus or the House Republican Conference, whichever party has more voting members. The House meets in the south wing of the United States Capitol. The House of Representatives is one of the two houses of the United States Congress (a bicameral legislature). It is frequently referred to as The House. The other house is the Senate. The composition and powers of the House are established in Article One of the United States Constitution
The United States Senate is a legislative chamber in the bicameral legislature of the United States, and together with the U.S. House of Representatives makes up the U.S. Congress. The Senate uses Standing Rules of the Senate for operation. Like the House of Representatives, the Senate meets in the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C. At one end of the chamber of the Senate is a dais from which the presiding officer presides.
114th Congress Nominees. The official list of Nominees for the Office of United States Senator and for the Office of United States Representative in the One Hundred Fourteenth Congress. [PDF]. 114th Congress Election Statistics. The official list of Election Statistics for the 114th Congress. [PDF]. Historical Election Statistics. Official vote counts for federal elections since 1920 from the official sources compiled by the Office of the Clerk.
The United States Congress has an upper chamber called the Senate and a lower chamber called the House of Representatives (or “House” for short) which share the responsibilities of the legislative process to create federal statutory law. Congressional Sessions. Congress works in two-year sessions tied to the elections. Each session is actually called a Congress and begins in the January of the year following an election. We are currently in the 114th Congress which began on Jan 6, 2015. The 113th Congress ended on Jan 2, 2015.
Elections to the United States Senate were a part of the elections held in the United States on November 4, 2014 (and in some areas for a period of time ending November 4, 2014). Thirty-three Class 2 seats in the 100-member United States Senate were up for election as well as a few seats that were vacated early. The candidates winning these elections will serve six-year terms from January 3, 2015, to January 3, 2021 except for some special seats that are for part of the term. Additionally, special elections were held to fill three vacancies in other classes that occurred during the 113th United States Congress.
The 2014 United States House of Representatives elections were held on November 4, 2014. Elections were held in the United States on November 4, 2014 for all 435 seats of the House of Representatives, representing the 50 states. Elections were also held for the non-voting delegates from the District of Columbia and four of the five territories. The winners of these elections are serving in the 114th United States Congress, with seats apportioned among the states based on the 2010 United States Census.
Like the Senate, the House of Representatives meets in the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C. At one end of the chamber of the House is a rostrum from which the Speaker, Speaker Pro Tempore, or (when in the Committee of the Whole) the Chair presides. The House of Representatives is one of the two houses of the United States Congress (a bicameral legislature). It is frequently referred to as The House. The other house is the Senate. The composition and powers of the House are established in Article One of the United States Constitution