Some people complain of a general achy back of knee pain, others find their leg movements may be restricted by swelling or there may be a sharp pain at the back of the knee. Here we will look at the most common causes of pain behind the knee.
The bulge creates a feeling of tightness behind the knee as well as stiffness and swelling and pain behind the knee and calf. For many, this pain intensifies when flexing or fully extending the leg. Often, these cysts go away without any treatment.
Find an Orthopedic Specialist Near You. However, behind knee pain may be a symptom of deep vein thrombosis (blood clot in the leg), which is a serious and life-threatening condition. The blood clot can break loose and cause a pulmonary embolism in the lung, a heart attack, or even stroke. Deep vein thrombosis has similar symptoms to a Baker’s cyst.
Back of knee pain, also known as posterior knee pain, can come in varied forms ranging from slight to sharp pain behind knee to pain in the back of knee when bending to back of knee pain after sitting.
This includes a tear in a ligament or cartilage of the knee or arthritis. This can cause stiffness in the leg and discomfort. There are often symptoms of swelling and bruising behind the knee. The size of the cyst can determine the range of motion which is caused by the pain.
Symptoms: Swelling (like a small water balloon), tightness and pain behind the knee Aggravating Activities: Bending and straightening the knee, walking, kneeling Onset: Can come on after a blow to the back of the knee but usually comes on gradually.
Knee Pains When I Extend My Leg. posted about 6 years ago | Report. I've been working out consistently with no knee pains. This morning after my workout I went to work. As I was walking to the office door I felt a sharp pain in my knee. Sharp and painful. So I stopped and let the pain run its course. At this point I could not extend my leg so I took my time and tried to straighten my legs slowly. I was finally able to straighten my leg but I noticed that it clicked or popped.
One of the more common causes of pain in the back of the knee joint, specifically, is a popliteal synovial cyst, which is also known as a baker’s cyst. This fluid-filled cyst at the back of the leg often forms in response to arthritis or other cartilage damage.