You cannot catch shingles from someone who has shingles. You can, however,catch chickenpox from someone who has shingles. If you are not immune to the varicella zoster virus and you are exposed to someone who has shingles there is a very small chance that you could develop chickenpox. If you do develop shingles, make sure you contact your health care provider right away. The most common symptom is a painful rash on one side of the face or body. The rash forms blisters that typically scab over in 7–10 days and clear up within 2–4 weeks.
If you develop shingles during your pregnancy your baby will not be harmed as this is not a new infection. It is possible to catch chickenpox from someone who has shingles, so stay away from someone with shingles unless you are very sure you are protected from chickenpox. Reference: 'Chickenpox and pregnancy'. Heartburn and indigestion. Heartburn is a very common and uncomfortable problem during pregnancy. 1  You can relieve heartburn with an antacid solution or tablets. 2  Ask your pharmacist, doctor or midwife to recommend a product that is suitable to use in
1 Complications from shingles occur most often in older adults and are less common in pregnant women. 2  Shingles in pregnancy typically heals without long-term problems for mother or baby. 
Shingles. The chickenpox virus can be reactivated if your immune system is low. Shingles is therefore a condition that is more common in older people, or those who are immunocompromised (have a weakened immune system) due to an illness, such as AIDS, or following treatment for cancer. This is because catching chickenpox during pregnancy can cause complications for both you and your child. If you develop shingles while you are pregnant, your baby will not be affected.
GP and expert in baby and women's health. If you have shingles during pregnancy it won't harm your baby. This is probably because you already have immunity to the virus, and this protection is passed on to your baby. Shingles is caused by the varicella-zoster virus, which is the same virus that causes chickenpox. Although you can't give anybody shingles, you can pass the virus on as chickenpox. Whereas shingles is harmless in pregnancy, chickenpox can cause problems for an unborn baby. For this reason, stay away from other pregnant women while you have shingles.
Shingles Treatment During Pregnancy. Treatments can lessen the severity of shingles and reduce the risk of postherpetic neuralgia. These include the antiviral drugs acyclovir (Zovirax), famciclovir (Famvir), and valacyclovir (Valtrex). Shingles, which affects an estimated one in five people, is a painful, blistering condition. It can show up at any time, but is especially alarming if it strikes during pregnancy. Fortunately, shingles in pregnancy is rare. And, for most women who develop shingles during pregnancy, the outlook is good.
If you have been exposed to someone with shingles, and you have not had chickenpox or the vaccine, make sure you talk to your health care provider. Shingles is less contagious than chickenpox and the risk of a person with shingles spreading the virus is low if the rash is covered. If you do develop shingles, make sure you contact your health care provider right away. The most common symptom is a painful rash on one side of the face or body. The rash forms blisters that typically scab over in 7–10 days and clear up within 2–4 weeks.
Early symptoms of shingles include burning or shooting pain and tingling or itching, generally on one side of the body or face. For some people, the pain is severe. It may be accompanied by fever, chills, nausea, diarrhea, and difficulty urinating. Shingles, which affects an estimated one in five people, is a painful, blistering condition. It can show up at any time, but is especially alarming if it strikes during pregnancy. Fortunately, shingles in pregnancy is rare. And, for most women who develop shingles during pregnancy, the outlook is good.
(Click Pregnancy Complications for more information.). Shingles (also known as herpes zoster) and chickenpox (also known as varicella) are both caused by the varicella-zoster virus (VZV). If you develop a VZV infection during pregnancy, it may pose some risk to your unborn child. This, of course, depends on your stage of pregnancy. (This virus causes both shingles and chickenpox.) The treatment for shingles in adults generally includes antiviral drugs -- even for pregnant women, since many of these drugs appear to be safe during pregnancy. Many pregnant women are worried about developing an infection during their pregnancy -- and rightly so.