In bacteria, mRNA is translated into protein as soon as it is transcribed. Unlike eukaryotic cells, bacteria do not have a distinct nucleus that separates DNA from ribosomes, so there is no barrier to immediate translation. In contrast, bacteria, which have a comparatively streamlined genome, have no need to separate the processes of transcription and translation. In fact, several advantages may be provided by coupling these processes.
That such coupling is not an incidental consequence of the absence of a spatial barrier is underscored by the phenomenon of nonsense polarity in bacteria, first identified in the lac and trp operons of Escherichia coli nearly 40 years ago (;). Several co-transcriptional activities involving RNA as the substrate serve to prevent the occurrence of R-loops, and the coupling of transcription to translation in the bacteria may be seen as a special instance of such a co-transcriptional activity.
ANSWER: Coupling of transcription and translation means that ribosomes bind to the mRNA and protein synthesis (translation) begins while the mRNA is still being synthesized (transcription). A cartoon of coupled transcription and translatio is shown below: RNA polymerase moves along the DNA in a 5' to 3' direction, adding nucleotides to the 3'OH group of the growing RNA chain. The sigma-factor normally dissociates from the RNA polymerase core soon after transcription is properly initiated and chain elongation has begun.
Another advantage to coupled transcription and translation is that it provides a novel mechanism for gene regulation. Because transcription and translation occur simultaneously in bacteria, changes affecting one process automatically affect the other. This relationship can be exploited to provide a gene regulatory mechanism that is unique to prokaryotes. In contrast, bacteria, which have a comparatively streamlined genome, have no need to separate the processes of transcription and translation. In fact, several advantages may be provided by coupling these processes.
Active mechanisms exist to prevent transcription that is uncoupled from translation in the protein-coding genes of bacteria, as exemplified by the phenomenon of nonsense polarity. 
In other words, eukaryotic transcription and translation are spatially and temporally isolated. In contrast, bacteria, which have a comparatively streamlined genome, have no need to separate the processes of transcription and translation. In fact, several advantages may be provided by coupling these processes.
Active mechanisms exist to prevent transcription that is uncoupled from translation in the protein-coding genes of bacteria, as exemplified by the phenomenon of nonsense polarity. Several co-transcriptional activities involving RNA as the substrate serve to prevent the occurrence of R-loops, and the coupling of transcription to translation in the bacteria may be seen as a special instance of such a co-transcriptional activity.
Abstract. Mfd is a widely conserved bacterial protein that couples DNA repair with transcription. Mfd recognizes RNA polymerase stalled at a non-coding template site of DNA damage, disrupts the transcription complex to release the transcript and enzyme, and recruits the DNA excision repair machinery to the site. The putative eukaryotic transcription repair coupling factor CSB also stimulates elongation, advancing an RNA polymerase II complex by a nucleotide [31] , but, unlike Mfd, the eukaryotic protein does not release transcription complexes [32] .
Gene expression is the process by which information from a gene is used in the synthesis of a functional gene product. These products are often proteins, but in non-protein coding genes such as transfer RNA (tRNA) or small nuclear RNA (snRNA) genes, the product is a functional RNA. The production of RNA copies of the DNA is called transcription, and is performed in the nucleus by RNA polymerase, which adds one RNA nucleotide at a time to a growing RNA strand. This RNA is complementary to the template 3' → 5' DNA strand, which is itself complementary to the coding 5' → 3' DNA strand.
The common thinking is that transcription–translation coupling is a means for the cell to prevent accumulation of non-functional transcripts in the cytoplasm (;), and hence that it is functionally analogous to nonsense-mediated mRNA decay that occurs in eukaryotic cells (; ;). Several co-transcriptional activities involving RNA as the substrate serve to prevent the occurrence of R-loops, and the coupling of transcription to translation in the bacteria may be seen as a special instance of such a co-transcriptional activity.