The Library is responsible for several Archival Collections, which provide a rich source of information on Australia’s political, social and public health history. The Collections focus on prominent South Australians, including Bob Hawke, the first Prime Minister of Australia born in South Australia. 
Early years. Robert James Lee (Bob) Hawke was born on 9 December 1929 in Bordertown, South Australia. He was the younger of the two sons of Congregational minister Clem Hawke and Ellie (Lee) Hawke, a former teacher. In 1939, after Bob Hawke’s 18-year-old brother Neil died, the family moved to Perth, Western Australia and settled in the suburb of West Leederville. Hawke attended Perth Modern School, then the University of Western Australia. Hawke was president of the University’s Student Representative Council and graduated with a Law degree and an Arts degree in 1953. That year Albert Hawke, Bob Hawke’s uncle, became Western Australia’s Labor Premier.
Bob Hawke was born on December 9, 1929 in Bordertown, South Australia, Australia as Robert James Lee Hawke. He has been married to Blanche D'Alpuget since 1995. He was previously married to Hazel Hawke. See full bio ». 
Beginnings. Robert James Lee Hawke was born in Bordertown, South Australia, on 9 December 1929. He is the second of two sons of Clement Hawke, a Congregational minister, and Ellie Lee, a school teacher, both of Cornish ancestry. Under Bob Hawke, the Australian Labor Party won four elections in a row. During his first term in office, Hawke gained the highest popularity rating of any Prime Minister since the introduction of public opinion polls.
Hawke was born in Bordertown, South Australia, the second child of Clem Hawke, a Congregationalist minister, and his wife Edith (known as Ellie), a schoolteacher. He remains to date Labor's longest-serving Prime Minister, Australia's third-longest-serving Prime Minister, and is currently the oldest living former Prime Minister. To date, he is the only Australian Prime Minister to be born in South Australia.
Hawke and d'Alpuget married in 1995. Hazel had four children with Bob Hawke: Susan Pieters-Hawke (born 1957), Stephen (born 1959), Rosslyn (born 1960) and Robert Jr, who died in his infancy. 
Bob Hawke was born in a small South Australian town near the Victorian border. His father was a minister of religion and his uncle was ALP Premier of Western Australia from 1953 to 1959. Bob Hawke joined the ALP when he was 18. After completing degrees in both Law and Arts at the University of Western Australia, Hawke won a Rhodes Scholarship and went to Oxford University to continue his studies. In 1958 he took a job as a research officer with the Australian Council of Trade Unions (ACTU). The Bob Hawke Prime Ministerial Centre and the Bob Hawke Prime Ministerial Library were establsihed in his honour at the University of South Australia. He often gives public lectures, in which he shares his views on current issues, such as social inequality, economics, international relations and Australia’s future.
Robert James Lee (Bob) Hawke was born in Bordertown, South Australia on 9 December 1929, the son of a minister of religion and a former teacher. 