Lock Haven University of Pennsylvania, commonly abbreviated LHU, is a state university in Lock Haven, in central Pennsylvania, United States located along the Susquehanna River, and is roughly 30 miles (48 km) from the major towns of Williamsport and State College. Lock Haven University and its library began in 1870 as the Central State Normal School. All classrooms, dormitories, the dining room, the library, and the auxiliary rooms were housed in the original Sullivan Hall, located approximately where North Hall stands.
TOP. Lock Haven University, located in central Pennsylvania, is a member of Pennsylvania’s State System. LHU is an accredited four-year institution that offers 60 undergraduate and certificate programs, 40 minors, and seven graduate programs. 
Lock Haven University of Pennsylvania is located in downtown Lock Haven, along the Susquehanna River. Map of hotel and Lock Haven University. Free continental breakfast-Free Internet in room. Most Recent Guest Review. Room was clean, but one of the pillows was stained and didn't have a pillowcase on it. The bathroom was outdated, and the toilet seat was broken and unappealing.
_. Lock Haven University of Pennsylvania is a public institution that was founded in 1870. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 4,521, its setting is rural, and the campus size is 175 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Lock Haven University of Pennsylvania has a total undergraduate enrollment of 4,521, with a gender distribution of 43.8 percent male students and 56.2 percent female students. At this school, 36 percent of the students live in college-owned, -operated, or-affiliated housing and 64 percent of students live off campus.
Lock Haven University is one of the fourteen members of the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education. The main campus consists of 200 acres (81 ha), and the branch campus covers 12.9 acres (5.2 ha). Lock Haven University and its library began in 1870 as the Central State Normal School. All classrooms, dormitories, the dining room, the library, and the auxiliary rooms were housed in the original Sullivan Hall, located approximately where North Hall stands.
Location. 1  Lock Haven University is located on the West Branch of the Susquehanna River in the scenic mountains of central Pennsylvania, a few minutes off I-80 (exit 178). 2  The historic town of Lock Haven boasts a vital downtown with tree-lined streets and beautiful Victorian homes in a safe and quiet environment. From our humble beginnings with our first hundred students, to more than 4,000 students, Lock Haven University proudly offers 49 undergraduate programs and certificate programs with 47 minors. Master’s programs in education and health sciences are also available.
Summary. Lock Haven University of Pennsylvania is a public institution that was founded in 1870. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 4,521, its setting is rural, and the campus size is 175 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Lock Haven University of Pennsylvania has a total undergraduate enrollment of 4,521, with a gender distribution of 43.8 percent male students and 56.2 percent female students. At this school, 36 percent of the students live in college-owned, -operated, or-affiliated housing and 64 percent of students live off campus.
Located near the confluence of the West Branch Susquehanna River and Bald Eagle Creek, it is the principal city of the Lock Haven Micropolitan Statistical Area, itself part of the Williamsport –Lock Haven combined statistical area. Lock Haven's economy, from the city's founding in 1833 until the end of the 19th century, depended heavily on natural resources, particularly timber, and on cheap transportation to eastern markets. Loggers used the Susquehanna River and Bald Eagle Creek to float timber to sawmills in Lock Haven and nearby towns.
1 Lock Haven University is located on the West Branch of the Susquehanna River in the scenic mountains of central Pennsylvania, a few minutes off I-80 (exit 178). 2  The historic town of Lock Haven boasts a vital downtown with tree-lined streets and beautiful Victorian homes in a safe and quiet environment. From our humble beginnings with our first hundred students, to more than 4,000 students, Lock Haven University proudly offers 49 undergraduate programs and certificate programs with 47 minors. Master’s programs in education and health sciences are also available.
By 1927 it was known as the State Teacher's College in Lock Haven and in 1960 the name was changed to Lock Haven State College. In 1983, the school joined the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education and became known as Lock Haven University of Pennsylvania. The Clearfield campus in Clearfield, Pennsylvania was established in 1989. Lock Haven University and its library began in 1870 as the Central State Normal School. All classrooms, dormitories, the dining room, the library, and the auxiliary rooms were housed in the original Sullivan Hall, located approximately where North Hall stands.