Phenobarbital is a barbiturate medication that acts as an anticonvulsant. As an anticonvulsant, it is used to prevent recurrent seizures and treat epilepsy in dogs and cats. Phenobarbital acts by decreasing the activity in the brain cells (neurons) that cause the seizures to occur. When your dog or cat is first started on phenobarbital, you may notice that your pet is uncoordinated, unsteady on his feet or acts as though he is a bit intoxicated. This is a temporary effect and usually resolves as your dog or cat adjusts to the phenobarbital dosage.
Phenobarbital (PB), which is of the barbiturate family of drugs, is the most commonly prescribed antiepileptic drug (AED) for dogs. Because it is so commonly prescribed, its relative safety and efficacy (effectiveness) is well documented. 
Phenobarbital Phenobarbital is the most widely prescribed medication for treating seizures in dogs and is usually the first medication that is given to a dog with epilepsy. Phenobarbital is effective in 60 to 80 percent of dogs with idiopathic epilepsy if serum concentrations are kept within the target range.
Phenobarbital was discovered in 1912 and is the oldest still commonly used anti-seizure medication. It is a core medicine in the WHO Model List of Essential Medicines, the minimum medications needed for a basic health care system. It is the least expensive anti-seizure medication at around $5 USD a year. Phenobarbital is used in the treatment of all types of seizures except absence seizures. It is no less effective at seizure control than more recent drugs such as phenytoin and carbamazepine.
Phenobarbital is used to control epilepsy in your pet. It may be used alone or in conjuction with other drugs to reduce the number and severity of your pet’s seizures. 
Phenobarbital For Dogs. Phenobarbital is a barbiturate used to prevent seizures in epileptic dogs or to control status epilepticus (seizures lasting for 30 minutes or more). Because it is relatively cheap and is effective for the majority of dogs it’s a common choice of medicine. The drug can also be used for sedation or the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome. Phenobarbital vs. potassium bromide: When it comes to treating pets with seizures, the other typical go-to medicine is bromide.
Phenobarbital. Phenobarbital is one of the most popular anticonvulsant medications used in the veterinary field today. It is often prescribed to treat canines and felines that are suffering from seizures. It is most commonly used as a lone therapy, but in cases where the medication is not having the desired effect, it can be combined with other anticonvulsants like Zonisamide.
Phenobarbital for dogs is a medication that is recommended for canines with frequent seizures or idiopathic epilepsy. Phenobarbital is used in humans and has been created for humans. Phenobarbital is a medication that is used for dog seizures. The medication is also known as Pb or Phb. Dog seizures may be experienced due to epilepsy, poisoning, heat strokes or other severe health conditions.