The term hydride is used in a generic sense to indicate compounds of the type M x H y and not necessarily to indicate that any compounds listed behave chemically as hydrides. In compounds of arsenic (where known), the most common oxidation numbers of arsenic are: 5, 3, and -3. Arsenic: compounds information. This section lists some binary compounds with halogens (known as halides), oxygen (known as oxides), hydrogen (known as hydrides), and some other compounds of arsenic. For each compound, a formal oxidation number for arsenic is given, but the usefulness of this number is limited for p-block elements in particular. Based upon that oxidation number, an electronic configuration is also given but note that for more exotic compounds you should view this as a guide only
The most important compounds of arsenic are arsenic (III) oxide, As 2 O 3, (' white arsenic '), the yellow sulfide orpiment (As 2 S 3) and red realgar (As 4 S 4), Paris Green, calcium arsenate, and lead hydrogen arsenate. The latter three have been used as agricultural insecticides and poisons. The most common oxidation states for arsenic are -3 (arsenides: usually alloy-like intermetallic compounds), +3 (arsenates(III) or arsenites, and most organoarsenic compounds), and +5 (arsenates(V): the most stable inorganic arsenic oxycompounds).
The toxic properties of arsenic compounds made them useful as rat poison. However, they are seldom used for this purpose today. Safer compounds are used that do not present a threat to humans, pets, and the environment. Today, the most important use of arsenic is in the preservation of wood. It is used in the form of a compound called chromated copper arsenate (CCA). CCA accounts for about 90 percent of all the arsenic used in the United States. Occurrence in nature. Arsenic rarely occurs as a pure element. It is usually found as a compound. The most common ores of arsenic are arsenopyrite (FeAsS), orpiment (As 2 S 3), and realgar (As 4 S 4). These compounds are obtained as a by-product of the mining and purification of silver metal
The most common oxidation states for arsenic are: −3 in the arsenides, such as alloy-like intermetallic compounds; and +3 in the arsenites, arsenates(III), and most organoarsenic compounds. Arsenic also bonds readily to itself as seen in the square As 3− 4 ions in the mineral skutterudite. Arsenic and its compounds, especially the trioxide, are used in the production of pesticides, treated wood products, herbicides, and insecticides. These applications are declining, however. A few species of bacteria are able to use arsenic compounds as respiratory metabolites.
The most important use of arsenic is in the preservation of wood. Long term exposure to arsenic and its compounds can cause cancer. Inhalation can result in lung cancer. If swallowed, cancer is likely to develop in the bladder, kidneys, liver, and lungs. Occurrence in nature. Arsenic rarely occurs as a pure element. It is usually found as a compound. The most common ores of arsenic are arsenopyrite (FeAsS), orpiment (As 2 S 3), and realgar (As 4 S 4). These compounds are obtained as a by-product of the mining and purification of silver metal
Arsenic is a chemical element with symbol As and atomic number 33. Arsenic occurs in many minerals, usually in conjunction with sulfur and metals, and also as a pure elemental crystal. Arsenic is a metalloid. It can exist in various allotropes, although only the gray form has important use in industry. Arsenic and its compounds, especially the trioxide, are used in the production of pesticides, treated wood products, herbicides, and insecticides. These applications are declining, however. A few species of bacteria are able to use arsenic compounds as respiratory metabolites.
Formerly the most important use of arsenic compounds, was as an insecticide sprayed in fields and orchards. This use has entirely disappeared in most countries, due to the poisonous nature of arsenic compounds. Arsenic contamination is a problem in some well-water and may be associated with mine drainage. Type: element. Description: Arsenic (As) is classed as a semi-metal, or metalloid. In nature it is commonly found as a metal in low levels in most soils and in higher concentrations associated with some copper, lead and zinc ores. The most common arsenic mineral is arsenopyrite, a compound of iron, arsenic, and sulfur.
The main use of metallic arsenic is for strengthening alloys of copper and especially lead (for example, in car batteries). Arsenic is a common n-type dopant in semiconductor electronic devices, and the optoelectronic compound gallium arsenide is the most common semiconductor in use after doped silicon. Arsenic and its compounds, especially the trioxide, are used in the production of pesticides, treated wood products, herbicides, and insecticides. These applications are declining, however. A few species of bacteria are able to use arsenic compounds as respiratory metabolites.