Whatever is causing the swollen liver is the same as what's causing the underlying disease. That may include alcohol abuse (one of the most common causes of liver disease), obesity, viral infections, side effects of certain medications, or hereditary conditions.
If your doctor tells you that you've got an enlarged liver, it means it's swollen beyond its normal size. There's usually another condition that's causing it, such as hepatitis. You have a lot of treatment choices, but you first need to find out the source of the problem.
Tweet. Swollen liver, also known as enlarged liver or heptomegaly, is a symptom of liver disease in which the liver swells to a size larger than normal. This can be a symptom of several different disorders of the liver.
Damage to the liver from alcohol, toxins, and certain drugs can also result in inflammation. Some inherited diseases can cause inflammation and hepatitis, along with prolonged obstruction of bile flow.
Seek immediate medical care (call 911) for serious symptoms associated with complications of liver inflammation, such as confusion, hallucinations, extreme fatigue, fainting, fever (especially if combined with a swollen abdomen), vomiting blood, or severe mood changes (especially agitation).
An enlarged liver may occur as a result of one or more of these causes. Inflammation or fatty liver may cause an enlarged liver and may result from: 1  An infection such as a from a virus or abscess. 2  Certain medications. 3  Toxins. 4  Certain types of hepatitis, including alcoholic hepatitis.
In this article. If your doctor tells you that you've got an enlarged liver, it means it's swollen beyond its normal size. There's usually another condition that's causing it, such as hepatitis. You have a lot of treatment choices, but you first need to find out the source of the problem. Getting treated is important.
Many different liver diseases can produce swollen liver as a symptom. These include fatty liver disease (a disorder characterized by the presence of fatty globules in the liver) and liver fibrosis, up to and including extremely serious diseases such as cirrhosis of the liver, infectious hepatitis, or liver cancer.
The liver is the largest organ in the body. It is responsible for the removal of toxins, processing cholesterol into sugar, the creation of bile for digestion and many other functions. There are several factors that can cause swelling in the liver. Some of those causes are cirrhosis, infections and disease.