Vitamin and mineral supplements can help prevent deficiencies that can contribute to chronic conditions. Numerous studies have shown the health benefits and effectiveness of supplementing missing nutrients in the diet. It is always better to get your nutrients from food, agrees registered dietitian Karen Ansel. Food contains thousands of phytochemicals, fiber, and more that work together to promote good health that cannot be duplicated with a pill or a cocktail of supplements..
The most common vitamins and minerals found to be of concern in athletes' diets are calcium and vitamin D, the B vitamins, iron, zinc, magnesium, as well as some antioxidants such as vitamins C and E, β-carotene, and selenium. Low intakes of these minerals are often due to energy restriction or avoidance of animal products. Calcium. Calcium is especially important for growth, maintenance and repair of bone tissue, maintenance of blood calcium levels, regulation of muscle contraction, nerve conduction, and normal blood clotting.
The. Office of Dietary Supplements has a series of Vitamin and Mineral Fact Sheets that provide scientifically-based overviews of a number of vitamins and minerals. They can provide a good basis for a discussion with your doctor about whether or not you should take a vitamin/mineral supplement. Yes, you and your doctor should work together to determine if a vitamin/mineral supplement is right for you. If you are already taking dietary supplements, you should inform your doctor. Research shows that many people do not let their doctors know that they are taking a dietary supplement or are considering taking one.
Recovery and repair of tissues require a host of vitamins and minerals that participate in synthesis of new cells... Here is a list of those that have been shown to help. Read on to learn more... Recovery and repair of tissues require a host of vitamins and minerals that participate in synthesis of new cells and tissue. For example, certain vitamins and minerals are required to facilitate the formation of endogenous anti-inflammatory compounds, including: 1  Vitamin B6. 2  Vitamin E. 3  Vitamin C. 4  Niacin. 5  Zinc. 6  Selenium. And both of these vitamins are also helpful in reducing muscle soreness secondary to exercise. Clinical studies report that supplementing with vitamin E and C reduces post-exercise inflammation and pain in muscles and joints.
While diet is the key to getting the best vitamins and minerals, supplements can help. For instance, if you’re doing your best to eat healthy foods but still are deficient in some areas, supplements can help. The key is to ensure they’re taken in addition to healthy diet choices and nutrient-dense foods. But before you start buying everything from Vitamin A to Zinc, remember there’s only one way to be sure you’re getting the vitamins and minerals your body needs: Eat healthy foods. Supplements can be beneficial, but the key to vitamin and mineral success is eating a balanced diet. Before taking vitamin and mineral supplements, talk to your physician about your personal dietary plan
Experts say there is definitely a place for vitamin or mineral supplements in our diets, but their primary function is to fill in small nutrient gaps. They are  supplements  intended to add to your diet, not take the place of real food or a healthy meal plan. It is always better to get your nutrients from food, agrees registered dietitian Karen Ansel. Food contains thousands of phytochemicals, fiber, and more that work together to promote good health that cannot be duplicated with a pill or a cocktail of supplements..
What you need, and how to get it. by Amanda Gardner. Vitamins and minerals are essential to any diet, and research suggests they may help prevent cancer and heart disease, not to mention other health problems. But reality check: Many studies have been conducted on vitamin-containing food, but not necessarily supplements. 
It is important to note that vitamin/mineral supplements are not a replacement for a healthful diet. Remember that in addition to vitamins and minerals, foods also contain hundreds of naturally occurring substances that can help protect your health. Yes, you and your doctor should work together to determine if a vitamin/mineral supplement is right for you. If you are already taking dietary supplements, you should inform your doctor. Research shows that many people do not let their doctors know that they are taking a dietary supplement or are considering taking one.
When the food on the plate falls short and doesn’t include essential nutrients like calcium, potassium, vitamin D, and vitamin B12, some of the nutrients many Americans don’t get enough of, a supplement can help take up the nutritional slack. It is always better to get your nutrients from food, agrees registered dietitian Karen Ansel. Food contains thousands of phytochemicals, fiber, and more that work together to promote good health that cannot be duplicated with a pill or a cocktail of supplements..