Lemurs live in trees which is why they are called arboreal. There are some large species of Lemurs though that also spend time on the ground. Some Lemurs live in the rainforests. Others live in very hot and dry areas. Overgrown forests seem to be the location though where the highest number of Lemurs are found. During the rain season there is more food in those areas.
Distribution and Habitat. Ring-tailed lemurs are found in the southwest portion of Madagascar. They live in arid, open areas and forests. Ring-tailed lemurs live in territories that range from 15 to 57 acres (0.06 to 0.2 km 2) in size. 
The gray mouse lemur has a reproductive lifespan of five years, although captive individuals have been reported to live up to 15 years. Although threatened by deforestation, habitat degradation, and live capture for the pet trade, it is considered one of Madagascar's most abundant small native mammals. The gray mouse lemur tends to prefer lower levels of the forest and the understory, where branches and vegetation are dense. In secondary forest, it is generally observed from ground level up to 10 m (33 ft) above ground, yet 15 to 30 m (50 to 100 ft) in the canopy of primary forest.
The gray mouse lemur (Microcebus murinus), or lesser mouse lemur, is a small lemur, a type of strepsirrhine primate, found only on the island of Madagascar. Weighing 58 to 67 grams (2.0 to 2.4 oz), it is the largest of the mouse lemurs (genus Microcebus), a group that includes the smallest primates in the world. The gray mouse lemur tends to prefer lower levels of the forest and the understory, where branches and vegetation are dense. In secondary forest, it is generally observed from ground level up to 10 m (33 ft) above ground, yet 15 to 30 m (50 to 100 ft) in the canopy of primary forest.
There are eight species of mouse lemurs, and several have been identified only in the past few years. This is a rarity in primate research, and illustrates just how much remains to be known about these fascinating animals. Like all lemurs, mouse lemurs inhabit the island of Madagascar off the east coast of Africa. The pygmy mouse lemur is the smallest primate in the world. Its head and body are less than two and a half inches (six centimeters) long, though its tail is a bit more than twice that length. 
The species is named for its mouse-like size and coloration and is known locally (in Malagasy) as tsidy, koitsiky, titilivaha, pondiky, and vakiandry. The gray mouse lemur and all other mouse lemurs are considered cryptic species, as they are nearly indistinguishable from each other by appearance. The gray mouse lemur tends to prefer lower levels of the forest and the understory, where branches and vegetation are dense. In secondary forest, it is generally observed from ground level up to 10 m (33 ft) above ground, yet 15 to 30 m (50 to 100 ft) in the canopy of primary forest.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. (Redirected from Madame Berthe's Mouse Lemur). Madame Berthe's mouse lemur (Microcebus berthae) or Berthe's mouse lemur is the smallest of the mouse lemurs and the smallest primate in the world; the average body length is 9.2 cm (3.6 in) and seasonal weight is around 30 g (1.1 oz). 
Their tail is not prehensile and varies in length, depending on the species. Lemurs range greatly in size from the pygmy mouse lemur to the indri. Lemurs have bright round eyes and soft fur that varies in color, depending on the species. The most common lemur colors are white, gray, black, brown, and red-brown. In some species, males and females have different coloring.
The gray mouse lemur is one of the smallest primates in the world, yet it is also the largest mouse lemur. Its total length is 25 to 28 cm (9.8 to 11.0 in), with a head-body length of 12 to 14 cm (4.7 to 5.5 in) and a tail length of 13 to 14.5 cm (5.1 to 5.7 in). The gray mouse lemur tends to prefer lower levels of the forest and the understory, where branches and vegetation are dense. In secondary forest, it is generally observed from ground level up to 10 m (33 ft) above ground, yet 15 to 30 m (50 to 100 ft) in the canopy of primary forest.
Lemur Habitat and Distribution. Lemurs live in trees which is why they are called arboreal. There are some large species of Lemurs though that also spend time on the ground. They are only found on the Comoro Islands and Madagascar Islands. This is off of the Southeast coast of Africa. Some Lemurs live in the rainforests. Others live in very hot and dry areas. Overgrown forests seem to be the location though where the highest number of Lemurs are found. During the rain season there is more food in those areas.