2. Modes of Sediment Transport The sediment load of a river is transported in various ways although these distinctions are to some extent arbitrary and not always very practical in the sense that not all of the components can be separated in practice: 1. Dissolved load 2. Suspended load 3.
Sediment transport is the movement of organic and inorganic particles by water 10. In general, the greater the flow, the more sediment that will be conveyed. Water flow can be strong enough to suspend particles in the water column as they move downstream, or simply push them along the bottom of a waterway 11.
Sediment transport due to fluid motion occurs in rivers, oceans, lakes, seas, and other bodies of water due to currents and tides. Transport is also caused by glaciers as they flow, and on terrestrial surfaces under the influence of wind.
When sediment is transported and deposited, it leaves clues to the mode of transport and deposition. For example, if the mode of transport is by sliding down a slope, the deposits that result are generally chaotic in nature, and show a wide variety of particle sizes.
Water flow, also called water discharge, is the single most important element of sediment transport. The flow of water is responsible for picking up, moving and depositing sediment in a waterway 26. Without flow, sediment might remain suspended or settle out – but it will not move downstream.
Whether sediment will be eroded, transported or deposited is depended on the particle size and the flow rate of the water. Flow (ft 3 /s) =Area (ft 2) * Velocity (ft/s). OR Flow (ft 3 /s) =Volume (ft 3)/ Time (s). The equations describing the relationship of water flow and sediment transport are a bit more complex.
Knowledge of sediment transport is most often used to determine whether erosion or deposition will occur, the magnitude of this erosion or deposition, and the time and distance over which it will occur.
Sediment refers to the conglomerate of materials, organic and inorganic, that can be carried away by water, wind or ice 3. While the term is often used to indicate soil-based, mineral matter (e.g. clay, silt and sand), decomposing organic substances and inorganic biogenic material are also considered sediment 1.