Heart failure is a chronic (ongoing) condition that develops over time. It is usually caused by underlying conditions, such as high blood pressure or heart disease. These conditions damage your heart, making the heart muscle stiff or thick. Heart failure doesn't mean your heart has failed or stopped beating. It means that your heart, which is a muscle that pumps blood to all parts of your body, is not working as well as it should and can't pump as much blood as your body needs.
Download this fact sheet [PDF–464K]. Heart failure happens when the heart cannot pump enough blood and oxygen to support other organs in your body. Heart failure is a serious condition, but it does not mean that the heart has stopped beating. 
Angina, a symptom of coronary artery disease, is chest pain or discomfort that occurs when the heart muscle is not getting enough blood. Angina may feel like pressure or a squeezing pain in the chest. The pain also may occur in the shoulders, arms, neck, jaw, or back. It may feel like indigestion. Angina may feel like pressure or a squeezing pain in the chest. Coronary artery disease is the most common type of heart disease, but there are many other conditions that affect the heart. Acute coronary syndrome is a term that includes heart attack and unstable angina.
Although heart failure is a serious condition that progressively gets worse over time, certain cases can be reversed with treatment. Even when the heart muscle is impaired, there are a number of treatments that can relieve symptoms and stop or slow the gradual worsening of the condition. 
Heart failure is a condition in which the heart does not pump enough blood to meet the needs of the body’s tissues. Heart failure can develop slowly over time as the result of other conditions (such as high blood pressure and coronary artery disease) that weaken the heart. Heart failure is a condition in which the heart does not pump enough blood to meet the needs of the body’s tissues. To understand what occurs in heart failure, it helps to be familiar with the anatomy of the heart and how it works.
Heart failure is a serious condition that occurs when the heart can't pump enough blood to meet the body's needs. It does not mean that the heart has stopped but that muscle is too weak to pump enough blood. The majority of heart failure cases are chronic, or long-term heart failures. Angina may feel like pressure or a squeezing pain in the chest. Coronary artery disease is the most common type of heart disease, but there are many other conditions that affect the heart. Acute coronary syndrome is a term that includes heart attack and unstable angina.
Heart failure is a condition in which the heart can't pump enough blood to meet the body's needs. In some cases, the heart can't fill with enough blood. In other cases, the heart can't pump blood to the rest of the body with enough force. Some people have both problems. The term heart failure doesn't mean that your heart has stopped or is about to stop working. However, heart failure is a serious condition that requires medical care. The condition can affect the right side of the heart only, or it can affect both sides of the heart. Most cases involve both sides of the heart. Right-side heart failure occurs if the heart can't pump enough blood to the lungs to pick up oxygen.
Heart Failure. Heart failure is a condition in which your heart can't pump enough blood to meet your body's needs. The term “heart failure” doesn't mean that your heart has stopped or is about to stop working. However, heart failure is a serious condition that requires medical care. 
Left-side heart failure occurs if the heart can't pump enough oxygen-rich blood to the rest of the body. Right-side heart failure may cause fluid to build up in the feet, ankles, legs, liver, abdomen, and the veins in the neck. The condition can affect the right side of the heart only, or it can affect both sides of the heart. Most cases involve both sides of the heart. Right-side heart failure occurs if the heart can't pump enough blood to the lungs to pick up oxygen.