People with ulcerative colitis are at increased risk for malnutrition. The condition is also associated with other health problems, including arthritis, eye infections, liver disease, skin rashes, blood clots, or gallstones. Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) that causes ongoing inflammation and ulcers (open sores) in the innermost layers of the large intestine (colon) and rectum. The ulcers bleed and produce pus and mucus, and the inflammation causes the colon to empty frequently, causing diarrhea.
Colazal (balsalazide) is used to treat active ulcerative colitis. It is an anti-inflammatory drug. This medication is available in generic form. Common side effects include headache, nausea, vomiting, joint pain, abdominal pain, trouble sleeping, or loss of appetite. It is not known if this medication passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding. Our Colazal (balsalazide) Side Effects Drug Center provides a comprehensive view of available drug information on the potential side effects when taking this medication. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects
Introduction. Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) that causes ongoing inflammation and ulcers (open sores) in the innermost layers of the large intestine (colon) and rectum. The ulcers bleed and produce pus and mucus, and the inflammation causes the colon to empty frequently, causing diarrhea.
Mesalamine is used to treat ulcerative colitis, proctitis, and proctosigmoiditis. Mesalamine is also used to prevent the symptoms of ulcerative colitis from recurring. Mesalamine may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Mesalamine affects a substance in the body that causes inflammation, tissue damage, and diarrhea. Mesalamine rectal is used to treat ulcerative colitis, proctitis, and proctosigmoiditis. Mesalamine is used to treat ulcerative colitis, proctitis, and proctosigmoiditis. Stop using mesalamine and call your doctor at once if you have severe stomach pain, cramping, fever, headache, and bloody diarrhea. Do not take mesalamine rectal by mouth.
BALSALAZIDE CAPSULE-ORAL. BALSALAZIDE TABLET-ORAL. The medication you searched for has more than one listing. Multiple listings, which are compiled by generic name indicate a drug is available in more than one dose or in different forms, such as tablets, liquid or injection. Each listing is specific to each dose and form of medication so it is important that you select the correct version
Azathioprine is the generic form of the brand name drug Imuran, which is used along with other medicines to prevent organ rejection after a kidney transplant. The drug is also used to treat severe rheumatoid arthritis, ulcerative colitis, and Crohn's disease. Azathioprine is in class of drugs known as immunosuppressants. It works by altering the activity of the body's immune system so it won't attack a transplanted organ or joint. 
Stop using balsalazide and call your doctor at once if you have any of these serious side effects: 1  worsening colitis symptoms, such as fever, stomach pain, cramps, or bloody diarrhea; 2  bleeding from your rectum; or. 3  pale skin, easy bruising, weakness. It is not known if this medication passes into breast milk. Consult your doctor before breast-feeding. Our Colazal (balsalazide) Side Effects Drug Center provides a comprehensive view of available drug information on the potential side effects when taking this medication. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effect
1 Certain medications are contraindicated when taking mercaptopurine. 2  Medications used to treat ulcerative colitis (olsalazine, mesalamine, sulfasalazine) interfere with how mercaptopurine works and may increase the toxicities experienced. 3  If you are being treated for ulcerative colitis discuss this risk with your doctor. 1 If you are on warfarin (Coumadin) as a blood-thinner, adjustments may need to be made to your dose based on blood work. 2  Allopurinol (Zyloprim) a medication used to treat gout (high uric acid levels) may increase the toxicity seen with
Now I am still having some bleeding. I skipped my blood thinner for 3 days last week and those were 3 days with no bleeding! Started back on thinner and back comes the bleeding. So my dilemma is to discontinue the thinner and risk more blood clots and a stroke or continue the thinner and risk loosing my Colon. I had to get off blood thinners due to bleeding out. They can put a filter in your main veins to prevent the danger of clots moving to your brain & lungs, you may want to consider that. The need to be on blood thinners while in a flare is quite a conundrum for doctors and especially we the patients... Imuran.