Chemistry 121 Prof. Mines Notes on Polarity of Molecules (and H-bond definition) I. Molecular Polarity A. Meaning: A molecular substance is said to “be polar ” if its molecules are polar This means that each molecule has a partially positive side and a partially negative side. 
Polarity in a molecule can refer to its electric charge either positive or negative. Polarity is a physical property of a compound or substance which relates to other physical properties like melting point, boiling point, solubility and intermolecular interactions between molecules. T he polarity of the molecule is the sum total of all the polar bonds in the molecule. A molecule has one or more chemical bonds between orbital of different atoms.
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Polar Molecule Definition: A polar molecule is a molecule containing polar bonds where the sum of all the bond's dipole moments is not zero. Examples: Water is a polar molecule. Carbon dioxide is made up of polar bonds, but the dipole moments cancel each other out and therefore is not a polar molecule.
Definition. Molecules consist of atoms that are made up of electrons, protons, and neutrons. The electrons are usually distributed equally throughout the molecule's outer shell-called the orbit. However, when the electrons do not have an equal distribution of electrons in the orbit you have a polar molecule. The electronegativity of the atoms in the molecule can help determine the polarity. The shape of the structure of a molecule can also help determine polarity. V-shaped or pyramid-shaped molecules are usually polar; water is V-shaped in structure and is polar.
Polar molecule. Definition. noun, plural: polar molecules. A molecule with a net dipole as a result of the opposing charges (i.e. having partial positive and partial negative charges) from polar bonds arranged asymmetrically. Supplement. Molecules can either be polar or nonpolar depending on the arrangement of bonds producing a net dipole.
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Polar Bond Definition: A polar bond is a covalent bond between two atoms where the electrons forming the bond are unequally distributed. This causes the molecule to have a slight electrical dipole moment where one end is slightly positive and the other is slightly negative. Polar bonds are the dividing line between pure covalent bonding and pure ionic bonding. Examples: Water is a polar bonded molecule.
Water is a polar molecule because of the way the atoms bind in the molecule such that there are excess electrons on the Oxygen side and a lack or excess of positive charges on the Hydrogen side of the molecule. Water is a polar molecule with positive charges. on one side and negative on the other. If this is the case, the molecule is called a polar molecule, meaning that it has electrical poles. Otherwise, it is called a non-polar molecule. Whether molecules are polar or non-polar determines if they will mix to form a solution or that they don't mix well together.
Molecules can be grouped as polar or non-polar molecules. Some molecules are in between the two. The arrangement or geometry of the atoms in some molecules is such that one end of the molecule has a positive electrical charge and the other side has a negative charge. If this is the case, the molecule is called a polar molecule, meaning that it has electrical poles. Otherwise, it is called a non-polar molecule. Whether molecules are polar or non-polar determines if they will mix to form a solution or that they don't mix well together.