Gestational diabetes is a type of diabetes that some women develop when they are pregnant. If you have gestational diabetes, your blood sugar (glucose) levels are higher than normal. It can lead to problems for you and your baby if the diabetes is uncontrolled. However, there are many treatment options that can help control the condition during your pregnancy and reduce the risks to you and your baby.
Symptoms. Women with gestational diabetes usually have no symptoms or mild, non-life-threatening symptoms, according to the NIH. These symptoms are mostly related to abnormal blood sugar levels, and can include fatigue, excessive thirst and increased urination. View full size image. Gestational diabetes is a type of diabetes that develops, or is first diagnosed, during pregnancy. The condition, like other forms of diabetes, involves high blood sugar levels. Often times, gestational diabetes is a temporary disorder that occurs around the second trimester of pregnancy, and disappears after a woman gives birth
Gestational diabetes is diabetes, or high blood sugar levels, that develops during pregnancy. It occurs in about 4% of all pregnancies. It is usually diagnosed in the later stages of pregnancy and often occurs in women who have never had diabetes. 
Gestational diabetes generally has few symptoms and it is most commonly diagnosed by screening during pregnancy. Diagnostic tests detect inappropriately high levels of glucose in blood samples. Gestational diabetes affects 3-10% of pregnancies, depending on the population studied. As with diabetes mellitus in pregnancy in general, babies born to mothers with untreated gestational diabetes are typically at increased risk of problems such as being large for gestational age (which may lead to delivery complications), low blood sugar, and jaundice.
Gestational diabetes happens when you have too much sugar (glucose) in your blood during pregnancy. Your blood sugar levels can go up when your body isn't producing enough of a hormone called insulin. Insulin helps: While you're expecting, your body has to make extra insulin, especially from mid-pregnancy onwards. 
It is important for you to be tested for gestational diabetes, because high blood sugar can cause problems for both you and your baby. Sometimes, a pregnant woman has been living with diabetes without knowing it. If you have symptoms from diabetes, they may include: 1  Increased thirst. 2  Increased urination. 3  Increased hunger. 4  Blurred vision.
Gestational diabetes is diagnosed with blood tests. Most pregnant women are tested between the 24th and 28th weeks of pregnancy, but if you have risk factors, your doctor may decide to test earlier in the pregnancy. Blood testing confirms the diagnosis. If diabetes is present in early pregnancy, there is an increased risk of birth defects and miscarriage compared to that of mothers without diabetes. Women with gestational diabetes have a higher chance of needing a Cesarean birth (C-section) due to the large sizes of their babies.
Gestational diabetes is a temporary (in most cases) form of diabetes in which the body does not produce adequate amounts of insulin to regulate sugar during pregnancy. It may also be called glucose intolerance or carbohydrate intolerance. Signs and symptoms can include: 1  Sugar in urine (revealed in a test done in your doctor’s office). 2  Unusual thirst. 3  Frequent urination. 4  Fatigue. 5  Nausea. 6  Frequent vaginal, bladder, and skin infections. 7  Blurred vision
Because gestational diabetes does not cause symptoms, you need to be tested for the condition. This is usually done between the 24th and 28th weeks of pregnancy. You may be surprised if your test shows a high blood sugar level. If you have symptoms from diabetes, they may include: 1  Increased thirst. 2  Increased urination. 3  Increased hunger. 4  Blurred vision.