According to Foodsafety.gov, uncooked poultry is safe in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, and safe in the freezer for 9 months (for pieces) and up to 12 months for whole chickens or turkey. Cooked poultry is safe refrigerated for 3-4 days.
If you buy a fully cooked rotisserie chicken, make sure it is hot at the time of purchase. If you want to eat it later, cut it into pieces, refrigerate it in a shallow container and use it within three to four days. You can eat it cold or reheat it to an internal temperature of 165 degrees Fahrenheit.
Eating leftovers saves time and money, but food spoils if you leave it in the refrigerator too long. In general, refrigerated chicken leftovers are safe to eat for three to four days. However, proper storage and handling of leftover food is necessary to prevent dangerous bacterial growth.
1 Eat it or refrigerate it within two hours, or within an hour on particularly hot days. 2  If you do choose to refrigerate the rotisserie chicken, remove the meat and store it in a shallow container or a plate so it can cool quickly.
SS. Dear SS: According to Foodsafety.gov, uncooked poultry is safe in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, and safe in the freezer for 9 months (for pieces) and up to 12 months for whole chickens or turkey. Cooked poultry is safe refrigerated for 3-4 days.
The USDA notes that if the product comes with a sell by date, you can generally keep raw meat and eggs in the fridge past that date by using the following guidelines: 1  Chicken, turkey, sausage, ground poultry, and ground meat: 1 to 2 days past sell-by date. 2  Beef, lamb, pork, and veal: 3 to 5
How to Marinate Chicken in the Refrigerator. You can marinate your poultry for up to two days in the refrigerator. If you are going to baste the bird with the marinade as it cooks, boil the marinade first, to avoid cross-contamination.
The amount of time you can leave food in the fridge depends on the food -- and the food's expiration date. Some foods can be left in the fridge a long time and still be safe to eat.