Many other diatomic molecules consist of two elements. In fact, most elements form diatomic molecules, particularly at higher temperatures. Past a certain temperature, however, all molecules break into their constituent atoms. The noble gases do not form diatomic molecules. Diatomic molecules consisting of two different elements are called heteronuclear molecules.
A diatomic element is a molecule of an element consisting of two atoms. It is a form of homonuclear diatomic molcule. There are only 7 diatomic elements in total and only 5 diatomic elements at standard temperature and pressure (STP). Bromine. The diatomic elements are the – ine halogens (fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine) and elements with a – gen ending (hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen). Astatine is another halogen, but its behavior is not known.
Homonuclear Diatomic Molecules. There are seven elements that occur naturally as homonuclear diatomic molecules. All of these molecules are in the gaseous state. Five of these elements-hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, fluorine, and chlorine-occur as diatomic elements at room temperature, which is 25 degrees Celsius. There are seven elements that naturally occur as homonuclear diatomic molecules in their gaseous states: hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, fluorine, chlorine, bromine, and iodine. Bromine and iodine need slightly higher temperatures than room temperature to occur as gaseous
polyatomic element. A number of elements are found in their elemental form as diatomic molecules. In these molecules, two atoms are joined by one or more covalent bonds, forming a molecule with the general formula X 2. Lr. Key: diatomic element polyatomic element A number of elements are found in their elemental form as diatomic molecules. In these molecules, two atoms are joined by one or more covalent bonds, forming a molecule with the general formula X2.
The only chemical elements that form stable homonuclear diatomic molecules at standard temperature and pressure (STP) (or typical laboratory conditions of 1 bar and 25 °C) are the gases hydrogen (H 2), nitrogen (N 2), oxygen (O 2), fluorine (F 2), and chlorine (Cl 2). Diatomic molecules are molecules composed of only two atoms, of either the same or different chemical elements. The prefix di-is of Greek origin, meaning two. If a diatomic molecule consists of two atoms of the same element, such as hydrogen (H 2) or oxygen (O 2), then it is said to be homonuclear. Otherwise, if a diatomic molecule consists of two different atoms, such as carbon monoxide (CO) or nitric oxide (NO), the molecule is said to be heteronuclear
Diatomic Element. Diatomic elements are chemical elements whose stable form at STP consists of diatomic molecules. The diatomic elements are H 2, N 2, O 2, F 2, Cl 2, Br 2, and I 2. Dimer.
The seven diatomic molecules, N2, O2, F2, Cl2, H2, Br2, & I2 all form with two atoms of themselves. these elements all bond in a way with themselves so that both atoms have a … full outer shell. 1 person found this useful. 1  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements. 
Diatomic molecules are molecules made of two atoms chemically bonded together. The atoms can be of the same element (homonuclear molecules), or of different elements (heteronuclear molecules). Familiar examples of diatomic molecules of elements are the five gaseous state diatomic elements: Cl 2, F 2 H 2, N 2 ,and O 2.