Because these somatic cells do not regularly use telomerase, they age. The result of aging cells is an aging body. If telomerase is activated in a cell, the cell will continue to grow and divide. This immortal cell theory is important in two areas of research: aging and cancer. Cellular aging, or senescence, is the process by which a cell becomes old and dies. It is due to the shortening of chromosomal telomeres to the point that the chromosome reaches a critical length. Cellular aging is analogous to a wind up clock. If the clock stays wound, a cell becomes immortal and constantly produces new cells. If the clock winds down, the cell stops producing new cells and dies.
1 However, because the ends are protected by telomeres, the only part of the chromosome that is lost, is the telomere, and the DNA is left undamaged. 2  Without telomeres, important DNA would be lost every time a cell divides (usually about 50 to 70 times). 1 Telomerase is an enzyme that adds the TTAGGG telomere sequence to the ends of chromosomes. 2  Telomerase is only found in very low concentrations in our somatic cells. 3  Because these cells do not regularly use telomerase they age leading to a reduction in normal function. 4  The result of ageing cells, is an ageing body
Telomerase is a large multisubunit RNP. Telomerase is a reverse transcriptase that adds telomere repeats to chromosome ends. The minimal catalytic core is composed of TERT, the telomerase reverse transcriptase, and TERC, the telomerase RNA, which acts as the template for telomere addition. Telomeres protect chromosome ends. Telomeres are TTAGGG double-stranded DNA repeats culminating in a single-stranded overhang. The shelterin protein complex protects telomeres, facilitates replication and controls access of telomerase.
Noun. 1. telomerase-an enzyme in eukaryotic cells that can add telomeres to the ends of chromosomes after they divide. enzyme-any of several complex proteins that are produced by cells and act as catalysts in specific biochemical reactions. 
They consist of the same short DNA sequence repeated over and over again. 1  Telomeres are sections of DNA found at the ends of each of our chromosomes. 2  They consist of the same sequence of bases repeated over and over. 3  In humans the telomere sequence is TTAGGG. 1 Telomerase is an enzyme that adds the TTAGGG telomere sequence to the ends of chromosomes. 2  Telomerase is only found in very low concentrations in our somatic cells. 3  Because these cells do not regularly use telomerase they age leading to a reduction in normal function. 4  The result of ageing cells, is an ageing body
Telomeres are caps at the ends of chromosomes that protect your genes from being eroded each time a cell divides. Specifically they are repeating bases and proteins at the tips of chromosomes. As the length of a cell increases, its volume increases faster than its surface area. The resulting decrease in the cell's ratio of surface area to volume makes it more difficult for the cell to move needed materials in and waste products out.
Telomeres are the caps at the end of each strand of DNA that protect our chromosomes, like the plastic tips at the end of shoelaces. Without the coating, shoelaces become frayed until they can no longer do their job, just as without telomeres, DNA strands become damaged and our cells can’t do their job. Telomeres protect the vital information in our DNA. DNA makes up all of the cells in our body. It is the genetic material that makes us who we are. And every organ in our body (skin, liver, heart, etc.) is made up of cells. So, telomeres are vital to our health. Our cells replenish by copying themselves. 
1 Every time a cell carries out DNA replication the chromosomes are shortened by about 25-200 bases (A, C, G, or T) per replication. 2  However, because the ends are protected by telomeres, the only part of the chromosome that is lost, is the telomere, and the DNA is left undamaged. 1 Telomerase is an enzyme that adds the TTAGGG telomere sequence to the ends of chromosomes. 2  Telomerase is only found in very low concentrations in our somatic cells. 3  Because these cells do not regularly use telomerase they age leading to a reduction in normal function. 4  The result of ageing cells, is an ageing body
Telomerase replaces short bits of DNA known as telomeres, which are otherwise shortened when a cell divides via mitosis. In normal circumstances, absent telomerase, if a cell divides recursively, at some point the progeny reach their Hayflick limit, which is believed to be between 50–70 cell divisions. Telomerase is a reverse transcriptase enzyme that carries its own RNA molecule (with the pattern of  C C C A A U C C C  in vertebrates), which is used as a template when it elongates telomeres.