1 Balloon angioplasty. 2  During this procedure, a specially designed catheter with a small balloon tip is guided to the point of narrowing in the artery. 3  Once in place, the balloon is inflated to compress plaque against the artery wall and stretch the artery open to increase blood flow to the heart. 4  Stent. For certain people, heart disease treatment can be achieved without surgery. Angioplasty is a non-surgical procedure that can be used to open blocked heart arteries. Stent placement is another option that can be done during
Olinger and Bonchek (31) found improved left ventricular performance immediately after coronary artery bypass surgery when a vent was used. Methods. During coronary artery surgery, either no venting or venting via the cardioplegia cannula in the aortic root (32,33) is commonly practiced (Table 6.1, Fig. One definite advantage of a pulmonary artery catheter is that it can provide an indication of left atrial hypertension that accompanies left heart distension. It may be somewhat late in rising if the cause of left heart distension is aortic regurgitation and it is rendered invalid by a pulmonary artery vent.
Pulmonary artery vent return during cardiopulmonary bypass in 10 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass averaged 12.5 L. The effectiveness of left ventricular decompression was evaluated in 20 patients also undergoing bypass grafting. Data relating to the hemodynamic efficaciousness and mechanism of action of a pulmonary artery catheter or vent used for left ventricular venting during cardiac operations are presented.
They include: 1  Balloon angioplasty. 2  During this procedure, a specially designed catheter with a small balloon tip is guided to the point of narrowing in the artery. 3  Once in place, the balloon is inflated to compress plaque against the artery wall and stretch the artery open to increase blood flow to the heart. 4  Stent. For certain people, heart disease treatment can be achieved without surgery. Angioplasty is a non-surgical procedure that can be used to open blocked heart arteries. Stent placement is another option that can be done during
The pulmonary artery vent is a plastic sump catheter that is introduced into the main pulmonary artery through a purse-string suture and connected via a roller pump to the venous reservoir of the heart-lung perfusion machine. Placement and removal require only a few minutes. Data relating to the hemodynamic efficaciousness and mechanism of action of a pulmonary artery catheter or vent used for left ventricular venting during cardiac operations are presented.
Use of the pulmonary artery vent consistently and significantly decreased left heart pressures, compared to the control situation with the vent off, with the aortic cross-clamp applied, and in both the fibrillating and beating heart in the early postischemic reperfusion period. Data relating to the hemodynamic efficaciousness and mechanism of action of a pulmonary artery catheter or vent used for left ventricular venting during cardiac operations are presented.
Radionuclide measurements of ejection fraction were used to assess immediate and late postoperative ventricular function after the use of either a pulmonary artery vent (group A) or a left ventricular vent (group B) in 20 patients undergoing aortic valve replacement for pure aortic stenosis. 
Indications. Venting of the left heart is indicated whenever the left ventricle is unable to handle the amount of blood that is returning to it. There is considerable debate about the need to vent the left heart during CPB, especially in the era of cold cardioplegia and for coronary artery bypass surgery (2427). Excellent results have been reported without the use of venting in aortic (28) and coronary surgery (29). One definite advantage of a pulmonary artery catheter is that it can provide an indication of left atrial hypertension that accompanies left heart distension. It may be somewhat late in rising if the cause of left heart distension is aortic regurgitation and it is rendered invalid by a pulmonary artery vent.