Collision coverage comes with a deductible. This means you'll pay out of pocket for some of the damage, and any amount after that is typically covered up to the actual cash value of your car. Typical deductibles are between $0 and $1,000. Generally, the higher your deductible, the lower your premium.
No. Liability insurance will only cover your liability for property damage/injuries to others. In this case, it would cover the damage to the pole you hit. Your liability cove … rage will never cover damage to anything you own. You would need collision/comprehensive coverage to cover damage to your car.
If the driver of the vehicle who hit you is not identified, this claim will be paid out under the collision section of your automobile insurance policy and subject to your deductible. If you have no collision coverage, you may not have any coverage for the damage through your auto insurance policy.
Best Answer: It goes under your collision coverage on your policy, if you have it. You would just have to pay the deductible. In insurance, collision is defined as running into something, whether it's stationary or not. Source(s): I used to be an insurance claims adjuster.
Your collision coverage will pay for damage to your vehicle. Loss of use coverage will pay for a rental vehicle while your vehicle is being fixed and if not drivable, it will pay for the rental car from the time of the accident until the vehicle is fixed up to the limit, which is usually 30 days maximum.
As you can see, parked car insurance can refer to several different types of coverage. If it is important to you to protect your vehicle while it is parked, make sure to purchase the right coverage for your situation. The only way to fully protect your vehicle is to purchase both comprehensive and collision.
Plus, you are eligible for a rental car while your vehicle is being repaired. Collision coverage covers your car when you do not know who hit your vehicle. Your own policy will cover the repairs to your vehicle as long as you have collision coverage and you pay your deductible.
If your car is damaged or destroyed in an accident, collision insurance coverage will typically pay to fix or replace it. Types of covered accidents include hitting another car or hitting a stationary object, like a bridge or a tree.
slide-52475. If you have a collision with another car (or a stationary object, such as a telephone pole) and it's your fault, you'll need collision coverage in order for your insurer to pay for your car repairs. If you have a car loan or your car is leased, you are probably required to carry collision coverage.