A malicious site is a site that tricks you into giving away information or downloading a virus. Or it might have code that finds and exploits security holes in your computer. If the site can find a security hole, then it can download a virus to your computer and install it without any action on your part. One popular type of malicious site is the fake banking site. Hackers will steal the code for a bank's home page, so it looks exactly like the real thing. However, if you try to log in, the site records your login information and sends it straight to the hackers who log in to your real account and drain it.
The most popular type of malicious website is a Javascript virus, this injects your browser with a malicious code(virus code) and makes it for example make 100 windows fly around the screen with loud screeching playing. 1 You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM. 2  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 3  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 4  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm). 5  You can only upload a photo or a video.
1 IE has some inherent vulnerabilities that allow malware to be installed by just browsing a malicious website. *. 2  Install anti-virus software; scan and update regularly. 3  It can, in most cases, remove and prevent viruses, worms, trojans, and (depending on the software) some spyware. Malicious software (malware) is any software that gives partial to full control of your computer to do whatever the malware creator wants. Malware can be a virus, worm, trojan, adware, spyware, root kit, etc
Malware, short for malicious software, is any software used to disrupt computer operation, gather sensitive information, or gain access to private computer systems. Malware is defined by its malicious intent, acting against the requirements of the computer user, and does not include software that causes unintentional harm due to some deficiency. The term badware is sometimes used, and applied to both true (malicious) malware and unintentionally harmful software.
Malicious Code. Malicious code is the term used to describe any code in any part of a software system or script that is intended to cause undesired effects, security breaches or damage to a system. Malicious code is an application security threat that cannot be efficiently controlled by conventional antivirus software alone. Malicious code describes a broad category of system security terms that includes attack scripts, viruses, worms, Trojan horses, backdoors and malicious active content. Malicious code can take the form of: 1  Java Applets. 2  ActiveX Controls. 3  Scripting languages.
'Malware' is an umbrella term used to refer to a variety of forms of hostile or intrusive software, including computer viruses, worms, trojan horses, ransomware, spyware, adware, scareware, and other malicious programs. It can take the form of executable code, scripts, active content, and other software. Malware is defined by its malicious intent, acting against the requirements of the computer user, and does not include software that causes unintentional harm due to some deficiency. The term badware is sometimes used, and applied to both true (malicious) malware and unintentionally harmful software.
1 The Malicious Software Removal Tool website on Microsoft.com. 2  The computer must be running Windows 7, Windows Vista, Windows Server 2003, or Windows XP. 3  You must log on to the computer by using an account that is a member of the Administrators group. 1 The Microsoft Download Center. 2  The Malicious Software Removal Tool website on Microsoft.com. 3  The computer must be running Windows 7, Windows Vista, Windows Server 2003, or Windows XP. 4  You must log on to the computer by using an account that is a member of the Administrators group.
Examples of malicious javascript. If the hackers are using script to hack your site it will be obfuscated to try and hide what the script is doing. This type of hack can be inserted in individual html/php pages on a site or into one of the javascript files.