Up to three books, tapes, CDs and/or DVDs can be borrowed for 30 days from the Library for a nominal fee of $10. Call Information Services at 800-874-6500 for assistance. Become a mega-producer real estate agent: profit from a licensed assistant, (Mason, OH: Thomson South-Western, 2005). 
You can put in up to 20 percent of your net earnings from self-employment, which is your net Schedule C profit minus the deduction for one-half of your self-employment tax. The maximum annual contribution for 2011 and 2012 is $49,000, and 50,000, respectively. 
Some real estate lead-generation companies (including some real estate companies) charge a fixed fee or a percentage of a real estate commission for connecting consumers with real estate agents, this referral fee is in addition to the commission split. A real estate agent who lists a property for sale traditionally is paid a percentage of the home’s selling price, and the listing agent typically offers roughly half of that commission to an agent who brings a buyer into the transaction. There is a declining share of real estate commissions that agents are experiencing.
Once you know who you want to hire as your assistant, you must determine how you’ll pay that person. According to the 2012 NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS Member Profile, real estate practitioners compensate their personal assistants in a variety of ways: 1  38 percent are paid hourly. 1 In addition, let good candidates know that they’ll be in an ideal position to learn the business. 2  They can move up from an administrative role to buyer’s assistant or eventually to an independent salesperson. 3  A commission arrangement. 4  In this scenario, you pay your assistant a portion of everything you close.
What Unlicensed Assistants Can Do in Your State. Most states have guidelines for what tasks an unlicensed real estate assistant can and can’t do. You should check with your state real estate commission or licensing authority for the most current information. See the table below to find out what your state law allows for unlicensed assistants. For example, in Illinois, an unlicensed real estate assistant can perform the following tasks: 1  Answer the telephone, take messages, and forward calls to a licensee. 2  Submit listings and changes to an MLS.
Real Estate Assistant Salary. (United States). The average pay for a Real Estate Assistant is $13.95 per hour. The highest paying skills associated with this job are Office Management and Customer Relations. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this field. $20,899 - $51,490. The real estate assistant is a mix of a realtor and a secretary, as they typically handle incoming telephone calls, client contacts, open-house scheduling, copy-making, and creation of clerical reports and spreadsheets, in addition to other supporting tasks.
Real estate agent commissions or realtor commissions are fees paid to the listing (representing the house for sale) and selling (representing the buyer of the house) agent at the close of a real estate sales transaction. These fees can vary from one real estate deal to the next, or real estate agency, or market region. A real estate agent who lists a property for sale traditionally is paid a percentage of the home’s selling price, and the listing agent typically offers roughly half of that commission to an agent who brings a buyer into the transaction. There is a declining share of real estate commissions that agents are experiencing.
1 This structure provides the assistant with more security than commission alone, but no incentive to develop more deals. 2  And if your income ebbs, you’ll still have to pay that salary. 3  For an assistant on straight salary, you can offer a percentage of each sale that gets to closing or a flat fee, such as $200. 1 In addition, let good candidates know that they’ll be in an ideal position to learn the business. 2  They can move up from an administrative role to buyer’s assistant or eventually to an independent salesperson. 3  A commission arrangement. 4  In this scenario, you pay your assistant a portion of everything you close.
“I think that a lot of people need to recalibrate their expectations and realize this is a job.”. The Real Deal talked with industry veterans and found that in real-estate-related jobs, salaries run the gamut from $30,000 for a new appraiser to $30 million for a savvy developer. Even within individual professions, salaries are disparate depending on function and seniority. There are more leasing agents than sales brokers in commercial real estate. Indeed, there are probably 30 percent fewer sales brokers than leasing brokers because “it’s much harder to get into the sales side of the business than it would be to get into the leasing side of the business,” Krasnow said.