Kelp grows in underwater forests  (kelp forests) in shallow oceans, and is thought to have appeared in the Miocene, 23 to 5 million years ago. There are about 30 different genera. Kelp grows in underwater forests  (kelp forests) in shallow oceans, and is thought to have appeared in the Miocene, 23 to 5 million years ago. The organisms require nutrient-rich water with temperatures between 6 and 14 °C (43 and 57 °F).
Bladderwrack is a form of kelp that has been used medicinally for centuries. The main use of the herb has been for the stimulation of the thyroid gland as a treatment for obesity and cellulite. The high iodine content of the herb stimulates thyroid function which boosts metabolism. It has a reputation in the relief of rheumatism and rheumatoid arthritis and may be used both internally and as an external application for inflamed joint
Kelp is an herbal medicine taken from brown algae in salt water. It is used to treat weight loss, high blood pressure, low thyroid hormone, and arthritis. Kelp is also used to make the cervix (mouth of womb) open for childbirth or to end an early pregnancy. It is usually used as a source of iodine or salt. Other names for Kelp include: Laminaria digitata, Laminaria japonica, Laminaria saccharina, Macrocystis pyrifera, Brown Algae, Horsetail, Sea Girdles, Seaweed, Sugar Wrack, Brown Seaweed, Algae, and Tangleweed.
Kelp has other benefits as well. Kelp has been used for decades for strengthening nails and supporting hair growth. Some like to use kelp to hasten the buildup of the nail bed especially after the removal of acrylic nails, when the natural nail bed is seriously damaged. It is because of kelp’s support of the pituitary gland and the thyroid that makes it the superhero of supplements for nail and hair health. Kelp is more than capable as an adequate daily women’s vitamin because it is packed with other necessary nutrients such as iron, calcium and potassium.
Categories Supplements Algae, Various Kelp. Kelp refers to different species of huge, brown algae. It is a common food in Japan and is a good source of folic acid, iodine and many different vitamins. Taking excessive kelp can overload the body with iodine and possibly cause thyroid problems. Informative Links:
Kelp comes in tablet form or can be made into a tea. It can also be found in seaweed products offered in health food stores for making salads, soups and other recipes calling for dark, leafy greens. It is because of kelp’s support of the pituitary gland and the thyroid that makes it the superhero of supplements for nail and hair health. Kelp is more than capable as an adequate daily women’s vitamin because it is packed with other necessary nutrients such as iron, calcium and potassium.
Through the 19th century, the word kelp was closely associated with seaweeds that could be burned to obtain soda ash (primarily sodium carbonate). The seaweeds used included species from both the orders Laminariales and Fucales. The word kelp was also used directly to refer to these processed ashes. There are about 30 different genera. Kelp grows in underwater forests  (kelp forests) in shallow oceans, and is thought to have appeared in the Miocene, 23 to 5 million years ago. The organisms require nutrient-rich water with temperatures between 6 and 14 °C (43 and 57 °F).
Kelps are large seaweeds (algae) belonging to the brown algae (Phaeophyceae) in the order Laminariales. There are about 30 different genera. Kelp grows in underwater forests  (kelp forests) in shallow oceans, and is thought to have appeared in the Miocene, 23 to 5 million years ago. The organisms require nutrient-rich water with temperatures between 6 and 14 °C (43 and 57 °F).
Kelp is also used to stimulate hair growth as it helps to grow the hair stronger and thicker. It is because of kelp’s support of the pituitary gland and the thyroid that makes it the superhero of supplements for nail and hair health. Kelp is more than capable as an adequate daily women’s vitamin because it is packed with other necessary nutrients such as iron, calcium and potassium.