We define him as a great man of the Chinese people, a hero of the Mongolian nationality, and a giant in world history, said Guo Wurong, the manager of the new Genghis Khan mausoleum in China's Inner Mongolia province. Genghis Khan was certainly Chinese, he added. 
After founding the Mongol Empire and being proclaimed Genghis Khan, he started the Mongol invasions that resulted in the conquest of most of Eurasia. These included raids or invasions of the Qara Khitai, Caucasus, Khwarezmid Empire, Western Xia and Jin dynasties. Before Genghis Khan died, he assigned Ögedei ögedei khan as his successor and split his empire into khanates among his sons and. Grandsons he died in 1227 after defeating The Western. xia
Synopsis. Genghis Khan was born Temujin in Mongolia around 1162. He married at age 16, but had many wives during his lifetime. At 20, he began building a large army with the intent to destroy individual tribes in Northeast Asia and unite them under his rule. Mongolian warrior and ruler Genghis Khan created the largest empire in the world, the Mongol Empire, by destroying individual tribes in Northeast Asia.
View full size image. Genghis Khan was a 13th-century warrior in central Asia who founded the Mongol Empire, one of the largest empires in history. By the time he died, the empire controlled a vast amount of territory in China and central Asia, and its armies had ventured as far west as Kiev in modern-day Ukraine. Early life. Genghis Khan was born with the name Temujin (also spelled Temuchin). At the time, Mongolia was ruled by different clans and tribal groups. His father, named Yesukai, “was lord and leader of 40,000 tents or families.
Introduction. Mongol leader Genghis Khan (1162-1227) rose from humble beginnings to establish the largest land empire in history. After uniting the nomadic tribes of the Mongolian plateau, he conquered huge chunks of central Asia and China. 
Before Genghis Khan died, he assigned Ögedei ögedei khan as his successor and split his empire into khanates among his sons and. Grandsons he died in 1227 after defeating The Western. Xia he was buried in an unmarked grave somewhere In mongolia at an unknown. location Before Genghis Khan died, he assigned Ögedei ögedei khan as his successor and split his empire into khanates among his sons and. Grandsons he died in 1227 after defeating The Western. xia
Genghis Khan (/ˈdʒɛŋɡɪs ˈkɑːn/ , often pronounced /ˈɡɛŋɡɪs ˈkɑːn/ ; [tʃiŋɡɪs xaːŋ]. ; c. 1162 – 18 August 1227), born Temuejin, temüjin was the founder And Great (khan) emperor of The Mongol, empire which became the largest contiguous empire in history after his. demise Before Genghis Khan died, he assigned Ögedei ögedei khan as his successor and split his empire into khanates among his sons and. Grandsons he died in 1227 after defeating The Western. xia