Autoimmune Diseases. More than 80 diseases occur as a result of the immune system attacking the body’s own organs, tissues, and cells. Some of the more common autoimmune diseases include type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis (RA), systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), and inflammatory bowel disease.
Overall, autoimmune diseases are common, affecting more than 23.5 million Americans. They are a leading cause of death and disability. Yet some autoimmune diseases are rare, while others, such as Hashimoto's disease, affect many people. 1 People with a family history — Some autoimmune diseases run in families, such as lupus and multiple sclerosis. 2  It is also common for different types of autoimmune diseases to affect different members of a single family. 3  Inheriting certain genes can make it more likely to get an autoimmune disease.
Injectable drugs may be used to soothe joint pain caused by immune disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis. Multiple sclerosis is a common autoimmune disease that affects the nervous system. Leukocytes are an important component of blood and a key player in the body's immune system. Rheumatoid arthritis is an immune disorder that commonly affects the hands and wrists. Systemic immune disorders describe a condition where the immune disorder affects more than one organ in the body, whereas localized immune disorders typically only affect one organ. Some of the more common types of systemic immune disorders include rheumatoid arthritis and lupus.
Immune system disorders cause abnormally low activity or over activity of the immune system. In cases of immune system over activity, the body attacks and damages its own tissues (autoimmune diseases). Immune deficiency diseases decrease the body's ability to fight invaders, causing vulnerability to infections. 1 People with lupus develop autoimmune antibodies that can attach to tissues throughout the body. 2  The joints, lungs, blood cells, nerves, and kidneys are commonly affected in lupus. 3  Treatment often requires daily oral prednisone, a steroid that reduces immune system function. 4  Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD).
The following are some of the more common autoimmune diseases: 1  rheumatoid arthritis: inflammation of joints and surrounding tissues. 2  systemic lupus erythematosus: affects skin, joints, kidneys, brain, and other organs. However, common symptoms are fatigue, fever, and general malaise (feeling ill). Symptoms worsen during flare-ups and lessen during remission. Autoimmune diseases affect many parts of the body. The most common organs and tissue affected are: 1  joints. 2  muscles. 3  skin. 4  red blood cells.
advertisement. Autoimmune diseases are caused by the overreaction of an individual’s immune system. The immune system provides the body with protection from threats such as parasites, bacteria, fungus and viruses. In the case of an autoimmune disease, the body mistakes normal body tissue to be a threat and attacks it. The most common autoimmune diseases are listed below. 1  Hashimoto’s Thyroiditis: This is a chronic thyroditis condition that afflicts the thyroid gland, which is necessary for the production of hormones that regulate our body’s usage of energy or metabolism. 2  It often results in hypothyroidism.
Common variable immune deficiency (CVID) is a disorder that impairs the immune system. People with CVID are highly susceptible to infection from foreign invaders such as bacteria, or more rarely, viruses and often develop recurrent infections, particularly in the lungs, sinuses, and ears. 
About Autoimmune Disease. More than 80 diseases occur as a result of the immune system attacking the body's own organs, tissues, and cells. Some of the more common autoimmune diseases include type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and inflammatory bowel disease. Disease that results when the immune system mistakenly attacks the body's own tissues. Examples include multiple sclerosis, type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and systemic lupus erythematosus. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: NIH-National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases).