The drug or other substances have a high potential for abuse The drug or other substances have currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States, or currently accepted medical use with severe restrictions Abuse of the drug or other substances may lead to severe psychological or physical dependence. Except when dispensed directly by a practitioner, other than a pharmacist, to an ultimate user, no controlled substance in Schedule II, which is a prescription drug as determined under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 USC 301 et seq.
TruthOnPot.com – The Controlled Substances Act is the presiding federal U.S. drug policy that was passed by Congress in 1970 to regulate the manufacturing, use and distribution of certain substances. The drug or other substance has no currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States. 3. There is a lack of accepted safety for use of the drug or other substance under medical supervision.
The drug or other substance has a high potential for abuse. The drug or other substance has no currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States. There is a lack of accepted safety for use of the drug or other substance under medical supervision. Except when dispensed directly by a practitioner, other than a pharmacist, to an ultimate user, no controlled substance in Schedule II, which is a prescription drug as determined under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 USC 301 et seq.
The Congress of the United States enacted into law the Controlled Substances Act (CSA) as Title II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970. 1 The CSA serves as the legal foundation of the government's fight against drugs of abuse. 
1 (2) Schedule II. -. ( 2 A) The drug or other substance has a high potential for abuse. ( 3 B) The drug or other substance has a currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States or a currently accepted medical use with severe restrictions. 1 (A) The drug or other substance has a potential for abuse less than the drugs or other substances in schedules I and II. ( 2 B) The drug or other substance has a currently accepted medical use in treatment in the United States.
The Controlled Substances Act (CSA) was enacted into law by the Congress of the United States as Title II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970.[1]. 1  Controlled Substances Import and Export Act. At the federal level, Congress enacted the Controlled Substances Act (CSA) in 1970 in an effort to categorize regulated drugs based on their potential for abuse, as well as the benefits they provide from a medical standpoint. States have enacted their own schedules in much the same fashion.
Rohypnol is not approved or available for medical use in the United States, but it is temporarily controlled in Schedule IV pursuant to a treaty obligation under the 1971 Convention on Psychotropic Substances. Except when dispensed directly by a practitioner, other than a pharmacist, to an ultimate user, no controlled substance in Schedule II, which is a prescription drug as determined under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 USC 301 et seq.
State schedules may vary from federal schedules. The Controlled Substances Act (CSA), Title II of the Comprehensive Drug Abuse Prevention and Control Act of 1970, is the legal foundation of the government's fight against the abuse of drugs and other substances. 1236 (Oct. 27, 1970), is a United States federal law that, with subsequent modifications, requires the pharmaceutical industry to maintain physical security and strict record keeping for certain types of drugs.
Section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802) was amended to define anabolic steroid as any drug or hormonal substance that is used for promoting growth of muscles in a manner that is pharmacologically similar to testosterone, and includes–. (A) Boldenone. 