Poison sumac plant. Poison ivy rash is a type of allergic contact dermatitis caused by an oily resin called urushiol. It's found in the leaves, stems and roots of poison ivy, poison oak and poison sumac. This resin is very sticky, so it easily attaches to your skin, clothing, tools, equipment and pet's fur. 
Poison ivy, oak, and sumac rash itself is not contagious. However, if oil remains on the skin or on clothing that came in contact with the plants, and the oil comes into further contact with skin, a rash may result. Causes of Poison Ivy, Oak, and Sumac Rash. The rash caused by poison ivy, oak, and sumac is an allergic skin reaction to an oil called urushiol that is inside the plant. This oil is found in all parts of the plant, including the leaves, stems, roots, and berries.
1 Poison ivy, poison oak, and poison sumac are plants than can cause an itchy rash upon contact. 2  A substance called urushiol, found in these plants, causes the rash. 3  The rash is not contagious. 4  The rash usually disappears in one to three weeks. 5  The majority of cases can be treated at home. Poison ivy, oak, and sumac facts. 1  Poison ivy, poison oak, and poison sumac are plants than can cause an itchy rash upon contact. 2  A substance called urushiol, found in these plants, causes the rash. 3  The rash is not contagious. 4  The rash usually disappears in one to three weeks
Not Contagious. Poison ivy and other poison plant rashes can't be spread from person to person. But it is possible to pick up the rash from plant oil that may have stuck to clothing, pets, garden tools, and other items that have come in contact with these plants.
Poison ivy, poison oak, and poison sumac are plants that contain an irritating, oily sap called urushiol. Urushiol triggers an allergic reaction when it comes into contact with the skin, resulting in an itchy rash that can appear within hours of exposure or three to five days later. 
Poison ivy, oak, and sumac are plants that can cause a red, itchy rash called allergic contact dermatitis. It is the most common skin problem caused by contact with plants. The rash is caused by contact with a sticky oil called urushiol (say yoo-ROO-shee-all) found in poison ivy, oak, or sumac. You can get the rash from: 1  Touching or brushing against any part of these plants, including the leaves, stems, flowers, berries, and roots, even if the plant is dead
Scratching poison ivy blisters will not spread the rash. In addition, the poison ivy rash is not contagious-only urushiol (oil found in the sap of poison ivy) can cause a reaction. These plants can cause an allergic reaction in nearly 85 percent of the population. Poison ivy/poison oak cannot be spread from person to person by touching the blisters, or from the fluid inside the blisters. It can be spread, however, if the oils remain on the skin, clothes, or shoes. This is why washing your hands, clothes, and shoes as soon as possible is very important.