Vancomycin is an antibiotic used to treat a severe intestinal condition known as Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea. This condition usually occurs after the use of another antibiotic, which allows the growth of resistant bacteria in the intestines, leading to severe diarrhea. How to use vancomycin. Take this medication by mouth, usually 4 times a day for 7 to 10 days or as directed by your doctor. Dosage is based on your medical condition and response to treatment. Cholestyramine and colestipol can decrease vancomycin's effects when given at the same time. If you are taking either of these drugs, separate them from vancomycin by at least 3 to 4 hours. If you are unsure, ask your pharmacist about the best way to do this. This antibiotic works best when the amount of medicine in your intestines is kept at a constant level
Vancomycin is an antibiotic used to treat a number of bacterial infections. It is recommended intravenously as a first-line treatment for complicated skin infections, bloodstream infections, endocarditis, bone and joint infections, and meningitis caused by methicillin-resistant S. aureus. Vancomycin is considered a last resort medication for the treatment of septicemia and lower respiratory tract, skin, and bone infections caused by gram-positive bacteria. The MIC susceptibility data for a few medically significant bacteria are:
Some drugs do interact with vancomycin. Tell your health practitioner if you are taking any other medicines, especially aminoglycosides, amphotericin B, bacitracin, cisplatin, colistin, polymyxin B, or viomycin. 
Vancomycin is indicated for the treatment of serious, life-threatening infections by gram-positive bacteria unresponsive to other antibiotics. In particular, vancomycin should not be used to treat methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus because it is inferior to penicillins such as nafcillin. Vancomycin is considered a last resort medication for the treatment of septicemia and lower respiratory tract, skin, and bone infections caused by gram-positive bacteria. The MIC susceptibility data for a few medically significant bacteria are:
Vancomycin, a useful bactericidal antibiotic for selective clinical infections, is the therapy of choice for serious staphylococcal infections when the penicillins and cephalosporins cannot be used. The antibacterial spectrum of vancomycin also covers other gram-positive cocci and bacteria and gram-negative cocci. 
Vancomycin is used to treat infections caused by bacteria. It belongs to the family of medicines called antibiotics. Vancomycin works by killing bacteria or preventing their growth. Vancomycin will not work for colds, flu, or other virus infections. It is sometimes given with other antibiotics. Vancomycin is also used in patients with heart valve disease (e.g., rheumatic fever) or prosthetic (artificial) heart valves who are allergic to penicillin.
Vancomycin is used to treat infections in many different parts of the body. It is sometimes given with other antibiotics. Vancomycin is also used in patients with heart valve disease (e.g., rheumatic fever) or prosthetic (artificial) heart valves who are allergic to penicillin.
Uses. Vancomycin is an antibiotic used to treat serious bacterial infections. It works by stopping the growth of bacteria. This medication is usually injected into a vein. Before using vancomycin, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems.
Vancomycin is a prescription antibiotic used to treat bacterial infections. Vancocin is the brand name of vancomycin. The drug works by killing bacteria or preventing their growth. Vancomycin is commonly used to treat an intestinal illness caused by the bacteria Clostridium difficile (C. The most common side effect of vancomycin is an upset stomach. You should tell your doctor if this problem becomes severe or does not go away. Other, less common, side effects may include: 1  Flu-like symptoms such as sore throat, fever, or chills. 2  Rash on the skin. 3  Hives. 4  Itching.