The number of protons in an atom is referred to as the atomic number of that element. The number of protons in an atom also determines the chemical behavior of the element. The Periodic Table of the Elements arranges elements in order of increasing atomic number. Protons are made of other particles called quarks. There are three quarks in each proton — two up quarks and one down quark — and they are held together by other particles called gluons. Protons and neutrons are heavier than electrons and reside in the center of the atom, which is called the nucleus. Electrons are extremely lightweight and exist in a cloud orbiting the nucleus. The electron cloud has a radius 10,000 times greater than the nucleus. Protons and neutrons have approximately the same mass.
A cell can be thought of as a mini-organism consisting of tiny organs called organelles. The organellesA structural or functional unit in a cell that is constructed from several macromolecules bonded together. are structural and functional units constructed from several macromolecules bonded together. 1 Cells are the basic structural and functional unit of all life. 2  Examples include red blood cells and nerve cells. 3  Tissues. 4  TissuesA group of cells that share a common structure and function and that work together. are groups of cells that share a common structure and function and
The number of protons in the nucleus determines the identity of the atom. For example all carbon atoms contain six protons, all gold atoms contain 79 protons, all lead atoms contain 82 protons. Two atoms with the same number of protons, but different numbers of neutrons are called isotopes. 
All matter is made up of elements which are fundamental substances which cannot be broken down by chemical means. There are 92 elements that occur naturally. The elements hydrogen, carbon, nitrogen and oxygen are the elements that make up most living organisms. Some other elements found in living organisms are: magnesium, calcium, phosphorus, sodium, potassium. By the late 1800's many elements had already been discovered. Atoms are composed of three type of particles: protons, neutrons, and electron. Protons and neutrons are responsible for most of the atomic mass e.g in a 150 person 149 lbs, 15 oz are protons and neutrons while only 1 oz. is electrons. The mass of an electron is very small (9.108 X 10 -28 grams).
Atoms of the same element have the same number of protons, called the atomic number. Within a single element, the number of neutrons may vary, determining the isotope of that element. The total number of protons and neutrons determine the nuclide. One mole of atoms of any element always has the same number of atoms (about 7023602200000000000♠6.022×1023). This number was chosen so that if an element has an atomic mass of 1 u, a mole of atoms of that element has a mass close to one gram.
However, one proton weighs more than 1,800 electrons. Atoms always have an equal number of protons and electrons, and the number of protons and neutrons is usually the same as well. Adding a proton to an atom makes a new element, while adding a neutron makes an isotope, or heavier version, of that atom. Protons and neutrons are heavier than electrons and reside in the center of the atom, which is called the nucleus. Electrons are extremely lightweight and exist in a cloud orbiting the nucleus. The electron cloud has a radius 10,000 times greater than the nucleus. Protons and neutrons have approximately the same mass.
The basic building block of any substance is the atom. Every element and compound is made up of one or more atoms. In making up of the atom an atom is made up of only one nucleus but can have several shells. Within the nucleus protons and neutrons are present. Every element has a specific number of protons. Atoms are tiny units of matter. All matter are made up of matter that occupies space and is made up of atoms. Atoms are the smallest particle of an element that can join up in whole numbers to form molecules.
The cell (from Latin cella, meaning small room) is the basic structural, functional, and biological unit of all known living organisms. Cells are the smallest unit of life that can replicate independently, and are often called the building blocks of life. The study of cells is called cell biology. 
Every atom is composed of a nucleus and one or more electrons bound to the nucleus. The nucleus is made of one or more protons and typically a similar number of neutrons (none in hydrogen-1). Protons and neutrons are called nucleons. Over 99.94% of the atom's mass is in the nucleus. One mole of atoms of any element always has the same number of atoms (about 7023602200000000000♠6.022×1023). This number was chosen so that if an element has an atomic mass of 1 u, a mole of atoms of that element has a mass close to one gram.