1 Heather flowers are seen in pink, lavender, white, magenta, amethyst, purple and red. 2  Heather flowers also come in beautiful and varied colors of copper, pink, gold, silvery gray and almost infinite shades of green. Heather flowers bloom in late summer. Wild species of Heather flowers are usually in purple or mauve shades. The flower's various cultivars come in colors ranging from white, through pink, a wide range of purples and reds.
Blooming Colors. Heather plants bloom in a wide variety of colors that include purple, lavender, pink, red, magenta, amethyst, green, gold, silver and white, depending on its type. Its foliage can also range in these various colors. 
In clothing, heather refers to interwoven yarns of mixed colors producing flecks of an alternate color. It is typically used to mix multiple shades of grey or grey with another color to produce a muted shade (e.g., heather green), but any two colors can be mixed, including bright colors. It is sometimes referred to as a frosting color.
1 More Color Combos: Get more color combinations for your color. 2  See More Shades: View different shades of your selected color. 3  View Similar Colors: See colors resembling the one you've chosen. 4  Share: Share colors with your friends on social networks. 5  Send: E-mail your color to others. 6  Print: Print your color. 1 See More Shades: View different shades of your selected color. 2  View Similar Colors: See colors resembling the one you've chosen. 3  Share: Share colors with your friends on social networks. 4  Send: E-mail your color to others. 5
1 Heather flowers also come in beautiful and varied colors of copper, pink, gold, silvery gray and almost infinite shades of green. 2  Heather, the name most commonly used for the plant, is of Scottish origin presumably derived from the Scots word Haeddre. 3  Heather is one of Scotland's most prolific and abundant plants. Heather flowers bloom in late summer. Wild species of Heather flowers are usually in purple or mauve shades. The flower's various cultivars come in colors ranging from white, through pink, a wide range of purples and reds.
Heather (Calluna vulgaris) Scotch Heather/Ling Heather, is an evergreen branching shrub. Heather flowers bloom in late summer. Wild species of Heather flowers are usually in purple or mauve shades. The flower's various cultivars come in colors ranging from white, through pink, a wide range of purples and reds.
Archive Colors. Our old colors, made new again. With our custom color formulas, you can create our old bottle and powder colors by mixing together our current core colors. Click on a color droplet to get the custom formula based on our liquid dye. 
Clusters of tiny flowers—usually in shades of purple, but sometimes in pink or white—bloom all along the stems from spring to fall, or even year-round in mild climates. Mexican heather can be sold under a variety of other names, including false heather, Hawaiian heather and elfin herb. How to use it: In frost-free zones, Mexican heather makes a wonderful evergreen groundcover and provides non-stop bloom in borders, foundation plantings and containers. In USDA Zones 7 and 8, treat it like a perennial for spring-to-fall interest in beds and borders. Elsewhere, enjoy Mexican heather as an annual, either in the ground or in pots. In any area, the fine-textured foliage and flowers make it a perfect partner for bolder leaves and blooms. It also makes a lovely houseplant. Culture: Average, well-drained soil with full sun to light shade is fine in most areas.
Sweet peas (Lathyrus odorata) have one of the widest flower color ranges in the plant kingdom. While blue is a rare color in flowers, sweet peas offer multiple shades of blue, from true blue to navy blue to pale blue, plus clear red, pink, white, cream, purple, magenta, peach and burgundy. The flowers are solid, bi-colored, or feature stripes and streaks of other colors swirled together