In cell biology, the nucleus (pl. nuclei; from Latin nucleus or nuculeus, meaning kernel) is a membrane-enclosed organelle found in eukaryotic cells. Eukaryotes usually have a single nucleus, but a few cell types have no nuclei, and a few others have many. Cell nuclei contain most of the cell's genetic material, organized as multiple long linear DNA molecules in complex with a large variety of proteins, such as histones, to form chromosomes.
The nucleus of a eukaryotic cell contains the DNA, the genetic material of the cell. The DNA contains the information necessary for constructing the cell and directing the multitude of synthesis tasks performed by the cell in the process of life and reproduction. 
Genetic material. Definition. noun. The genetic material of a cell or an organism refers to those materials found in the nucleus, mitochondria and cytoplasm, which play a fundamental role in determining the structure and nature of cell substances, and capable of self-propagating and variation. Supplement. Supplement. The genetic material of a cell can be a gene, a part of a gene, a group of genes, a DNA molecule, a fragment of DNA, a group of DNA molecules, or the entire genome of an organism. See also: gene, chromosome, genotype.
All prokaryotic cells contain large quantities of genetic material in the form of DNA and RNA. Because prokaryotic cells, by definition, do not have a nucleus, the single large circular strand of DNA containing most of the genes needed for cell growth, survival, and reproduction is found in the cytoplasm.
This organelle has two major functions: it stores the cell's hereditary material, or DNA, and it coordinates the cell's activities, which include growth, intermediary metabolism, protein synthesis, and reproduction (cell division). Only the cells of advanced organisms, known as eukaryotes, have a nucleus. The semifluid matrix found inside the nucleus is called nucleoplasm. Within the nucleoplasm, most of the nuclear material consists of chromatin, the less condensed form of the cell's DNA that organizes to form chromosomes during mitosis or cell division.
Genetic material, composed of DNA that is packaged into string-like  structures called chromatin, makes up a region called the  nucleolus, which is inside the nucleus of a c … ell.In eukaryotes, the  genetic material is found within the nucleus of the cell in a form  of chromatins. 
1 Inside the cell is the cytoplasmic region that contains the genome (DNA), ribosomes and various sorts of inclusions. 2  The genetic material is freely found in the cytoplasm. 3  Prokaryotes can carry extrachromosomal DNA elements called plasmids, which are usually circular. 1 Some eukaryotic cells (plant cells and fungal cells) also have a cell wall. 2  Inside the cell is the cytoplasmic region that contains the genome (DNA), ribosomes and various sorts of inclusions. 3  The genetic material is freely found in the cytoplasm.
These are the nucleus, the cytoplasm, and the cell membrane. The cell membrane is the outer-boundary of a cell, and it contains various channels to let materials into and out of a cell. The nucleus is at the center of the cell, and it is home to all of a cell’s chromosomes, or genetic material. Cytoplasm is actually a little bit thicker than water. The cytoplasm is literally the ‘cell substance’ and it is kind of a ‘molecular soup’ of all kinds of different things with various functions. It is not just ‘filler fluid’. But, none of a cells genetic materials are found in the cytoplasm.
Organelles. The organelles within the cytoplasm do not contain any of a cells genetic material, because all of that is exclusive contained within the nucleus. The organelles inside cytoplasm are very important for the maintenance of the cell. Cytoplasm is actually a little bit thicker than water. The cytoplasm is literally the ‘cell substance’ and it is kind of a ‘molecular soup’ of all kinds of different things with various functions. It is not just ‘filler fluid’. But, none of a cells genetic materials are found in the cytoplasm.