The Personal Unblocking Code (PUK code) is a security feature to protect the SIM card user in case of phone theft. When an unknown user attempts to unlock your phone by putting the wrong PIN code three consecutive times, the card will get blocked.
Summary. If your mobile phone is SIM locked and asking for the PUC or PUK number follow our above instructions on how to find the PUK code. Use our list to find the wireless network that your SIM card is blocked on to contact them for the PUK number. Enter the code and don’t forget to set a new PIN.
PUK code refers to “Personal Unlocking Key” . PUK code is security code that protects your SIM card data. Your mobile phone asks for PUK code only when you have entered incorrect pin number three times. Once if your mobile starts asking for its PUK code then you can neither make a call nor send text from it.
Please enter your PUK code carefully-if you enter the wrong PUK code 10 times, you will permanently block your SIM card and we'll need to send you a new one. Your phone can become blocked in a number of ways-one of them is if you enter your SIM card PIN number incorrectly three times in a row.
The PUC code or PUK key is found on the SIM certificate, which you get when you first connect to a wireless network. Entering the PUK number will bring back the original unlocked status of your cellular phone. The PUK can also be obtained from the network service operator (ie.
When you insert the SIM card into another phone, the phone prompts you for the code. If you put in the code wrong three times, the phone will lock the PIN and ask for a PIN Unlocking Key. Step 1. Contact your cellular carrier. Some phones allow you to call the carrier even if the PUK is locked.
Please take care when you enter your PUK code-if you enter the wrong PUK code 10 times in a row, you will block your SIM card and we'll need to send you a new one. Your phone can become blocked in a number of ways-one of them is if you enter your SIM card PIN number incorrectly three times in a row.