ALZA is a wholly owned subsidiary of J & J. ALZA manufactures Nicoderm & Nicoderm CQ. Johnson & Johnson's buyout of Pfizer Consumer Health (PCH) now gives J & J additional pharmaceutical nicotine profits from Nicotrol, Nicorette, and Commit (see pgs 32,33,56). Note: GSK distributes Nicoderm, but it is manufactured by a Johnson & Johnson subsidiary......ALZA.
In recent years, there has been a boom in growth for products designed to help you stop smoking. From patches to prescriptions, nicotine delivery systems, herbal products, supplements, chewing gum, and lozenges, the options seem endless. 
NicoDerm is manufactured by ALZA Corporation, based in Mountain View, California. It is marketed by GlaxoSmithKline (GSK), Aventis and Pfizer. NicoDerm was approved by the FDA in 1991, as the first nicotine transdermal system. It was the second product to provide an alternative to the withdrawal symptoms of quitting smoking. Nicotine gums, such as Pfizer 's Nicotrol gum, were already available. Shortly after NicoDerm's initial release, the company added Clear NicoDerm, since some users had complained about the patch's inability to match a wide variety of skin colors. NicoDerm has become the most popular topical nicotine alternative.
NICORETTE ® Inhaler is a stop smoking aid that contains nicotine. To be sure this product is right for you, always read and follow the label. To be used with willpower as part of a smoking cessation program. Controls cigarette cravings. Must be 18 years or older to use the NICORETTE ® Inhaler.
Nicotine, or its primary metabolite cotinine, is most often tested to evaluate tobacco use. Long-term smoking of tobacco products can increase the risk of developing many diseases including lung cancer, COPD, stroke, heart disease, and respiratory infections. How much it rises depends on the amount of nicotine in the cigarette and the manner in which a person smokes, such as how deeply he or she inhales. The rate at which nicotine is metabolized and cotinine is cleared from the body also varies from person to person due to some genetic differences.
Among the company's largest and most well-known brands is a line of nicotine replacement products, including nicotine gum, transdermal patch, and nasal spray and inhaler.. Pharmacia & Upjohn are one of three pharmaceutical partners in the WHO global anti-tobacco project. Pfizer-Discovers, develops, manufactures and markets leading prescription medicines for humans and animals, and many of the world's best known consumer products. Pfizer had global revenues of $29.6 billion in 2000. In 2000 Pfizer took over Warner-Lambert.
The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation is the biggest single shareholder in J&J and began its massive funding of tobacco control in the U.S. in 1991, the same year the FDA approved the nicotine patch as a prescription drug. Pfizer-Discovers, develops, manufactures and markets leading prescription medicines for humans and animals, and many of the world's best known consumer products. Pfizer had global revenues of $29.6 billion in 2000. In 2000 Pfizer took over Warner-Lambert.
Nicorette 4 mg Gum should be chewed slowly according to the instructions. The strength of gum to be used will depend on the smoking habits of the individual. In general, if the patient smokes 20 or less cigarettes a day, 2mg nicotine gum is indicated. If more than 20 cigarettes per day are smoked, 4mg nicotine gum will be needed to meet the withdrawal of the high serum nicotine levels from heavy smoking. Renal or hepatic impairment: Nicorette 4mg Gum should be used with caution in patients with moderate to severe hepatic impairment and/or severe renal impairment as the clearance of nicotine or its metabolites may be decreased with the potential for increased adverse effects.
AMGen (formerly Applied Molecular Genetics) is an American multinational biopharmaceutical company headquartered in Thousand Oaks, California. Located in the Conejo Valley, AMGen is the world's largest independent biotechnology firm. The word AMGen is a portmanteau of the company's original name, A pplied M olecular Gen etics, which became the official name of the company in 1983 (three years after incorporation and coincident with its initial public offering).