INTERMOLECULAR BONDING-HYDROGEN BONDS This page explains the origin of hydrogen bonding-a relatively strong form of intermolecular attraction. If you are also interested in the weaker intermolecular forces (van der Waals dispersion forces and dipole-dipole interactions), there is a link at the bottom of the page. The evidence for hydrogen bonding Many elements form compounds with hydrogen. Water as a perfect example of hydrogen bonding. Notice that each water molecule can potentially form four hydrogen bonds with surrounding water molecules. There are exactly the right numbers of δ+ hydrogens and lone pairs so that every one of them can be involved in
The third-period elements can hold up up to 18 valence shell electrons. Apparently third-period elements can depart from the octet rule by having more than eight electrons in their valence shells. From the choices you have given, P, Cl, Se and Sn are all capable of having more than 4 pairs of valence electrons. This automatically eliminates carbon, oxygen, boron and fluorine. Tin will tend to form either a +2 or +4 ion, so that's eliminated. Chlorine is in the 3rd period, but because of it's high electronegativity, it will never be the central atom in a compound.
Concept 4.2 Carbon atoms can form diverse molecules by bonding to four other atoms. With a total of 6 electrons, a carbon atom has 2 in the first electron shell and 4 in the second shell. Carbon has little tendency to form ionic bonds by losing or gaining 4 electrons to complete its valence shell. 
The element argon is a one-atom molecule. Other molecules can consist of two atoms of the same element. The oxygen molecule is made up of two oxygen atoms bonded together. However, in certain circumstances, three oxygen atoms bond together, forming a molecule called ozone.
They can have up to 6 valence pairs around the central atom. This automatically eliminates carbon, oxygen, boron and fluorine. Tin will tend to form either a +2 or +4 ion, so that's eliminated. Chlorine is in the 3rd period, but because of it's high electronegativity, it will never be the central atom in a compound.
If you liken the covalent bond between the oxygen and hydrogen to a stable marriage, the hydrogen bond has just good friends status. Water as a perfect example of hydrogen bonding. Notice that each water molecule can potentially form four hydrogen bonds with surrounding water molecules. There are exactly the right numbers of δ+ hydrogens and lone pairs so that every one of them can be involved in hydrogen bonding.
CHANGING MOLECULES. FIND OUT MORE. Most atoms join up with other atoms through chemical BONDS to form larger particles called molecules. They can join up with atoms of the same element or with atoms of different elements. Substances whose molecules contain different types of atom are called compounds. Other molecules can consist of two atoms of the same element. The oxygen molecule is made up of two oxygen atoms bonded together. However, in certain circumstances, three oxygen atoms bond together, forming a molecule called ozone.
Any element with an atomic number greater than 10 is capable of hypervalency. Electrons in the valence shell of these elements can be placed into hybridized d-orbitals during bonding if it is necessary to reduce the formal charge on the central atom of a molecule. The elements in period 3 and above have d orbitals available for bonding which makes the expansion of the octet more likely. period 2 elements do not, the 2d shell has only … s and p orbitals. P is in period 3, an example is PCl5 with 5 electron pairs
The elements in period 3 and above have d orbitals available for bonding which makes the expansion of the octet more likely. period 2 elements do not, the 2d shell has only s and p orbitals. P is in period 3, an example is PCl5 with 5 electron pairs. The rule is applicable to the main-group elements. In simple terms, molecules or ions tend to be most stable when the outermost electron shells of their constituent atoms contain eight electrons.