Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Darkness as a symbols lends itself to multiple interpretations. Like you wrote, it can be a metaphor for evil and death but also it can be viewed as a symbol of peace, silence, rest, comfort. Remember that the we are born after nine moths in our mother's womb: a dark and warm place that satisfies all your needs. Life doesn't get better than that. Source(s): In Joseph Conrad's The Heart of Darkness which is a story about civilized Englishmen venturing into the savage jungles of Africa Darkness symbolizes the evils of the human heart. Look darkness is bad! Light is good! Just look at the context of the story to determine the particular symbolism.
Authors have played with the distinctions of light and dark for as long as others have reinforced their separateness. The romantics and existentialists viewed darkness as a necessary condition of life -- not only essential to any true fullness of being, but also essential to human freedom. Religious Symbolism. The book of Genesis begins with God’s separation of the light from the dark. This separation originates in the cosmos, but it describes man’s moral state in the Old Testament and the New Testament. Light is assigned the good, and darkness is assigned the evil.
Put away your yin-yang posters: in Heart of Darkness, light doesn't necessarily symbolize pure goodness or pure enlightenment. In fact, Conrad's vision is so dark that we're not even sure he fully trusts light. As Marlow says, sunlight can be made to lie, too (3.50). 
Darkness is a symbol of evil or mystery or fear.The darkness is almost a monster waiting to swallow you whole. It is the absence of light. Scientifically it is only possible to have a reduced amount of light. The emotional response to an absence of light has inspired metaphor in literature, symbolism in art, and emphasis.The story of the Light versus the Darkness is one that everyone thinks that they know. The Light is good and the Dark is bad. Poetic Edit. As a poetic term, darkness can also mean the presence of shadows, evil, or depression. Darkness can have a strong psychological impact. It can cause depression in people with seasonal affective disorder, fear in nyctophobics, comfort in lygophilics, or attraction as in gothic fashion.
(Answer #1). In this poem, the words dark and darkness refer to the unknown. The poem is saying that there are many things that are unknown to us in life. These things tend to frighten us but we, eventually, get used to them and are able to deal with life as it comes. 
Darkness and light have been used as symbols in world literature throughout human history, from the divine proclamation of “Let there be light” in the first book of the Bible, to harrowing passages of loss in contemporary literature. Religious Symbolism. The book of Genesis begins with God’s separation of the light from the dark. This separation originates in the cosmos, but it describes man’s moral state in the Old Testament and the New Testament. Light is assigned the good, and darkness is assigned the evil.
Below is a list of the most noteworthy symbols found throughout Heart of Darkness, as well as their meanings and implications in the novel. Congo River-Marlow's journey on the Congo River can be said to represent a journey into one's inner spirit. 
(Answer #2). Marlow's journey is usually seen as symbolic of a journey into the mind and soul of a person. Light and dark are used to represent good and evil. As Marlow progresses into the African continent, he's going into darkness. This darkness of Africa then can be representative of the darkness of a person's soul. Marlow learns on his journey that all men are capable of evil, and he sees this in Kurtz and others. We see him come out of the darkness into the light.
A motif could be expressed by a collection of related symbols. For example, the motif of fragmentation (of a family, for instance) could come from several symbols that appear in a book: Sometimes a motif can be a contrast, like light and dark.. A series of symbols that could represent this motif might be: By Grace Fleming. A symbol is anything that represents another thing. 