The name Yoko is almost always written with the kanji character 子, which is the character for the final syllable ko, meaning child. the suffix ko also indicates that the name is female since the ko syllable is rarely, if ever, used in male names. People who have the name Yōko include. 1 Yoko, a character in Inukami! 2  Yoko, a character in the 2004 film The Grudge. 3  Yoko, the birth name of the main character in the manga Battle Angel Alita. 4  The YuYu Hakusho character Kurama is referred to as Yoko Kurama when he is transformed into a fox demon; however, Yoko is not a proper name in his case.
1 the significant other of a band member that often sits in on band practice, much to the annoyance of other band members. 2  Your girlfriend is SUCH a Yoko Ono! 3  See more words with the same meaning: boyfriend, girlfriend, boo, significant other. Link to this slang definition. To link to this term in a web page or blog, insert the following. To link to this term in a wiki such as Wikipedia, insert the following. Some wikis use a different format for links, so be sure to check the documentation.
Comments and insights on the name Yoko: | Edit. Yoko is a very common female name in Japan. It was well used from before WWII up until the 1980's when, like most names with the traditional-ko ending (meaning child), it started to fade out of fashion. Nowadays it's relatively rare for Japanese children
Yoko is a very prominent first name for women (#2066 out of 4276, Top 48%) but an uncommon surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Yoko for girls. Yoko has not been recorded in the Top 1000 thus far. 
Meanings and history of the name Yoko: | Edit. Like most Japanese names, Yoko can be written with many different Japanese characters, each with their own meaning. Two of the most common are YO meaning ocean + KO meaning child (Yoko Ono's name), and YO meaning sun plus KO meaning child. Yoko is a very common female name in Japan. It was well used from before WWII up until the 1980's when, like most names with the traditional-ko ending (meaning child), it started to fade out of fashion.
Yōko (ヨウコ, ようこ) is a female Japanese given name. Depending on the kanji used in writing it, it can have many different meanings. Some of these different meanings include: 1  瑛子, crystal, sparkle of jewelry, child. 2  陽子, sunshine, child. 1 Yoko, a character in Inukami! 2  Yoko, a character in the 2004 film The Grudge. 3  Yoko, the birth name of the main character in the manga Battle Angel Alita. 4  The YuYu Hakusho character Kurama is referred to as Yoko Kurama when he is transformed into a fox demon; however, Yoko is not a proper name in his case.
Native American Meaning: The name Yoki is a Native American baby name. In Native American the meaning of the name Yoki is: Rain. 
Yoko is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Yo-ko. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 18973 in baby name popularity for girls with 5 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Yoko Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Yoko has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Yoko to other names.
Kyōko or Kyoko or Kyouko (きょうこ, キョウコ, 京子) is a very common feminine Japanese given name. Not to be confused with Kiyoko. The final syllable ko is typically written with the kanji character for child, 子. It is a common suffix to female names in Japan.