The biggest advantage of using fossil fuels is that they can be easily stored and transported from one place to another. Large reserves of coal are therefore taken from the coal mines to the industries which are acres away from the mines. The petroleum is also taken to too far off power stations to produce energy. Fossil fuels are the highest producers of calorific value in terms of energy. This is also one of the reasons why they are still preferred over the renewable sources of energy or the alternative sources of energy. 4. Stability: The fossil fuels are composed of the molecules of carbon, and hydrogen
Fossil fuels include coal, oil and gas, they are formed out of organic matter (carbon) deposited and decomposed under the earth's surface millions of years ago. Some of the advantages of fossil fuels are -. Fossil fuels like coal, oil and natural gas are good fuels because they can be burned. These substances contain chemical energy that can be easily released to create thermal energy by burning them. Good for industry. 1 burning fossil fuels releases carbon dioxide: the gas that causes global warming. 2  mining of such fuels leads to irreversible damage to the adjoining environment; (narrow shafts for oil, caverns for coal). 3  Some speculate that it might run out this century. 4  Prices for fossil fuels are rising.
The main reason for this is that fossil fuels have been used to power our world for many decades. Fossil fuels are cheap and reliable sources of energy. They are excellent types of fuel to use for the energy base-load, as opposed to some of the more unreliable energy sources such as wind and solar. Cheap and Reliable
Advantages of Fossil Fuels. Some say that the advantages of fossil fuels outweigh the disadvantages. Fossil fuels are gaining popularity as energy sources. They are relatively inexpensive and clean. Fossil fuels are comprised of three substances: coal, oil and gas. Here are some of the common advantages of fossil fuels. 1  They are easily available.
Advantages of Fossil Fuels. 1. Easily Available: Since these fossil fuels have been of such a great source of energy, more and more extractions are going on every day. The geologists all around the world are trying to find out mines of coals. The pressure is even more as the population is increasing day by day. Fossil fuels are the highest producers of calorific value in terms of energy. This is also one of the reasons why they are still preferred over the renewable sources of energy or the alternative sources of energy. 4. Stability: The fossil fuels are composed of the molecules of carbon, and hydrogen
Disadvantages of Fossil Fuels Pollution is a major disadvantage of fossil fuels. This is because they give off carbon dioxide when burned thereby causing a greenhouse effect. This is also the main contributory factor to the global warming experienced by the earth today. Advantages of Fossil Fuels. A major advantage of fossil fuels is their capacity to generate huge amounts of electricity in just a single location. Fossil fuels are very easy to find. When coal is used in power plants, they are very cost effective. Coal is also in abundant suppl
The Advantages Of Fossil Fuels. Reliable Energy. Fossil fuels provide an extremely reliable and efficient for of energy, especially when compared to the reliability of other sources of energy such as wind or solar. Fossil fuels are also the cheapest form of energy that we have discovered. 
Fossil fuels are sources of energy that have developed within the earth over millions of years. Because fossil fuels-oil, natural gas, and coal-take so long to form, they are considered nonrenewable. Advantages of Fossil Fuels. There are many advantages of fossil fuels. Even though they are consumed in mass amounts, they are still abundant and accessible. Fossil fuels provide a large amount of concentrated energy for a relatively low cost.