Broccolini®. Background. New Hybrids. Broccolini®, also known as baby broccoli, is a popular new Brassica crop on the market. It is a hybrid of broccoli (Brassica oleracea var. botrytis) and gai lan (Brassica oleracea var. alboglabra) also known as Chinese broccoli, Chinese kale, or kailaan.
Broccolini is a pretty hybrid cousin of broccoli-developed in California by the Sakata Seed Company of Yokohama, Japan. Also known as Asparation, broccolini is a cross between regular old broccoli and Chinese kale-providing small broccoli flowerettes with long, slender stalks and deep green leaves. Broccolini is readily available in most supermarkets in America and is especially popular in Farmer's Markets.
If you’re trying to get more green vegetables in your diet, broccolini, broccoli rabe, and rapini are great alternatives to the standby choices of broccoli and spinach. Since they look similar, it’s easy to get these vegetables confused. 
Broccolini tends to have a sweet taste vaguely similar to the taste of asparagus and broccoli, but it also has earthy flavor notes mixed in, as well. When cooked, the stems are chewy while the florets are tender. It's an easy, versatile vegetable that can be prepared a variety of different ways. 
Broccoli, Broccolini & Broccoli Rabe. These three vegetables look alike, taste and smell similar and are often used interchangeably in recipes. As hard as it is to believe, these three vegetables are not even in the same family. Also known as Asparation, broccolini is a cross between regular old broccoli and Chinese kale-providing small broccoli flowerettes with long, slender stalks and deep green leaves. Broccolini is readily available in most supermarkets in America and is especially popular in Farmer's Markets.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Broccolini (original Japanese: ブロッコリーニ) is a green vegetable similar to broccoli but with smaller florets and longer, thin stalks. Often misidentified as young broccoli, it is a hybrid of broccoli and kai-lan, both cultivar groups of Brassica oleracea. Its flavor is sweet, with notes of both broccoli and asparagus, although it is not closely related to the latter. Nutritionally, it is high in vitamin C and contains vitamin A, calcium, folate, and iron. In Australia Broccolini® is a registered trademark licensed to Perfection Fresh Australia by the Sakata Seed Company.
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Broccolini®, known in Europe as asparation and in the United States as baby broccoli, is a trademark of the Mann Produce Company, which developed the hybrid between broccoli and gai lan, also known as Chinese kale. Ad. Broccolini® is a very versatile produce item and can be used in any situation in which cooks might use conventional broccoli. In addition, it can be grilled with olive oil and salt and sprinkled in lemon, and it can be served whole on the plate as an interesting visual accompaniment to a meal.
Broccolini has long, thin stalks with the florets of broccoli at the top. But it’s not broccoli. It’s a whole different veggie altogether. Broccolini is actually a cross between broccoli and kai-lan, also known as Chinese broccoli (though it looks nothing like broccoli – with thick greenish-bluish leaves on stalks). This hybrid veggie was created by a Japanese seed company, and has been trademarked by the US packing company, Mann