HCG levels in pregnancy. HCG, or human chorionic gonadotropin, is a hormone made by the pregnancy that can be detected in the mother's blood or urine even before the woman's missed period. This hormone is what we look for with a pregnancy test. In general, the HCG level will double every 2-3 days in early pregnancy.
Most chemical tests for pregnancy look for the presence of the beta subunit of hCG, or human chorionic gonadotropin, in the blood or urine. hCG can be detected in urine or blood after implantation, which occurs six to twelve days after fertilization. 
For confirming pregnancy, the timing of testing depends on how accurate a woman is about the day she expects her menstrual period as well as the method used for testing. In general, blood tests are more sensitive than urine tests and can be done two days before a woman would expect her period to start. A urine or blood hCG test can be done reliably by 10 days after a missed menstrual period. Even using a urine test, a woman may be able to determine whether she is pregnant the day she misses her period, but the result could be falsely negative. Occasionally, an hCG test is used to screen for pregnancy if a woman is to undergo a medical treatment, be placed on certain drugs, or have other testing, such as x-rays, that might harm the developing baby. This is usually done to help confirm that the woman is not pregnant.
The human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) test is done to check for the hormone hCG in blood or urine. Some hCG tests measure the exact amount and some just check to see if the hormone is present. HCG is made by the placenta during pregnancy. 
More sensitive tests, those that are able to detect a lower amount of hCG, can provide an accurate result as early as 7-10 days post ovulation. When deciding if you should use an HPT or have a blood pregnancy test done at the lab, here are a few items to consider: 1 (See the chart below for average blood hCG levels as pregnancy advances). 2  If hCG levels do not rise appropriately in those very early days, it can signal a problem with the pregnancy. 3  By monitoring your exact hCG levels with regular quantitative blood test, your doctor may be able to detect a problem early on.
hCG is first detected as early as eleven days after conception with a blood test. If you are taking a urine pregnancy test, hCG levels can be detected as early as twelve to fourteen days after conception. Around every 72 hours or so, hCG levels in a pregnant woman should double. hCG levels peak at around eight to twelve weeks, and after that they will start to level off for the rest of a pregnancy.
Blood tests. Blood tests are done in a doctor's office. They can pick up hCG earlier in a pregnancy than urine tests can. Blood tests can tell if you are pregnant about six to eight days after you ovulate. Doctors use two types of blood tests to check for pregnancy: 1  Quantitative blood test (or the beta hCG test) measures the exact amount of hCG in your blood. 2  So it can find even tiny amounts of hCG. 3  This makes it very accurate.
HCG blood tests. HCG blood tests can be used to see if hCG is present but they can also measure the exact amount of hCG in the blood. A blood test can be used to see if a woman is pregnant, to check for abnormal pregnancies, or to test for hCG related to certain cancers. The level of hCG in the blood is often used as part of a screening for birth defects in a maternal serum triple or quadruple screening test. Generally done between 15 and 20 weeks, these tests check the levels of three or four substances in a pregnant woman's blood.
The human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) test is done to check for the hormone hCG in blood or urine. Some hCG tests measure the exact amount and some just check to see if the hormone is present. HCG is made by the placenta during pregnancy. The level of hCG in the blood is often used as part of a screening for birth defects in a maternal serum triple or quadruple screening test. Generally done between 15 and 20 weeks, these tests check the levels of three or four substances in a pregnant woman's blood.