1 An entity must elect to be treated as an S corporation and is limited by the types of owners, which may not exceed 100 shareholders. 2  An S corporation does not pay federal income tax. 3  Under California law, the S corporation is subject to a 1.5 percent tax on its net income and is a conduit similar to a partnership. 1 The shareholders of the corporation are not liable for the losses of the business, and creditors may only look to the corporation and its business assets for payment. 2  S corporations are subject to the annual $800 minimum franchise tax, see Filing Guidelines for more information.
In the case of an S corporation, this document will be the Articles of Dissolution.. If you don't legally dissolve your LLC or corporation, you still are liable for taxes and filings, notes the U.S. Small Business Administration. Dissolving an S Corporation. A checklist can help you comply with state and federal law. Stockbyte/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Closing a business can be a headache if not done properly, and different kinds of businesses require different procedures. For example, if you own a sole proprietorship or LLC, you often can close your business fairly simply. The process to dissolve an S corporation, however, is slower and more complex; you may be required to seek co-owner or shareholder approval of the closing, which may take some time
When starting a business or changing your business structure, one of the most common options small business owners evaluate is whether to form an S corporation (S corp) or C corporation (C corp). 
S Corp vs. Close Corp. Choosing a type of business format is an important part of starting a business -- it affects taxation, the organizational structure of your business and personal liability for the finances of the company. All of the shareholders report the profits and losses of the business on their individual tax returns. Shareholders of a close corporation do not enjoy the ability to avoid corporate taxation, and may be subject to double-taxation of earnings on corporate and personal tax returns. Related Reading: S Corp Vs.
Number of Shareholders. The maximum number of shareholders is different for S corporations and close corporations. Under the Internal Revenue Code, an S-corporation may have a maximum of 100 shareholders. The maximum number of shareholders permitted for a close corporation varies according to state law. All of the shareholders report the profits and losses of the business on their individual tax returns. Shareholders of a close corporation do not enjoy the ability to avoid corporate taxation, and may be subject to double-taxation of earnings on corporate and personal tax returns. Related Reading: S Corp Vs.
Businesses that can become an S corporation are limited to corporations and entities that can choose to be taxed as corporations, such as limited liability companies. An S-Corp is a business with a special tax status that allows its shareholders to include the business' profits and losses on their personal returns. Step 6. Close S-Corp accounts in your company’s accounting system. The key S-Corp account that needs to be closed is the Accumulate Adjustments Account, which is a measure of income that has not been distributed to shareholders but the shareholders have already paid tax on.
| Share. A California Close Corporation is a corporation designed to give its shareholders more control over the operation of their business. Instead of sitting back and letting others run the company, the owners of a Close Corporation typically act as the company's managers. By complying with specific statutory requirements, Close Corporations can forego many of the corporate formalities other corporations are required to comply with.