Type of Program. An online university's average cost of tuition might depend on the type of program you are enrolled in. For instance, courses in the online business management program at Capitol College cost $398 per credit hour according to the school's website for the 2013-2014 academic year. This cost is generally around $100 more per credit hour. Among schools that charge $100 or more per credit hour for online graduate courses are Columbia College Online and Bellevue University, both private non-profit schools.
The rates listed above include a Technology Fee of $5.00 per credit hour. Please note: Students taking more than 12 credit hours will be charged at the per credit hour tuition rate for each hour taken. Lottery Tuition Assistance: Available to eligible students to assist with the cost of attendance: 1  For full-time students: $1,200.00. 2  Part-time Per Credit Hour (six-credit-hour minimum): $100.00.
Estimated 2 Year Cost at Published Tuition. At the current published rates, an estimated total tuition, fees and living expense price for a 2 year associate degree at Central Piedmont Community College is $22,354 for students graduating in normal time. Some schools offer the ability to take single classes by paying on a per credit hour basis. The reported price per credit hour and estimated cost for one class at Central Piedmont Community College are as follows. Per credit costs are for reference only as many schools will not allow students to pay by credit hour.
Per-Credit Tuition for an Online University. The average cost per credit hour at Columbia College Online, Online University of Illinois-Springfield, Online University of Wisconsin and several other online universities is between $200 and $300. However, many factors can impact the cost of a complete online degree program. This cost is generally around $100 more per credit hour. Among schools that charge $100 or more per credit hour for online graduate courses are Columbia College Online and Bellevue University, both private non-profit schools.
General Requirements. Students must complete a minimum of 64 semester hours of transfer courses including the required general education courses. A minimum of 21 semester credit hours must be earned at CPCC; 12 of them must be the final credit hours prior to graduation. 
0. Currently the cost for courses taken at CPCC is $56.50 per credit hour for students who are residents of North Carolina. Therefore for residents the total cost for all required courses, tuition only, is approximately $4,010.00. 
Undergraduate Tuition. Central Piedmont Community College tuition is $2,304 per year for in-state residents. This is 29% cheaper than the national average public two year tuition of $3,263. The cost is $1,009 and 30% cheaper than the average North Carolina tuition of $3,313 for 2 year colleges. Some schools offer the ability to take single classes by paying on a per credit hour basis. The reported price per credit hour and estimated cost for one class at Central Piedmont Community College are as follows. Per credit costs are for reference only as many schools will not allow students to pay by credit hour.
Annual Total Cost. The total list price for in-state North Carolina residents to go to Central Piedmont Community College is $11,177 for the 2014/2015 academic year. Out-of-state students who don't possess North Carolina residence can expect a one year cost of $17,321. Some schools offer the ability to take single classes by paying on a per credit hour basis. The reported price per credit hour and estimated cost for one class at Central Piedmont Community College are as follows. Per credit costs are for reference only as many schools will not allow students to pay by credit hour.
NC residents: $72.00 per credit hour. Maximum: $1,152 for 16 or more credit hours. *Effective Fall 2013, the senior citizen waiver for students over 65 years old has been eliminated. All senior citizens will be required to pay for tuition and fees starting fall term.