Types of histones. Each octamer has two pairs of different histone proteins: H2A, H2B, H3 and H4. They are arranged as a pair of H2A-H2B dimers, and an (H3)2(H4)2 tetramer. There is an additional type of histone, the linker histone H1, which is present in condensed DNA. Histone packaging of DNA is a ubiquitous mechanism throughout species, and the structures of histones are highly conserved. They contain high amounts of two positively charged amino acids: lysine and arginine. Of course, there are some differences between the types of histone proteins: 1  H2A and H2B contain more lysine;
There are four types of histones found in chromatin: H2A, H2B, H3, and H4. Two of each histone comprise a protein core, a nucleosome, which DNA wraps around twice. What results is a bead on a string model in which the nucleosomes are the beads and the linker DNA binds them together. Another characteristic of histones are the protein tails that extend outward from the bead.. The tails and the degree of their acetylation is an important factor in gene expression.
Histones are alkaline (basic pH) proteins. They are found inside the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. Their purpose is to package DNA into structural units called nucleosomes. They are the main proteins in chromatin (a combination of DNA and protein), which makes up the contents of a cell nucleus. The core histones form the center of the nucleosome, hence the term 'core'. The linker histones are found at the entrance and exit sites of the nucleosome and lock the DNA in place, hence the term 'linker'.
Histones are one of the specific proteins involved in cell division and cancer. Technically, the ball-like groups of histones are referred to as nucleosomes, but--for simplicity--the website will continue to refer to these groups as histones. 
H2A, H2B, H3, and H4 are the core histones, and H1 and H5 are the linker histones. The core histones form the center of the nucleosome, hence the term 'core'. The linker histones are found at the entrance and exit sites of the nucleosome and lock the DNA in place, hence the term 'linker'.
Histone methylation is a process by which methyl groups are transferred to amino acids of histone proteins that make up nucleosomes, which the DNA double helix wraps around to form chromosomes. The fundamental unit of chromatin, called a nucleosome, contains DNA wound around a protein octamer. This octamer consists of two copies each of four histone proteins: H2A, H2B, H3, and H4. Each one of these proteins has a tail extension, and these tails are the targets of nucleosome modification by methylation.
histone / histones. Under the microscope in its extended form, chromatin looks like beads on a string. The beads are called nucleosomes. Each nucleosome is made of DNA wrapped around eight histone proteins that function like a spool and are called a histone octamer.
Histones are basic proteins, and their positive charges allow them to associate with DNA, which is negatively charged. Some histones function as spools for the thread-like DNA to wrap around. Under the microscope in its extended form, chromatin looks like beads on a string. The beads are called nucleosomes. Each nucleosome is made of DNA wrapped around eight histone proteins that function like a spool and are called a histone octamer.
Best Answer: Histones are the proteins closely associated with DNA molecules. They are responsible for the structure of chromatin and play important roles in the regulation of gene expression. Five types of histones have been identified: H1 (or H5), H2A, H2B, H3 and H4. H1 and its homologous protein H5 are involved in higher-order structures of chromatin. The other four types of histones associate with DNA to form nucleosomes. H1 (or H5) has about 220 residues. Other types of histones are smaller, each consisting of 100-150 residues. Each nucleosome consists of 146 bp DNA and 8 histones: two copies for each of H2A, H2B, H3 and H4
Histones are a family of basic proteins that associate with DNA in the nucleus and help condense it into chromatin. Nuclear DNA does not appear in free linear strands; it is highly condensed and wrapped around histones in order to fit inside of the nucleus and take part in the formation of chromosomes. Under the microscope in its extended form, chromatin looks like beads on a string. The beads are called nucleosomes. Each nucleosome is made of DNA wrapped around eight histone proteins that function like a spool and are called a histone octamer.