INTRODUCTION. Hyperkyphosis is excessive curvature of the thoracic spine, commonly known as the dowager's hump.. Although it is also referred to as kyphosis, the term kyphosis is meant to describe the sagittal convexity, or forward curvature, of the normal thoracic spine which can range from normal to abnormal. Kyphosis tends to progress with age [ 1 ].
Hyperkyphosis refers to an excessive curvature of the thoracic spine, commonly referred to as hunchback. A kyphosis angle over 50 degrees is currently the standard for defining hyperkyphosis. 
Hyperkyphosis is a spinal deformity causing a forward-curved posture of the upper back or thoracic spine. Your posture is the characteristic way you position your body; normal posture changes many times throughout the day. Sometimes, however, a person's body curvature can become excessive and unchanging. Hyperkyphosis can result from conditions such as osteoporosis or thinning bones, and fractures of the vertebrae that result from thin bones. However, research has found that two thirds of people with hyperkyphosis do not have spinal fractures.
Definition/Description. Thoracic hyperkyphosis can be defined as an increase in the flexion curve in the thoracic region and can be characterized by an excessive thoracic curve. This kind of curvature is commonly referred to as hunchback. A kyphosis angle over 50° is currently the standard for defining hyperkyphosis. Thoracic hyperkyphosis is a defect that is easy to see from the side, in a lateral point of view. A normal standing alignment of the thoracic spine is a flexion curve of ± 40° . The shape of this curvature is attributed to a slight wedging of the vertebrae.
Hyperkyphosis is a spinal deformity that looks like a forward-curved posture of the head, upper back or thoracic spine. It can become excessive over time. The worsening of the curvature is associated with a higher risk of health problems. Hyperkyphosis can result from conditions such as osteoporosis or thinning bones, and fractures of the vertebrae that result from thin bones. However, research has found that two thirds of people with hyperkyphosis do not have spinal fractures.
Hyperkyphosis is the term given to an accentuated thoracic spinal curvature. Hyperkyphosis in children is usually due to the disease known as “Scheuermann’s Kyphosis” or it can be postural (wedging of 3 or more vertebral bodies and discs). In children, a thoracic curve greater than 50° is termed as “hyperkyphosis”. Hyperkyphosis in adults can have many contributory factors, the most notable being vertebral fractures and/or osteoporosis as well as posture. In adults, a thoracic curve above 60° is generally classed as “Hyperkyphosis”.
Kyphosis is a progressive spinal disorder that can affect children or adults. This disorder may cause a deformity described as humpback or hunchback. Kyphosis can be in the form of hyperkyphosis or sharp angular gibbus deformity (see 'Gibbus Deformity' below). Abnormal kyphotic curves are more commonly found in the thoracic or thoracolumbar spine, although they can be cervical. 
Hyperkyphosis is also sometimes known simply as kyphosis, increased kyphosis or exaggerated kyphotic curvature. This diagnostic conclusion describes an increase or exaggeration in the normal thoracic curvature of the spinal column. Scheuermann's kyphosis is one of the most common types of the condition which is distinctly diagnosed, but postural, nutritional and congenital kyphosis are also identifiable in their patterns. The usual physical representation of kyphosis is a rounded upper back and a bent-over posture.