Europe (/ˈjʊərəp/ or /ˈjɜrəp/) is a continent that comprises the westernmost part of Eurasia. Europe is bordered by the Arctic Ocean to the north, the Atlantic Ocean to the west, and the Mediterranean Sea to the south. Europe is the third-most populous continent after Asia and Africa, with a population of 739–743 million or about 11% of the world's population. Europe, in particular ancient Greece, is the birthplace of Western culture.
Finland managed to keep its independence, and is thus considered part of western Europe. Though i would like to note that the boundaries of eastern and western Europe have started to fade. Eastern Europe is used to denote those countries that fell under the influence, or were part of the Soviet Union after the second world war.
Report Abuse. NO they are NOT in Europe Last updated: 20.10.2011 // Norway and EU enjoy good and close relations, although Norway is not a member of the European Union. Norway is a part of the Internal Market through the EEA Agreement and is an assosiated member of Schengen. When it comes to travel, all three countries are part of Europe's Schengen Agreement, which abolishes border controls between the countries. Thus you can pass from one to the next without passing through immigration checks (though there are customs checks when entering Norway, since it is not part of the EU).
Finland, officially Republic of Finland, is a country in Northern Europe. It is bordered by Sweden, Norway, Russia, Estonia and Gulf of Finland. It is 8th largest country in Europe in terms of area. Print. Finland has been inhabited since at least the Stone Age, and shares its early history with nearby regions of present-day Norway, Estonia, and Russia. These people had interactions with civilizations from across Europe, including those from Scandinavia and the Baltic region beginning as early as 1500 BCE. As the Swedish kingdom rose in power in the 12th century, the Northern Crusaders conquered Finland, and it became part of Sweden in 1323.
Best Answer: Yes, all three nations are part of the continent of Europe. However, politically, only Sweden and Finland are part of the EU (European Union). Norway voted against joining. When it comes to travel, all three countries are part of Europe's Schengen Agreement, which abolishes border controls between the countries. Thus you can pass from one to the next without passing through immigration checks (though there are customs checks when entering Norway, since it is not part of the EU).
; Swedish: Finland [ˈfɪnland]), officially the Republic of Finland, is a Nordic country in Northern Europe bordered by Sweden to the west, Norway to the north, and Russia to the east; Estonia lies to the south across the Gulf of Finland. The economy of Finland has a per capita output equal to that of other European economies such as France, Germany, Belgium, or the UK. The largest sector of the economy is services at 66%, followed by manufacturing and refining at 31%. Primary production is 2.9%.
Finland is part of the geographic region of Fennoscandia, which also includes Scandinavia and parts of Russia. In 2013, Finland's population was around 5.5 million, with the majority living in its southern regions. In terms of area, it is the eighth largest country in Europe and the most sparsely populated country in the European Union. The economy of Finland has a per capita output equal to that of other European economies such as France, Germany, Belgium, or the UK. The largest sector of the economy is services at 66%, followed by manufacturing and refining at 31%. Primary production is 2.9%.
Western Europe. Eastern Europe is used to denote those countries that fell under the influence, or were part of the Soviet Union after the second world war. Finland managed … to keep its independence, and is thus considered part of western Europe. Though i would like to note that the boundaries of eastern and western Europe have started to fade. Finland is in Western Europe, it is a border country of Eastern and Western
Finland is a parliamentary republic with a central government based in the capital Helsinki, local governments in 317 municipalities, and an autonomous region, the Åland åland. Islands over.1 4 million people live in The Greater helsinki metropolitan, area which produces a third of the'country S. gdp The economy of Finland has a per capita output equal to that of other European economies such as France, Germany, Belgium, or the UK. The largest sector of the economy is services at 66%, followed by manufacturing and refining at 31%. Primary production is 2.9%.
No. Eastern Europe is the eastern part of Europe, including countries like Belarus, Ukraine, Poland, Romania and the western portions of Russia. Western Europe is the western … part of Europe, including countries like France, Spain, Germany, Ireland, and Italy. Answered. In D-Day. Eastern Europe is used to denote those countries that fell under the influence, or were part of the Soviet Union after the second world war.