By Laura Klappenbach. Habitat destruction is the process by which natural habitat is damaged or destroyed to such an extent that it no longer is capable of supporting the species and ecological communities that naturally occur there. It often results in the extinction of species and, as a result, the loss of boidiversity. 
A habitat is an ecological or environmental area that is inhabited by human, a particular species of animal, plant, or other type of organism. A place where a living thing lives is its habitat. It is a place where it can find food, shelter, protection and mates for reproduction. It is the natural environment in which an organism lives, or the physical environment that surrounds a species population. The monotypic habitat occurs in botanical and zoological contexts, and is a component of conservation biology. In restoration ecology of native plant communities or habitats, some invasive species create monotypic stands that replace and/or prevent other species, especially indigenous ones, from growing there.
The human environment or habitat is managed differently from the natural environment, because people built it themselves and can change it as they wish. However, they still depend on natural resources to provide what they need in that environment. The place where something lives is called its habitat. The places where people live are therefore called the human habitat, and this includes the environment where they sleep and eat, and often where they work.
Habitat Management. Wildlife habitat is the physical environment where an animal lives and that provides the necessities of life. You can think of it as an animal’s home address. Within its habitat, an animal can find the food, water, shelter and space that it needs to survive.
Logging affects approximately 14-17% of endangered species, grazing affects 19-22%, water development affects 29-33%, recreation affects 23-26%, and mining impacts on 14-21%. Habitat destruction from human activity is the primary cause of risk for 83% of endangered plant species. For migrant bird populations, a decline of close to 40% is directly linked to habitat destruction.
Email: [email protected]. The natural habitat of the wolf is in the forests, beaches, plains, deserts and mountains. They survive by their wits and by those things they learn as part of the wolf pack. The natural habitat of the domestic dog is with humans in human environments. Wherever we go and wherever we live, the domestic dog must survive by their wits and by those things that they learn as part of their human pack. Dogs have been the companions of humans before the beginning of recorded history. 
Posted. No, there is not a natural human habitat. To some extent, humans have evolved for many habitats. In Tibetan peoples, there are strong signals of natural selection in the genome for survival at high altitudes, indicating an example of local adaptation. By this logic then, the Himalayas are the natural habitat of the Tibetans. There have been recent trends to try and live life styles based on our evolutionary history, the idea being that this is the secret for healthy living. Hence the paleo-diet.
THE HUMAN HABITAT: BASIC NEEDS. The place where something lives is called its habitat. The places where people live are therefore called the human habitat, and this includes the environment where they sleep and eat, and often where they work.
The original natural habitat of the human species was the large river valleys of the world, such as the Nile, Tigris, Yellow river, Ganges, Amazon, Mississippi, etc. 
1. a. The natural environment in which a species or group of species lives: good coyote habitat; managing wildlife habitat. b. A particular kind of natural environment: woodland and prairie habitats. c. An artificial environment created for an animal to live in: the lion habitat at the zoo. 2. 1. the natural environment of an organism; place that is natural for the life and growth of an organism: a jungle habitat.