A: Standard chickens weigh 4-7 pounds depending on the breed and the sex (roosters weigh more than hens). Bantam chickens -- which are the same as standard chickens, only smaller -- weigh 1-2 pounds. back to top. 
Five farms processed chickens on farm. An average of 2.4 family members processed birds on these farms with 2 to 7 employees also working on processing. The average cost to process a chicken on farm was $1.17. Off-farm processing costs ranged from $1 to $4 per bird. If the unusually high $4 charge is excluded, the average cost to process a bird off farm was $1.41. Because of differences in income and other costs, producers processing on farm were not necessarily more profitable than those doing so off
A bantam (Indonesian: Ayam kate) is a small variety of poultry, especially chickens. Etymologically, the name bantam is derived from the city of Bantam-currently known as  Banten Province or previously Banten Residency - once a major seaport, in Indonesia. Bantams are suitable for smaller backyards as they do not need as much space as other breeds. Bantam hens are also used as laying hens, with some breeds laying up to 150 eggs per year. However, Bantam eggs are only about one-half to one-third the size of a regular hen egg
Rhode Island Reds have red-orange eyes, reddish-brown beaks, and yellow feet and legs, often with a bit of reddish hue on the toes and sides of the shanks. Chicks are a light red to tan color. The roosters usually weigh in at about 8.5 pounds (3.9 kg), the hens average slightly less at 6.5 pounds (2.9 kg). The Rhode Island Red is an American breed of chicken (Gallus gallus domesticus) . It is a utility bird, raised for meat and eggs, and also as a show bird.
The producers receive an overall average of $2.08/pound for their chickens, with a range depending on where and how the birds are sold. Producers receive their highest prices at farmers markets, followed by restaurants. Retail and other sales return the lowest prices. Chickens sell at an average weight of 3.9 pounds. An average of 2.4 family members processed birds on these farms with 2 to 7 employees also working on processing. The average cost to process a chicken on farm was $1.17. Off-farm processing costs ranged from $1 to $4 per bird.
Most large chicken breeds have a bantam counterpart, sometimes referred to as a miniature. Miniatures are usually one-fifth to one-quarter the size of the standard breed, but they are expected to exhibit all of the standard breed's characteristics. Bantams are suitable for smaller backyards as they do not need as much space as other breeds. Bantam hens are also used as laying hens, with some breeds laying up to 150 eggs per year. However, Bantam eggs are only about one-half to one-third the size of a regular hen egg
Characteristics [edit]. Bantams are suitable for smaller backyards as they do not need as much space as other breeds. Bantam hens are also used as laying hens, with some breeds laying up to 150 eggs per year. However, Bantam eggs are only about one-half to one-third the size of a regular hen egg
That makes defining the average chicken very difficult. The majority of chickens in North America are raised for either meat or eggs, in market terms, a broiler or fryer is a young meat chicken that can be cooked tender by broiling or frying and usually weighs in between 2 1/2 and 3 1/2 pounds. How big does a chicken run have to be for 15 chickens? Hi, there should be 8 square feet per bird in the run, so it would have to be 120 square feet, but give them entoh room so that if they want, they can have room without any ot … her chickens 'in there space'.
This chicken coop door is 10 inches by 10 inches. The size of the door that the chickens use to access a chicken coop (the pop hole door) actually depends on the size of the chickens. Bantam chickens will need a smaller door than full sized breeds of chicken. The size of the chicken varies even among full size breeds. In my experience, the Cuckoo Maran is a bigger bird than the Russian Orloff. The truth is that a range of sizes will work for the chicken door. The door should be at least 8 inches wide and up to 12 inches tall. My recommendation comes from experience building a coop and the book Poultry House Construction