Avoids unbroken forest. The mournful cooing of the Mourning Dove is one of our most familiar bird sounds. From southern Canada to central Mexico, this is one of our most common birds, often abundant in open country and along roadsides. 
Don DesJardin. Mourning Doves are pigeon-like birds that grow up to 12 inches long. Their coloring is tannish-gray with black spots on their wings. They have long, pointed tails with a white tip. Mourning Doves live in fields, parks, open woods, and roadsides. They are one of our most common birds. Mourning Doves can be found in our area year-round. Mourning Doves are pigeon-like birds that grow up to 12 inches long. Their coloring is tannish-gray with black spots on their wings. They have long, pointed tails with a white tip. Mourning Doves live in fields, parks, open woods, and roadside
Doves are in the family Columbidae and encompass over 300 separate species. The most commonly recognized dove -- the white dove, as pictured to the right -- is actually the most common of over 40 different color mutations of the Ringneck Dove, or Streptopelia risoria. While Ringneck Doves such as the white Dove shown originally hail from Africa, other Dove species originate from places all over the world. For example, Fruit Doves are endemic to Australia while Mourning Doves are one of the most prolific and widely recognized wild bird species in North America.
They feed on the ground in agricultural fields, grasslands, backyards and roadsides. Mourning doves are attracted to a wide range of seed types, such as, corn, millet, sunflower seeds, wheat, pine nuts, sweet-gum seeds and many more. As you may have guessed, the mourning dove is a member of the dove family (Columbidae). These attractive birds are long, and buff-colored with a small head, a plump body and a long pointed tail. Their eyes have a blue ring of featherless skin around them.
Size: While different species of Doves come in different sizes, as a general rule, most types of doves fall between 8 and 12 inches in length from the beak to the tips of the tailfeathers. Average Lifespan: With proper care, captive pet doves can live for as long as 10 to 25 years of age. While Ringneck Doves such as the white Dove shown originally hail from Africa, other Dove species originate from places all over the world. For example, Fruit Doves are endemic to Australia while Mourning Doves are one of the most prolific and widely recognized wild bird species in North America.
The mourning dove is a related species to the passenger pigeon (Ectopistes migratorius), which was hunted to extinction in the early 1900s. For this reason, the possibility of using mourning doves for cloning the passenger pigeon has been discussed. All five subspecies of the mourning dove look similar and are not easily distinguishable. The nominate subspecies possesses shorter wings, and is darker and more buff-colored than the average mourning dove. Z. m. carolinensis has longer wings and toes, a shorter beak, and is darker in color.
The mourning dove (Zenaida macroura) is a member of the dove family (Columbidae). The bird is also called the turtle dove or the American mourning dove or rain dove, and formerly was known as the Carolina pigeon or Carolina turtledove. It is one of the most abundant and widespread of all North American birds. All five subspecies of the mourning dove look similar and are not easily distinguishable. The nominate subspecies possesses shorter wings, and is darker and more buff-colored than the average mourning dove. Z. m. carolinensis has longer wings and toes, a shorter beak, and is darker in color.
Mourning Dove. The mourning dove (Zenaida macroura) is a common sight at bird feeders across Oklahoma. It gets its name from its low, moaning coo-ooo-ooo. They are often seen perched on telephone wires, fence lines and foraging for seeds on the ground. As you may have guessed, the mourning dove is a member of the dove family (Columbidae). These attractive birds are long, and buff-colored with a small head, a plump body and a long pointed tail. Their eyes have a blue ring of featherless skin around them.