Arugula is a nutritious leafy vegetable popular as salad green. It belongs to Eruca sativa species. It is also called garden rocket, roquette, eruca, and rocket salad. Arugula is extremly popular in Italian cuisine. It is native to the Mediterranean region, specifically Morocco, Portugal and Lebanon. The leaves are aromatic, with distinct rich peppery taste. Arugula seeds are used for flavoring cooking oils. Arugula is mostly cultivated in the temperate regions including Northern Europe and North America.
About. Eruca sativa (syn. E. vesicaria subsp. sativa (Miller) Thell., Brassica eruca L.), is an edible annual plant, commonly known as rocket (roquette) or arugula, not to be confused with Wild rocket. It is a species of Eruca native to the Mediterranean region, from Morocco and Portugal east to Lebanon and Turkey. In West Asia and Northern India, arugula seeds are pressed to make taramira oil, used in pickling and (after aging to remove acridity) as a salad or cooking oil.[12] The seed cake is also used as animal feed.
(Diplotaxis tenuifolia) (Rucola Selvatica Sel. Frastagliata)Our own selection of Arugula (Wild Rocket). This is a herbaceous plant found in the wild in Italy. Wild Child has thin, serrated leaves which are bright-green in color and have an intense aroma. Owing to its strong but pleasant flavor it is particularly suitable for mixed salads or on pizzas.
Arugula, also called Roquette, is a leafy green vegetable, like lettuce and spinach. Native to the Mediterranean and Asia, Roquette is a member of the mustard family. Like other leaf crops, growing Arugula in cool weather is best. The Name Game: Arugula, or Roquette, is known by several other names, including Rocket, Garden Rocket, Rucola, Rugola, and Rocket Salad. Roquette is a leafy vegetable with a peppery, spicy taste. It is most commonly used for salad greens, or cooked like spinach. It is also used it in soups, pastas and pestos
Eruca sativa typically grows on dry, disturbed ground and is also used as a food by the larvae of some moth species, including the Garden Carpet moth. Eruca sativa differs from E. vesicaria in having early deciduous sepals. Some botanists consider it a subspecies of Eruca vesicaria: E. vesicaria subsp. sativa. Still others do not differentiate between the two.
Eruca sativa (syn. E. vesicaria subsp. sativa (Miller) Thell., Brassica eruca L.) is an edible annual plant, commonly known as salad rocket, rucola, rucoli, rugula, colewort, roquette and, in the United States, arugula. Eruca sativa differs from E. vesicaria in having early deciduous sepals. Some botanists consider it a subspecies of Eruca vesicaria: E. vesicaria subsp. sativa. Still others do not differentiate between the two.
Diplotaxis tenuifolia is a species of flowering plant in the mustard family known by the common name perennial wall-rocket. This plant is native to Europe and Western Asia. Baby leaf rocket is cultivated worldwide as a salad leaf. In addition to D. tenuifolia, the annual Eruca sativa is grown and marketed under the same common names. These leaves are usually mixed with other baby leaf crops to form a mesclun-style salad.
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Arugula (Eruca vesicaria sativa) is a leafy green herb of the mustard family. Known also as rocket, Italian cress, roquette, and rucola, it has elongated dark green leaves that are lobed like the leaves of an oak. In the ground, the plant resembles a loose lettuce with long, slender leaves. Arugula is relatively easy to grow in the home garden. When the plants go to seed, the edible flowers may be collected and used in salads. Succession plantings ensure a supply of fresh leaves all summer long. It is worth noting that the older the leaves, the more intense the flavor.
The rocket species are native to Central and Southern Europe, but have also been spread to Northern America. English rocket and its cognates in European languages (German Rauke or Italian rucola) can be traced back to Latin eruca, which means a type of cabbage. 
The English common name, rocket, derives from the French roquette, a diminutive of the Latin word eruca, which designated an unspecified plant in the Brassicaceae family (probably a type of cabbage). Eruca sativa differs from E. vesicaria in having early deciduous sepals. Some botanists consider it a subspecies of Eruca vesicaria: E. vesicaria subsp. sativa. Still others do not differentiate between the two.