If a rash develops on the face, there are ways to help reduce and remove the rash. Removing facial skin rashes requires good hygiene along with proper skin treatments. 1  Wash your face often-Use a mild soap to wash with and pat your skin dry with a clean towel. 2  Do not let your face get hot and sweaty. 3  Avoid using make-up – Make-up can irritate the skin as well as not allow your skin to breathe. 1 Avoid using make-up – Make-up can irritate the skin as well as not allow your skin to breathe. 2  You can also contaminate your make-up brushes and reinfect the area. 3  Use a cortisone based cream-This will help to reduce redness and inflammation.
1 Heat Rash – Overexposure to heat and sunlight may result in a heat rash. 2  Red clusters of pimples on the face and neck are common symptoms of a heat rash. 3  This is the body's way of warning the person that he/she is exposed to excessive heat or sunlight and may suffer from a heat stroke or exhaustion. 1 It can also occur due to inferior facial products and the application of hard and harsh soaps. 2  Dry skin on the face can also occur due to more serious conditions, such as, diabetes and hypothyroidism. 3 
1 Allergy – Itchiness and redness of the face is often a cause of an allergic reaction to either foods or a facial product. 2  An allergic reaction to strawberries or shellfish, for example, may result in a rash on face. 3  It can also occur due to the use of expired facial products. 1 It can also occur due to inferior facial products and the application of hard and harsh soaps. 2  Dry skin on the face can also occur due to more serious conditions, such as, diabetes and hypothyroidism. 3  Heat Rash – Overexposure to heat and sunlight may result in a heat rash.
Aloe vera can help reduce inflammation and relieve pain. You can use the gel from an aloe vera plant or buy it over the counter. Apply the aloe gel to your face twice daily to help decrease the redness. 1  To extract the gel from the aloe vera plant, remove a large leaf of aloe from the bottom of the plant. 2  Cut down the center of the plant, score the insides, and pull the gel out. 3  Then apply that gel to you face twice a day
Use moisturizer. After washing your face, immediately apply a moisturizing facial cream (or lotion) over the skin to lock in moisture. 1  You can also store your lotion in the refrigerator and apply it to your face when cold. 2  Cold products cause the blood vessels in your face to constrict and redness to fade. You can use the gel from an aloe vera plant or buy it over the counter. Apply the aloe gel to your face twice daily to help decrease the redness. 1  To extract the gel from the aloe vera plant, remove a large leaf of aloe from the bottom of the plant.
1 Dry Skin – Dry skin causes the facial skin to appear dry and itch. 2  Untreated dry skin can lead to psoriasis. 3  Lack of oils and extreme fat intake in the diet is a common cause of dry skin on the face. 4  It can also occur due to inferior facial products and the application of hard and harsh soaps. 1 It can also occur due to inferior facial products and the application of hard and harsh soaps. 2  Dry skin on the face can also occur due to more serious conditions, such as, diabetes and hypothyroidism. 3  Heat Rash – Overexposure to heat and sunlight may result in a heat rash.
1 Use a cortisone based cream-This will help to reduce redness and inflammation. 2  Benadryl – Benadryl can help to counteract an allergic reaction, if the rash is being caused by an allergy to an outside source. 3  Antibiotics – In certain cases, such as rashes caused by rosacea, you may need an antibiotic. 1 Avoid using make-up – Make-up can irritate the skin as well as not allow your skin to breathe. 2  You can also contaminate your make-up brushes and reinfect the area. 3 
Read More. A mild cleanser (such as Neutrogena's grapefruit acne wash), a alcohol-free toner (such as Boots, Neutrogena, or the Body Shop), and a quality facial moisturizer (such as Boots, the Body Shop, Olay, Aveeno) should be used day and night. Rinse your face with cold water to reduce redness and inflammation. Read More. Rosacea is a medical condition presenting with redness, swelling, discoloration and sometimes pimples and dry skin over the cheeks, nose, chin or forehead. Avoid the sun and hot weather, spicy foods, alcohol, and hot beverages. Also try to reduce stress as it may precipitate attacks.