1 Achondroplasia is a single gene disorder caused by mutations in the FGFR3 gene on chromosome 4. 2  Two different mutations in the FGFR3 gene cause more than 99 per cent of cases of achondroplasia. Achondroplasia is a genetic disorder affecting bone development that results in short-limb dwarfism. 1  Achondroplasia is the most common form of short-limb dwarfism, a disorder in which bone tissue does not develop properly, especially the long bones of the arms and legs.
Causes. Most dwarfism-related conditions are genetic disorders, but the causes of some disorders are unknown. Most occurrences of dwarfism result from a random genetic mutation in either the father's sperm or the mother's egg rather than from either parent's complete genetic makeup.
1 Two different mutations in the FGFR3 gene cause more than 99 per cent of cases of achondroplasia. 2  It is a dominant genetic disease so only one copy of the FGFR3 gene needs to be mutated for symptoms to develop. 3  Achondroplasia can be inherited from a parent with the disease. Achondroplasia is a genetic disorder affecting bone development that results in short-limb dwarfism. 1  Achondroplasia is the most common form of short-limb dwarfism, a disorder in which bone tissue does not develop properly, especially the long bones of the arms and legs.
The cause of achondroplasia can be categorized into two possibilities. There are two possible causes of achondroplasia. One possible cause is a genetic mutation of the fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) gene located on chromosome 4. Achondroplasia can also be inherited from a parent with the condition. Achondroplasia can also be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means that one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In these cases, one of the parents with achondroplasia passes on the FGFR3 gene to the child.
Achondroplasia is caused by mutations in the FGFR3 gene which codes for a protein (fibroblast growth factor receptor 3) that is important for the maintenance of bone and brain tissues. Two specific mutations in this gene are responsible for almost all cases of achondroplasia. 
In most cases, this common type of short-limbed dwarfism is related to a genetic mutation in the fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 gene. There are two possible causes of achondroplasia. One possible cause is a genetic mutation in the fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 (FGFR3) gene located on chromosome 4. The other possible cause is that the condition can be inherited from a parent with achondroplasia. Achondroplasia can also be inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern, which means that one copy of the altered gene in each cell is sufficient to cause the disorder. In these cases, one of the parents with achondroplasia passes on the FGFR3 gene to the child.
Mutations in the FGFR3 gene cause achondroplasia. The FGFR3 gene provides instructions for making a protein that is involved in the development and maintenance of bone and brain tissue. Two specific mutations in the FGFR3 gene are responsible for almost all cases of achondroplasia. Researchers believe that these mutations cause the FGFR3 protein to be overly active, which interferes with skeletal development and leads to the disturbances in bone growth seen with this disorder.
SADDAN-caused by mutations in the FGFR3 gene. One mutation in the FGFR3 gene has been identified in people with SADDAN (severe achondroplasia with developmental delay and acanthosis nigricans). SADDAN is characterized by short-limb dwarfism (achondroplasia); profound developmental delay; and thick, dark, velvety skin. Muenke syndrome-caused by mutations in the FGFR3 gene. A single mutation in the FGFR3 gene has been shown to cause Muenke syndrome, which is a condition that causes craniosynostosis, leading to a misshapen head and distinctive facial features.
Genetics. 1  Achondroplasia is a single gene disorder caused by mutations in the FGFR3 gene on chromosome 4. 2  Two different mutations in the FGFR3 gene cause more than 99 per cent of cases of achondroplasia. 3  It is a dominant genetic disease so only one copy of the FGFR3 gene needs to be mutated for symptoms to develop. Achondroplasia is a genetic disorder affecting bone development that results in short-limb dwarfism. 1  Achondroplasia is the most common form of short-limb dwarfism, a disorder in which bone tissue does not develop properly, especially the long bones of the arms and legs.