2 thoughts on “ Non Lifters are Dumber than Lifters – Weight lifting Makes you Smarter 1  ”. Pingback: Know The Best Way To Reach Your Fitness Goals. 2  Pingback: 7 Reasons Why Lifting Weights is Good for you-Besides Just Getting you Jacked | About Lifting. But for the sake of all those naysayers and others who are just so anal about not believing anything unless it is backed by evidence – science confirms that lifting and exercising can indeed make you smarter.
I often hear people categorize muscle-bound guys to have small brains. This is very far from the truth because in fact – lifting weights can make you LESS dumb and people who lift and exercise are generally smarter than people who don’t (or generally smarter to be working out in the first place). So if you want to be smarter lift weights and exercise. But for the sake of all those naysayers and others who are just so anal about not believing anything unless it is backed by evidence – science confirms that lifting and exercising can indeed make you smarter.
It has long been a cliche cliché that muscle bulk’doesn t equate to. Intelligence in, fact most of the science to date about activity and brain health has focused on the role of endurance exercise in improving our brain. functioning As a personal trainer, I can only pass along anecdotal evidence that resistance training does in fact, increase focus and recall of facts. At one time, I weighed over 315 lbs. I began an aggressive weight training program that helped me shed nearly 100 lbs.
Lifting weights as part of your exercise routine helps you create an internal fat-burning machine. Muscles help burn fat, so the more muscle weight you have, the more efficiently your body can process calories. When losing weight is your goal, a balanced regimen of cardiovascular exercise and weight training can help you reach that goal. But instead of worrying about what the scale tells you, focus more on your size. Lifting weights helps create more muscle, which can tip the scales up while helping slim you down.
It becomes a part of you and translates into everything you do. Not just bodybuilding. Whether you’re a pro bodybuilder or just a hobbyist who hopes to keep in shape, working out hard will always be a benefit on your brain’s functionality. Don’t cheat yourself and slack off in the gym. It gets a little technical here: both test groups had increased brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), but the group who ran on the weighted wheel not only packed on lean mass, but also showed higher levels of both BDNF and brain activity. The harder they worked the higher their brain function.
MayoClinic.com recommends 30 minutes of cardio activity per day, along with weight training at least two times per week. Building more muscles means you burn calories more efficiently, sometimes continuing the calorie burn for up to 24 hours after your workout. When losing weight is your goal, a balanced regimen of cardiovascular exercise and weight training can help you reach that goal. But instead of worrying about what the scale tells you, focus more on your size. Lifting weights helps create more muscle, which can tip the scales up while helping slim you down.
We’ve heard it all before. Bodybuilders are just meatheads with nothing on their mind except how much weight they’re gonna lift during their next workout. Frankly, we’re tired of the stereotype. It gets a little technical here: both test groups had increased brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), but the group who ran on the weighted wheel not only packed on lean mass, but also showed higher levels of both BDNF and brain activity. The harder they worked the higher their brain function.
It’s all about a certain type of lifestyle. A word that we throw around a lot here at Generation Iron. Bodybuilding promotes a rigorous and demanding focus to accomplish a task. That kind of focus, that kind of work ethic, becomes muscle memory. It gets a little technical here: both test groups had increased brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), but the group who ran on the weighted wheel not only packed on lean mass, but also showed higher levels of both BDNF and brain activity. The harder they worked the higher their brain function.
Why You Might Weigh More. You might have heard that muscle weighs more than fat, which is a bit of a misnomer. A pound of muscle weighs the same as a pound of fat; the difference is how much space they take up. Muscle is denser than fat, so it takes less space to make up a pound of muscle than it does a pound of fat. When losing weight is your goal, a balanced regimen of cardiovascular exercise and weight training can help you reach that goal. But instead of worrying about what the scale tells you, focus more on your size. Lifting weights helps create more muscle, which can tip the scales up while helping slim you down.