How to Become a Play Therapist. To become a play therapist you must hold an active license in a mental health field such as counseling, psychology, or social work. Before you can become a play therapist you must go to school, earn a degree in mental health, and get licensed in your field.
The Association for Play Therapy is an agency that gives out the certification for Registered Play Therapist. You will need to submit transcripts, social security number, and your play therapy educational coursework in play therapy.
You can choose to contact a Credential Coordinator at The Association for Play Therapy and ask them to preview your application for a $50.00 fee. The fee to apply for the registration of play therapy is $80.00 for members of Association for Play Therapy and $160.00 for non-members.
It cost a lot of money to become a registered play therapist. I am not sure that the financial benefits are worth it. But, if your thing is to be a play therapist then please don't let this stop you! Whatever you do as a therapist, especially if you work with children, get some training in play therapy.
It is also important to note that once you have become a registered play therapist you will need to have 36 hours of continuing education every three years. You must have 18 direct play therapy hours and 9 non direct hours. When I am acting as a school counselor I use play counseling and not play therapy.
The Association of Play Therapy also offers the Registered Play Therapist credential to licensed mental health practitioners with 150 hours of training in play therapy and 500 hours of supervised experience in play therapy.
As a play therapist, you would usually work with children aged between 3 and 11 on a one-to-one basis, or in groups of up to six children. You could work with children experiencing severe emotional pain and distress (such as depression, aggression or anxiety) caused by, for example: 1  abuse. 2  trauma. 3  neglect.
Click on the appropriate color for detailed information. To become a Certified/Registered Play Therapist with either the Canadian Association for Child and Play Therapy (CACPT) or The Association for Play Therapy (APT) you will need to complete the equivalent of 30 days of play therapy training by a certified trainer.