The Great Wall of China was built from the 3rd century B.C.E to the 17th century AD, in order to prevent the Mongols from entering and invading China. *Please see the relate … d questions and link below for more information. The Great Wall of China was built in the 7th century in 221 B.C. Emperor Quin Shi Huang had ordered peasents, every day people, and prisoners had also built the wall of China.
Article points, that “Most of the Great Wall of China was built in the Ming dynasty (1368-1644).” The article from Wikipedia states, that in 1368 was the fall of Yuan Dynasty, marking the Mongolian Empire’s final dissolution. Many parts of the Wall are built only to showcase the strengths of various rulers and to mark their existence in the expensive pages of Ancient History. Fact 8: Building of this great structure also represents the isolation China wants from the rest of the world.
Let's walk through history. Advertisement. The Great Wall of China is the largest network of walls ever built by man. It is not surprising that this structure, which is approximately 5,500 miles long, and runs over plains, hills and deserts, is not the result of the efforts of a single group of Chinese people. The wall was built over 2000 years and involved a large number of imperial dynasties of China. This colossal structure is not a single man-made wall but also includes natural barriers like mountains, trenches and rivers.
Although a useful deterrent against raids, at several points throughout its history the Great Wall failed to stop enemies, including in 1644 when the Manchu Qing marched through the gates of Shanhai Pass and replaced the most ardent of the wall-building dynasties, the Ming, as rulers of China. The Great Wall of China visible today largely dates from the Ming dynasty, as they rebuilt much of the wall in stone and brick, often extending its line through challenging terrain.
Confidence votes 3.9K. The Great Wall of China is a Chinese fortification built from 3rd century BC until the beginning of the 17th century, in order to protect the various dynasties from raids by Mongol, Turkic, and other nomadic tribes coming from areas in modern-day Mongolia and Manchuria. The Great Wall of China was built in the 7th century in 221 B.C. Emperor Quin Shi Huang had ordered peasents, every day people, and prisoners had also built the wall of China.
The Xiongnu tribe was China's main enemy at that time. The Chinese built the Great Wall to prevent them from entering and conquering China. Originally made up of shorter walls between factions, the wall was fortified and lengthened under the emperor Qin Shi Huang beginning in 221 BC. The Great Wall of China was built in the 7th century in 221 B.C. Emperor Quin Shi Huang had ordered peasents, every day people, and prisoners had also built the wall of China.
Fact 1: The Great Wall of China, which now stretches up to 4,160 miles, was initiated as different walls built as mere borders for four different states in the then disintegrated nation long before the famous Qin Dynasty. Many parts of the Wall are built only to showcase the strengths of various rulers and to mark their existence in the expensive pages of Ancient History. Fact 8: Building of this great structure also represents the isolation China wants from the rest of the world.
Best Answer: The Great Wall of China is a Chinese fortification built from 3rd century BC until the beginning of the 17th century, in order to protect the various dynasties from raids by Mongol, Turkic, and other nomadic tribes coming from areas in modern-day Mongolia and Manchuria. 
It's well known that Emperor Qin built the Great Wall. But the history of the Great Wall is not that simple. Emperor Qin was not the first to build the Great Wall... or the last. There are many sections in different places, built with different materials, and built in different dynasties. Most of today's Great Wall was built or restored in the Ming Dynasty. In order to consolidate the northern border, after reclaiming China from the Mongol-led Yuan Dynasty (1279–1368), Emperors of the Ming Dynasty (1368–1644) never stopped building the Great Wall.