The yuan (/juːˈɑːn/ or /ˈjuːən/ ; sign : ¥ ; Chinese: 元; pinyin: yuan; [yuán]. ) ɥɛ̌n is the base unit of a number of former and-present Day chinese, currencies and usually refers to the primary unit of account of the, renminbi the currency of The'people S republic Of. china 
Both names are perfectly good, but in slightly different ways. Renminbi is the official name of the currency introduced by the Communist People's Republic of China at the time of its foundation in 1949. It means the people's currency. Yuan is the name of a unit of the renminbi currency. Something may cost one yuan or 10 yuan. It would not be correct to say that it cost 10 renminbi. An analogy can be drawn with pound sterling (the official name of the British currency) and pound - a denomination of the pound sterling. 
China's currency has fallen 3.5% against the dollar in the past two days, setting the currency up for its largest two-day decline in decades. On Tuesday, the People's Bank of China surprised markets by executing a one-time 2% devaluation of the yuan and changing the way it's traded. Story highlights. 1  China has allowed the value of its currency to fall by nearly 2% against the U.S. dollar. 2  Some say move is aimed at boosting China's struggling economy. 3  Others say China is allowing market forces a freer hand.
China's currency's official name is the renminbi (RMB). In Chinese, this means people's currency. More commonly, the renminbi is referred to as the yuan. 100 yuan is the largest bank note available in China. This is currently worth around US$13. Just as many countries have dollars and cents, and the UK has pounds and pence, China has a smaller unit of currency than the yuan. One yuan is worth ten jiao. Unlike most other counties, the jiao can also be subdivided.
The renminbi is the official currency of the People's Republic of China. The name (simplified Chinese: 人民币; traditional Chinese: 人民幣; pinyin: renminbi) rénmínbì literally means'people s.. currency The distinction between the terms renminbi and yuan is similar to that between sterling and pound, which respectively refer to the British currency and its primary unit. One yuan is subdivided into 10 jiǎo (角), and a jiǎo in turn is subdivided into 10 fēn (分).
China, Yuan Renminbi. The Chinese Yuan Renminbi is the currency of China. Our currency rankings show that the most popular China Yuan Renminbi exchange rate is the USD to CNY rate. The currency code for Yuan Renminbi is CNY, and the currency symbol is ¥. 
Chinese Currency – Renminbi (RMB). Chinese yuan, also known as Renminbi, is used throughout in mainland China, while in Hong Kong and Macau, Hong Kong dollar and pataca are respectively used. The basic unit of Renminbi is Yuan and the sign of Yuan is ￥. In some parts of China, yuan is called kuai and jiao is referred as mao. Chinese money is issued by the People's Bank of China in denominations of one, two, five, ten, twenty, fifty, and one hundred yuan. The jiao and fen coins are both issued in ones, twos, and fives.
Renminbi is sometimes accepted in Hong Kong and Macau, and are easily exchanged in the two territories, with banks in Hong Kong allowing people to maintain accounts in RMB. The currency is issued by the People's Bank of China, the monetary authority of China. The distinction between the terms renminbi and yuan is similar to that between sterling and pound, which respectively refer to the British currency and its primary unit. One yuan is subdivided into 10 jiǎo (角), and a jiǎo in turn is subdivided into 10 fēn (分).
Chinese currency is RMB(contain cash and coin) Renminbi (人民币) is the currency of the People's Republic of China. Its principal unit is the yuan (元), subdivided into 10 jiao (角). Each is further subdivided into 10 fen (分). The renminbi is issued by the People's Bank of China, the monetary authority of the PRC. China's currency is the Renminbi and the unit is popularly known as yuan. 1 yuan equals 10 jiao, 1 jiao equals 10 fen. There are parts of China where the yuan is also known as Kuai and Jiao is known as mao
Yuan is a unit, like a dollar. You can say 10 yuan or 100 yuan but it would be wrong to say something cost one renminbi. Think of the difference between British pounds and sterling. China's Communist Party introduced the renminbi, which literally means the people's currency, shortly before taking power in 1949. Story highlights. 1  China has allowed the value of its currency to fall by nearly 2% against the U.S. dollar. 2  Some say move is aimed at boosting China's struggling economy. 3  Others say China is allowing market forces a freer hand.