French Meaning: The name Ruby is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Ruby is: Jewel. American Meaning: The name Ruby is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Ruby is: Jewel. English Meaning: The name Ruby is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Ruby is: Ruby (precious stone). Latin Meaning: The name Ruby is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Ruby is: Precious jewel.
Origin of the name Ruby: Taken from the name of the deep red gem. Ruby is derived from the Latin rubeus (reddish) via the Old French rubi. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 
Ruby is a predominantly feminine given name taken from the name of the gemstone ruby. The name of the gemstone comes from the Latin ruber, meaning red. The ruby is the birthstone for the month of July. The name first came into wide use for girls in the late Victorian era along with other jewel names. 
The meaning of Ruby has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Ruby are: 1  Latin meaning: Red. 2  English meaning: Red, A Ruby Jewel. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Ruby and its name origin or of any other name in our database.
[ 2 syll. ru-by, rub-y ] The baby girl name Ruby is also used as a boy name, though it is far more popular for girls. It is pronounced as R UW-Biy- †. Ruby is of English origin and it is also used mainly in English. It is from ruby; rubeus which means 'red'. The first name is derived from the jewel name, itself of the Latin rubeus. It was taken up at the end of the 19th century.
Ruby is a very popular first name for females (#90 out of 4276, Top 2%) and also a very popular surname for both adults and children (#3646 out of 150436, Top 2%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Ruby for girls. Ruby /ru-by/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less generally as boys' name Ruby) is pronounced ROO-bee. It is of English origin, and the meaning of Ruby is the red gemstone . Jewel name first used in the 1870s. Dancer Ruby Keeler. Kreatif forms: Reby, Riby, Ryby
The different meanings of the name Ruby are: The meaning of the name “Ruby” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Ruby and its name origin or of any other name in our database.
Meaning of name Ruby. Etymology: Simply means ruby from the name of the precious stone (which ultimately derives from Latin ruber red), which is the birthstone of July. Saint : Origin: English. 