An intervertebral disc, or discus intervertebralis, is a structure consisting of fibrocartilage located between the vertebrae, the bones of the vertebral column, or spine. The intervertebral discs serve to hold the vertebrae together, cushion the spine, and allow for spinal movement. 
Sections. An intervertebral disc is made up of two parts: the annulus fibrosus and the nucleus pulposus. The annulus fibrosus is the outer layer of the disc that encompasses the gel-like nucleus pulposus inside the disc. Made of strong layers of collagen fibers woven together at varying angles, the annulus fibrosus gives structure to the disc and allows for even weight distribution of surrounding vertebrae.
An intervertebral disc (or intervertebral fibrocartilage) lies between adjacent vertebrae in the vertebral column. Each disc forms a fibrocartilaginous joint (a symphysis), to allow slight movement of the vertebrae, and acts as a ligament to hold the vertebrae together. The intervertebral disc functions to separate the vertebrae from each other and provides the surface for the shock-absorbing gel of the nucleus pulposus. The nucleus pulposus of the disc functions to distribute hydraulic pressure in all directions within each intervertebral disc under compressive loads.
Intervertebral disk. An intervertebral disk acts as shock absorber between each of the vertebrae in the spinal column by keeping the vertebrae separated when there is impact from activity. They also serve to protect the nerves that run down the middle of the spine and intervertebral disks. The disks are made of fibrocartilaginous material. The outside of the disk is made of a strong material called the annulus fibrosus. Inside this protective covering is a jelly-like substance known as mucoprotein gel. This interior is known as the nucleus pulposus.
Cervical vertebra with intervertebral disc. Discs consist of an outer fibrous ring, the anulus fibrosus disci intervertebralis, which surrounds an inner gel-like center, the nucleus pulposus. The anulus fibrosus consists of several layers (laminae) of fibrocartilage made up of both type I and type II collagen. The intervertebral disc functions to separate the vertebrae from each other and provides the surface for the shock-absorbing gel of the nucleus pulposus. The nucleus pulposus of the disc functions to distribute hydraulic pressure in all directions within each intervertebral disc under compressive loads.
The annulus fibrosus is the tougher outer layer of the disc. It is made up of interwoven fibers. The nucleus pulposus is the gel-like inner layer of the disc. This gel is made of water and proteoglycans, and it is the part of the disc that most absorbs and cushions your movements. Several analogies have been used to describe the parts of the intervertebral disc.
Annulus Fibrosus and Nucleus Pulposus. Intervertebral discs are composed of an annulus fibrosus and a nucleus pulposus. The annulus fibrosus is a strong radial tire–like structure made up of lamellae; concentric sheets of collagen fibers connected to the vertebral end plates. The sheets are orientated at various angles. The annulus fibrosus encloses the nucleus pulposus. Although both the annulus fibrosus and nucleus pulposus are composed of water, collagen, and proteoglycans (PGs), the amount of fluid (water and PGs) is greatest in the nucleus pulposus. PG molecules are important because they attract and retain water.