Iford Manor Estate. In 1899, Harold Ainsworth Peto discovered Iford and the individuality of the garden owes everything to his inspiration and eye for combining architecture and plants. The house is built into the steep hillside, so terracing forms an important element of the design. This building is the location for most of the recitals and operas that take place throughout the summer as part of the Iford Arts programme. Set in 2.5 acres this steep hillside Italian style garden affords the visitor wonderful views of the valley.
Welcome to the Iford valley. The Iford valley has been occupied since Roman times and the manor house sits idyllically by the Frome river in the steep-sided valley. Iford Manor is mediaeval in origin, the classical facade being added in the eighteenth century when the hanging woodlands above the garden were planted. 
Iford Manor (grid reference ST802589) is a manor house near Bradford on Avon in Wiltshire. It is a Grade II* listed building sitting on the steep, south-facing slope of the Frome valley. It is known for its Peto Gardens and as the venue of the annual Iford Arts Festival. The origins of the house may be as early as late 15th century.
The Peto Garden at Iford Manor in Wiltshire won the Historic Houses Association/Christie's 1998 Garden of the Year Award given in recognition of a garden, outstanding both for its horticultural and public interest. This building is the location for most of the recitals and operas that take place throughout the summer as part of the Iford Arts programme. Set in 2.5 acres this steep hillside Italian style garden affords the visitor wonderful views of the valley.
Iford Manor Garden, near Bath. Iford Manor garden is set on the steep wooded slopes of the Avon Valley. Above an 18th century manor house, Harold Peto the famous garden designer laid out a terraced garden with an Italian atmosphere. 
In 1899, the architect Harold Ainsworth Peto (1854-1933) visited Iford Manor with his friend, the garden designer and writer H. Avray Tipping. Peto bought the estate that same year from Captain Rooke, who had lived at Iford Manor from 1855 and had purchased it from the Gaisfords. During the 14th century Iford Manor was owned by the Carthusian priory at Hinton Charterhouse and leased by the Horton family, clothiers from Lullingston in Somerset, who purchased it at the Dissolution. Part of the house was their dwelling and part was a workshop for finishing cloth.
It's time to stock up. The Iford Manor Teas newsletter contains a 'free shipping' discount. Iford Manor Teas Summer Newsletter & OffersLimited availability fine teas and infusions from the experts at Iford Manor and a free shipping offer. Whether you are looking for a new house blend for every day drinking, or a little gem of an oolong from a small producer, we're seeking out the finest we can get our hands on. I can't believe they don't stipulate that you have to use Iford Manor Teas. Shocking lack of loyalty from the BSI. You've Been Making Tea the Wrong Way for 30 YearsIn 1980, the British Standards Institute published a guide to making tea.
Opera at Iford is staged in-the-round and sung in English for an audience of ninety. Performances take place in the miniature Italianate cloister within The Harold Peto Gardens of Iford Manor six miles from Bath. Tickets for 2016 opera season will be available from March 2016. Join our mailing list for up to date information on the new season or become a Friend and take advantage of priority booking.
A visit to the Peto Garden at Iford includes delightful features such as the Loggia, the Great Terrace, the Casita and the largest of Peto’s garden buildings, the Cloisters. This building is the location for most of the recitals and operas that take place throughout the summer as part of the Iford Arts programme. Set in 2.5 acres this steep hillside Italian style garden affords the visitor wonderful views of the valley.
About. The internationally renowned Iford Arts Festival takes place in the exquisite Peto Garden of Iford Manor, near Bath in the South West of England. The award-winning garden and its intimate and unique performance spaces combine to create a magical experience. 