An organ is a specialized group of tissues that performs a particular function, and often more than one function. Examples of organs are the brain, heart, eyes, bones, intestines, pancreas, rectum, lymph nodes, ears, stomach, liver, and gallbladder. We have close to seventy-eight organs in our body. Organs may work together to form a body system. This is the case with the major organs of the digestive system (mouth, esophagus, stomach, small & large intestines, rectum, anus) along with its accessory organs (salivary glands, liver, pancreas, gallbladder).
Inside the Torso. The body's functions are conducted by organs. Each organ is a recognizable structure (for example, the heart, lungs, liver, eyes, and stomach) that performs specific functions. An organ is made of several types of tissue and therefore several types of cells (see Cells). 
In biology, an organ or viscus is a collection of tissues joined in a structural unit to serve a common function. In anatomy, a viscus /ˈvɪskəs/ is an internal organ, and viscera is the plural form. Organs are composed of main tissue, parenchyma, and sporadic tissues, stroma. The main tissue is that which is unique for the specific organ, such as the myocardium, the main tissue of the heart, while sporadic tissues include the nerves, blood vessels, and connective tissues. Two or more organs working together in the execution of a specific body function form an organ system, also called a biological system or body system. The functions of organ systems often share significant overlap. For instance, the nervous and endocrine system both operate via a shared organ, the hypothalamus.
An example of an organ system is the, 1) digestive system. It includes your mouth, throat, small and large intestines, and your stomach. Other examples include, 2) the cardio … vascular system, 3) the respiratory system, 4) the endocrine system, and 5) the neurologic system. Of course, there are still more. 
All of the various tissues of the human body can be categorized into four basic tissue types. All organs are built of these four tissues, which have consistent characteristics and arrangements from organ to organ. 
Tissues are further organized in organs, the third level of organization in living things. Organs are groups of different tissues that work together. Your heart, for example, is an organ made up of muscle tissue, blood tissue, and nerve tissue. You are probably familiar with the names of many of the body organs. The brain, stomach, kidneys, and skin are some examples. Like cells and tissues, organs seldom work alone. They cooperate with one another and form specific organ systems. Organ systems are the fourth level of organization in living things. An organ system is a group of organs working together to perform a specific function for the organism.
In this lesson, you will learn what an organ system is, and you will review each organ system in the human body. This will aid in your study of human anatomy and physiology. At the end of the lesson, a quiz will test your knowledge. For example, the gonads of both males and females belong to the reproductive system as well as the endocrine system. Therefore, while dividing your body into different organ systems is useful from an educational standpoint, it minimizes the reality of these systems' interdependence.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The human body is made up of several organ systems that work together as one unit. Organ Systems Circulatory System: transports nutrients and gasses to cells and tissues throughout body. Digestive System: breaks down food polymers into smaller molecules to provide energy for the body.