Signs and symptoms of oral pyogenic granuloma. Pyogenic granuloma and pregnancy epulis are relatively soft, deep reddish-purple harmless single swellings on the gums which are often extensively ulcerated. Pregnancy epulis is regarded as pyogenic granuloma on the gums occurring in a pregnant female.
Pyogenic granuloma. Oral pyogenic granuloma is a relatively common lesion that appears in the mouth as an overgrowth of oral tissues. Often also known as “Granuloma gravidarum” and “ Pregnancy tumor “, it can be found elsewhere on the surface of skin and involve the septum of the nose.
It is a type of Pyogenic granuloma that affects the oral region or mouth. The condition gives rise to purple or red colored growths on the oral region. The growths may be smooth or lobulated and can range anywhere from 1 mm to a few centimeters in size.
Pyogenic granuloma is one of the inflammatory hyperplasia seen in the oral cavity. The term is a misnomer because it is not related to infection and arises in response to various stimuli such as low-grade local irritation, traumatic injury, or hormonal factors.
Although the majority of oral pyogenic granuloma in mouth is seen on the gums, more often in the front region of the upper jaw, the lesion can occur at other sites, for example the tongue and inner cheek as a result of trauma.
Pathophysiology. The pyogenic granuloma most frequently develops on the buccal gingiva in the interproximal tissue between teeth. Three quarters of all oral pyogenic granulomas occur on the gingiva, with the lips, tongue (especially the dorsal surface), and buccal mucosa also affected. A history of trauma is common in extragingival sites, whereas most lesions of the gingiva are a response to irritation.
The pyogenic granuloma is a relatively common, tumorlike, exuberant tissue response to localized irritation or trauma. The name pyogenic granuloma is a misnomer since the condition is not associated with pus and does not represent a granuloma histologically.
2 comments. Pyogenic granuloma. Oral pyogenic granuloma is a relatively common lesion that appears in the mouth as an overgrowth of oral tissues. Often also known as “Granuloma gravidarum” and “ Pregnancy tumor “, it can be found elsewhere on the surface of skin and involve the septum of the nose.