Area of a Rectangle. The area of a square that has a side-length of 1 cm is 1 square centimetre (or 1 cm 2). To find the area of a rectangle by the method of counting squares, we divide the rectangle into small squares of one centimetre side-length. Consider a rectangle of length 5 cm and width 3 cm. Using the method of counting squares, we find that the area of the rectangle is 15 cm 2
The formula is written as Perimeter = 2(length) + 2(width). As you can see, the formula can be written in various ways that mean the same thing.So let's do a couple of examples: If the length of a rectangle is 3 inches and the width is 1 inch, the perimeter = 2(3in) + 2(1in) = 8 in. So the perimeter is 8 inches. The area would equal 6 x 4, which equals 24 inches squared.Here's another example: if the rectangle is 8 inches long by 2 inches wide, the area would equal 8 x 2, which equals 16 inches squared. Now lets move on to finding the perimeter of a rectangle.
To find the area of a triangle, multiply the base by the height, and then divide by 2. The division by 2 comes from the fact that a parallelogram can be divided into 2 triangles. For example, in the diagram to the left, the area of each triangle is equal to one-half the area of the parallelogram. 
Area of a Rectangle. The area of a polygon is the number of square units inside the polygon. To understand the difference between perimeter and area, think of perimeter as the length of fence needed to enclose the yard, whereas area is the space inside the yard. Given the length and width of a rectangle, we can find the area. Given the area and one dimension of a rectangle, we can find the other dimension. The formula for area of a rectangle is: where is the length and is the width.
In another example, the length of our rectangle is 5 inches and the width is 4 inches. So 2(5in) + 2(4in) = 18. Therefore the perimeter of this rectangle is 18 inches. So that's how you calculate the area and perimeter of a rectangle. The area would equal 6 x 4, which equals 24 inches squared.Here's another example: if the rectangle is 8 inches long by 2 inches wide, the area would equal 8 x 2, which equals 16 inches squared. Now lets move on to finding the
The opposite sides of a rectangle are always parallel and equal in length.The formula for finding the area of a rectangle is very easy, you simply multiply the length of the rectangle by the width. Therefore Area = Length x Width. The area would equal 6 x 4, which equals 24 inches squared.Here's another example: if the rectangle is 8 inches long by 2 inches wide, the area would equal 8 x 2, which equals 16 inches squared. Now lets move on to finding the perimeter of a rectangle.
Area of a Rectangle. A quadrilateral is a called rectangle, if it is a parallelogram and each angle measures 90 degrees. A rectangle is a four sided and closed figure. In a rectangle all opposite sides are parallel and equal. Also in a rectangle all the adjacent sides are perpendicular. A rectangle is a quadrilateral and also a parallelogram. Let us consider a rectangle with length x units and width y units. Area of the above rectangle = L × W. Example 1: Given a rectangle where the length is 5cm and the width is 3cm. 
Units. Area is measured in square units. The area of a figure is the number of squares required to cover it completely, like tiles on a floor. Area of a square = side times side. Since each side of a square is the same, it can simply be the length of one side squared. If a square has one side of 4 inches, the area would be 4 inches times 4 inches, or 16 square inches. (Square inches can also be written in2.) Be sure to use the same units for all measurements. 
Area of a rectangle formula. The area of a rectangle is equal to a product of lenghts of two sides (height and width). where A-the area of a rectangle, a, b-the length of sides(the height and width of rectangle). A = a · b. You can use online calculator for computing the area of a rectangle. 
To find the area of a rectangle, multiply the length by the width. The formula is: , where is the area, is the length, is the width, and · means multiply. A square is a rectangle with 4 equal sides. To find the area of a square, multiply the length of one side by itself. The formula is: or, where A is the area, s is the length of a side, and · means multiply. Let's look at some examples of finding the area of rectangles. Given the length and width of a rectangle, we can find the area. Given the area and one dimension of a rectangle, we can find the other dimension. The formula for area of a rectangle is: where is the length and is