The USEPA recommends a limit of 0.02 ppm as NH3 in freshwater or marine environments. Total ammonia levels, at this limit, can range from 160 ppm at pH 6 and temperature of 5 degrees C to 0.06 ppm at pH 9 and temperature of 25 degrees C. 
1 Ammonia: Ammonia is the most toxic product formed in water. 2  Sources of ammonia in aquarium water are fish respiration and digestion and decaying foods. 3  Freshwater fish begin to be stressed at levels of .50 ppm (parts per million). 4  Marine aquaria levels should be less than .05 ppm; reef tanks at 0 ppm. 1 It occurs between ammonia and nitrate in the breakdown sequence. 2  Levels above 1.0 ppm are to be avoided in fresh water aquaria. 3  Saltwater levels should be maintained at less than .05 ppm; with levels above .10 ppm being critical. 4  Nitrite levels in reef aquaria should be 0 ppm.
Saltwater aquarists are more fortunate, as ammonia is 30 percent less toxic in a saltwater aquarium compared to a freshwater aquarium at the same pH. But remember, the only safe ammonia target is zero, irrespective of pH, temperature and salinity! Basically put, the higher the pH and temperature, the greater the proportion of ammonia in an aquarium will be in the form of the highly toxic free ammonia (NH3). This has bigger implications if you have a hard water aquarium at 80 degrees Fahrenheit compared to a softer cold water aquarium at 60 degrees Fahrenheit.
Ammonia is a nutrient that contains nitrogen and hydrogen. Its chemical formula is NH 3 in the un-ionized state and NH 4+ in the ionized form. Total ammonia is the sum of both NH 3 and NH 4+ . Total ammonia is what is measured analytically in water. Ammonia can be converted to nitrite (NO 2) and nitrate (NO 3) by bacteria, and then used by plants. Nitrate and ammonia are the most common forms of nitrogen in aquatic systems. Nitrate predominates in unpolluted waters.
NH4+ (this is called ionized ammonia). Together, these two forms of ammonia are called TAN which means total ammonia nitrogen. NH3 is the principal form of toxic ammonia. It has been reported toxic to freshwater organisms at concentrations ranging from 0.53 to 22.8 mg/L. Toxic levels are both pH and temperature dependent. Toxicity increases as pH decreases and as temperature decreases. 
Expected Levels. The nitrate level in freshwater is usually found in the range of 0.1 to 4 mg/L NO3 -N. Unpolluted waters generally have nitrate levels below 1 mg/L. The effluent of some sewage treatment plants may have levels in excess of 20 mg/L. The tests described here are used to measure the concentration of nitrate ions, NO3, in a water sample. Animal feedlots and barnyards. Although nitrate levels in freshwater are usually less than 1 mg/L, manmade sources of nitrate may elevate levels to above 3 mg/L. These sources include animal feedlots, runoff from fertilized fields, or treated municipal wastewater being returned to streams.
The difference in the oxygen readings between the two samples in the BOD is recorded in units of mg/L. Unpolluted, natural waters should have a BOD of 5 mg/L or less. Raw sewage may have BOD levels ranging from 150  300 mg/L (1991, Streamkeeper's Field Guide: Watershed Inventory and Stream Monitoring Methods) .
The value is 5.28% Un-ionized ammonia (mg/l) = total ammonia x percent un-ionized = 2 x 0.0528 = 0.106 mg/l (un-ionized NH 3) The as N values are based only on the nitrogen component of the molecule. To convert readings, use the equations in the table. Ammonia can be converted to nitrite (NO 2) and nitrate (NO 3) by bacteria, and then used by plants. Nitrate and ammonia are the most common forms of nitrogen in aquatic systems. Nitrate predominates in unpolluted waters.
Ammonia (page 2) If you measure pH and temperature, you can convert total ammonia values to un-ionized ammonia using the attached table. Example: Your total ammonia (mg/l) = 2.0 pH = 8.0 Temperature = 25 Degrees C Your sample is from a freshwater stream. Ammonia can be converted to nitrite (NO 2) and nitrate (NO 3) by bacteria, and then used by plants. Nitrate and ammonia are the most common forms of nitrogen in aquatic systems. Nitrate predominates in unpolluted waters.