Average Civil Engineer’s Salary in Canada. The table below details the hourly wages for Civil Engineers. The Canadian national occupation classification code (NOC) for this role is 2131. A typical full-time annual salary for this occupation is in the region of $65,000 – $80,000. Government labour market data indicates that the number of job seekers will be sufficient to fill job vacancies for the near future.
According to the latest figures, the highest hourly average (median) wages are earned in Calgary, Alberta at $50.00 per hour and the lowest average (median) wages are earned in Montreal, Quebec at $30.00 per hour. A typical full-time annual salary for this occupation is in the region of $65,000 – $80,000. Government labour market data indicates that the number of job seekers will be sufficient to fill job vacancies for the near future.
The 2014 full-time average hourly wage rate for natural and applied sciences and related occupations, which includes civil engineers, is $34.65. The 2014 corresponding median weekly wage rate is $1275, giving an approximate full-time annual salary for this employment unit of $66,000. A typical full-time annual salary for this occupation is in the region of $65,000 – $80,000. Government labour market data indicates that the number of job seekers will be sufficient to fill job vacancies for the near future.
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Civil Engineer III in Ontario, CA that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Civil Engineer III in Ontario are expected to make less than the median. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at employers of all sizes and industries on Civil Engineer III salaries to construct a range which describes the distribution of salaries for people with the job title Civil Engineer III in Ontario, CA.
The salary for someone with the job title Civil Engineer III in Ontario, CA varies depending on a number of factors. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at employers of all sizes and industries on Civil Engineer III salaries to construct a range which describes the distribution of salaries for people with the job title Civil Engineer III in Ontario, CA.
Average Civil Engineer salaries for job postings in Canada, KY are 5% higher than average Civil Engineer salaries for job postings nationwide. 
(Canada). The average salary for a Civil Engineer is C$61,918 per year. A skill in Project Management is associated with high pay for this job. Experience has a moderate effect on income for this job. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this field. C$46,141 - C$98,159
The average salary for an Entry-Level Civil Engineer is C$57,065 per year. X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare)