Plant cells do, however, have a number of other specialized structures, including a rigid cell wall, central vacuole, plasmodesmata, and chloroplasts. Although plants (and their typical cells) are non-motile, some species produce gametes that do exhibit flagella and are, therefore, able to move about. 
Animal cells and plant cells both contain: cell membrane, cytoplasm, nucleus. Plant cells also contain these parts, not found in animal cells: chloroplasts, vacuole, cell wall. The table summarises the functions of these parts. Plant and animal cells. Cytoplasm. Jelly-like substance, where chemical reactions happen. In plant cells there's a thin lining, whereas in animal cells most of the cell is cytoplasm. Plant and animal cells. Nucleus. Controls what happens inside the cell.
The cytoplasm of the animal cell is a gel-like material made of water. It fills the cells and contains proteins and important molecules that are necessary for the cell. The cytoplasm is made of proteins, carbohydrates, salts, sugars, amino acids and nucleotides. Cytoplasm holds all the cellular organelles. 1 The cytoplasm provides a medium for the organelles to remain suspended. 2  The cytoskeleton of the cytoplasm provides shape to the cell and it also facilitates movement. 3  It also aids in the movement of the different cellular elements.
All animals and plants are made of cells. Animal cells and plant cells have features in common, such as a nucleus, cytoplasm, cell membrane, mitochondria and ribosomes. Plant cells also have a cell wall, and often have chloroplasts and a permanent vacuole. Note that cells may be specialised to carry out a particular function. Dissolved substances pass into and out of cells by diffusion. Water passes into and out of cells by osmosi
Plant cells have certain distinguishing features, including chloroplasts, cell walls, and intracellular vacuoles. Photosynthesis takes place in chloroplasts; cell walls allow plants to have strong, upright structures; and vacuoles help regulate how cells handle water and storage of other molecules. eBooks. Plant cells have high concentrations of molecules dissolved in their cytoplasm, which causes water to come into the cell under normal conditions and makes the cell's central vacuole swell and press against the cell wall. With a healthy supply of water, turgor pressure keeps a plant from wilting.
The cytoplasm comprises cytosol (the gel-like substance enclosed within the cell membrane) – and the organelles – the cell 's internal sub-structures. All of the contents of the cells of prokaryote organisms (such as bacteria, which lack a cell nucleus) are contained within the cytoplasm. The cytoplasm is about 80% water and usually colorless. It is within the cytoplasm that most cellular activities occur, such as many metabolic pathways including glycolysis, and processes such as cell division.
The cytoplasm is the cytosol and all the organelles (minus the nucleus) in the cell. Its main function is suspension of the organelles, their nutrients, and products. The cyt … oplasm function in a plant cell is almost similar to the cytoplasm function in an animal cell. it holds all of the cell organelles, or stuff in the cell, together The cytoplasm acts like the cell s skeleton. it is a jelly like substance around nucleus The cytoplasms function in a plant cell is to help gel the parts of the cell in place but it is also where many of the cells chemical reactions happen. In fact the acids found in lysosom … es are actually contained in a plant cell vacuole. ADDED: actually the newest information is that some plants do have hydrolytic enzymes that preform all the functions of lysosomes and all, in reality, lysosomes.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Neodarwinian. Confidence votes 22.7K. cytoplasm..yes. lysosomes...no. In plant cells, the large vacuole acts as the lysosomes by breaking down large molecules into smaller ones. In fact the acids found in lysosomes are actually contained in a plant cell vacuole. ADDED: actually the newest information is that some plants do have hydrolytic enzymes that preform all the functions of lysosomes and all, in reality, lysosom