Wrap up with your buyer. Whether you're starting a business or just want to make some extra cash, selling on eBay is a fun way to do it. You can set up a seller account in advance, or when you list your first item. To create a listing, just click Sell at the top of most eBay pages. But there's a couple of things you might like to do first to help your chances of a sale.
Pagination for search results. This is the median price based on sales of this product in the same condition from all listings on ebay.com in the past 14 days, or if there are any insufficient number of listings for a meaningful calculation, the past 90 days. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10. This is the median price based on sales of this product in the same condition from all listings on ebay.com in the past 14 days, or if there are any insufficient number of listings for a meaningful calculation, the past 90 days. Top Rated Plus.
5. Manage your listing. Once you've got your listing up and running, you can check it to see how bidding is going. You do this from the Sell section of My eBay, which comes up when you sign into your eBay account. You can also: Set communication preferences to let eBay know how and when you want to receive alerts or notifications. You can set up a seller account in advance, or when you list your first item. To create a listing, just click Sell at the top of most eBay pages. But there's a couple of things you might like to do first to help your chances of a sale.
Tell us what you think. Pagination for search results. This is the median price based on sales of this product in the same condition from all listings on eBay.co.uk in the past 14 days or, if there are any insufficient number of listings for a meaningful calculation, the past 90 days. eBay Premium Service. Learn more. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
1 2. This is the median price based on sales of this product in the same condition from all listings on eBay.co.uk in the past 14 days or, if there are any insufficient number of listings for a meaningful calculation, the past 90 days. eBay Premium Service. Learn more.
3. Manage your listing. When you have your listing up and running, you can check to see if anyone's bid on or bought it by going to the Sell section of My eBay. You can also revise your listing. It's good customer service to answer any questions you receive from potential buyers about your item. Ship the item to the buyer safely and on time: Pack your item as securely as possible. Package your item carefully. Make sure the shipment information is correct and includes your return address. You can create your shipping label and packing slip on eBay.
Tell us what you think. Pagination for search results. This is the median price based on sales of this product in the same condition from all listings on eBay.co.uk in the past 14 days or, if there are any insufficient number of listings for a meaningful calculation, the past 90 days. eBay Premium Service. Learn more.
Most of the time, listing on eBay is free and you only pay fees when it sells. For example, you can list at auction with up to 12 photos, for free. Once your item sells, you are charged a small percentage of the final price. We realize you want to sell your stuff right now. Our quick listing tool makes selling on eBay easier than ever. We've simplified the listing steps, and included guidance and tips to help you get your stuff up in no time.