Depending on the composite of the concrete material, it can melt at  different temperatures. When concrete reaches a high enough  temperature such as more than 1000 degrees … Celsius, it can crumble  like sugar. The melting will start with the material that has the lowest temperature melting point unless you allow the system to take a long time and react into other solids first, of course. A ballpark guess of 800-1000°C for melting is what I would assume, for various reasons.
Concrete does not melt, at least not in the way you may be thinking. Concrete is composed largely of gravel an sand, with Portland cement that holds the sand and gravel together into a solid mass. The sand and gravel will melt, but you will not be doing it in your kitchen oven! That won't melt either. If you heat concrete it will eventually explode, as the vibrational energy of the water molecules in the concrete becomes greater than the molecular binding energy in the concrete, and the water escapes as steam, leaving a dehydrated silicate powder.
To argue that concrete does not melt because in molten form it is not concrete, is to argue that a cell-phone won't melt, because the resulting liquid is not a cell phone, since when it hardens it won't be a cell phone no more, Jim. melt: to change or to cause (something) to change from a solid to a liquid usually because of heat. 1  Concrete melts and forms lava (molten rock). 2  At 1500C it will melt entirely. 3  When it hardens, an igneous rock results.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Depending on the composite of the concrete material, it can melt at different temperatures. When concrete reaches a high enough temperature such as more than 1000 degrees Celsius, it can crumble like sugar. Not everything that is solid at room temperature and normal atmospheric pressure will melt by simply raising the temperature-some things convert directly to gas (sublimate)a … nd some things will decompose or react to other substances before melting (burning is one type of reaction), to answer part of the question.
Best Answer: The concrete does not have point melting. When the temperature is high (more than 1000°C) the concrete one crumbles like the sugar. Their components have different behavior. Stone and sand melts to 2600°C, the steel melt to 2500°. The same happens to the components of the cement. Good luck. For HSC reinforced by high melting point fibers, the first spalling occurs when the temperature reaches to approximately 800 °C, while there is no spalling during exposing to high temperatures for HSC reinforced by polypropylene (PP) fiber with a low melting point.
Iron melts around 1500o C but so do many of the silicate minerals in concrete, and a mixture of silicate minerals would melt at a temperature lower than any of the individual minerals (I'm a geologist-I get paid to know about stuff like that) . That won't melt either. If you heat concrete it will eventually explode, as the vibrational energy of the water molecules in the concrete becomes greater than the molecular binding energy in the concrete, and the water escapes as steam, leaving a dehydrated silicate powder.
It depends on the actual composition of the concrete. But at several thousand degrees (say 2,000 to 3,000 degrees F.) the concrete should start decomposing and flowing like lava. Various glasses easily melt at those temperatures. See http://www.newton.dep.anl.gov/askasci/mats05/mats05054.htm. 
Concrete does not have a melting point, even at very high temperatures. Instead, it decomposes. Some of the components of concrete will vaporize, but other components will remain solid even at very high temperatures. That won't melt either. If you heat concrete it will eventually explode, as the vibrational energy of the water molecules in the concrete becomes greater than the molecular binding energy in the concrete, and the water escapes as steam, leaving a dehydrated silicate powder.