1 Place the roast in the preheated oven. 2  Reduce the temperature to 475 degrees F (245 degrees C). 3  Roast for 21 minutes (seven minutes per pound) then turn off the oven and let the roast sit in the hot oven for 2 1/2 hours. 4  Do not open the door at all during this time! Ready In. 1  Preheat the oven to 500 degrees F (260 degrees C). 2  Season the roast with salt and pepper and place in a roasting pan or baking dish. 3  Do not cover or add water. 4  Place the roast in the preheated oven. 5
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Make a dry rub by combining chili powder, salt, garlic and onion powders, black pepper, sugar, dry mustard, and bay leaf. Season the raw brisket on both sides with the rub. Place in a roasting pan and roast, uncovered, for 1 hour. Add beef stock and enough water to yield about 1/2 inch of liquid in the roasting pan. Lower oven to 300 degrees F, cover pan tightly and continue cooking for 3 hours, or until fork-tender. Trim the fat and slice meat thinly across the grain. 
Start at 2:00 ... 375 degrees. Place roast in oven and cook 1 hour. Turn ... 300 degrees. The temperatures given are for sea level cooking. For high ... way, the roast beef will be a ... and perfect every time. Tie roast with heavy string ... over medium-high heat. Cook roast until evenly ... per pound. Check temperature with instant-read thermometer; ... serving platter; reserve cooking liquid. Cover roast ... Note: A boneless beef rib eye roast ... and the green onion.
How long and at what temperature should I cook a beef roast in the oven? Roasting is a great cooking method for a large, tender cut of beef  such as a rib or sirloin roast. Sirloin-tip, rump, rolled-rump, eye-of-round or top-round roasts will also benefit from this cooking method if they are graded prime or choice. Cooking at a constant oven temperature of 300°F (160°C), a 5- to 8-lb standing rib roast will take 17-19 minutes per pound for rare, 20-22 for medium rare, 23-25 minutes for medium, and 27-30 minutes for well done.
Turn the oven down to 200ºF and cook for about 1 hour per pound. Check your meat with a thermometer after 2.5 hours for a 2.5 pound roast. Follow these guidelines for doneness when checking temperature : 2. Preheat the oven to 250ºF. You will adjust the temperature when the roast is put in the oven. Ensuring that your oven is heated before your put in the roast will help ensure even cooking from start to finish. 3. Brown the outside of the meat to sear in the juices.
The oven temperature used to cook a beef roast is usually set somewhere between 300 degrees and 450 degrees Fahrenheit. The recommended cooking temperature for your roast is usually determined by the type of beef cut that you plan to roast. The proper beef roast cook times and the correct beef cooking oven temperatures are extremely important. The optimum flavor and tenderness of various beef roasts can be consistently achieved when care is taken to follow the recommended time and temperature guidelines for cooking beef roasts.
3. Cooking Temperature. There are varying opinions about what the perfect temperature to cook a roast beef but in my experience starting the beef in a very hot oven 425F/220C/Gas 7 for the first 30 mins then lower the temperature to 375F/190C/Gas5 for the remaining cooking time then .... 
Turn the oven down to 200ºF and cook for about 1 hour per pound. Check your meat with a thermometer after 2.5 hours for a 2.5 pound roast. Follow these guidelines for doneness when checking temperature 1  : 130ºF Rare. 2. Preheat the oven to 250ºF. You will adjust the temperature when the roast is put in the oven. Ensuring that your oven is heated before your put in the roast will help ensure even cooking from start to finish. 3. Brown the outside of the meat to sear in the juices.
A beef roast cooked to medium-rare should have an internal temperature of 145°F - 150ºF after the resting period, and a roast cooked to medium should have an internal temperature of 150°F to 160ºF. (See the note below). See Beef Doneness for more information on proper cooking temperatures. Place the beef on a rack in a shallow roasting pan with the fat side up. Do not cover the roast and do not add any liquid (liquid is used for braising, not roasting). Allow the beef to roast at 450°F for 45 minutes and then begin checking the internal temperature of the meat with a meat thermometer.