A Roth IRA is an IRA that, except as explained below, is subject to the rules that apply to a traditional IRA. You cannot deduct contributions to a Roth IRA. If you satisfy the requirements, qualified distributions are tax-free. You can make contributions to your Roth IRA after you reach age 70 ½. You can leave amounts in your Roth IRA as long as you live. The account or annuity must be designated as a Roth IRA when it is set up
However, you may have to pay taxes and penalties on earnings in your Roth IRA. Withdrawals from a Roth IRA you've had less than five years. If you take a distribution of Roth IRA earnings before you reach age 59½ and before the account is five years old, the earnings may be subject to taxes and penalties. If you’re under age 59½ and your Roth IRA has been open five years or more, 1 your earnings will not be subject to taxes if you meet one of the following conditions: 1  You use the withdrawal (up to a $10,000 lifetime maximum) to pay for a first-time home purchase.
Early Distributions. A withdrawal from an IRA made before the age of 59 1/2 is considered an early distribution.. While you can take your Roth IRA contributions out at any time, you are not afforded the same freedom for investment earnings like capital gains, dividends and interest. 
The Contribution Limit. For 2013 and 2014. the basic limit for regular contributions to a Roth IRA is $5,500 for people under 50 years of age, and $6,500 for those who are 50 or older. (Numbers like this can be found in our Reference Room .) This limit may be reduced for any of the following reasons: 
Age limits. Finally, one of the more appealing Roth IRA rules is that they do not have an age limit. Whereas traditional IRA contributions are barred for individuals older than 70 1/2, you can be any age and still contribute to a Roth IRA if you're earning money. 
Roth IRA Contribution Rules. Rules for Roth IRA contributions are based on age and income, and contributions are not tax-deductible. The Roth IRA contribution rules are categorized into two phases based on age: Regular contributions are allowed up to age 50. Catch-up contributions are allowed after age 50
If you’re at least age 59½ and your Roth IRA has been open for at least five years, you can withdraw money tax-and penalty-free. See Roth IRA rules for ages 59½ to 70. With a Roth IRA, there are no required distributions as there are with a Traditional IRA. If you’re between age 59½ and 70, there are several important factors that impact annual distributions from an Inherited IRA (not an IRA that you’ve simply transferred on your own).
A Roth IRA is an individual retirement account that offers tax-free growth and tax-free withdrawals in retirement. Roth IRA rules dictate that as long as you've owned your account for 5 years* and you're age 59½ or older, you can withdraw your money when you want to and you won't owe any federal taxes. No age limit. Contributions to a Roth IRA don't have to stop when you reach age 70½, the cut-off for a traditional IRA. You can put money in your account for as many years as you want, as long as you have earned income that qualifies.
Key Benefits: Roth IRAs offer a number of potential advantages over Traditional IRAs. While Traditional IRAs allow for tax-deferred growth of retirement assets, qualified Roth IRA withdrawals are tax-free, as long as you hold the Roth for at least five years and are at least age 59 1/2*. Withdrawals may be subject to a 10% IRS tax penalty if distributions are taken prior to age 59 1/2. 