Marine manganese nodules, those strange, fist-sized metallic clusters that cover about 30% of the ocean floor, have been known for over a hundred years. “[Manganese nodules] form in ways not fully understood by marine chemists, ‘growing’ at an average rate of 1–10 millimetres (0.04–0.4 inch) per million years, one of the slowest chemical reactions in nature.”.
A rheumatoid nodule is a firm feeling swelling or lump which occurs within 2 years in about 5% of people once they are diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis. And about 25% of RA … victims wil get them at some time during their lives. It is very unusual for 'rheumatoid nodules to appear if not accompanied with arthritis. In human nutrition, manganese is a trace mineral that your body uses in many en … zyme systems. Your body contains a total of 15-20 milligrams of manganese, most of which is located in your bones, with the remainder found in your kidneys, liver, pancreas, pituitary glands, and adrenal glands.
Although the conditions for the formation of manganese nodules are the same in all four of the major regions, their metal contents vary from place to place. The highest manganese content is 34 per cent in the Peru Basin nodules, while the highest iron content is in the Penrhyn Basin nodules with 16.1 per cent. At some sites they are more densely grouped. No nodules at all are found in stony areas. On the average, one square metre in the Clarion-Clipperton Zone contains around 15 kilograms of manganese nodules. Especially rich areas can have up to 75 kilograms.
Polymetallic nodules, also called manganese nodules, are rock concretions on the sea bottom formed of concentric layers of iron and manganese hydroxides around a core. The core may be microscopically small and is sometimes completely transformed into manganese minerals by crystallization. When visible to the naked eye, it can be a small test (shell) of a microfossil (radiolarian or foraminifer), a phosphatized shark tooth, basalt debris or even fragments of earlier nodules. Polymetallic nodules. The chemical composition of nodules varies according to the kind of manganese minerals and the size and characteristics of the core. Those of greatest economic interest contain manganese (27-30%), nickel (1.25-1.5 %), copper (1-1.4 %) and cobalt (0.2-0.25 %).
Manganese Nodules. An additional potential source of manganese is the ferromanganese nodules and crusts that occur on the seafloor in many parts of the world’s oceans. These bean-to potato-sized nodules are currently the target of exploration and research, mostly focused on the equatorial Pacific Ocean. 
A pulmonary nodule is a small round or oval-shaped growth in the lung. It is sometimes also called a spot on the lung or a coin lesion. Pulmonary nodules are generally smaller … than 3 centimeters in diameter. If the growth is larger than that, it is known as a pulmonary mass. In human nutrition, manganese is a trace mineral that your body uses in many en … zyme systems. Your body contains a total of 15-20 milligrams of manganese, most of which is located in your bones, with the remainder found in your kidneys, liver, pancreas, pituitary glands, and adrenal glands.
How nodules grow. The formation of the manganese nodules is conceivably simple. Dissolved metal compounds in the sea water precipitate over time around a nucleus of some kind on the sea floor. The growth core can be, for example, a shark’s tooth or a fragment of a clam shell, around which the nodule grows. At some sites they are more densely grouped. No nodules at all are found in stony areas. On the average, one square metre in the Clarion-Clipperton Zone contains around 15 kilograms of manganese nodules. Especially rich areas can have up to 75 kilograms.
It is also used to describe mineral aggregates that occur in the form of nodules, e.g. colloform mineral aggregate with a bulbed surface. Nodule is also used for widely scattered concretionary lumps of manganese, cobalt, iron, and nickel found on the floors of the world's oceans. Minerals that typically form nodules include calcite, chert, apatite (phosphorite), anhydrite, and pyrite. In sedimentology and geology, nodular is used to described a sediment or sedimentary rock composed of scattered to loosely packed nodules in matrix of like or unlike character.
It is assumed that the worldwide manganese nodule occurrences contain significantly more manganese, for example, than in the reserves on land. Occurrences of economic interest are concentrated particularly in the Pacific and Indian Oceans, in the wide deep-sea basins at depths of 3500 to 6500 metres. At some sites they are more densely grouped. No nodules at all are found in stony areas. On the average, one square metre in the Clarion-Clipperton Zone contains around 15 kilograms of manganese nodules. Especially rich areas can have up to 75 kilograms.