Tattoo Description: 3 Tattoos. I have 3 tattoos that I want to get removed and I just want to get an idea of how much it would cost. The first, is just a single letter behind my ear (about 1x1). The second is a four letter name on my calf (about 1 1/2x 1/2).
arthur perry md plastic surgery answered a $ 75 tattoo can cost thousands of dollars to remove there are usually fees for using the laser as well as surgeon s fees laser use fees are in the range of $ 200 $ 400 per treatment and the surgeon s fee depends on the size and complexity of the tattoo it could be as little as $ 200 or more than $ 10
before you get a tattoo you should realize that having a tattoo removed is much more expensive than getting one laser tattoo removal can cost several hundred dollars or many thousands of dollars depending on the size type and location of the tattoo medical insurance generally does not pay fo
Typical costs: Related articles: Tattoo, Mole Removal. 1  Tattoos can be removed using several different methods: laser removal, excision or dermabrasion, and the cost varies for each technique. 2  Laser tattoo removal, which is the most common method, and usually the best, ranges from $200 to $500 per session.
How much does tattoo removal cost? Treatments to remove tattoos can be expensive, especially because there are limited corrective treatments on the market. The most well-known corrective treatment on the market is laser. The cost of tattoo removal with laser can vary, but typically it can cost thousands of dollars.
The total cost of laser tattoo removal will depend on the size of the tattoo and the number of treatment sessions required to remove it. A single treatment for a small area may cost between $200 to $500, while large areas can end up costing upwards of $1000 for a treatment.
1 Laser tattoo removal, which is the most common method, and usually the best, ranges from $200 to $500 per session. 2  Because it can take from five to twenty sessions to remove a tattoo, the total cost could reach $10,000.