Report Abuse. Most Turkeys have several roost sites. If there is more than one turkey they will be scattered in a single tree or even in a couple trees. But they will usually fly near the tops of the trees. Where I hunt they use mostly pines, and they are old mature pines. So these birds will sometimes be 50-60+ feet high. 
Wild turkeys do not roost in just any tree. Instead, they choose trees that have some common characteristics. The trees generally will not be far from a water source and a food source, like an agricultural field. They also prefer big trees with an abundance of horizontal branches that they can rest on. Open Country. While the turkeys roost in trees, they do not use trees in dense forests. Given that they are large birds--they can weigh 20 lbs. or more--they would have trouble flying into trees in dense stands. And when they fly down in the morning, they prefer to simply pitch down into open land
These forest areas can contain such trees as Oaks, Pines, and hickories. However turkeys have been known to survive on land that is sparsely forested. Wild turkeys roost in trees at night, normally pine trees or large mature oaks these roosts offer protection from predators and also severe weather conditions. They will flee to the roost or available trees at the first sign of danger. The turkey s habitat condition is greatly linked to the density of turkey population. 
Trees with larger diameters have larger, flatter limbs that can support roosting wild turkeys. Depending upon the turkey species, turkey will use different roost at different times of the year. Rio Grande Turkey, for example, have summer roosts and winter roosts. Well, turkeys make use of tall trees to increase the distance between ground-dwelling predators and themselves. Not only does sleeping in trees get turkey off the ground and away from predators, but roosting turkeys also have a great line of sight to detect approaching predators. And although tall trees are must for turkey populations, turkeys are not selective with regard to specific tree specie
Wild Turkey HabitsWild turkeys roost in trees at night. They fly to their roosts at about sunset and fly to the ground at first light where they feed until mid-morning. They will often roost again for a short period in mid-morning and feeding will resume in the afternoon. 
Roosting. Turkey roosts that provide flock security are an absolute must for local turkey populations. Because of the importance of roosts, any landowner with even the hope of a successful turkey management program must ensure that quality roost sites are protected, enhanced, or at least maintained. Well, turkeys make use of tall trees to increase the distance between ground-dwelling predators and themselves. Not only does sleeping in trees get turkey off the ground and away from predators, but roosting turkeys also have a great line of sight to detect approaching predators. And although tall trees are must for turkey populations, turkeys are not selective with regard to specific tree species
Turkeys use these mature trees as roosting sites but seldom roost in the same place on successive nights. Therefore, several suitable roosting locations scattered throughout their range are needed. Understory trees, and trees/shrubs at woodland edges or in openings also provide cover. 
Sit calmly and quietly, listening as turkeys move into a likely roosting spot. You’ll hear wing beats as they fly up; maybe even soft calling or gobbling as turkeys approach roost trees. With any luck you’ll see them do this. Once in the trees, birds will often move from branch to branch, wings noisily flapping as they reposition. Okay, you know where turkeys sleep. Make your setup near where turkeys flew up the night before. If unpressured, they might land there in the morning. Roost gobbling and softer tree calling before fly-down as day breaks will allow you to reposition if necessary to gain the right setup position.