Vitamin B12, vitamin B12 or vitamin B-12, also called cobalamin, is a water-soluble vitamin with a key role in the normal functioning of the brain and nervous system, and for the formation of blood. It is one of the eight B vitamins. 
Dairy foods make up just one of the food groups rich in vitamin B6. Vitamin B6, also known as pyridoxine, is a member of the B-complex family of vitamins. Working together, the eight B vitamins help to convert the foods you eat into the energy your body needs to function properly. Vitamin B6, like the rest of the B-complex vitamins, is water soluble and cannot be stored by your body. In order to ensure adequate levels of the vitamin, you must replenish your supply of B6 on a daily basis, either through the foods you eat or by supplement.
Most of the natural vitamin B complex supplements consist of co-enzyme Vitamin B3, co-enzyme Vitamin B6, niacin, inositol, co-enzyme Vitamin B12, biotin, folic acid, mannitol and sorbitol. Natural vitamin B complex is definitely associated with synthetic vitamins but yet it much better than consuming purely synthetic vitamins. Natural supplements provide a wide spectrum of B Vitamins to fill the nutritional gap by providing a balanced blend of natural B group vitamins. Tweet.
Food sources rich in the vitamin are poultry, including chicken and turkey; seafood such as salmon, shrimp and tuna; beef liver; dairy foods, including milk and cheese; beans and lentils; vegetables such as carrots and spinach; and grain products, including whole-grain flour, bran and wheat germ. Vitamin B6, like the rest of the B-complex vitamins, is water soluble and cannot be stored by your body. In order to ensure adequate levels of the vitamin, you must replenish your supply of B6 on a daily basis, either through the foods you eat or by supplement.
Lamb is another good source of vitamin B and protein as are beef, poultry, shellfish, eggs, and dairy products. Foods that are high in protein are the only ones containing significant amounts of natural B12. Leafy greens are another natural food source containing lots of B vitamins. Many processed foods and grains, such as cereals and breads, have synthetic versions of this vitamin added into them.
Vegetable and Plant Sources. Certain fruits, vegetables, nuts and legumes are good sources of vitamin B; however, they do not contain significant amounts of B12 that is found in meat and dairy foods. Avocado, pomegranate, dates, watermelon, and some berries are especially high in B-complex vitamins. Leafy greens are another natural food source containing lots of B vitamins. Many processed foods and grains, such as cereals and breads, have synthetic versions of this vitamin added into them.
Vitamin B is a compilation of eight different vitamins, known as vitamin B complex, found naturally in high-protein foods. Leafy greens are another natural food source containing lots of B vitamins. Many processed foods and grains, such as cereals and breads, have synthetic versions of this vitamin added into them.
Natural Food Sources. Vitamin B6, like the rest of the B-complex vitamins, is water soluble and cannot be stored by your body. In order to ensure adequate levels of the vitamin, you must replenish your supply of B6 on a daily basis, either through the foods you eat or by supplement.
Natural vitamin B complex defines a blend of B vitamins with the same biological and biochemical combination as found in natural food sources. B vitamins are naturally extracted from food sources by simply removing fiber and moisture, without tampering with the natural function and action of the vitamins in the body. Even though derived form natural sources, these vitamins are chemically similar to synthetic B complex vitamins. This is because most of the natural supplements are associated with synthetic vitamins to increase potency and stability. Natural vitamin B complex is definitely associated with synthetic vitamins but yet it much better than consuming purely synthetic vitamins. Natural supplements provide a wide spectrum of B Vitamins to fill the nutritional gap by providing a balanced blend of natural B group vitamins. Tweet.
Foods with the most natural vitamin B are typically those that are high in protein. Both wild-caught and farm-raised salmon, trout, catfish, tuna, halibut, cod and many other fish varieties contain large amounts of B-complex vitamins. Leafy greens are another natural food source containing lots of B vitamins. Many processed foods and grains, such as cereals and breads, have synthetic versions of this vitamin added into them.