The partnership — Murphy USA and Walmart — shares a common philosophy: offer low, low prices on the things our loyal customers need, when and where they need them. We honor this philosophy on a daily basis by extending additional fuel discounts to Walmart customers at all our Murphy USA stations. 
Available at all Murphy USA diesel locations, ultra-low-sulfur diesel (ULSD) is a cleaner diesel fuel that has a maximum sulfur content of 15 parts per million (ppm). We have been proudly offering this product at our stations since 2008. Since 1996, Murphy USA has been the place people go to save on the gas that fuels their lives. From the lowest prices on gas to exclusive deals on your family’s favorite snacks and drinks, we’re always going the extra mile to help you buy smarter and drive farther.
Murphy sets out on a new retail gasoline venture by partnering with Walmart to build Murphy USA stations in the parking lots of their supercenter stores and opens its first station in Chattanooga, TN. Murphy is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol MUR with 3.8 million shares outstanding and 5,700 stockholders. Murphy Oil purchases the Ingram Oil refinery at Meraux, Louisiana, adding a second refinery to its downstream business.
Murphy is a city in suburban Collin County, Texas, United States. The 2010 census reported the population as 17,708, compared to 3,099 in 2000. Murphy is located northeast of Dallas and has a history that goes back to the early 1900s. Murphy shares borders with Plano to the west, Richardson to the southwest, Sachse to the south, Wylie to the east, and Parker to the north. It is 22 miles (35 km) northeast of downtown Dallas and about 34 miles (55 km) east of Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport.
Murphy Oil Corporation is an international oil and gas company that conducts business through various operating subsidiaries. Murphy Oil produces oil and natural gas in the United States, Canada, and Malaysia and conducts exploration activities worldwide. Murphy also has an interest in a Canadian synthetic oil operation. In 2013, the company spun off its retail marketing gasoline station chain, Murphy USA. Murphy Oil Corporation is headquartered in El Dorado, Arkansas, and has over 1,700 employees worldwide
Pay at any Murphy USA station with a Walmart Gift Card, Walmart Credit Card, Walmart MoneyCard or Walmart Discover® card to earn a discount of $.03 per gallon at the pump. Murphy USA has partnered with First National Bank of Omaha to bring you the Murphy USA Platinum Edition® Visa® card. The Murphy USA Platinum Edition® Visa® provides a discount of $.04 per gallon at the pump and 1% cashback on all qualifying non-fuel purchases.
Situated midway between Plano and Wylie on FM 544, Murphy is 2 miles (3 km) south of the famous Southfork Ranch. Murphy shares borders with Plano to the west, Richardson to the southwest, Sachse to the south, Wylie to the east, and Parker to the north. It is 22 miles (35 km) northeast of downtown Dallas and about 34 miles (55 km) east of Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport.
Murphy Exploration & Production Company, through various operating subsidiaries and affiliates, is engaged in crude oil and natural gas production activities in the United States and Malaysia and explores for oil and natural gas worldwide. Murphy Oil produces oil and natural gas in the United States, Canada, and Malaysia and conducts exploration activities worldwide. Murphy also has an interest in a Canadian synthetic oil operation.
At Murphy USA, Inc. , we understand that the success of our business depends on the support and satisfaction of our customers. That’s why we do everything in our power-from low Murphy USA gas prices and quality fuels to community service and in-store savings-to be as loyal to our customers as our customers are to us. 
LoopNet's Murphy, TX Gas Station properties include Gas Stations with Convenience Stores, Gas Stations with Service and Repair and brand name service stations like BP Gas, Shell Oil, Chevron, Exxon and 76 Stations. All Gas Station listings in Murphy, TX have been sold or expired. Try clicking 'Advanced Search' above to tailor your search for your specific needs. You may also view any recent Murphy Gas Station listings by clicking the Off-Market link on the right.