Here we will try to explain the cost of obtaining a U.S. passport. Passport fees can sometimes be confusing with different fee structure for different passport services such as routine and expedited passport services. Acceptance Agent Fee: The passport acceptance agent fee is required for all passport application expecting the passport renewal. This fee is for a federal agent to witness with signature of passport application.
1 This cost is for a passport book and passport card. ( 2 According to travel.gov, the passport card allows you “to enter the United States from Canada, Mexico, the Caribbean, and Bermuda at land border crossings or sea ports-of-entry and is more convenient and less expensive than a passport book. 1 If you need your passport in a shorter amount of time than 8 weeks (the average time it takes to get a passport), you will be charged extra. 2  Expedited service will cost $60 and overnight shipping of your passport book will cost $15. 3  Adding pages to your passport book will cost an extra $82.
1 Breaking down the specific costs, the application fee for a passport booklet is $75 for adults (16+) and $60 for children. 2  Applying for a passport card costs $20 for adults and $10 for children. 3  Applicants must also submit two 2-inch by 2-inch color photos with the passport application. 1 The total cost to get photos and apply for a passport can run $50-$175. 2  The Department of State Passport Fees website breaks down all the standard government fees. 3  Breaking down the specific costs, the application fee for a passport booklet is $75 for adults (16+) and $60 for childre
Routine & Expedited Passport Fees. The passport application fee and the execution fee (new passport only) are the only mandatory fees. There are several optional fees such as the ones for expedited service, overnight delivery and a file search. All the fees are listed below. If 2 to 3 weeks is not fast enough, you will have to either visit a regional agency or apply online for expedited service in order to get your passport in under 2 weeks. Submitting incorrect passport fees could delay the processing of your application.
1 This passport photo usually costs about $15. 2  If you need your passport in a shorter amount of time than 8 weeks (the average time it takes to get a passport), you will be charged extra. 3  Expedited service will cost $60 and overnight shipping of your passport book will cost $15. 1 If you need your passport in a shorter amount of time than 8 weeks (the average time it takes to get a passport), you will be charged extra. 2  Expedited service will cost $60 and overnight shipping of your passport book will cost $15. 3  Adding pages to your passport book will cost an extra $82.
Other passport fees are also expected to rise later this year. For those under 16, the cost of a passport could be $105. Passport renewal may jump to $110. But if you’ll be in a hurry to get to Paris or that Bermuda beach, the additional fee for expedited passport services is likely to remain at $60. US passport: The cost of your first one could go up to $135. The State Department is planning to increase fees for a US passport. The cost of a renewal could
1 The Department of State Passport Fees website breaks down all the standard government fees. 2  Breaking down the specific costs, the application fee for a passport booklet is $75 for adults (16+) and $60 for children. 3  Applying for a passport card costs $20 for adults and $10 for children. 1 The total cost to get photos and apply for a passport can run $50-$175. 2  The Department of State Passport Fees website breaks down all the standard government fees. 3  Breaking down the specific costs, the application fee for a passport booklet is $75 for adults (16+) and $6
The cost of a passport can vary depending on the type of service you require, how quickly you need to get the application processed and any additional services you might need. There is an application fee for most services ranging from only $15 for a passport card for a minor to $110 for a new passport or renewal. An execution fee of $25 is mandatory when submitting Form DS-11. This is paid to the agent that adjudicates the application. The fees for some of the optional services are $60 for expedited service, $14.85 for overnight delivery of your new passport and $150 for a file search
The lowest possible price would be about $50 for the renewal of a passport card for an adult. This would include the application fee, passport photo and postage. The highest amount an applicant might spend to get a passport can reach $750 or more. There is an application fee for most services ranging from only $15 for a passport card for a minor to $110 for a new passport or renewal. An execution fee of $25 is mandatory when submitting Form DS-11. This is paid to the agent that adjudicates the application.