Hydromorphone is a more common synonym for dihydromorphinone (not to be confused with dihydromorphine, which is a different derivative of the morphine family), commonly a hydrochloride (brand names Palladone, Dilaudid, and numerous others). It is a very potent centrally acting analgesic drug of the opioid class. Hydromorphone is known in various countries around the world by the brand names Hydal, Dimorphone, Sophidone LP, Dilaudid, Hydrostat, Hydromorfan, Hydromorphan, Hymorphan, Laudicon, Opidol, Palladone, Hydromorph Contin and others.
Generic Name: Hydromorphone Controlled Release. Strength: 24 mg. Manufacturer: Purdue, Canada. Trade Name: Hydromorph Contin. Type: Analgesic. Class: RX, CDSA I. Comment: Image courtesy of Acey. 1  Foreign. 2  Canada. 3  capsule. Generic Name: Hydromorphone Controlled Release. Strength: 18 mg. Manufacturer: Purdue, Canada. Trade Name: Hydromorph Contin. Type: Analgesic. Class: RX, CDSA I. Comment: Image courtesy of Aesthir
Generic Name: Hydromorphone. Hydromorph Contin® is a Canadian brand name for the continuous release formulation of hydromorphone, an opioid analgesic and antitussin used for the treatment of moderate to severe pain. Off label it is used as a cough suppressant. Hydromorphone is in a group of drugs called narcotic pain relievers, also called opioids. It is similar to morphine. Hydromorphone is used to treat moderate to severe pain. The extended-release form of this medication is for around-the-clock treatment of pain.
No -- hydromorphone is the active ingredient in Exalgo, but is not a generic version of it. Generic versions of immediate-release hydromorphone are available, but these medications are not equivalent to Exalgo. What can be confusing is that oftentimes, the active ingredient of a drug is referred to as the generic name.. The generic name is different from a generic version of a medicine. In order for there to be a generic version of a medicine, the original medicine must have gone off-patent and another company besides the original manufacturer must make the product. Exalgo Medication Information. Advertisement.
PRESCRIPTION: Yes. GENERIC AVAILABLE: Yes. PREPARATIONS: Hydromorphone is available as immediate-release and extended-release tablets, injection, rectal suppository, and oral liquid forms. 1  Dilaudid (immediate release tablets): Available in 2 mg, 4 mg, and 8 mg strengths. 2  Exalgo (extended-release tablets): Available in 8 mg, 12 mg, 16 mg. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Hydromorphone is an opioid narcotic pain-reliever similar to oxycodone, morphine, methadone, fentanyl, and other opioids.
Coming Soon: Generic Exalgo® (hydromorphone extended ‐ release) Background On May 13, 2014, Actavis announced the launch of a generic version of Exalgo®. The generic name will be hydromorphone extended‐release (E.R.) and will come in the strengths of 8mg, 12mg, and 16mg. At the current time the 32mg strength will remain brand name only.
There is currently a newer extended-release (once-daily) version of Hydromorphone available (in the United States), marketed under the brand name EXALGO. EXALGO was FDA-approved for marketing in March, 2010. EXALGO is available in 8, 12, 16 and 32 mg controlled-release tablets. Hydromorphone is known in various countries around the world by the brand names Hydal, Dimorphone, Sophidone LP, Dilaudid, Hydrostat, Hydromorfan, Hydromorphan, Hymorphan, Laudicon, Opidol, Palladone, Hydromorph Contin and others.
It is marketed as injectable ampoules, multiple dose vials, tablets and suppositories. Hydromorphone is indicated for relief of moderate-to-severe pain Hydromorphone .is marketed under brand names, Dilaudid ® and Exalgo ® . It is also marketed in generic forms. hydromorphone formulation ®s (i.e., Dilaudid) werethe leading opioid products for abuse and diversionStreet names for. ® are Dust, Juice, Dillies, Smack, D and Footballs. Abuse of hydromorphoneis mainly among rural and suburban populations.