The gray dogwood (Cornus racemosa) is a bush that has simple, elliptical, and opposite leaves. Its gray-to-white fruits and gray twigs give it its name. This dogwood grows in thickets in damp meadows in the mountains of the northwestern corner of North Carolina. The bark, flowers, berries, and roots of the flowering dogwood also had many medicinal purposes. The bark and sometimes the roots were used as a substitute for Peruvian bark in treating intermittent fevers and malaria.
B. F. McLemore. Flowering dogwood (Cornus florida) is one of America's most popular ornamental trees. Known to most people simply as dogwood, it has other common names, including boxwood and cornel. The species name florida is Latin for flowering, but the showy petal-like bracts are not in fact flowers. The wide geographical range of flowering dogwood, and the diverse soils on which it is found, is indicative of a large number of associated species. Dogwood is specifically mentioned in 22 of the 90 Society of American Foresters forest cover types (3).
The Dogwood has a rich history other than a pretty landscape tree. The name Dogwood could be attributed to two different sources. Dogwood is a very hard and strong wood, and it was said that the term Dogwood could have easily evolved from the Celtic word dag, dagga, or dagwood over the years. The wooden dagge was simply a useful, pointed tool. At the time of the Crucifixion, it was said that wood from the Dogwood tree was selected to fashion the cross. This distressed and saddened the Dogwood tree so much that Jesus took pity on the tree, and promised that Dogwood trees will never again grow large enough to use the wood for a cross.
1 Dogwood trees and shrubs are very common in many places and quite distinctive. 2  T…. 3  Insight into the Dogwood and When It Blooms The dogwood is a beautiful flowering tree. 4  It actually has a lot of use in adding flourish to landscapes. 1 Learn more about the symbolism of dogwood flowers and their use in…. 2  The Flowering Dogwood Offers a Kaleidoscope of Springtime Colors The state flower of both Virginia and North Carolina, the dogwood tree and flower offer a lovely springtime presentation.
1 Insight into the Dogwood and When It Blooms The dogwood is a beautiful flowering tree. 2  It actually has a lot of use in adding flourish to landscapes. 3  If you are looking to beautify your own space or are perhaps working…. 1 Learn more about the symbolism of dogwood flowers and their use in…. 2  The Flowering Dogwood Offers a Kaleidoscope of Springtime Colors The state flower of both Virginia and North Carolina, the dogwood tree and flower offer a lovely springtime presentation.
1 The Dogwood tree belongs to a genus of plants called Cornus. 2  Some species in this genus are evergreen while some are shrubs or small, woody deciduous trees. 3  Overall, Dogwoods…. A dogwood is a shrub or tree of the genus Cornaceae. It usually has yellow or white flowers followed by red, blue or white berries. The name comes from 'dagwood', so-called … because the hard thin branches were suited to making daggers, or skewers; it doesn't have anything to do with dogs. 1 person found this useful.
1 Identifying Characteristics of Dogwood Leaves Dogwood is a popular family of flowering trees and shrubs categorized under the genus cornus. 2  Dogwood trees and shrubs are very common in many places and quite distinctive. 3  T…. 4  Insight into the Dogwood and When It Blooms The dogwood is a beautiful flowering tree. 1 Learn more about the symbolism of dogwood flowers and their use in…. 2  The Flowering Dogwood Offers a Kaleidoscope of Springtime Colors The state flower of both Virginia and North Carolina, the dogwood tree and flower offer a lovely springtime presentation.
Anthracnose is a fungal disease that sometimes plagues Dogwood trees and can be identified by spots on the leaves and flowers. It can cause stem cankers also. If you suspect that your Dogwood tree has a pest problem, contact your County Extension Agent, and they will gladly help in identifying the problem. At the time of the Crucifixion, it was said that wood from the Dogwood tree was selected to fashion the cross. This distressed and saddened the Dogwood tree so much that Jesus took pity on the tree, and promised that Dogwood trees will never again grow large enough to use the wood for a cross.