A: Yes, you can contribute to both a Roth IRA and an employer-sponsored retirement plan such as a 401(k), SEP or SIMPLE IRA. However, each type of retirement account has annual contribution limits. Then you can strategize your distributions to minimize your tax liability. You can also contribute to a traditional IRA even if you participate in an employer-sponsored retirement plan, but in some cases not all of your traditional IRA contributions will be tax deductible.
In 2015, you can make a contribution of up to $24,000 to your 401(k), 403(b) or governmental 457(b) plan ($18,000 regular and $6,000 catch-up contributions) and $6,500 to a Roth IRA ($5,500 regular and $1,000 catch-up IRA contributions) for a total of $30,500 for 2015. Employers can only allocate designated Roth contributions and rollover contributions (and earnings on these contributions) to designated Roth accounts. The employer may not allocate forfeitures, matching or any other employer contributions to any
Since January 1, 2006, U.S. employers have been allowed to amend their 401(k) plan document to allow employees to elect Roth IRA type tax treatment for a portion or all of their retirement plan contributions. The same change in law allowed Roth IRA type contributions to 403(b) retirement plans. However, employers' contributions cannot receive the Roth tax treatment. The matching contributions made on account of designated Roth contributions must be allocated to a pre-tax account, just as matching contributions are on traditional, pre-tax elective
1 Employees can roll their Roth 401(k) contributions over to a Roth IRA account upon termination of employment. 2  It is the employer's decision whether to provide access to the Roth 401(k) in addition to the traditional 401(k). However, employers' contributions cannot receive the Roth tax treatment. The matching contributions made on account of designated Roth contributions must be allocated to a pre-tax account, just as matching contributions are on traditional, pre-tax elective contributions.
Posted. Employer maintains a 401(k) plan and offices throughout country. Employer, in a collective bargaining agreement, agreed to make contributions to the IRAs of 5 employees (in one of its offices) on a weekly basis several years ago. Employer continues to make contributions each week for the employees. 
You can contribute to a Roth at any age, even past retirement age, as long as you’re still earning taxable income. A working spouse can also contribute to a Roth IRA on behalf of a nonworking spouse. For a 401(k), the 2014 contribution limit is $17,500, unless you’re 50 or older, in which case the limit is $23,000. Then you can strategize your distributions to minimize your tax liability. You can also contribute to a traditional IRA even if you participate in an employer-sponsored retirement plan, but in some cases not all of your traditional IRA contributions will be tax deductible.
1 You can still make your annual contribution if you also convert money from a tax-deductible account (like a traditional IRA) to a Roth in the same year. 2  You can contribute to a Roth even if you participate in a retirement plan through your employer. 2015 Roth IRA Rules-Eligibility, Income, Contribution Limits, and More. Note: The article below refers to the 2015 tax year. Assuming your IRA was opened by Dec. 31, 2015, you have until the tax filing deadline–April 15, 2016–to make a 2015 contribution.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Yes and no, if an employer contributes to your Roth IRA directly the employer must report it as income to you. Since it is income they must also report it to uncle sam as taxable income and the employer will have to pay payroll taxes on the contribution. 
The Roth 401(k) combines some of the most advantageous aspects of both the 401(k) and the Roth IRA. Under the Roth 401(k), employees may contribute funds on a post-tax elective deferral basis, in addition to, or instead of, pre-tax elective deferrals under their traditional 401(k) plans. However, employers' contributions cannot receive the Roth tax treatment. The matching contributions made on account of designated Roth contributions must be allocated to a pre-tax account, just as matching contributions are on traditional, pre-tax elective contributions.