“ The notion of the zodiac is very ancient, with roots in the early cultures of Mesopotamia. The first 12-sign zodiacs were named after the gods of these cultures. The Greeks adopted astrology from the Babylonians, and the Romans, in turn, adopted astrology from the Greeks. This is usually taken to be symbolic of the 12 tribes of Israel. This notion of 12 tribes, however, is itself a symbolic reference to the 12 signs of the zodiac in Babylonian astrology, which the Jews adopted whilst in exile in Babylon.
In this regard, astrology is related to the nature religions. These also assume that nature is inhabited and governed by magical powers, demons, and gods. Like the nature religions, astrology believes in a multitude of gods; it is polytheistic at its core. First, the Christian faith has absolute priority over any form of astrology. Second, the horoscope should not be used to obtain forecasts, for astrology cannot and should not make precise predictions. He primarily understands the horoscope, as does psychological astrology, as a mirror image of the human spirit.
Well i don't know about zodiac signs but i read in the book of enoch that it was the angels that taught men astrology. There is still a lot of debat as to the real motif of the catholic church for excluding this book from the bible as the early christians considered it scriptural. As for astrology and zodiac signs,when I was younger I found that the traits associated with my zodiac signs were eerily accurate. I think it fell into disrepute because it was inculcated into occultic practices.
By the time astrology became religion and science at the same timethe oldest known personal horoscope is from the year 410 BC [6] it had already undergone a long period of development. But before we have a look at the history of astrology, a peculiar fact should be pointed out. First, the Christian faith has absolute priority over any form of astrology. Second, the horoscope should not be used to obtain forecasts, for astrology cannot and should not make precise predictions. He primarily understands the horoscope, as does psychological astrology, as a mirror image of the human spirit.
Horus:Jesus (Cleophas, Jesus-Justus; Colossians 4:11) is the Capricorn of the 12th sign, 12th month of the zodiac; and astrology is Amam's (Leviathan's) religion along with tarot cards, and ouija boards and psychics. This is their way of getting in contact with those familiar (disagreeable) spirits. As for astrology and zodiac signs,when I was younger I found that the traits associated with my zodiac signs were eerily accurate. I think it fell into disrepute because it was inculcated into occultic practices.
The calendar astrology uses to determine the sign of your birth does not agree with the present position of the constellations! In the technical sense of the word the 12 signs [of the Zodiac] are geometrical divisions 30 degrees in extent counting from the position of the sun at the vernal equinox. In the time of Hipparchus [2000 years ago when the signs of the Zodiac were defined] the signs corresponded fairly closely with the constellations; that is to say, the first sign (called Aries) corresponded with the constellation Aries.
Hippocrates stated, “A physician that does not know the truth of astrology is not a physician but a fool.” The Bible is filled with astrological information. Jesus represents the Sun and the twelve disciples represent the twelve astrological signs of the zodiac. In the book Kabalistic Astrology, it is written that the twelve sons of Jacob were representative of the twelve signs of the zodiac and that the personality traits of each son were used to describe each sun sign we know today.
The ram's horn that the Hebrews *still* blow to this day is symbolic of the zodiac sign Aries, and nothing else. The list of astrological references in the bible goes on and on, look it up. Astrology is not a religion, but religion is a watered down astrological fairy tale. Religion is the *mythology*, astrology is the fact. As far as astrology being a belief, that really doesn't fit either, because you need not believe in astrology for it to work. The effects of astrology are observable, regardless of whether or not one *believes* that they are.
1. Astrology recognizes gods in the planets, fixed stars, signs of the zodiac, and decades who express their will through their corresponding positions and constellations. The earth forms thereby the center of the world; the heavens with their star deities move about the earth as a closed sphere. First, the Christian faith has absolute priority over any form of astrology. Second, the horoscope should not be used to obtain forecasts, for astrology cannot and should not make precise predictions. He primarily understands the horoscope, as does psychological astrology, as a mirror image of the human spirit.
The twelve-part division of the zodiac is first reported in a cuneiform inscription from the year 419 BC [17]. But how it came from the quartering of the solar-orbit cycle to this twelve-part division can hardly be reconstructed today. First, the Christian faith has absolute priority over any form of astrology. Second, the horoscope should not be used to obtain forecasts, for astrology cannot and should not make precise predictions. He primarily understands the horoscope, as does psychological astrology, as a mirror image of the human spirit.