Located in the heart of Darjeeling, the Mall Road begins and ends here. The colorful shops strewn around the streets, with the myriad display of souvenirs, tribal ornaments, local handicrafts, brass statues, woolen garments, rosaries and Gorkha daggers, are a source of instant tourist attraction.
The oldest site in Darjeeling is Observatory Hill, known locally as Makal-Babu-Ko-Thaan. According to legend, a Red Hat Buddhist Monastery called Dorje Ling, or 'place of the Thunderbolt', stood at this very spot. The Nepalis destroyed it in the 19th century.
The Mall road originates and culminates at Chowrasta, which is essentially the heart of the city and people usually come here to take strolls, relax, shop and eat at the numerous shops and restaurants that line the road. The views from Chowrasta are splendid and this is one of Darjeeling's most popular places.
Batasia Loop. Located 5 km from the town of Darjeeling, this railway loop is the place where the tracks of the toy train spiral around over itself and pass through a tunnel located over a hilltop. As the train crosses this loop, it ascends almost 1000 ft in a matter of minutes.
Darjeeling is one of the most scenic and hugely popular hill resorts in India. At 2,134 meters above mean sea level, it is 686 km from Kolkata in West Bengal. Amidst the backdrop of the mighty snow-clad Himalayan peaks, Darjeeling has been popular with tourists for its beauty and pleasant climate.
The twin Cities of Siliguri and New Jalpaiguri are the departure point to Darjeeling, Sikkim and the North Eastern States. Being the nodal point this place has become very busy and crowded. Siliguri also acts as a transit point for Nepal.
Category: Nature. Situated at an altitude of 2590 meters, Tiger Hill is located 11 km from Darjeeling and presents a spectacular view of Mount Everest and Kanchenjunga. It is advised to go to Tiger Hill early in the morning and watch the sun rise over the mountain peaks.
This monastery is situated at Dali, about 4 kms away from Darjeeling town. This is one of the most famous monasteries belonging to the Kargyupa sect. The pioneer of this monastery was Thuksay Rimpoche, who died in 1983 and his incarnate is reported to have been born in 1986 at Ladakh.