You cause me to leave my home. But the very last words I heard her say. Was Please sing me one more song. Irene goodnight, Irene goodnight. Goodnight Irene, goodnight Irene. I'll see you in my dreams. Submit Corrections. Visit www.azlyrics.com for these lyrics. 
Irene goodnight. Goodnight Irene, goodnight Irene. I'll see you, in my dreams. Goodnight Irene makes an appearance in the 2013 video game, BioShock Infinite (which is set in 1912), during the raffle scene where the winner of the competition gets to throw the chosen numbered baseball at a captive mixed-race couple. The song was the basis for the 1950 parody called Please Say Goodnight to the Guy, Irene by Ziggy Talent. It also inspired the 1954 answer record Wake Up, Irene by Hank Thompson, a #1 on Billboard's country chart.
Irene goodnight, Irene goodnight, C C7 F Dm7Goodnight Irene, goodnight Irene, G7 C I'll see you in my dreams. C Adim G7. Stop ramblin', stop your gamblin'; G7 C Stop stayin' out late at night; C C7 F Dm7 Go home to your wife and family; G7 C Stay there by your farsight bright. Popularized by Lead Belly (real name Huddie Ledbetter) and made famous by The Weavers, Goodnight Irene is a song that has a special place in American roots music. A long list of artists have chosen to record the song.
This is a Hal Leonard digital item that includes: About Lomax-Goodnight, Irene sheet music for voice, piano or guitar: Digital sheet music for voice, piano or guitar. NOTE: chords, lead sheet indications and lyrics may be included (please, check the first page before to buy this item to see what's included).
Good Night Irene Music and lyrics by Huddie Ledbetter and John Lomax, 1950 Sequenced by Harry Todd If you can't hear the midi, CLICK HERE The following information was copied from The Biography of Huddie Ledbetter Huddie Ledbetter (-- 1949) Musician; born near Morringsport, La. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia.  Goodnight, Irene  or  Irene, Goodnight , is a 20th-century American folk standard, written in 3/4 time, first recorded by American blues musician Huddie 'Lead Belly' Ledbetter in 1933. The song was the basis for the 1950 parody called Please Say Goodnight to the Guy, Irene by Ziggy Talent. It also inspired the 1954 answer record Wake Up, Irene by Hank Thompson, a #1 on Billboard's country chart.
Irene goodnight, Irene goodnight, Goodnight Irene, goodnight Irene, I'll see you in my dreams. Sometimes I live in the country; Sometimes I live in town; Sometimes I take a great notion. To jump into the river and drown. Irene goodnight, Irene goodnight, Goodnight Irene, goodnight Irene, I'll see you in my dreams. Popularized by Lead Belly (real name Huddie Ledbetter) and made famous by The Weavers, Goodnight Irene is a song that has a special place in American roots music. A long list of artists have chosen to record the song.
Irene is a musical with a book by James Montgomery, lyrics by Joseph McCarthy, and music by Harry Tierney. 
1 Good Night Irene - lyrics and midi on RienziHills.com Retrieved on 2009-08-10. 2  Recording of Good Night Irene in .ram (Real Audio Metadata) format on LeadBelly.org (The first verse of Good Night Irene is also played on the Intro page of LeadBelly.org without requiring the Real Audio download. The song was the basis for the 1950 parody called Please Say Goodnight to the Guy, Irene by Ziggy Talent. It also inspired the 1954 answer record Wake Up, Irene by Hank Thompson, a #1 on Billboard's country chart.