A female Bengal Tiger is called a female Bengal Tiger.      Oh shut up, guy before me. A female Bengal tiger is called a tigress lik … e all other types of female tigers. There are various legends about how the Tigers got their nickname. One involves the orange stripes they wore on their black stockings. Tigers manager George Stallings took cre … dit for the name; however, the name appeared in newspapers before Stallings was manager.
Best Answer: You can call a female leopard a leopardess. However, tiger, lion and leopard are the names of the species and are not specific to the male. You can say 'tiger' or 'lion' to mean either a male or a female. Many people do use tigress and lioness to refer to the female specifically, but it is just as accurate to say tiger or lion. Source(s): Professor Frink · 6 years ago
Tigers have no such controls, so a male lion and a female tiger produce enormous offspring, ligers, whereas a female lion and a male tiger produce the much smaller tiglon. 49. Ligers can be over 4m long and are the largest cats in the world. 50. Tigers are the largest of all cats, but also have the most variability in size. The largest subspecies, the Siberian tiger, grows to over 3.5m long with a mass of over 300k. The smallest subspecies, the Sumatran tiger, is only around 2m long and 100kg when fully-grown.
Tigers are a big cat species located on the continent of Asia.  Female tigers are called a tigress. Lions are also a part of the  big cat category and their female counterpa … rts are called a  lioness. A female Bengal Tiger is called a female Bengal Tiger.      Oh shut up, guy before me. A female Bengal tiger is called a tigress lik … e all other types of female tigers. 2 people found this useful.
A male Bengal tiger is called a male Bengal tiger!!! + 2 others found this useful. Chris Mello. Edit. Share to: Jorge Quinones. 41,382 Contributions. There are things that interest me. History covers them all. Since the ancient history to the life of Scientist Nikola Tesla. A female Bengal Tiger is called a female Bengal Tiger.      Oh shut up, guy before me. A female Bengal tiger is called a tigress lik … e all other types of female tigers. 2 people found this useful.
a female lion is called a lioness and a male tiger is called a tiger. 4 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  All About the Amphibians Known as Waterdogs Waterdogs are the larval form of the tiger salamander, a popular pet of the land-dwelling amphibian species that returns to the water to breed. A female Bengal Tiger is called a female Bengal Tiger.      Oh shut up, guy before me. A female Bengal tiger is called a tigress lik … e all other types of female tigers. 2 people found this useful.
The liger is a cross between a male lion and a tigress, or female tiger. lion: Ligers and Tigons (Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11)). tiger: Tigons and Ligers (Children's Encyclopedia (Ages 8-11)). Related Articles: Mating between lions and tigers is not likely to happen in the wild. However, lions have mated with tigers in some zoos. The offspring of a male lion and a female tiger is called a liger. The offspring of a female lion and a male tiger is called a tigon. Ligers and tigons have features of both ... Mating between tigers and lions is not likely to happen in the wild. However, tigers have mated with lions in some zoos