Number of credits for a AA/AS Degree. The number of credits that are required to complete an associate's degree will depend upon the state mandate and your program of study. Typically, this degree requires 60 to 64 semester hours or 95 to 105 quarter hours. LDGE, at most schools -- and, again, this is regardless whether it's an associates or bachelors -- tends to be from 30 to as many as 45 semester credit hours; and so LDGE, alone, will take-up at least 1/2 to as much as 2/3 of an associates degree (or 1/4 to 3/8 of a bachelors degree).
It depends on how many courses one plans to take per semester. Most associate degrees require about 64 hours of college credit. If an individual were to take 16 cred … it hours during the Fall and Spring semesters and take summers off then one could complete the degree within 2 years. LDGE, at most schools -- and, again, this is regardless whether it's an associates or bachelors -- tends to be from 30 to as many as 45 semester credit hours; and so LDGE, alone, will take-up at least 1/2 to as much as 2/3 of an associates degree (or 1/4 to 3/8 of a bachelors degree).
Save. Thinkstock/Stockbyte/Getty Images. The number of semester credit hours required for an associate degree depends on the college and degree program. In general, an associate degree takes two years full time and represents half the work required for a bachelor's degree. Even though the typical bachelor's requirement is 120 credits, most two-year degrees require more than 60 credits, according to Complete College. Complete College surveyed 104 associate degree programs in 2011. The organization found that the most-frequent degree requirement was 60 semester credits. However, only 14.7 percent of the programs in the survey required 60 credits, and no college had a median requirement of 60 credits for all its programs.
The credits number for completing the Associate's Degree depends on the state mandate and the concrete program of study. Usually this degree includes 60-64 semester hours or sometimes 95-105 quarter hours. However, some programs require 70 or even more hours. 
The Associate in Arts Degree requires a minimum of 60 college-level credit hours including 36 hours in general education, 24 hours of acceptable electives, and satisfaction of the foreign language proficiency requirement. A. General Education Requirements for the Associate in Arts Degree- 36 Credits. 
Associate degrees generally require 60 - 65 credit hours of course work. An associate degree includes 60-65 hours of course work and typically requires two years to complete. Accelerated classes, combined with abbreviated sessions, puts this degree in reach after a year of concentrated studies.
If it's an associates degree, then it takes two years, and requires 60 semester credit hours (or 90 quarter credits, if that's the system the college uses instead of the semester credit hour system). LDGE, at most schools -- and, again, this is regardless whether it's an associates or bachelors -- tends to be from 30 to as many as 45 semester credit hours; and so LDGE, alone, will take-up at least 1/2 to as much as 2/3 of an associates degree (or 1/4 to 3/8 of a bachelors degree).