Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: terrestrial (Noun). An inhabitant of the planet Earth. terrestrial (Noun). A ground-dwelling plant. terrestrial (Adjective). Of, relating to, or inhabiting the land of the Earth or its inhabitants. terrestrial (Adjective). Of, relating to, or composed of land. terrestrial (Adjective). Living or growing in or on land (as opposed to other habitat); not aquatic, etc. of or pertaining to the world, or to the present state; sublunary; mundane. Terrestrial (adj). consisting of land, in distinction from water; belonging to, or inhabiting, the land or ground, in distinction from trees, water, or the like; as, terrestrial serpents.
The terrestrial planets Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars, sizes to scale. A terrestrial planet, telluric planet or rocky planet is a planet that is composed primarily of silicate rocks or metals. Within the Solar System, the terrestrial planets are the inner planets closest to the Sun, i.e. Mercury, Venus, Earth, and Mars. The terms terrestrial planet and telluric planet are derived from Latin words for Earth (Terra and Tellus), as these planets are, in terms of composition, Earth-lik
Word Root of TERRESTRIAL. The Latin word terra, meaning “ earth, ” “ land, ” or “ ground, ” gives us the root terr. Words from the Latin terra have something to do with the earth or land. A terr itory is an area of land ruled by a particular government. A terr ace is a piece of land with a flat top. 
Terrestrial planets are Earth-like planets (in Latin, terra means Earth) made up of rocks or metals with a hard surface — making them different from other planets that lack a solid surface. Not all planets are terrestrial. In our solar system, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune are gas giants, also known as jovian planets. It's unclear what the dividing line is between a rocky planet and a terrestrial planet; some super-Earths may have a liquid surface, for example.
Mercury is the smallest terrestrial planet in the solar system, about a third of the size of Earth. It has a thin atmosphere, which causes it to swing between burning and freezing temperatures. Mercury is also a dense planet, composed mostly of iron and nickel with an iron core. Not all planets are terrestrial. In our solar system, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune are gas giants, also known as jovian planets. It's unclear what the dividing line is between a rocky planet and a terrestrial planet; some super-Earths may have a liquid surface, for example.
The above gives a mean or average density of the whole object. Note that this means parts of the object might have larger or smaller densities than the mean density. The proper metric units for density is kilograms per cubic meter (kg/m 3) but density is often given in grams per cubic centimeter (g/cm 3).
Earth). Terrestrial planets are therefore those that are “Earth-like”, meaning they are similar in structure and composition to planet Earth. Artist’s concept for the range of Earth-like extrasolar planets that have been discovered in recent years.
In our solar system, there are four terrestrial planets, which also happen to be the four closest to the sun: Mercury, Venus, Earth and Mars. During the creation of the solar system, there were likely more terrestrial planetoids, but they likely merged or were destroyed. Not all planets are terrestrial. In our solar system, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune are gas giants, also known as jovian planets. It's unclear what the dividing line is between a rocky planet and a terrestrial planet; some super-Earths may have a liquid surface, for example.
terrestrial. 1. Relating to or characteristic of the earth or of human life on earth: earthbound, earthen, earthly, earthy, mundane, secular, tellurian, telluric, temporal, terrene, worldly. 2. Consisting of or resembling soil: 
Terrestrial. Definition. adjective. Of, pertaining to, or corresponding to land (on earth), as opposed to water and air. Supplement. The term terrestrial in biology is generally used to describe living organisms that live and grow on land. Living things that make use of nature as their habitat may be grouped based on where they live, grow and reproduce.