Fructose 2,6-bisphosphate abbreviated Fru-2,6- P 2, is a metabolite that allosterically affects the activity of the enzymes phosphofructokinase 1 (PFK-1) and fructose 1,6-bisphosphatase (FBPase-1) to regulate glycolysis and gluconeogenesis. The breakdown of Fru-2,6- P 2 is catalyzed by dephosphorylation by FBPase-2 to produce Fructose 6-phosphate and P i.
F2,6BP is a strong activator of PFK-1 (glycolysis) and an inhibitor of FBPase (gluconeogenesis). F2,6BP is synthesized from F6P by Phosphofructokinase-2 (PFK-2) and degraded to F6P by Fructose bisphosphatase-2 (FBPase-2). PFK-2 and FBPase themselves are allosterically regulated. Allosteric regulation is organized so that molecules (like ATP and citrate), which are consistent with a high energy state of the cell, turn off glycolysis. Acetyl-CoA is consistent with a high energy state, and it turns off glycolysis and turns on gluconeogenesis as well.
The concentration of Fructose-2,6-bisphosphate is lowered so glycolysis is inhibited. When PFK-2/F-2,6-bisphosphatase is phosphorylated (P*) by Protein kinase A in muscle, PFK-2 is activated and F-2,6-bisphosphatase is inhibited. The concentration of Fructose-2,6-bisphosphate is raised so glycolysis is activated. P and P* are two different sites on the PFK-2/F-2,6-bisphosphatase enzyme complex. The addition of P inhibits PFK-2 in liver but the addition of P* activates PFK-2 in muscle. I cannot explain the mechanism of activation of PFK-2 and glycolysis by insulin in muscle but it is the major control point
The net effect of gluconeogenesis is the reversal of glycolysis. In gluconeogenesis, glucose is synthesized from smaller precursors. Now that you have learned about G and values, you can have an appreciation for the difficulty a cell has in simply reversing a pathway. Allosteric regulation is organized so that molecules (like ATP and citrate), which are consistent with a high energy state of the cell, turn off glycolysis. Acetyl-CoA is consistent with a high energy state, and it turns off glycolysis and turns on gluconeogenesis as well.
Fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase (FBPase), a rate-controlling enzyme of gluconeogenesis, has emerged as an important target for the treatment of type 2 diabetes due to the well-recognized role of excessive endogenous glucose production (EGP) in the hyperglycemia characteristic of the disease. Oral delivery of these anionic FBPase inhibitors was enabled by a novel diamide prodrug class. Treatment of diabetic rodents with CS-917, the best characterized of these prodrugs, resulted in a reduced rate of gluconeogenesis and EGP.
Fructose bisphosphatase (EC 3.1.3.11) is an enzyme that converts fructose-1,6-bisphosphate to fructose 6-phosphate in gluconeogenesis and the Calvin cycle which are both anabolic pathways. Fructose bisphosphatase catalyses the reverse of the reaction which is catalysed by phosphofructokinase in glycolysis. None of these groups have been found in archaea so far, though a new group of FBPases (FBPase IV) which also show inositol monophosphatase activity has recently been identified in archaea. A new group of FBPases (FBPase V) is found in thermophilic archaea and the hyperthermophilic bacterium Aquifex aeolicus.
The synthesis of Fru-2,6- P 2 is performed through the phosphorylation of fructose 6-phosphate using ATP by the PFK-2 portion of the enzyme. The breakdown of Fru-2,6- P 2 is catalyzed by dephosphorylation by FBPase-2 to produce Fructose 6-phosphate and P i.
The net effect of gluconeogenesis is the reversal of glycolysis. In gluconeogenesis, glucose is synthesized from smaller precursors. From the G and values, you learned in BB 450, you can have an appreciation for the difficulty a cell has in simply reversing a pathway. Allosteric regulation is organized so that molecules (like ATP and citrate), which are consistent with a high energy state of the cell, turn off glycolysis. Acetyl-CoA is consistent with a high energy state, and it turns off glycolysis and turns on gluconeogenesis as well.
As a phosphoprotein phosphatase, insulin dephosphorylates the enzyme, thus activating the PFK-2 and inhibiting the FBPase-2 activities. With additional Fru-2,6- P 2 present, activation of PFK-1 occurs to stimulate glycolysis while inhibiting gluconeogenesis. The breakdown of Fru-2,6- P 2 is catalyzed by dephosphorylation by FBPase-2 to produce Fructose 6-phosphate and P i.
F2,6BP is a strong activator of PFK-1 (glycolysis) and an inhibitor of FBPase (gluconeogenesis). F2,6BP is synthesized from F6P by Phosphofructokinase-2 (PFK-2) and degraded to F6P by Fructose bisphosphatase-2 (FBPase-2). PFK-2 and FBPase themselves are allosterically regulated. Allosteric regulation is organized so that molecules (like ATP and citrate), which are consistent with a high energy state of the cell, turn off glycolysis. Acetyl-CoA is consistent with a high energy state, and it turns off glycolysis and turns on gluconeogenesis as well.