Medical conditions that affect joint health can affect your risk for OA. For example, bleeding disorders can cause bleeding in the joints. Conditions that affect blood flow or inflammation can also affect risk. Some medical conditions associated with OA include: 1  osteonecrosis. 2  Paget’s disease of bone. 3  diabetes. 4  gout. Arthritis involves chronic inflammation of one or more joints in the body. Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common type of arthritis. In people with OA, the cartilage in one or more joints deteriorates with time. Cartilage is a tough, rubbery substance. Normally it protects the ends of bones and allows joints to move easily
A. A. A. Unlike osteoarthritis, a condition caused by wear and tear on joints, rheumatoid arthritis happens when your immune system targets your joint linings. It’s a long-term condition that also affects other tissue, but the joints are usually the most severely affected. Doctors don’t know exactly what causes RA. 
Rheumatoid arthritis is a systemic disease, an inflammation of the membranes lining the joints, which causes pain, stiffness, warmth, swelling and sometimes severe joint damage. Moreover, arthritis is not just about common aches and pains. Osteoarthritis, the most common form of arthritis, is a degenerative joint disease marked by the breakdown of joint cartilage. Its risk factors include obesity, being overweight or having a history of joint injury. Symptoms of osteoarthritis most often develop gradually and include:
Psoriatic arthritis is a form of inflammatory arthritis that can affect some of the millions of Americans who have psoriasis. Psoriasis is a skin disease that causes a red, scaly rash, most commonly over the elbows, knees, ankles, feet, hands, and other areas. 
The term arthritis is used to describe numerous rheumatic diseases and conditions that affect joints. Some forms of arthritis, such as rheumatoid arthritis and lupus, can affect multiple organs and cause widespread symptoms. Arthritis is more common among adults aged 65 years or older, but people of all ages (including children) can be affected.
The primary causes of arthritis include viruses, bacterial infections, injuries, autoimmune disorders, and old age. There are over one hundred different types of arthritis, and each of these types can occur as a result of a different cause. Arthritis can affect large joints and small joints. The pain might remain located to one joint, or multiple areas of the body can develop symptoms.
Several factors can increase your risk of psoriatic arthritis, including: 1  Psoriasis. 2  Having psoriasis is the single greatest risk factor for developing psoriatic arthritis. 3  People who have psoriasis lesions on their nails are especially likely to develop psoriatic arthritis. 1 Having psoriasis is the single greatest risk factor for developing psoriatic arthritis. 2  People who have psoriasis lesions on their nails are especially likely to develop psoriatic arthritis. 3  Your family history. 4  Many people with psoriatic arthritis have a parent or a sibling with the disease.
The exact cause of arthritis is unknown. However, there are a number of risk factors associated with various arthritic conditions. A risk factor increases the chances that a person will develop a disease or condition. Risk factors for osteoarthritis (OA) include heredity and the wear and tear of aging. 