Air traffic controllers are the individuals who work in the airport towers next to the runway. These individuals complete a wide array of duties to ensure that planes take off, travel and land safely. However, there are many other individuals involved with air safety and airline issues than just the pilot, customer service representatives and flight attendants. The air traffic controllers who work behind the scenes are those individuals which have very important responsibilities to flight passengers everywhere.
When you are high up in the air, there are no traffic lights or police, it is very important to coordinate the movement of air traffic to make airplanes stay a safe distance apart in order to avoid mishaps. They effectively organize the flow of airplanes within the airport and closely monitor air traffic and make sure that there is safe distance between all aircrafts. In this article we shall discuss the various tasks carried out by air traffic controllers and their important role in keeping the passengers safe.
An Air Traffic Control Tower is very important at airports as it directs traffic on the runways and also warns pilots of dangers on the runway by directing them through radios which are tuned in the frequency of the airport. 
In general, air traffic controllers are individuals who control air traffic not only in the airport vicinity but between destinations as well. They are required to abide by strict federal regulations as well as specific policies and procedures. However, there are many other individuals involved with air safety and airline issues than just the pilot, customer service representatives and flight attendants. The air traffic controllers who work behind the scenes are those individuals which have very important responsibilities to flight passengers everywhere.
Air traffic controllers are people trained to maintain the safe, orderly and expeditious flow of air traffic in the global air traffic control system. The position of air traffic controller is one that requires highly specialized knowledge, skills, and abilities. In some countries, all air traffic control is performed by the military. In other countries, military controllers are responsible solely for military airspace and airbases; civilian controllers maintain airspace for civilian traffic and civilian airports.
Some air traffic controllers work at the Air Traffic Control Systems Command Center. These controllers monitor traffic patterns within the entire national airspace that could create bottlenecks in the system. When they find a bottleneck, they provide instructions to other controllers that help to prevent traffic jams. Air traffic controllers’ primary concern is safety, but they also must direct aircraft efficiently to minimize delays. They manage the flow of aircraft into and out of the airport airspace, guide pilots during takeoff and landing, and monitor aircraft, as they travel through the skies.
Air traffic control (ATC) is a service provided by ground-based controllers who direct aircraft on the ground and through controlled airspace, and can provide advisory services to aircraft in non-controlled airspace. En-route air traffic controllers work in facilities called Air Traffic Control Centers, each of which is commonly referred to as a center. The United States uses the equivalent term Air Route Traffic Control Center (ARTCC).
3. Primary objective of Air Traffic Control is to prevent collisions between aircraft. In order to achieve this objective, the Air Traffic Controller issues clearances to provide safe separation between aircraft at any given time. Internationally agreed standards and procedures are followed to accommodate the aircraft movements in a safe and orderly manner. 1. Aviation has come a long way since the days when safe operation between aircraft was based purely on the 'SEE AND BE SEEN' principle. With the aircraft closing speeds in excess of 1000 mph, and increasing density of air traffic, the impracticability of reliance upon such a system is obvious. 2.
One of the more important traits which air traffic controllers should have is precision. There is a lot at stake when it comes to controlling air traffic and it is easy to see why precision is so important. One wrong move by an air traffic controller could cost the lives of many. Air traffic controllers must also be alert at all times in order to be the best controller possible. However, there are many other individuals involved with air safety and airline issues than just the pilot, customer service representatives and flight attendants. The air traffic controllers who work behind the scenes are those individuals which have very important responsibilities to flight passengers everywhere.
In fiscal 2011, the FAA budget will be about $16.4 billion. Of the total, $9.7 billion will go toward operations, which includes $7.6 billion for air traffic control operations, $1.3 billion for safety regulation and certification, and $0.8 billion for other functions. More recently, a 2005 study by the Department of Transportation's Office of Inspector General looked at 16 major air traffic control upgrade projects and found that the combined costs had risen from $8.9 billion to $14.5 billion.