Causes. The cause of Rett's disorder is a genetic mutation on the long arm of the X chromosome (Xq28) at a locus known as MECP2. The gene was discovered in 1999, and it produces a protein known as MeCP2, which is essential to life and crucial to the normal development of the human brain. Rett's disorder, which is also known as Rett's syndrome or RS, belongs to a group of childhood disorders known as pervasive developmental disorders (PDDs) or autistic spectrum disorders.
Males with a MECP2 mutation suffer severe encephalopathy (brain disease) and die before their first birthday. More detail: Rett syndrome is a uniform and striking, progressive neurologic developmental disorder and one of the most common causes of mental retardation in females. After normal development up to the age of 6 to 18 months, developmental stagnation occurs followed by rapid deterioration of high brain functions. Girls with the syndrome show normal development during the first 6-18 months of life followed first by a period of stagnation and then by rapid regression in motor and language skills. The hallmark of Rett syndrome is the loss of purposeful hand use and its replacement with stereotyped hand-wringing.
Rett syndrome is an almost entirely female based disorder which affects girls. This condition is a neurological disorder which involves the brain 's grey matter. The clinical features include small hands and feet. People with Rett syndrome also have scoliosis. 
Definition. Rett syndrome is a rare genetic neurological and developmental disorder that affects the way the brain develops, causing a progressive inability to use muscles for eye and body movements and speech. It occurs almost exclusively in girls. Over time, children with Rett syndrome have increasing problems with the use of muscles that control movement, coordination and communication. Rett syndrome can also cause seizures and intellectual disability. Although there's no cure for Rett syndrome, potential treatments are being studied
Rett syndrome is a rare, but severe brain disorder that affects girls. It's usually discovered in the first two years of life, and a child's diagnosis with Rett syndrome can feel overwhelming. Although there's no cure, early identification and treatment may help girls and families who are affected by Rett syndrome. Most children with Rett syndrome have a mutation in a particular gene on the X chromosome. Exactly what this gene does, or how its mutation leads to Rett syndrome, isn't clear. It's believed that the single gene may influence many other genes involved in development.
Causes. Rett syndrome is a rare genetic disorder. Classic Rett syndrome, as well as five known variations (atypical or variant) with milder or more severe symptoms, can occur based on the specific genetic mutation. The genetic mutation that causes the disease occurs randomly, usually on the MECP2 gene. Only in a few cases is this genetic disorder inherited
Rett syndrome is a genetic that affects girls almost exclusively. It's rare -- only about one in 10,000 to 15,000 girls will develop the condition. In most cases of Rett syndrome, a child develops normally in early life. Most children with Rett syndrome have a mutation in a particular gene on the X chromosome. Exactly what this gene does, or how its mutation leads to Rett syndrome, isn't clear. It's believed that the single gene may influence many other genes involved in development.
The MECP2 gene is found on a person’s X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes. Girls have two X chromosomes, but only one is active in any given cell. This means that in a girl with Rett syndrome only a portion of the cells in the nervous system will use the defective gene. Some of the child's brain cells use the healthy gene and express normal amounts of the protein. The severity of Rett syndrome in girls is in part a function of the percentage of their cells that express a normal copy of the MECP2 gene.