Deep inside the medial temporal lobe is the region of the brain known as the limbic system, which includes the hippocampus, the amygdala, the cingulate gyrus, the thalamus, the hypothalamus, the epithalamus, the mammillary body and other organs, many of which are of particular relevance to the processing of memory.
1 Central nervous system (CNS): a part of the nervous system which includes the brain and spinal cord. 2  Parasympathetic nervous system: the part of your nervous system that unconsciously controls your organs and glands when your body is at rest.
The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action. The cerebral cortex is divided into four sections, called lobes: the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lobe.
The Human Brain. The human brain is a unique and complex structure; it facilitates vital and complicated physiological and psychological functions such as consciousness, mobility, emotion, and personality. Different parts of the brain are responsible for specific functions.
Parts of the Nervous System. show/hide words to know. 1  Central nervous system (CNS): a part of the nervous system which includes the brain and spinal cord. 2  Parasympathetic nervous system: the part of your nervous system that unconsciously controls your organs and glands when your body is at rest.
The brain is the most complex part of the human body. This three-pound organ is the seat of intelligence, interpreter of the senses, initiator of body movement, and controller of behavior.
1 The brain is divided into two halves (hemispheres). 2  The left half controls movement and sensation in the right side of the body, and the right half controls movement and sensation in the left side. 3  Thus, damage to the right side of the brain may cause movement problems or weakness on the body's
Brain Tour. 1. Three pounds, three parts. Your brain is your most powerful organ, yet weighs only about three pounds. It has a texture similar to firm jelly. It has three main parts: 1  The cerebrum fills up most of your skull.
PARTS OF THE BRAIN The human brain is hugely interconnected but three major components can be identified: the cerebrum, the cerebellum and the brain stem.