Old houses are constantly having to deal with wood rot and insect damage. While the old-growth wood used in houses built before the turn of the 20th Century are a more rot resistant wood than anything available today, no wood is rot or insect proof. Moderately Rot Resistant Wood. 1  Cypress – Here in the southeast this wood is very abundant. 2  Redwood – Redwood is to the western US what Cypress is to the southeast. 3  Old-Growth Pine – Pine is not usually a rot-resistant wood, but when you have old growth pine you gain a fair amount of resistance.
It will rot, just slower than most species. Old-growth is the best, but obviously that’s not a great option for something like a pergola and definitely not cheap. The next best is heartwood as mentioned above. You can get something like Woodlife Classic to further the rot-resistant characteristics of the cypress. Everything will rot… even stainless steel if given long enough. The best way I’ve found is to pour your footers, then embed a metal post support to keep the post out of the dirt and moisture. -- Improvise....
Cypress trees typically thrive in full sunlight. Cypress and falsecypress trees provide the home garden with dense, needled, evergreen foliage in a variety of colors, including green to blue-green, and habits, or shapes, such as columnar and pyramidal. Though these plants look strong, they are no match for root rot diseases that may lead to plant death. Phytophthora Root and Crown Rot. Phytophthora root and crown rot is a fungal disease that affects a variety of plants, including cypresses. Soil-borne fungi of the Phytophthora species infect trees, leading to plant death from the roots up into the rest of the plant.
Rot-Resistant Wood. 1  Old-Growth Cypress – The old-growth version of this resistant wood has so much more heartwood than its new or second-growth cousins that it is harder and has much greater resistance to rot and insects. 2  Cedar (Eastern White or Western Red) – Cedar is a great wood for exterior work. Moderately Rot Resistant Wood. 1  Cypress – Here in the southeast this wood is very abundant. 2  Redwood – Redwood is to the western US what Cypress is to the southeast. 3  Old-Growth Pine – Pine is not usually a rot-resistant wood, but when you have old growth pine you gain a fair amount of resistance.
The bald cypress is a mostly disease-resistant conifer. However, it is susceptible to brown pocket rot. Brown pocket rot is a fungal disease that infects the bald cypress through its crown. As this fungal disease penetrates the foliage, it enters the trunk and infects the heartwood. The heartwood becomes hollowed with spotted decay and the tree eventually dies. The bald cypress is also susceptible to twig blight. 
Sinker cypress, as the name implies, is cypress that sunk 100+ years ago while being harvested and is just now being raised and manufactured into lumber. A large part of it will be heart and very resistant to rot and decay. Regular cypress lumber sawn today is faster growing and has less heart due to smaller timber. 
Variability of Cypress Rot Resistance Old growth Cypress has more natural rot resistance than younger trees. May 15, 2011 Question Is there any difference between a swamp cypress and an upland cypress in decay resistance? A claim is being made that upland cypress is more rot resistant. Forum Responses (Architectural Woodworking Forum) From contributor U: We use a fair amount of cypress for exterior shutters, and we find there is a wide range of terms used to describe the different types. What we find to be in cypress that is referred to as swamp cypress is that there is a lesser quality in the stability and rot resistance of the wood. That being said, cypress is like most other woods in that the best material comes from the more mature trees, whether it is swamp or upland cypress.
Basics and Identification. When phytophthora fungus affects plants such as the hinoki cypress, it is known as root rot. This soilborne fungus attacks the roots of the tree, inhibiting it from absorbing essential water and nutrients. Initially, root root symptoms are not visible to the naked eye. 
Cypress Lumber's unique rot resistence and durability make it especially useful for outdoor use, such as siding, decking, and outdoor furniture. Because it is insect resistent, in warmer climates it is the construction material of choice as it requires less maintenance. 