You see it all over the internet: “Rebuilt Transmissions, $799 for most cars”, or articles that talk about the high cost of transmission repair. In the articles you’ll read that a reasonable price for rebuilding an automatic transmission might be as high as $1,500. 
Keep in Mind: An automatic transmission fluid service will replace the pan gasket, filter, and transmission fluid. Some vehicles do not have a serviceable transmission filter and some transmissions are designed to be “sealed for life,” meaning that they do not require any service or maintenance. In an automatic transmission car, the transmission system has an oil pan that contains the transmission fluid and fluid filter. The fluid provides the power/force required to shift into different gears. In manual transmission cars, there is a case that contains the
A Transmission Service is a type of automatic transmission maintenance that includes changing the transmission's fluid AND filter. First off, maintenance by servicing your automatic transmission is one of the most important things you can do to extend the life of your transmission. The only way an automatic transmission service can cause a problem is if a customer's transmission hasn't been serviced in a long time. New transmission fluid has a very high percentage of detergent in it that keeps the internal parts of the transmission very clean.
1 CostHelper readers report paying $1,200-$4,179 to replace a transmission in a passenger car, at an average cost of $2,324; $1,600-$4,500 to replace a transmission in a pickup truck, for an average $2,792; and $1,700-$6,000 for an SUV or minivan, with an average cost of $3,090. 1 A used transmission from a salvage or junk yard can cost $200-$600 or more, depending on the year, make and model of vehicle; the mileage and condition of the junked car; and the relative availability or rarity of that particular transmission.
Parts: $0 - $0. The average cost for an automatic transmission diagnosis is between $88 to $111. Labor costs are estimated between $88 to $111 while parts are priced between $0 to $0. Get a personalized estimate based on your location and specific car. Estimate does not include taxes and fees. 
1 The fluid capacity of the vehicle’s automatic transmission oil pan; the transmission oil pan on some vehicles can hold up to 3 times the amount of an average 4 quart oil pan. 2  The type of automatic transmission fluid used; ATF can range from around $5 a quart to almost $20 a quart. The only way an automatic transmission service can cause a problem is if a customer's transmission hasn't been serviced in a long time. New transmission fluid has a very high percentage of detergent in it that keeps the internal parts of the transmission very clean.
All 4 of these bullet points affect the price of a transmission service, but the average price for an actual transmission service should be around $150. For a price on your specific car’s transmission service you’ll have to call your local transmission shop. The only way an automatic transmission service can cause a problem is if a customer's transmission hasn't been serviced in a long time. New transmission fluid has a very high percentage of detergent in it that keeps the internal parts of the transmission very clean.
The cost of an automatic transmission service can vary greatly depending on at least four common aspects; 1  The type of vehicle; on some cars the labor to remove the transmission oil pan can be much higher than others. The only way an automatic transmission service can cause a problem is if a customer's transmission hasn't been serviced in a long time. New transmission fluid has a very high percentage of detergent in it that keeps the internal parts of the transmission very clean.
1 For example, CostHelper readers report paying $90-$378 for a transmission flush at a oil-and-lube or auto repair shop, at an average cost of $160; or $77-$295 at dealerships, at an average cost of $205; and a CostHelper reader in Nevada reported being charged $766 for a transmission fluid change on a Lamborghini Diablo. 1 For a standard transmission drain or service, a drain plug in the transmission is removed and the fluid is allowed to flow out into a pan. 2  CarReality offers a how-to video.
Parts: $25 - $49. The average cost for an automatic transmission fluid/filter change is between $151 to $209. Labor costs are estimated between $126 to $160 while parts are priced between $25 to $49. Get a personalized estimate based on your location and specific car. Estimate does not include taxes and fees