Etymology and meaning of the name Miriam. The origin and meaning of the name Miriam is unclear, although — as many Levite names are for some reason Egyptian — it may have to do with the Egyptian word for Beloved (see the name Merari). On a Hebrew stage, most scholars derive the name Miriam from the verb מרה (mara) meaning to be rebellious or disobedient: And the second part of the name Miriam holds some resemblance to the word ים (yam) meaning sea: Abarim Publications Theological Dictionary. Follow the link to learn all about: ימם. Hence, the name Miriam also means Bitter Waters or Waters Of Strength.
Origin of the name Miriam: Hebrew name of debated meaning. Many believe it to mean sea of bitterness or sea of sorrow.. However, some sources cite the alternative definitions of rebellion, wished-for child, and mistress or lady of the sea.. The name is borne in the Bible by the sister of Moses and Aaron.
[ 3 syll. mi-riam, mir-i- am ] The baby girl name Miriam is pronounced M IH R-iy-ahM (English) †. Miriam is of Hebrew origin. It is used mainly in the English, French, German, Yiddish, and Hebrew languages. Biblical name: Old forms of Miriam include Maryam (Aramaic), Miriam (Hebrew), and Miryam (Hebrew). The name is of uncertain etymology; it shares the same origin as Mary. English speakers have adopted the name since the 17th century. Miriam is a variant form of the English Mary in the English, French, German, and Yiddish languages. Miriam is a widely used name; it has 42 variant forms that are used in English and foreign languages.
The name of Miriam creates an intense nature with strong feelings and emotional desires. Consequently you are a determined, strong-willed person who projects uncompromising individuality. You could develop creative expression in art, music, or drama, doing to an extreme whatever arouses your interest. 
Don't get stuck on what a name means or supposedly means. Miriam is actually the original name for Mary, mother of Jesus (according to Bruce Lansky's The Very Best Baby Name Book In The Whole Wide World). Bitterness doesn't necessarily mean the same thing it once did so it's important to keep that in mind. 
American Meaning: The name Miriam is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Miriam is: Rebellious. Biblical Meaning: The name Miriam is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Miriam is: Rebellion. Hebrew Meaning: The name Miriam is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Miriam is: Rebellious. In the Old Testament, Miriam was the sister of Moses and Aaron. 
For more information, see also the related name Marianne. Miriam is a very popular female first name and a very rare surname (source: 1990 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity trend for the girl's name Miriam. Click here to compare Miriam with related baby names. 
Miriam /miri-am/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced MEER-ee-em. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Miriam is  star of the sea . From Miryam, an older version of the name Mary. Other possible meanings are wished-for child, rebellion or sea of bitterness. Miriam is a very prominent first name for women (#285 out of 4276, Top 7%) but an unusual surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Miriam for girls. Miriam reached its apex rank of #150 in the U.S. during 1910-1919, and is at #305 currently