As a energy source, the chloroplast produces starch during the  light independent reaction of photosynthesis. Starch is a  carbohydrate that is used in plants as energy the … same way it is  for humans. 5 people found this useful. Answered. Chloroplasts capture light energy to conserve free energy in the f …. 2 people found this useful. Judy Olmsted. 78,944 Contributions. Retired college science professor. Member of Beta Beta Beta Biological Honor Society.
During the day, the Calvin cycle operates in the same chloroplasts. Energy from ATP and from the reduced coenyzme NADPH is used to remove a phosphate group from 3PGA and reduce the resulting diphosphoglycerate (DPGA) to produce the 3-carbon sugar glyceraladehyde-3-phosphate (G3P). In this way, carbon dioxide from the air and water from the soil in a more disordered state are combined to form the more ordered sugar molecules. Carbon dioxide is captured in a cycle of reactions known as the Calvin cycle or the Calvin-Benson cycle after its discoverers. It is also known as just the C 3 cycle. Those plants that utilize just the Calvin cycle for carbon fixation are known as C3 plants. Carbon dioxide diffuses into the stroma of chloroplasts and combines with a five-carbon sugar, ribulose1,5-biphosphate (RuB
Excess sugar produced during photosynthesis is converted into starch and stored in different parts of a plant. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  Disaccharide Definition, Structure, and Examples The foods you eat contain several different kinds of sugars. 2  One of these kinds of sugars is called a disaccharide. Chloroplasts capture light energy to conserve free energy in the f …. 2 people found this useful. Judy Olmsted. 78,944 Contributions. Retired college science professor. Member of Beta Beta Beta Biological Honor Society.
The light-independent reactions of photosynthesis are chemical reactions that convert carbon dioxide and other compounds into glucose. These reactions occur in the stroma, the fluid-filled area of a chloroplast outside of the thylakoid membranes. 
This chemical energy is stored in carbohydrate molecules, such as sugars, which are synthesized from carbon dioxide and water – hence the name photosynthesis, from the Greek φῶς, phōs, light, and σύνθεσις, synthesis, putting together. In most cases, oxygen is also released as a waste product. In the light-independent (or dark) reactions, the enzyme RuBisCO captures CO2 from the atmosphere and, in a process called the Calvin-Benson cycle that requires the newly formed NADPH, releases three-carbon sugars, which are later combined to form sucrose and starch.
The Calvin cycle, a metabolic pathway found in the stroma of the chloroplast in which carbon enters in the form of CO2 and leaves in the form of sugar. report this answer. Updated on Thursday, February 02 2012 at 10:06AM EST. 
In C4 plants the photosynthesis takes place in a chloroplast of a thin-walled mesophyll cell and a 4-carbon acid is handed off to a thick-walled bundle sheath cell where the Calvin cycle occurs in a chloroplast of that second cell. This protects the Calvin cycle from the effects of photorespiration. In this way, carbon dioxide from the air and water from the soil in a more disordered state are combined to form the more ordered sugar molecules. Carbon dioxide is captured in a cycle of reactions known as the Calvin cycle or the Calvin-Benson cycle after its discoverers. It is also known as just the C 3 cycle. Those plants that utilize just the Calvin cycle for carbon fixation are known as C3 plants. Carbon dioxide diffuses into the stroma of chloroplasts and combines with a five-carbon sugar, ribulose1,5-biphosphate (RuBP)
Carbon dioxide is converted into sugars in a process called carbon fixation. Carbon fixation is an endothermic redox reaction, so photosynthesis needs to supply both a source of energy to drive this process, and the electrons needed to convert carbon dioxide into a carbohydrate. In the light-independent (or dark) reactions, the enzyme RuBisCO captures CO2 from the atmosphere and, in a process called the Calvin-Benson cycle that requires the newly formed NADPH, releases three-carbon sugars, which are later combined to form sucrose and starch.
Photosynthesis is the process by which most of the energy in the biosphere. is produced. Most of the carbon dioxide and the production of oxygen in. the atmosphere results from photosynthesis. The overall reaction of. Photosynthesis consists of a set of light and dark reactions. 