This current tutorial is all about showing How to Turn your Windows 8 Laptop into a WiFi Hotspot without using any third party software or tools. You can do it within couple of minutes and can access Internet on your Wireless devices in the next second. 
Windows can turn your laptop (or desktop) into a wireless hotspot, allowing your other devices to connect to it. With Internet Connection Sharing, it can share your Internet connection with those connected devices. Download Virtual Router and launch it. Provide a name for your network, enter a passphrase, and choose the connection you want to share with devices that connect to that Wi-Fi network. Click the “Start Virtual Router” button, and you’re done.
With a wired Internet connection, you can make a password-enabled Wi-Fi hotspot for your friends and neighbors to connect to without a wireless router. There is no limit to the number of devices available for hook up to your hotspot, but if too many connect through your laptop, you will likely lose connection speed. Choose Set Up a Wireless, Ad Hoc Network from the available options. Name your network and choose a password. Press the button that says, Turn on Internet Connection Sharing.. These steps enable your Wi-Fi hotspot.
Setup a Wi-Fi Hotspot Using Connectify. If you want to setup a Wi-Fi router hotspot with loads of options and a nice interface, Connectify has a great application called Hotspot that lets you easily create a hotspot from your internet connection. Download Virtual Router and launch it. Provide a name for your network, enter a passphrase, and choose the connection you want to share with devices that connect to that Wi-Fi network. Click the “Start Virtual Router” button, and you’re done.
In my last instructable I showed you how to setup a wireless hotspot using a pre-existing wired internet connection. Some of you may have wondered if it was possible to setup a wireless hotspot using a pre-existing wireless internet connection. Well wonder no more because this Instructable will show you how! Similar to my last instructable you will need: A pre-existing wireless internet connection.
5. Your Windows Wi-Fi hotspot now shows as an available network on your mobile device. After entering the password, you can use the internet connection from your PC on your tablet, laptop, or smartphone. On individual computers, Virtual Router Plus can't access the local network. The driver for your network card must support hosted networks. You check if this is the case in two simple steps. 1  Press the Windows key and R. Type CMD in the character field Open and click OK.
1 Solvedi connect to all the wifi and hotspot connections but cant connect my laptop to a specified wifi connection solution. 2  Solvedi am unable to connect my laptop with my mobile hotspot solution. 3  Solvedi got internet in tv but not in my fone how to connect tv to a fone using a tv like hotspot solution. 1 how to connect android cell phone hotspot wireless internet on windows xp solution. 2  how can i set up a wifi hotspot from my laptop and im using a usb modem.so that i can connect my smartphone through wifi.my us solution.
If your PC has no wireless adapter: Buy a USB wireless adapter and connect it: You can buy a USB Wireless LAN adapter online for less than five dollars. Insert the adapter into an available USB port and you're ready to go. Drivers are unnecessary in most cases-Windows automatically detects the device. On individual computers, Virtual Router Plus can't access the local network. The driver for your network card must support hosted networks. You check if this is the case in two simple steps. 1  Press the Windows key and R. Type CMD in the character field Open and click OK.
1 Scan for Wi-Fi networks from the device and select your hotspot from the network list. 2  The network name for Sprint Hotspot on your device will be in the form of SPH-P500 XXX. (“ 3 XXX” represents a number unique to your device.) You can change the name by tapping Sprint Hotspot settings from the Sprint Hotspot screen. Note: Connect your charger to your device if you plan to use Sprint Hotspot for an extended period. Important! Upon activation, any current Wi-Fi connection to an access point is terminated. To connect to Sprint Hotspot: 1  Enable Wi-Fi on your target device (laptop, media device, etc.). 2  Scan for Wi-Fi networks from the device and select your hotspot from the network list. 3  The network name for Sprint Hotspot on your device will be in the form of SPH-P500 XXX