Breed Characteristics. A small chicken, even a full size male Silkie Chicken weighs only 4 lbs. It is soft and fluffy and unable to fly. The Silkie Chicken has black skin and comes in a wide variety of feather colors, including black, white, blue, gray, partridge, and buff. Some Silkie Chickens are bearded and others are not. The Silkie Chicken is unlike any other and will add an eclectic flair to your backyard chicken coop. Known for its silky, fluffy feathers, the Silkie Chicken comes in full-sized and bantam varieties and is among the most docile of chicken breeds. Interesting to look at, famously friendly, and soft to the touch, this breed makes a great pet as well as a decent layer. History of the Silkie Chicken
The Silkies are sometimes also though that they can be large fowl breed in places that they are not really known in. In the American Standard of Perfection the standard male weight for the bantam Silkie is 1 kg (36 oz) and for the female, 907 g (32 oz). Silkie eggs. The Silkie (sometimes alternatively spelled Silky) is a breed of chicken named for its atypically fluffy plumage, which is said to feel like silk. The breed has several other unusual qualities, such as black skin and bones, blue earlobes, and five toes on each foot, whereas most chickens only have four.
However, even standard Silkies are relatively small chickens, with the males weighing only four pounds (1.8 kg), and females weighing three pounds (1.36 kg). The American Standard of Perfection calls for males that are 36 ounces (1 kg), and females that are 32 ounces (910 grams). Silkie eggs. The Silkie (sometimes alternatively spelled Silky) is a breed of chicken named for its atypically fluffy plumage, which is said to feel like silk. The breed has several other unusual qualities, such as black skin and bones, blue earlobes, and five toes on each foot, whereas most chickens only have four.
Silkies are often mistakenly called a bantam breed, and although they are considered bantams in some countries, this varies according to region and many breed standards class them officially as large fowl; the bantam Silkie is actually a separate variety most of the time. Silkie eggs. The Silkie (sometimes alternatively spelled Silky) is a breed of chicken named for its atypically fluffy plumage, which is said to feel like silk. The breed has several other unusual qualities, such as black skin and bones, blue earlobes, and five toes on each foot, whereas most chickens only have four.
Silkie chickens are believed to have originated from China. Their fluffy feathers, black bones and skin ensure that they are almost always kept as pet chickens for eggs. In Europe and Australia, there are both standard size silkie chickens and bantam Silkies. In the United States and Canada, the only Silkies are bantams. Subscribe to my free online keeping chickens magazine at http://www.keepingchickensnewsletter.com
Size of Americana Chickens. There are both bantam and large types of chickens of the Ameraucana breed. • Bantam weights are 30 oz (0.85 kg) for cocks and 26 oz (0.74 kg) for hens. • The large Americanas weigh in at 6.5 lb (3 kg) for cocks and 5.5 lb (2.5 kg) for hens. 
Sources: own them. Added: Silkies come in both Bantam and Standard sizes. However, the Standard size itself isn't very big with Roosters averaging 4 pounds and hens averaging 3 pounds. The Bantam variety that is more common in the US and represented in the APA, lists Roosters at 36 oz and hens at 32 oz.