Also known as a supply chain management system (SCMS), this system is really a network of businesses that share information regarding their aspect of the product manufacturing cycle. The most common place to find a supply management system is in the manufacturing sector. A commonly cited example of a supply management system is the auto manufacturing industry. It is common practice for a large firm to subcontract out specific parts, or modules, of the vehicle to independent companies. Each company is provided with the technology required to participate in the supply management system.
supply chain management (SCM) is the control of the supply chain as a process from supplier to manufacturer to wholesaler to retailer to consumer. 
Having the right raw materials, inventory, and supplies to keep you in business today and tomorrow makes managing your supply network a critical activity. Supply chain management integrates aspects of operations management, procurement, logistics, and information technology to ensure continuous, on-time resupply. As an in-stock, on-time, everything's-where-it-should-be company, your fine-tuned supply chain provides just what customers want. 
Supply chain management (SCM) is the oversight of materials, information, and finances as they move in a process from supplier to manufacturer to wholesaler to retailer to consumer. Supply chain management involves coordinating and integrating these flows both within and among companies. See complete definition. vendor-managed inventory (VMI). Vendor-managed inventory (VMI) is an inventory management technique in which a supplier of goods, usually the manufacturer, is ... See complete definition. warehouse management system (WMS). A warehouse management system (WMS) is a software application that supports the day-to-day operations in a warehouse. WMS ..
From the point of view of an enterprise, the scope of supply chain management is usually bounded on the supply side to the supplier's supplier and on the customer side by your customer's customer. According to the CSCMP, a professional association, that developed the definition, Supply Chain Management encompasses the planning and management of all activities involved in sourcing and procurement, conversion and all logistics management activities.
Supply chain management is the streamlining of a business' supply-side activities to maximize customer value and to gain a competitive advantage in the marketplace. Supply chain management (SCM) represents an effort by suppliers to develop and implement supply chains that are as efficient and economical as possible. The primary difference between supply chain management and value chain management is their view on the flow of production.
It is said that the ultimate goal of any effective supply chain management system is to reduce inventory (with the assumption that products are available when needed). See complete definition. vendor-managed inventory (VMI). Vendor-managed inventory (VMI) is an inventory management technique in which a supplier of goods, usually the manufacturer, is ... See complete definition. warehouse management system (WMS). A warehouse management system (WMS) is a software application that supports the day-to-day operations in a warehouse. WMS ..
A supply chain is an organizational system used by companies to move products from their warehouses to consumers. Some supply management software automatically generates forms for ensuring a delivery contains the correct items. View slideshow of images above. A commonly cited example of a supply management system is the auto manufacturing industry. It is common practice for a large firm to subcontract out specific parts, or modules, of the vehicle to independent companies. Each company is provided with the technology required to participate in the supply management system.
Canada’s supply management system provides balance in the dairy sector by enabling Canadian dairy farmers to act collectively to negotiate price and adjust milk production to meet consumer demand. 