I realise that this might be a bit like asking how long is a piece of string, but--. --does any one have a rough ides how long a small package sent via Royal Mail 'signed for' from the UK would take to arrive at it's destination in Aus.
Report Abuse. Melbourne to Brisbane-next working day (so posted on a Monday, should arrive Tuesday, post on a Friday and it should arrive Monday) Near Melbourne or larger centres (Ballarat or Bendigo) probably the same but not probably guarenteed. Rural could be 2 or 3 days... Bella B · 4 years ago. Thumbs up. 
0. 0. It may take 3-4 days for a letter to get from sydney, Australia to Lincoln, Nebraska depending upon the mailing services you have taken and it also depends on the size of the letter or package that has been mailed over. (Sidq2_Jawad). it took 8 days to arrive in sydney cbd via usps first class international.... 0. 0. I bought a waterproof camera case from Florida USA on eBay (seller: landloop) It was a small parcel 4x10x20cm. It took 8 days to arrive in Sydney CBD via USPS First Class I
Flying time from Melbourne, Australia to Brisbane, Australia. The total flight duration from Melbourne, Australia to Brisbane, Australia is 2 hours, 12 minutes. This assumes an average flight speed for a commercial airliner of 500 mph, which is equivalent to 805 km/h or 434 knots. It also adds an extra 30 minutes for take-off and landing. 
4 hours to 5 hours based on stopover city. This is the average non-stop flight time from Brisbane to any of the 3 airports in Melbourne. Apparantly, connecting flights and direct flights with stopover take longer time than non-stop flights. The nearest airport to Brisbane, is Brisbane International Airport (BNE) and the nearest airport to Melbourne, is Tullamarine Airport (MEL). Find flights from Brisbane to cities and airports near Melbourne. Distance from Brisbane to Melbourne is approximately 1380 kilometers.
Then most Brisbane to the closest metro city of the destination, then another day or 2 for the receiver. In saying that, I sent something from Dalby 4405 to Esperance, WA and it was there in 2 days. While another time, I sent something from Dalby to Saddleworth, SA via Express Post and it was 5 days. 
Best Answer: if you live in a city of Australia hopefully 5 to 7 days but if you live in a country area it will take longer. also who really knows when the seller posted it. but this is pot luck. I have waited 10 days to get a letter from the next suburb to me. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: probably anywhere from 1 to 3 days but mail might be a bit slow at the moment because of the cyclone, i been waiting over a week for my mail from queensland that should of only taken a few days. Source(s): jesus · 5 years ago. Thumbs up. 
How long does it take to drive from Melbourne to Brisbane? From Melbourne to Brisbane by road is a distance of 1674km (1040  miles) and takes about 19 hours to travel. This is without rest  breaks so, ideally, the trip should be tak … en over at least two  days. If you walk 20km a day, everyday, it will take just over 46 days. If you walk 30km a day it will take 31 days. If y … ou cover 40km in one day, everyday, it will take just over 23 days. Along the New England Highway it is 969km from Sydney to Brisbane. That will take 48 and a half days travelling 20km per day. If you cover 30km per day it's over 32 days and 40km a day will get you there in just over 24