Agogo (a word from the Yoruba language meaning 'bell') are a single or multiple bell now used throughout the world but with origins in traditional Yoruba music and also in the samba baterias (percussion ensembles) of Latin America. Apitua and Agogo are metal African bells. Grello are more like castanets as they are played on two of the fingers. All are usually made of iron and are percussion instruments used to establish and drive rhythm and to add texture and variety to music.
Bells are not made from wood because they aren't sonorous. But metals are sonorous.   SonorousMost metals produce a ringing sound when struck, that is, they are sonorous. The Japanese Peace Bell was a gift from the Japanese people to the  United Nation. The United Nations received this gift on June 8th,  1954. The Japanese Peace Bell is made … 256 pounds of coins that were  collected by delegates from 60 different nations.
An agogo (Agogô: yoruba, agogo meaning) bell is a single or multiple bell now used throughout the world but with origins in Traditional yoruba music and also in the samba (baterias percussion). Ensembles the agogo agogô may be the oldest samba instrument and was Based On West african yoruba single or. double bells Pattern 1 is used in maculele maculelê and Some candomble Candomblé and. Macumba rhythms bell 2 is used in afoxe afoxê and can be thought of as pattern 1 embellished with. Four additional strokes bell 3 is. Used in batucada pattern 4 is the maracatu bell and can be thought of as pattern 1 embellished with. f
Agogo. Agogô translated To, English agogo agogô means a gong or. A bell sometimes it is Called the. Brazillian cowbells it was first used In The yoruba music was considered a symbol of power all over the central Part of Africa. and nigeria It was first used in the Yoruba Music was considered a symbol of power all over the central part of Africa and Nigeria. Now it is used not only in Capoeira but in Samba as well. The Agogo may consist of 1 or up to 4 bells made by wood or metal and a wooden stick to strike the bells.
Construction [edit]. Each bell is a different size. This allows a differently pitched note to be produced depending on which bell has been hit. Originally wrought iron, they are now manufactured in a variety of metals and sizes for different sound qualities. The most common arrangement is two bells attached by a U shaped piece of metal. Pattern 1 is used in maculele maculelê and Some candomble Candomblé and. Macumba rhythms bell 2 is used in afoxe afoxê and can be thought of as pattern 1 embellished with. Four additional strokes bell 3 is. Used in batucada pattern 4 is the maracatu bell and can be thought of as pattern 1 embellished with. f
Translated to English, Agogo agogô means a gong or a. Bell sometimes it is called The brazillian. Cowbells it was first used in The Yoruba music was considered a symbol of power all over the central part Of africa And. nigeria It was first used in the Yoruba Music was considered a symbol of power all over the central part of Africa and Nigeria. Now it is used not only in Capoeira but in Samba as well. The Agogo may consist of 1 or up to 4 bells made by wood or metal and a wooden stick to strike the bells.
1 The melodic two toned agogo bells, originally of African origin are used in samba to create complex interlocking rhythms by striking the bells with a stick and also clacking the bells together on the flexible handle. 2  We have agogos from Gope, Contemporanea, Remo, LP, Liverpool and Pearl. 1 Add to compare. 2  Compare | Remove. 3 
Wood blocks. Agogos, or agogo bells originate from Brazil and are generally a two or three chambered steel instrument The can also be made of wood. Agogos are hand percussion and beaten like a cow bell, and are frequently heard in samba and salsa music
An agogo (Agogô: yoruba, agogo meaning) bell is a single or multiple bell now used throughout the world but with origins in Traditional yoruba music and also in the samba (baterias percussion). ensembles Pattern 1 is used in maculele maculelê and Some candomble Candomblé and. Macumba rhythms bell 2 is used in afoxe afoxê and can be thought of as pattern 1 embellished with. Four additional strokes bell 3 is. Used in batucada pattern 4 is the maracatu bell and can be thought of as pattern 1 embellished with. f
Translated to English, Agogo agogô means a gong or a. Bell sometimes it is called The brazillian. Cowbells it was first used in The Yoruba music was considered a symbol of power all over the central part Of africa And. Nigeria now it is used not only In capoeira but In samba as. well It was first used in the Yoruba Music was considered a symbol of power all over the central part of Africa and Nigeria. Now it is used not only in Capoeira but in Samba as well. The Agogo may consist of 1 or up to 4 bells made by wood or metal and a wooden stick to strike the bells.