NEW ORLEANS — Even smokeless cigarettes may cause damage that can lead to hardening of the arteries, a new study implies. Vascular smooth muscle cells wrap around blood vessels and help control blood flow and pressure. But inflammation and chemicals, such as those found in cigarette smoke, can turn the cells into miniature drills that chew through connective tissue, allowing muscle cells to burrow into blood vessels. Once inside, the cells and other debris clump into artery-clogging plaques. Nicotine is one chemical that helps turn normal muscle cells into invaders, Chi-Ming Hai, a physiologist at Brown University in Providence, R.I., reported December 15 at the American Society for Cell Biology’s annual meeting
It also causes the arteries to narrow. Carbon monoxide reduces the amount of oxygen the blood can carry. This, combined with the effects produced by nicotine, creates an imbalance in the demand for oxygen by the cells and the amount of oxygen the blood is able to supply. First, carbon monoxide may damage the inner walls of the arteries that encourages the buildup of fat on these walls. Over time, this causes the vessels to narrow and harden. Nicotine may also contribute to this process. Smoking also causes several changes in the blood
Blood is a vehicle for delivering oxygen and nutrients to our body's tissues and organs. Without it they die. Our blood vessels (our circulatory system) are blood piping highways. The inside of each healthy blood vessel is coated with a thin Teflon like layer of cells that ensure smooth blood flow. Carbon monoxide from smoking or second-hand smoke damages this important layer of cells, allowing fats and plaque to stick to vessel walls. Nicotine then performs a double whammy of sorts. First, each time new nicotine arrives in our brain it causes the body to activate its fight or flight stress defenses.
Nicotine Study's Results. The mice exposed to smoke from cigarettes with higher levels of nicotine developed more plaque buildup in their arteries than the mice exposed to smoke from low-nicotine cigarettes. But the researchers say the findings may help explain why smoking is a risk factor for heart disease. The best thing to do is quit smoking, says Daniel Catanzaro, PhD, of Cornell University's Weill Medical College, in a news release.
What else does nicotine do to the body? When a person smokes a cigarette, the body responds immediately to the chemical nicotine in the smoke. Nicotine causes a short-term increase in blood pressure, heart rate, and the flow of blood from the heart. First, carbon monoxide may damage the inner walls of the arteries that encourages the buildup of fat on these walls. Over time, this causes the vessels to narrow and harden. Nicotine may also contribute to this process. Smoking also causes several changes in the blood
Sept. 14, 2007 -- New research shows that nicotine from cigarette smoke may promote hardening of the arteries (atherosclerosis), even with low-nicotine cigarettes. Atherosclerosis makes heart attacks more likely. The new study focuses on mice, not people. But the researchers say the findings may help explain why smoking is a risk factor for heart disease. The best thing to do is quit smoking, says Daniel Catanzaro, PhD, of Cornell University's Weill Medical College, in a news release. That's easy to say but often hard to do
Atherosclerosis, or hardening of the arteries, is a condition in which plaque builds up inside the arteries. Plaque is made of cholesterol, fatty substances, cellular waste products, calcium and fibrin (a clotting material in the blood). Atherosclerosis is a type of arteriosclerosis. 
Smoking cigarettes is known to contribute to the development of atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis occurs when there is narrowing and clogging of the arteries which reduces blood supply, and the amount of oxygen available, throughout the body. Smoking Clogs Your Arteries. Smoking cigarettes is known to contribute to the development of atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis occurs when there is narrowing and clogging of the arteries which reduces blood supply, and the amount of oxygen available, throughout the body. 1.
Atherosclerosis: You already know it's bad news. Hardening of the arteries is a leading cause of sickness and death in the United States. In 2005, roughly 870,000 people in this country died of cardiovascular disease largely caused by atherosclerotic problems. That's almost double the number of deaths from all cancers. Fatty plaque deposits often form at artery branch points, where blood flows more turbulently. True, plaques may be scattered throughout various arteries, but they're more common at branch points, scientists believe. The turbulent blood flow increases risk of injury to artery linings.