Michaela (Hebrew מיכאלה) is a feminine given name. It is a feminine form of the Hebrew name Michael (מִיכָאֵל), which means Who is like God?. It was rare in any country until it became fashionable in Germany, Austria and Switzerland in the 1950s to 1970s. 
[ 3 syll. ma-kay-la, mak-a- yla ] The baby girl name Makayla is pronounced M AA K EY-Laa †. Makayla is of Hebrew origin and it is predominantly used in the English language. Makayla is a form of Michaela. Makayla is a popular baby name for girls. The name has been increasing in popularity since the 1980s; prior to that, it was of only sporadic use. At the modest height of its usage in 2008, 0.286% of baby girls were given the name Makayla.
A Mykayla is a girl who is good at singing, and beautiful. The name often show's possession. MY Kayla, you see? (Talk about modernism...) Mykayla's are also very logical, they keep a planner for organization, and work hard at everything. 
The number 7 is the most mystical of all numbers. Seven is the number of a Soul and symbolizes Spiritual Victory, quest for higher truth. In silence, peace and self-examination we go toward perfection. In a criticism of others, suspicion, judgment, and sharp practice, we create our obstacles and difficulties. 7 Your Hidden Passion Number. The Hidden Passion Number represents your hidden talent. It shapes your personality, and guides your life. There are also the Karmic Lessons Numbers, associated with your full name (first name, middle name and last name) as it spelled in your birth certificate.
Mikayla means a very special,talented,kind,beautifull girl. Mikayla is a beautiful glowing talented smart girl.I have a freind named mikayla. Mikayla means a very very very very beautiful girl that has lots of talents like singing and dancing n playing instrument. You guys don't really need to tell anyone what it means, just love who you are and enjoy life while you have it. 
[ syll. my-kay-la, myk-a- yla ] The baby girl name Mykayla is pronounced as M AY K EY-LAH †. Mykayla is used predominantly in English and it is derived from Hebrew origins. In addition, Mykayla is a variation (English) of Michaela. Both the origin and meaning of Mykayla is inherited by all variant forms. Mykayla is uncommon as a baby name for girls. It is not listed within the top 1000 names
You can carry on for others with joy. You have a receptive nature and may bear burdens for others. You are pragmatic, thorough, strong-willed, practical and stubborn at times. You are hard working, often martyr to duty. You like home and security above all.You are inventive, intuitive and extremely methodical. 7 Your Hidden Passion Number. The Hidden Passion Number represents your hidden talent. It shapes your personality, and guides your life. There are also the Karmic Lessons Numbers, associated with your full name (first name, middle name and last name) as it spelled in your birth certificate.