Cottonmouth snakes are residents of the United States alone. They are prevalent especially in the southeastern region of the nation. The geographic scope of these reptiles includes Tennessee, South Carolina, North Carolina, Kentucky, Alabama, Texas, Virginia, Louisiana, Florida, Arkansas and Mississippi. Outside of the south, cottonmouths also occur in Indiana, Illinois, Kansas and Missouri. Some of these reptiles also inhabit offshore locales
The cottonmouth (Agkistrodon piscivorus) is a semiaquatic snake of the genus Agkistrodon. These venomous reptiles also often are known by the name water moccasin.. Cottonmouths are large, hefty snakes that usually are deep brown or black in coloration. They are prevalent especially in the southeastern region of the nation. The geographic scope of these reptiles includes Tennessee, South Carolina, North Carolina, Kentucky, Alabama, Texas, Virginia, Louisiana, Florida, Arkansas and Mississippi.
Cottonmouth Appearance: Cottonmouth snakes, otherwise known as water moccasins, are a medium sized snake, often growing to be four feet in length, and I've even seen up to five feet. They are generally a dark shade of brown or a dull black and will occasionally have lighter banding visible on their sides. Like all pit vipers, the cottonmouth snake has two heat sensing pits located between the eyes and the nostrils. These pits allow the snake to pinpoint live prey and to strike without the need of a visual.
Habitat, diet, life cycle and hibernation. The Cottonmouth snake, or (Agkistrodon piscivorus), is one that many refer to by names such as the Water Moccasin, or a combination of variations: Cottonmouth Moccasin, Highland Water Moccasin, and North American Water Moccasin. Cottonmouths darken with age, and at some point, the bands become obscured. Similar to the Copperhead snake, these snakes have a slightly green hue on the tip of their tails. The Cottonmouth snake is the most aquatic of the Agkistrodon, although is able to survive as far as one mile away from water 1.
Description: Cottonmouths are venomous semi-aquatic snakes often referred to as water moccasins. They have large, triangular heads with a dark line through the eye, elliptical pupils, and large jowls due to the venom glands. Conservation Status: Cottonmouths are fairly common and are not listed at the state, federal, or heritage level. However, in many parts of their range they are killed by humans. Cottonmouths travel overland and will migrate between areas in response to drought.
A water moccasin eats a bullfrog. The snake's diet consists of fish, small mammals, birds and amphibians; reptiles such as lizards, baby alligators and turtles; and other snakes, including smaller water moccasins. The name 'cottonmouth' comes from the white coloration of the inside of the snake's mouth, she said. Other local names include black moccasin, gaper, mangrove rattler, snap jaw, stub-tail snake, swamp lion, trap jaw, water mamba and water pilot.
Both water moccasin and cottonmouth are common names for Agkistrodon piscivorus, according to Sara Viernum, a herpetologist based in Madison, Wisconsin. The name 'cottonmouth' comes from the white coloration of the inside of the snake's mouth, she said. Other local names include black moccasin, gaper, mangrove rattler, snap jaw, stub-tail snake, swamp lion, trap jaw, water mamba and water pilot.