A common bankruptcy myth is that it takes seven (7) years after filing bankruptcy before you can get new credit. This is simply untrue. Any kind of bankruptcy can be reported on your credit for up to ten (10) years but this does not mean that you can’t obtain new credit during the ten (10) year period. How soon after filing a chapter 7 bankruptcy can you buy a new house? Our experience has been that it takes two years after your discharge in order to get a decent mortgage. You may be able to get a mortgage sooner, but your interest rate will not be as low as it would be if you wait 2 years.
Baroco, There is no set time to after a short that a new lender will wait until approving a home loan for you. Two main factors affect your credit after a short sale. The first is based on how many mortgage payments you may have missed. The second is based on how your lender reports your short sale on your credit. It can be confusing and deflating to consumers who have to wait 3 -7 years after the unfortunate incident of a Foreclosure or 3-4 years after a Short sale and be able to Purchase and or Refinance again.
Great question. I am 23 and just bought my house actually (2 months ago I closed on my loan). Now is definitely the best time to buy, and I bought my house after 6 months of working at my first job. The important thing isn't how long you have to wait, but rather how much you have saved up. -You need to save for a down payment (minimum is 3.5% on an FHA loan) -You need to save for closing costs (roughly $5,000 +/- $1,000) depending on the amount of your loan. - You also need to save for an emergency fund
You don't have to wait forever after short sale. You can buy a new home in less than 2 years. I did! My Realtor turned me on the the Flexible Credit Loan, http://www.cfsflex.com. It seemed too good to be true, but I got approved and now have a pending offer, even after my short sale less than two years ago. Big banks said it could not be done. If you have sold your house as short sale but you have never been late on the mortgage payments, you can buy right away. FHA will allow you to borrow if you otherwise qualify. If you are in default on your mortgage at the time of the short sale, expect to wait three years before attempting to qualify for an FHA loan.
Buying a House with a Conventional Loan TWO years after a short sale with 20% down payment. You can buy a house after two years with a 20% down payment using a conventional loan. While waiting 2 years after your short sale, you should get to work on improving your credit rating and saving for down payment. The standard wait time to buy a house after a short sale with a minimum of 5% down payment using a conventional loan is 4 years after a short sale (or 7 years after foreclosure).
You don't have to wait..... We have a portfolio 2nd Chance loan that allows you to buy again just one day after Short-Sale or Foreclosure. You can only have one on your credit and you will need a 20% down-payment and 660 mid FICO score. If you have sold your house as short sale but you have never been late on the mortgage payments, you can buy right away. FHA will allow you to borrow if you otherwise qualify. If you are in default on your mortgage at the time of the short sale, expect to wait three years before attempting to qualify for an FHA loan.
If you do not qualify for the FHA back to work program with 1 year wait after a short sale and you have saved 25% to 30% down payment, there are lenders willing to finance your home purchase with just 1 year waiting period after a short sale. The standard wait time to buy a house after a short sale with a minimum of 5% down payment using a conventional loan is 4 years after a short sale (or 7 years after foreclosure).
Buying a House with a Conventional Loan TWO years after a short sale with 10% down payment and extenuating circumstance. You may be able to buy a house 2 years after a short sale with 10% downpayment if you can document and verify acceptable extenuating circumstances prior to your short sale. The standard wait time to buy a house after a short sale with a minimum of 5% down payment using a conventional loan is 4 years after a short sale (or 7 years after foreclosure).
Your wait time to buy a house and qualify for a mortgage after a short sale in 2015 could only be 12 months to 24 months if you can prove that you have extenuating circumstances that led to your short sale. The standard wait time to buy a house after a short sale with a minimum of 5% down payment using a conventional loan is 4 years after a short sale (or 7 years after foreclosure).