The most common type of bedbug that bites human is the Cimex Lectularius. It is found in North America, Europe and Central Asia. They are not known to transmit any diseases to humans. Bedbugs infestations were common in the United States before WWII.
You really don’t have to unpack your luggage on your bed for bed bugs to ” set up a house in a bed”, bed bugs travel towards your bed even there were not initially on your bed. ” It is a new problem. Actually, no. Bedbugs like to live in wood and fabric, close to their food supply, which is us.
New statistics from the city's Department of Housing, Preservation and Development reveal an epidemic: Manhattanites have been complaining about bed bugs at six times the rate they did in 2005. On Staten Island, the number of complaints has soared 32 times higher than it was five years ago.
Also, bed bugs are great at multiplying. Female bed bugs can lay up to 5 eggs in a single day and can lay up to 500 eggs during a lifetime. Perhaps your area of the country does not have a problem with bed bugs yet, but this epidemic is spreading.
Follow. Housing authorities in Madrid are complaining of “a plague of bedbugs” and called for extra measures to tackle the troublesome parasites. According to pest control experts, the reports of bedbug infestations across Spain have risen by 70 per cent within five years and is now bordering on an “epidemic”.
There is a full blown bed bug epidemic happening all across America and it just seems to get worse with each passing year. For cities such as New York and Philadelphia which are at the epicenter of the outbreak, bed bugs have become an important political issue.
Bedbugs, which bite humans and suck their blood, were considered virtually extinct in western Europe for at least fifty years. Their reappearance across Spain over the last ten years has been blamed on the increase in mass tourism. “They can occur anywhere, even the most luxurious hotel,” said Ms Fernandez de Lezeta.
There is a full blown bed bug epidemic happening all across America and it just seems to get worse with each passing year. For cities such as New York and Philadelphia which are at the epicenter of the outbreak, bed bugs have become an important political issue.