Whenever you book an air holiday with a UK travel company you should receive an ATOL certificate-confirming your holiday is fully protected even if the travel company collapses. So if you're booking a holiday involving flights, remember to check you'll receive an ATOL certificate before you hand over any money. ATOL. Booking your air holiday with an ATOL protected company means you have peace of mind the money you've paid is safe. Booking an air holiday without ATOL protection could leave you out of pocket or stranded if something goes wrong.
Look at the website, look in brochures, and look for the ATOL logo-on that will be an ATOL number. Now that ATOL number is a unique licence number granted by the CAA to that travel company, and it means they have a valid licence. The second step is then to look on our website. On that website you can check that number or you can check the firm's name, and that will confirm to you that the firm is protected. 
There are several ways you can check to make sure that your holiday and travel arrangements are protected by ATOL. 1  When you are looking to book your holiday or travel arrangements, you should look for the ATOL logo and the unique ATOL licence number for the travel Company. Why Check For ATOL Protection. Most people go on holiday each year and this is not a cheap practice. Booking a holiday is an expensive process and when you book your holiday and hand over your hard earned cash, you want to know that your money is safe.
Most overseas air holidays booked with UK travel companies must be protected, but there are a few ways to check: 1  Before you book, check for the ATOL logo on travel company websites and promotional materials. 2  If you're unsure, ask your travel company or agent to tell you about ATOL. Booking with travel firms which don't offer ATOL protection. European travel agencies who sell holidays-including flights-in the UK are not required by law to hold an ATOL licence, meaning that when you book with them you're not covered by the same
What is Protected. Most ‘Air Holidays’ that are booked in the UK are ATOL protected. How To Check Whether Your Holiday Is ATOL Protected and these include: 1  Flights and Accommodation, this also includes a cruise. 2  Flights and Car Hire. 3  Flights Accommodation and Car Hire. Why Check For ATOL Protection. Most people go on holiday each year and this is not a cheap practice. Booking a holiday is an expensive process and when you book your holiday and hand over your hard earned cash, you want to know that your money is safe.
1 Double-check the travel company has ATOL protection before you book. 2  Once you've confirmed this and paid for your holiday, make sure you get an ATOL certificate. 3  Check the ATOL is legitimate. 4  To do this you should find the reference number on it. 
Go online to see if other people have commented on their services and check the company is a member of ABTA. • If you are booking a flight-based package make sure your travel company is ATOL (Air Travel Organisers’ Licensing) protected by the Civil Aviation Authority. • Get everything in writing and make sure your flight details, accommodation and Hajj visa are valid. ATOL. Booking your air holiday with an ATOL protected company means you have peace of mind the money you've paid is safe. Booking an air holiday without ATOL protection could leave you out of pocket or stranded if something goes wrong.
Your ATOL certificate is proof that the holiday you've booked is protected by the ATOL scheme and is your guarantee of protection. It will tell you: 1  What's protected by ATOL. 2  Who's covered. 3  Who's providing this protection (the travel company's name and ATOL number). 4  What to do if your travel company stops operating. Booking with travel firms which don't offer ATOL protection. European travel agencies who sell holidays-including flights-in the UK are not required by law to hold an ATOL licence, meaning that when you book with them you're not covered by the same
Overseas air holidays booked with UK travel companies must be protected. There are several ways to check: Look before you book. Check for the ATOL logo on travel company websites, brochures and advertisements. If you’re not sure, ask your travel company or agent to tell you about ATOL protection. Use our ATOL search. This allows you to check that the travel company you’re booking with is backed by ATOL. Make sure you’re given an ATOL certificate. I’ve been given an ATOL certificate. Your ATOL certificate is proof that the holiday you have booked is protected by ATOL. It explains what protection you have and what to do if your travel company collapses. See a sample ATOL certificate.