The part of the limbic system shown is that which is along the left side of the thalamus (hippocampus and amygdala) and just under the front of the thalamus (hypothalamus): Hypothalamus. The hypothalamus is a small part of the brain located just below the thalamus on both sides of the third ventricle.
The hypothalamus is one of the busiest parts of the brain, and is mainly concerned with homeostasis. Homeostasis is the process of returning something to some “set point.” It works like a thermostat: When your room gets too cold, the thermostat conveys that information to the furnace and turns it on.
Hippocampus. The hippocampus is another part of the limbic system that sends information to the amygdala. One of the memory processing centers of the brain, the hippocampus interacts with the amygdala when a person has memories with emotional ties.
The limbic system is generally understood to be the main area of the brain responsible for emotions-but there is some controversy in the neuropsychology field as to whether emotions really can be ascribed to any one specific area.
The brain is the most complicated organ in our body. Various parts of the brain control different types of emotions. When all these parts work properly, it makes us emotionally healthy and stable. Malfunctions, however, can lead to severe emotional problems.
The cerebrum is the largest portion of the brain, and contains tools which are responsible for most of the brain's function. It is divided into four sections: the temporal lobe, the occipital lobe, parietal lobe and frontal lobe.
Many parts of the brain contribute to emotion, but the Amygdala is usually considered to be the correct answer to this question. The Amygdala stores and classifies emotional m … emories and is responsible for producing emotional responses, especially fear. 6 people found this useful.
While the limbic system is made up of multiple parts of the brain, the center of emotional processing is the amygdala, which receives input from other brain functions, like memory and attention.
The limbic system is composed of structures in the brain that deal with emotions (such as anger, happiness and fear) as well as memories. This article will address the limbic system, its parts and their functions in the human body.