In the modern idiom the surname can be found recorded as Ford, Foord, Foard, Forth and Forder. One Charles Ford was an early emigrant to the American colonies, leaving London on the Paule, in July 1635 bound for Virginia. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Bruman de la Forda, which was dated 1066, in the Book of Winton, Hampshire (included in the Domesday Book of 1086), during the reign of King William 1, known as William the Conqueror, 1066 - 1087.
In some cases the modern surname may be locational in origin, deriving from one of the many places named with the Olde English ford, as above, such as those in Herefordshire, Northumberland, Shropshire, Somerset and Sussex. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Bruman de la Forda, which was dated 1066, in the Book of Winton, Hampshire (included in the Domesday Book of 1086), during the reign of King William 1, known as William the Conqueror, 1066 - 1087.
Crawford is a surname (and occasional given name) of British origin. In some cases it is a habitational name derived from several different places called Crawford (for example Crawford, South Lanarkshire, Scotland; Dorset, England; and Somerset, England). The placename is derived from the Old English elements crāwe ( crow ) and ford ( ford ). 
Meaning & History. From a surname which was derived from a place name meaning ford in Old English. A famous bearer of the surname was the American industrialist Henry Ford (1863-1947).
The surname Ford comes from the English word ford, which is the word for a shallow place at which one can cross a river or stream. Just copied this from a website: This interesting surname is of Old French origin, and has two possible sources; firstly, it may be an occupational name for the gatekeeper of … a town, or a doorkeeper of a large house, deriving from the Middle English porter, a development of the Old French portier.
Meaning of Ford. Ford Meaning: dweller or worker at a stream crossing; one who came from Ford (shallow river crossing), the name of several places in England. 
Ford /ford/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced ford. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Ford is  river crossing. Ford is an unusual first name for men but a very prominent last name for both adults and children (#124 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Ford for boys. Ford reached its apex rank of #611 in the U.S. during the years 1890-1899, and is at #883 currently
This ancient name is of Anglo-Saxon origin, and is one of the earliest topographical surnames still in existence. The name derives from the Olde English pre 7th Century ford, ford, a shallow place in a river of water where men and animals could wade across. The term was used as a topographical name for someone who lived near a ford. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Bruman de la Forda, which was dated 1066, in the Book of Winton, Hampshire (included in the Domesday Book of 1086), during the reign of King William 1, known as William the Conqueror, 1066 - 1087.