The definition of a forename is a person's first name. An example of forename is Beverly. a given name; personal name; name before the surname. noun. 
Report Abuse. Your first name is your given name, the one chosen for you by your parents. Your last name is your family name or your clan/tribe name, this is given to you based on the family name of your parents. For example, George Bush: George is the first (given) name and Bush is the last (Family) name. the name of a person is called first name and surname of a person is called last name.example,vishal patil,here vishal is first name and patil is second name. superstar · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
Best Answer: Let us go by the dictionary: First name or Given name: Both mean the same and it is a personal name given to someone after birth or baptism as the case may be. The person is usually called by this name. None in the family has this name. Family name or Last name or Surname: Again, all three mean the same and it is the name common to all memebers of a family (in India it is usually the caste or clan or race). Middle name: It is an additional name placed before the surname and after the first nam
1. 'first name'. Your first name is the name that was given to you when you were born. Your first name comes in front of your surname. At some point in the conversation Brian began calling Philip by his first name. On official forms, you are usually asked to write your surname and your first name or forename. Forename is only used in writing. 4. 'given name'. In American English, given name is sometimes used instead of 'first name' or 'forename'.
If we had only on name then there would have been more confusion. So surname identifies us with our family and forename is our own name. Surname also gives information about one's family background, lineage, profession, culture, nationality, etc. In some cultures people use their own name, then father's forename and then surname. In some cultures people use name of their village/town as their surname. Surname is generally written at the end.
In some cultures people use surname of their father and in some they use surname of mother. In some cultures people use their own name, then father's forename and then surname. In some cultures people use name of their village/town as their surname. Surname is generally written at the end. But in scienfic journals surname is wirtten before the forename
A surname or family name is a name added to a given name. In many cases, a surname is a family name and many dictionaries define surname as a synonym of family name.. In the western hemisphere, it is commonly synonymous with last name because it is usually placed at the end of a person's given name. In some cultures, including those of most Western countries, the surname or family name (last name) is placed after the personal or given name (first name). In other cultures the surname is placed first, followed by the given name or names.
Definition of FORENAME. : a name that precedes one's surname. See forename defined for English-language learners. See forename defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
1. forename-the name that precedes the surname. first name, given name. name-a language unit by which a person or thing is known; his name really is George Washington; those are two names for the same thing. baptismal name, Christian name-the first name given to Christians at birth or christening. On official forms, you are usually asked to write your surname and your first name or forename. Forename is only used in writing. 4. 'given name'. In American English, given name is sometimes used instead of 'first name' or 'forename'.
Your first name and your given name are the same. This would be what your friends and parents call you.In your case, I think your first name is Kumar. Your last name or your surname or your family name is the name that all members of your family share. The person is usually called by this name. None in the family has this name. Family name or Last name or Surname: Again, all three mean the same and it is the name common to all memebers of a family (in India it is usually the caste or clan or race).