The Solar geyser – how it works. This is the basic concept of the solar geyser..Cold water from the house is fed through the collectors (the pipes that you see on the frame) and it is heated by the sun. It then creates a flow of water to and from the tank. As the natural laws of heat and cold apply, the hot water rises to the top of the tank and the cold water sinks to the bottom. The outlet tap is positioned on the top of the tank and this ensures that hot water is always on tap.
In simple terms, a solar water heating system or solar geyser captures solar energy emitted from the sun and uses this to produce your home’s hot water. The two main components of the system are the solar collector which heats up the water and the geyser which stores this hot water ready for consumption. 
A solar geyser relies on solar radiation (sunshine) and warm water rising, a phenomenon known as natural convection (Thermo siphoned), to circulate water through flat plate collector and to the tank. Hot water storage tank is located above the flat plate collector (absorber). 
In order for your conventional 150 litre electric geyser to heat 300 litres it will need to work on a cycle and heat the extra body of water as well. How does Solar Water Heating Work? Solar water heating systems include storage tanks and solar collectors. A solar water heater is a combination of three elements: 1. A solar collector is an energy device that is designed to absorb solar radiation and transfer the energy to the energy transfer fluid or material passing through the collector.
How solar water heater systems work. A typical household solar geyser system consists of a solar panel with a heat transfer fluid flowing through it to transport the heat energy collected to somewhere useful, usually a hot water tank or household radiator.
Solar geysers work on the principle of concentration of heat to warm up the water, the heat is concentrated using mirrors and other techniques, and this heat is then used to heat up the water in the geyser. This is because once installed the solar geyser does not need any running cost as it runs on the abundance of energy available from the sun in our atmosphere thus solar geysers ease a bit of tension on your pockets as in the average home, the geyser is one of the largest consumers of electricity in your home.
Solar geysers could be direct or indirect. A direct solar geyser is one that works on its own without being connected to an external geyser and on the contrary an indirect solar geyser is connected to another geyser most probably electric powered. This is because once installed the solar geyser does not need any running cost as it runs on the abundance of energy available from the sun in our atmosphere thus solar geysers ease a bit of tension on your pockets as in the average home, the geyser is one of the largest consumers of electricity in your home.
Domestic Solar Geysers. Solar Geyser Direct relies on warm water rising, a phenomenon known as natural convection, to circulate water through the flat plate collector and to the tank. The hot water storage tank is located above the flat plate or in the roof. 
A solar hot water system consists of a geyser and solar panel. The combination of the two allows you to use the FREE energy from the sun to heat your water, thus enabling you to significantly cut down or in some cases eliminate the need for electrical or gas heating. The solar controller acts as a timer switch for your geyser. To maximize electricity savings, it only allows the geyser’s electrical element, to switch on in preset times, should the days solar energy not have provided enough energy to heat the water as required.
Solar Geysers, or solar water heaters, operate on a principle called Thermo-siphoning which, put simply, is a process of natural thermal convection. This is a process which causes warm water to rise, and cooler water to drop to the lowest point. (Try this experiment: Take a transparent glass, heat-resistant, jug. Fill it with boiling water. Hold it to the light and watch the 'heat waves' moving down along the outer edges of the water in the jug.