Among craniates, the most primitive are the hagfishes. Hagfishes do not have a bony skull. Instead their skull is made up of cartilage, a strong but flexible substance that consists of the protein keratin. Hagfishes are the only living animal that have a skull but lack a backbone or vertebral column. The first known craniates were marine animals that evolved about 480 million years ago. These early craniates are thought to have diverged from lancelets. As embryos, craniates have a unique tissue called the neural crest. Craniates, like all chordates, develop a notochord that is present in hagfishes and lampreys but which disappears in most vertebrates where it is replaced by the vertebral column. All craniates have an internal skeleton, also called an endoskeleton. The endoskeleton is made up of either cartilage or calcified bone
Vertebral column of a goat. The vertebral column, also known as the backbone or spine, is a bony skeletal structure found in vertebrates. It is formed from individual bones called vertebrae (singular: vertebra), which houses the spinal canal, a cavity that encloses and protects the spinal cord. There about 50,000 species of animals that have a vertebral column. The human vertebral column is one of the most-studied examples.
Animals that lack such a column are called invertebrates. There are more than 1 million known species (kinds) of invertebrates and about 40,000 species of vertebrates. Most vertebrates have a spinal column made of bones called vertebrae. But some, such as the shark, do not have a bony spinal column. Sharks have vertebrae made of cartilage. All vertebrates are bilaterally symmetrical-that is, the left and right sides of the body are alike. Those bones are called vertebrae so the animals are vertebrates. The animals that do not have backbones are called invertebrates. Some examples of vertebrates include human beings, cats, dogs, fish, elephants, and chickens.
Most vertebrates have a spinal column made of bones called vertebrae (see SPINE). But some, such as the shark, do not have a bony spinal column. Sharks have vertebrae made of cartilage. Vertebrates are classified in the phylum chordata and make up the subphylum vertebrata. Those bones are called vertebrae so the animals are vertebrates. The animals that do not have backbones are called invertebrates. Some examples of vertebrates include human beings, cats, dogs, fish, elephants, and chickens.
There are about 57,000 species of vertebrates alive today, which accounts for about 3% of all known species on our planet. The other 97% of species alive today are invertebrates. Vertebrates have a vertebral column in which the notochord is replaced by multiple vertebrae that form a backbone. The vertebrae surround and protect a nerve cord and provide the animal with structural support. 1 Lampreys are jawless vertebrates that have a long narrow body. 2  They lack scales and have a sucker-like mouth. 3  Tetrapods (Tetrapoda) - There are about 23,000 species of tetrapods alive today. 4  Members of this group include birds, mammals, amphibians, and reptiles.
All vertebrates are built along the basic chordate body plan: a stiff rod running through the length of the animal (vertebral column or notochord), with a hollow tube of nervous tissue (the spinal cord) above it and the gastrointestinal tract below. A bony fish clade known as the lobe-finned fishes is included with tetrapods, which are further divided into amphibians, reptiles, mammals, and birds. Extant vertebrates range in size from the frog species Paedophryne amauensis, at as little as 7.7 mm (0.30 in), to the blue whale, at up to 33 m (108 ft). Vertebrates make up about 4% of all described animal species; the rest are invertebrates, which lack vertebral columns
The species that lacks a vertebral column or “spine,” invertebrates comprise over 95% of all known animal species. Invertebrates include spiders, bees, worms, jellyfish, lobster, and snails. 