Report Abuse. The phosphate ion, PO3, has a net negative three charge, and both sodium and hydrogen ions have net positive one charges. Therefore, the formula for sodium hydrogen phosphate must be either NaH2PO3 or Na2HPO3. Usually, a prefix is used to indicate which one you are talking about; the first would be sodium dihydrogen phosphate, the second would be disodium hydrogen phosphate. RE: How do you write the formula for Sodium Hydrogen Phosphate? I would like to know what the formula is for Sodium Hydrogen Phosphate and also if you could explain how you got the answer.
Disodium phosphate. Disodium phosphate (DSP), or sodium hydrogen phosphate, is the inorganic compound with the formula Na 2 HPO 4. It is one of several sodium phosphates. The salt is known in anhydrous form as well as forms with 2, 7, 8, and 12 hydrates. All are water-soluble white powders; the anhydrous salt being hygroscopic
Sodium phosphate is a group of chemical compounds. The phosphate atom can hold three other atoms. They can be three hydrogen (phosphoric acid), two hydrogen and one sodium(sodium dihydrogen phosphate), one hydrogen and two sodium (disodium hydrogen phosphate), or three sodium (trisodium phosphate). Sodium dihydrogen phosphate, also known as monosodium phosphate, is a chemical compound with the formula NaH 2 PO 4. It is acidic. It is used in some baking powders. It is used as a laxative or a pH buffer (something that keeps a chemical from getting more acidic or basic).
Trisodium phosphate, also known as sodium phosphate, is a chemical compound with the formula Na 3 PO 4. It is basic. It formerly was used in detergents, but the phosphate fueled algal blooms. Sodium dihydrogen phosphate, also known as monosodium phosphate, is a chemical compound with the formula NaH 2 PO 4. It is acidic. It is used in some baking powders. It is used as a laxative or a pH buffer (something that keeps a chemical from getting more acidic or basic).
Disodium hydrogen phosphate, also known as disodium phosphate is a chemical compound with the formula Na 2 HPO 2. It is about neutral (not acidic or basic). It is used to prevent clumping in foods. It is made by reaction of some sodium hydroxide with phosphorus. Sodium dihydrogen phosphate, also known as monosodium phosphate, is a chemical compound with the formula NaH 2 PO 4. It is acidic. It is used in some baking powders. It is used as a laxative or a pH buffer (something that keeps a chemical from getting more acidic or basic).
Sodium phosphate is a generic term for a variety of salts of sodium (Na +) and phosphate (PO 4 3−). Phosphate also forms families or condensed anions including di-, tri-, tetra-, and polyphosphates. Most of these salts are known in both anhydrous (water-free) and hydrated forms. Three families of sodium monophosphates are common, those derived from orthophosphate (PO 4 3−), hydrogen phosphate (HPO 4 2−), and dihydrogenphosphate (H 2 PO 4 −). Some of the most well known salt are shown in the table.
Trisodium phosphate (TSP) is the inorganic compound with the chemical formula Na 3 PO 4. It is a white, granular or crystalline solid, highly soluble in water producing an alkaline solution. TSPs are used as cleaning agent, lubricant, food additive, stain remover and degreaser. Trisodium phosphate is produced by neutralization of phosphoric acid using sodium hydroxides, often with sodium carbonate.