It is a very fragmented industry with the top 10 controlling 56.1% of the market in 2008 and down to 55% in 2009. One estimate had the size of the market set to reach $24 billion in 2010 and set to grow at a rate of 8.5% through 2015. The top CROs, according to outsourcing-pharma.com, are Quintiles, Parexel, Pharmaceutical Product Development (PPD), INC Research, Covance, Medpace, PRA Health Sciences, inVentiv Health, and Chiltern.
As a global full-service digital contract research organization (dCRO), Clinipace has pioneered an innovative service model to serve the unique needs of venture-backed, mid-tier, and strategic pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and medical device firms. On-X Life Technologies, Inc. Julie Gavigan. You took this study when we were knee deep in…and are responsible for the success that we have had with the Pivotal 1 study. We couldn’t have done it without you, and we continue to have success daily with the stellar team that we have been given to work with.
In an attempt to continue their rapid growth, some of the larger contract research organizations have expanded into other fields such as medical product marketing (pharmaceutical detailing), discovery and formulation, contract manufacturing, clinical labs, and other related fields. Clinical investigators themselves, which are hired by the CRO or the sponsor directly to actually conduct the clinical trial at a specific location, may be part of an organization that provides CRO-like services or that provides joint marketing and clinical trial support.
The contract research organization industry is relatively young. Most of the top CRO industry participants were founded in the late 1980's to mid 1990's as the pharmaceutical industry first began to recognize outsourcing as an effective cost-reduction strategy. Clinical investigators themselves, which are hired by the CRO or the sponsor directly to actually conduct the clinical trial at a specific location, may be part of an organization that provides CRO-like services or that provides joint marketing and clinical trial support.
Worldwide, there are about 1,100 companies operating in the contract research organization industry, including a number of individuals working as independent consultants. Only a few hundred CROs have sales exceeding $10 million (USD), and of these only about a dozen are publicly traded. Clinical investigators themselves, which are hired by the CRO or the sponsor directly to actually conduct the clinical trial at a specific location, may be part of an organization that provides CRO-like services or that provides joint marketing and clinical trial support.
Preclinical research. Drug approval. Many people have only a vague idea what these words mean. Here’s your chance to learn how life-changing drugs get to patients — and the important role played by the contract research organization (CRO).
A more specific, albeit somewhat older, 2003 analysis of the worldwide contract research organization industry estimated the market for outsourced clinical development services at around $6 billion and growing at low double-digit rates. Clinical investigators themselves, which are hired by the CRO or the sponsor directly to actually conduct the clinical trial at a specific location, may be part of an organization that provides CRO-like services or that provides joint marketing and clinical trial support.
The Association of Clinical Research Organizations (ACRO) has put together this video to help explain the process for creating life-changing drugs and how a CRO, such as PPD, plays a key role in the development of these important therapies. This video provides an overview of the drug discovery and development process. Drug approval. Many people have only a vague idea what these words mean. Here’s your chance to learn how life-changing drugs get to patients — and the important role played by the contract research organization (CRO).
A contract research organization (CRO) is an organization that provides support to the pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and medical device industries in the form of research services outsourced on a contract basis. One estimate had the size of the market set to reach $24 billion in 2010 and set to grow at a rate of 8.5% through 2015. The top CROs, according to outsourcing-pharma.com, are Quintiles, Parexel, Pharmaceutical Product Development (PPD), INC Research, Covance, Medpace, PRA Health Sciences, inVentiv Health, and Chiltern.