Axiomatic Protocol Converters and CAN Gateways provide end users and OEM’s, a solution for integrating their legacy or standard systems. Axiomatic products support one to one conversions of TTL, RS-232, RS-485, 2 CAN bus networks, Ethernet and proprietary protocols on request. • Acts as a gateway or interface between CAN buses with different baud rates and protocols (Model AX140100 is SAE J1939-SAE J1939 and Modbus RTU) OR (Model AX140200 is CANopen® – SAE J1939 and Modbus RTU). • Fast data exchange between a CAN network and a RS-485 bus (Modbus RTU or SAE J1587).
Protocol Converters are generally used for transforming data and commands from one device or application to another. This necessarily involves transformation of data, commands, their representation, encoding and framing to achieve the conversion. The protocol converter can be a software converter, hardware converter, or an integrated converter depending on the protocols. 1  Some of the key applications are: 2  Substation Automation. 3  Building
Protocol Converter applications vary from industry to industry. The protocol converter can be a software converter, hardware converter, or an integrated converter depending on the protocols. 1  Some of the key applications are: 2  Substation Automation. 3  Building Automation.
A Protocol Converter is a device used to convert standard or proprietary protocol of one device to the protocol suitable for the other device or tools to achieve the interoperability. The protocol converter can be a software converter, hardware converter, or an integrated converter depending on the protocols. 1  Some of the key applications are: 2  Substation Automation. 3  Building
Protocol Converter. Typically a software application that converts the standard or proprietary protocol of one device to the protocol suitable for another device to achieve interoperability. 
protocol converter. Definition of protocol converter in The Network Encyclopedia. protocol converter A general term for a device that enables communication between networks or transmission systems that use different protocols. Protocol converters are often used in mainframe computing environments; they enable one device to emulate the communication functions of another device. You can also use protocol converters to connect ASCII printers to AS/400 or System/3x mainframe hosts. A protocol converter for this purpose is sometimes called a printer emulation card.
Protocol Converters. B&B Electronics’ protocol converters offer cost-effective ways to facilitate network integration. Our selection of fieldbus and modbus protocol converters enable smooth connectivity and are suitable for power generation, oil & gas, and other industrial applications. 1. 1. Vlinx™ MESR321 series Modbus Gateways.
protocol converter. A device or program to translate between different protocols which serve similar functions (e.g. TCP and TP4). Some call this a  gateway , though others use that term for other kinds of internetworking device. 1  Facebook. 
Protocol Convertor. V tech communication are authorized distributor of protocol convertors. A Protocol Converter is a device used to convert standard or proprietary protocol of one device to the protocol suitable for the other device or tools to achieve the interoperability. It is a protocol converter device converting industry standard Modbus protocol to BACnet protocol and vice-versa. The embedded device designed around PC104 architecture and is a very useful device offering connectivity between building automation networks in HVAC, Surveillancea surveillanceâ to external control... and