Some types of receptors cluster together in the membrane after binding hormone. Finally, as elaborated below, interaction of the hormone-bound receptor with other membrane or cytoplasmic proteins is the key to generation of second messengers and transduction of the hormonal signal.
Receptors for steroid and thyroid hormones are located inside target cells, in the cytoplasm or nucleus, and function as ligand-dependent transcription factors. That is to say, the hormone-receptor complex binds to promoter regions of responsive genes and stimulate or sometimes inhibit transcription from those genes.
Protein and peptide hormones, catecholamines like epinephrine, and eicosanoids such as prostaglandins find their receptors decorating the plasma membrane of target cells.
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Hormones are chemical messengers that interact with receptors present on the surface of a cell membrane or with receptors that are located inside the cell, in the cytoplasm (cytoplasmic receptors).
Cells must have specific membrane or intracellular receptors to which hormones can bind. Target cell response depends on three factors: blood levels of the hormone, relative numbers of target cell receptors, and affinity of the receptor for the hormone.
The importance of phospholipids for hormone binding to receptors (5, 28, 43) and the effects of temperature and agents such as urea upon the binding process suggest that hydrophobic interactions are important for binding of peptide hormones to their receptor sites (138).
1 if the hormone will bind to receptor sites outside or inside of the target cell (fat soluble can bind both whereas water soluble hormones usually bind on the outside) and. 2  how the hormone is broken down (metabolized). 3  Steroid hormones are fat-soluble molecules made from cholesterol.
1 Steroids pass into a cell's nucleus, bind to specific receptors and genes and trigger the cell to make proteins. 2  Amino acid derivatives, such as epinephrine, are water-soluble molecules derived from amino acids (the building blocks of protein). 3  These hormones are stored in endocrine cells until needed.
Most water-soluble hormones such as glycoproteins and peptides combine with a receptor present on the plasma membrane because they are not lipid soluble and cannot move through the phospholipid cell membrane.