Nonwoven fabric is a fabric-like material made from long fibers, bonded together by chemical, mechanical, heat or solvent treatment. Air-laid paper is a textile-like material categorized as a nonwoven fabric made from wood pulp. Unlike the normal papermaking process, air-laid paper does not use water as the carrying medium for the fiber. Fibers are carried and formed to the structure of paper by air.
Since its appearance shape pearl, also known as the pearl canvas. The nonwoven fabric including chemical fibers and plant fibers, etc. in the water or air as the suspending medium under conditions made in the wet or dry method papermaking machine, although it is called non-woven cloth without the textile. First, characteristics: a fabric formed because it is an unwanted spinning weaving just textile staple fibers or filaments directed or random stays column, the formation of the structure of the fiber network, and then using a mechanical, thermal bonding, or chemical methods such reinforcement made.
Nonwoven fabrics are broadly defined as sheet or web structures bonded together by entangling fiber or filaments (and by perforating films) mechanically, thermally, or chemically. They are flat, porous sheets that are made directly from separate fibers or from molten plastic or plastic film. Nonwovens may be a limited-life, single-use fabric or a very durable fabric. Nonwoven fabrics provide specific functions such as absorbency, liquid repellency, resilience, stretch, softness, strength, flame retardancy, washability, cushioning, filtering, bacterial barriers and sterility.
Sorbent A nonwoven fabric used to attract and/or contain fluids. The term is most commonly used todescribe products that are used to clean-up environmental oil spills and around machinery ina workplace to capture oil and other fluids. Oleophilic fibers, such as from polypropylene, arewidely used in these products. 
The term is used in the textile manufacturing industry to denote fabrics, such as felt, which are neither woven nor knitted. Some nonwoven materials lack sufficient strength unless densified or reinforced by a backing. In recent years, nonwovens have become an alternative to polyurethane foam. Air-laid paper is a textile-like material categorized as a nonwoven fabric made from wood pulp. Unlike the normal papermaking process, air-laid paper does not use water as the carrying medium for the fiber. Fibers are carried and formed to the structure of paper by air.
To enhance the paper’s strength bonding agents such as resin are added. In contrast, airlaid nonwoven technology generally uses latex emulsions, thermoplastic fibers or some combination of both to bond the web’s fibers and increase the strength and integrity of the sheet. The process yields a paper-like fabric that is thicker, softer and more absorbent than paper. 
Nonwoven fabrics are broadly defined as sheet or web structures bonded together by entangling fiber or filaments (and by perforating films) mechanically, thermally or chemically. They are flat or tufted porous sheets that are made directly from separate fibers, molten plastic or plastic film. Air-laid paper is a textile-like material categorized as a nonwoven fabric made from wood pulp. Unlike the normal papermaking process, air-laid paper does not use water as the carrying medium for the fiber. Fibers are carried and formed to the structure of paper by air.
Non-Woven Color Tissue by the ream is water-resistant and looks and feels like fabric. Makes a beautiful wrap for gifts. Our Non-Woven Fiber Spun Tissue makes beautiful wraps for flowers and gifts and can be used like regular tissue paper in bags. Sheets look & feel like fabric but contain strong polyester. Tissue doesn't rub or bleed and is water resistant. Non-woven tissue has more density than paper, so you will use les
4, wet non-woven. Wet nonwoven fabric is placed in the fiber material in the aqueous medium opener into a single fiber, the different fiber raw materials made by mixing the fiber suspension pulp suspension slurry is fed into a network mechanism, the fibers in the wet state into a network reinforcement into cloth. First, characteristics: a fabric formed because it is an unwanted spinning weaving just textile staple fibers or filaments directed or random stays column, the formation of the structure of the fiber network, and then using a mechanical, thermal bonding, or chemical methods such reinforcement made.