Well there are a wide range of jobs in the Environment category and their pay varies greatly. If you know the pay grade of the job you are searching for you can narrow down this list to only view Environment jobs that pay less than $30K, $30K-$50K, $50K-$80K, $80K-$100K, or more than $100K.
The Technician, Environmental Services is a part time or temporary service non-exempt position working 29 hours or less per week for Shelby County in various... 18 hours ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all Shelby County jobs in Shelby County, AL-Shelby County, AL jobs. 
In 2013, the mean annual wage for environmental science and protection technicians, including environmental services technicians was $45,470, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. When there is an environmental emergency, such as a chemical accident in a college laboratory, environmental services technicians can help neutralize, or minimize the effects of the hazardous substances.
An environmental tech may work for a company or organization, as a consultant, or in the field. An environmental tech may collect and test samples or make sure the company that he or she works for is in compliance with all environmental laws and regulations at the local, state, and federal levels. Schools offering Engineering & Technology Management degrees can also be found in these popular choices.
Career Overview. An environmental tech can work either in industry or as a consultant, but the job duties are essentially the same. Environmental techs may be responsible for making sure that an organization is complying with all local, state, and federal regulations involving the environment. An environmental tech may collect and test samples or make sure the company that he or she works for is in compliance with all environmental laws and regulations at the local, state, and federal levels. Schools offering Engineering & Technology Management degrees can also be found in these popular choices.
They have the monopoly over the techs. On the Early stages techs receive $25 000- $35 000. Once you have seniority (10 years of experience!) you will make around $40 000 yearly. * According to the American Medical Association, the average starting salary for pharmacy technicians is $19,000. The wages vary by industry and level of experienceThe salary per year for a pharmacy technician is about $10.00 to $17.00 per hour. 
(United States). Environmental Technicians in the United States take home an average $15.51 per hour. Geography and tenure each impact pay for this group, with the former having the largest influence. Most Environmental Technicians report high levels of job satisfaction. Medical benefits are awarded to a large number, and the greater part earn dental coverage.
To perform their tasks satisfactorily, environmental services technicians must have an ability to understand oral and written instructions and do what is asked. When performing a laboratory test, for example, these technicians must follow the experiment’s instructions carefully. When there is an environmental emergency, such as a chemical accident in a college laboratory, environmental services technicians can help neutralize, or minimize the effects of the hazardous substances.