1 In a high-speed blender, add the Irish moss and about 1/4 cup of water, process till well blended into a paste. 2  You may need up to 1 cup of water total. 3  The goal is to make the paste with the least amount of water. 4  If you have a Vitamix with the plunger, use it… it is a key to success. 1 Store the gel in an airtight container in the fridge for 2-3 weeks (the cautious approach I’ve had it last way longer). 2  To use in a recipe, use 1-5 Tbsp of Irish moss gel to 1 cup of product. 3  Quantity depends on the recipe you are making and the thickness desired.
Irish moss is a type of seaweed. It grows in cold water and is used in raw food recipes for nutrition and thickening properties. Irish Moss has been used for centuries in Ireland, thought it also grows in Asia and the oceans of North America. 1 To make a paste, soak ¼ cup Irish Moss in cold water for at least 3 hours. 2  Then rinse your moss in cold water really, really well to get rid of all sand and rocks. 3  Put your moss in the blender with 1 cup water. 4  Blend on high until smooth and creamy.
(Watch in HD!). Preparing Irish Moss Gel. Remove from package and soak 1 cup of Irish Moss in a bowl of water for 20 minutes to let all the sand and debris float to the bottom of the bowl. Remove the Irish moss by picking up out of the bowl and place in a strainer. Rinse well and get any extra sand or debris off
You can make a jar of irish moss gel and keep it in the fridge to use as a base for protein shakes and smoothies. As we mentioned, the polysaccharide sugars and nutrients are time released for slower nutritional uptake and provide the perfect fuel source for exercise regimes, sports activities or workout sessions. Making irish moss gel is quite simple, but does employ the use of a high speed blending device. One of the best parts about making it this way is that it can be stored for long periods of time in the refrigerator, literally weeks when kept cold.
Getting Start with Irish Moss. Before you work with Irish Moss, you usually need to make it into a paste. 1  To make a paste, soak ¼ cup Irish Moss in cold water for at least 3 hours. 2  Then rinse your moss in cold water really, really well to get rid of all sand and rocks. 3  Put your moss in the blender with 1 cup water. 1 To make a paste, soak ¼ cup Irish Moss in cold water for at least 3 hours. 2  Then rinse your moss in cold water really, really well to get rid of all sand and rocks. 3  Put your moss in the blender with 1 cup water. 4  Blend on high until smooth and creamy.
Irish Moss Gel (paste). Irish Moss is unprocessed, raw seaweed, which can be used as a gelling agent without cooking. It’s an amazing thickener and emulsifier (able to bind fat and water-based ingredients) and can help cut down on the quantity of nuts needed in many recipes. 1 Store the gel in an airtight container in the fridge for 2-3 weeks (the cautious approach I’ve had it last way longer). 2  To use in a recipe, use 1-5 Tbsp of Irish moss gel to 1 cup of product. 3  Quantity depends on the recipe you are making and the thickness desired.
I really wish I didn’t wait so long to learn how to make Irish Moss Gel. It’s an amazing food that is fun for raw foods and great for beauty. I use Irish Moss Gel in all kinds of raw foods: smoothies, desserts, yogurt, soups, nut milks, and on my face for a beauty mask. In the video below I’ll show you how to make your own. (Buy your irish moss here .) And, following the video below, I share step-by-step instructions as well. Add filtered water. The amount of water you use varies with the amount of irish moss as well as the texture goal. I usually fill enough water to reach the top of the moss in the blender as pictured here.
Carrageenan extract or gum is not the same thing as whole irish moss seaweed. Carrageenan extract is an emulsifier and food additive that has been used in the commercial food industry for decades in yogurt, ice cream, dairy milk, and even organic boxed vegan milks to enhance the textures of these packaged products. Making irish moss gel is quite simple, but does employ the use of a high speed blending device. One of the best parts about making it this way is that it can be stored for long periods of time in the refrigerator, literally weeks when kept cold.
Irish moss gel. Irish moss is not really a moss but a seaweed that is found along the coast of the Atlantic Ocean, and especially in Ireland. Rich in antioxidants, anti-viral properties, iodine, and nutrients, Irish moss is also one of the plants that has mucilage. To turn Irish moss into a gel simply requires putting the moss into a mason jar, sitting it into a pot of water, and boiling for an hour to create a viscous, gel-like tea
1 Don’t worry about the odor, when the Irish moss is ready to use, it is practically odorless and tasteless. 2  After the soaking process is complete, drain, discard and give the Irish moss one last rinse. 3  In a high-speed blender, add the Irish moss and about 1/4 cup of water, process till well blended into a paste. 1 Store the gel in an airtight container in the fridge for 2-3 weeks (the cautious approach I’ve had it last way longer). 2  To use in a recipe, use 1-5 Tbsp of Irish moss gel to 1 cup of product. 3  Quantity depends on the recipe you are making and the thickness desired.