gamete. Gametes are an organism's reproductive cells. They are also referred to as sex cells. Female gametes are called ova or egg cells, and male gametes are called sperm. Gametes are haploid cells, and each cell carries only one copy of each chromosome. These reproductive cells are produced through a type of cell division called meiosi
A gamete is a reproductive cell having the haploid number of chromosomes, especially a mature sperm or egg capable of fusing with a gamete of the opposite sex to produce the fertilized egg. 
A gamete is a reproductive cell having the haploid number of chromosomes, especially a mature sperm or egg capable of fusing with a gamete of the opposite sex to produce the f … ertilized egg. 4 people found this useful. The gametes are formed in the gonads, which also have hormonal  functions. A gamete is a mature haploid male or female germ cell  that is able to unite with another of the o … pposite sex in sexual  reproduction to form a zygote.
Gametes are produced by a type of cell division called meiosis. They are haploid, meaning that they contain only one set of chromosomes. When the haploid male and female gametes unite in a process called fertilization, they form what is called a zygote. The zygote is diploid and contains two sets of chromosomes.
Dissimilarity [edit]. In contrast to a gamete, the diploid somatic cells of an individual contain one copy of the chromosome set from the sperm and one copy of the chromosome set from the egg cell; that is, the cells of the offspring have genes expressing characteristics of both the father and the mother. In species that produce two morphologically distinct types of gametes, and in which each individual produces only one type, a female is any individual that produces the larger type of gamete—called an ovum (or egg)—and a male produces the smaller tadpole-like type—called a sperm.
Gamete. A gamete is a reproductive cell such as a sperm or egg cell. When the sperm and egg come together and fertilize, a zygote is formed. Sperm move; eggs do not. The gametes, sperm and egg each contain one set (haploid) of the total number of chromosomes necessary for fertilization and that allows the zygote to grow to maturity. The zygote contains all the chromosomes necessary. It is diploid --having both sets of chromosomes.
Definition: Gametes are reproductive cells (sex cells) that unite during sexual reproduction to form a new cell called a zygote. Male gametes are sperm and female gametes are ova (eggs). In seed bearing plants, p ollen is the male sperm producing gametophyte. Female gametes are contained within the plant ovary. They are haploid, meaning that they contain only one set of chromosomes. When the haploid male and female gametes unite in a process called fertilization, they form what is called a zygote. The zygote is diploid and contains two sets