Rose, one of the old-time sweet-smelling flower names, has had a remarkable revival—first of all as a middle name—with parents (e.g., Jennifer Garner & Ben Affleck, Jon Stewart, Eric Clapton, Ewan McGregor) finding Rose to be the perfect connective, with more color and charm than old standbys like Sue and Ann. 
Name Meanings and History One of the things that all people and places have in common is (NAMES). Have you ever asked yourself, What does my name mean?. Even if you are here just to browse, we hope that you will enjoy a unique spin on a fascinating study field. We offer name meanings for over 45,000 different baby names, surnames, and city names from all over the world. We are in the process of building many tools and resources to help make your studies easier. We invite you to contribute name meanings, ratings, comments, participate in our forums, or contribute facts and information to our growing community. Here is a great resource if you are looking for-Baby Names
Scottish Meaning: The name Rose is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Rose is: Flower. American Meaning: The name Rose is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Rose is: Flower.
Meaning of Baby Names. One of the most important tasks of parenting is naming your child. This is because when you choose a name for your baby, you are creating the baby's future. The meaning of baby names are the single most important influence on the development of your baby's personality. Each baby name meaning has a hidden energy behind it which will greately influence your baby's destiny. If you are interested in name meanings, meanings of names, meaning of baby names, or name numerology this site shows you how to understand the powerful force your name exerts in your entire life. Enter your first name below:
home. 1. a house, apartment, or other shelter that is the usual residence of a person, family, or household. 2. the place in which one's domestic affections are centered. 3. an institution for people with special needs: a nursing home. 4. the dwelling place or retreat of an animal. 
Irish House Names. Many people have asked me for suggestions on Irish names for their houses. So, the last time I was in Ireland, I wrote down all of the names of the houses I happened to see. Most of these houses were in the West of Ireland, although there are some from the south, and near Dublin as well. There is a fair range of both rural and urban house names. I have tried to translate them, or to explain them as best I could. However, since house names are very personal, and in many cases passed down through generations of homeowners, many of the meanings are hard to explain.
Use the search tools above to find names and meanings. You can enter complete names or partial beginnings to search name variations. 
Definition of HOME for Kids. 1. : the house or apartment where a person lives. 2. : the place where a person was born or grew up. 3. 4. 