The number of nucleons (both protons and neutrons) in the nucleus is the atom's mass number, and each isotope of a given element has a different mass number. For example, carbon-12, carbon-13 and carbon-14 are three isotopes of the element carbon with mass numbers 12, 13 and 14 respectively. For example, 14C is a radioactive form of carbon while 12C and 13C are stable isotopes. There are about 339 naturally occurring nuclides on Earth, of which 288 are primordial nuclides, meaning that they have existed since the solar system's formation.
Types of isotopes – examples of isotopes: The isotopes are called as the atoms of the similar elements contain the similar atomic number and the similar chemical properties but various only in mass number. Let us discuss about the examples of isotopes. Soddy named these elements of the different mass numbers having same atomic number as isotopes. The iso means same and topos means place that is atoms placed at the same position in the periodic table.
A radionuclide (radioactive nuclide, radioisotope or radioactive isotope) is an atom that has excess nuclear energy, making it unstable. 
For example uranium has 3 natural isotopes, all radioactive U-234, U-235, U-238. Also hydrogen has 3 natural isotopes: H-1, H-2 (deuterium), H-3 (tritium) and 3 artificial isotopes; H-4, H-5, H-6. All the chemical elements has isotopes, stables or radioactive, naturals or artificial. radioactive isotope, also called radioisotope, any of several species of the same chemical element with different masses whose nuclei are unstable and dissipate excess energy … by spontaneously emitting radiation in the form of alpha, beta, and gamma rays. Every chemical element has one or more radioactive isotopes. For example, hydrogen, the lightest element, has three isotopes with mass numbers 1, 2, and 3. Only hydrogen-3 (tritium), however, is a radioactive isotope, the other two being stable. More than 1,000 radioactive isotopes of the various elements are known
Some isotopes are radioactive, and are therefore described as radioisotopes or radionuclides, while others have never been observed to undergo radioactive decay and are described as stable isotopes or stable nuclides. For example, 14C is a radioactive form of carbon while 12C and 13C are stable isotopes. There are about 339 naturally occurring nuclides on Earth, of which 288 are primordial nuclides, meaning that they have existed since the solar system's formation.
A very popular element, carbon, also has isotopes. There are three isotopes of carbon: carbon-12, carbon-13 and carbon-14. The numbers that are after the carbon refer to the atomic mass. The most common and abundant isotope of carbon is carbon-12. There are different types of radioactive isotopes. Long-lived radioactive isotopes were created when the solar system was formed, and they've been present for billions of years. Examples of long-lived radioactive isotopes include potassium-40, rubidium-87 and uranium-238.
Isotopes of elements like hydrogen, chlorine, neon, oxygen, etc., exist in nature and are stable. But isotopes of some elements are radioactive in nature and are not quite stable. 1  Example: Isotopes which are radioactive in nature are called radioisotopes. 2  Uranium has two isotopes, U - 238 is a stable form of Uranium. 3  When Uranium was bombarded with slow electrons, U - 239 was obtained. Since isotopes of an element have the same atomic number, each of these isotopes contains equal numbers of protons in the nucleus and an equal number of electrons revolving in different orbits around the nucleus.
radioactive isotope, also called radioisotope, any of several species of the same chemical element with different masses whose nuclei are unstable and dissipate excess energy … by spontaneously emitting radiation in the form of alpha, beta, and gamma rays. Every chemical element has one or more radioactive isotopes. For example, hydrogen, the lightest element, has three isotopes with mass numbers 1, 2, and 3. Only hydrogen-3 (tritium), however, is a radioactive isotope, the other two being stable. More than 1,000 radioactive isotopes of the various elements are known. A radioactive isotope is a form of an element that is unstable and eventually decays into a different element. For example, most Carbon has 6 protons and 6 neutrons, and is st … able.