Read more. LambieCam is a children's entertainment company. Since May of 2010, Lambie has entertained children & adults all over the world with her outrageous adventures! With over 6.3 million views & over 13,300+ subscribers, she is YouTube's hidden gem! Lamb
Lambie. 553 pages on this wiki. Lambie is a sweet and pretty little lamb who loves ballet, she can either walk in all fours or two legs and has been friends with Doc for a long time, she gets along with some characters because she is very kind. She loves to give cuddles, especially to sad patients at the clinic. Trivia Edit. 1  Lara Jill Miller who voices Lambie also voices Henry from Henry Hugglemonster. 2  Lambie's eyes squint when she's really, really happy. 3  Lambie was a birthday gift to Doc when she was younger. 4  Lambie was Doc's #1 cuddler. 5  She is Doc's Best Friend.
Lambie is a ballerina, just like Bella the ballerina doll. Lambie always keeps her plush clean. Her plush got dirty twice. In the Doc Files episode The Lamb's Exam, she got squished between the custions which she got covered with dust after Donny got up to go get popcorn. Lambie is a stuffed lamb who likes to hug people and dance ballet. When a toy isn't feeling very well, Lambie sometimes worries about it and often gives them a cuddle. During the show, Lambie is often seen looking worried when Doc examines the patient to find out what's wrong.
Career [edit]. Lambie is capable of playing flyhalf, centre and fullback, and was the leading points scorer in the 2009 ABSA U21 Currie Cup despite only turning 19 later that year. Lambie scored a personal haul of 192 points in the competition and ended the season as the U21 Currie Cup top points scorer. Lambie narrowly lost the U21 ABSA Currie Cup final against U21 Free State Cheetahs. He made one appearance for the Sharks senior side in the 2009 Currie Cup against the GWK Griquas at centre.
Lambie is a slender stuffed lamb with white wool and a pink bow and tutu. She also often wears a tiara when Doc plays a princess game starring Princess Lambie. She sometimes wears pink pajamas with lambs on them at night, mostly when she first appears in them in the episode  Dark Knight . Lambie is a stuffed lamb who likes to hug people and dance ballet. When a toy isn't feeling very well, Lambie sometimes worries about it and often gives them a cuddle. During the show, Lambie is often seen looking worried when Doc examines the patient to find out what's wrong.
Trivia. 1  Lambie also likes fashion shows. 2  She and Doc are very close friends. 3  She is allergic to broccoli. 4  Her favorite color is pink. 5  She loves flowers. 6  She doesn't like dogs, because of this, Rudy threw her into a bush. 7  Lambie was a birthday gift to Doc when she was younger. 8  Lambie was Doc's #1 cuddler. Lambie is a stuffed lamb who likes to hug people and dance ballet. When a toy isn't feeling very well, Lambie sometimes worries about it and often gives them a cuddle. During the show, Lambie is often seen looking worried when Doc examines the patient to find out what's wrong.
Lambie is one of the main characters in Doc McStuffins. She's a sweet, perky, lovable and super cuddly stuffed sheep who adores ballet and hugs! Lambie loves to play with the others and is usually seen with Doc or with Hallie. Personality Edit. Lambie is as soft as the wool covering her! She's gentle and very sweet, but usually not timid or shy, though depending on who she's meeting for the first time, she may get hesitant or insecure until she's convinced to just be herself.
Role in the series. Lambie is a stuffed lamb who likes to hug people and dance ballet. When a toy isn't feeling very well, Lambie sometimes worries about it and often gives them a cuddle. During the show, Lambie is often seen looking worried when Doc examines the patient to find out what's wrong.