The toroa or royal albatross is a graceful giant with a wing span of over three metres. Renowned ocean wanderers, they travel vast distances from their breeding grounds to feed – as much as 190,000 km a year. Along with the wandering albatross, royal albatross are the largest seabirds in the world. 
Conservation efforts: The islands where the wandering albatross nests are thoroughly protected as nature reserves and in one case as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Improved long-line fishing regulations have dramatically reduced by-catch of these beautiful animals and more measures are being developed. Status: Vulnerable. Known as: Wandering Albatross, White-winged albatross, snowy albatross. Estimated numbers left in the wild: 20,000 adults. Fun fact: Wandering albatrosses can eat to such excess at times that they are unable to fly and have to rest helplessly on the water.
Most albatrosses are found in the Southern Hemisphere: Antarctica, Australia, South Africa, South America. Only 3 albatross species are found exclusively in the North Pacific (Hawaii, Japan, California and Alaska): the Short-tailed albatross, Black-footed albatross and Laysan albatross. The wingspans of Wandering albatrosses can reach up to 3.5 metres (11 ft). This is the largest wingspan of any bird. An albatross can live up to 60 years and in that life time it would have travelled millions of kilometres. They attain sexual maturity at around 5 years but usually breed when they are 7 - 10 years old.
The majority of wandering albatross breeding sites are protected within reserves, and the island of Macquarie is a World Heritage Site. This species also receives protection under Appendix II of the Convention on Migratory Species and studies of a number of breeding populations have recently been undertaken. 
Endangered Species: Albatross. written by: ElijahS•edited by: Niki Fears•updated: 1/31/2009. Why the Albatross is an endangered species and what can be done to remedy the situation. Albatross population has suffered a dramatic decline during the last decade. As of 2009, 19 of the 22 species are officially recognized as either vulnerable, nearly threatened or critically endangered.
Description. Vast and graceful, the wandering albatross spreads its wings towards the south like the biblical hawk, cruising the skies of the southern hemisphere on pinions that spread up to 3.5 meters, the largest wingspan found in any living bird. Status: Vulnerable. Known as: Wandering Albatross, White-winged albatross, snowy albatross. Estimated numbers left in the wild: 20,000 adults. Fun fact: Wandering albatrosses can eat to such excess at times that they are unable to fly and have to rest helplessly on the water.
Albatross mating habits combined with the slow reproduction rate contribute to their vulnerability: the Albatross cannot recover in a matter of a year or two, and it will probably take decades for the species to flourish once again. Fortunately, there are several solutions to the longlines problem. Albatross population has suffered a dramatic decline during the last decade. As of 2009, 19 of the 22 species are officially recognized as either vulnerable, nearly threatened or critically endangered.
About The Albatross. Albatross population has suffered a dramatic decline during the last decade. As of 2009, 19 of the 22 species are officially recognized as either vulnerable, nearly threatened or critically endangered. While most species still have several thousand breeding couples, some, like the Amsterdam Island albatross, have dwindled to less than a few hundred
Many albatross species are in trouble and need our help. Commercial fishing practices are considered the greatest threat to the survival of many albatross species. Other threats include loss of habitat, introduced predators, eating or becoming tangled up in plastic, oil spills and climate change. The wingspans of Wandering albatrosses can reach up to 3.5 metres (11 ft). This is the largest wingspan of any bird. An albatross can live up to 60 years and in that life time it would have travelled millions of kilometres. They attain sexual maturity at around 5 years but usually breed when they are 7 - 10 years old.
There are 22 albatross species recognised by IUCN. These are divided in 4 Genera : Albatrosses use their morphologically adapted wings and large wingspans to travel long distances without using muscles. Instead of flapping the wings, they use specialised gliding techniques to minimise the use of muscles and energy. The wingspans of Wandering albatrosses can reach up to 3.5 metres (11 ft). This is the largest wingspan of any bird. An albatross can live up to 60 years and in that life time it would have travelled millions of kilometres. They attain sexual maturity at around 5 years but usually breed when they are 7 - 10 years old.