Making the world better, one answer at a time. A ventilation system is needed in order to obtain oxygen for living organisms and to get rid of carbon dioxide. Surface diffusion utilized by many smaller organisms is not sufficient in supplying the oxygen needs of the body. It is also needed to maintain a concentration gradient in the alveoli. But as organisms increase in size, they need a specialized transport system to exchange substances between the internal environment and the external environment. Interestingly enough, osmosis and diffusion are still the important mechanisms at the cellular level. + 60 others found this useful. Helena Trang.
Therefore, a system of transport allows for all cells in the body to get the necessary substances for life in a timely manner. In multicellular animals, you will a heart(pumping mechanism), a liquid tissue known as blood, arteries, veins and tiny capillaries. Posted on. (Answer #1). Multi-cellular organisms are too big and not all of their cells have contact with the external environment. All organisms need to exchange substances with their environment-take in needed molecules and get rid of waste.
Because the diffusion pathway is so short. As organisms get larger, their surface area to volume ratio decreases. Thus, more cells within the body cannot reach the environment. The diffucsion distance to our innermost cells increases, and thus we could not nearly efficiently exchange gases without a ventilation system. To respire, and thus not die, all cells in the human body need constant oxygen access and co2 removal. The ventilation system provides a much shorter diffusion distance (remember this system includes arteries, veins & capillaries). Source(s): Toby · 2 years ago.
All organisms need to exchange substances with their environment - … take in needed molecules and get rid of waste. A uni-cellular organism can use the processes of osmosis, diffusion and active transport to transport substances in and out of the organism, which is in this case just one cell. But as organisms increase in size, they need a specialized transport system to exchange substances between the internal environment and the external environment. Interestingly enough, osmosis and diffusion are still the important mechanisms at the cellular level. + 60 others found this useful. Helena Trang.
But as organisms increase in size, they need a specialized transport system to exchange substances between the internal environment and the external environment. Interestingly enough, osmosis and diffusion are still the important mechanisms at the cellular level. A multicellular organism is an organism with more than one cell, unlike an unicellular organism, that has only one cell. Multicellular organisms include plants, animals and h … uman beings. Unicellular organisms include protozoans and specific algae like brown algae.
You've already chosen the best response. A ventilation system is needed in order to obtain oxygen for living organisms and to get rid of carbon dioxide. Surface diffusion utilized by many smaller organisms is not sufficient in supplying the oxygen needs of the body. http://wiki.answers.com/Q/Why_do_multi-cellular_organisms_need_a_ventilation_system#ixzz1b4rAMxCS. Show full answer.
Ventilation systems. All multicellular organisms have mechanisms for drawing oxygen-rich air (or water) into their bodies and removing carbon dioxide-rich air (or water). A closer look at insect breathing systems makes it easier to appreciate the functions of the more familiar human ventilation system. 
Multicellular organisms need specialised organ systems, whereas all the life processes in a unicellular organism take place in that one cell. Multicellular organisms need organ systems to carry out functions such as: 1  Communication between cells, eg the nervous system and circulatory system. 2  Supplying the cells with nutrients, eg the digestive system. 3  Controlling exchanges with the environment, eg the respiratory system and excretory system. Simple organisms may be unicellular, consisting of just one cell, while more complex organisms are multicellular. There are two types of cell division. Mitosis is used for growth and repair and produces diploid cells identical to each other and the parent cell.