Measuring your body fat percentage is a useful tool to track your progress on your journey to get six-pack abs. Most people who've tried to achieve a 6-pack realized that abdominal exercises don’t burn fat off your stomach. Abs are made in the kitchen, not just in the gym. Recommendations for 6-pack Abs. The problem with trying to pin down one specific body fat number as THE body fat level for seeing 6-pack abs (or being ripped and contest-ready) is that everyone stores their body fat differently and two people with the same percentage will look different.
You'll probably have to hit the very lean category for six pack abs. However, the bottom line is that there's no perfect body fat percentage where you're assured of seeing your abs. Besides, body fat is one of those numbers that gets fudged and exaggerated all the time. Well, I know a guy who looks absolutely chiseled in his abs at 11% body fat, but other guys don't look really cut in the abs until they get down to 6-8% body fat. Bodybuilders usually aren’t ready for competition until they get below 6%.
http://nicktumminello.com/ - Coach Nick Tumminello, Baltimore Personal Trainer, shows you how to perform the Body Saw Abs workout. The Body Saw is a great abs exercise to get six pack abs and build core stability. 
This is my boyfriend at 10% body fat, but a lot of his competing friends have to get down to 6-8% body fat before they achieve the same cut and defined 6-pack abs. Most Bodybuilders aren't ready for competition until they get under 6%. Recommendations for 6-pack Abs. The problem with trying to pin down one specific body fat number as THE body fat level for seeing 6-pack abs (or being ripped and contest-ready) is that everyone stores their body fat differently and two people with the same percentage will look different.
Measuring your body fat percentage is a valuable tool to chart your progress on your quest to get six pack abs. Hopefully most people realize by now that abdominal exercises don't burn fat off your stomach. Abs are made in the kitchen, not just in the gym. When the realization hits you that you must reduce your body fat percentage to see your abs, one of the biggest questions that pops into your mind is, how low do I have to get my body fat percentage to see my abs?. It's a tough question and the answer may be different for men than women.
· just now. Report Abuse. The human abdomen (from the Latin word meaning belly) is the part of the body between the pelvis and the thorax. ... In case you're wanting to work this muscle out (abs), check out this program my buddy Mike Geary created. 
Shredded abs are possibly the ultimate goal, or the holy grail for gym-going guys across the land. For women, too, a lean, ripped stomach is something many strive for. To get visible abs, your body fat needs to be low. How low depends on a number of factors though and what's low enough for you might not be right for the next person. While everyone is different, there is something to be said for looking at a standard guide when determining what levels of body fat you need to see your abs. According to trainer and nutritionist Tom Venuto, you'll need to get very lean
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Abs is short for abdomen muscles, or stomach muscles. They are strengthened through sit-ups. Abdominal muscles The abdominal muscles are located between the ribs and the pelvis on the front of the body. The four abdominal muscle groups combine to completely cover the internal organs. The abdominal muscles support the trunk, allow movement, and hold organs in place by regulating internal abdominal pressure. For example, the right external oblique contracts to turn the body to the left. Internal oblique muscles – these flank the rectus abdominus, and are located just inside the hip-bones. They operate in the opposite way to the external oblique muscles.
Measuring your body fat percentage is a valuable tool to chart your progress on your quest to get six pack abs. Hopefully most people realize by now that abdominal exercises don’t burn fat off your stomach. Abs are made in the kitchen, not just in the gym. Well, I know a guy who looks absolutely chiseled in his abs at 11% body fat, but other guys don't look really cut in the abs until they get down to 6-8% body fat. Bodybuilders usually aren’t ready for competition until they get below 6%.