SAN FRANCISCO (CBS SF) — A handful of Bay Area post offices will stay open late Monday to allow last minute tax filers to turn in their paperwork. 
April 15, 2014 12:25:55 PM PDT. A handful of Bay Area post offices will stay open late today to allow last minute tax filers to turn in their paperwork. The tax day lines at most post offices have shrunk in recent years because more people are filing their taxes online, according to U.S. Postal Service officials. The San Francisco locations will be open until midnight, with both window and curbside locations. The San Jose and Oakland post offices will be open until 10 p.m., with both window and curbside service.
SAN FRANCISCO (CBS SF) – For Bay Area taxpayers who procrastinated until the April 15th deadline and won’t file electronically, a handful of post offices will be open Wednesday evening. Most post offices will be open during regular business hours. Lines at post offices have shrunk considerably in recent years with the rise of online filing. Post office information courtesy U.S. Postal Service.
Most post offices will be open during regular retail hours, but two regularly stay open for late collections: the Oakland Main Post Office at 1675 Seventh St. and the San Jose Main Post Office at 1750 Lundy Ave. Tax Day: 2 Bay Area post offices open until 8:30 p.m. tonight. Bay City News Service. Posted: 04/15/2014 07:47:45 AM PDT. Updated: 04/15/2014 12:53:52 PM PDT. Copyright © 2014 by Bay City News, Inc. ... Republication, re-transmission or reuse without the express written consent of Bay City News, Inc. is prohibited. While post offices will not be keeping different hours on tax day, two post offices in the Bay Area are open late in case any late filers cannot make it during regular retail hours Tuesday
OAKLAND — With more people filing income tax returns online, the Bay-Valley Postal District has scaled back the number of Post Offices that will offer extended hours. Three strategic locations in Oakland, San Jose and Salinas will have extended retail hours and curbside pickup. 
If it were a private sector company, the U.S. Postal Service would rank 28th in the 2009 Fortune 500. TAMPA, FL — Skip the traffic jams at the Airport Post Office and visit one of these locations in the Tampa Bay area that have extended hours to accept your tax returns. Some locations are equipped with Automated Postal Centers (APC) for purchase of postage, credit or debit only. Search
Published 4:00 am, Wednesday, April 15, 2009. As tax time arrives once again, the U.S. Postal Service is keeping some Bay Area offices open late today accommodate last-minute filers. Postal Service spokesman Jim Wigdel said he usually spends the evening of the federal tax deadline on the curb observing the crowds at the San Francisco processing plant. 
Kansas Post Office Hours on Tax Day. A Topeka post office is open until 7 p.m. and the main Wichita office has a late collection of 8:00 p.m. Those in the Kansas City area might want to consider referring to our Missouri section for extended Tax Day post office hours in their area. Post Offices Open Late on Tax Day in All 50 States (and D.C.). GOBankingRates has compiled a list of post offices offering extended hours on April 15 in every state to guide readers to the right locations to get their returns in on time.