The cane toad (Rhinella marina), also known as the giant neotropical toad or marine toad, is a large, terrestrial true toad which is native to Central and South America, but has been introduced to various islands throughout Oceania and the Caribbean, as well as northern Australia. The cane toad is native to the Americas, and its range stretches from the Rio Grande Valley in South Texas to the central Amazon and southeastern Peru. This area encompasses both tropical and semiarid environments.
Habitat of Cane Toad. These species are found in the parts of subtropical forest in water areas. They also inhabit in the dry areas that are humid. However, during the period of reproduction, they tend to cling to wet areas. 1 The Cane Toads expand their lungs to attract their predators. 2  They always prefer moist and humid areas where a minimum of 70% humidity is desirable. 3  They have a tendency to have external fertilization.
Mostly Terrestrial. After Rain. Main Characteristics Cane Toads are the largest toads in the world. They can grow between 5 and 23 cms (2 - 9 inches) in length and they can weigh over 2 Kgs (4.4 lbs). They have a life expectancy of 10 - 15 years in the wild and up to 20 years in captivity. They are heavily built with tough, warty skin. 
The cane toad (Rhinella marina; formerly Bufo marinus) is an invasive species in Australia. The cane toad is the largest species in the family Bufonidae. Adult cane toads are usually heavy-built and weigh an average of up to 1.8 kg. (4 lbs.). Their size may vary from 10–23 cm.(4–9 in.) and their skin is warty
Identification. Cane Toads are large heavily-built amphibians with dry warty skin. They have a bony head and over their eyes are bony ridges that meet above the nose. They sit upright and move in short rapid hops. Cane Toads are considered a pest in Australia because they: 1  poison pets and injure humans with their toxins. 2  poison many native animals whose diet includes frogs, tadpoles and frogs' eggs. 3  eat large numbers of honey bees, creating a management problem for bee-keepers. 4  prey on native fauna.
Some Exciting Facts About Cane Toad. 1  These species are bigger than its other contemporaries. 2  The Cane Toads expand their lungs to attract their predators. 3  They always prefer moist and humid areas where a minimum of 70% humidity is desirable. 1 The Cane Toads expand their lungs to attract their predators. 2  They always prefer moist and humid areas where a minimum of 70% humidity is desirable. 3  They have a tendency to have external fertilization.
It is a member of the genus Rhinella, but was formerly in the genus Bufo, which includes many different true toad species found throughout Central and South America. The cane toad is a prolific breeder; females lay single-clump spawns with thousands of eggs. The cane toad is native to the Americas, and its range stretches from the Rio Grande Valley in South Texas to the central Amazon and southeastern Peru. This area encompasses both tropical and semiarid environments.
The cane toad has poison glands, and the tadpoles are highly toxic to most animals if ingested. Because of its voracious appetite, the cane toad has been introduced to many regions of the Pacific and the Caribbean islands as a method of agricultural pest control. The cane toad is native to the Americas, and its range stretches from the Rio Grande Valley in South Texas to the central Amazon and southeastern Peru. This area encompasses both tropical and semiarid environments.
Cane toads are large, stocky amphibians with dry, warty skin, and are native to the southern United States, Central America, and tropical South America. Bufo marinus. Native to the Americas, the venomous cane toad was brought to Queensland, Australia, in the 1930s in an unsuccessful attempt to reduce destructive beetle populations.
The cane toad’s original natural habitat was in the subtropical rainforests of Central and South America. He thrived in the less hot and humid environment, which also gave him access to fresh water, where females lay eggs. Habitat of Cane Toads. Cane toads were introduced to other parts of the world so they would eradicate sugar cane pests. Ryan McVay/Photodisc/Getty Images. Cane toads are very large, with some among them weighing up to 5 pounds.