[ 2 syll. e-lif, el-if ] The baby girl name Elif is also used as a boy name. It is pronounced-iyL IH F †. Elif is of Turkish origin. It is used mainly in Arabic and Turkish. The name is derived from Alif, the first letter in the Arabic alphabet. Elif is not popular as a baby girl name. It is not in the top 1000 names. † English pronunciation for Elif: IY as in eat (IY.T) ; L as in lay (L.EY) ; IH as in it (IH.T) ; F as in fee (F.IY).
Meaning & History. Turkish form of Alif, the name of the first letter of the Arabic alphabet, ا. It also means slender, from the Turkish phrase elif gibi, literally shaped like Elif. 
The name was commonly used by Ataturk during the revolutionary war to honour women who helped at the war front, taking the first steps as women in the revolution. He later granted women the right to vote without a referendum, a progressive move for a new nation. 
Form of: Itself (Elif). Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Elif and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Elif and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Elif is fascinating, learn more about it.
This doesn't mean that the name Elif is not popular in other countries all over the world. The name might be popular in other countries, in different languages, or even in a different alphabet, as we use the characters from the Latin alphabet to display the data. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Elif and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Elif is fascinating, learn more about it.
The different meanings of the name Elif are: The meaning of the name “Elif” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Elif and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Elif is fascinating, learn more about it.
Meanings and history of the name Elif: | Edit. Elif has multiple meanings. First and foremost it means slender, thin -- that is, shaped like Alif or the first letter of the Arabic and Hebrew alphabets. It also resembles honesty. In Turkey People call honest People As Strait (honest) as Elif.. It shows kindness. Personal experiences with the name Elif: | Edit. I know a load of people with the name Elif and they all seem to be very happy with their name. Elif is truly a beautiful name and sounds very unique to people from other countries. Lif, Leaf, Elle (El), Ellie (Eli), Lee (Li). Elif has multiple meanings. First and foremost it means slender, thin -- that is, shaped like Alif or the first letter of the Arabic and Hebrew alphabets. It also resembles honesty. In Turkey People call honest People As Strait (honest) as Elif.
[ 2 syll. e-lif, el-if ] The baby boy name Elif is also used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is-iyL IH F †. Elif is used chiefly in the Arabic and Turkish languages, and its origin is Norwegian and Turkish. See Elif for more information. Elif is a variant of the name Eilif (Scandinavian). Elif is an unusual baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. Baby names that sound like Elif include the names the name Eluff and the name Eluv. † English pronunciation for Elif: IY as in eat (IY.T) ; L as in lay (L.EY) ; IH as in it (IH.T) ; F as in fee (F.IY).
List of Turkish baby names, Turkish baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Turkish names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Turkish baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Hearing not up to mark. When new born babies are born, their hearing power is not complete i.e. 100%. The middle ear of the infant is filled with fluid which makes only partial hearing possible. Also, they are able easily able to recognize the voice of their mother.