The malate, or malic acid, is found in fruits such as apples and enhances the effects of citrulline. Malic acid takes part in aerobic cellular respiration where oxygen and a carbon compound (acetyl Co-A) are used to produce immediate energy and CO2 in the mitochondria of the cell. This is called the Kreb s cycle.
Administration of citrulline malate to animals protected against acidosis and ammonia poisoning. In a microbial model, malate accelerated the clearance of ammonium and citrulline facilitated lactate metabolism. The results suggest a synergistic action of the complex.
I believe Citrulline Malate has the potential to be the next big thing in helping to redefine human athletic performance. Check out the studies that prove it! For years Creatine has been considered the big daddy of safe, legal and non-hormonal performance enhancers…And rightfully so.
This is because citrulline malate is a combination of the amino acid citrulline and the natural chemical malic acid, both of which are safe to use regularly. A few participants in one study reported slight stomach discomfort after taking citrulline malate.
Also look for Citrulline Malate as a component of the flagship product-BODY OCTANE TM, in my MAN (Metabolic Augmenting Nutrition) Sports Product line of performance enhancers coming soon. J-Rod Disclaimer: No, I am not a scientist, and I don't pretend to be. I do not have all the answers and do not claim to.
L-citrulline is a naturally occurring amino acid found in food, such as watermelons, and also made in the body. Our bodies change L-citrulline into another amino acid called L-arginine and also to nitric oxide. L-citrulline might help increase the supply of ingredients the body needs to making certain proteins.
And, unlike a lot of supplements out there, citrulline malate has got some research to back it up. Back in 2010, researchers found that a group of trained men were able to do more reps on the bench press after being given a pre-workout drink containing 8 grams of citrulline malate 60 minutes before training [1].
For the past 20 years Citrulline Malate has been used in Europe to treat fatigue, muscle weakness and Dementia. Dementia is a mental disorder that affects your ability to think, speak and move.
Citrulline is a non-essential amino acid, while malate (or malic acid) is a salt compound primarily found in apples and other fruits. As you might have guessed, citrulline malate is formed when citrulline and malic acid are bonded together.
Citrulline malate is the amino acid citrulline attached to a molecule of malic acid (malate), or in the case of the form I have used in Pre JYM, two molecules of citrulline attached to one molecule of malate.