Heart disease describes a range of conditions that affect your heart. Diseases under the heart disease umbrella include blood vessel diseases, such as coronary artery disease; heart rhythm problems (arrhythmias); and heart defects you're born with (congenital heart defects), among others.
NOVEL: Patient Rare Disease Registry. This registry of rare visual diseases provides a mechanism of communication between Neuro-ophthalmologists who see rare and unusual diseases. This registry will coordinate research on these rare diseases
Almost 120 cases have been confirmed during this MERS outbreak in Riyadh through August 28, 2015. As in other MERS outbreaks, more males then females are infected, about 61%. The males range in age from 2-109 years old with a median age of 61. The females range in age from 25 to 98 with a median age of 58. The Status of the Current MERS Outbreak in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) outbreaks associated with nosocomial infection and human-to-human transmission have been routinely documented since the first cases were first reported in 2012.
There is no specific treatment for disease caused by novel coronavirus. However, many of the symptoms caused by this virus can be treated and therefore treatment should be based on the symptoms of the patient. Moreover, supportive care for infected persons can be highly effective. In confirmed cases of illness in humans, common symptoms have been acute, serious respiratory illness with fever, cough, shortness of breath, and breathing difficulties. Based on current clinical experience, the infection generally presents as pneumonia.
Frequently Asked Questions on Middle East respiratory syndrome coronavirus (MERS‐CoV). Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS) is a viral respiratory disease caused by a coronavirus (MERS‐CoV) that was first identified in Saudi Arabia in 2012. Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that can cause diseases ranging from the common cold to Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). 
The recent outbreak of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) in the Republic of Korea (ROK) is the largest outbreak outside of the Arabian Peninsula since MERS was first reported in 2012. A total of 185 cases of MERS have been reported to date by the World Health Organization (WHO) from the ROK (see Annex 1). The Status of the Current MERS Outbreak in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS) outbreaks associated with nosocomial infection and human-to-human transmission have been routinely documented since the first cases were
SARS is a coronavirus that was identified in 2003 and belongs to the same large family of viruses as the novel coronavirus. Therefore, SARS and the novel coronavirus are distantly related. Both viruses are capable of causing severe disease. In confirmed cases of illness in humans, common symptoms have been acute, serious respiratory illness with fever, cough, shortness of breath, and breathing difficulties. Based on current clinical experience, the infection generally presents as pneumonia.
Coronaviruses are a large family of viruses that are known to cause illness in humans and animals. In humans, this large family of viruses are known to cause illness ranging from the common cold to Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS). In confirmed cases of illness in humans, common symptoms have been acute, serious respiratory illness with fever, cough, shortness of breath, and breathing difficulties. Based on current clinical experience, the infection generally presents as pneumonia.
A Novel Coronavirus Called MERS-CoV. A novel coronavirus called “Middle East Respiratory Syndrome Coronavirus” (MERS-CoV) was first reported in 2012 in Saudi Arabia and has since spread to several other countries, including the United States. 
HI, Thank you for writing in. A novel disease is newly discovered and has never been observed before anywhere in the world. This could be due to mutation of the organism that is responsible for the disease. One example is the novel influenza A (H1N1) virus. 