A vacuole is a cell organelle; is it basically a membranous bag filled with fluids. Vacuoles store water and certain materials that are water-soluble. They are present in all plant and fungi cells. They are also found in some species of bacteria and in some animal cells. In plants and fungi, vacuoles store water and some pigments, and they also provide turgor pressure to support the cells from within. In general, they are larger and more obvious in the plant and fungus cells than in the other organisms discussed here. In bacteria vacuoles are believed to be a storage organelle.
A vacuole is a cell organelle found in a number of different cell types. Vacuoles are fluid-filled, enclosed structures that are separated from the cytoplasm by a single membrane. They are found mostly in plant cells and fungi. However, some protist, animal cells, and bacteria also contain vacuoles. 
A vacuole is a membrane-bound sac that plays roles in intracellular digestion and the release of cellular waste products. In animal cells, vacuoles are generally small. Vacu … oles tend to be large in plant cells and play a role in turgor pressure. When a plant is well-watered, water collects in cell vacuoles producing rigidity in the plant. Without sufficient water, pressure in the vacuole is reduced and the plant wilts. The Vacuole of a plant cell storage water for the cell the use when the cell needs it It helps digest all of the waste that the plant eats. expel waste products, just like … the vacuole in other cells    It stores water and wastes.
Vacuoles also play a major role in autophagy, maintaining a balance between biogenesis (production) and degradation (or turnover), of many substances and cell structures in certain organisms. They also aid in the lysis and recycling of misfolded proteins that have begun to build up within the cell. The function and significance of vacuoles varies greatly according to the type of cell in which they are present, having much greater prominence in the cells of plants, fungi and certain protists than those of animals and bacteria. In general, the functions of the vacuole include: 1  Isolating materials that might be harmful or a threat to the cell. 2  Containing waste products. 3  Containing water in plant cells
A vacuole (/ˈvaekjuːoʊl/) ˈvækjuːoʊl is a-membrane bound organelle which is present in all plant and fungal cells and some, protist animal and bacterial. cells The function and significance of vacuoles varies greatly according to the type of cell in which they are present, having much greater prominence in the cells of plants, fungi and certain protists than those of animals and bacteria. In general, the functions of the vacuole include: 1  Isolating materials that might be harmful or a threat to the cell. 2  Containing waste products. 3  Containing water in plant cells.
Best Answer: Vacuoles are membrane-bounded compartments within some eukaryotic cells that can serve a variety of secretory, excretory, and storage functions. Vacuoles and their contents are considered to be distinct from the cytoplasm, and are classified as ergastic according to some authors (Esau, 1965). 
Vacuoles also play a major role in autophagy, maintaining a balance between biogenesis (production) and degradation (or turnover), of many substances and cell structures. They also aid in destruction of invading bacteria or of misfolded proteins that have begun to aggregate within the cell. Report Abuse. Vacuoles are membrane-bounded compartments within some eukaryotic cells that can serve a variety of secretory, excretory, and storage functions. Vacuoles and their contents are considered to be distinct from the cytoplasm, and are classified as ergastic according to some authors (Esau, 1965).
Plant cells have one large vacuole, which plays an important role in the rigidity and turgor pressure of the cell. Animal cells do not need the same kind of function from th … eir vacuoles, so the size and number of vacuoles in different cells will differ (depending on the type of cell). Vacuoles in animal cells store food, water, waste, and minerals like plant cells. The only difference is that plant cells have larger vacuoles than animal cells.