If you want to find out if someone had a will, then you can check with 1) the individual's attorney, 2) estate Executor or 3) probate court. If none of these options work, you can sue the estate of the Deceased. Somewhere, someone has control of the personal property of the Decedent. 
Find out the value of assets and gifts-you should use a professional valuer for anything worth more than £500. Add up assets and gifts, then take away any debts. Use the total to decide if there’s Inheritance Tax to pay-there usually is if the estate’s worth more than £325,000. Before you start. You’ll need details of all the person’s assets and debts when they died-plus any assets they gave away before they died (‘ gifts ’). An asset is anything the person owned with a value (this means it’s worth money or could be sold).
How to Find Out if a Will Exists. The first thing to do is to find out if a will has gone through probate. If you know where the decedent died, contact the probate court in that county. If a will was filed in the court, it will almost always be available to the public. In other words, you can obtain a copy of the will for the court’s specified fee.
Recover Someone's Assets. Before you make a recovery of someone's assets you first need to find what a person owns, be it real property, cars, land, businesses etc. Here are a list of ways to help you find out what a person owns for recovery purposes. Go to a popular site like, Knowx.com. This website is not just a people finder website. It's also a background checking website and can even locate assets and businesses owned by a person in their state of residence. 
Just enter 'unclaimed funds' and the state name in any search engine. If you have the name of the institution where you believe he had an account, contact them and they may tell you if he had an account. Be prepared to submit a death certificate just to start the process. If you father did not have a will, then the state appoints someone to administer his estate. Only the executor or administrator is allowed access to the information. Since your father passed away nearly 6.5 years ago, it appears that either you could not be found, or your father has a will that excluded you.
If your father had a will, he named an executor. The court approves the will and executor, and the executor with the proper documents can get information on bank accounts, etc. If you father did not have a will, then the state appoints someone to administer his estate. Only the executor or administrator is allowed access to the information. Since your father passed away nearly 6.5 years ago, it appears that either you could not be found, or your father has a will that excluded you.
Step 1. Visit the county court in the county where your father's will was probated. If the probate process is complete, your father's will is a matter of public record. You can search the public records held at the courthouse for your father's will to determine whether he left you any assets. Step 4. Contact the administrator of your father's estate if he died without a will. An administrator's responsibilities are similar to an executor's. When an individual dies without leaving behind a will, the court appoints an administrator to ensure the deceased's assets are distributed according to state law.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: You don't have to worry about what assets he currently has. All that information you can find out in the discovery process. I suggest you determine how much is owed originally and then calculate interest at a common 'savings account' level (low interest) and legal filing fees. Then sue him for that amount. Because the amount you can sue for is not based on what he currently has in assets but what is owed. You might also be able to sue for punitive damages as well but generally this can't be done in small claims court nor I doubt you would win that with out a good attorney.
Getting money that is owed to you is free and a completely legitimate endeavor. That is, each state’s Department of Revenue (or some similar department or division having to do with money at the state level) has set up a website where you can go to find out if money is owed to you. 