Nature Notes. by Bob Thomas. Among my favorite local reclusive critters is amphiuma, or so-called Congo (conger) eel. These salamanders are the largest amphibian in North America and uniquely American being endemic to the southeastern United States.
Amphiuma is a genus of aquatic salamanders that have very small limbs and are sometimes misidentified as snakes or eels. Indeed, members of the genus, which may grow up to three feet long, are often better known by the name Congo eel or Congo snake. 
am·phi·u·ma. n. Any of several long slender salamanders of the genus Amphiuma of the southeast United States that in their adult stage have two pairs of very small nonfunctioning legs and breathe with lungs although they are aquatic. Also called Congo eel, Congo snake. 
Amphiuma is a genus of aquatic salamanders, the only extant genus within the family Amphiumidae /aemfɨˈjuːmɨdiː/ . æmfɨˈjuːmɨdiː they are also known to fishermen  as conger  eels Or congo, snakes which are zoologically incorrect. designations Description [edit]. Amphiumas have an elongated body, generally grey-black in color. They do have legs, but they are merely vestigial and very small. while amphiumas can be up to 116 cm (46 in) long, their legs measure only up to about 2 cm (0.79 in).
Fun Facts: The three-toed amphiuma is likely to play the role of top predator in many aquatic systems. Amphiuma predators include cottonmouths, alligators, and mud snakes. They are able to defend themselves from both predators and people with a powerful bite. These elongated salamanders may reach more than three feet (.9 m) in length. They are permanently aquatic, although the adults lack gills and use lungs to breathe air. The skin is very smooth and extremely slippery. Both forelimbs and hindlimbs are highly reduced in size and appear nonfunctional.
There are no recorded conspicuous external sexual characteristics. Amphiuma pholeter Amphiuma means, the two-toed amphiuma, is the largest of the three species, reaching a maximum size of 116 cm (45.6 inches) in total length. The laterally compressed tail can compose up to 25% of the total body length. There are no recorded conspicuous external sexual differences. Amphiuma means. Amphiuma tridactylum, the three-toed amphiuma, is the second largest of the three species reaching a maximum size of 106 cm (41.7 inches) in total length. The laterally compressed tail can compose up to 25% of the total body length.
Amphiuma is a genus of aquatic salamanders. They are the only genus still living in the family Amphiumidae. They are sometimes called  conger eels  or congo snakes, which is not correct. Amphiumas have one of the largest amounts of DNA in the living world, around 25 times more than a human. 
This species, like other amphiuma species, has two pairs of very minute and seemingly useless limbs. The presence of only a single toe on each limb is unique to this species. The head is rather conical in shape. The one-toed amphiuma has a slightly laterally flattened tail. 
Amphiuma pholeter has one digit on each foot, Amphiuma means has two, and Amphiuma tridactylum has three. In other respects, the species are similar, although there is a significant size difference between A. pholeter and the other two species at maturity. There are no recorded conspicuous external sexual differences. Amphiuma means. Amphiuma tridactylum, the three-toed amphiuma, is the second largest of the three species reaching a maximum size of 106 cm (41.7 inches) in total length. The laterally compressed tail can compose up to 25% of the total body length.