Don't worry if your early periods have longer cycles or don't follow a schedule. This irregularity is normal for at least the first 2 years. Your periods should become more regular within two years after you start menstruating. Some teens have a 28-day cycle; some have a 24-day cycle; others have a 30- to 34-day cycle. All of these are normal. For young teens, cycles can range from 21 to 45 days. For adults, it can be 21-35 days. If your period is much shorter or longer, or if your period does not become regular after two years, see your primary health care provider
The menstrual cycle, which is counted from the first day of one period to the first day of the next, isn't the same for every woman. Menstrual flow might occur every 21 to 35 days and last two to seven days. For the first few years after menstruation begins, long cycles are common. 
But, anywhere from 2 to 7 days is normal. For the first few years after menstruation begins, longer cycles are common. A woman's cycle tends to shorten and become more regular with age. Most of the time, periods will be in the range of 21 to 35 days apart.
How long does your period last? Generally, the bleeding lasts for 3-7 days, although longer than a  week is not uncommon. The entire cycle usually lasts for roughly a  month (28 days), but the cycles can b … e long or short while still  during puberty.
A menstrual cycle is the time from the day a menstrual period starts to the time the next period starts. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. However, a normal cycle can be shorter or longer than this. It may be anywhere from 21 to 35 days long. Most periods last 3 to 5 days, but anywhere from 2 to 7 days is normal. Menstrual cycles may happen around the same date every month or they may be irregular. A menstrual period is considered late if it hasn’t started 5 or more days after the day you expected it to start.
It also prepares your body for pregnancy each month. A cycle is counted from the first day of 1 period to the first day of the next period. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. Cycles can range anywhere from 21 to 35 days in adults and from 21 to 45 days in young teens. The rise and fall of levels of hormones during the month control the menstrual cycle. For the first few years after menstruation begins, longer cycles are common. A woman's cycle tends to shorten and become more regular with age. Most of the time, periods will be in the range of 21 to 35 days apart.
When you first start having your period, it may last only a few days. Your first few periods may be very light. You may only see a few spots of reddish brown blood. Anywhere from 2 to 7 days is normal. A menstrual cycle is counted from the first day of bleeding in one month to the first day of bleeding in the next month. The average menstrual cycle is about 28 days, but cycles that are 21–45 days also are normal. It may take 6 years or more after your period starts for your cycle to get regular.
On an average a period lasts between 3 to 5 days. It is normal for a girl to have irregular periods in the beginning. During this time, the duration of her periods may vary from as short as 2 days to as long as 7 days. It can take up to a year for periods to become regular. 
How long does your period last? Generally, the bleeding lasts for 3-7 days, although longer than a  week is not uncommon. The entire cycle usually lasts for roughly a  month (28 days), but the cycles can b … e long or short while still  during puberty. 
A. Your first period may last from two to seven days. Then, there might be 30 to 40 days, or even longer, before you have another period. Your next period might be heavier or lighter than the first. Don't worry if you have your first period and then don't have another for four to six months. 