Size & characteristics. The average size of a male Komodo dragon is 8 to 9 feet and about 200 lbs., according to the Smithsonian National Zoological Park, but they can reach a whopping 10 feet (3 meters) in length. Females grow to 6 feet (1.8 m). Komodo dragons are the largest living lizards in the world. They are identified by their massive size, flat heads, bowed legs and long, thick tails.
The Komodo dragon (Varanus komodoensis), also known as the Komodo monitor, is a large species of lizard found in the Indonesian islands of Komodo, Rinca, Flores, Gili Motang, and Padar. Komodo dragon group behaviour in hunting is exceptional in the reptile world. The diet of big Komodo dragons mainly consists of deer, though they also eat considerable amounts of carrion. Komodo dragons also occasionally attack humans in the area of West Manggarai Regency where they live in Indonesia.
3,564 pages on this wiki. The Komodo dragon, (Varanus komodoensis), also known as the komodo monitor, is a large species of lizard found in the Indonesian islands of Komodo, Rinca, Flores, Gili Motang, and Padar. 
A group of dragons is referred to as a Clan. This was due to the fact that Dragons were believed to be sentient creatures, thus if they travelled together it was because they chose to be a part of that clan for more reasons than just being in a group. Bonus: A group of dragon eggs is called a Clutch. like a flock of birds, or a herd of cows.Komodo dragons are in the lizard group, So I think the collective noun would be A Lounge of Komodo Dragons. However, Iguanas are also lizards, but I've heard a group of Iguanas is called a Mess.. Terms of venery are arbitrary at best... I guess it's whichever you like best
Komodo dragons are the world's largest lizards. They live on the islands of Komodo, Rinca and other tiny surrounding islands, and on the westernmost part of Flores Island in Indonesia. Komodo is west of Flores, east of Sumbawa, and north of Sumba. If you are an ordinary person, you can only reach Komodo by boat.
A group of Dragons is referred to as a Clan. This was due to the fact that Dragons were believed to be sentient creatures, thus if they travelled together it was because they chose to be a part of that clan for more reasons than just being in a group. Read more: http://wiki.answers.com/Q/What_is_a_grou... 
Edit: I think he's referring to the collective noun/term of venery. like a flock of birds, or a herd of cows.Komodo dragons are in the lizard group, So I think the collective noun would be A Lounge of Komodo Dragons. However, Iguanas are also lizards, but I've heard a group of Iguanas is called a Mess.. Terms of venery are arbitrary at best... I guess it's whichever you like best. 
About Komodo Dragon The Komodo Dragon is the largest lizard in the world. They are part of a group of lizards called monitors. Monitors have long, forked tongues and powerful legs. Komodo Dragons can weigh more than 200 pounds (90kg). They are meat-eaters, eating lots of different animals. They are strong enough to kill a horse.
As a result of their size, these lizards dominate the ecosystems in which they live. Although Komodo dragons eat mostly carrion, they will also hunt and ambush prey including invertebrates, birds, and mammals. 