Arteries: Elastic vessels able to carry blood away from the heart under high pressure. Arterioles: Subdivisions of arteries; they are thinner and have muscles that are innervated by the sympathetic nervous system. Atria: The upper chambers of the heart; they receive blood returning to the heart. Veins: Blood vessels that carry blood back to the atria; they are less elastic than arteries. Ventricles: The lower chambers of the heart; they receive blood from the atria, which they pump out into the arteries. Venules: Microscopic vessels that link capillaries to veins.
The venous drainage of the upper limb is composed of superficial and deep vessels. The deep veins accompany the arteries. They are connected to the superficial system by perforating veins. The superficial veins starts on the back of the hand as a dorsal arch. 
However, in pulmonary circulation, the arteries carry deoxygenated blood from the heart to the lungs, and veins return blood from the lungs to the heart. The difference between veins and arteries is their direction of flow (out of the heart by arteries, returning to the heart for veins), not their oxygen content. In addition, deoxygenated blood that is carried from the tissues back to the heart for reoxygenation in systemic circulation still carries some oxygen, though it is considerably less than that carried by the systemic arteries or pulmonary veins. Although most veins take blood back to the heart, there is an exception.
The arteries are perceived as carrying oxygenated blood to the tissues, while veins carry deoxygenated blood back to the heart. This is true of the systemic circulation, by far the larger of the two circuits of blood in the body, which transports oxygen from the heart to the tissues of the body. In addition, deoxygenated blood that is carried from the tissues back to the heart for reoxygenation in systemic circulation still carries some oxygen, though it is considerably less than that carried by the systemic arteries or pulmonary veins. Although most veins take blood back to the heart, there is an exception.
The Blood Vessels and Circulation The blood vessels of the human body carry blood to every type of tissue and organ. Vessels decrease in size as they move away from the heart (arteries and arterioles), ending in the capillaries, and then increase in size as they move toward the heart (venules and veins). Veins: Blood vessels that carry blood back to the atria; they are less elastic than arteries. Ventricles: The lower chambers of the heart; they receive blood from the atria, which they pump out into the arteries. Venules: Microscopic vessels that link capillaries to veins.
The heart is a pumping system which takes in deoxygenated blood through the veins and delivers it to the lungs for oxygenation before pumping it into the various arteries (which provide oxygen and nutrients to body tissues by transporting the blood throughout the body). The right side of the heart receives deoxygenated blood from the systemic veins and pumps it to the lungs for oxygenation. The left side of the heart receives oxygenated blood from the lungs and pumps it through the systemic arteries to the tissues of the body.
In the circulatory system, veins (from the Latin vena) are blood vessels that carry blood toward the heart. Most veins carry deoxygenated blood from the tissues back to the heart; exceptions are the pulmonary and umbilical veins, both of which carry oxygenated blood to the heart. In contrast to veins, arteries carry blood away from the heart. In addition, deoxygenated blood that is carried from the tissues back to the heart for reoxygenation in systemic circulation still carries some oxygen, though it is considerably less than that carried by the systemic arteries or pulmonary veins. Although most veins take blood back to the heart, there is an exception.
Functioning at the end of the circulatory cycle, the veins of the upper torso carry deoxygenated blood from the tissues of the body back to the heart to be pumped through the body again. Blood returning to the heart from the lower torso and legs enters the upper torso in a large vein called the inferior vena cava. Each pulmonary vein carries blood from a lung back to the heart where it reenters through the left atrium. Oxygenated blood exits the left ventricle of the heart and enters the aorta, the largest artery in the human body.
Veins are blood vessels that carry blood from your body's tissues to your heart. The heart pumps the blood to your lungs to pick up oxygen. The oxygen-rich blood is then pumped out to your body through your arteries. Varicose (VAR-i-kos) veins are swollen, twisted veins that you can see just under the surface of the skin. These veins usually occur in the legs. However, they also can form in other parts of your body. Varicose veins are a common condition.
Blood vessels form a closed circuit of tubes that carry blood from the heart to the body cells and back again. This circuit consists of arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules, and veins. Blood pressure is the force that blood exerts against the insides of blood vessels. Veins: Blood vessels that carry blood back to the atria; they are less elastic than arteries. Ventricles: The lower chambers of the heart; they receive blood from the atria, which they pump out into the arteries. Venules: Microscopic vessels that link capillaries to veins.