A. Connotation is the literal meaning of a word, while denotation is the figurative meaning. B. Connotation is the implied meaning of a word and/or the emotional associations with it, while denotation is the dictionary definition. C. Connotation is the positive association with a word, while denotation is the negative association with it.
Connotation Determines Use. The connotative anddenotativemeanings of words are both correct, but a word’s connotation determines when it is used. By definition, synonyms have the same denotation or literal meaning, but almost always have different connotations, or shades of meaning. Connotative vs. Denotative Vocabulary. Words are not limited to one single meaning. Most words have multiple meanings, which are categorized as either denotative or connotative. The denotation of a word is its explicit definition as listed in a dictionary.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Connotation is the tone or emotional association that a word has. It can be negative or positive, but is usually something seen by the population in general. For example, slim and scrawny both mean that a person is thin. Child has a relatively neutral connotation, while little one has a positive connotation and brat is negative. When trying to recognize the connotation of a word, go with your gut. You can usually tell just by reading it if the word is associated with positive or negative emotions, or with no emotions.
This word has distinct meanings in logic, philosophy, and common usage. See connotation. In semiotics, connotation arises when the denotative relationship between a signifier and its signified is inadequate to serve the needs of the community. A second level of meanings is termed connotative. These meanings are not objective representations of the thing, but new usages produced by the language group
Connote redirects here. For Connote number, see Waybill. A connotation is a commonly understood cultural or emotional association that some word or phrase carries, in addition to the word's or phrase's explicit or literal meaning, which is its denotation. 
Denotation is generally defined as literal or dictionary meanings of a word in contrast to its connotative or associated meanings. Let us try to understand this term with the help of an example. 
When you look up a word in the dictionary, you will find its literal (denotative) meaning. However, the emotions and associations connected to a word is known as its connotative meaning. Depending on our experiences, certain words have a positive, negative, or neutral connotation. Understanding a word's literal (denotative) and suggestive (connotative) meanings is important for every speaker and writer.
Connotation Definition. Connotation refers to a meaning that is implied by a word apart from the thing which it describes explicitly. Words carry cultural and emotional associations or meanings in addition to their literal meanings or denotations. For example, the words childish, childlike and youthful have the same denotative but different connotative meanings. Childish and childlike have a negative connotation as they refer to immature behavior of a person. Whereas, youthful implies that a person is lively and energetic.
The connotation of a word refers to the emotional or cultural association with that word rather than its dictionary definition. The connotation definition is therefore not the explicit meaning of the word, but rather the meaning that the word implies. B. Connotation is the implied meaning of a word and/or the emotional associations with it, while denotation is the dictionary definition. C. Connotation is the positive association with a word, while denotation is the negative association with it.