Columbia University 1996 The federal government of the United States was created by the Constitution, which went into operation in 1789 when the first Congress convened and George Washington took the oath of office as president.
Learn more about the federal agencies and commissions in the U.S. federal government. There are hundreds of federal agencies and commissions charged with handling such responsibilities as managing America's space program, protecting its forests, and gathering intelligence. 
A federal system of government is one that divides the powers of government between the national (federal) government and state and local governments. The Constitution of the United States established the federal system, also known as federalism. Many delegates … feared a national government that was too strong and many delegates feared that states' rights would merely continue the weak form of government under the Articles. The Constitution created a federal system of government (federalism) as a compromise. Under federalism, power is shared and divided between national and state governments. Both levels have their own agencies and officials and directly affect the people. The Founding Fathers really had no other choice except
To ensure a separation of powers, the U.S. Federal Government is made up of three branches: legislative, executive and judicial. To ensure the government is effective and citizens’ rights are protected, each branch has its own powers and responsibilities, including working with the other branches. 
As discussed yesterday the Constitution created at the Second Constitutional Convention was built in the spirit of compromise. Today we examine another balancing act, the balance of powers between the state and federal government. I. The Delegates Create a Federal Government. A. Federalism. 1. A system of government that creates a central government and local state governments.
The Constitution was written by the thirteen original states. The federal government created by the states, via the Constitution, exists to serve the states. Until the states delegated some powers to the new federal government, those powers belonged to the states. So, without the Constitution, the states and the people have all the rights and there is no federal government. With the Constitution, the states and the people keep any rights not specifically delegated to the federal government by the Constitution. The Constitution states this very clearly.
The most obvious protection of state powers was enumerated in the form of the tenth amendment. Madison wrote in Federalist 45,  the powers delegated by the proposed Constitution to the federal government are few and defined. In the era of massive federal government expansion, simple facts are easily lost. Lest we lose hold of our plumb line, even the simplest, most basic tenets of our founding principles bear repeating. Central to this story are the often forgotten Articles of Confederation; America's first Constitution.
The short-lived Articles created a loose confederation of states. No president, no supreme court, no federal agencies -- just a Congress in charge of a brand new nation of mostly independent states. In the era of massive federal government expansion, simple facts are easily lost. Lest we lose hold of our plumb line, even the simplest, most basic tenets of our founding principles bear repeating. Central to this story are the often forgotten Articles of Confederation; America's first Constitution.
The Bank Act created the FHLBank System and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board (FHLBank Board) as its regulator. [6] The federal government also created the Home Owners’ Loan Corporation (HOLC), the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), and Fannie Mae. 