Lao Tzu (Laozi) is traditionally described as the founder of Taoism, but modern writers think he is a legendary figure, and that the book attributed to him-the Tao Te Ching-is actually a collection of writings by many different wise people. In that way it's like the Biblical Book of Proverbs. The term Lao Tzu may not be the name of a person, but a reference to 'the old master', meaning the accumulated wisdom of the elders, the wise old men and women of the culture in which Taoism originated.
The primary religious figures in Taoism are Lao Tzu and Chuang Tzu, two scholars who dedicated their lives to balancing their inner spirits.  Hsien, in Chinese Taoism, is an … immortal who has achieved divinity through devotion to Taoist practices and teachings.  other well known figures include: Immortal Lu Dong Bin; the Jade Emperor; the Three Purities; and the also-Buddhist Kuan Yin. Lao Tzu is the key historical figure. Living sometimetime between the 6th and 2nd centuries B.C.E, he wrote the Tao Te Ching.
Taoism (sometimes Daoism) is a philosophical, ethical or religious tradition of Chinese origin, or faith of Chinese exemplification, that emphasizes living in harmony with the Tao (also romanized as Dao). Today, Taoism is one of five religions officially recognized in China, and although it does not travel readily from its Asian roots, claims adherents in a number of societies. Taoism also has sizable communities in Hong Kong, Taiwan, Japan and in Southeast Asia.
Taoism, also known as Daoism, is an indigenous Chinese religion often associated with the Daode jing (Tao Te Ching), a philosophical and political text purportedly written by Laozi (Lao Tzu) sometime in the 3rd or 4th centuries B.C.E. 
Chuang Tzu. The other main figure of Taoism is Chuang Tzu (Zhuangzi), 3rd century BCE. Chuang Tzu has a book attributed to him, called the Chuang-Tzu after the practice of referring to Chinese texts by the names of their authors. In that way it's like the Biblical Book of Proverbs. The term Lao Tzu may not be the name of a person, but a reference to 'the old master', meaning the accumulated wisdom of the elders, the wise old men and women of the culture in which Taoism originated.
This article gives a brief overview of Lao Tzu, who is traditionally described as the founder of Taoism. In that way it's like the Biblical Book of Proverbs. The term Lao Tzu may not be the name of a person, but a reference to 'the old master', meaning the accumulated wisdom of the elders, the wise old men and women of the culture in which Taoism originated.
By Elizabeth Reninger. The founder of Taoism is Laozi (also spelled Lao-Tzu), whose literal translation means ancient child.. Very little is known about Laozi's life. What we do know is that his birth name was Li Erh, and that he was a native of the southern feudal state of Chu. 
Lao-Tzu (also known as Laozi or Lao-Tze) was a Chinese philosopher credited with founding the philosophical system of Taoism. He is best known as the author of the Tao-Te-Ching, the work which exemplifies his thought. 
The primary religious figures in Taoism are Lao Tzu and Chuang Tzu, two scholars who dedicated their lives to balancing their inner spirits. Hsien, in Chinese Taoism, is an immortal who has achieved divinity through devotion to Taoist practices and teachings. other well known figures include: Immortal Lu Dong Bin; the Jade Emperor; the Three Purities; and the also-Buddhist Kuan Yin.