All modern Western-style democracies are types of representative democracies; for example, the United Kingdom is a constitutional monarchy and Germany is a parliamentary republic. Representative democracy is often presented as the only form of democracy possible in mass societies. It arguably allows for efficient ruling by a sufficiently small number of people on behalf of the larger number. 
The United States is a federal republic, and operates under a form of representative democracy whereby people are elected to represent the will of their respective home region … s (rather than a direct democracy where decisions are put to a vote of the citizenry). It is a representative democracy. In a direct democracy, citizens vote directly on issues concerning the community, while in a representative democracy, the citizens vote on p … eople to represent them in making the decisions. 42 people found this useful.
The United States is a multi-faceted Representative Democracy: we elect representatives in many aspects of our government form, all of which have specific duties and limits on power. We periodically have elections to either retain or replace our representatives. A Representative form of government is one where (some) citizens chose another citizen to make political decisions for them. That is, rather than a citizen being directly involved in politics and government, they chose a proxy to make their choice for them.
To be sure, in addition to being a representative democracy, the United States is also a constitutional democracy, in which courts restrain in some measure the democratic will. And the United States is therefore also a constitutional republic. Indeed, the United States might be labeled a constitutional federal representative democracy. But where one word is used, with all the oversimplification that this necessary entails, “democracy” and “republic” both work.
But there is no basis for saying that the United States is somehow “not a democracy, but a republic.” “Democracy” and “republic” aren’t just words that a speaker can arbitrarily define to mean something (e.g., defining democracy as “a form of government in which all laws are made directly by the people”). And the United States is therefore also a constitutional republic. Indeed, the United States might be labeled a constitutional federal representative democracy. But where one word is used, with all the oversimplification that this necessary entails, “democracy” and “republic” both work.
A Democracy in its most simplest form means a system of government where individual citizens have a direct [and meaningful] vote in their government. There are many different kinds of democracies-variations on what is a citizen, who can vote, and who or what they vote for. A Representative form of government is one where (some) citizens chose another citizen to make political decisions for them. That is, rather than a citizen being directly involved in politics and government, they chose a proxy to make their choice for them.
The United States of America is a representative democracy, also called a democratic republic, which is a form of government in which the people elect officials to represent them. This is why we have a constitutional republic. The United States is a grouping of Constitutional Republics unified under a Federal system. While the United States as a whole may have facets of a Representative Democracy (direct elections, individual liberties, govt.
Report Abuse. Technically, we have a democratic republic, a representative democracy. We are a republic to the extent that we have a government in which the people (demos) vote for representatives. In the Roman republic, the wealthy only were citizens and allowed to vote, so although it was a republic, it was not a democracy or government by the people.
The United States is, indeed, a republic, not a democracy. Accurately defined, a democracy is a form of government in which the people decide policy matters directly--through town hall meetings or by voting on ballot initiatives and referendums. By popular usage, however, the word democracy come to mean a form of government in which the government derives its power from the people and is accountable to them for the use of that power. In this sense the United States might accurately be called a democracy.