Pertussis is an acute infectious disease caused by the bacterium Bordetella pertussis. In the 20 th century, pertussis was one of the most common childhood diseases and a major cause of childhood mortality in the United States. 
Previously called Alcaligenes fecalis. Bordetella bronchiseptica. a small, gram-negative, motile bacillus. A normal inhabitant of the respiratory tract in humans, dogs and pigs, but also causes pneumonia, stillbirths, abortions, canine infectious tracheobronchitis (see kennel cough) and atrophic rhinitis in pigs. B pertussis produces various toxins including a dermo-necrotising toxin, an adenyl cyclase, an endotoxin and pertussis toxin, as well as surface components such as fimbrial haemagglutinin. Clinical findings. Runny nose, sneezing, mild cough, low-grade fever.
Bordetella is a genus of small (0.2 - 0.7 µm), Gram-negative coccobacilli of the phylum Proteobacteria. Bordetella species, with the exception of B. petrii, are obligate aerobes, as well as highly fastidious, or difficult to culture. Three species are human pathogens (B. pertussis, B. parapertussis, B. bronchiseptica); one of these (B. bronchiseptica) is also motile. B. pertussis and occasionally B. parapertussis cause pertussis or whooping cough in humans, and some B. parapertussis strains can colonise sheep. B. bronchiseptica rarely infects healthy humans, though disease in immunocompromised patients has been reported.
Definition. Whooping cough (pertussis) is a highly contagious respiratory tract infection. In many people, it's marked by a severe hacking cough followed by a high-pitched intake of breath that sounds like whoop.. Before the vaccine was developed, whooping cough was considered a childhood disease
Full Definition of WHOOPING COUGH. : an infectious respiratory disease especially of children caused by a bacterium (Bordetella pertussis) and marked by a convulsive spasmodic cough sometimes followed by a crowing intake of breath —called also pertussis. See whooping cough defined for English-language learners. See whooping cough defined for kids
Medical Definition of BORDETELLA. : a genus of bacteria comprising very short gram-negative strictly aerobic coccuslike bacilli and including the causative agent (B. pertussis) of whooping cough. J.–J.–B.–V. Bordet —see bordet-gengou. What made you want to look up Bordetella? : a genus of bacteria comprising very short gram-negative strictly aerobic coccuslike bacilli and including the causative agent (B. pertussis) of whooping cough. J.–J.–B.–V. Bordet —see bordet-gengou
Bordetella pertussis is a Gram-negative, aerobic coccobacillus capsulate of the genus Bordetella, and the causative agent of pertussis or whooping cough. Unlike B. bronchiseptica, B. pertussis is not motile. It may become airborne when the person coughs, sneezes, or laughs. Pertussis vaccine is part of the diphtheria, tetanus, and acellular pertussis (DTaP) immunization. The paroxysmal cough precedes a crowing inspiratory sound characteristic of pertussis.
Pertussis (or whooping cough) is an infection of the respiratory system characterized by a “whooping” sound when the person breathes in. It may become airborne when the person coughs, sneezes, or laughs. Pertussis vaccine is part of the diphtheria, tetanus, and acellular pertussis (DTaP) immunization. The paroxysmal cough precedes a crowing inspiratory sound characteristic of pertussis.
Pertussis [edit]. Pertussis (or whooping cough) is an infection of the respiratory system characterized by a “whooping” sound when the person breathes in. In the US, it killed between 10,000 and 20,000 people per year before a vaccine was available. It may become airborne when the person coughs, sneezes, or laughs. Pertussis vaccine is part of the diphtheria, tetanus, and acellular pertussis (DTaP) immunization. The paroxysmal cough precedes a crowing inspiratory sound characteristic of pertussis.