The average DaVita salary ranges from approximately $20,000 per year for Patient Care Technician to $255,000 per year for Vice President. Average DaVita hourly pay ranges from approximately $10.50 per hour for Pct to $40.00 per hour for Staff Nurse. 
Average Dialysis Nurse salaries for job postings nationwide are 13% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide. 
Years of Experience. Survey participants who have worked at DaVita Inc. for between five and 10 years earn about $18.72 per hour on average. When we consider tenure, a substantial portion of employees (35 percent) have been working for one to four years and make $16.94 per hour on average. The best paid folks at DaVita Inc. have a Master of Social Work (MSW), Clinical Social Work (CSW), earning $34.70 per hour. When it comes to skills, employees who report Case Management among their abilities seem to make the most, reporting a median income of $28.18 per hour.
Average Dialysis Nursing salaries for job postings in Alaska are 26% lower than average Dialysis Nursing salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 48th among states in the country. Average Dialysis Nursing salaries for job postings in Massachusetts are 20% higher than average Dialysis Nursing salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 2nd among states in the country.
Education, region, and experience play a huge role on job outlook within the field of dialysis nursing, but the average range of salary for a registered nurse or an advanced practice registered nurse falls between $44,000 and $95,000. Average Dialysis Nursing salaries for job postings in Massachusetts are 20% higher than average Dialysis Nursing salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 2nd among states in the country.
DaVita Inc. workers report earning an average of $19.71 per hour. Adding overtime compensation raises that to $27.75. Your role at the company is the biggest factor affecting pay for DaVita Inc. workers, followed by your city and how long you've been working. The best paid folks at DaVita Inc. have a Master of Social Work (MSW), Clinical Social Work (CSW), earning $34.70 per hour. When it comes to skills, employees who report Case Management among their abilities seem to make the most, reporting a median income of $28.18 per hour.
The highest paychecks go to Dialysis Registered Nurses, who earn an average about $29.37 per hour, closely trailed by Licensed Practical Nurses (around $19.21), Certified Hemodialysis Technicians ($15.29), and Administrative Assistants ($14.92). The best paid folks at DaVita Inc. have a Master of Social Work (MSW), Clinical Social Work (CSW), earning $34.70 per hour. When it comes to skills, employees who report Case Management among their abilities seem to make the most, reporting a median income of $28.18 per hour.
Average Dialysis Nursing salaries for job postings in Connecticut are 15% higher than average Dialysis Nursing salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 4th among states in the country. Average Dialysis Nursing salaries for job postings in Massachusetts are 20% higher than average Dialysis Nursing salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 2nd among states in the country.
Average Dialysis Nursing salaries for job postings in Idaho are 33% lower than average Dialysis Nursing salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 50th among states in the country. There were also job openings from employers like DSI Renal Inc., Fresenius Medical Care, DaVita, and Onward Healthcare. Average Dialysis Nursing salaries for job postings in Massachusetts are 20% higher than average Dialysis Nursing salaries for job postings nationwide. The average salary ranks 2nd among states in the country.