Platypuses are found in eastern Australia alone. Platypuses live throughout eastern coastal Australia and its island state of Tasmania, particularly within heavily wooded and protected regions. They are found from the cooler sub-alpine areas in the south, such as Victoria and the Tasmanian highlands, north through New South Wales to tropical far north Queensland.
Platypuses are found in eastern Australia alone. Platypuses live throughout eastern coastal Australia and its island state of Tasmania, particularly within heavily wooded an … d protected regions.
The Platypus (Ornithorhynchus anatinus) is a semi-aquatic mammal  endemic to eastern Australia and Tasmania. Together with the  short-beaked and long-beaked echidna, it is o … ne of the three  species of monotremes, the only mammals that lay eggs instead of  giving birth to live young.
The platypus is found in Eastern Australia in freshwater streams and rivers. Platypus live in burrows that they dig along the banks of streams and rivers that they use as a food source. Hawks, eagles, owls, crocodiles, water-rats, pythons, goannas, foxes, dogs, and cats make up the predators of the platypus.
Platypuses are both bizarre looking and unusually adapted. They belong to a sub-group of mammals that lay eggs rather than giving birth to live young (monotremes). When the first platypus was shipped to Britain from Australia, people thought it was a joke and that someone had sewn a duck's bill to a mammal's body.
Platypus live only in the eastern parts of Australia. There are no populations elsewhere in the world. In Australia, the animals are found in Tasmania, Victoria, New South Wales and Queensland to about as far north as Cooktown.
The platypus (Ornithorhynchus anatinus) is almost extinct, so platypus habitat is hard to find. In fact, the only place you can find platypus habitat is in eastern Australia and Tasmania. The platypus is nearing extinction because it was over-hunted for its fur, especially in the beginning of the twentieth century. Today the animal is on the Endangered Species List and is protected by law across Australia.