Patel is a trade name and previous caste of village leaders. The modern Patel communities have branched out of agriculture to a variety of business trades, especially in hotels. Patels dominate pharmaceutical, chemical, medical, plastic, building construction, ceramic and diamond industry in Gujarat.
List of Hindu baby names, Hindu baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Hindu names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Hindu baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Pratyusha in Hindu origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details. Hearing not up to mark. When new born babies are born, their hearing power is not complete i.e. 100%. The middle ear of the infant is filled with fluid which makes only partial hearing possible. Also, they are able easily able to recognize the voice of their mother.
Here are pictures of people with the name Pavan. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com!
Higher ratio of birth mark. The ratio of birth mark among babies is very high i.e. one baby born out of every 3 babies have a birth mark present on their body. Baby girls have more probability of birth marks than baby boys. Hearing not up to mark. When new born babies are born, their hearing power is not complete i.e. 100%. The middle ear of the infant is filled with fluid which makes only partial hearing possible. Also, they are able easily able to recognize the voice of their mother.
The term patel derives from the word Patidar, Pat, which refers to a piece of land. Consequently, the name Patel referred to one who was tasked with taking care of or farming that piece of land. The modern Patel communities have branched out of agriculture to a variety of business trades, especially in hotels. Patels dominate pharmaceutical, chemical, medical, plastic, building construction, ceramic and diamond industry in Gujarat.
The baby boy or baby girl name Pratyusha comes from the Indian word which means, Early Morning. Sanskrit word which means, Duration of time between night and sunrise, i.e the changing time between night and sunrise.... Telugu word which means, MOST GORGEOUS.. Sanskrit word which means, sunrise.. People with this name tend to be filled with the joy of life. They are quite imaginative and enthusiastic. They may fear routine and might lack self-discipline. Professionally, they can be successful as a press secretary, planner, or small business promoter.
Meaning of the name Pratyusha is 'Skilled'. Pratyusha is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Pratyusha is '3'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Pratyusha 
The 'Patel' of a village in the mid-1500-1900 state of Gujarat, would be a member of the village committee who would help represent the whole village's views to the local council and take the lead in resolving problems and implementing ideas. The modern Patel communities have branched out of agriculture to a variety of business trades, especially in hotels. Patels dominate pharmaceutical, chemical, medical, plastic, building construction, ceramic and diamond industry in Gujarat.