1 PFOS was the key ingredient in Scotchgard, a fabric protector made by 3M, and numerous stain repellents. 2  PFOS, together with PFOA, has also been used to make aqueous film forming foam (AFFF), a component of fire-fighting foams, and alcohol-type concentrate foams. Volatile sulfonamide PFOS precursors include N-methyl perfluorooctane sulfonamidoethanol (N-MeFOSE), a carpet stain repellent, and N-ethyl perfluorooctane sulfonamidoethanol (N-EtFOSE), a paper treatment. Perfluorooctanesulfonamide is a precursor.
Perfluorooctanesulfonic acid, or perfluorooctanesulfonate (PFOS), is a man-made fluorosurfactant and global pollutant. PFOS was added to Annex B of the Stockholm Convention on Persistent Organic Pollutants in May 2009. Southern Fishing News (SFN) posted a perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) warning on the SFN Facebook page in response to an Advisory from the Alabama Department of Public Health (ADPH) for a segment of Wheeler Lake seven miles long. This “Advisory” was published on a specific location on the Internet.
-------- ---------. PFOS. PFOA is perfluorooctanoic acid and is sometimes called C8 or C-8. It is a man-made chemical and does not occur naturally in the environment. Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA or C8) CAS No: 335-67-1. Molecular formula: The PFOA acronym is used to indicate not only perfluorooctanoic acid itself, but also its principal salts.
PFOS is the perfluorooctane sulphonate anion and is not a substance as such. The term PFOS-related substance is used to refer to any or all of the substances which contain the PFOS moiety (defined as the C8F17SO2 group) and may break down in the environment to give PFOS. It is a man-made chemical and does not occur naturally in the environment. Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA or C8) CAS No: 335-67-1. Molecular formula: The PFOA acronym is used to indicate not only perfluorooctanoic acid itself, but also its principal salts.
Perfluorooctanesulfonic acid or perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) is a man-made fluorosurfactant and global pollutant. PFOS was the key ingredient in Scotchgard, a fabric protector made by 3M, and numerous stain repellents. Volatile sulfonamide PFOS precursors include N-methyl perfluorooctane sulfonamidoethanol (N-MeFOSE), a carpet stain repellent, and N-ethyl perfluorooctane sulfonamidoethanol (N-EtFOSE), a paper treatment. Perfluorooctanesulfonamide is a precursor.
It has also been found that dermal exposure can lead to skin irritation. Furthermore PFOS compounds break down into Perfluorooctane sulfonate-a chemical that is a persistent organic pollutant (POP). Once POPs are in the environment, they are very difficult to get rid of. They can cross international boundaries by air and water currents and bioaccumulate to toxic levels in plants and animals. 
1 Perfluorooctane Sulfonate (PFOS) is a synthetic (man-made) chemical substance belonging to a large family of compounds known as perfluorinated chemicals. Perfluorooctane Sulfonate (PFOS). 1  Perfluorooctane Sulfonate (PFOS) is a synthetic (man-made) chemical substance belonging to a large family of compounds known as perfluorinated chemicals.
Teflon ® is a brand name for a man-made chemical known as polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE). It has been in commercial use since the 1940s. It has a wide variety of applications because it is extremely stable (it doesn't react with other chemicals) and can provide an almost frictionless surface. Most people are familiar with it as a non-stick coating surface for pans and other cookware. It is also used in many other products, such as fabric protectors. Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA), also known as C8, is another man-made chemical. It is used in the process of making Teflon and similar chemicals (known as fluorotelomers), although it is burned off during the process and is not present in significant amounts in the final products