A stress fracture is a small crack in a bone. These fractures are most often a result of overuse and are commonly seen with an increase in activity. Stress fractures occur most commonly in the weight-bearing bones of the legs. 
The impact forces of running make our bones stronger, however, our bones can only adapt at a gradual rate. That is why you may get a stress fracture from increasing your mileage too quickly from 20 to 40 miles per week, but a few years later may handle 60 miles per week with no problems. (This column originally appeared in Running Times Magazine.). A Sample Program Each runner s recovery from injury is unique. This sample program is based on several runners stress fractures of the tibia and metatarsals. Time off from running for these runners varied from 4 to 8 weeks.
Overview. A stress fracture is a small crack in a bone caused by overuse and high impact. A stress fracture results from repetitive use injuries that exceed the ability of the bone to repair itself. Impact forces are transferred to the bones, causing microfractures that consolidate into stress fractures. Stress fractures occur in weight-bearing areas, commonly the lower leg (tibia) and foot (metatarsals).
Stress fractures heal with time and rest. Athletes are advised to rest from any activity that caused the stress fracture for the 6-14 weeks that the fractures take to heal (ask your doctor how long your particular fracture will probably take to heal), or until pain-free for 2-3 weeks. A stress fracture results from repetitive use injuries that exceed the ability of the bone to repair itself. Impact forces are transferred to the bones, causing microfractures that consolidate into stress fractures. Stress fractures occur in weight-bearing areas, commonly the lower leg (tibia) and foot (metatarsals).
The answer to that question depends on the site and severity of the injury, how long you were off running, and your overall health status. On average, it takes 90 days for a stress fracture to heal completely. So, while you may be able to resume running 6 to 8 weeks after the initial diagnosis, it is critical to start back slowly and increase your mileage gradually to allow the final healing to take place. A Sample Program Each runner s recovery from injury is unique. This sample program is based on several runners stress fractures of the tibia and metatarsals. Time off from running for these runners varied from 4 to 8 weeks.
A stress fracture, also known as a hairline fracture, is a fatigue-induced fracture of the bone caused by repeated stress over time. Instead of resulting from a single severe impact, stress fractures are the result of accumulated trauma from repeated submaximal loading, such as running or jumping. Stress fractures most frequently occur in weight-bearing bones, such as the tibia (bone of the lower leg), metatarsals, and navicular bones (bones of the foot). Less common are fractures to the femur, pelvis, and sacrum.
Before running after a stress fracture, let alone ramping up training to what you were doing before you were injured, you must let the bone heal. Like breaks from singular traumas, a stress fracture is a break in a bone. Stress fractures, on the other hand, result from overuse, or repetitive overload. To figure out how much time you need to recover before running, check out these healing times for common stress fractures, but be sure to consult with your health care provider to make sure you’re ready: Toe (metatarsal): 6-8 weeks. Heel (calcaneus): up to 12 weeks.
How long a bone takes to heal from a stress fracture depends on the bone. To figure out how much time you need to recover before running, check out these healing times for common stress fractures, but be sure to consult with your health care provider to make sure you’re ready: Toe (metatarsal): 6-8 weeks. Heel (calcaneus): up to 12 weeks. Thigh (femur): 18-20 weeks
Stress Fractures of the Foot and Ankle. A stress fracture is a small crack in a bone, or severe bruising within a bone. Most stress fractures are caused by overuse and repetitive activity, and are common in runners and athletes who participate in running sports, such as soccer and basketball. Description. Stress fractures occur most often in the second and third metatarsals in the foot, which are thinner (and often longer) than the adjacent first metatarsal. This is the area of greatest impact on your foot as you push off when you walk or run. Stress fractures are also common in the calcaneus (heel); fibula (the outer bone of the lower leg and ankle); talus (a small bone in the ankle joint); and the navicular (a bone on the top of the midfoot)