In general, reloading your own brass cases can save you half the cost of new factory ammo. The brass case is the most expensive component of a round of ammunition and it can typically be reused many times.
Here I am trying my hand at reloading some steel cased .223. mostly Tulammo.This is not a debate over weather or not this should be done but more of a question of could it be done.
Demonstrating the reloading of berdan steel cases with regular primers, no special tools, and no case modifications. I deprime the berdan primers and replace them with standard large rifle primers. Facebook Page: http://www.facebook.com/mainejunker.
Boxer primed cases have a single, large flash hole in the center of the primer pocket. If your steel cases use a Boxer primer, reload the steel case as you would with a brass case. A lot of steel case ammo, however, uses Berdan primers. Berdan type primers do not have a built in anvil.
There are normally two different reasons given why shooters cannot reload a steel case: the case material and the primer. The case material is really not much of a problem. Brass is softer than steel, so it is easier to work on a press. But that doesn’t mean you can’t resize steel cases because you can. Steel isn’t likely to last through as many reloading trips as a brass case will.
Wal-Mart now has TulAmmo in 45acp. This is steel cased, boxer primed, polymer coated ammo, which, at today s ammo prices is about the only bargain out there. Before I stock up on a couple of cases of this stuff, I decided to shoot a little bit and see how my guns react to it.
This is a discussion on TulAmmo 45acp...can steel cases stand reloading? within the Ammunition forums, part of the M14 M1A Forum category; Wal-Mart now has TulAmmo in 45acp. This is steel cased, boxer primed, polymer coated ammo, which, at today s ammo prices is about the only bargain ...
The case in question is a surplus copper-washed, steel case for the 7.62x54r cartridge. Once you have the primer issue worked out, then reload the steel case ammo like you would a regular brass case. Sure, reloading steel cases with Berdan primers offer challenges, but it can be done.