Amazon Prime Hikes Price to $99. You could just suck it up and pay the freshly hiked rates for Amazon Prime. Or you could get a little creative, save some money, and still enjoy free shipping. Sure, Amazon’s free shipping for non-Prime members is slow—”your order will be delivered 5-8 business days after all of your items are available to ship,” Amazon explains —but hey, it’s free. And it’s truly free-free, not just “free” after you’ve paid $79, err $99, annually.
Anyone who signs up to Amazon Prime from Wednesday morning will have to pay 79/year up from the old price of 49/year. It offers unlimited free one-day delivery on more than seven million items and access to 500,000 Kindle books to borrow. Rivals Netflix and Now TV charge from 5.99/month (72/year) and 8.99/month (108/year) respectively, and with Prime Instant Video you get the benefit of free Amazon delivery too. See our Watch Movies Online guide for more information. For all the latest deals, guides and loopholes-join the 10m who get it.
Price : Netflix subscriptions currently cost $7.99 per month, but that price will rise by $1 or $2 for new members later this quarter. Existing members will keep their current price for a generous period of time. Assuming the $2 increase, Netflix will soon cost $119.88 per year. Amazon Prime membership costs $99 per year (or about $8.25 per month), but also includes unlimited, free two-day shipping on many items. You also get access to the company's growing selection of streaming TV shows and movies. Hulu Plus costs $7.99 per month or $95.88 per year. 
In the end, you'll find the service worth it if either benefit proves even remotely useful to you. Let's break down both services to get a more specific idea of what $99 per year gets you. Update: Amazon Prime, which used to be $79 a year, has gone up to $99 a year. 1 If you want faster shipping, you'll sometimes pay twice the base cost per shipment ($7.99 for apparel, $10.99 for computers for two-day shipping) and a higher per-item cost as well. 2  You can see the full breakdown on Amazon's help page.
A.: Amazon Prime is a paid service (Free 30-day trial, $99 per year) that gives Amazon shoppers a few distinct advantages. Members of Amazon Prime are eligible for: 1  Free two-day shipping on any eligible item without a minimum-order balance, and free same-day delivery (in 14 metro areas) on eligible orders more than $35. 1 Free two-day shipping on any eligible item without a minimum-order balance, and free same-day delivery (in 14 metro areas) on eligible orders more than $35. 2  Prime Pantry Delivery costs a flat $5.99 for delivery of heavy and bulky items.
Help & Customer Service. Amazon Prime offers multiple shipping benefits, including FREE Two-Day Shipping for eligible purchases. Members also get access to Amazon Instant Video and the ability to borrow books from the Kindle Owners' Lending Library. 
To get access to Amazon Prime's delivery service, you have to pay out for the whole package-an outlay of 79 a year. It does offer a 30 day free trial for new customers, so you can at least try it out beforehand, but you will be charged the full 79 if you do not cancel before this comes to an end. As of February 2014, Amazon Prime went from 49 to 79 per year. Whether it is worth its new price tag depends upon how often you are going to use it and working out whether it gives you value for money.
Netflix charges a monthly fee of $7.99 per month, which comes out to $95.88 per year. Amazon Prime costs $99 per year, which comes out to about $8.25 per month. Forgetting the nice shipping benefits you get with Prime, you pay about the same. If both services had the same library of options, you could justify a Prime membership in an instant. 1 If you want faster shipping, you'll sometimes pay twice the base cost per shipment ($7.99 for apparel, $10.99 for computers for two-day shipping) and a higher per-item cost as well. 2  You can see the full breakdown on Amazon's help page.
Amazon (AMZN) announced the annual membership will now cost $99 a year, up from $79. A student membership will cost $49 annually. In February, Amazon said it was considering raising the price to $119 a year. Prime members get two-day shipping on a large number of Amazon items at no extra cost, plus the ability to borrow Kindle books and stream movies and television shows. The company said blamed the increase on increase fuel and shipping costs.