The beneficial effect was maintained at 4 months after the conclusion of treatment. CONCLUSIONS: Azithromycin, 500 mg thrice weekly for 8 weeks, appears to be a safe and effective treatment for acne vulgaris in adolescents, with excellent patient compliance. Azithromycin, 500 mg orally thrice weekly for 8 weeks, was prescribed. No topical treatment was permitted. At the baseline visit, patients were scheduled to return at two-weekly intervals for 8 weeks. Efficacy was gauged by the percentage clearance of papulo-pustular acne lesions.
Patients have several options for taking Zithromax for acne treatment. Packages of six are commonly called a Z-Pak, and include a first day's dose of 500 mg, and four 250 mg dosages for the next four days. Patients take one Z-Pak each month, or a treatment starting on the 1st and another on the 15th. It is one of the antibiotics used for treating moderate to severe cases of acne, including inflammatory acne. Physicians typically prescribe Zithromax or other antibiotics when topical therapy has not worked very well, or for beginning treatment of severe acne.
I've been prescribed azithromycin by my doctor to combat my mild-moderate acne. I've been on the BP regimen on and off for years, and also use (near daily) glycolic acid lotion to exfoliate. I've been on the azithromycin for 5 weeks now, and my acne still isn't clearing up. It's not as inflamed as it used to be, but I still get pimples popping up on my forehead and upper cheeks on a regular basis.
Azithromycin is one of the antibiotics that has been recently used for acne treatment. There are several protocols of oral azithromycin in the treatment of acne. Objective: To compare three various regimens of oral azithromycin in the treatment of acne. Oral antibiotics is the most widely practiced systemic treatment administered for acne. Azithromycin is one of the antibiotics that has been recently prescribed for treatment of acne and is at least as effective as doxycycline and minocycline. [2] , [3] , [4] , [5].
[8]. The current adult dose of azithromycin is 500 mg daily for three days or alternatively, 500 mg as initial dose followed by 250 mg daily for a further four days. [6] , [7] There are several protocols of oral azithromycin for acne treatment. Oral antibiotics is the most widely practiced systemic treatment administered for acne. Azithromycin is one of the antibiotics that has been recently prescribed for treatment of acne and is at least as effective as doxycycline and minocycline. [2] , [3] , [4] , [5].
Acne can happen to anyone. Photo Credit JackF/iStock/Getty Images. Azithromycin is a prescription-only antibiotic sold in generic form and under the brand name Zithromax. It is one of the antibiotics used for treating moderate to severe cases of acne, including inflammatory acne. Physicians typically prescribe Zithromax or other antibiotics when topical therapy has not worked very well, or for beginning treatment of severe acne.
AIM: To study the efficacy, safety, and compliance of 500 mg azithromycin thrice weekly for 8 weeks to treat acne vulgaris in adolescents. METHODS: An open-label, non-comparative study was carried out for 8 weeks. Fifty-two teenagers with moderate to severe papulo-pustular acne vulgaris were enrolled. Azithromycin, 500 mg orally thrice weekly for 8 weeks, was prescribed. No topical treatment was permitted. At the baseline visit, patients were scheduled to return at two-weekly intervals for 8 weeks. Efficacy was gauged by the percentage clearance of papulo-pustular acne lesions.
Overall, Azithromycin is rated as a Mediocre treatment for acne. Users report that, Azithromycin is Somewhat Effective for improving acne symptoms and that this medication tends to have Mild side effects. Although there is a lot of research supporting the use of azithromycin to treat acne, it is not a commonly used for this purpose. Numerous studies have shown that azithromycin can produce a significant improvement of acne symptoms for some patients.