Sago pearls can be boiled with water or milk and sugar to make a sweet sago pudding. Sago pearls are similar in appearance to tapioca pearls and the two may be used interchangeably in some dishes. The name sago is also sometimes used for starch extracted from other sources, especially the sago cycad, Cycas revoluta. Sago is extracted from the sago cycad by cutting the pith from the stem, root and seeds of the cycads, grinding the pith to a coarse flour and then washing it carefully and repeatedly to leach out the natural toxins.
In India, tapioca is called sabu or sabudana. To add to the confusion, sago, which comes from another plant (Metroxylon) and cooks differently, goes by the same name. Tapioca and sago look alike. 
The recent craze is to serve the humble sago (tapioca or pearl balls) with milk and powdered artificial flavoring. I am not exactly into artificial flavoring especially the ones with artificial sweeteners. They always leave a nasty aftertaste. What I did earlier today was to make some sago drinks the traditional way. 
In Tamil, the roots of tapioca are called Maravallikezangu or Kuchikezangu, and are used to prepare chips. Tapioca is also used to prepare flour. Tapioca chips are also prepared in parts of South India. Tapioca Sago is available in different varieties. The Tapioca Pearls are known as “ Sabudana” in Marathi. It is commonly used as a food during fasting (popularly called khichadi) among Hindus in Western and Central Part of India (Gujarat and Maharashtra region).
Strictly speaking, sago is made with the starch from the pith of an array of tropical palm trees. Tapioca pearls, as the name so clearly tells us, is made with tapioca or the starch from cassava, a root crop. While the use of the starch is not always interchangeable, when the starch is cooked in pearl form, it really is overkill to be obsessed with the source of the starch. Prev. Next. 1. 2. 3. 
Sago is a starch taken from the center of sago palm stems. Sago has similarities to tapioca, including its look, taste and feel. However, sago is not tapioca, which comes from a different plant. You can, however, substitute tapioca for sago in many recipes. 
Zagu. However, referring tapioca pearls as sago is a misconception. Sago and tapioca are two different things. The first is a starch extracted from the spongy center or pith of various tropical palm stems (ubod in Tagalog), such as Metroxylon sagu. The latter is a starch derived from cassava
In Hindi, it is known as SABUDANA OR SABOODANA. The name Sago is derived from the original product which used to be manufactured from the starchy core of the stem of several palms, the principal being the sago palm. (Metroxylon sagu and M. rumphii). Sago is manufactured in India from the starch obtained from the tubers of Tapioca (Manihot utilissima). The Tapioca Pearls are known as “ Sabudana” in Marathi. It is commonly used as a food during fasting (popularly called khichadi) among Hindus in Western and Central Part of India (Gujarat and Maharashtra region).
Sago palms (Metroxylon sagu) in New Guinea. Sago /ˈseɪɡoʊ/ is a starch extracted from the spongy centre, or pith, of various tropical palm stems, especially Metroxylon sagu. It is a major staple food for the lowland peoples of New Guinea and the Moluccas, where it is called saksak, rabia and sagu. Sago is extracted from the sago cycad by cutting the pith from the stem, root and seeds of the cycads, grinding the pith to a coarse flour and then washing it carefully and repeatedly to leach out the natural toxins.
Tapioca Sago is generally Known as SAGO (SABUDANA in Hindi or JAVVARISHI in Tamil) in India. Sago is a produce, prepared from the milk of Tapioca Root. Its Botanical name is Manihot Esculenta Crantz Syn.Utilissima. This is a well known crop that is recognized by several names in the various regions where it is consumed.