Electronic Health Record (EHR) defined An electronic health record is a digital collection of patient health information compiled at one or more meetings in any care delivery setting.
Poor EHR system design and improper use can cause EHR-related errors that jeopardize the integrity of the information in the EHR, leading to errors that endanger patient safety or decrease the quality of care.
The electronic health record, or EHR, allows healthcare providers to record patient information in a variety of electronic formats instead of on paper. The transition to an electronic health record is challenging but brings many benefits to healthcare providers, including:
Oracle White Paper —HITECH’s Challenge to the Health Care Industry 20 This progress comes with a renewed emphasis on patient information privacy and security, put at greater risk by the very innovations in the use of electronic records that hold so much promise.
In a new CMS press release, we provided an update on the EHR Incentive Programs. Specifically, the release discussed the real impact of meaningful use requirements on the nation’s health care system.
While the adoption of electronic health record (EHR) systems promises a number of substantial benefits, including better care and decreased healthcare costs, serious unintended consequences from the implementation of these systems have emerged.
With the introduction of new legislation such as the HITECH Act and the Affordable Care Act, the healthcare industry has been bombarded with information about mandates and regulations. Keeping up with the changes and getting the facts straight can seem daunting.
Although EHR-related errors, and their actual and potential impact on the quality and usefulness of EHR documentation, quality of care, and patient safety, have been documented for years, much work still needs to be done to measure the occurrence of these errors, determine the causes, and implement solutions.
By Ken Congdon, editor in chief, Health IT Outcomes. More bad press for EHRs crossed the wire last week as results of a three-year study by researchers from the Stanford University School of Medicine indicates that EHRs do little to improve the quality of patient care.