Condition New. Taski TR 103 is specially formulated for carpet cleaning with the speray injection / extraction method and for spot / stain removal with the rinse method. Its excellent cleaning properties make it ideal for the effective removal if water soluble and greasy / oily soil. Recipient : Name of your friend : Taski TR 103 is specially formulated for carpet cleaning with the speray injection / extraction method and for spot / stain removal with the rinse method. Its excellent cleaning properties make it ideal for the effective removal if water soluble and greasy / oily soil. Warning: Last items in stock!
Sodium sulphate is a common example.  Solvents help dissolve the detergent ingredients in liquid laundry detergents. Some solvents that are miscible (can mix) with water are able to dissolve ingredients that water alone does not dissolve. This maintains a uniform composition throughout the liquid detergent. There are three main types of surfactants used in laundry detergents: anionic, non-ionic and cationic. Anionic surfactants have a negatively charged polar head group. The negative charge of this head group is usually balanced by the sodium cation (Na +), arising from the manufacturing procedure.
Carpet Detergent. TASKI TR 103 is a carpet detergent for deep cleaning of carpets & upholstery with injection extraction method & for removal of spot & strain. It's highly effective cleaning properties easily remove water soluble & greasy soil. 
Write a review. Taski TR 103 - Carpet Detergent (5 ltr Can). Taski TR 103 is specially formulated for carpet cleaning with the speray injection / extraction method and for spot / stain removal with the rinse method. Its excellent cleaning properties make it ideal for the effective removal if water soluble and greasy / oily soil. Recipient : Name of your friend : Taski TR 103 is specially formulated for carpet cleaning with the speray injection / extraction method and for spot / stain removal with the rinse method. Its excellent cleaning properties make it ideal for the effective removal if water soluble and greasy / oily soil. Warning: Last items in stock!
All organic detergent ingredients, such as the surfactants and enzymes, are biodegradable. This means that they can be broken down by bacteria in the environment. However, bacteria can also infiltrate detergent containers and cause the detergent to spoil during storage. There are three main types of surfactants used in laundry detergents: anionic, non-ionic and cationic. Anionic surfactants have a negatively charged polar head group. The negative charge of this head group is usually balanced by the sodium cation (Na +), arising from the manufacturing procedure.
When a detergent is added, surfactant molecules accumulate near the surface of the water because the non-polar (hydrophobic) tail of the surfactant wants to get away from the water. Since the surfactant disrupts the bonding of water molecules, the water distorts and more surfactant molecules fit near the surface. There are three main types of surfactants used in laundry detergents: anionic, non-ionic and cationic. Anionic surfactants have a negatively charged polar head group. The negative charge of this head group is usually balanced by the sodium cation (Na +), arising from the manufacturing procedure.
So, the polar (hydrophilic) part of the surfactant molecule is attracted to water, and the non-polar (hydrophobic) part is attracted to the oil. Surfactant molecules accumulate around the oil, and once there are enough molecules a spherical micelle forms. There are three main types of surfactants used in laundry detergents: anionic, non-ionic and cationic. Anionic surfactants have a negatively charged polar head group. The negative charge of this head group is usually balanced by the sodium cation (Na +), arising from the manufacturing procedure.
The pH scale in scientific terms, is an inverse logarithmic representation of hydrogen proton (H+) concentration. pH (potential of hydrogen) is a scale measuring the acidity or alkalinity of a water based solution. The pH of a solution measures the hydrogen ion concentration in that solution. For example, a pH of 4 is ten times more acidic than a pH of 5 and 100 times (10 times 10) more acidic than a pH of 6. The closer to pH 0 you go, the more strongly acidic a solution is. The same holds true for pH values above 7, each of which is ten times more alkaline than the next lower whole value.
TASKI TR 103 is a carpet detergent for deep cleaning of carpets and upholstery with the injection extraction method and for removal of spots and stains. Its highly effective cleaning properties easily remove water-soluble and greasy oil. In this method the carpet shampoo is converted into dry foam with the help of a foam generator which loosens the dirt particles on the carpet fibers and encases them. These can be then easily removed with the help of a vacuum cleaner. TASKI TR 101. TASKI TR 101 is the chemical shampoo used for dry shampooing. It is a pH-neutral, pleasantly scented, concentrated carpet shampoo for interim cleaning of all types of carpets and upholstery. The consistent dry foam cleans gently yet effectively