The Hulk found a potential weakness in the Red Hulk and exploited it. Once the Red Hulk was beaten, the Hulk left before he could find out the Red Hulk's true identity. However, Banner had been spending his time trying to track down the Red Hulk before he can do anymore damage. With the threat of the Intelligencia behind him Banner began to make amends with his makeshift family, but Betty wanted no part of it. The more Bruce pushed the more she spurned his advances and eventually transformed into her Red She-Hulk persona and vaulted away.
I'm always angry.. ―Bruce Banner. Doctor Bruce Banner is a genius scientist who, due to exposure to gamma radiation, transforms into the Hulk whenever his heart beats at intensified speeds. Banner is a gifted scientist, one of the greatest of his generation. His attempt to recreate the Super Soldier Serum went awry and he was exposed to intense levels of gamma radiation instead of vita-rays. This resulted in Banner transforming into a super powerful man-creature known as the Hulk.
Dr. David Bruce Banner: His Hemingway hallucinations, and his delusions about his wife and the doctor finally come together. Now you can't protect him, because your friend Tom doesn't exist anymore. Robert: He's just working through one of his stories. Dr. David Bruce Banner: No, no, he's on his way to commit murder. Dr. David Banner: When the metamorphosis happens, I don't have any control over it; I don't even know what it DOES! I could have killed you. Dr. David Banner : [ gives a start of horror ]. Dr. David Banner: Maybe that's why I was wounded.
When Dr. Banner realized he must once again keep his temper in check, he triggered a fail-safe within his subconscious. Any time he let his rage loose, the mentality of the savage green Hulk would soon take over, albeit in the form of Banner's human body. With the threat of the Intelligencia behind him Banner began to make amends with his makeshift family, but Betty wanted no part of it. The more Bruce pushed the more she spurned his advances and eventually transformed into her Red She-Hulk persona and vaulted away.
The Hulk is a character created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby. Reserved physicist Dr. Bruce Banner is accidentally exposed to the blast of a test detonation of a gamma bomb he invented, while trying to save Rick Jones. Subsequently, when Banner is angry, he involuntarily transforms into a huge, incredibly strong creature known as the Hulk.
For a short time, Banner successfully treated his condition with radiation and was able to maintain enough of his own personality when he became the Hulk to control himself in that form. Subsequently, he earned the government's favor by destroying the alien Metal Master and received a presidential pardon. With the threat of the Intelligencia behind him Banner began to make amends with his makeshift family, but Betty wanted no part of it. The more Bruce pushed the more she spurned his advances and eventually transformed into her Red She-Hulk persona and vaulted away.
Lee said that the Hulk's creation was inspired by a combination of Frankenstein and Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. Although the Hulk's coloration has varied throughout the character's publication history, the most usual color is green. The Hulk first appeared in The Incredible Hulk #1 (cover dated May 1962), written by writer-editor Stan Lee, penciled and co-plotted by Jack Kirby, and inked by Paul Reinman.
Advertisement. I have been trying to figure out what Bruce Banners education is in and I am getting conflicting results. Most sources (including Marvels website) indicate that he has a PhD in Nuclear Physics. However, one source (wikipedia) states that he has an MD and a PHD and therefore also a physcian. There is no reference for this source and I do not think it is correct. Honestly, Wikipedia is awful for many things. Since no one else seems to have a definitive answer I will make my own conclusion that the Marvel website is correct and Banner is a PhD in Nuclear Physics. Seems fitting to the character.