Viral encephalitis can occur either as a direct effect of an acute infection, or as one of the sequelae of a latent infection. The most common causes of acute viral encephalitis are rabies virus, HPV infection, poliovirus, and measles virus. Anti-N-methyl-D-aspartate encephalitis and Rasmussen encephalitis are examples of autoimmune encephalitis; the fact that these are immune mediate changes to the treatment path.
Causes of encephalitis. Encephalitis is usually the result of an infection. In many cases this is caused by a virus, but often no cause is found. In the UK, the most common viruses linked to encephalitis are: 1  the herpes simplex viruses, which cause cold sores and genital herpes. 2  the varicella zoster virus, which is responsible for chickenpox and shingles.
Infection with a virus is the main cause of encephalitis. Different types of viruses can cause the illness. For example, West Nile virus can cause encephalitis when a person is bitten by an infected mosquito. Another type is the herpes simplex virus, which is the same virus that causes cold sores and genital herpes. This inflammation can cause symptoms such as confusion, a fever, a bad headache, and a stiff neck. Sometimes it leads to symptoms like seizures and personality changes. It can also cause long-term problems, such as trouble with speech or memory. Encephalitis is uncommon, but it can be deadly.
Autoimmune encephalitis is a rare and serious condition in which the immune system attacks the brain, resulting in impaired brain function. The Autoimmune Encephalitis Alliance promotes collaboration to improve care, find a cure and create community so that no one faces autoimmune encephalitis alone.
Encephalitis is acute inflammation (swelling up) of the brain resulting either from a viral infection or when the body's own immune system mistakenly attacks brain tissue. The most common cause is a viral infection. 
Living with AE. If you or a family member has autoimmune encephalitis (AE), then you are not alone. Living with AE requires knowing the latest information on symptoms, diagnosis, treatment and recovery. The AE Alliance provides hard won wisdom, connections to a community living with AE and tools to navigate the medical system. The Autoimmune Encephalitis Alliance promotes collaboration to improve care, find a cure and create community so that no one faces autoimmune encephalitis alone.
Common causes of encephalitis include: 1  Herpes simplex virus. 2  There are two types of herpes simplex virus (HSV). 3  Either type can cause encephalitis. 4  HSV type 1 (HSV-1) is usually responsible for cold sores or fever blisters around your mouth, and HSV type 2 (HSV-2) commonly causes genital herpes. 1 There are two types of herpes simplex virus (HSV). 2  Either type can cause encephalitis. 3
Mosquito-borne viruses. Arboviruses, or arthropod-borne viruses, are transmitted by mosquitoes or other blood-sucking insects. Mosquito-borne viruses can cause infections that include West Nile, La Crosse, St. Louis, western equine and eastern equine encephalitis. 1 There are two types of herpes simplex virus (HSV). 2  Either type can cause encephalitis. 3  HSV type 1 (HSV-1) is usually responsible for cold sores or fever blisters around your mouth, and HSV type 2 (HSV-2) commonly causes genital herpes.
Encephalitis is inflammation of the brain. This inflammation can cause symptoms such as confusion, a fever, a bad headache, and a stiff neck. Sometimes it leads to symptoms like seizures and personality changes. It can also cause long-term problems, such as trouble with speech or memory. Encephalitis is uncommon, but it can be deadly.
Bacterial infections and noninfectious inflammatory conditions also may cause encephalitis. An infection may result in one of two conditions affecting the brain: 1  Primary encephalitis occurs when a virus or other infectious agent directly infects the brain. 2  The infection may be concentrated in one area or widespread. 1 There are two types of herpes simplex virus (HSV). 2  Either type can cause encephalitis. 3  HSV type 1 (HSV-1) is usually responsible for cold sores or fever blisters around your mouth, and HSV type 2 (HSV-2) commonly causes genital herpes.