is a neighborhood in the city of Los Angeles in the South L.A. region of Los Angeles County. It contains Imperial Courts, Jordan Downs and Nickerson Gardens. 1 12,500 (34.0%) of residents are foreign born, about average for the city of Los Angeles and about average for the county. 2  Mexico (79.8%) and El Salvador (9.2%) are the most common foreign places of birth.
Watts Center. Ice Rink Is Now Closed for the Season! Watts Center has two lighted outdoor ice rinks and is located on more than three acres of land at Watts Park, which includes three tennis courts, a disc golf course, and soccer fields. In the winter months, the sledding hill at Watts Park has also been a longtime favorite of Glencoe residents of all ages. 
The towers are located at 1765 East 107th Street, Los Angeles, CA. Latitude/Longitude: 33.9406 / -118.2419. Facilities/Activities The City of Los Angeles operates Watts Towers of Simon Rodia SHP -- please visit its website for additional information. The Watts Towers are one of only nine works of folk art listed on the National Register of Historic Places. The site is one of only four US National Historic Landmarks in the city of Los Angeles. The site is now a unit of California State Parks and managed by the Los Angeles City Cultural Affairs Department.
They are named after a north-south street in Watts, Grape Street, and 103rd is the heart of their neighborhood. They occupy the Jordan Downs Public Housing and most residents attend Jordan High School which is located adjacent to the public housing. Grape Street Watts clicks. 
The Watts area of Los Angeles is located in South LA, and is fighting to change the infamous reputation the area has for gang violence, and riots. Named after Charles H. Watts, the area has always been a haven of affordable housing that attracts mostly the working class. Each of the three major gangs in Watts was born out of a separate housing project. Nickerson Gardens gave birth to the Bounty Hunter Watts Blood gang. The Jordan Downs project gave birth to the East Side Grape Street Watts Baby Loc Crips. The Imperial Courts giving birth to the P Jay Crips.
Watts (GNIS FID: 1661656) is a populated place LOCATED WITHIN the City of Los Angeles. In turn, the City of Los Angeles is located within Los Angeles County. Watts is located at latitude 33.941 and longitude -118.243. The elevation of Watts is 108 feet above mean sea level. Since Watts is located within the City of Los Angeles, all of the census and demographic data for residents of Watts are included as part of the information reported for City of Los Angeles in the Data tab above. In similar fashion, ALL OF THE NAVIGATION TABS ABOVE ARE FOR THE City of Los Angeles Community Profile.
As drawn by the Mapping L.A. project of the Los Angeles Times, Watts is flanked on the north by Florence-Firestone, on the east by South Gate, on the southeast by Lynwood, on the south by Willowbrook and on the north and west by Green Meadows. In 1914 the library moved into a newly built Carnegie library. Los Angeles annexed Watts in 1926, so the library became the Watts Branch of the Los Angeles library system. In 1957 voters approved a library branch bond, and a 3,600 square feet (330 m 2) Watts Branch opened in 1960.
The Los Angeles County Department of Health Services operates the South Health Center in Watts. The California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation operates the L.A. Watts Juvenile Parole Center. The United States Postal Service Augustus F. Hawkins Post Office is located at 10301 Compton Avenue. In 1914 the library moved into a newly built Carnegie library. Los Angeles annexed Watts in 1926, so the library became the Watts Branch of the Los Angeles library system. In 1957 voters approved a library branch bond, and a 3,600 square feet (330 m 2) Watts Branch opened in 1960.
Watts is a 2.12-square-mile neighborhood in Los Angeles, California, within the South Los Angeles area. It is a high-density, youthful neighborhood with a large household size and with the highest percentage of families headed by single parents in the city. In 1914 the library moved into a newly built Carnegie library. Los Angeles annexed Watts in 1926, so the library became the Watts Branch of the Los Angeles library system. In 1957 voters approved a library branch bond, and a 3,600 square feet (330 m 2) Watts Branch opened in 1960.