Show All Items. My Samsung HE Clothes dryer stopped drying one day and the clothes were ice cold and wet after several minutes into the cycle. So I knew immediately the heating coil was more than likely open circuit (shot). I called the service hotline and they estimated the standard fee of $300 USD to repair. 
Gas dryers cost about $50 to $150 more than electric models, but cost less to power. In terms of repairs, gas dryers don’t include heating elements like electric dryers, but they do have ignition coils that will require replacement throughout the dryer’s lifetime. Appliance repair can be a large investment, especially if it’s your major appliances that break down or require frequent maintenance. Homeowners report that the average cost for appliance repair is $171 and most spend between &$108 and $238.
Replacement Parts. Prices for heating elements for electric dryers vary with make and model, but they typically range from $35 to $100. Gas ignition coils are similarly priced, and you shouldn't have to pay more than $100 for one. The heating element on an electric dryer is a resistive coil similar to the element on an electric room heater, and replacing it is an uncomplicated home repair task. Gas dryers don't have heating elements, but they have ignition coils that can fail and require replacement, and that job is similarly uncomplicated
Troubleshoot your own Samsung Electric Dryer that has some of the following issues: Not Heating. Only at http://www.appliancevideo.com. To complete the repair we had to use a DC47-00019A Heater-Dry. DIY diagnostic and repair videos from your friends at ApplianceVideo.com. 
Side Vent Kit For Samsung Dryers. Depending on your model, this handy kit enables you to vent your Samsung Gas Dryer on the bottom, left, or back side (not on the right), or your Electric Dryer from the left, right sides, or the bottom. (UNIVERSAL FOR ALL SAMSUNG MODELS). DC97-14486A
Your dryer saves you time and keeps you from having to hang clothes out on a line. Like your washer, it’s important to keep it in good working order. The average cost to repair a dryer generally runs between $100 and $400, depending on the type of repair. A number of things can go wrong with your dryer, so it’s important to stay on top of service, maintenance and repair. Appliance repair can be a large investment, especially if it’s your major appliances that break down or require frequent maintenance. Homeowners report that the average cost for appliance repair is $171 and most spend between &$108 and $238.
$324.53. Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Repair a Dryer! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Dryer Repair project. For a basic 1 repair project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Repair a Dryer ranges between $261.88 - $324.53 per repair. To estimate costs for your project: 1.
If you hire a repair technician, figure in the cost of the service call, which usually includes a charge for diagnosis. A typical diagnostic charge is between $30 to $80, depending on your dryer model. The heating element on an electric dryer is a resistive coil similar to the element on an electric room heater, and replacing it is an uncomplicated home repair task. Gas dryers don't have heating elements, but they have ignition coils that can fail and require replacement, and that job is similarly uncomplicated
A malfunctioning thermostat may prevent the dryer from heating and needs replacing. Keep Samsung dryers running smoothly and efficiently with the large inventory of reliable repair and replacement parts at Sears PartsDirect. Choose your Samsung dryer model from the list above, click the chat button or call 1-800-252-1698 to locate compatible parts. Script section containing code for 24x7 chat solution.