Stage 1: Egg. A female ladybug lays a cluster of tiny yellow eggs. Ladybugs usually lay eggs on leaves where there will be plenty of food for the babies when they hatch. After about one week, the eggs will hatch and small odd-looking creatures appear! (Here is a picture of some ladybug eggs on the back of a leaf.). The pupa does not eat or move because it stored up plenty of food in its body while it was a larva. After about five days, the pupa has changed in incredible ways and is ready to 'hatch' again as an adult ladybug! (This is a ladybug in the pupa stage.).
The Pupae. Ladybug pupae are -- you guessed it -- orange and black. Larvae don't enter the pupal stage until they reach a certain weight, generally about 15 milligrams. A larva going through its final molt attaches itself to a leaf surface to pupate. Depending on the temperature, it takes from three days to two weeks for the adult ladybug to emerge from the pupa. 
The life cycle of the ladybug is between four to six weeks. In the spring the adults lay up to three hundred eggs in an aphid colony. The eggs hatch in two to five days. The newly hatched larvae feed on aphids for up to three weeks, and then they enter the pupa stage. The adult ladybug emerges about a week later. However, they usually do not have their spots for their first 24 hours of adulthood. There may be as many as six generations of ladybugs hatched in a year. 
It will stay attached to that leaf while it changes into an adult. The pupa does not eat or move because it stored up plenty of food in its body while it was a larva. After about five days, the pupa has changed in incredible ways and is ready to 'hatch' again as an adult ladybug! (This is a ladybug in the pupa stage.).
How long does it take for a turkey egg to hatch? Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful.
The odd-looking creatures that hatch out of the eggs are called larva (larvae if there are more than one). They have long bodies with six legs. They are mostly black with colored spots and they look sort of like little alligators. The ladybug will live as a larva for about two to four weeks of its life. The pupa does not eat or move because it stored up plenty of food in its body while it was a larva. After about five days, the pupa has changed in incredible ways and is ready to 'hatch' again as an adult ladybug! (This is a ladybug in the pupa stage.).
Best Answer: Depending on the species, and the temperatures, the ladybug larva can hatch out of the egg in 4-10 days. When the larva hatch out, they are so incredibly small, you will not want to move them or touch them. Depending on the species again, the first food of the larva is to eat the egg case that they just hatched out from. Source(s): http://www.ladybuglady.com/LadybugsFAQ.h...
Share to: It takes 28 days for duck eggs to hatch.....and it takes 21 days for baby chicks to hatch and you can only put 12 eggs under neath a chicken.. Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful.
A Ladybug's Life Cycle. The time it takes for a ladybug egg to hatch and become an adult takes about 3 to 4 weeks depending on the weather conditions. The ladybug life cycle sure does happen fast! Ladybug eggs are very small, oval in shape and are a pale yellow color. Mother ladybugs lay their eggs usually on the undersides of leaves to keep them protected from hungry predators.
A. Wow! This is a very exciting time at your house!!!! Depending on the species, and the temperatures, the ladybug larva can hatch out of the egg in 4-10 days. When the larva hatch out, they are so incredibly small, you will not want to move them or touch them. 