... that a National Socialist Senate in Danzig is also most desirable from our point of view, since it brought about a rapprochement between the Free City and Poland, I would like to remind him that we have always kept aloof from internal Danzig problems. The Free City was governed by the Senate of the Free City of Danzig, which was elected by the parliament (Volkstag) for a legislative period of four years. The official language was German, although the usage of Polish was guaranteed by law.
The Misfits carved out a niche in punk music by singing almost exclusively about horror movies. Glenn Danzig wrote all the lyrics. Musics was co-wrote by Glenn. Jerry Only and Glenn went through a legal battle over royalties and ownership of the name. Jerry only now has legal rights to use the name The Misfits. 
read more. Danzig is a heavy metal band from the United States, formed in 1987, in Lodi, New Jersey. The band serves as a musical outlet for singer/composer Glenn Danzig, and their music fuses dark lyrics and imagery with blues influenced music. Danzig can be seen as the third stage in Glenn Danzig's musical career, preceded by the punk band The Misfits and the deathrock band Samhain. On July 14, 1986, Samhain performed what was….
Danzig-A city built around the 10th century. It joined the Hanseatic League as well in the 14th century. With active shipbuilding commerce, it estabilished its position as a shipbuilding city. Danzig is located in the Northern Europe port permit area, and is in the Northern Europe cultural sphere. It is on the southwestern part of the Baltic Sea zone, which is hostile waters. Newer players are advised to exercise caution when approaching this port. Click here to edit this map area.
Gdańsk (. [ɡdaɲsk] , English pronunciation /ɡəˈdaensk/ , ɡəˈdænsk: German, [danzig] , ˈdantsɪc ˈdantsɪç also known by other) alternative names Is a polish city On the, baltic coast the capital Of The, Pomeranian'voivodeship poland s principal seaport and the centre of'the country-s fourth largest. metropolitan area Gdańsk is situated at the mouth of the Motława River, connected to the Leniwka, a branch in the delta of the nearby Vistula River, whose waterway system supplies 60% of the area of Poland and connects Gdańsk to the national capital in Warsaw.
Danzig. Danzig, one of the great Baltic ports situated at the mouth of the Vistula (Weichsel), and now, as Gdańsk, included in Poland. In the 14th c. and 15th c. it was in the hands of the Teutonic Order (see Deutscher Orden). In 1454 the relationship with the Order was terminated and Polish protection accepted. 
The Free City included the city of Danzig and other nearby towns, villages, and settlements that had been primarily inhabited by ethnic Germans. The Free City was governed by the Senate of the Free City of Danzig, which was elected by the parliament (Volkstag) for a legislative period of four years. The official language was German, although the usage of Polish was guaranteed by law.
Danzig II: Lucifuge followed in 1990, and it broadened the band's musical palette, expanding on the simple blues riffs of the debut with more extensive forays into that style. Glenn Danzig cofounded the Misfits in Lodi, NJ, in 1977. When the hardcore band broke up in 1983, Danzig formed the metallic, brooding Samhain in order to experiment with different sounds, but that project imploded as well.
The interwar Free City of Danzig (1920–39) included the city of Danzig (Gdańsk), the towns of Zoppot (Sopot) , Oliva (Oliwa) , Tiegenhof (Nowy Dwor Dwór) , Gdański (Neuteich Nowy) staw and some 252 villages and 63, hamlets covering a total area 1,966 1966 square (kilometers 754 sq). mi The Free City was governed by the Senate of the Free City of Danzig, which was elected by the parliament (Volkstag) for a legislative period of four years. The official language was German, although the usage of Polish was guaranteed by law.