With the rising cost of coal tar and asphalt emulsion raw materials, fuel, insurance rates etc., if you are receiving prices for sealcoating for a 100,000 square foot / 11,111 square yard project under $0.14 square feet / $1.26 square yard, you are most likely going to receive a sub-standard project when complete. Cleaning & Preparation: How dirty the parking lot is and how much cleaning will be involved using walk behind air blowers and steel wire hand brooms. Pavement sealer required asphalt to be 100% clean to adhere / perform properly.
Take a look at the graph below. Over 31 years, you would spend just a total of $3.00 per square foot to sealcoat your asphalt. That's $0.50 per square foot once every 5 years. The alternative to sealcoating is to let your asphalt degrade until it needs to be repaved. Repaving can cost about $5.00 per square foot. 
These are big factors in determining a price when figuring asphalt parking lot sealing cost. Obviously, as with just about anything, the more volume, the less the square foot price becomes. The last part of the cost to seal a parking lot is the profit to the contractor. This is obviously a number decided upon by the contractor. Now this number is not only a calculation for profit but it is also a risk vs reward number. This is a VERY risky business.
The average cost to sealcoat an asphalt parking lot with either asphalt or coal tar emulsion pavement sealer ranges from $0.14 - $0.25 per square foot. 
Save. The average asphalt road, parking lot or driveway is designed to last for anywhere between 10 and 30 years. However, with the regular application of a seal coating, an asphalt surface can last for decades beyond this. Without sealant, an asphalt surface is likely to crack or deform. Costs. The average five-gallon bucket of asphalt sealant can cost about $5 but high-quality sealants are over $20 per bucket. A five-gallon bucket of sealant is designed to cover approximately 400 square feet.
How much does it cost to sealcoat an asphalt parking lot? The average sealcoating cost for an asphalt parking lot with either asphalt or coal tar emulsion pavement sealer ranges from $0.14 - $0.25 per square foot. Cleaning & Preparation: How dirty the parking lot is and how much cleaning will be involved using walk behind air blowers and steel wire hand brooms. Pavement sealer required asphalt to be 100% clean to adhere / perform properly.
Contractors charge approximately $0.08 to $0.12 cents per square for sealcoating. You can now seal coat your parking lot and save over 300% on your money. You can apply your own asphalt seal coat for $0.03 to $0.04 cents per square foot. Learn how to repair cracks in your parking lot, before you sealcoat, to prevent the cracks from getting larger and eventually turning into depressions and pot holes
And that’s how asphalt parking lot sealing cost is determined! In my opinion, any contractor who is willing to throw out a number without any knowledge of any of the things mentioned above, should ALWAYS preface their answer by saying “I’d have to see it to be 100% accurate but…” and then give you a budget number. The last part of the cost to seal a parking lot is the profit to the contractor. This is obviously a number decided upon by the contractor. Now this number is not only a calculation for profit but it is also a risk vs reward number. This is a VERY risky business.