If you get a kitten from a shelter they cannot let you have it before 8 weeks old. The mother teaches the kittens about eating grooming etc, also the kitten is being weaned from the mom at this time. It is crucial for the kittens to be with there mom so that they can learn to be somewhat independent. Best Answer: 7-8 weeks is a good age. If you adopt a kitten too early, it won't be weaned sufficiently, and might develop bad habits such as kneading and nursing on blankets and such. A kitten needs to spend the first two months with it's mom, so it can learn appropriate cat behavior
The age that kittens are available will depend on the source. As a kitten has a lot of life skills, socialization and general good manners to learn from it mother and litter mates, caring registered breeders will not normally let their kittens go off to new homes before they are at least 12 weeks old. Some breeders will not let even them until they are 16 weeks old.
The age your kitten will be adopted out will vary from shelter to shelter, breeder to breeder and even breed to breed. Shelters will generally adopt out kittens from the age of 10+ weeks, once they have had their vaccinations and are old enough, weigh enough to have been dexexed. Many breeders will hold on to kittens until they are 12 weeks of age, some will be kept until 16 weeks, especially the oriental type breeds such as Siamese who need a little more time with their mum.
6 weeks is too young to be adopted. 8 weeks is the absolute minimum. 12 weeks is ideal. Kittens learn a lot of social skills at that age from their mother and litter-mates such as not to bite, scratch, and play too rough. Most shelters will not let a kitten be adopted till at least 8 weeks old. Good, reputable breeders will not sell a kitten younger than 12 weeks. Do NOT adopt these kittens out till they are at least 8 weeks old. Later would be even better. Also do NOT give these kittens away. Ask for a small adoption fee, even $10. Free cats and kittens can meet horrific ends in research labs and as dog-fighting bait.
I was wondering what the youngest week-age a kitten can be adopted out from its mother. I've heard anywhere from 6-8 weeks, to 10-12 weeks. It's been a LONG time since we had any new-born kittens in the family (1993). I dont know how old Chassis was when we adopted her from the vet. 
While this may be true, adopting a kitten before he's old enough to leave his mother and litter mates could result in health issues and behavior problems. Most breeders and legitimate pet stores will only offer kittens for sale as young at 8 weeks, with some waiting until 12 weeks of age. This assures that the kitten is ready to be separated from his family and can tend to all of his own needs without assistance. At about 8 weeks of age, your kitten's mother will start to get a bit antsy and will start weaning her litter. She'll nurse less and less and encourage her kids to become more self-sufficient as she goes about her business. Around this time, you will be free to adopt him and bring him home to join your family