A person with a degree in Exercise Science can become a qualified fitness trainer or athletics and/or conditioning coach or a rehabilitation specialist. The same degree can also be beneficial for people who wish to become wellness and health advocates.
This program is good for people who wish to study the health effects of exercise on the body. Earning a degree in exercise science can lead to careers related to wellness promotion, athletics supervision, exercise therapy, and personal training among many others.
The goal of exercise science is facilitating an understanding of the links between fitness, exercise, diet and health. In this article, we'll explore this topic. Read on to discover more information about the jobs that an exercise scientist might hold and the possible curriculum of a degree program in exercise science.
Exercise Science is a multifaceted field of study in which movement or physical activity is the intellectual focus. This includes exercise of improvement of health and physical fitness and activities of daily living, work, sport, and play.
Exercise Science encompasses a wide variety of disciplines including, but not limited to: Biomechanics, Sports Nutrition, Sport Psychology, Motor Control/Development, and Exercise Physiology. The study of these disciplines is integrated into the academic preparation of Exercise Science professionals.
A bachelor's degree in exercise science prepares graduates to work in a broad range of careers related to health and fitness promotion. In a Bachelor of Science in Exercise Science program, course topics include kinesiology, nutrition, sports injury rehabilitation and fitness concepts.
If so, maybe you should go for gold and study the field of exercise science. You’ll learn the science behind everything from jogging to low-carb diets. Exercise science majors study the science of the human movement. They also learn how to help people live healthier lives through exercise, rehabilitation, and nutrition.
Exercise Science is a bachelor’s degree program in college that is focused on health and exercise.
Exercise science majors study the science of the human movement. They also learn how to help people live healthier lives through exercise, rehabilitation, and nutrition.