1 Biodiesel is a clean burning renewable fuel made using natural vegetable oils and fats. 2  Biodiesel is made through a chemical process which converts oils and fats of natural origin into fatty acid methyl esters (FAME).
The process used to convert these oils to biodiesel is called transesterification. This process is described in more detail below. The largest possible source of suitable oil comes from oil crops such as soybean, rapeseed, corn, and sunflower.
Biodiesel is made through a chemical process called transesterification whereby the glycerin is separated from the fat or vegetable oil. The process leaves behind two products -- methyl esters (the chemical name for biodiesel) and glycerin (a valuable byproduct usually sold to be used in soaps and other products).
Biodiesel, a renewable fuel, is produced from vegetable oils and animal fats by a process called transesterification. It breaks down the molecules of vegetable oils into constituent molecules forming biodiesel as the main product and glycerin as the byproduct.
The chemical name for biodiesel is fatty acid alkyl esters. There are a few methods for production of biodiesel, but the most commonly used method for production of biodiesel is known as transesterification. It is the chemical conversion process of vegetable oil or animal fats to biodiesel.
Transesterification is a chemical reaction used for the conversion of vegetable oil to biodiesel. In this process vegetable oil is chemically reacted with an alcohol like methanol or ethanol in presence of a catalyst like lye.
Biodiesel is an alternative fuel similar to conventional or fossil diesel. Biodiesel can be produced from straight vegetable oil, animal oil/fats, tallow and waste cooking oil. The process used to convert these oils to Biodiesel is called transesterification. This process is described in more detail below. The largest possible source of suitable oil comes from oil crops such as rapeseed, palm or soybean. In the UK rapeseed represents the greatest potential for biodiesel production.
Biodiesel is created by a process called transesterification. This process extracts glycerin from fats and oils. Once transesterification occurs, the two remaining products are methyl esters (the chemical name for biodiesel) and glycerin.