If you are fishing the walleye after spawning, you need to know when they spawn and then it takes about four to eight days before they are ready to really feed. The best time to get them is after spawning when they will strike anything that moves. Dan. Every location is going to be different. If the fish are spawning in Wisconsin’s Lake Winnebago, the first week of April does mean that in Minnesota that walleye is spawning. The time of the year is spring.
Water TemperatureIn the spring, ignoring water temperature can be a costly mistake. Since walleyes spawn in the same places every year at predictable temperature levels, it is a simple matter to determine where the fish are in their spawning cycle. Begin at the spawning area as walleyes spawn in the same area year after year. Proceed from the spawning area and locate the closest 30-foot level of water on the flattest bottom possible. Whether this depth is found in the backs of bays or the bottom of the lake, 30 feet is the key.
The best method to catch spring walleyes also depends on the stage of the spawn period you are fishing. If the fish are between the spawn and the resting period I will load up my reels with 4lb Berkley Vanish line and use a 1/16 oz. Jig tipped with a shiner or a Fathead Chub. Up here in the north, the walleyes can spawn any time from the end of April to the middle of May. This timetable is affected by how early we have warm weather in the spring. My experience has shown me that walleyes do not spawn at the same time.
Walleyes spawn in spring, but spring may arrive in February in Mississippi, March in Kentucky, April in the Midwest, and June in the Far North. And you can’t bet on those dates. Biologists have found walleyes laying eggs in Red Lake, Minnesota, and Escanaba Lake, Wisconsin, as early as April 5 and as late as May 7. By roaming, walleyes become familiar with the best spawning areas. Some waters, such as the Rainy River at the south end of Lake of the Woods, the Red River at the bottom of Lake Winnipeg, the Thames River in Lake St. Clair and Lake Erie’s western basin are major spawning draws.
Fishing under these conditions can be easy and rewarding. Walleyes that spawn in natural lakes are often the last fish of the season to deposit their eggs. It usually takes a week or two longer for the sun to warm these large inland lakes to the magical 40 to 45 degree spawning temperature that walleyes prefer. Begin at the spawning area as walleyes spawn in the same area year after year. Proceed from the spawning area and locate the closest 30-foot level of water on the flattest bottom possible. Whether this depth is found in the backs of bays or the bottom of the lake, 30 feet is the key.
When Walleye Spawn. ­As winter ends and the sun melts­ the ice that's accumulated on the lakes and streams, walleye leave the deep water -- where they've spent the fall and winter -- to begin their migratory journey. 
When walleye migrations begin for spawning, we find as much variation and dissimilarity in their movement patterns as during the rest of the year, although the norm probably is different than most anglers suspect. By roaming, walleyes become familiar with the best spawning areas. Some waters, such as the Rainy River at the south end of Lake of the Woods, the Red River at the bottom of Lake Winnipeg, the Thames River in Lake St. Clair and Lake Erie’s western basin are major spawning draws.
The spawning of the Walleye is typically when the water begins to warm up in the spring. Depending on your location, you’re looking for water temperatures of approximately 40-45 degrees and that usually coincides with the month of April and early May. 
Walleyes spawn in the spring when the time is right. Every location is going to be different. If the fish are spawning in Wisconsin’s Lake Winnebago, the first week of April does mean that in Minnesota that walleye is spawning. The time of the year is spring.