Diatoms are microscopic algae living in both fresh and salt water. They are unicellular organisms with heavily silica impregnated cell walls. Living diatoms are amongst the most abundant forms of plankton and represent an essential part of the food chain in the ocean. 
Diatoms, Desmids and Other Algae. Strictly speaking, these are protists, rather than plants, but many people still think of them as plants: after all they do possess chlorophyll for photosynthesis. Of course many have the disconcerting habit of moving around, often quite rapidly, and not very plant-like... Diatom Circle slide. Such slides were especially popular in the 19th century as exhibition pieces to show of both the beauty of the diatoms and also the prowess of the slide maker. It has been said that the ideal tool for arranging diatoms is a tiger's whisker.
Diatoms are algae with distinctive, transparent cell walls made of silicon dioxide hydrated with a small amount of water (Si02 + H20). Silica is the main component of glass and hydrated silica is very like the mineral opal, making these algae, often called algae in glass houses more like algae in opal houses. The cell wall is called a frustule and consists of two halves called valves. Since silica is impervious, diatoms have evolved elaborate patterns of perforations in their valves to allow nutrient and waste exchange with the environment.
DESMIDS AND DIATOMS. 507 solely to fresh water, where their delicate green cells, forming mucous tufts or filhs onl the surface of boggy pools, or coating the stenms or fronds of aquatic plants, often multiply in sufficient numbers to impart a pale green tint to the water. 510 DESMIDS AND DIATOMS. The close analogy existing between the structure and mode of growth of the Desmidiaceat and that of other un-doubted unicellular Alg-we became evident-with the rapid improvements in the instruments of observation.
Diatoms are unusual in that as single celled algae they possess cell wals impregnated with silica-effectively the cell walls are made of glass. The cells are made of two halves, frustules held together by a kind of belt, called a girdle. Diatom Circle slide. Such slides were especially popular in the 19th century as exhibition pieces to show of both the beauty of the diatoms and also the prowess of the slide maker. It has been said that the ideal tool for arranging diatoms is a tiger's whisker.
Motile. Desmids. Desmids are a distinctive group within the green algae (Chlorophycaea) and have always been amongst the favourite subjects of microscopists. Each cell consists of two symmetrical cellulose-walled halves usually with a pronounced constriction in between -- two semi-cells joined by an isthmu
Desmids (or Desmidiaceae) are single-celled green algae which can only be found in fresh water. Desmids have spectacular symmetrical shapes. Because they are so small, their beauty is hidden for most of us. Only with the aid of a microscope can their splendor be revealed. Desmids can be recognised by their symmetry. 
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Diatoms are stramenophila algae, their cell wall is composed of silica and their chloroplasts are yellowish-brown. Desmids are green algae, their cell wall is composed of cellulose and pectins (like plants), and their chloroplasts are green. Diatoms are stramenophila algae, their cell wall is composed of silica and their chloroplasts are yellowish-brown