Cavernous Malformation (Cavernoma). A cavernous malformation, also known as a cavernous angioma or cavernoma, is an abnormal collection of blood vessels in the brain. It consists of multiple, small dilated sacs which resemble blood vessels but do not have a direct connection with other blood vessels. With bleeding, neurological symptoms related to the location of the cavernoma can occur. These vary considerably depending on what part of the brain the malformation is in. A cavernoma in the brain stem can be much more dangerous than a small peripheral lesion in less important parts of
Bleeding or leakage of blood produces from a cavernoma can be silent or symptomatic. With bleeding, neurological symptoms related to the location of the cavernoma can occur. These vary considerably depending on what part of the brain the malformation is in. A cavernoma in the brain stem can be much more dangerous than a small peripheral lesion in less important parts of the brain.
Experts at the Cerebrovascular Center at Mount Sinai specialize in cavernomas (also called cavernous angiomas or cavernous malformations). Cavernomas are abnormal clusters of vessels with small bubbles (or caverns) filled with blood that make them look like a berry. 
(May 2014). Cavernous hemangioma, also called cavernous angioma, or cavernoma (often when referring to presence in the brain), is a type of blood vessel malformation or hemangioma, where a collection of dilated blood vessels form a tumor. Because of this malformation, blood flow through the cavities, or caverns, is slow. 
A cavernoma is also called a cavernous angioma or hemangioma. The names refer to a condition where people have a clustered group of blood cells, usually in the brain or brainstem, which are widened or dilated and which can get larger over time. Gamma knife radiosurgery may be used to treat a cavernoma if the area of the brain cannot be reached through surgery. If a cavernoma is located in an area of the brain that's easy to access, it can be removed with surgery.
A cavernous malformation (abbreviated as CM or also called cavernomas) is an abnormal cluster of capillaries and venules that periodically bleed and give rise to a popcorn-like lesion in the brain or spinal cord with very thin walls that contains blood of different ages. 
You are here: Home About Cavernoma. A cavernoma looks like a raspberry and are also known as cavernous angioma, cavernous haemangioma or cerebral cavernous malformation (CCM). A cavernoma is made up of abnormal blood vessels. Cavernomas can measure from a few millimetres to several centimetres. A cavernoma can get bigger, but this growth is not cancerous, and it does not spread to other parts of the body. 
Cavernomas are clusters of abnormal blood vessels mainly found in the brain and spinal cord. They are sometimes known as cavernous angiomas, cavernous hemangiomas or cerebral cavernous malformations. A typical cavernoma looks a bit like a blackberry. If your cavernoma has bled previously, your risk of having another haemorrhage is somewhere between 4% and 25% each year, although this risk decreases progressively over time if you don't experience any further bleeds, and eventually returns to the same level as that of people who have not had any bleeding before.
Cavernomas that haven't or won't cause symptoms are estimated to occur in about 1 in every 600 people in the UK. Every year, roughly 1 person in every 400,000 in the UK is diagnosed with a cavernoma that has caused symptoms. On average, most people who will develop symptoms will do so by the time they reach their 30s. If your cavernoma has bled previously, your risk of having another haemorrhage is somewhere between 4% and 25% each year, although this risk decreases progressively over time if you don't experience any further bleeds, and eventually returns to the same level as that of people who have not had any bleeding before.