Israel is a country located in the Middle East on the eastern coast of the Mediterranean Sea. It is northeast of Egypt, south of Lebanon and Syria, and west of Jordan. On most maps, Israel is below Lebanon, to the left of Jordan, and above and to the right of Egypt. Israel is entirely on the continent of Asia. Answer 1 Israel is located entirely in Asia. Egypt is located mostly in Africa, but partially in Asia. Specifically, the Sinai Peninsula is the Asian part of Egypt. Answer … 2 Egypt straddles both Africa and Asia while Israel is fully in Asia.
Founded in 1909, the city of Tel Aviv is located on the Mediterranean coast, in the Western part of central Israel. This is the heart of the Gush Dan area. The distance between Jerusalem and Tel Aviv is 69 km (42 miles), when driving between the cities. Jerusalem is south-west to Tel Aviv. 
The State of Israel, located in Western Asia is a developed Middle East country. This member country of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) is bordered by Jordan to the east, Syria to the northeast, Palestine territories to the east and south west, and Lebanon to the north. Egypt is situated south of Israel and Mediterranean sea borders its south-eastern coast. Israel that covers a total area 20,770 sq. km, is the 154th largest country of the world and 43rd largest economy of the world as per GDP 2012.
Jordan Jordan is located in the Middle East. It is bound by Syria to the north, Iraq to the northeast, Saudi Arabia to the east and south as well as Israel to the west.... Kuwait Kuwait is located in the northeastern corner of the Arabian Peninsula and at the head of the Persian Gulf. Iraq. Iraq is located in the Middle East. It is bound by Iran to the east, Turkey to the north, Syria to the northwest, Jordan to the west, Saudi Arabia to the southwest and south as well as Kuwait and the Persian Gulf to the southeast.... Israel Israel is located in the Middle East along the eastern end of the Mediterranean Sea. It is bound by the Mediterranean Sea to the west, Lebanon to the north, Syria to the northeast, Jordan to the east and Egypt to the southwest...
Israel is in the western part of the Middle East, sometimes called the Southern Levant. Israel borders clockwise from North: Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, the Gulf of Aqaba, Egypt … , and the Mediterranean Sea. Answer 1 Israel is located entirely in Asia. Egypt is located mostly in Africa, but partially in Asia. Specifically, the Sinai Peninsula is the Asian part of Egypt. Answer … 2 Egypt straddles both Africa and Asia while Israel is fully in Asia.
The given Israel location map depicts the location of Israel on the world map; Israel is located eastern coast of Mediterranean Sea. Israel is part of Middle East. It shares international boundary with Lebanon in the north, Syria in the northeast, Jordan in the east, and Egypt in the southwest. Besides, it also shares boundaries with West Bank in the east and Gaza Strip in the southwest
Geography. Israel is located in Western Asia, south-east of the Mediterranean Sea. Its borders are Lebanon to the north, Jordan to the east, Syria to the northeast, the Palestine territories of Gaza Strip and West Bank to the southwest and east, and Egypt and the Aqaba Gulf to the south. Israel, also called State of Israel, is situated in Middle East along Mediterranean Sea. It is bordered by Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, West Bank, Egypt etc.
Israel is a country with a small population which is located in the continent/region of Asia. Countries near Israel include Palestine, Jordan, Lebanon and Cyprus. 