Any substance that reduces the effect of histamine or blocks histamine receptors, usually the histamine 1 (H1) receptor. It is used in the treatment of allergic conjunctivitis and also in the temporary relief of minor allergic symptoms of the eye. Common agents include antazoline sulfate, azelastine hydrochloride, cetirizine, chlorphenamine, emedastine, epinastine hydrochloride, ketotifen, levocabastine, loratadine and olopatadine. It also should not be used in newborns or premature infants. adverse effects Life-threatening effects include hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, agranulocytosis, pancytopenia, and dysrhythmias (rare).
Cetirizine hydrochloride is the generic name for a prescription and over-the-counter antihistamine medication. Doctors recommend cetirizine hydrochloride for the relief of symptoms associated with allergies. Cetirizine hydrochloride is available in its regular form and also in a combination therapy that includes pseudoephedrine, which is used to relieve nasal congestion in addition to allergy symptoms.
2 Comments. Cetirizine belongs to the group of medicines known as long lasting antihistamines and treat various skin conditions. It is used mainly in the treatment of rhinitis the medical term describing irritation and inflammation of some internal areas of the nose (more commonly known as a runny nose). 
MHRA-UKPAR – Cetirizine Hydrochloride 10 mg Film-Coated Tablets PL 36390/0043 - 8 - NON-CLINICAL ASSESSMENT This is a simple, abridged, ‘informed consent’ application made under Article 10c of EC Directive 2001/83 (as amended). EFFICACY This application is considered identical to the previously granted licence for Cetirizine Hydrochloride 10 mg Film-Coated Tablets, PL 08137/0053, authorised to Neolab Ltd on 17 June 2002 in the UK.
Cetirizine's primary indication is for hay fever and other allergies. Because the symptoms of itching and redness in these conditions are caused by histamine acting on the H1 receptor, blocking those receptors temporarily relieves those symptoms. Cetirizine is an effective agent in treating the symptoms of Kimura's disease, which mostly occurs in young Asian men, affecting the lymph nodes and soft tissue of the head and neck in the form of tumor-like lesions.
cetirizine. a nonsedating antihistamine administered orally in the form of the hydrochloride salt for treatment of allergic rhinitis and chronic hives, and as a treatment adjunct for asthma. It also should not be used in newborns or premature infants. adverse effects Life-threatening effects include hemolytic anemia, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, agranulocytosis, pancytopenia, and dysrhythmias (rare).
Formerly prescription-only in the US and Canada, cetirizine is now available over-the-counter (OTC) in both countries as Zyrtec and Reactine, respectively. Zyrtec was the highest-grossing new non-food product of 2008 in the US, generating sales of $315.9 million. It is also available as a generic drug. Cetirizine is an effective agent in treating the symptoms of Kimura's disease, which mostly occurs in young Asian men, affecting the lymph nodes and soft tissue of the head and neck in the form of tumor-like lesions.
(Redirected from Ceterizine). Cetirizine /sɛˈtɪrɨziːn/ (trade names Zirtec, Zyrtec, Reactine) is a second-generation antihistamine used in the treatment of hay fever, allergies, angioedema, and urticaria. It is a major metabolite of hydroxyzine, and a racemic selective H1 receptor antagonist. Cetirizine is an effective agent in treating the symptoms of Kimura's disease, which mostly occurs in young Asian men, affecting the lymph nodes and soft tissue of the head and neck in the form of tumor-like lesions.
Function. Cetirizine hydrochloride works by blocking receptors in your body that are sensitive to histamine, a chemical released by your immune system in the presence of something that it mistakenly perceives as a threat known as an allergen. Cetirizine hydrochloride is available in its regular form and also in a combination therapy that includes pseudoephedrine, which is used to relieve nasal congestion in addition to allergy symptoms.
MHRA-UKPAR – Cetirizine Hydrochloride 10 mg Film-Coated Tablets PL 36390/0043 - 10 - OVERALL CONCLUSION AND RISK BENEFIT ASSESSMENT QUALITY The data for this application is consistent with those previously assessed for the cross-reference product and as such has been judged to be satisfactory. EFFICACY This application is considered identical to the previously granted licence for Cetirizine Hydrochloride 10 mg Film-Coated Tablets, PL 08137/0053, authorised to Neolab Ltd on 17 June 2002 in the UK.