MXN-Mexican Peso. Mexico, Peso. The Mexican Peso is the currency of Mexico. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Mexico Peso exchange rate is the MXN to USD rate. The currency code for Pesos is MXN, and the currency symbol is $. Below, you'll find Mexican Peso rates and a currency converter. You can also subscribe to our currency newsletters with daily rates and analysis, read the XE Currency Blog, or take MXN rates on the go with our XE Currency Apps and website. More info ►
The currency abbreviation for the Chilean peso (CLP), the currency of Chile. The peso is often presented with the symbol $ and is made up of 100 centavos, even though there are no circulating centavo coins. Chilean peso banknotes are issued by the Banco Central de Chile. 
What peso means. The Peso symbol ₱ is a sign of peso currency running in most of South America and also Mexic and Philippines.
The peso is usually denoted by the symbol ₱. Other ways of writing the Philippine peso sign are PHP, PhP, Php, or just P. The ₱ symbol was added to the Unicode standard in version 3.2 and is assigned U+20B1 (₱). The symbol can be accessed through some word processors by typing in 20b1 and then pressing the Alt and X buttons simultaneously. It is subdivided into 100 centavos (Filipino: sentimo, Visayan: sentabo). As a former colony of the United States, the country used English on its currency, with the word peso appearing on notes and coinage until 1967.
DEFINITION of 'MXN (Mexican Peso)'. The currency abbreviation for the Mexican peso (MXN), the currency for Mexico. The Mexican peso is made up of 100 centavos and is often presented with the symbol $ or Mex$. The name peso comes from the Mexican word pesos, which means weights, and refers to gold or silver weights. Next Up
World Currency Symbols. This page lists global currency symbols used to denote that a number is a monetary value, such as the dollar sign $, the Pound sign £, and the Euro sign €. This list is constantly under development and we rely on input from users like you to keep it as complete and accurate as possible. 
Currency Symbols. This is the page of the currency symbols that lists all currency symbols of the world, along with currency full names and currency codes (ISO 4217). Currency symbol is used as shorthand for a currency's name, especially referring to amounts of money. It is a graphic symbol which typically employs the first letter or character of the currency, sometimes with minor changes. Such as the dollar sign $, Yen sign ¥, and the Euro sign €.
The Philippine peso (Filipino: piso; sign : ₱; code: PHP), also referred to as peso, is the official currency of the Philippines. It is subdivided into 100 centavos (Filipino: sentimo, Visayan: sentabo). As a former colony of the United States, the country used English on its currency, with the word peso appearing on notes and coinage until 1967.
The Mexican peso (sign : $ ; code: MXN) is the currency of Mexico. Modern peso and dollar currencies have a common origin in the 15th–19th century Spanish dollar, most continuing to use its sign, $ . 