Luteinising hormone (LH) is made by the pituitary gland and  stimulates the mature egg to be released from the ovary, this is  called ovulation. So, to answer the question: … Luteinising Hormone  (LH). 
1 The so–called LH surge causes the release of the egg from the ovary and you‘re ovulating. 2  Ovulation normally occurs 24 to 36 hours after the LH surge, which is why LH is a good predictor for peak fertility. Ovulation. The level of estrogen in your body is still increasing and it eventually causes a rapid rise in luteinising hormone (often called the ‘LH surge‘). This LH surge gives the ripening egg the final push it needs to fully ripen and be released from the follicle. This process is known as ovulation.
GnRH stimulates (causes) the pituitary gland to produce follicle stimulating hormone (FSH), the hormone responsible for starting follicle (egg) development and causing the level of estrogen (the primary female hormone) to rise. 
Luteinising hormone (LH) is made by the pituitary gland and stimulates the mature egg to be released from the ovary, this is called ovulation. So, to answer the question: Luteinising Hormone (LH). 
Guide. A luteinizing hormone test measures the amount of luteinizing hormone (LH) in a sample of blood or urine. LH is produced by the pituitary gland. 1  In women, LH helps regulate the menstrual cycle and egg production (ovulation). 2  The level of LH in a woman's body varies with the phase of the menstrual cycle. 3  It increases rapidly just before ovulation occurs, about midway through the cycle (day 14 of a 28-day cycle).
Luteinising hormone is produced by the pituitary gland and is one of the main hormones that control the reproductive system. Alternative names for luteinising hormone Interstitial cell stimulating hormone; luteinizing hormone; lutropin; LH. What is luteinising hormone? Luteinising hormone, like follicle stimulating hormone, is a gonadotrophic hormone produced and released by cells in the anterior pituitary gland. At this point, high oestrogen secretions from the ovary stimulate a surge of luteinising hormone from the pituitary gland, which triggers ovulation. The fine tuning of luteinising hormone release is vital to maintaining fertility.
Ovulation is part of the normal menstrual cycle. It is stimulated by several different hormones during the first half of the 28-day cycle. An increase in follicle-stimulating hormone makes several follicles, each containing an egg, develop in the ovary. Later in the cycle, the follicle-stimulating hormone level drops. The female hormone estrogen then stimulates one egg to mature inside a follicle. Luteinizing hormone then stimulates the follicle to release the egg, causing ovulation.
1 These high estrogen levels trigger a sudden increase in another hormone called LH (Luteinizing Hormone). 2  The so–called LH surge causes the release of the egg from the ovary and you‘re ovulating. 3  Ovulation normally occurs 24 to 36 hours after the LH surge, which is why LH is a good predictor for peak fertility. Ovulation. The level of estrogen in your body is still increasing and it eventually causes a rapid rise in luteinising hormone (often called the ‘LH surge‘). This LH surge gives the ripening egg the final push it needs to fully ripen and be released from the follicle. This process is known as ovulation.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Luteinizing hormone (LH, also known as lutropin and sometimes lutrophin) is a hormone produced by gonadotropic cells in the anterior pituitary gland. In females, an acute rise of LH ( LH surge ) triggers ovulation and development of the corpus luteum. Luteinizing hormone (LH, also known as lutropin and sometimes lutrophin) is a hormone produced by gonadotropic cells in the anterior pituitary gland