Photo Credit Nicolas Agustin Cabrera/Demand Media. Some of your back muscles are considered part of the core muscle group. Your lower back and the outer-middle part of your back, sometimes called your lats, are the back muscles that are also core muscles. Strong back core muscles support your abs and help you with actions like sitting up at your desk, bending to tie your shoe or reaching up to take something off a shelf. 
Core exercise is any exercise that works any part of your trunk to your pelvic region. When most people tell me they want to work on their core, this means they want to work on their abdominal muscles. The abs aren't the only part of your core as so is your back and spine. In layman's terms the core consists of everything from your upper abs right above the rib cage to right below the gluteus to include the fron and back of the body. A core exercise is an exercise that targets any one of the 29 muscles found in the core.
The definition of  the core  would be the region of the hips, the spine and where the center of gravity is located. Within this area we have groups of muscles which help to stabilize the spine during movement, as well as muscles which help to produce such movement. In layman's terms the core consists of everything from your upper abs right above the rib cage to right below the gluteus to include the fron and back of the body. A core exercise is an exercise that targets any one of the 29 muscles found in the core.
Core stability relates to the bodily region bounded by the abdominal wall, the pelvis, the lower back and the diaphragm, spinal extensor muscle and its ability to stabilise the body during movement. Core stability is a body centre muscles around the naval region Typically, the core is associated with the body center of gravity, which is over the region of the second sacral vertebrae groups and stability is associated with isometric or static strength.
Functional movements are highly dependent on this part of the body, and lack of core muscular development can result in a predisposition to injury. The major muscles of the core reside in the area of the belly and the mid and lower back (not the shoulders), and peripherally include the hips, the shoulders and the neck. In all, the human anatomy is built to take force upon the bones and direct autonomic force, through various joints, in the desired direction. The core muscles align the spine, ribs, and pelvis of a person to resist a specific force, whether static or dynamic.
Brief Synopsis: Examines the core muscles in the belly area and mid and lower back includes core muscle exercises. From an anatomical perspective, the term, core, refers to a person's body with the exclusion of their legs and arms in general definitions. 
Many experts also include the muscles that surround the scapula as key core muscles.. This area is sometimes called the powerhouse because movement power and stability originate here. In addition to being the source of powerful, centered movement, the core muscles also provide a strong base of stability. In this article, this is how I refer to the core -. The core is the torso, extending from the shoulders to the pelvis. It is the body's center of power. When we refer to core strength, it is the intrinsic muscles that lie deep within the torso.
Definition. Core stability The human lumbar spine without muscles and viscera collapses easily. To allow movement, carry loads and protect the spinal cord and nerve roots “stability” is required. An alternative term to “core stability” is “motor control” that reflects concepts around lumbar stability in a more holistic approach including: the brain, sensory inputs, motor outputs, mechanical properties of muscles/joints, what is normal/abnormal and what may be adaptive/maladaptive.
There appears to be a consensus agreement that it is important to have good core strength or core stability in order to perform well in athletics/dance, and to prevent spinal injury. There is less information and less agreement on the definition of core muscle strength or core stability. Definition of Core Strength vs Core Stability: Core strength should be distinguished from core stability. In the Physical Therapy literature the historically older term is “Core Stability”. Core muscle strength is usually operationally defined by a measurement of the strength of core muscles, either in terms of how much weight/resistance a muscle can lift, how many repetitions a muscle can perform, or how long a muscle can hold a neutral stable position.