Pulmozyme (dornase alfa) is indicated for daily administration along with standard therapies for the management of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients to improve pulmonary function. 
Dornase alfa. Dornase alfa (Pulmozyme ®) is a highly purified solution of recombinant human deoxyribonuclease I (rhDNase), an enzyme which selectively cleaves DNA. Pulmozyme hydrolyzes the DNA in sputum/mucus of CF patients and reduces viscoelasticity in the lungs, promoting improved clearance of secretions. In this 1-year intervention study evaluating the effect of dornase alfa in children with mild CF lung disease, only the visual mucus plugging CT score at 1 year demonstrated significant differences between groups, with a continued decline in the dornase alfa group compared to an increase in the placebo group.
Dornase alfa (Pulmozyme ®) is a highly purified solution of recombinant human deoxyribonuclease I (rhDNase), an enzyme which selectively cleaves DNA. Pulmozyme hydrolyzes the DNA in sputum/mucus of CF patients and reduces viscoelasticity in the lungs, promoting improved clearance of secretions. [TABULAR DATA OMITTED]. Efficacy Outcomes/Results. Administration of dornase alfa significantly improved [FEV.sub.1], (Table 2, Fig 1). The mean percent change in [FEV.sub.1] in the dornase alfa group improved by 9.4% (96% CI, 6.81 to 11.96) compared with a 2.1% (CI, 0.07 to 4.18) improvement in the placebo group.
a natural enzyme that depolymerizes DNA molecules. Because as much as 70% of the solid matter of purulent material consists of viscous DNA derived from the nuclei of neutrophils, dornase is used in respiratory therapy of disease such as cystic fibrosis to help break down purulent secretions in the airways.
Dornase alfa is a biosynthetic form of human DNase I. The enzyme is involved in endonucleolytic cleavage of extracellular DNA to 5´-phosphodinucleotide and 5´-phosphooligonucleotide end products. It has no effect on intracellular DNA. Studies in rats indicate that, following aerosol administration, the disappearance half-life of dornase alfa from the lungs is 11 hours. In humans, sputum DNase levels declined below half of those detected immediately post-administration within 2 hours but effects on sputum rheology persisted beyond 12 hours.
The 260-amino acid sequence of dornase alfa is identical to the endogenous human enzyme. Dornase alfa cleaves extracellular DNA to 5´-phosphodinucleotide and 5´-phosphooligonucleotide end products without affecting intracellular DNA. Studies in rats indicate that, following aerosol administration, the disappearance half-life of dornase alfa from the lungs is 11 hours. In humans, sputum DNase levels declined below half of those detected immediately post-administration within 2 hours but effects on sputum rheology persisted beyond 12 hours.
Indication and Usage. Pulmozyme (dornase alfa) is indicated for daily administration along with standard therapies for the management of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients to improve pulmonary function. 
BRAND NAME: Pulmozyme. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Dornase alpha is an inhaled drug for treating cystic fibrosis, a lung disease which is the most common fatal genetic disease in developed countries. The lungs continually secrete fluid into the airways to keep them moist. GENERIC NAME: dornase alpha
Dornase alfa Dornase alfa (Pulmozyme®) is a highly purified solution of recombinant human deoxyribonuclease I (rhDNase), an enzyme which selectively cleaves DNA. Pulmozyme hydrolyzes the DNA in sputum/mucus of CF patients and reduces viscoelasticity in the lungs, promoting improved clearance of secretions. [TABULAR DATA OMITTED]. Efficacy Outcomes/Results. Administration of dornase alfa significantly improved [FEV.sub.1], (Table 2, Fig 1). The mean percent change in [FEV.sub.1] in the dornase alfa group improved by 9.4% (96% CI, 6.81 to 11.96) compared with a 2.1% (CI, 0.07 to 4.18) improvement in the placebo group.