The park was constructed by Walt Disney Imagineering in the same style as Disneyland in California and Magic Kingdom in Florida. It is owned by The Oriental Land Company, which licenses the theme from The Walt Disney Company. The park is noted for its extensive open spaces, to accommodate the large crowds that visit the park. In 2013, Tokyo Disneyland hosted 17.2 million visitors, making it the world's second-most visited theme park behind the Magic Kingdom at Walt Disney World Resort.
Tokyo Disney. Tokyo Disney started with one theme park, Tokyo Disneyland, in 1983, and has since expanded to include a second theme park, Tokyo DisneySea, along with three hotels and a shopping district called Ikspiari that resembles Downtown Disney in California and Florida.
Tokyo Disney-Guide to Tokyo Disney Resort including Tokyo Disneyland, Tokyo DisneySea, Tokyo Disneyland hotels (G uaranteed lowest rate) and Tokyo Disney map. Tokyo Disney is the most popular theme park in Japan and one of the most popular in the world. Tokyo Disney Resort (東京ディズニーリゾート) is complex comprising: 1  Tokyo Disneyland (東京ディズニーランド). 2  Tokyo DisneySea (東京ディズニーシー). 3  Ikspiari (イクスピアリ) shopping complex (similar to the Downtown Disney found in the Disney resorts in California and Florida). 4  Bon Voyage! - 5  official merchandise store. 6  Cirque du Soleil-Theatre. The four-station Disney Resort Line monorail connects Maihama Station to Tokyo Disneyland, Tokyo Disneysea and Tokyo Bay NK Hall plus the resort hotels.
“The Kingdom of dreams and magic.”. ―Official slogan. Tokyo Disneyland (東京ディズニーランド Tōkyō Dizunīrando) is a 115-acre (46.5 ha) theme park at the Tokyo Disney Resort located in Urayasu, Chiba, Japan, near Tokyo. Its main gate is directly adjacent to both Maihama Station and Tokyo Disneyland Station. 33,304 pages on this wiki. Tokyo Disneyland (東京ディズニーランド Tōkyō Dizunīrando) is a 115-acre (46.5 ha) theme park at the Tokyo Disney Resort located in Urayasu, Chiba, Japan, near Tokyo.
by WCC on. in Asia. Tokyo Disneyland is the first Disney park built outside the United States, opened in 1983. The park complex is located in the Tokyo Disney Resort. It copies the main Magic Kingdom which it inherits the plan (inspired by Disneyland) and Cinderella’s Castle. But the successive additions since the opening have erased some similarities.
Tokyo Disneyland and its companion park, Tokyo DisneySea, are the only Disney parks not wholly or partially owned by the Walt Disney Company. The park is noted for its extensive open spaces, to accommodate the large crowds that visit the park. In 2013, Tokyo Disneyland hosted 17.2 million visitors, making it the world's second-most visited theme park behind the Magic Kingdom at Walt Disney World Resort.
/ Home / Tokyo Disneyland /. If you're a fan of Disney theme parks like I am, your biggest curiosity about Tokyo Disneyland Park is probably how it compares with the American Disney parks. The answer is: it's very similar, and it's very different. The biggest difference is probably the most obvious: Tokyo Disneyland Park is located in Japan. Most of the dialog in the rides and attractions is in Japanese. All signs, restaurant menus, etc., are printed in Japanese (although they all include English translation in small print). 
Tokyo Disneyland (東京ディズニーランド, Tōkyō Dizunīrando) is a 115-acre (465,000 m 2) theme park at the Tokyo Disney Resort in Urayasu, Chiba, Japan, near Tokyo. Its main gate is directly adjacent to both Maihama Station and Tokyo Disneyland Station. The park is noted for its extensive open spaces, to accommodate the large crowds that visit the park. In 2013, Tokyo Disneyland hosted 17.2 million visitors, making it the world's second-most visited theme park behind the Magic Kingdom at Walt Disney World Resort.