Acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) is an infectious disease caused by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). There are two variants of the HIV virus, HIV-1 and HIV-2, both of which ultimately cause AIDS. The HIV virus infects cells with CD4 surface proteins, and as a result, depletes the number of immune system cells (T cells, B cells, natural killer cells, monocytes) in the individual's blood. Most of the damage to an AIDS patient's immune system is done by the virus' destruction of CD4+ lymphocytes.
Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV). HIV stands for human immunodeficiency virus. If left untreated, HIV can lead to the disease AIDS (acquired immunodeficiency syndrome). Unlike some other viruses, the human body cannot get rid of HIV. That means that once you have HIV, you have it for life. Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS). AIDS stands for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. AIDSis the final stage of HIV infection, and not everyone who has HIV advances to this stage. AIDS is the stage of infection that occurs when your immune system is badly damaged and you become vulnerable to. .
: any of several retroviruses and especially HIV-1 that infect and destroy helper T cells of the immune system causing the marked reduction in their numbers that is diagnostic of AIDS—called also AIDS virus, human immunodeficiency virus. : either of two retroviruses that infect and destroy helper T cells of the immune system causing the marked reduction in their numbers that is diagnostic of AIDS —called also AIDS virus, human immunodeficiency virus — compare HIV-1, HIV-2. See HIV defined for English-language learners.
AIDS: Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, a syndrome caused by infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), with ensuing compromise of the body's immune system. 
AIDS is a disease that can damage any of the body's major organ systems because HIV destroys immune system cells. HIV attacks the body through three disease processes: immunodeficiency, autoimmunity, and nervous system dysfunction. The HIV virus infects cells with CD4 surface proteins, and as a result, depletes the number of immune system cells (T cells, B cells, natural killer cells, monocytes) in the individual's blood. Most of the damage to an AIDS patient's immune system is done by the virus' destruction of CD4+ lymphocytes.
Appointments & care. At Mayo Clinic, we take the time to listen, to find answers and to provide you the best care. Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) is a chronic, potentially life-threatening condition caused by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). By damaging your immune system, HIV interferes with your body's ability to fight the organisms that cause disease. HIV is a sexually transmitted infection. 
Human immunodeficiency virus infection and acquired immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) is a spectrum of conditions caused by infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Following initial infection, a person may experience a brief period of influenza-like illness. Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) is defined in terms of either a CD4 + T cell count below 200 cells per µL or the occurrence of specific diseases in association with an HIV infection. In the absence of specific treatment, around half of people infected with HIV develop AIDS within ten years.
The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is a lentivirus (a subgroup of retrovirus) that causes HIV infection and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). AIDS is a condition in humans in which progressive failure of the immune system allows life-threatening opportunistic infections and cancers to thrive. 
Definition of AIDS for Kids. : a serious disease of the human immune system in which large numbers of the cells that help the body fight infection are destroyed by the HIV virus carried in the blood and other fluids of the body.