Lichen planus is an inflammatory skin condition, characterized by an itchy, non-infectious rash of small, polygonal (many sided) flat-topped pink or purple lesions (bumps) on the arms and legs. Other parts of the body may also be affected, including the mouth, nails, scalp, vulva, vagina, and penis. (Erosive lichen planus is a chronic, painful condition which affects mucous membranes-mainly the mouth and the genitals.). A risk factor is something which increases the likelihood of developing a condition or disease. For example, obesity significantly raises the risk of developing diabetes type 2
Lichen planus (LP) is a disease of the skin and/or mucous membranes that resembles lichen. The cause is unknown, but it is thought to be the result of an autoimmune process with an unknown initial trigger. There is no cure, but many different medications and procedures have been used to control the symptoms. 1 Genital lichen planus, which may cause lesions on the glans penis or skin of the scrotom in males, and the vulva or vagina in females. 2  Symptoms may include lower urinary tract symptoms associated with stenosis of the urethra, painful sexual intercourse, and itching.
Experts are not sure what the exact causes of lichen planus are. Many believe it is linked to an immune system disorder, where the person's white blood cells-which defend us from bad bacteria, viruses and other germs-mistakenly attack healthy tissues of the skin, mucous membranes, and hair. (Erosive lichen planus is a chronic, painful condition which affects mucous membranes-mainly the mouth and the genitals.). A risk factor is something which increases the likelihood of developing a condition or disease. For example, obesity significantly raises the risk of developing diabetes type 2
In most cases, the cause of lichen planus can't be found. It is not caused by stress, but sometimes emotional stress makes it worse. This disorder has been known to occur after contact with certain chemicals, such as those used to develop color photographs. In some people, certain drugs cause lichen planus. These drugs include medications for high blood pressure, heart disease, diabetes, arthritis and malaria, antibiotics, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory pain killers, etc. It is important to tell your doctor all the medicines you are taking
Lichen planus is a relatively common inflammatory disease that affects the skin and/or inside the mouth, resulting in distinctive skin and/or oral lesions. Lichen planus of the skin usually causes itching. There seems to be a relationship between the oral form and the skin form of lichen planus. In some people, certain drugs cause lichen planus. These drugs include medications for high blood pressure, heart disease, diabetes, arthritis and malaria, antibiotics, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory pain killers, etc. It is important to tell your doctor all the medicines you are taking
Lichen planus is a fairly common skin rash that is thought to be triggered by the immune system. Exactly why the immune response occurs is not known. There may be several contributing factors, and each case is different. Potential causes include viral infections, an allergen, or even stress or genetics. The most common type of lichen planus affects the skin. The lesions appear and spread over the course of several weeks and usually clear up within six months to a year and a half. Less commonly the lesions can occur on mucous membranes, genitalia, nails, and the scalp.
The most common areas are the inner wrists, the forearms and the ankles. Lichen planus may also affect the scalp, the nails or inside of the mouth. On the scalp, lichen planus may cause hair loss. Lichen planus of the nails can cause brittle or split nails. In the mouth, it looks like lacy white patches on the inside area of the cheeks. Sometimes lichen planus affects areas of skin where you had a cut or burn. 