You should use the Weighted Average Payment Terms calculation in conjunction with the Weighted Average Days To Pay or WADTP calculation. Subtracting the WADTP from the WAT gives you the value or gap of the average number of days past terms that your customers are paying you. A retailer like Amazon.com that is paid at the point of sale would have a zero weighted average terms metric, she explains. But, a manufacturer with long lead times or a company with a customer who is very dominant in an industry and enjoys extended terms could have average weighted terms of 60 days or more.
How to use the Weighted Average Payment Terms calculation; Using the trending information over time you will get an idea if the terms being offered by the company are on the increase and therefore will have a direct impact on cash flow. A retailer like Amazon.com that is paid at the point of sale would have a zero weighted average terms metric, she explains. But, a manufacturer with long lead times or a company with a customer who is very dominant in an industry and enjoys extended terms could have average weighted terms of 60 days or more.
= 6 times. Average payment period = 360 days /6 times. 60 days. The average payment period of Metro trading company is 60 days. It means, on average, the company takes 60 days to pay its creditors. Average payment period means the average period taken by the company in making payments to its creditors. It is computed by dividing the number of working days in a year by creditors turnover ratio. Some other formulas for its computation are give below:
Edmunds data tells the story: Since 2002, the average car loan term has slowly crept past five years, and is now inching past six-and-a-half years. In 2014, 62 percent of the auto loans were for terms over 60 months. And nearly 20 percent of the loans were for 73- to 84-month terms. The longer you finance a car, the more interest you will have to pay on it, both in terms of the rate itself and the finance charges over time. Edmunds recommends a 60-month loan, less if you can manage it.
Weighted Average Payment Terms or WAT is a metric that that show the average terms offered over a set period of time. Unlike the Days Sales Outstanding (DSO) calculation, the WAT is not in any way influenced by the Revenue / Sales numbers of a company. A retailer like Amazon.com that is paid at the point of sale would have a zero weighted average terms metric, she explains. But, a manufacturer with long lead times or a company with a customer who is very dominant in an industry and enjoys extended terms could have average weighted terms of 60 days or more.
In October 2003, the average car loan amount was $23,801, an increase of 0.9% from last October's $23,656. And the average finance rate rose from 5.46% in October 2002 to 5.63% in October 2003. So, taking into the increased term lengths this year's new car buyers will pay an average of $285 more in interest. New car prices are rising from month to month as well.
1 Set appropriate payment terms. 2  If you need to receive payment within 30 days, our data reveals that you will need to set your payment term 13 days or less. 3  Keep in mind that on average, debtors pay invoices two weeks after the due date. 1 If you need to receive payment within 30 days, our data reveals that you will need to set your payment term 13 days or less. 2
The average interest rate for a 55-60-month loan in 2014 was 2.41 percent, according to Edmunds data. The buyer would have a monthly payment of $528. The finance charges over the life of the 60-month loan would be $1,861. The longer you finance a car, the more interest you will have to pay on it, both in terms of the rate itself and the finance charges over time. Edmunds recommends a 60-month loan, less if you can manage it.
The loan term is 12 to 30 years, depending on the total amount borrowed. The monthly payment can be no less than 50% and no more than 150% of the monthly payment under the standard repayment plan. The monthly payment must be at least the interest that accrues, and must also be at least $25. Income-Contingent Repayment. 1 Standard Repayment. 2  Under this plan you will pay a fixed monthly amount for a loan term of up to 10 years. 3  Depending on the amount of the loan, the loan term may be shorter than 10 years. 4  There is a $50 minimum monthly payment.