1 The human named Deidre had to have it with her, a trinket or piece of jewelry with sentimental value that she never took off. 2  A trinket or bauble you inherited from a family member. 3  Yes, that neat little trinket is a source of constant magic that traps us. Sentence Examples. » more... 1  He held out his hand, and she deposited a small trinket in it.  2 That pocket is for knives, not your shit, Pierre snapped as Linda dropped another trinket she'd bought into one of his pockets.
A trinket is a small showy ornament, such as a jewel or a ring, or something that is a mere trifle. Trinket may also refer to: 1  Trinket Island, an island of the Nicobar Islands. 2  Trinket (village) , a village on the island. 3  Trinket snake, common name for Elaphe helena, a species of colubrid snake.
2,073 pages on this wiki. Trinkets are a category of items introduced in Season 4 and the preseason. They are placed in the trinket slot, which is independent from the player's main inventory and can only hold trinket items. The trinket slot as it appears in the season 4 inventory layout. Trinkets are purchasable for their respective costs and can be sold back to the shop for their sell-back values as long as the champion is in range of the shop. However, selling a trinket will disable all trinket-use for 120 seconds even if another trinket is purchased, regardless of its type.
Full Definition of TRINKET. 1. : a small ornament (as a jewel or ring). 2. : a small article of equipment. 3. : a thing of little value: trifle. See trinket defined for English-language learners. See trinket defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
A trinket box is also known by other terms such as jewel case or casket and has been used from the medieval times on the dressers. These are small boxes that are embellished on the top in a variety of designs and have a hollow space or concealment when opened. 
This is the 5V Trinket. There are two versions of the Trinket. One is 3V and one is 5V. Both work the same, but have different operating logic voltages. Use the 3V one to interface with sensors and devices that need 3V logic, or when you want to power it off of a LiPo battery. The 3V version should only run at 8 MHz.
Trinket. A trinket is basically the feminine word for a 'tool'. The dictionary definition of a trinket is cheap, showy jewelry, which is the same way you can describe a girl. A trinket is a girl who's just arm candy. She's hot and she knows it. But often, she doesn't have much else going on for her besides her looks. 
1 That pocket is for knives, not your shit, Pierre snapped as Linda dropped another trinket she'd bought into one of his pockets. 2  The human named Deidre had to have it with her, a trinket or piece of jewelry with sentimental value that she never took off. 3  A trinket or bauble you inherited from a family member. Sentence Examples. » more... 1  He held out his hand, and she deposited a small trinket in it.  2
trinket. n. 1. a small or worthless ornament or piece of jewellery. trinket. noun ornament, bauble, knick-knack, piece of bric-a-brac, nothing, toy, trifle, bagatelle, gimcrack, gewgaw, bibelot, kickshaw She sold trinkets to tourists.
1 He held out his hand, and she deposited a small trinket in it.  2 That pocket is for knives, not your shit, Pierre snapped as Linda dropped another trinket she'd bought into one of his pockets. 3  The human named Deidre had to have it with her, a trinket or piece of jewelry with sentimental value that she never took off. Sentence Examples. » more... 1 