Requirements for becoming a private school teacher vary by school. Often it's not necessary to earn a teaching license or certification, but knowledge of and passion for your subject area are essential.
Private School Teacher Education Requirements. A bachelor's degree is the minimum educational requirement for a private school teacher. Private schools typically prefer to hire graduates with either a 4-year subject degree or expertise in a specialized field, such as history or mathematics.
Educational Requirements. Private elementary school teachers are responsible for the creation of their classroom environments. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), many private school teachers have greater freedom in this area than their counterparts in public schools (www.bls.gov).
Teaching at a Private School. The market for teaching jobs in private schools is more focused and a bit narrower than that of public schools, but there are still many opportunities available. As of 2008, there were approximately ratio of students to teachers in private schools is 12.5 to 1.
Some schools have education requirements unique to the type of school. For example, teaching candidates may need to complete a certification process hosted by the private school in question, or at least progress through a teacher-training program.
How to Become a Special Education Teacher. Special education teachers in public schools are required to have a bachelor’s degree and a state-issued certification or license. Teachers in private schools also need a bachelor’s degree, but may not be required to have a state license or certification.
Private elementary school teachers may or may not be required by the state to attain licensure or a specific educational background. Schools, however, might require their teachers to complete a bachelor's degree program in education or similar.
Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a private elementary school teacher. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about education, job duties and requirements to find out if this is the career for you.