These insulated drop ceiling air vents are great to use in commercial areas with a 24 x 24 ceiling grid. Our commercial vent covers have a 360 degree air deflection and come in your choice of 5 core duct sizes. SKU: 3800-6. This butterfly damper is round and can attach to the 4 way commercial drop ceiling vents. Sliding clips are used for attaching them to the grilles duct collar and can be easily be opened or closed with provided handle. Available in 5 sizes and finished in a golden sand color.
Classically finished in a bright white enamel, this metal return air grille is perfect for your heating and cooling needs. Available only in this 4 foot long length, this triangular baseboard vent is also 4.5 in height. SKU: 3800-6. This butterfly damper is round and can attach to the 4 way commercial drop ceiling vents. Sliding clips are used for attaching them to the grilles duct collar and can be easily be opened or closed with provided handle. Available in 5 sizes and finished in a golden sand color.
Well this baseboard vent covers enamel finish is in a warm golden sand hue. The cold air return vent is constructed out of all steel and is a break away from the norm. Hart and Cooley baseboard vent covers are also made to be 7/8 deep so that this cold air return vent projects off the wall a little bit. Our cold air return vent can also be used in heating needs since it is just an open faceplate which distributes airflow. 31 3/4 x 9 3/4. Tip: To order your baseboard vent covers correctly, you must not measure an existing grille on your wall. Remove that grille and measure your wall hole opening. The 30 x 8 cold air return vent will cover a hole which measure 30 inches wide by 8 inches high.
An Industry Staple. Hart & Cooley’s products are an HVAC industry staple that are precision engineered, manufactured with premium material and tested thoroughly in our state-of-the-art facility. When offering or installing our product, you can be certain that they are built to last and offer superior performance. 
White baseboard supply register. Triangular side profile, projects .875 from wall at top and 3.75 from wall at bottom. Has 1/3 spaced fins set at 20 degree angle with positive volume control damper to adjust airflow. Steel construction. 
Let us help you through the selection process. Value AC is a proud distributor of Hart and Cooley registers, air diffusers, vent covers, and air conditioning vents. We can special order anything you need. Please call us at 1-888-242-7725 Toll Free for a quote. 
Welcome. As Hart & Cooley, Inc. looks to the future, we look back on more than a century of strength and heritage to be our guide. It is that strength and heritage you will see reflected in our new logos, websites and literature. View Our Brands ►.
Let us help you through the selection process. Value AC is a proud distributor of Hart and Cooley registers, air diffusers, vent covers, and air conditioning vents. We can special order anything you need. Please call us at 1-888-242-7725 Toll Free for a quote. We want to earn your trust! 