Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) is characterized by unreasonable fears or obsessions that cause a person to engage in compulsive behaviors to minimize or relieve their anxiety. Take good care of yourself. While you are getting treatment for your OCD, it is important to take good care of your whole body, mind, and soul. Join a gym, nourish your body with healthy foods, get plenty of rest, and nurture your soul by attending religious services or engaging in other soul soothing activities.
Coping with obsessive-compulsive disorder can be challenging. Medications can have unwanted side effects, and you might feel embarrassed or angry about having a condition that requires long-term treatment. Here are some ways to help cope with OCD: 1  Learn about OCD. 2  Education about your condition can empower you and motivate you to stick to your treatment plan. 3  Join a support group. 4  Support groups for people with OCD can help you reach out to others facing similar challenges. 5  Stay focused on your goals. Here are some ways to help cope with OCD: 1  Learn about OCD. 2  Join a support group. 3  Stay focused on your goals. 4  Find healthy outlets. 5  Learn relaxation and stress management. 6  Stick with your regular activities. 7  Lifestyle and home remedies. 8  Prevention.
Topic Overview. Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) can disrupt the entire family. In order to help someone with OCD, it is important that family members or loved ones learn as much as possible about the illness. It may help to attend counseling or support groups with or apart from your loved one who has OCD. You can learn ways to help the person with behavioral therap
While psychotherapy may not cure your OCD, it can be an effective way to cope with your OCD symptoms and make them less noticeable; therapy may be able to cure about 10% of cases, but it can improve the symptoms in as many as 50-80% of patients. Take good care of yourself. While you are getting treatment for your OCD, it is important to take good care of your whole body, mind, and soul. Join a gym, nourish your body with healthy foods, get plenty of rest, and nurture your soul by attending religious services or engaging in other soul soothing activities.
slide 1 of 5. The only true way to deal with OCPD is through therapy, which can help tame some of the inflexibility that often accompanies OCPD. At the same time, it can be helpful to have some tips about how to deal with people who have obsessive compulsive personality disorder. Whether you have a parent, spouse, friend, or co-worker of a person who has this disorder, you can use these tips to help you deal with them in the most helpful way possible. 
How To Cope With OCD. As with all forms of mental illness, there is no known cure for OCD. While medication can reduce or even eliminate the symptoms of OCD, if you stop taking the drug it is likely that your symptoms will return. This short article deals with moderate cases of obsessive compulsive disorder and explains different way of how to cope with OCD. Often extreme cases of OCD cannot be accommodated by family or lifestyle adjustments because they are disruptive and enslaving.
4. Build a strong support system to help you cope with OCD. While many people consider OCD to be a problem caused solely by an individual’s dysfunctional brain, it’s important to keep in mind that the onset of OCD is often preceded by traumatic, or even a series of especially stressful, life events. Take good care of yourself. While you are getting treatment for your OCD, it is important to take good care of your whole body, mind, and soul. Join a gym, nourish your body with healthy foods, get plenty of rest, and nurture your soul by attending religious services or engaging in other soul soothing activities.
OCD is an Anxiety Disorder, not a Catastrophe Disorder. To overcome OCD, you need to work with the anxiety of the thoughts, not the threats they make. You're not up against the catastrophes depicted in your thoughts. You're up against the thoughts, and how it feels to experience the thoughts. Thoughts are a dime a dozen. OCD is all about anxiety.
1 Intrusive thoughts. 2  Some people with OCD suffer from intrusive thoughts: thoughts that are inappropriate and that cause stress to the sufferer. 3  These usually fall into the three categories of inappropriate violent thoughts, inappropriate sexual thoughts, and blasphemous religious thoughts. Take good care of yourself. While you are getting treatment for your OCD, it is important to take good care of your whole body, mind, and soul. Join a gym, nourish your body with healthy foods, get plenty of rest, and nurture your soul by attending religious services or engaging in other soul soothing activities.