Increase the effective range of your Linksys 802.11b Access Point or Wireless Access Point Router. Stronger signal improves throughput by reducing retransmissions. Save on wiring costs--increase your Access Point's coverage into hard-to-reach areas. Simple installation--stack, connect, and go. Frequency: 2.4 G Hz (802.11b wireless networks). System requirements: The Wireless Signal Booster is designed to be used only with the Linksys WAP11 wireless access point or the Linksys BEFW11S4 wireless access point router. Turn up the volume on your Wireless LAN!
A benchmark can be used to measure throughput. In data transmission, network throughput is the amount of data moved successfully from one place to another in a given time period, and typically measured in bits per second (bps), as in megabits per second (Mbps) or gigabits per second (Gbps). Historically, throughput has been a measure of the comparative effectiveness of large commercial computers that run many programs concurrently.
They have not yet appeared on Intel's website. (Update: It's now on Intel's website; see post #10.). A diff of the INFs for these new 17.1.x vs. the old 17.0.x drivers reveals a new toggle option in the advanced driver settings pane, called Throughput Booster. The default setting is Disabled
In general terms, throughput is the rate of production or the rate at which something can be processed. When used in the context of communication networks, such as Ethernet or packet radio, throughput or network throughput is the rate of successful message delivery over a communication channel. Throughput is usually measured in bits per second (bit/s or bps), and sometimes in data packets per second (p/s or pps) or data packets per time slot. The system throughput or aggregate throughput is the sum of the data rates that are delivered to all terminals in a network.
A WiFi repeater could be the solution for you. A WiFi repeater or extender is used to extend the coverage area of your WiFi network. It works by receiving your existing WiFi signal, amplifying it and then transmitting the boosted signal. All you have to do is place the repeater in a location that can receive your existing WiFi network, and then attach the power supply. You can then log into the WiFi repeater via your computer, and input the login details and password of your existing WiFi network, to allow the WiFi repeater to connect and extend.
That gets a nice boost with BearExtender PC. Although throughput speed is not overwhelming at 75 and particularly at 100 feet, BearExender does manage to lengthen the router's signal and keep the laptop connected to the wireless network. The network became unreachable at 150 feet. 
1 2 antennas/2 streams doubles throughput. 2  3 antennas/ 3 streams triples throughput. 3  4 antennas/4 streams quadruples throughput. 4  Channel Bonding, which allows 2 distinct non-overlapping channels to simultaneously transmit data, produces a significant increase in possible data transmission. 1 A significantly improved bandwidth is achieved through the use of MIMO technology (Multiple Input, Multiple Output) that allows multiple antennas and signals (up to 4 streams) to be employed. 2  There is a linear relationship with each antenna at each end and throughput, such that: 3 
When the Intel Throughput Enhancement feature is enabled, the wireless adapter may transmit using the Short Interframe Space (SIFS) interval between packets instead of waiting for the expiration of the Distributed Coordination Function Interframe Space (DIFS) and additional random back-off time. Based on my experience, modifying these values is not possible with a cheaper brand-less wireless adapter. Recommended Reading: 12 Wireless Router Antenna Distance Coverage Comparison. 1  Step 1 – Search for ‘Device Manager’. 2  Step 2 – Select