What’s the best way to wear a lapel pin? And, where exactly should place a lapel pin on your suit? As with most fashion accessories, there are no steadfast rules, but here are some general guidelines: If there is a button hole sewn into the left lapel of your suit or jacket, that’s where the lapel pin should go. Of course, lapel pins need not be worn only on the lapel. Men may opt to wear a lapel pin on a tie in lieu of a tie tack. Women can wear lapel pins on blouses and scarves. Many pin collectors prefer to wear the pins on lanyards.
If there isn’t one, then you should place your lapel pin about one inch down from your tie knot and about four inches over on the lapel. Most people wear their lapel pins on the left (over the heart) to show that a certain group, cause, or country is near and dear to their hearts. Of course, lapel pins need not be worn only on the lapel. Men may opt to wear a lapel pin on a tie in lieu of a tie tack. Women can wear lapel pins on blouses and scarves. Many pin collectors prefer to wear the pins on lanyards.
1 Position the U.S. flag pin properly. 2  The pin should be worn roughly 1 to 2 inches directly above your heart. 3  If you are wearing a suit coat or a jacket with a lapel, the pin should be positioned on the lapel so that it is clearly visible. 4  Turn the American flag pin in the right direction. 1 The pin should be worn roughly 1 to 2 inches directly above your heart. 2  If you are wearing a suit coat or a jacket with a lapel, the pin should be positioned on the lapel so that it is clearly visible. 3  Turn the American flag pin in the right direction. 4  The pin should be right-side up and straight up and down.
1 Wear the American flag pin on the correct area. 2  The pin should be worn on the left side of your body as this is where your heart is located. 3  The pin will protect our heart as a small metal shield, somebody said. 4  Position the U.S. flag pin properly. 5  The pin should be worn roughly 1 to 2 inches directly above your heart. 1 The pin should be worn roughly 1 to 2 inches directly above your heart. 2  If you are wearing a suit coat or a jacket with a lapel, the pin should be positioned on the lapel so that it is clearly visible. 3  Turn the American flag pin in the right direction. 4  The pin should be right-side up and straight up and down.
1 The pin should be worn on the left side of your body as this is where your heart is located. 2  The pin will protect our heart as a small metal shield, somebody said. 3  Position the U.S. flag pin properly. 4  The pin should be worn roughly 1 to 2 inches directly above your heart. 1 The pin should be worn roughly 1 to 2 inches directly above your heart. 2  If you are wearing a suit coat or a jacket with a lapel, the pin should be positioned on the lapel so that it is clearly visible. 3  Turn the American flag pin in the right direction. 4  The pin should be right-side up and straight up and down.
Lapel pins are typically worn on a suit jacket or blazers for men and on a coat, silk scarf or blouse for women. The pin should be placed on the widest part of the lapel and on the left hand side of the body. Certain organizations, especially the military, have strict codes instructing the wearer to wear the lapel pin on either the right or left lapel. Men who are not wearing a jacket but are wearing a tie can wear their pin towards the middle of the tie. If a man is wearing a jacket and tie it is most appropriate to wear the pin on the left lapel and not directly on the tie.
Placement on a Jacket. People wearing suits and/or jackets should place the pin on their lapel. Traditionally, lapel pins are worn on the left, near the heart. This is especially important if the lapel pin symbolizes something important to the wearer, such as a flag. You need to take off the backing, push the pin into your lapel (or tie or shirt) until the point comes through the other side, and reattach the backing. The pin should sit upright on your lapel, tie or blouse.
A lapel pin is a small pin worn on clothing, often worn on the lapel of a jacket. Lapel pins can be ornamental or can indicate wearer's affiliation with an organization or cause. Before the popularity of wearing lapel pins, boutonnieres boutonnières were. worn 
2. LAPEL PINS: The correct location for a lapel pin is the left side of a jacket, near the heart. The United States Flag Code Section 8(J) states the following about wearing an American flag pin: “The flag represents a living country and is itself considered a living thing. 1. NAME TAGS: In the United States, proper etiquette states the name tag should be worn above the pocket on the right side of your shirt, blouse, or blazer.