Best Answer: The ribs are thin, flat, curved bones that form a protective cage around the organs in the upper body. They are comprised 24 bones arranged in 12 pairs.
Adult Humans have 12 pairs of ribs, making 24 ribs in total. ---------------------------------. Some believe that females have 24 ribs and men have less. That belief is usually based on the Biblical account of Adam and Eve. In reality, men and women have the same number of ribs, 24.
Both men and women have 24 ribs, twelve on each side. Each rib is attached to a spinal bone (thoracic vertebra) in the back. The first seven pairs of ribs join the breastbone (sternum) in the center of the chest. The front ends of the eighth, ninth, and 10th pairs are connected to the ribs above them.
The Human Rib Cage. All vertebrates have ribs. Humans, being complex evolved animals, have a complex rib cage, that comprises the ribs and sternum. Since the rib cage is present in the chest or thorax, it is also known as the thoracic cage.
Coming to the number of ribs in the human body, there are 12 pairs in the human body that is 24 in all. They are further categorized as true ribs, false ribs, and floating ribs, depending on their attachment to the parts of sternum.
men and women both have 24 ribs - 12 on each side. The first seven pairs of ribs are connected to the sternum (breast bone). Rarely, some pople have one more or less pairs of ribs due to various genetic mutations.
Answer by Fwmh. Confidence votes 79.8K. Adult Humans have 12 pairs of ribs, making 24 ribs in total. ---------------------------------. Some believe that females have 24 ribs and men have less. That belief is usually based on the Biblical account of Adam and Eve. In reality, men and women have the same number of ribs, 24.
Men and women both have 24 ribs - 12 on each side. The first seven pairs of ribs are connected to the sternum (breast bone). Rarely, some people have one more or less pairs of ribs due to various genetic mutations. For more information, visit the Related Links.