The most major symbol of the story are the chrysanthemums, which represent Elisa. Like Elisa, the chrysanthemums are currently dormant and bare, not in bloom. Like Elisa, they are confined to a narrow environment (the garden), with no way to escape.
First, the chrysanthemums symbolize Elisa's children. She tends her garden and handles the chrysanthemums with love and care, just as she would handle her own children. Elisa is very protective of her flowers and places a wire fence around them; she makes sure [n]o aphids, no sowbugs or snails or cutworms are there.
John Steinbeck's The Chrysanthemums is a story that is full of symbolism. After the first read, it might seem like an innocent tale about a woman and her garden. However, upon further examination, the reader learns it is actually a story about a woman's desires and frustrations in her life.
John Steinbeck's short story The Chrysanthemums is about a proud, strong woman named Elisa Allen who feels frustrated with her present life. Her frustration stems from not having a child and from her husband's failure to admire her romantically as a woman.
The tinker is a catalyst in Elisa's life. By giving him the red flower pot with the chrysanthemums, she gives him the symbol of her inner-self. She begins to feel hope for herself and her marriage as the tinker leaves. She sees a bright direction and a new beginning for her marriage.
The word “chrysanthemum” is a combination of two simple Greek words: “chrysos” meaning ‘golden’ and “anthemum” meaning ‘flower’. Although chrysanthemums can occur in a range of different colors, the golden variety is the most famous, and this coloring accounts for part of its symbolic importance.
The color of the flower can also affect the meaning behind the chrysanthemum. For example, if you receive a red chrysanthemum from someone, it is a symbol of love. A yellow chrysanthemum blossom on the other hand signifies neglected love or sorrow.
In John Steinbeck's short story, The Chrysanthemums, he uses the flower to symbolize his main character's thoughts and ideas. There are many examples of such symbolism in this work. Elisa Allen is a lonely woman who enjoys growing and nourishing her chrysanthemums.
In the second part of the story, the chrysanthemums come to symbolize Elisa's femininity and sexuality. The portrait of Elisa caring for the flowers as though they are her children is clearly a feminine image, but her masculine image is also observed in her hard-swept and hard-polished home (240).