In Vitro Fertilization is a one assisted reproductive technology (ART) commonly referred to as IVF. IVF is the process of fertilization by manually combining an egg and sperm in a laboratory dish, and then transferring the embryo to the uterus. 
Simply put, the definition of human fertilization is the union or joining of the egg and the sperm, resulting in a fertilized egg, otherwise known as a zygote. But the process of human fertilization is very complicated and comprised of many steps and components necessary to achieve the ultimate result of human life. 
Fertilization. Fertilization, which is the union of sperm and egg, occurs deep within the flower after pollination. When a pollen grain lands on the stigma, it generates a tiny tube tipped with sperm. The tube fits into a conduit called a style in the female pistil. 
Illustration depicting ovulation and fertilization. Human fertilization is the union of a human egg and sperm, usually occurring in the ampulla of the uterine tube. The result of this union is the production of a zygote cell, or fertilized egg, initiating prenatal development. Scientists discovered the dynamics of human fertilization in the nineteenth century. The process of fertilization involves a sperm fusing with an ovum. Fertilization occurs when the nucleus of both a sperm and an egg fuse to form a diploid cell, known as zygote. The successful fusion of gametes forms a new organism.
Medical Definition of FERTILIZATION. : an act or process of making fertile: as a: an act or process of fecundation, insemination, or impregnation b: the process of union of two gametes whereby the somatic chromosome number is restored and the development of a new individual is initiated. 
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. Fertilization is the process in which an egg and a sperm cell come together to form a zygote, beginning the series of events that can result in pregnancy. In mammals, including in human beings, eggs are released from the female ovary, and sperm from the male penis. 
Fertilisation (also known as conception, fecundation and syngamy) is the fusion of gametes to initiate the development of a new individual organism. In animals, the process involves the fusion of an ovum with a sperm, which first creates a zygote and then leads to the development of an embryo. Allogamy, which is also known as cross-fertilization, refers to the fertilization of an egg cell from one individual with the male gamete of another. Autogamy which is also known as self-fertilization, occurs in such hermaphroditic organisms as plants and flatworms; therein, two gametes from one individual fuse.
Fertilization is the act or process of initiating biological reproduction by insemination or pollination or the union of male and female reproductive cells (gametes) to produce a fertilized reproductive cell (zygote). it means to fertilize plants. the union of the male's sperm with the female's egg. It is also a. Fertilization is the process of the fusion of male and female cell .In fertilization the ovary turns into a fruit and the ovule into seed. 11 people found this useful.