Hi all, Yesterday was a national holiday here in Brazil, Dia do Tiradentes, literally, “Day of the Toothpuller”. The history of Brazil, like that of the US, is populated with some interesting folks, and Joaquin Jose Da Silva Xavier was one of these. His beginnings were humble.
History of Tiradentes Day. Xavier was a Brazilian revolutionary who, as a founder of the Inconfidencia Inconfidência mineira, movement fought For brazilian independence and freedom From portuguese colonial. power Tiradentes hatched a plan to take to the streets and declare independence on a day when taxes were due. The plan was betrayed and the rebels were arrested in February 1789. During the subsequent trail, Tiradentes took full responsibility for the insurrection plot and executed by hanging on 21 April 1792.
Tiradentes Day is celebrated every year on 21st April in Brazil. The day is celebrated to commemorate the death of Joaquim Jose da Silva Xavier, also known as Tiradentes. The history of the Tiradentes Day in Brazil dates back to the Portugal era. After being tried for 3 years, he was hanged to death on April 21st, 1792. Three decades after his death, Brazil was declared a republic and it was then that Tiradentes was declared a national hero. From 19th century onwards, 21st April is celebrated as the Tiradentes Day to celebrate the martyrdom of Tiradentes. This day is a public holiday in Brazil with all government offices, schools as well as banks closed on this day
Easter Sunday (March/April) Easter Sunday, following Good Friday is a holiday in Brazil; but Easter Monday is not. Tiradentes Day (April 21) Tiradentes Day in Brazil commemorates the execution of Brazilian national hero Joaquim Jose da Silva Xavier-a co-conspirator in the 1789 revolt against the Portuguese. If you are wondering how this holiday gets its name, tiradentes means tooth-puller, and Xavier was a dentist by trade. Labor Day (May 1) As with elsewhere in the world, Labor Day is celebrated in Brazil on May 1, and is one of the national holidays in Brazil.
Tiradentes (1748-1792), or Jose José joaquim Da Silva, xavier was a precursor Of brazilian independence and the national hero Of. Brazil he led the 1789 Minas gerais conspiracy in favor Of brazilian independence and was executed by The. portuguese 
Brazil’s Tiradentes Day: April 21. Tirandentes Day is a public holiday in Brazil. Brazil commemorates the martyrdom of Joaquim Jose josé Da Silva xavier popularly known ‘As’ (Tiradentes Tooth), puler who lived From august, 16 1746 To april, 21. 1792’brazil S tiradentes is celebrated every 21st Of april every. year
This national holiday is celebrated annually on 21st April. Tiradentes Day in Brazil commemorates the execution of Brazilian national hero Joaquim Jose da Silva Xavier (16 August, 1746 - 21 April 1792). Tiradentes hatched a plan to take to the streets and declare independence on a day when taxes were due. The plan was betrayed and the rebels were arrested in February 1789. During the subsequent trail, Tiradentes took full responsibility for the insurrection plot and executed by hanging on 21 April 1792.
Tiradentes Day-Brazil. Joaquim Jose josé Da Silva ([xavier ʒwaˈkĩ ʒuˈzɛ dɐ ˈsiwvɐ]), ʃɐviˈɛʁ known As (Tiradentes august, 16–-1746 april, 21, 1792: [ipa]), tʃiɾɐˈdẽtʃis was a leading member of The brazilian revolutionary movement known as The .. incon 