Skin Prick Tests. Food allergy symptoms are caused by the interaction between a food allergen and an antibody known as IgE (immunoglobulin E). To diagnose a food allergy, your allergist may use a skin prick test (SPT) to measure the presence of IgE antibodies for the suspect food. 
There are a number of different blood tests for IgE available: 1  Total IgE: this measures all IgE in the blood; this is not usually a helpful test, as a number of conditions cause IgE to be high (including eczema) and IgE levels do not necessarily relate to food allergy. 1
Types of Allergy Blood Tests. Allergy blood tests detect and measure the amount of allergen-specific antibodies in your blood. When you come into contact with an allergy trigger, known as an allergen, your body makes antibodies against it. Allergy blood testing is recommended if you: 1  Are using a medicine known to interfere with test results and cannot stop taking it for a few days. 2  This would include antihistamines, steroids, and certain antidepressants.
Allergy blood tests usually screen for at least 10 of the most common allergy triggers, including dust, pet dander, trees, grasses, weeds, and molds related to where you live. They are also particularly helpful in diagnosing food allergies. Allergy blood tests may be referred to as immunoassay tests and include: Allergy blood testing is recommended if you: 1  Are using a medicine known to interfere with test results and cannot stop taking it for a few days. 2  This would include antihistamines, steroids, and certain antidepressants.
The allergen-specific IgE antibody test is a blood test used to help diagnose an allergy to a specific substance or substances for a person who presents with acute or chronic allergy-like symptoms. Even if an IgE test is negative, there is still a small chance that a person does have an allergy. Similarly, if the specific IgE test is positive, a person may or may not ever have an actual physical allergic reaction when exposed to that substance.
Blood Tests. Blood tests measure the presence of IgE antibodies to specific foods. (IgE, short for “immunoglobulin E,” is the antibody that triggers food allergy symptoms.) In the past, these tests were called “RASTs” (which stands for radioallergosorbent tests) because they used radioactivity, but modern tests do not. Your allergist should explain the meaning of the blood tests to you. The results are not very helpful for predicting the severity of an allergy. Instead, the test gives information about the chance that there is an allergy.
Blood Tests. Blood tests measure the amount of IgE antibody circulating in the blood. The test is carried out on a small sample of blood, usually taken from a vein in the arm in the usual way. The sample is then sent to a laboratory and the results are available in 7 to 14 days. 1 Total IgE: this measures all IgE in the blood; this is not usually a helpful test, as a number of conditions cause IgE to be high (including eczema) and IgE levels do not necessarily relate to food allergy.
Allergy skin testing is the preferred method, but in some cases blood testing may be ordered. Allergy blood testing is recommended if you: 1  Are using a medicine known to interfere with test results and cannot stop taking it for a few days. 2  This would include antihistamines, steroids, and certain antidepressants.
Allergy Tests. Guide. Allergy testing involves having a skin or blood test to find out what substance, or allergen, may trigger an allergic response in a person. Skin tests are usually done because they are rapid, reliable, and generally less expensive than blood tests, but either type of test may be used. Allergy blood tests look for substances in the blood called antibodies. Blood tests are not as sensitive as skin tests but are often used for people who are not able to have skin tests. The most common type of blood test used is the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA, EIA).