The Carboniferous lycophytes of the order Lepidodendrales, which are cousins (but not ancestors) of the tiny club-moss of today, were huge trees with trunks 30 meters high and up to 1.5 meters in diameter. These included Lepidodendron (with its cone called Lepidostrobus), Anabathra, Lepidophloios and Sigillaria. 
Ferns were a common component of coal-forming ecosystems from the Carboniferous and Permian periods, just as in many environments today. They vary from small shrub-sized plants to large tree-ferns. 
Plants Cover The Earth. The Carboniferous Period of the Paleozoic Era began 354 million years ago. It lasted for about 64 million years, until 290 million years ago. The name “Carboniferous” came from the large amounts of carbon-bearing coal that was formed during the period. In the United States, the Carboniferous is divided into two epochs
Such swamps produced the coal from which the term Carboniferous, or carbon-bearing, is derived. The Carboniferous Period lasted from about 359.2 to 299 million years ago* during the late Paleozoic Era. The term Carboniferous comes from England, in reference to the rich deposits of coal that occur there. These deposits of coal occur throughout northern Europe, Asia, and midwestern and eastern North America. The term Carboniferous is used throughout the world to describe this period, although in the United States it has been separated into the Mississippian (early Carboniferous) and the Pennsylvanian (late Carboniferous) Subsystems.
Etching depicting some of the most significant plants of the Carboniferous. Coal forests were the vast swathes of wetlands that covered much of the Earth's tropical land areas during the late Carboniferous (Pennsylvanian) and Permian times. As vegetable matter from these forests decayed, enormous deposits of peat accumulated, which later changed into coal. Coal forest of tree ferns and lycopod trees, in a 1906 artist's rendering. The coal forests seem to have been areas of flat, low-lying swampy areas with rivers flowing through from higher, drier land.
- The Carboniferous Period is divided into the sub-periods of the Mississippian (Lower Carboniferous) and Pennsylvanian (Upper Carboniferous). It took place 354 million years ago and ended around 290 million years ago, totaling 64 million years and elapsing about 1.6 percent of geologic time. - The Mississippian takes place from about 354 to 323 mya, and the Pennsylvanian from about 323 to 290 mya. The period beginning and end is uncertain by 5 to 10 my.
Carboniferous forests were composed of lycopsids (club mosses), sphenopsids (horse tails), and ferns; in the mid-to late-Carboniferous, progymnosperms and early seeds plants appeared at tropical latitudes as ferns overtook lycopsids and sphenopsids to become the dominant plants in the forests. The Carboniferous is named for these early forests, which became a rich supply of the coal that fuels our precarious civilization (carbo ='coal' + ferre ='to carry'), though coal is also found in beds from other geological eras.
During most of the rest of Carboniferous times, the coal forests were mainly restricted to refugia in North America (such as the Appalachian and Illinois coal basins) and central Europe. Coal forest of tree ferns and lycopod trees, in a 1906 artist's rendering. The coal forests seem to have been areas of flat, low-lying swampy areas with rivers flowing through from higher, drier land.
Geologically, the Late Carboniferous collision of Laurasia (present-day Europe, Asia, and North America) into Gondwana (present-day Africa, South America, Antarctica, Australia, and India) produced the Appalachian Mountain belt of eastern North America and the Hercynian Mountains in the United Kingdom. The term Carboniferous is used throughout the world to describe this period, although in the United States it has been separated into the Mississippian (early Carboniferous) and the Pennsylvanian (late Carboniferous) Subsystems.