On average, IVF cost of a basic IVF cycle in the U.S ranges from about $12,000 - $15,000. Although some insurance companies cover IVF, often they don't. When looking into the cost of IVF you will find that costs will vary depending on an individual's circumstance. Also, you will find that costs vary from one clinic to another. It is important to determine exactly what is included when you are given a quote for the cost of an IVF cycle. IVF refund programs. Some clinics offer refund programs, for which you pay a set fee, usually between $20,000 and $30,000. The clinic will refund part your money if you do not get pregnant after three or four IVF treatment cycles. The terms vary from clinic to clinic, and not everyone qualifies.
Medication costs for IVF. Costs for IVF medications are not included in our IVF pricing plans. Medication costs can be as low as $1500, but average about $3000 and vary according to the unit price, the dosage and the duration of the ovarian stimulation. Meds can cost up to $7000. Insurance sometimes covers IVF medications. Coming to us from out of town for in vitro fertilization. Many couples travel here from other states in the US or Canada for their IVF or egg donation treatment.
Low cost IVF clinics or cheap IVF clinics will sometimes be attractive to patients in a self pay situation. However the cheapest IVF is not always the best option. 1  The goal is not to do IVF, it is to have a baby. 2  If a clinic charges only $6000 for IVF, that is certainly a lower than average price. Infertility and IVF insurance coverage is not common and a lot of variation is seen in what is covered and what is left for the patient to pay. The average cost of in vitro fertilization in the U.S. is currently about $11,000 to $12,000.
Additional costs: 1  Most clinics' fees include: ovarian monitoring, egg retrieval, fertilization of eggs, transfer of the embryo to the uterus and all associated physician's and laboratory fees. 2  Tip: Find out, in writing, what is included by a particular clinic and what costs extra. 1 For couples financing the cost of their own IVF, some clinics offer risk-sharing and pregnancy guarantee programs for about $16,000 to $25,000 total. 2  Clinics with non-traditional pricing programs and packages include The Advanced Fertility Center of Chicago and the Genetics & IVF Institute in Virginia and Maryland
1 IVF typically costs $8,000 to $15,000 per cycle; the national average is $12,400, according the The American Society for Reproductive Medicine. 2  Extra embryos can be frozen and implanted later, which is simpler and less expensive -- usually about $1,800 to $4,000 -- than another fresh cycle. 1 For couples financing the cost of their own IVF, some clinics offer risk-sharing and pregnancy guarantee programs for about $16,000 to $25,000 total. 2  Clinics with non-traditional pricing programs and packages include The Advanced Fertility Center of Chicago and the Genetics & IVF Institute in Virginia and Maryland
Embryo freezing Sometimes included in the basic IVF cost. Other clinics can charge up to 20% of the basic IVF treatment cost, plus around 10% of the basic IVF cost per year for storage and between 20% and 100% of the basic IVF treatment cost for later thawing and transfer. 
If you decide to use donor sperm to get pregnant, you’ll probably pay about $500 for one vial of donated sperm. If you get IUI with it, it will cost about $330, and if you get IVF, it will cost the normal IVF rate (see above). Donor eggs are much more expensive: about $24,000 to $25,000 per cycle. Gestational Carrier. Commonly known as a surrogate, a gestational carrier is a woman who can carry your pregnancy for you. 
It is important to remember that the total cost of IVF treatment is directly related to the success rate of the fertility clinic you select. In all cases, two cycles of IVF will be more expensive than one. For this reason, you should know the success rate of the IVF clinic you are considering. The IVF Cost Calculator was created by TD Media. We build all kinds of useful things for patients and clinics in the fertility industry. We grew tired of seeing some of the bait-and-switch tactics used by some clinics so we decided to do something about it. You can contact us with any questions.