Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a rare form of high blood pressure. It occurs in the pulmonary arteries that flow from your heart and through your lungs. Constricted and narrowed arteries prevent your heart from pumping adequate blood. When constriction occurs, the heart will need to work harder to compensate. This causes the blood pressure in the pulmonary arteries and in the heart to increase dramatically. As the condition worsens and the pressure becomes greater, you may begin experiencing a variety of signs and symptoms.
It may take some planning, but plenty of people who have it find ways to do all the things they love, just as they did before they were diagnosed. Having pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) means that you have high blood pressure in the arteries that go from your heart to your lungs. It's different from having regular high blood pressure. In other cases, there is another condition that's causing the problem. Any of these illnesses can lead to high blood pressure in your lungs: 1  Congestive heart failure. 2  Blood clots in the lungs. 3  HIV. 4  Illegal drug use (like cocaine or methamphetamine). 5  Liver disease (such as cirrhosis of the liver).
Blood pressure (BP) is the pressure exerted by circulating blood upon the walls of blood vessels. When used without further specification, blood pressure usually refers to the arterial pressure in the systemic circulation. It is usually measured at a person's upper arm. Blood pressure that is low due to a disease state is called hypotension, and pressure that is consistently high is hypertension. Both have many causes which can range from mild to severe.
Pulmonary hypertension (PULL-mun-ary HI-per-TEN-shun), or PH, is increased pressure in the pulmonary arteries. These arteries carry blood from your heart to your lungs to pick up oxygen. These changes make it hard for your heart to push blood through your pulmonary arteries and into your lungs. As a result, the pressure in your arteries rises. Also, because your heart is working harder than normal, your right ventricle becomes strained and weak.
Pulmonary arterial hypertension, or PAH, is a medical condition affecting the heart and lungs. People who have PAH develop high blood pressure (hypertension) in the arteries of their lungs (the pulmonary arteries). In order to push enough blood through pulmonary arteries that have been narrowed by PAH, the heart must work harder.
Signs and symptoms of pulmonary arterial hypertension occur when increased pressure cannot fully overcome the elevated resistance and blood flow to the body is insufficient. Shortness of breath (dyspnea) during exertion and fainting spells are the most common symptoms of pulmonary arterial hypertension. 
Letairis® (ambrisentan) is a prescription medicine to treat pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) (WHO Group 1) in patients with WHO Class II or III symptoms. PAH is high blood pressure in the arteries of the lungs. People who have PAH develop high blood pressure (hypertension) in the arteries of their lungs (the pulmonary arteries). In order to push enough blood through pulmonary arteries that have been narrowed by PAH, the heart must work harder.
It's measured with a traditional arm cuff. Pulmonary hypertension (or PHT) is high blood pressure that occurs in the arteries in the lungs. It is a different measurement altogether from systemic blood pressure. It reflects the pressure the heart must exert to pump blood from the heart through the arteries of the lungs. Pulmonary blood pressure is normally a lot lower than systemic blood pressure. Normal pulmonary-artery pressure is about 14 mm Hg at rest. If the pressure in the pulmonary artery is greater than 25 mm Hg at rest and 30 mm Hg during exercise, it is abnormally high and is called pulmonary hypertension.
Hypertension (HTN or HT), also known as high blood pressure or arterial hypertension, is a chronic medical condition in which the blood pressure in the arteries is persistently elevated. 
Definition. Hypertension is high blood pressure. Blood pressure is the force of blood pushing against the walls of arteries as it flows through them. Arteries are the blood vessels that carry oxygenated blood from the heart to the body's tissues. Arteriosclerosis is hardening of the arteries. The walls of arteries have a layer of muscle and elastic tissue that makes them flexible and able to dilate and constrict as blood flows through them. High blood pressure can make the artery walls thicken and harden.