Ghatotkacha (reigned c. 280–319 CE), had a son named Chandragupta (reigned c. 320–335 CE) (not to be confused with Chandragupta Maurya (322–298 BCE), founder of the Mauryan Empire .) In a breakthrough deal, Chandragupta was married to Kumaradevi, a Lichchhavi princess—the main power in Magadha. After the collapse of the Gupta Empire in the 6th century, India was again ruled by numerous regional kingdoms. A minor line of the Gupta clan continued to rule Magadha after the disintegration of the empire.
The Maurya Empire when it was first founded by Chandragupta Maurya c. 320 BCE, after conquering the Nanda Empire when he was only about 20 years old. Chandragupta extended the borders of the Maurya Empire towards Seleucid Persia after defeating Seleucus c. 305 BCE. The Maurya Empire was one of the largest empires of the world in its time.
Ancient India the place to be! Maurya- 324 BCE--185 BCE Gupta - 320 - 500 AD. -Candra Gupta was the powerful ruler of Gupta. -He took over the Mauryan Empire which was divided into 4 regions headed by one viceroy, then broken into smaller provinces led by governors, and then into districts, and finally into villages. -Bureaucracy = model government, monarchy. -Military = 60,000 people. -Mauryan Empire rulers were all in the Gupta family.
a ¢ â: Similar both empires united diverse peoples within  their. empire the monarchs of both Were. Hindu The Gupta empire  ruled much of North india from-320 550 & ce … The Mauryan empire  ruled much of the same territory of North india from-321 185. bce a ¢ â: Differences there are many. Differences one key difference  Is religion where The mauryans Followed buddhism and The Gupta  empire Followed. Hinduism other differences are from how each  empire. Collapsed The Mauryan empire collapsed due to dynastic siputes  and. invasions
The Gupta Empire ruled  much of north India from 320-550 CE & the … Mauryan Empire ruled  much of the same territory of north India from 321-185 BCE. The  third leader in both empires were the most successful rulers. The  leaders from both empires always attempt gaining more land for  their empire. a ¢ â: Differences there are many. Differences one key difference  Is religion where The mauryans Followed buddhism and The Gupta  empire Followed. Hinduism other differences are from how each  empire. Collapsed The Mauryan empire collapsed due to dynastic siputes  and. invasions
The Gupta Empire Begins. The Gupta Empire was an ancient Indian empire that was founded in 320 CE and survived until about 550 CE. The Gupta Empire covered most of north and central India, as well as Bangladesh. It was known to be one of the most peaceful and wealthy civilizations of its time. The Mauryan Empire collapsed in 185 B.C.E, after their final king was assassinated. For the next 500 years, the many states in India were at constant war. When Chandragupta ascended the throne and began the notable empire in 320 CE, the time of darkness was reversed.
The first empire of note was that of the Mauryan Dynasty. Its founder, Chandragupta Maurya (325-299 B.C.E.), was the ruler of Maghada, then the largest state in northeastern India. By 315 B.C.E. he had expanded into the Punjab and Indus River valley where he clashed with the Macedonian general, Seleucus. The fall of the Mauryan Empire allowed the expansion of the Greek kingdom of Bactria (modern Afghanistan) into northwestern India around 150 B.C.E. The Greeks probably influenced Indian culture in a number of fields: medicine, astrology, drama, and sculpture.
The Gupta Empire (Sanskrit: गुप्तसाम्राज्य, Gupta Sāmrājya) was an ancient Indian empire, founded by Maharaja Sri Gupta, which existed at its zenith from approximately 320 to 550 CE and covered much of the Indian Subcontinent. After the collapse of the Gupta Empire in the 6th century, India was again ruled by numerous regional kingdoms. A minor line of the Gupta clan continued to rule Magadha after the disintegration of the empire.
Gupta Empire. The Gupta Empire was one of the largest political and military empires in ancient India. It was ruled by the Gupta dynasty from around 320 to 550 CE and covered most of northern India. Origins. The origins of the Guptas are shrouded in obscurity. The Gupta dynasty ruled India north of the Vindhya Range during the 4th and 5th centuries. Though not as vast as Mauryan empire, The Gupta era left a deep and wide cultural impact not only in the subcontinent but on the adjacent Asian countries as well.