Globular proteins are water soluble proteins with spherical shapes and irregular amino acid sequences. The polypeptide chains are folded in, to form their shapes, and this shape is specific for each globular protein type. The water solubility of globular proteins enables them to transport through blood and other body fluids to various locations where their action is required. • Globular proteins often have several types of secondary structure, whereas fibrous proteins contain a single type of secondary structure. • The number of different types of globular proteins is higher than that of fibrous proteins.
Fibrous vs Globular Proteins. Proteins are biological compounds that are composed of one or more polypeptide chains. Each polypeptide chain is made up of amino acids bound together by peptide bonds. Thus, the functional and structural unit of protein is amino acid. • Globular proteins often have several types of secondary structure, whereas fibrous proteins contain a single type of secondary structure. • The number of different types of globular proteins is higher than that of fibrous proteins.
Myoglobin is another example of globular protein which is the chief protein found in muscles. Fibrous proteins are needed for the formation of tough structures like connective tissue, tendons and fibers of the muscle. Collagen is a major component of all our connective tissues. Fibroin is a fibrous protein which is used to produce silk by silkworms and webs of spider. Fibrous proteins are responsible for the production of the movements of the muscles and tendons at a joint. Summary: Fibrous proteins and globular proteins differ in size, shape, solubility, appearance as well as in function.
Scleroproteins do not denature as easily as globular proteins. Fibrous proteins have primary and secondary structures. They are made up of a single unit or structure which is repeated multiple times. Fibrous proteins are highly resistant to digestion by enzymes and are extremely tensile. Fibroin is a fibrous protein which is used to produce silk by silkworms and webs of spider. Fibrous proteins are responsible for the production of the movements of the muscles and tendons at a joint. Summary: Fibrous proteins and globular proteins differ in size, shape, solubility, appearance as well as in function.
Introduction: Globular proteins have no systematic structures. There may be single chains, two or more chains which interact in the usual ways or there may be portions of the chains with helical structures, pleated structures, or completely random structures. 
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. Globular proteins, also known as spheroproteins, are proteins formed by compacted amino acid chains, which are folded into intricate shapes that often roughly resemble spheres. This type of protein represents one of the three major protein groups. Almost all enzymes are globular proteins that vary in size, shape, and complexity. The role of enzymes in biochemistry is to act as catalysts, substances that speed or slow the rate of chemical reactions.
Enzymes as catalysts Enzymes are mainly globular proteins-protein molecules where the tertiary structure has given the molecule a generally rounded, ball shape (although perhaps a very squashed ball in some cases).
In a globular protein, the amino acid chain twists and folds in a manner that enhances the protein's solubility in water by placing polar groups of atoms at the protein's surface (where they can participate in attractive interactions with water molecules). The shape assumed by a globular protein molecule tends to maximize both types of attractive forces, whereby. Figure 1. The 3-dimensional molecular structure of the globular protein polymerase β. The ribbon represents the backbone of the amino acid chain with the various amino acids depicted by shading.
Lesson Summary. The group known as globular proteins is one of the three main protein groups based on shape and structure. All globular proteins are water-soluble, with their tertiary level of structure often resembling a globe or sphere. This 'globular' folded shape is crucial to the function of these proteins and their ability to serve a variety of biological roles. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member. Globular proteins are folded such that their tertiary structure consists of the polar or hydrophilic amino acids arranged on the outside and the nonpolar or hydrophobic amino acids on the inside of the three-dimensional shape. This arrangement is responsible for the solubility of globular proteins in wat