Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is a progressive, degenerative brain disease that slowly erodes memory and thinking skills, and eventually even the ability to carry out simple tasks. It is the most common cause of dementia. 
Overview of Alzheimer's Disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is an irreversible, progressive disorder in which brain cells (neurons) deteriorate, resulting in the loss of cognitive functions, primarily memory, judgment and reasoning, movement coordination and pattern recognition. 
Alzheimer's disease causes the most dementia in individuals over age 65 a progressive disease that causes the brain to detteriorate in a continusous process Alzheimer's disease (AD), also called Alzheimer disease, Senile Dementia of the Alzheimer Type (SDAT) or simply Alzheimer's, is the most common form of dementia. Scientist do not yet know how exactly Alzheimer's disease is caused. It is believed however that people with down syndrome will develope brain changes of Alzheimer's by age 40 … . The main risk of Alzheimer's disease is age. 10% of those over 65 and 50% of those over 85 have a chance of getting Alzheimer's.
The main risk of Alzheimer's disease is age. 10% of those over 65 and 50% of those over 85 have a chance of getting Alzheimer's. Scientist believe that Amyloid cascade hypothesis is the main cause of Alzheimer's. Alzheimer DISEASE, regenerative brain disease, progressive decline reflected intelligence. First described by German physician A. Alzheimer in 1907, the disease is a common form of acquired dementia (dementia). Only in the U.S. Alzheimer's affects about 1.5 million.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a degenerative brain disorder that manifests as a progressive deterioration of memory and mental function, a state of mind commonly referred to as dementia. A World Federation For Mental Health (WFMH) answered. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia, a term used to describe a group of symptoms affecting intellectual and social abilities severely enough to interfere with daily functioning.
Alzheimer's disease causes the most dementia in individuals over age 65 a progressive disease that causes the brain to detteriorate in a continusous process Alzheimer's disease (AD), also called Alzheimer disease, Senile Dementia of the Alzheimer Type (SDAT) or simply Alzheimer's, is the most common form of dementia. Alzheimer DISEASE, regenerative brain disease, progressive decline reflected intelligence. First described by German physician A. Alzheimer in 1907, the disease is a common form of acquired dementia (dementia). Only in the U.S. Alzheimer's affects about 1.5 million.
Alzheimer's disease is a progressive, irreversible brain disorder with no known cause or cure. It attacks and slowly steals the minds of its victims. Symptoms of the disease i … nclude memory loss, confusion, impaired judgment, personality changes, disorientation, and loss of language skills. Alzheimer DISEASE, regenerative brain disease, progressive decline reflected intelligence. First described by German physician A. Alzheimer in 1907, the disease is a common form of acquired dementia (dementia). Only in the U.S. Alzheimer's affects about 1.5 million.