Sub-Saharan Africa is, geographically, the area of the continent of Africa that lies south of the Sahara Desert. Only seven African countries are not geopolitically a part of Sub-Saharan Africa: Algeria, Egypt, Libya, Morocco, Tunisia, Western Sahara (claimed by Morocco) and Sudan, they form the UN subregion of Northern Africa which also makes up the largest bloc of the Arab World.
The physiography of Sub-Saharan Africa is dominated a series of lowland basins, highland plateaus and by tropical savanna zones, which are characterized by a wet summer season and a dry winter season as a result of the seasonal migration of the ITCZ (Intertropical Convergence Zone). The East African Rift Valley System is an example of a fissure in the Earth’s crust in which the continent is splitting apart, causing an extensive series of valleys, fingerlike freshwater lakes and volcanoes to form. The map below shows how dominant savanna zones are in sub-Saharan Africa, in particular the Sahel.
For example, the transition zone between Sub-Saharan Africa and North Africa is rather large because there is a mixing between the two regions. Regional geographers study this zone as well as the distinct characteristics of Sub-Saharan Africa and North Africa. Since the 1980s, regional geography has seen a resurgence as branch of geography in many universities. Because geographers today often study a wide variety of topics, it is helpful to break the world down into regions to make information easier to process and display.
East Africa Rift Valley System), proximity to the ocean (west coast of Africa, in particular Nigeria) and the presence of a major river delta (Niger Delta that empties out in Nigeria). The map below shows the population density patterns in sub-Saharan Africa. The East African Rift Valley System is an example of a fissure in the Earth’s crust in which the continent is splitting apart, causing an extensive series of valleys, fingerlike freshwater lakes and volcanoes to form. The map below shows how dominant savanna zones are in sub-Saharan Africa, in particular the Sahel.
Pronunciation: (subsu-har'un, -har'hâr, -un'haer), [här]. — un. key, adj of, pertaining to Or in africa south Of The: sahara desert-A sub; saharan-Country sub. saharan peoples 
Since probably 3500 B.C.E, the Saharan and Sub-Saharan regions of Africa have been separated by the extremely harsh climate of the sparsely populated Sahara, forming an effective barrier interrupted by only the Nile River in Sudan, though the Nile was blocked by the river's cataracts. Only seven African countries are not geopolitically a part of Sub-Saharan Africa: Algeria, Egypt, Libya, Morocco, Tunisia, Western Sahara (claimed by Morocco) and Sudan, they form the UN subregion of Northern Africa which also makes up the largest bloc of the Arab World.
It contrasts with North Africa, which is considered a part of the Arab world. Somalia, Djibouti, Comoros, and Mauritania are geographically part of Sub-Saharan Africa, but also part of the Arab world. The Sahel is the transitional zone between the Sahara and the tropical savanna (the Sudan region) and forest-savanna mosaic to the south. Only seven African countries are not geopolitically a part of Sub-Saharan Africa: Algeria, Egypt, Libya, Morocco, Tunisia, Western Sahara (claimed by Morocco) and Sudan, they form the UN subregion of Northern Africa which also makes up the largest bloc of the Arab World.
The Sahel is also a cultural transition zone separating the Arab and Muslim dominated countries of North Africa from the African and Christian (and/or animist) peoples of sub-Saharan Africa. Note how the presence of Islam tails off dramatically as one leaves the Sahel and enters sub-Saharan Africa. The East African Rift Valley System is an example of a fissure in the Earth’s crust in which the continent is splitting apart, causing an extensive series of valleys, fingerlike freshwater lakes and volcanoes to form. The map below shows how dominant savanna zones are in sub-Saharan Africa, in particular the Sahel.