Psychographic segmentation, sometimes referred to as behavioral segmenting, divides the market into groups based on not-so-visible characteristics, such as lifestyles, attitudes, expectations and activities of your target market. Note that these factors can be used in conjunction with demographic segmentation. 
Demographics. Demographic market segmentation is one of the most common approaches to segmenting markets. With this strategy, a company simply divides the larger market into groups based on several defined traits. Business Segmentation. Segmenting for business customers often has overlap but commonly includes geographic, customer type and behavior-based strategies. Geographic business segmentation is similar to that with consumer segmenting. Customer type segmenting may include business size or the nature of the business.
Usage-Rate Segmentation. The last type of segmentation is called usage rate. This segmentation consists of dividing customers by how much of the product is used or consumed. In general, 20% of all customers generate 80% of the demand for a product or service. Many companies use climate if their products or services rely on the weather, such as snow shovels, melting pavement salt, wave runners and boats. Our Town USA is more interested in targeting geographic locations that are located near the park in a 100-mile radius.
Psychographic Segmentation. A very complicated way to segment the market is through using psychographics. Psychographic segmentation is segmenting a market based on personality, motives and lifestyles. Many companies use climate if their products or services rely on the weather, such as snow shovels, melting pavement salt, wave runners and boats. Our Town USA is more interested in targeting geographic locations that are located near the park in a 100-mile radius.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Market segmentation is a marketing strategy which involves dividing a broad target market into subsets of consumers, businesses, or countries who have, or are perceived to have, common needs, interests, and priorities, and then designing and implementing strategies to target them. Marketers can segment according to geographic criteria—nations, states, regions, countries, cities, neighborhoods, or postal codes. The geo-cluster approach combines demographic data with geographic data to create a more accurate or specific profile.
Jupiterimages/Creatas/Getty Images. Geographic segmentation is a common strategy when you serve customers in a particular area, or when your broad target audience has different preferences based on where they are located. This marketing approach is common for small businesses that serve a wide demographic customer base in a local or regional territory. 
Lesson Summary. Let's review. Geographic segmentation is when a business divides its market on the basis of geography. You can geographically segment a market by area, such as cities, counties, regions, countries, and international regions. You can also break a market down into rural, suburban and urban areas. Geographic segmentation is when a business divides its market on the basis of geography. There are several ways that a market can be geographically segmented.
Geographic segmentation is used by companies that sell products or service specific to a certain community, state, region, country or group of countries. Local businesses usually get no benefit in paying for national or international advertising. Business Segmentation. Segmenting for business customers often has overlap but commonly includes geographic, customer type and behavior-based strategies. Geographic business segmentation is similar to that with consumer segmenting. Customer type segmenting may include business size or the nature of the business.
Psychographic Segmentation. Segmentation is used mainly to target a certain group from within a population. Psychographic segmentation is one which uses peoples lifestyle, their activities, interests as well as opinions to define a market segment. Psychographic segmentation is quite similar to behavioral segmentation.