1. characterized by anesthesia; numb. 2. pertaining to or producing anesthesia. 3. an agent that produces anesthesia. local anesthetic an agent, e.g., lidocaine, procaine, or tetracaine, that produces anesthesia by paralyzing sensory nerve endings or nerve fibers at the site of application. 2. removal of carbon dioxide, 3. quantifiable delivery of anesthetic vapor or gas, and. 4. capability of providing artificial respiration to the patient. anesthetic scavenging. the use of any device to reduce the pollution of the air in surgeries caused by exhaled anesthetic gases.
an·es·the·si·a ma·chine. Equipment used for inhalation anesthesia, including flowmeters, vaporizers, and sources of compressed gases, but not including the anesthetic circuit or mechanisms for elimination of carbon dioxide. 
In dentistry a simplified version of the anaesthetic machine, without a ventilator or anaesthetic vaporiser, is referred to as a relative analgesia machine. A two-person pre-use check (consisting of an anaesthetist and an operating department practitioner) of the anaesthetic machine is recommended before every single case and has been shown to decrease the risk of 24-hour severe postoperative morbidity and mortality.
The primary purpose of the anesthetic machine and system is to deliver an inhaled (gas) anesthetic to the animal to keep him unconscious through surgery. There are two basic types of anesthetic systems used for small animals: rebreathing and nonrebreathing. It is at this point that the system changes. The nonrebreathing system does not have each of the parts of a rebreathing system. It does have: Vaporizer-The vaporizer converts the liquid anesthetic to a gas state and adds controlled amounts of the gas anesthetic to the oxygen that is flowing through the machine.
1. pertaining to, characterized by, or producing anesthesia. 2. a drug or agent used to abolish the sensation of pain, to achieve adequate muscle relaxation during surgery, to calm fear and allay anxiety, and to produce amnesia for the event. 2. removal of carbon dioxide, 3. quantifiable delivery of anesthetic vapor or gas, and. 4. capability of providing artificial respiration to the patient. anesthetic scavenging. the use of any device to reduce the pollution of the air in surgeries caused by exhaled anesthetic gases.
anesthesia machine. Definitions: 1. equipment used for inhalation anesthesia, including flowmeters, vaporizers, and sources of compressed gases, but not including the anesthetic circuit or mechanisms for elimination of carbon dioxide. The definition information for anesthesia machine is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. Stedman's, part of Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, provides a comprehensive line of health-science publications for healthcare professionals and medical students.
This is done at the end of the anesthesia or if the animal is at too deep of a plane of anesthesia during the surgery. Vaporizer-The vaporizer converts the liquid anesthetic to a gas state and adds controlled amounts of the gas anesthetic to the oxygen that is flowing through the machine. It is at this point that the system changes. The nonrebreathing system does not have each of the parts of a rebreathing system. It does have:
Many of the early innovations in U.S. anaesthetic equipment, including the closed circuit carbon-dioxide absorber (aka: the Guedel-Foregger Midget) and diffusion of such equipment to anaesthetists within the United States can be attributed to Richard von Foregger and The Foregger Company. A two-person pre-use check (consisting of an anaesthetist and an operating department practitioner) of the anaesthetic machine is recommended before every single case and has been shown to decrease the risk of 24-hour severe postoperative morbidity and mortality.
1. pertaining to, characterized by, or producing anesthesia. 2. a drug or agent used to abolish the sensation of pain, to achieve adequate muscle relaxation during surgery, to calm fear and allay anxiety. See also anesthesia. 2. removal of carbon dioxide, 3. quantifiable delivery of anesthetic vapor or gas, and. 4. capability of providing artificial respiration to the patient. anesthetic scavenging. the use of any device to reduce the pollution of the air in surgeries caused by exhaled anesthetic gases.