Page 1. MO1105-EC Getting Acquainted Congratulations upon your selection of this CASIO watch. To get the most out of your purchase, be sure to read this manual carefully. Applications The built-in sensors of this watch measure direction and temperature. Measured values are then shown on the display. Such features make this watch useful when hiking, mountain climbing, or when engaging in other such outdoor activities. 1. Remove the watch from your wrist, and position it so its back is parallel with the ground and the 12 o’clock position is pointed away from you. 2. 
Determine the Strap Size. when measuring, it is always best to measure the watch case, rather than an existing leather strap. The leather strap may have shrunk over time, or it may not be the proper size. We have seen many watches with straps on them that were not the correct size to begin with. 4mm - 5mm. Heavy. over 5mm. method c: Measure using an English (Imperial) ruler measure the distance between the lugs of your watch in inches using an English ruler (like the one shown in the photo, below), and then convert the measurement to millimeters (mm) using the size conversion chart (at right).
Applications The built-in sensors of this watch measure direction, altitude, barometricpressure, and temperature. Measured values are then shown on the display.Such features make this watch useful when hiking, mountain climbing, orwhen engaging in other such outdoor activities. Enter the Digital Compass Mode.2. Place the watch on a flat surface or (if you arewearing the watch), make sure that your wristis horizontal (in relation to the horizon).3. Point the 12 o’clock position of the watch inthe direction you want to measure.4.
Remove the tape and measure the ribbon. Mark the measurement down on a piece of paper. Next, measure the watch case. It will be necessary to locate the pinholes in the lug and measure from that point across the watch to the second set of pinholes on the other side. Determine the Size of the Band That Needs to Be Replaced. The first step is to measure the distance between the lugs of the watch. These areas are located on both ends of the watch case at the 12:00 and the 6:00 positions. The band will fit inside these two metal pieces. The measurement needs to be taken between the two metal pieces that protrude from the watch cas
Aside from just the hip, industrial style of the watch, it has some less than common features for Casio timepieces. First is the 1/1000 of a second stopwatch (chronograph) function. When you need such precision, or how reliable your fingers are when it comes to such small variations in time-I don't know. The GA100 (aka GA-100) collection is not without its quirks, but overall it is a great watch. Casio calls it the X-Large Combi because the case is a bit big, and it is a combination of both analog hands and four small LCD screens.
If your watch band integrates with the watch case, we will not have a strap for you. Exceptions include select models from Casio, Seiko, Steinhausen, and Swatch. If your watch is Standard (accommodates a strap with a straight end) ...proceed to step 2. 4mm - 5mm. Heavy. over 5mm. method c: Measure using an English (Imperial) ruler measure the distance between the lugs of your watch in inches using an English ruler (like the one shown in the photo, below), and then convert the measurement to millimeters (mm) using the size conversion chart (at right).
At A Glance. Introducing the SGW200, a watch designed to support the daily training routines of runners. Features include World Time, Countdown Timer, stopwatch, and alarm, in addition to an Acceleration Sensor that uses your step count to measure running distance and a 150-record lap memory. Size of case / total weight. SGW200 51.6 x 44.2 x 13.6mm / 47g. *The sensor of this watch is designed to count steps and calculate data (pace, distance and energy consumption) when the watch is worn on the left hand. The sensor will not measure steps correctly if the watch is worn on the right hand, attached to a belt, while in a bag, etc