Muscular activity requires ATP, which is provided by the breakdown of glycogen in the skeletal muscles. The breakdown of glycogen, a process known as glycogenolysis, releases glucose in the form of glucose-1-phosphate (G-1-P). The G-1-P is converted to G-6-P by the enzyme phosphoglucomutase. The cycle is also important in producing ATP, an energy source, during muscle activity. The Cori cycle functions more efficiently when muscle activity has ceased.
Anaerobic ATP synthesis is coupled to formation of lactic acid from stored glucose (actually glycogen) or glucose from the blood (blood sugar). In the next figure you can see the progress of glucose metabolism following a meal and in a period with little work. Note that sudden increases in muscle activity such as spurting to the finish line in a race must be fuelled by anaerobic metabolism (that is, glycolysis from glucose or glycogen to lactate). This can result in a very rapid uptake of circulating glucose and quickly lead to a marked fall in the level of blood glucose.
If muscle activity has stopped, the glucose is used to replenish the supplies of glycogen through glycogenesis. Overall, the glycolysis part of the cycle produces 2 ATP molecules at a cost of 6 ATP molecules consumed in the gluconeogenesis part. The cycle is also important in producing ATP, an energy source, during muscle activity. The Cori cycle functions more efficiently when muscle activity has ceased.
Typically, anaerobic glycolysis occurs in muscle cells during vigorous physical activity. When the energy requirement for a particular action is not adequately met by aerobic means, the muscle cells process glucose without the use of oxygen in order to produce energy quickly. Certain cells and tissues convert glucose to lactate even in the presence of oxygen, including red blood cells and cells of the retina. Since the earliest cells had to thrive in conditions that were void of oxygen, metabolic pathways such as anaerobic glycolysis evolved to produce energy.
Aerobic exercise. Aerobic exercise means that muscles use up a lot of glucose as a fuel and tends to lower blood glucose levels. Anaerobic exercise involves higher rates of muscle contraction for shorter periods of time. Anaerobic exercise uses different body systems to generate fuel and is usually associated with release of chemicals (counter-regulatory hormones) that block the action of insulin and turn the liver on to make more glucose – this can mean that this type of exercise causes blood glucose levels to rise.
Anaerobic respiration. Not enough oxygen may reach the muscles during exercise. When this happens, they use anaerobic respiration to obtain energy. Anaerobic respiration involves the incomplete breakdown of glucose. This is because the breakdown of glucose is incomplete. Anaerobic respiration produces an oxygen debt. This is the amount of oxygen needed to oxidise oxidation: Oxidation is a reaction in which oxygen combines with a substance. Oxidation also means a loss of electrons. lactic acid to carbon dioxide and water.
Two different pathways are involved in the metabolism of glucose: one anaerobic and one aerobic. The anaerobic process occurs in the cytoplasm and is only moderately efficient. The aerobic cycle takes place in the mitochondria and is results in the greatest release of energy. 
In reality a lot of different types of activity are a mixture of aerobic and anaerobic exercise. Aerobic exercise involves any activity that uses large groups of muscles contracting at a relatively low rate – this means it can be maintained for a long time. Examples include cycling, swimming, jogging and fast walking. Anaerobic exercise uses different body systems to generate fuel and is usually associated with release of chemicals (counter-regulatory hormones) that block the action of insulin and turn the liver on to make more glucose – this can mean that this type of exercise causes blood glucose levels to rise.