To accommodate increasing overseas trade, North American shipbuilders developed fast sailing vessels called clipper ships in the mid-1800s. With their slender hulls and numerous sails (as many as 35), these swift ships were said to clip off the miles.. The first true clipper ship, The Rainbow, debuted in 1845.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A clipper was a very fast sailing ship of the 19th century that had multiple masts and a square rig. They were generally narrow for their length, could carry limited bulk freight, small by later 19th century standards, and had a large total sail area.
A clipper was a very fast sailing ship of the early to mid-1800s. The term developed as slang, as the ships were said to clip days off the usual time for a sea voyage. Historians differ on when the first true clipper ships were built, but there is general agreement that they became well established in the 1840s. The typical clipper had three masts, was square-rigged, and had a hull designed to slice through the water.
Clipper Ship Lightning by Bruce Von Stetina. The term clipper originally applied to a fast horse and most likely derives from the term clip meaning speed, as in going at a good clip. The Oxford English Dictionary says its earliest quotation in English is from 1830.
A clipper was a very fast sailing ship of the middle third of the 19th century. They were fast, yachtlike vessels, with three masts and a square rig. They were generally narrow for their length, could carry limited bulk freight, small by later 19th century standards, and had a large total sail area.
Departures of clipper ships, mostly from New York City and Boston, Massachusetts to San Francisco, Cali f ornia, were advertised by clipper ship sailing cards, and represented the first pronounced use of color in American advertising art.
The first ship used by Sea Aggies was the TEXAS CLIPPER, a 473-foot, 14,000-ton ship that began as a World War II transport ship called the USS Queens and ferried wounded troops injured on the battlefield, including operations in the Pacific during the battle at Iwo Jima.
The first ships to which the term clipper seems to have been applied were the Baltimore clippers. Baltimore clippers were topsail schooners developed in Chesapeake Bay before the American Revolution, and which reached their zenith between 1795 and 1815. They were small, rarely exceeding 200 tons OM.