The prevention and treatment of medical and psychosomatic disorders and of undesired behaviors, such as biting the fingernails, by the application of behavioral and psychological therapies such as behavior modification, biofeedback, relaxation training, and hypnosis. 
n. a multidisciplinary field of medicine which develops and integrates knowledge on how behavioral theories and therapeutic methods can be clinically applied. As a discipline, it derives more knowledge from behavioral research. It involves doctors, psychologists, psychiatrists, nurses, and social workers in disease management, intervention, and health promotion.
The practice of behavioral medicine encompasses health psychology, but also includes applied psychophysiological therapies such as biofeedback, hypnosis, and bio-behavioral therapy of physical disorders, aspects of occupational therapy, rehabilitation medicine, and physiatry, as well as preventive medicine. Writings from the earliest civilizations have alluded to the relationship between mind and body, the fundamental concept underlying behavioral medicine. The field of psychosomatic medicine is among its academic forebears.
Practitioners of behavioral medicine include appropriately qualified nurses, social workers, psychologists, and physicians (including medical students and residents), and these professionals often act as behavioral change agents, even in their medical roles. Writings from the earliest civilizations have alluded to the relationship between mind and body, the fundamental concept underlying behavioral medicine. The field of psychosomatic medicine is among its academic forebears.
Full Definition of PSYCHOLOGY. 1. : the science of mind and behavior. 2. a: the mental or behavioral characteristics of an individual or group b: the study of mind and behavior in relation to a particular field of knowledge or activity. 3. — psy·chol·o·gist \-jist\ noun. See psychology defined for English-language learners.
Behavioral medicine: An interdisciplinary field of research and practice that focuses on how people's thoughts and behavior affect their health. 
BEHAVIORAL MEDICINE Behavioral Medicine is a clinical psychology subspecialty. It integrates advances from a variety of health care fields and disciplines to provide evaluation and treatment of presenting problems which have medical, behavioral and psychological elements. The treatment philosophy of behavioral medicine assumes the presence of a physical problem that can be influenced by behavioral and psychological factors. Treatment seeks to identify, control and limit the potentially negative influence these factors can have on a patient’s physical/medical problem.
For this reason, behavioral medicine emphasizes honest and clear communication between the doctor and the patient in the successful treatment of any illness, and also in the maintenance of an optimal level of physical and mental health. Writings from the earliest civilizations have alluded to the relationship between mind and body, the fundamental concept underlying behavioral medicine. The field of psychosomatic medicine is among its academic forebears.
Behavioral medicine is an interdisciplinary field combining both medicine and psychology and is concerned with the integration of knowledge in the biological, behavioral, psychological, and social sciences relevant to health and illness. Writings from the earliest civilizations have alluded to the relationship between mind and body, the fundamental concept underlying behavioral medicine. The field of psychosomatic medicine is among its academic forebears.
Medical psychology is the application of psychological principles to the practice of medicine for both physical and mental disorders. Louisiana is the only state in which the practice of psychology, including psychological testing, psychotherapy, diagnosis, and treatment for some psychologists (i.e., medical psychologists) is regulated by a medical board.