The Vastus lateralis (/ˈvaestəsˌlaetəˈreɪlɨs/ ˈvæstəsˌlætəˈreɪlɨs /or/), ˈvaestəsˌlaetəˈraelɨs ˈvæstəsˌlætəˈrælɨs also ''called the'' vastus externus is the largest part of the, quadriceps femoris a muscle in. The thigh it arises from a series, of flat broad tendons attached to, the femur and attaches to the outer border of. the patella The Vastus lateralis (/ˈvaestəsˌlaetəˈreɪlɨs/ ˈvæstəsˌlætəˈreɪlɨs /or/), ˈvaestəsˌlaetəˈraelɨs ˈvæstəsˌlætəˈrælɨs also ''called the'' vastus externus is the largest part of the, quadriceps femoris a muscle in. the thigh
Vastus medialis. The vastus medialis muscle is a part of the quadriceps muscle group, located on the front of the thigh. It is the most medial, or inner, of the quadriceps muscles. It extends the entire length of the thigh. The portion of the muscle that is just above the knee is sometimes referred to as the vastus medialis obliquus, or VMO. This muscle is used to extend the leg at the knee and to stabilize the patella, which is also known as the kneecap.
The origin of the vastus lateralis is on the femur near the hip. It then runs down the lateral side of the thigh and attaches to the knee via the quadriceps tendon. This is also where the other two vastus muscles insert although the rectus femoris inserts at the patella tendon. Side lunges strengthen and tone the thighs -- including the vastus lateralis -- and other leg muscles. The vastus lateralis is used when extending the leg. Weak vastus medialis muscles can lead to a number of knee problems. Leg press machines can help improve the strength of the vastus lateralis.
Vastus lateralis. The vastus lateralis muscle is located on the side of the thigh. This muscle is the largest of the quadriceps group (often called quads) which also includes the rectus femoris, the vastus intermedius, and the vastus medialis. Collectively, the quadriceps muscle is the largest in the human body and its purpose is to extend the knee. The specific task of the vastus lateralis muscle is to extend the lower leg and allow the body to rise up from a squatting position. On the upper end, the muscle attaches to the femur; on the lower end it attaches to the patella, or kneecap
Common injuries to the vastus lateralis muscle include strains and contusions. A strain is actually a tear in the muscle and can result from an improper warm up before physical activity. A contusion is when the muscle is crushed against the bone, and is usually the result of an impact such as a bruising injury. Collectively, the quadriceps muscle is the largest in the human body and its purpose is to extend the knee. The specific task of the vastus lateralis muscle is to extend the lower leg and allow the body to rise up from a squatting position.
The vastus medialis (/ˈvaestəs ˈvæstəs/ ˌmɛdiˈeɪlɨs /or ˈvaestəs/) (ˈvæstəs ˌmɛdiˈaelɨs ˌmɛdiˈælɨs vastus internus) or teardrop muscle is an extensor muscle located medially in the thigh that. Extends the knee the vastus medialis is part of the. quadriceps muscle group 1 The obliquus genus muscle is the most distal segment of the vastus medialis muscle. 2  Its specific training plays an important role in maintaining patella position and limiting injuries to the knee. 3  With no clear delineation, it is simply the most distal fibers of the vastus medialis.
1 The vastus medialis is a muscle present in the anterior compartment of thigh, and is one of the four muscles that make up the quadriceps muscle. 2  It is the most medial of the vastus group of muscles, the others being vastus intermedius and vastus lateralis. 1 The obliquus genus muscle is the most distal segment of the vastus medialis muscle. 2  Its specific training plays an important role in maintaining patella position and limiting injuries to the knee. 3  With no clear delineation, it is simply the most distal fibers of the vastus medialis.
The vastus medialis is one of five muscles in the anterior compartment of the thigh. It is involved in knee extension, along with the other muscles which make up the quadriceps muscle. 1 The obliquus genus muscle is the most distal segment of the vastus medialis muscle. 2  Its specific training plays an important role in maintaining patella position and limiting injuries to the knee. 3  With no clear delineation, it is simply the most distal fibers of the vastus medialis.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. The vastus lateralis is the largest muscle in the quadriceps group. It is located on the outer portion of the thigh and is important in any movement that requires knee extension. The muscle also helps stabilize the patellar. Side lunges strengthen and tone the thighs -- including the vastus lateralis -- and other leg muscles. The vastus lateralis is used when extending the leg. Weak vastus medialis muscles can lead to a number of knee problems. Leg press machines can help improve the strength of the vastus lateralis.