Intraocular pressure: The pressure created by the continual renewal of fluids within the eye. The intraocular pressure is increased in glaucoma. In acute angle-closure glaucoma, the intraocular pressure rises because the canal into which the fluid in the front part of the eye normally drains is suddenly blocked. 
Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: intraocular lens (noun). an artificial lens that is implanted into the eye of someone to replace a damaged natural lens or someone who has had a cataract removed. 
• INTRAOCULAR PRESSURE (noun). The noun INTRAOCULAR PRESSURE has 1 sense: 1. pressure inside the eyeball;regulated by resistance to the outward flow of aqueous humor. Familiarity information: INTRAOCULAR PRESSURE used as a noun is very rare. Meaning: Pressure inside the eyeball;regulated by resistance to the outward flow of aqueous humor. Classified under: Nouns denoting natural phenomena. Context example: glaucoma results from increased intraocular pressure. Hypernyms (intraocular pressure is a kind of...):
Intraocular pressure (IOP) is the fluid pressure inside the eye. Tonometry is the method eye care professionals use to determine this. IOP is an important aspect in the evaluation of patients at risk from glaucoma. Intraocular pressure is mainly determined by the coupling of the production of aqueous humor and the drainage of aqueous humor mainly through the trabecular meshwork located in the anterior chamber angle. An important quantitative relationship is provided below:
An intraocular lens is like a contact lens that will be permanently implanted into your eye behind your iris (the blue, green or brown part of the eye). It does not need to be removed or cleaned, and will greatly improve your vision. An intraocular lens (IOL) is a precisely engineered artificial lens that is used to replace the cloudy (cataractous) lens. It’s incredible to think that a tiny little lens can do so much to change the way you see the world
Eye pressure is measured in millimeters of mercury (mm Hg). Normal eye pressure ranges from 10 to 21 mm Hg. When a person's pressure is higher than 21 mm Hg, they are at an increased risk for developing glaucoma. Some people can tolerate pressures slightly higher than normal without developing glaucoma