Basically, your body needs vitamins in order to work properly, and it needs different vitamins to help perform specific activities like produce energy, protect cells from damage, guide mineral utilization, and regulate cell and tissue growth. 
Inside the body, vitamins are used in many unique ways. For example, one of vitamin A's main roles is in the production of retinal. Retinal is used within the rods and cones in your eyes to sense light. There is no way for your body to produce retinal without vitamin A, and without retinal you cannot see. The body is able to store some vitamins, such as vitamin A (up to a year's supply is stored in your liver). Other vitamins need to be re-supplied frequently. 1  Vitamins. 2  Prenatal Vitamins. 3  How Vitamin A Works.
Fat-soluble vitamins are stored in the body in organs such as the liver. Most of the vitamin A that we consume goes to the liver to be stored until it is needed by another part of the body. The form of vitamin A found in fruits and vegetables is known as carotenoids. The most common type of carotenoid is-carotene (beta carotene). These carotenoids are used to build the type of vitamin A used by our body. Vitamin A is important to vision and the growth of the bones
Beta-carotene is a precursor for vitamin A. The body needs to convert it to retinol or vitamin A for use. Beta-carotene is found naturally in mostly orange and dark green plant foods, such as carrots, sweet potatoes, mangos, and kale. Retinol is sometimes called “true” vitamin A because it is nearly ready for the body to use. Retinol is found in such animal foods as liver, eggs, and fatty fish. It also can be found in many fortified foods, such as breakfast cereals, and in dietary supplements.
Overview. Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin, meaning that your body doesn't store it. You have to get what you need from food, including citrus fruits, broccoli, and tomatoes. You need vitamin C for the growth and repair of tissues in all parts of your body. It helps the body make collagen, an important protein used to make skin, cartilage, tendons, ligaments, and blood vessels.
Since this is the form of vitamin A used by the body, it is added to our stores of vitamin A right away. On the other hand, beta carotene is derived from plant foods and needs to be converted by the body into retinoids before it can be used. The form of vitamin A found in fruits and vegetables is known as carotenoids. The most common type of carotenoid is-carotene (beta carotene). These carotenoids are used to build the type of vitamin A used by our body. Vitamin A is important to vision and the growth of the bones
Cancel. Vitamin A is a group of different compounds that helps the body fight infection, improve vision and maintain skin health. Discover the benefits of vitamin A with tips from a licensed dietitian in this free video on nutrition. Part of the Video Series: Nutrition Tips. 
Vitamin A is a fat-soluble vitamin that is naturally present in many foods. Vitamin A is important for normal vision, the immune system, and reproduction. Vitamin A also helps the heart, lungs, kidneys, and other organs work properly. 1 Some types of fish, such as salmon. 2  Green leafy vegetables and other green, orange, and yellow vegetables, such as broccoli, carrots, and squash. 3  Fruits, including cantaloupe, apricots, and mangos. 4  Dairy products, which are among the major sources of vitamin A for Americans.