Foodborne botulism happens when food containing the toxin is eaten. Infant botulism happens when the bacteria develops in the intestines and releases toxin. Typically this only happens in children less than six months of age as after that protective mechanisms develop. Wound botulism is found most often among those who inject street drugs.
Botulism, also known as botulinus intoxication is a serious illness that causes paralysis, caused by the botulinum toxin. The toxin is caused by Clostridium botulinum, a type of bacterium. There are four ways in which the toxin can enter the human body: All types of botulism eventually lead to paralysis, which generally starts with the face muscles and then spreads to the limbs. 1 Adult botulism-by colonization of the digestive tract by Clostridium botulinum in adults. 2  Foodborne botulism-as a result of eating foodstuffs with the toxin. 3  Wound botulism-when botulinum toxin contaminates a wound.
Introduction. Botulism is a rare but potentially fatal condition caused by toxins produced by Clostridium botulinum bacteria. The toxins produced by C. botulinum are some of the most powerful toxins known to science. Botulism is caused by the bacteria Clostridium botulinum, found in soil, dust and river or sea sediments. The bacteria themselves are not harmful, but they can produce highly poisonous toxins when they are deprived of oxygen (such as in closed cans or bottles, stagnant soil or mud, or occasionally the human body)
1 Wound botulism is due to Clostridium bacteria infecting a wound and releasing the neurotoxin. 2  In infant botulism, the baby consumes spores of the bacteria which then grow in the baby's intestine and release the neurotoxin. 3  Honey can contain spores of the bacteria and should not be fed to babies less than 1 year of age. 1 Food-borne botulism is usually caused by eating contaminated home-canned foods. 2  Never taste-test food that may have gone bad. 3 
Botulism is a rare, but serious illness caused by a germ called Clostridium botulinum. The germ is found in soil and can survive, grow, and produce toxin in a sealed jar of food. This toxin can affect your nerves, paralyze you, and even cause death. Even taking a small taste of food containing this toxin can be deadly. 
In all cases, illness is caused by the botulinum toxin produced by the bacterium C. botulinum in anaerobic conditions and not by the bacterium itself. The pattern of damage occurs because the toxin affects nerves that fire (depolarise) at a higher frequency first. Infant botulism happens when the bacteria develops in the intestines and releases toxin. Typically this only happens in children less than six months of age as after that protective mechanisms develop. Wound botulism is found most often among those who inject street drugs.
Botulism is a serious illness that causes flaccid paralysis of muscles. It is caused by a neurotoxin, generically called botulinum toxin, produced by the bacterium Clostridium botulinum (and rarely by C. butyricum and C. baratii). 1 Food-borne botulism is usually caused by eating contaminated home-canned foods. 2  Never taste-test food that may have gone bad. 3  Wound botulism is due to Clostridium bacteria infecting a wound and releasing the neurotoxin.
1 The neurotoxin is produced by bacteria called Clostridium botulinum. 2  The neurotoxin paralyzes muscles and can be deadly. 3  There are three major types of botulism that differ in how they are acquired: food-borne, wound, and infant botulism. 4  Food-borne botulism is usually caused by eating contaminated home-canned foods. 1 Food-borne botulism is usually caused by eating contaminated home-canned foods. 2  Never taste-test food that may have gone bad. 3  Wound botulism is due to Clostridium bacteria infecting a wound and releasing the neurotoxin.
Neurotoxin, synthesized and secreted by Clostridium botulinum bacteria (and a few other Clostridium species), cause botulism. The toxin causes the disease by blocking the release of acetylcholine from motor nerve endings. This result produces the symptoms associated with botulism. 