The coldest months on average were: The wettest month by average rainfall in Riverside, CA is February with an average of 1.2 inches of rain falling on 7 to 8 days.Although in March it typically rains on more days with 0.8 inches falling in 7 to 8 days. Rain. The wettest month by average rainfall in Riverside, CA is February with an average of 1.2 inches of rain falling on 7 to 8 days.Although in March it typically rains on more days with 0.8 inches falling in 7 to 8 days.
Temperature. The warmest month in March Air Reserve Base, Riverside, California is August with an average high temperature of 93.0°F. The hottest day on record was September 12 1971 when the temperature hit 114.1°F. Rain. The wettest month by average rainfall in Riverside, CA is February with an average of 1.2 inches of rain falling on 7 to 8 days.Although in March it typically rains on more days with 0.8 inches falling in 7 to 8 days.
0.2. The highest average temperature in Riverside is July at 78.8 degrees. The coldest average temperature in Riverside is January at 53.2 degrees. The most monthly precipitation in Riverside occurs in February with 1.8 inches. The Riverside weather information is based on the average of the previous 3-7 years of data. The Riverside, CA air quality index is 54% greater than the California average and 71% greater than the national average. The Riverside, CA pollution index is the sum of the most hazardous air pollutants displayed in pounds
The driest month by average rainfall in Riverside, CA is June with an average of 0.0 inches of rain falling on 3 to 4 days. Although in August it typically rains on less days with 0.1 inches falling in 1 to 2 days. Rain. The wettest month by average rainfall in Riverside, CA is February with an average of 1.2 inches of rain falling on 7 to 8 days.Although in March it typically rains on more days with 0.8 inches falling in 7 to 8 days.
The annual average precipitation at Riverside is 10.22 Inches. Rainfall in is fairly evenly distributed throughout the year. The wettest month of the year is January with an average rainfall of 2.32 Inches. California Weather. Riverside, CA climate is warm during summer when temperatures tend to be in the 70's and cool during winter when temperatures tend to be in the 50's.
The highest average temperature in Riverside is July at 78.8 degrees. The coldest average temperature in Riverside is January at 53.2 degrees. The most monthly precipitation in Riverside occurs in February with 1.8 inches. The Riverside weather information is based on the average of the previous 3-7 years of data. Loading... The Riverside, CA air quality index is 54% greater than the California average and 71% greater than the national average. The Riverside, CA pollution index is the sum of the most hazardous air pollutants displayed in pounds.
Riverside Temperatures: Averages by Month. The numbers here tell you how hot and cold the weather usually is in Riverside, California during each month of the year. The average high and low temperatures are listed below for Riverside, in both degrees Fahrenheit and Celsius. Maximums and minimums are only part of the temperature picture. To fill in the rest, there's information on how many days a month get above or below a given temperature. To find out how often it rises over 80, 90 or 100 °F monthly and annually in Riverside, scroll down farther. There are also counts of nights with warm temperatures and days with cold weather. All the numbers are averages, based on climate data gathered from 1981 to 2010