The Meaning of Traditional Japanese Tattoos. There are a number of images and symbols used in the Japanese style of tattooing to convey specific meanings. These images are used to convey a person’s beliefs, aspirations, or character traits. Japanese Flower Tattoos: Japanese flower tattoos have a wide variety of meaning and are a very important and highly valued design in traditional Japanese tattoo art. For the sake of convenience, we’ve included the information about Japanese flower tattoos in our Flower Tattoos section.
Hanakotoba (花言葉) is the Japanese form of the language of flowers. In this practice plants were given codes and passwords. Physiological effects and action under the color of the flowers, put into words the impressions of nature and the presence of thorns with the height of tall plants, flowers and garlands of flowers through the various types. 
Our Flower Meaning Guide is designed to unravel these hidden mysteries, uncover these floral gems and open you up to a whole new language – the language of flowers. The Japanese call it Hanakotoba, and King Charles II brought it to Sweden from Persia in the 17th century. Hanakotoba is the Japanese name for associating certain flowers with different meanings. It is an age-old art form
Roses have always been the flower of love, but it actually depends of the color once again. A red rose or benibara means love or in love while a white rose or bara is a symbol of devotion, innocence and silence. Confidence, trust and happiness are the meanings associated with a pink rose, called momoirobara in Japanese. Divine birth and purity are some of the meanings given to the lotus flower. Closely associated with Buddhism. There are lotuses in different colors and each one has its own special meaning. White symbolizes spiritual perfection and mental purity. Passion, compassion and love is represented by a red lotus.
The hibiscus flower is another popular flower tattoo. In Japanese culture the hibiscus flower has one of the simplest meanings of all flowers in Japan. It holds just a singular meaning: gentle. In Hawaiian culture the hibiscus flower symbolizes royalty, power, and respect. 
It is impossible for any person to be completely unaware of flower meanings. Everyone knows that a red rose stands for romantic love and that one does not send yellow roses to anyone in mourning. However, meanings are associated not only with roses but also with other flowers. Most people do not consider flower meanings before gifting flowers. Similarly, people who receive flowers may not know their meaning and hence miss the underlying message. 
Beyond these national symbols, other flowers have more subtle meanings. In Japan, flowers are a traditional gift for both men and women. They are often used to convey what can't be spoken. The language of flowers (Hanakotoba, 花言葉) is fading. These days, many Japanese are unaware that flowers have traditional meanings. However, flower meanings do make occasional appearances in modern popular culture such as manga and anime. These are amongst the most popular flowers in Japan. 1. Red Rose (Akaibara, 赤い薔薇)Japanese meaning:RomanceWestern meaning:Romance 2. 
flowers and their meaning. From the origin of a flower's name to its distinctive characteristics and rich mythology, flowers are infused with symbolism and meaning. The Japanese call it Hanakotoba, and King Charles II brought it to Sweden from Persia in the 17th century. Hanakotoba is the Japanese name for associating certain flowers with different meanings.
There are also flowers that let the seasons pass and bloom accordingly. Flowers also have beautiful meanings. If you come to Japan, you should definitely know the meaning of Japanese flowers when you see them! Here are 10 of the most common ones. Kosumosu (Cosmos) – Autumn. This flower was also introduced to Japan in the Edo period. The shape of the flower is similar to Sakura, so it is written “Autumn Sakura” in Chinese characters (Kanji). In floral language it has the meaning of “Maiden Japanese heart”, “Cleanliness” and “Love”.
But not all people know the language of flowers. For the Japanese, who have been exposed to Buddhism and are naturally lovers of nature, flowers and their meanings are interwoven in the Japanese way of life. Divine birth and purity are some of the meanings given to the lotus flower. Closely associated with Buddhism. There are lotuses in different colors and each one has its own special meaning. White symbolizes spiritual perfection and mental purity. Passion, compassion and love is represented by a red lotus.