Common descent describes how, in evolutionary biology, a group of organisms share a most recent common ancestor. There is evidence of common descent that all life on Earth is descended from the last universal ancestor. Common ancestry between organisms of different species arises during speciation, in which new species are established from a single ancestral population.
Analogies are anatomical features that have the same form or function in different species that have no known common ancestor. For instance, the wings of a bird and a butterfly are analogous structures because they are superficially similar in shape and function. Homologies are anatomical features, of different organisms, that have a similar appearance or function because they were inherited from a common ancestor that also had them.
(a.) The species inherited many of the same genes as each other from a common ancestor. ... The species have developed from a common ancestor but due to environmental pressur … es they have speciated. 18 people found this useful. Divergent evolution is when different species have similar  characteristics due to a common ancestor. An example is a human arm  and a birds wing, both of which came from th … e same ancestor.
Homologous structures. are similar structures that related species have inherited from a common ancestor. Organisms with homologous structures might have evolved from the same ancestor. The more similar these structures are, the more closely related the organisms probably are. The same is true for molecular evidence.
Many different species of insects have mouthparts derived from the same embryonic structures, indicating that the mouthparts are modifications of a common ancestor's original features. These include a labrum (upper lip), a pair of mandibles, a hypopharynx (floor of mouth), a pair of maxillae, and a labium. Further evidence comes from the field of biogeography because evolution with common descent provides the best and most thorough explanation for a variety of facts concerning the geographical distribution of plants and animals across the world.
Report Abuse. The question doesn't make sense. The term used for similar features inherited from a common ancestor is homologous features. This is compared with analogous features which is also similar features but these features evolved separately. 
Further evidence for common descent comes from genetic detritus such as pseudogenes, regions of DNA that are orthologous to a gene in a related organism, but are no longer active and appear to be undergoing a steady process of degeneration from cumulative mutations. Further evidence comes from the field of biogeography because evolution with common descent provides the best and most thorough explanation for a variety of facts concerning the geographical distribution of plants and animals across the world.
Convergence, or convergent evolution, is the development of a similar anatomical feature in distinct species lines after divergence from a common ancestor that did not have the initial trait that led to it. The common ancestor is usually more distant in time than is the case with parallelism. Homologies are anatomical features, of different organisms, that have a similar appearance or function because they were inherited from a common ancestor that also had them.
When two species both have similar anatomical structures that were inherited from the same ancestor that also had them the similarities are referred to as being? 