Some synonyms for Rocky Mountain spotted fever in other countries include “ tick typhus ,” “ Tobia fever ” (Colombia), “ Sao São paulo ” fever “ or febre ” (Maculosa), brazil “ and fiebre ” (Manchada). Mexico it is distinct from the viral-tick borne, Infection colorado tick. fever Some synonyms for Rocky Mountain spotted fever in other countries include “ tick typhus ,” “ Tobia fever ” (Colombia), “ Sao São paulo ” fever “ or febre ” (Maculosa), brazil “ and fiebre ” (Manchada). mexico
Rocky Mountain spotted fever is an acute infectious disease transmitted to humans by the bite of an infected tick. The disease occurs throughout the United States during months when ground temperatures reach 40 degrees Fahrenheit or more and ticks are active. Diagnosis of Rocky Mountain spotted fever is based largely on the patient's signs and symptom's of illness. Blood tests are important in confirming a diagnosis, but treatment should begin promptly if symptoms and exposure history support this diagnosis.
Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF), also known as blue disease, is the most lethal and most frequently reported rickettsial illness in the United States. It has been diagnosed throughout the Americas. Some synonyms for Rocky Mountain spotted fever in other countries include “ tick typhus ,” “ Tobia fever ” (Colombia), “ Sao São paulo ” fever “ or febre ” (Maculosa), brazil “ and fiebre ” (Manchada). mexico
Rocky Mountain spotted fever is spread by the bite of an infected tick (the American dog tick or the lone-star tick) or by contamination of the skin with tick blood or feces. Person-to-person transmission does not occur. Diagnosis of Rocky Mountain spotted fever is based largely on the patient's signs and symptom's of illness. Blood tests are important in confirming a diagnosis, but treatment should begin promptly if symptoms and exposure history support this diagnosis.
Mountain fever: A viral disease transmitted through the bite of ticks (Rocky Mountain wood tick and American dog tick) who are infected with the virus. Because the virus infects blood cells including erythrocytes, transmission can also occur through transfusion with infected blood but this is uncommon. 
General Discussion. Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF) is an infectious disease that belongs to a group of diseases known as the spotted fever group rickettsioses. It is caused by infection with the bacterium Rickettsia rickettsii (R. rickettsii), which is usually transmitted by a tick bite. It is possible that the main title of the report Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
Definition. Rocky Mountain spotted fever is a bacterial infection transmitted by a tick. Without prompt treatment, Rocky Mountain spotted fever can cause serious damage to internal organs, such as your kidneys and heart. Early signs and symptoms of Rocky Mountain spotted fever include severe headache and high fever. A few days later, a rash usually appears on the wrists and ankles. Rocky Mountain spotted fever responds well to prompt treatment with antibiotics.
The first symptoms of Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF) typically begin 2-14 days after the bite of an infected tick. A tick bite is usually painless and about half of the people who develop RMSF do not remember being bitten. 
Rocky Mountain spotted fever is spread by the bite of an infected tick (the American dog tick or the lone-star tick) or by contamination of the skin with tick blood or feces. Person-to-person transmission does not occur. Rocky Mountain spotted fever is characterized by a sudden onset of moderate to high fever (which can last for two or three weeks), severe headache, fatigue, deep muscle pain, chills and rash.
RMSF is caused by Rickettsia rickettsii, a bacterium that is transmitted to humans via the bite of an infected tick. In the United States, these ticks include the Rocky Mountain wood tick (Dermacentor andersoni), the American dog tick (Dermacentor variabilis), and the brown dog tick (Rhipicephalus sanguineus). 