1 Compare this to the cost of a new kitchen countertop, which averages $50 per square foot installed (or $2,000 for the same 40 square foot counter area). 2  A fairly new countertop surface needing little preparation may cost as little as $700-$800 to resurface. 3  Most companies offer a limited warranty with their product. 1 A fairly new countertop surface needing little preparation may cost as little as $700-$800 to resurface. 2  Most companies offer a limited warranty with their product. 3  Make sure you understand the terms of the warranty before installation begins.
1 Expect a typical 40 square foot countertop to cost $1,000 to $1,500 to resurface. 2  Compare this to the cost of a new kitchen countertop, which averages $50 per square foot installed (or $2,000 for the same 40 square foot counter area). 1 A fairly new countertop surface needing little preparation may cost as little as $700-$800 to resurface. 2  Most companies offer a limited warranty with their product. 3  Make sure you understand the terms of the warranty before installation begins.
Countertop refinishing is almost always more affordable than replacing old and worn countertops, and especially custom countertops or large counters with curves and unique angles. Countertop refinishing will typically save homeowners 30% to 50% over total replacement costs. The biggest advantage of countertop refinishing is 50% or more savings over replacement. Equally important is avoiding the demolition mess associated with countertop replacement and the days waiting for the new countertop installation. A refinished countertop can usually be returned to light duty within 24 - 36 hours.
Countertop Refinishing Average Costs. The actual cost of resurfacing depends on the size and condition of the countertops, the company hired, the local market, and other factors. 1  If your bathroom countertops are small, you may only pay $350 to $500 for resurfacing. 1 If your bathroom countertops are small, you may only pay $350 to $500 for resurfacing. 2  For larger areas, however, costs could be $500 to $750 or more. 3  Some companies might charge a minimum of $500 or so to make the job worth their while.
Your countertops can have the high end look of granite or Corian for a fraction of the cost of replacing them. Resurfacing is the affordable, convenient alternative to replacement. No one but you will know your countertops aren´t brand new. The entire process from start to finish is done in one day. 
$7.99. Get an INSTANT estimate of the cost to Refinish Countertops! Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Countertop Refinishing project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Refinish Countertops ranges between $3.60 - $7.99 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1
Kitchen Countertop Resurfacing Costs. Please note that actual costs may vary widely depending on the condition of your current countertop (an overly abused countertop will require additional preparation, resulting in higher labor costs). 1  Expect a typical 40 square foot countertop to cost $1,000 to $1,500 to resurface. 1 A fairly new countertop surface needing little preparation may cost as little as $700-$800 to resurface. 2  Most companies offer a limited warranty with their product. 3  Make sure you understand the terms of the warranty before installation begins.
Through our advanced refinishing process, we have saved homeowners thousands of dollars in replacement costs. We’ve found that opting to resurface your countertop, rather than refinishing it, will typically save homeowners 30% to 50% over total demolition and replacement costs. Home Countertop Resurfacing. Why countertop resurfacing is a great alternative to replacement. It might be ugly and outdated. It might even be marred by scratches, cracks, knife marks and burns. But if you think your countertop is in such bad shape that the only option is replacement, you might want to think again.
Take your outdated kitchen counters from blah to beautiful. Countertop resurfacing is a fairly easy process of covering the existing surface with tile or sheet goods. In just a few hours or days, you can give your kitchen a whole new look at a fraction of the price of brand-new counters. Resurfacing works best over smooth laminate.