Report Abuse. Garcinia cambogia is a small, pumpkin-shaped fruit, sometimes called tamarind. Though native to Indonesia, it is also grown in India, Southeast Asia, and West and Central Africa. It has long been used in traditional South Asian dishes, including curries and chutneys. Many also use the fruit for curing fish and preservation. The extract and rind of Garcinia cambogia is a curry condiment in India. Extracts from this species are an ingredient in some herbal appetite suppressant and energy products, though there is no formal evidence to support its effectiveness.
The bark is used in Java for dyeing mats 4. Garcinia echinocarpa (Other names: -Tamil-Madul; Malayalam-Para) A handsome tree, 4-50 feet high, with subglobose dark red fruits, containing 1-3 seeds, found in the moist forests of southern Travancore and Tinnevelly at altitudes of 3000 - 5000 feet and in Ceylon. The seeds of the fruit yield (23 - 26% on the weight of seed, and 44% on the weight of kernels) a valuable edible fat known in commerce as Kokam butter. Kokam butter, like other Garcinia fats, is rich in combined stearic and olelc aclds.
Gulmohar (Fire of the Forest,Flamboyant, Royal Peacock flower, Royal Gold Mohur or Fire tree, Mayaram in Tamil,Neruppukkondrai Maram in Tamil, Shima Sankesula in Telugu, Krishnachura in Bengali and Gulmohr-गुलमोहर in Marathi) -- Delonix (or Poinciana) regia, commonly called turrai  in Telugu. 
Garcinia is a plant genus of the family Clusiaceae native to Asia, Australia, tropical and southern Africa, and Polynesia. The number of species is highly disputed, with various sources recognizing between 50 and about 300. Commonly, the plants in this genus are called saptrees, mangosteens (which may also refer specifically to the purple mangosteen, G. mangostana), garcinias or, ambiguously, monkey fruit . Most species in Garcinia are known for their gum resin, brownish-yellow from xanthonoids such as mangostin, and used as purgative or cathartic, but most frequently – at least in former times – as a pigment. The colour term gamboge refers to this pigment.
This is a small or medium sized tree with rounded crown and horizontal or drooping branches. Leaves are dark green and shining, elliptic obovate, 2-5 inch long and 1 - 3 inch broad. Fruits are ovoid, 2 inches in diameter, yellow or red when ripe, with 6 - 8 grooves; seeds 6-8 surrounded by a succulent aril. The seeds of the fruit yield (23 - 26% on the weight of seed, and 44% on the weight of kernels) a valuable edible fat known in commerce as Kokam butter. Kokam butter, like other Garcinia fats, is rich in combined stearic and olelc aclds.
Availability of Mangosteen in India. Mangosteen grows in four areas of India, as all of them are tropical, have high humidity and decent rainfall: Nilgiri hills, the southern districts of Tinnevelly and Kanya-Kumani in Tamil Nadu, and Kerala. In Tamil Nadu, the trees grow from 250ft to 5,000ft elevation
Common names: Mangosteen (the English derived from olden Malay, manggusta or manggistanl). In Portuguese it is called mangostao (Feijao) [Burkill]. Sinhalese: Mangus; Tamil: Sulambali; Hindi: Mangustan [Jayaweera]. Manggis (Sul.), mangostan (Tag.) [Quisumbing]. use. The fruit is the mangosteen, rated one of the most delectable of the tropics and pulp gives the fruit its reputation as one of the finest and most delicious of fruits. Good fruits may attain 6-7 cm in diameter and contain 5-7 seed surrounded by a white, sweet and succulent flesh [Burkill; 
Garcinia species are evergreen trees and shrubs, dioecious and in several cases apomictic. The fruit is a berry with fleshy endocarp, which in several species is delicious. Most species in Garcinia are known for their gum resin, brownish-yellow from xanthonoids such as mangostin, and used as purgative or cathartic, but most frequently – at least in former times – as a pigment. The colour term gamboge refers to this pigment.
Three of the species of Garcinia are known in Sri Lanka since old times: Garcinia cambogia or Garcinia gummi-gutta or Malabar Tamarind is the popular Goraka in Sinhala and Ko'rukkaap-pu'li in Sri Lankan Tamil. It is a native of the Western Ghats and Sri Lanka. This tree doesn't produce the Gamboje dye. Perhaps, Kokkaddi is native to Sri Lanka as it has been named Ceylon Gamboge and is known Kana-goraka (the forest goraka) in Sinhala. (Kaanak-ko'rukkai. Kaanam in Tamil and Kaanana in Pali mean forest).