The external structures of the male reproductive system are the penis, the scrotum and the testicles. Penis — The penis is the male organ for sexual intercourse. It has three parts: the root, which attaches to the wall of the abdomen; the body, or shaft; and the glans, which is the cone-shaped end of the penis. The organs of the male reproductive system are specialized for the following functions: 1  To produce, maintain and transport sperm (the male reproductive cells) and protective fluid (semen). 2  To discharge sperm within the female reproductive tract. 3  To produce and secrete male sex hormones.
The reproductive system or genital system is a system of sex organs within an organism which work together for the purpose of sexual reproduction. Many non-living substances such as fluids, hormones, and pheromones are also important accessories to the reproductive system. The male reproductive system has one function, and it is to produce and deposit sperm. Humans have a high level of sexual differentiation. In addition to differences in nearly every reproductive organ, numerous differences typically occur in secondary sexual characteristics.
Font Size. A. A. A. The purpose of the organs of the male reproductive system is to perform the following functions: 1  To produce, maintain, and transport sperm (the male reproductive cells) and protective fluid (semen). 2  To discharge sperm within the female reproductive tract during sex
The male reproductive system includes the scrotum, testes, spermatic ducts, sex glands, and penis. These organs work together to produce sperm, the male gamete, and the other components of semen. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The primary function of the male reproductive system is reproduction, which includes the production of spermatozoa, the transportation of spermatozoa from the testes out of the male body, the secretion by glands, and the placement of spermatozoa in the female reproductive tract. The male reproductive system, like that of the female, consists of those organs whose function is to produce a new individual, i.e., to accomplish reproduction.
The human male reproductive system is a series of organs (located in the pelvic region of a male) that contribute towards the reproductive process. The only real function is to procreate by fertilizing an egg in the womb of a female, i.e. to make females pregnant. The function of male and female reproductive systems is sexual reproduction to produce progeny. specify reproduce....secreting hormones...and plays a major role in sexual inte … rcourse Quite simple: Male: Testes-Hold sperm(Male gamete) Penis-Used during sex to increase chance of fertilisation.
Medical Definition of REPRODUCTIVE SYSTEM. : the system of organs and parts which function in reproduction consisting in the male especially of the testes, penis, seminal vesicles, prostate, and urethra and in the female especially of the ovaries, fallopian tubes, uterus, vagina, and vulva. 
The Male Reproductive System. The organs of the male reproductive system are specialized for the following functions: 1  To produce, maintain and transport sperm (the male reproductive cells) and protective fluid (semen). 2  To discharge sperm within the female reproductive tract. 3  To produce and secrete male sex hormones.