Here are some common reaction types. However, if you are asked to name the main 4, 5 or 6 types of chemical reactions, here is how they are categorized. 1  Direct Combination or Synthesis Reaction. 2  In a synthesis reaction two or more chemical species combine to form a more complex product. 1 An acid-base reaction is type of double displacement reaction that occurs between an acid and a base. 2  The H + ion in the acid reacts with the OH-ion in the base to form water and an ionic salt: 3  HA + BOH → H 2 O + BA. 4  The reaction between hydrobromic acid (HBr) and sodium hydroxide is an example of an acid-base reaction:
The substance (or substances) initially involved in a chemical reaction are called reactants or reagents. Chemical reactions are usually characterized by a chemical change, and they yield one or more products, which usually have properties different from the reactants. Chemical reactions happen at a characteristic reaction rate at a given temperature and chemical concentration. Typically, reaction rates increase with increasing temperature because there is more thermal energy available to reach the activation energy necessary for breaking bonds between atoms.
Classically, chemical reactions encompass changes that only involve the positions of electrons in the forming and breaking of chemical bonds between atoms, with no change to the nuclei (no change to the elements present), and can often be described by a chemical equation. Chemical reactions happen at a characteristic reaction rate at a given temperature and chemical concentration. Typically, reaction rates increase with increasing temperature because there is more thermal energy available to reach the activation energy necessary for breaking bonds between atoms.
Bubbles, and heat change are examples of chemical reactions. When a chemical reaction happens, a compound is formed. It cant be separated. Another example could be change of colour. Batteries: Chemical reactions within batteries produce electrons called electrochemical reactions. Halloween Lightsticks: A chemical reaction excites atoms causing the stick to glow. Homemade Volcano: When baking soda and vinegar are combined, they erupt as carbon dioxide gas is released.
1 Direct Combination or Synthesis Reaction. 2  In a synthesis reaction two or more chemical species combine to form a more complex product. 3  A + B → AB. 4  The combination of iron and sulfur to form iron (II) sulfide is an example of a synthesis reaction : 1 An acid-base reaction is type of double displacement reaction that occurs between an acid and a base. 2  The H + ion in the acid reacts with the OH-ion in the base to form water and an ionic salt: 3  HA + BOH → H 2 O + BA. 4  The reaction between hydrobromic acid (HBr) and sodium hydroxide is an example of an acid-base reaction:
A chemical reaction is a process that is usually characterized by a chemical change in which the starting materials (reactants) are different from the products. Chemical reactions tend to involve the motion of electrons, leading to the formation and breaking of chemical bonds. 1 An acid-base reaction is type of double displacement reaction that occurs between an acid and a base. 2  The H + ion in the acid reacts with the OH-ion in the base to form water and an ionic salt: 3  HA + BOH → H 2 O + BA. 4  The reaction between hydrobromic acid (HBr) and sodium hydroxide is an example of an acid-base reaction:
Matter interacts to form new products through a process called a chemical reaction or chemical change. Every time you cook or clean, it's chemistry in action. Your body lives and grows thanks to chemical reactions. There are reactions when you take medications, light a match, and take a breath. 
In biochemistry, a consecutive series of chemical reactions (where the product of one reaction is the reactant of the next reaction) form metabolic pathways. These reactions are often catalyzed by protein enzymes. Chemical reactions happen at a characteristic reaction rate at a given temperature and chemical concentration. Typically, reaction rates increase with increasing temperature because there is more thermal energy available to reach the activation energy necessary for breaking bonds between atoms.
The general concept of a chemical reaction has been extended to reactions between entities smaller than atoms, including nuclear reactions, radioactive decays, and reactions between elementary particles as described by quantum field theory. Chemical reactions happen at a characteristic reaction rate at a given temperature and chemical concentration. Typically, reaction rates increase with increasing temperature because there is more thermal energy available to reach the activation energy necessary for breaking bonds between atoms.