Homeostasis is the human body keeping a constant internal temperature. The definition of homeostasis is the ability or tendency to maintain internal stability in an organism to compensate for environmental changes. An example of homeostasis is the human body keeping an average temperature of 98.6 degrees
homeostasis. the tendency of biological systems to maintain relatively constant conditions in the internal environment while continuously interacting with and adjusting to changes originating within or outside the system. See also balance and equilibrium. adj., adj homeostat´ic. 
: Some definitions state or imply that homeostasis. the stable condition in which the body is maintained by the action of feedback systems making appropriate adjustments as necessary. Other definitions* of homeostasis state that homeostasis is the (active) maintenance of stable conditions within the body. 
Homeostasis is the regulation of internal biochemistry to maintain a constant internal environment. Without this constant regulation, living organisms would be unable to funct … ion. Therefore, homeostasis is the regulation of the internal environment of the body, and also the maintenance of this constant environment. Solving the world's problems. . . one answer at a time. Homeostasis is the maintenance of a constant internal environment in organisms even when there are external changes. For example, the body is able to maintain its same temperature of 98.6, the same pH balance, etc.
Homeostasis. The biological definition of homeostasis is “the tendency of an organism or cell to regulate its internal environment and maintain equilibrium, usually by a system of feedback controls, so as to stabilize health and functioning”. 
Not to be confused with hemostasis. Homeostasis or homoeostasis (homeo- + -stasis) is the property of a system in which variables are regulated so that internal conditions remain stable and relatively constant. Examples of homeostasis include the regulation of temperature and the balance between acidity and alkalinity (pH). It is a process that maintains the stability of the human body's internal environment in response to changes in external conditions. 
(3) homeostasis is the maintanance of the constant internal environment which include the function of kidney,liver,skin... Supplement. In humans, homeostasis happens when the body regulates body temperature in an effort to maintain an internal temperature around 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit. For example, we sweat to cool off during the hot summer days, and we shiver to produce heat during the cold winter season.