Deb suggests a tasty, funny idea for a buffet or an aperitif: the fish balls! Either fried or baked, they won't take you a long time to prepare. Find this and many more recipes with pictures on the Giallozafferano App (in English) http://itunes.apple.com/app/giallozaf... and coat with flour. Now fry the small balls in hot vegetable oil for about 3 minutes. When the fish balls are golden brown, take them out with a slotted ladle and place on kitchen paper. If you don't want to fry, you can bake them at 350°F (180°C) for 20 minutes.
1 Cover fish balls completely with strips of dough. 2  Slightly press strips to balls. 3  Fry balls in a plenty of oil 3-4 minutes (I baked balls in oven). 4  For sauce 5  :. Mix olive oil with white wine vinegar, minced garlic, a pod of hot pepper and honey. 1 Add the lemon juice, cream, salt and ground black pepper. 2  Gently form 25 small balls. 3  One layer of puff dough divided into 4 parts, each part to unroll and cut into thin strips (about 5 mm width). 4 
Fish balls are a common food in southern China, Southeast Asia and overseas Chinese communities made from fish paste (otherwise known as Chinese: 魚漿; pinyin: yujiāng; Yújiāng: jyutping jyu4, zoeng1 or In japanese). surimi Fish balls are a popular street food in the Philippines, and considered a cultural delicacy. The most common type of Filipino fish balls are known as bola-bola (literally, ball-ball).
Heat half the oil in a large non-stick frying pan over medium-high heat. Add half the fish balls and cook, turning often, for 5 minutes or until golden. Transfer to a baking tray. Repeat with the remaining oil and fish balls, reheating the pan between batches. 
Welcome to Fish Balls! Welcome to the Home of Fish Balls! Please check out our Online Store for the latest products. We appreciate you visiting us. Please be patient as we are remodeling our site to bring a better visitor experience. Rock Your Fish Balls Apparel. Mixing our edgy since of humor with our love for the great outdoors and water-sports we have come up with a whole line of fun clothes to rock while your enjoying your favorite activity. Get Some Gear.
The white fish balls found in some traditional Hong Kong restaurants are made using fresh fish; while street style are made using cheap fish and a mixture of flour to reduce costs. Flathead mullet (九棍魚/烏仔魚) and Daggertooth pike conger (門鱔) are common choices. Fish balls are a popular street food in the Philippines, and considered a cultural delicacy. The most common type of Filipino fish balls are known as bola-bola (literally, ball-ball).
White fish balls are larger in size and made with only fish, no other ingredients are added, and then boiled till done. As a result of this cooking method, these fish balls are white in color. White fish balls should have an elastic (bouncy) and fluffy texture and a strong taste of fish. They are made using a more costly fish, and has a considerably different texture and taste. Fish balls are a popular street food in the Philippines, and considered a cultural delicacy. The most common type of Filipino fish balls are known as bola-bola (literally, ball-ball).
Directions. 1  Cut fillet of cod into small cubes (I used a meat grinder, therefore it required an addition of flour). 2  Add the lemon juice, cream, salt and ground black pepper. 3  Gently form 25 small balls. 4  One layer of puff dough divided into 4 parts, each part to unroll and cut into thin strips (about 5 mm width). 5  Cover fish balls completely with ... 1 Add the lemon juice, cream, salt and ground black pepper. 2  Gently form 25 small balls. 3  One layer of puff dough divided into 4 parts, each part to unroll and cut into thin strips (about 5 mm width). 4  Cover fish balls completely with strips of dough.
So finally, I chanced upon a big mackerel (马鲛鱼) that is great for fish balls so in this post, I will teach you the step-by-step how to make fish balls. I will warn you that it’s going to take some time but when you bite into a bouncy fish ball, you will realize that it’s worth the effort. I will be honest I am not the best person to ask about the fish species, so check with your local fish monger if they can recommend a good fish for fish balls. You can use mackerel (马鲛鱼), 西刀鱼 (not sure about its English name), eel (鳗鱼), etc., so please check with your fish vendors.