Davis /dav-is/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced DAY-viss. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Davis is son of David. Short form of surname that was first used in the Middle Ages. Also a variant of David. Confederate President Jefferson Davis; actor Brad Davis. Below is a charted comparison of the usage of Davis and associated names. Popular alternative forms of Davis (#446 last year) ranked in the Top 1000 are Dave, Davey, David (#18 last year) , Davie, Davin (#926) , Davon, Davy and Dayton (#702) .
The name Davis is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Davis is: David's son. Scottish Meaning: The name Davis is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Davis is: David's son. American Meaning: The name Davis is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Davis is: David's son. 
Davies is a spelling variation of the patronymic Welsh surname Davis, that means David, a Hebrew name meaning beloved. Davies is much associated with Wales, owing to the name of its patron saint, David, and where it is pronounced DAY viss. Davies is the 2nd most common surname in Wales and 8th most common in England. It is not common in the United States where the spelling, Davis, is preferred.
Davies is also fairly widespread in the south-west of England, especially Cornwall. Davies is the 2nd most common surname in Wales and 8th most common in England. It is not common in the United States where the spelling, Davis, is preferred. Notable people with the surname include:
This distinguished surname, with no less than twenty Coats of Arms, and several notable entries in the Dictionary of National Biography, is a patronymic form of the male given name David, itself coming from the Hebrew Dodaveha meaning Beloved of Jehovah. 
DAVIS Genealogy. This is an open forum to discuss the origin, the meaning and the family stories of the surname DAVIS. Both your knowledge and the oral tradition of the origin and meaning of this surname will be helpfull. 
It is the 45th most common surname in England and 68th most common in Wales. According to the 2000 United States Census survey, 'Davis' was the 7th most frequently reported surname, accounting for 0.48% of the population, preceding Garcia and following Miller in its frequency.
Origin of the name Davis: Transferred use of the surname, which is a short-ened form of Davison (Davy’s son). Davy was a popular medieval pet form of David and was often bestowed in-dependently from the original name. Short: Dave. 
Davis is a fresh way to say David. Some sources define it as son of David , but we see it as a surname spin on the original. While David is an everyman name, Davis has some creative edge -- and still gets you to the classic guy nickname Dave. Davis can be a good way to name a boy after grandpa David; Davies, Davison or Davidson will also do the trick. In the TV show One Tree Hill, the Sophie Bush character gives one of her twins her maiden name of Davis. Davis Guggenheim is an Oscar-winning director and documentarian, married to Elisabeth Shue
Etymology & Historical Origin-Davis. Davis is the transferred use of a patronymic English surname from the given name David (by way of the pet form Davy). David comes from the Hebrew Dodaveha meaning ‘beloved of Jehovah’