Typhoid fever (also known as Enteric fever) is caused by a strain of Salmonella bacteria (Salmonellae typhi) when they are spread through the body by the white blood cells t … hat attempted to destroy them.   Salmonella are ingested from contaminated food or water and enter the body through the intestinal tract. 
Typhoid fever is an acute illness associated with fever caused by the Salmonella typhi bacteria. It can also be caused by Salmonella paratyphi, a related bacterium that usually causes a less severe illness. The bacteria are deposited in water or food by a human carrier and are then spread to other people in the area.
Typhoid fever ultimately is caused by the Salmonella typhi bacteria, and it is most commonly transmitted through the fecal-oral route. That is, patients with typhoid can contaminate the water supply with their stool, where the bacteria flourish. Typhoid fever is an infectious disease caused by the bacteria Salmonella typhi. It is also known as enteric fever, or commonly just typhoid. Typhoid fever and paratyphoid fever are clinically indistinguishable diseases, collectively called enteric fever
Typhoid fever is caused by virulent bacteria called Salmonella typhi (S. typhi). Although they're related, S. typhi and the bacteria responsible for salmonellosis, another serious intestinal infection, aren't the same. 
Typhoid fever is caused by the bacteria salmonella typhi; it is a gram-negative, short bacillus (rod-shape), with peritrichous flagella (many projecting in all directions). I … t is a type of salmonella bacteria. Typhoid belongs to the family Enterobacteriaceae, the same as E. coli. Typhoid fever-also known simply as typhoid-is  a common worldwide bacterial disease transmitted by the ingestion  of food or water contaminated with the feces  of an in … fected person, which contain the bacterium Salmonella enterica  subsp. enterica, serovar Typhi.
Get help from a doctor now ›. Typhoid fever: Is the name of the disease. It is caused by salmonella typhi, actually salmonella enterica serotype typhi. The name means typhus-like. The word typhus comes from the greek for cloudy, referring to the altered mental status that can occur, so-called coma vigil. ...Read mor
Typhoid (typhoid fever) is a serious disease. It is caused by bacteria called Salmonella Typhi. Typhoid causes a high fever, fatigue, weakness, stomach pains, headache, loss of appetite, and sometimes a rash. If it is not treated, it can kill up to 30% of people who get it. Some people who get typhoid become carriers, who can spread the disease to others.
Knowledge center. Typhoid fever is an infectious disease caused by the bacteria Salmonella typhi. It is also known as enteric fever, or commonly just typhoid. Typhoid fever and paratyphoid fever are clinically indistinguishable diseases, collectively called enteric fev
Typhoid fever is a type of enteric fever along with paratyphoid fever. The cause is the bacterium Salmonella typhi, also known as Salmonella enterica serotype typhi, growing in the intestines and blood. Typhoid is spread by eating or drinking food or water contaminated with the feces of an infected person. Risk factors include poor sanitation and poor hygiene. 