Women who are pregnant commonly have low hemoglobin counts. A low hemoglobin level count is generally defined as less than 13.5 grams of hemoglobin per deciliter (135 grams per liter) of blood for men and less than 12 grams per deciliter (120 grams per liter) for women. In children, the definition varies with age and sex. Anemia-A term that means less than normal levels of red blood cells or hemoglobin in the blood. The term is derived from the Greek term anaimia, meaning lack of blood. Symptoms of anemia often include: 1  Fainting. 2  Pale skin. 3  Weakness. 4  Chest pain. 5  Palpitations. 6  Shortness of breath. 7  Restless legs syndrome.
Hemoglobin is the protein molecule in red blood cells that carries oxygen from the lungs to the body's tissues and returns carbon dioxide from the tissues back to the lungs. Hemoglobin is made up of four protein molecules (globulin chains) that are connected together. Embedded within the heme molecule is iron that is vital in transporting oxygen and carbon dioxide in our blood. The iron contained in hemoglobin is also responsible for the red color of blood. Hemoglobin also plays an important role in maintaining the shape of the red blood cells.
The normal adult hemoglobin (Hbg) molecule contains two alpha-globulin chains and two beta-globulin chains. In fetuses and infants, beta chains are not common and the hemoglobin molecule is made up of two alpha chains and two gamma chains. Embedded within the heme molecule is iron that is vital in transporting oxygen and carbon dioxide in our blood. The iron contained in hemoglobin is also responsible for the red color of blood. Hemoglobin also plays an important role in maintaining the shape of the red blood cells.
However, the National Institutes of Health offers the following general, accepted range for normal hemoglobin levels in children and adults: Normal range for adults: Male: 13.8 to 17.2 grams per deciliter (g/dL). Female: 12.1 to 15.1 g/dL. Normal range for children: Newborn: 14 to 24 g/dL. Infant: 9.5 to 13 g/dL. The normal hemoglobin levels for adults according to Mayo Clinic are similar, with the ranges slightly broader by a few points. For children, the ranges vary with age and sex. Hemoglobin transports oxygen from the lungs into the body’s cells and transports carbon dioxide out
Normal hemoglobin values are related to the person's age and sex. Normal values may vary slightly between test systems, and which groups of doctors have determined normal values for their group of patients; however, the value ranges are close (vary by about 0.5 g/dl) for almost every group. An example of normal ranges that is widely accepted by Family Practice physicians is as follows: 1  Birth: 13.5 to 24.0 g/dl (mean 16.5 g/dl). 2  Age 1-2 months: 10.0 to 18.0 g/dl (mean 11.2 g/dl). 3  Age 2-6 months: 9.5 to 14.0 g/dl (mean 12.6 g/dl).
A. The hemoglobin level is expressed as the amount of hemoglobin in grams (gm) per deciliter (dL) of whole blood, a deciliter being 100 milliliters. The normal ranges for hemoglobin depend on the age and, beginning in adolescence, the gender of the person. The normal ranges are: 1  Newborns: 17-22 gm/dL. 
Iron-An essential element for blood production. About 70 percent of the body's iron is found in the red blood cells of blood called hemoglobin and in muscle cells called myoglobin. Anemia-A term that means less than normal levels of red blood cells or hemoglobin in the blood. The term is derived from the Greek term anaimia, meaning lack of blood. Symptoms of anemia often include: 1  Fainting. 2  Pale skin. 3  Weakness. 4  Chest pain. 5  Palpitations. 6  Shortness of breath. 7  Restless legs syndrome.
For people without diabetes, the normal range for the hemoglobin A1c test is between 4% and 5.6%. Hemoglobin A1c levels between 5.7% and 6.4% indicate increased risk of diabetes, and levels of 6.5% or higher indicate diabetes.
The normal range for hemoglobin is: 1  For men, 13.5 to 17.5 grams per deciliter. 2  For women, 12.0 to 15.5 grams per deciliter. If your hemoglobin level is lower than normal, you have anemia. There are many forms of anemia, each with different causes, which can include: 1  Iron deficiency. 2  Vitamin B-12 deficiency. 3  Folate deficiency. 4  Bleeding. 5  Cancers that affect the bone marrow, such as leukemia. 6  Kidney disease. 7  Liver disease