Aphrodite and Adonis, Attic red-figure aryballos-shaped lekythos by Aison, ca. 410 BC, Louvre. Adonis (/əˈdɒnɪs, əˈdoʊnɪs/ ; Greek: ἄδωνις), in Greek mythology, is a central figure in various mystery religions. The most widely accepted version is recounted in Ovid 's Metamorphoses, where Adonis is the son of Myrrha and her father Cinyras. Myrrha turned into a myrrh tree and Lucina helped the tree to give birth to Adonis.
Adonis. by Morgan Upright. Adonis is a complex figure, for the outlines of his tale were fully as a part of the sub-Olympian Greek mythology by Greek and Roman authors, and yet he also retains many deep associations with his Semitic origins. The name Adonis is a variation of the Semitic word  Adonai , which means lord, and which is also one of the names used to refer to YHWH in the Old Testament. At the beginning of his appearance in Greek myth, there is some confusion as to his parentage and his birth.
The dispute between the two goddesses, in one version, was settled by Zeus; in others it was settled by Calliope on Zeus' behalf. The decision was that Adonis was to spend one-third of every year with each goddess and the last third wherever he chose. He always chose to spend two-thirds of the year with Aphrodite. The name Adonis is a variation of the Semitic word  Adonai , which means lord, and which is also one of the names used to refer to YHWH in the Old Testament. At the beginning of his appearance in Greek myth, there is some confusion as to his parentage and his birth.
Adonis. Adonis (ədōˈnĭs, ədŏnˈĭs) [ key ], in Greek mythology, beautiful youth beloved by Aphrodite and Persephone. He was born of the incestuous union of Myrrha (or Smyrna) and Cinyras, king of Cyprus. Aphrodite left Adonis in the care of Persephone, who raised him and made him her lover.
Persephone was also taken by Adonis' beauty and refused to give him back to Aphrodite. The dispute between the two goddesses was settled by Zeus (or by Calliope on Zeus' behalf): Adonis was to spend one-third of every year with each goddess and the last third wherever he chose. The most widely accepted version is recounted in Ovid 's Metamorphoses, where Adonis is the son of Myrrha and her father Cinyras. Myrrha turned into a myrrh tree and Lucina helped the tree to give birth to Adonis.
Greek Meaning: The name Adonis is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Adonis is: Handsome; a lord. Greek mythology; a youth beloved of Aphrodite. American Meaning: The name Adonis is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Adonis is: Handsome; a lord. 
The Greek Adonis. The Greek Adonis was a man of unusual beauty for whom the goddesses fought. As usual, there are several versions about the birth of the Greek Adonis. In one of them, he was the son of Kinyras and Metharme. In another one, his parents were Phoenix (the king from whose name the Phenician people took its name) and Aephesiboea. 
From Greek and Roman mythology, Adonis was a son of Cinyras, the king of Cyprus, and his daughter Myrrha. Meanings and history of the name Adonis : | Edit. Martin Bernal, a historian postulates that the name Adonis has origins in Ancient African Language. According to him it means, God's Blessing. It is also is derived from the Hebrew word Adoni, meaning Lord or Ruler.
Origin of the name Adonis: From Greek and Roman mythology, Adonis was a son of Cinyras, the king of Cyprus, and his daughter Myrrha. After Myrrha was transformed into a tree, Adonis was given to Persephone (Proserpina) to care for. Meanings and history of the name Adonis : | Edit. Martin Bernal, a historian postulates that the name Adonis has origins in Ancient African Language. According to him it means, God's Blessing. It is also is derived from the Hebrew word Adoni, meaning Lord or Ruler.