The average costs of a dog DNA test are between $40 and $100. These are the fees charged if the DNA test is performed at a vet clinic.
The dog DNA test can be used to establish the breed of the dog and to find the breeds of the parents, if these are not identified. DNA tests may be required at dog shows, because the test will confirm whether the dog is purebred or not. For instance, the American Kennel Club requires a DNA test.
Priced from $60 and up, the tests are available online and at many pet supply retail stores. All of the kits test DNA via a cheek swab sampling, except for the most expensive, Mars Veterinary’s Wisdom Panel Professional, which requires a blood test at a veterinarian’s office (call your local veterinarian for pricing). Not surprisingly, like most products, not all dog breed DNA tests are created equal.
The DNA test performed at a vet clinic can be more than 90 percent accurate in determining the heritage of the dog. However, if the dog is not of an identifiable breed (there are more than 100 identifiable breeds to date) the test may only give a relative response.
1 A dog DNA test kit is also available that allows dog owners to do the actual testing themselves. 2  A kit is usually priced from $60 to over a hundred dollars, depending on the brand. 3  A particular kit, The Wisdom Panel™ Insights, is sold at PetStreetMall.com and costs $92.99 with free shipping.
Average Costs. The average costs of a dog DNA test are between $40 and $100. These are the fees charged if the DNA test is performed at a vet clinic. There are also DNA test kits for at home use, which can cost between $35 and $70, but some shipping fees will be extra. The costs of the canine DNA tests may vary according to a number of factors such as:
A dog DNA test is a common thing for dog enthusiasts who not only want to learn the different breed mixes in their dogs, but also to gain insights into the unique genetic background of their precious canine companions. Serious dog owners know the importance of knowing the exact breed of dogs they have.
1 An article at WiseGeek.com revealed that a comprehensive dog DNA test costs around $120 to $150. 2  The exact price is actually determined by the number of AKC (American Kennel Club) recognized breeds the test is capable of identifying.