Thawed chicken should be cooked as soon as possible. If not using the chicken immediately, store in the refrigerator and use within 24 hours of thawing. Thaw frozen chicken using one of three methods: in the refrigerator; in a cold water bath, changing the water every 30 minutes; or in the microwave. If using one of the last two quick-thaw methods, cook the chicken immediately. Depending upon the packaging of the chicken, how it was handled in-transit, and the temperature in the refrigerator, the chicken could last longer. For example, some refrigerators have a special meat storage drawer where the temperature is just under 32°F which will allow more shelf life.
How long will chicken stock last in the freezer. In an air-tight container, your homemade chicken stock should last for 6 months in the back of a refrigerator freezer or up to 12 months in a deep freezer. After that, it will begin to lose its flavor but does not pose a health-risk
(Also) I feel like I’m limited to what I can do with the chicken once its cooked. Thanks for your help, SS. Dear SS: According to Foodsafety.gov, uncooked poultry is safe in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, and safe in the freezer for 9 months (for pieces) and up to 12 months for whole chickens or turkey. Cooked poultry is safe refrigerated for 3-4 days. You can also freeze your cooked breaded chicken cutlets (tightly wrapped in foil or saran wrap and place in freezer bags) for 1-3 months. Just pull it out the night before you want to have it and thaw in the fridge. 
1 How long does raw chicken last after the sell-by date? 2  After chicken is purchased, it may be refrigerated for 1 to 2 days — the sell-by date on the package may expire during that storage period, but the chicken will remain safe to use after the sell by date if it has been properly stored. 1
1 How long does raw chicken last after being frozen and thawed? 2  Chicken that has been defrosted in the fridge can be kept for an additional 1 to 2 days in the refrigerator before cooking; chicken that was thawed in the microwave or in cold water should be cooked immediately. 1 After chicken is purchased, it may be refrigerated for 1 to 2 days — the sell-by date on the package may expire during that storage period, but the chicken will remain safe to use after the sell by date if it has been properly stored.
ipsedixit Sep 24, 2011 12:23 PM. I've kept raw chicken in the fridge up to 5 days with no problems, if not longer. Bear in mind that the FDA recommendations for food storage -- chicken included -- are generally for the lowest common denominator. 
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. If not using the chicken immediately, store in the refrigerator and use within 24 hours of thawing. Thaw frozen chicken using one of three methods: in the refrigerator; in a cold water bath, changing the water every 30 minutes; or in the microwave.
Cooked chicken could be good up to 4 days. Raw chicken is best used within 1 or 2 days. You should store the chicken in the coldest part of the refrigerator for best shelf life or put it in freezer if not used within that time frame. Depending upon the packaging of the chicken, how it was handled in-transit, and the temperature in the refrigerator, the chicken could last longer. For example, some refrigerators have a special meat storage drawer where the temperature is just under 32°F which will allow more shelf life.
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. Depending upon the packaging of the chicken, how it was handled in-transit, and the temperature in the refrigerator, the chicken could last longer. For example, some refrigerators have a special meat storage drawer where the temperature is just under 32°F which will allow more shelf life.
I have to say that I have kept chicken in the fridge for longer than 2 days and not died. Some even have best before dates 3-4 days in. The quality definitely suffers, and I'm sure there's some risk, but it's probably low. It's a better practice to keep thing in freezer if you don't cook within a day, but some fridge like mine has a cooler box that has lower than usual temp that I may leave my uncooked meat a little bit longer, but 3 days are the max.