Symbiosis with the Jaguar: A symbiotic relationship that the jaguar has is with the entire jungle. It is a keystone predator, with a diet of up to 87 species. The jaguar keeps down the population of the other species in the forest by being the top predator. It has a Mutualism relationship with the tropical rainforest. The jaguar feeds, and the tropical rainforests's population is kept normal.
The role that a keystone species plays in its ecosystem is analogous to the role of a keystone in an arch. While the keystone is under the least pressure of any of the stones in an arch, the arch still collapses without it. Similarly, an ecosystem may experience a dramatic shift if a keystone species is removed, even though that species was a small part of the ecosystem by measures of biomass or productivity. It became a popular concept in conservation biology. The jaguar, whose numbers in Central and South America have been classified as near threatened, acts as a keystone predator by its widely varied diet, helping to balance the mammalian jungle ecosystem with its consumption of 87 different species of prey. The gray wolf is another known keystone species as is the lion.
The jaguar is at the top of the food chain so is an apex predator. It is also a keystone species, one of those organisms which have a major role in maintaining the status quo of an ecosystem. It feeds on a vast range of prey and regulates the populations of these native animals, creating a balanced environment. As well as being a keystone species, the jaguar is an 'umbrella species' meaning that if it is protected, its broad home range and habitat needs will automatically ensure the protection of other species which share that range and those habitats. The jaguar is the national animal of Guyana and Brazil. Advertisement.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. the jaguar is a keystone species by preying on animals that eat smaller animals. without the jaguar, many species would be extinct and a few would be dominant. this is why we must save the beautiful creature. They are critical factors in ecological processes such as … energy flow and nutrient cycling.If we can identify a keystone species and quantify its impact on its community then we can usually understand how the community functions as a whole.
Conservation. As well as being a keystone species, the jaguar is an 'umbrella species' meaning that if it is protected, its broad home range and habitat needs will automatically ensure the protection of other species which share that range and those habitats. The jaguar is the national animal of Guyana and Brazil. Advertisement.
Jaguars are considered an apex predator and a keystone species. As a top predator and keystone species, jaguars play a crucial role in the ecosystem. Without the jaguar, herbivorous prey animals would decimate the plants of their ecosystem. Though few in numbers, jaguars prevent the ecosystem from collapsing. 
A keystone species is one that other lifeforms in an ecosystem  depend on. Mosquitoes are a keystone species because they are  extremely low on the food chain, and if they w … ere removed from an  ecosystem, the food supply would be interrupted. They are critical factors in ecological processes such as … energy flow and nutrient cycling.If we can identify a keystone species and quantify its impact on its community then we can usually understand how the community functions as a whole.
A keystone species is one that plays a unique and crucial role in the way an ecosystem functions. It has a disproportionally large effect on its environment relative to is abundance. There are two hallmarks of a keystone species. First, the presence of a keystone species is crucial in maintaining the integrity of its ecosystem through species diversity and organization. Second, these species are relatively more important in structuring their ecosystem when compared to most other species of equal biomass found within their community.
The jaguar (/ˈdʒaeɡjuːər, ˈdʒæɡjuːər, ˈdʒaeɡjʊər/ ˈdʒæɡjʊər /ˈdʒaeɡjuːɑr/), ˈdʒæɡjuːɑr or, ˈdʒaeɡwɑr ˈdʒæɡwɑr panthera onca, is a big cat A feline, in the panthera genus and Is the only extant panthera Species. Native to the americas the-jaguar is the third largest feline after the, tiger and the lion and The. largest in the americas The jaguar is the third-largest feline after the tiger and the lion, and the largest in the Americas. The jaguar's present range extends from Southwestern United States and Mexico across much of Central America and south to Paraguay and northern Argentina.