Similar to brewer’s yeast in taste and texture, but nutritional yeast is deactivated—meaning it won’t make your bread rise. It has a bevvy of nutritional benefits. For vegans, the main boost comes by way of B12—an essential nutrient for health (which is not usually inherent to the yeast, but added for vegans). 
Nutritional yeast, affectionately called nooch by those who are in the know, is a magical substance found in the bulk or supplement section of most health food stores. The name doesn't sound too appealing, but nutritional yeast is just an inactive yeast made from sugar cane and beet molasses. 
It is popular with vegans and vegetarians and may be used as an ingredient in recipes or as a condiment. While it contains trace amounts of several Vitamins and minerals, it is only a significant source of some B-complex vitamins. Sometimes nutritional yeast is fortified with vitamin B12. Nutritional yeast has a strong flavor that is described as nutty, cheesy, or creamy, which makes it popular as an ingredient in cheese substitutes. It is often used by vegans in place of cheese. Another popular use is as a topping for popcorn. In Australia, it is sometimes sold as savoury yeast flakes.. In New Zealand, it has long been known as Brufax. In the United States it is sometimes referred to as nooch (also spelled nuech), nüch or, yeshi An ethiopian name meaning for a. thousand
Nutritional yeast is a deactivated yeast, often a strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which is sold commercially as a food product. Another popular use is as a topping for popcorn. In Australia, it is sometimes sold as savoury yeast flakes.. In New Zealand, it has long been known as Brufax. In the United States it is sometimes referred to as nooch (also spelled nuech), nüch or, yeshi An ethiopian name meaning for a. thousand
Because nutritional yeast is often used by vegans, who need to supplement their diets with vitamin B12, there has been confusion about the source of the B 12 in nutritional yeast. Yeast cannot produce B 12, which is only naturally produced by bacteria. Another popular use is as a topping for popcorn. In Australia, it is sometimes sold as savoury yeast flakes.. In New Zealand, it has long been known as Brufax. In the United States it is sometimes referred to as nooch (also spelled nuech), nüch or, yeshi An ethiopian name meaning for a. thousand
Nutritional yeast doesn't taste like yeast (you know, that strong, beer-like flavor). It comes in both powdered and flaked forms, and tastes nutty, cheesy and delightfully creamy. Many vegans use it as a cheese flavoring substitute, adding it to gravies, sauces, and mac n' cheese dishes. While that all sounds good, you might be wondering what nutritional yeast is. It's essentially just yeast (the kind that helps bread rise) that has been deactivated. Once the yeast has grown, it is killed (deactived) by heat and then crumbled into flake or powdered form.
Yeast is a living microscopic organism which converts sugar or starch into alcohol and carbon dioxide, which is why beer brewers, wine makers and bread bakers like it. Baker's yeast is what we use most often for leavening when cooking. Baker's yeast is either active dry yeast (where the yeast is alive but inactive due to lack of moisture) or compressed fresh yeast (where the yeast is alive and extremely perishable as a result). Brewer's yeast is a non-leavening yeast used in brewing beer and can be eaten as a food supplement for its healthful properties (as you would wheat germ), unlike baker's yeast which is used for leavening. Brewer's years has a bitter hops flavor. Nutritional yeast is similar to brewer's yeast, but not as bitter because it is grown on molasses. You should not use a live yeast (i.e. baking yeast) as a food supplement because it continues to grow in the intestine and uses up vitamin B instead of replenishing it
Cooking With Spices: Nutritional Yeast. A deactivated yeast that is sold as a food product, nutritional yeast usually comes in the form of flakes or powder. Often from a strain of yeast called Saccharomyces cerevisiae, it has a strong, savory flavor that is variously described as cheesy, nutty and tangy. It is popular with vegans as a substitute for cheese in recipes. Nutritional yeast is produced by culturing yeast for several days in a nutrient growth medium (often glucose from beet molasses or sugarcane) and then deactivating it with heat.