Heart disease describes a range of conditions that affect your heart. Diseases under the heart disease umbrella include blood vessel diseases, such as coronary artery disease; heart rhythm problems (arrhythmias); and heart defects you're born with (congenital heart defects), among others.
Critical congenital heart disease (CCHD) is a term that refers to a group of serious heart defects that are present from birth. These abnormalities result from problems with the formation of one or more parts of the heart during the early stages of embryonic development.
Types of Inherited Heart Disease. There are different types of inherited heart diseases. Identifying these conditions early can lead to better care and improved health over time. 1  Cardiomyopathies are diseases that affect the physical structure of the heart and interfere with its ability to pump blood.
Heart disease is often a family matter. There are certain features of a family history that may be signs of a genetic heart disorder. Some of these include: 1  Sudden cardiac death, unexplained death at a young age, or death by an unexplained accident or drowning. 2  Heart failure at a young age (under 50).
The term heart disease is often used interchangeably with the term cardiovascular disease.. Cardiovascular disease generally refers to conditions that involve narrowed or blocked blood vessels that can lead to a heart attack, chest pain (angina) or stroke.
1 Coronoary artery disease is the most common cause of heart disease and a leading cause of death in the United States. 2  Coronary artery disease is caused by plaque buildup, plaque rupture or a clot that blocks the coronary arteries, causing a lack of oxygen to the heart, preventing it from functioning effectively.
Most genetic heart conditions are inherited in an autosomal dominant pattern. Autosomal means that both men and women are equally affected. Dominant means that although there are 2 copies of each gene, a mutation in just 1 copy is enough to cause disease.