Step 3. Pull the skin tag away from your skin with your thumb and index finger on your left hand. Tie the thread tightly around the neck, or stalk, of the skin tag. You may need to wrap it around the neck more than once before tying to ensure the thread is secure and does not slip off. You can remove a skin tag that is unsightly or becomes irritated due to friction or shaving by tying it off with thread to disrupt its blood supply.
It will bleed, so be prepared with clean gauze bandages. 2. Tie the skin tag if you can wait a bit for the skin tag to fall off. Using the clean string, thread, or dental floss, tie around the base of the stalk as tightly as possible and as close to the skin as you can. This will be a bit painful at first, but after a few minutes your dog will not feel it anymore. Sterilize a piece of string or floss if you want to tie off the skin tag instead. You can use any shallow plastic pan (or even a lunch box!) for this purpose. Place 250 milliliters of water in the pan, plus 10 milliliters of 10% povidone-iodine.
It is possible to remove a skin tag by tying a piece of thread or dental floss around it. Basically, by tying some kind of string around the tag you cut off its blood supply. 1.) Tie a piece of thread or dental floss around the skin tag as close to your regular skin as possible. Basically, you want to tie the thread at the bottom of the skin tag's base. 2.) It needs to be tied tight in order to cut off the blood flow to the skin tag
If you are bothered by unsightly skin tags, one of the simplest treatments is to remove them with thread or dental floss, according to dermatologists at the Skin Center website. Skin tags are tiny benign skin lesions found in areas around the neck, groin and armpit. They can be caused by a virus; a hormonal imbalance; or the friction of something rubbing against your skin, such as a piece of jewelry or a car seat belt.
Your physician may recommend removing the skin tag using a ligation technique (tying the base of the tag with suturing thread, for example, to cut off the circulation and allow the tag to dry up and fall off), cryotherapy to freeze it off, electrical cauterization, or surgical removal with scissors or a scalpel. 
Skin tags can be irritating and unattractive, especially when they seem to pop up continuously. Making frequent trips to a physician to remove skin tags can be just as irritating. You can remove skin tags at home, however, and there are several ways that you can do it. No matter which method is used, if you notice a possible infection in the area where a skin tag was removed, be sure to consult a dermatologist or your usual medical doctor about the problem. 
Place one end of the string at the base of the skin tag. Let about a half-inch stick out so you can tie the two ends together in a following step. Wrap the string around the skin tag two to five times. Wrap it tight enough so that it cannot slip off the tag on its own. Tie the two ends of the string together. 
3.) Once the skin tag is properly tied off, it will generally fall off within a week. 4.) If your skin tag doesn't fall off, you either a.) haven't tied the string tight enough around the base; or b.) the base of your skin tag is too large to properly cut off the blood flow with a thread. If this method doesn't work, try using a natural skin tag remover. 1.) Tie a piece of thread or dental floss around the skin tag as close to your regular skin as possible. Basically, you want to tie the thread at the bottom of the skin tag's base. 2.) It needs to be tied tight in order to cut off the blood flow to the skin tag