Not to be confused with Embolism. A thrombus, or colloquially a blood clot, is the final product of the blood coagulation step in hemostasis. There are two components to a thrombus: aggregated platelets that form a platelet plug, and a mesh of cross-linked fibrin protein. A thrombus is a healthy response to injury intended to prevent bleeding, but can be harmful in thrombosis, when clots obstruct blood flow through healthy blood vessels. Mural thrombi are thrombi that adhere to the wall of a blood vessel.
Blood Clots. Blood clotting, or coagulation, is an important process that prevents excessive bleeding when a blood vessel is injured. Platelets (a type of blood cell) and proteins in your plasma (the liquid part of blood) work together to stop the bleeding by forming a clot over the injury. An abnormal clot that forms in a vein may restrict the return of blood to the heart and can result in pain and swelling as the blood gathers behind the clot. Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a type of clot that forms in a major vein of the leg or, less commonly, in the arms, pelvis, or other large veins in the body.
Symptoms of a blood clot in the venous system can include swelling of the affected area, warmth, redness, and pain. Venous blood clots occur most commonly in the arms and legs. Symptoms of an arterial blood clot result from a lack of or decrease in oxygen delivery to the tissues supplied by the involved artery. 
Thrombus. A blood clot that forms on the wall of a blood vessel or in the heart when blood platelets, proteins, and cells stick together. A thrombus may block the flow of blood. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: NIH-National Cancer Institute). Related terms: Thombotic, Thrombi. 
Deep vein thrombosis (throm-BO-sis), or DVT, is a blood clot that forms in a vein deep in the body. Blood clots occur when blood thickens and clumps together. Most deep vein blood clots occur in the lower leg or thigh. They also can occur in other parts of the body. A blood clot in a deep vein can break off and travel through the bloodstream. The loose clot is called an embolus (EM-bo-lus). It can travel to an artery in the lungs and block blood flow. This condition is called pulmonary embolism (PULL-mun-ary EM-bo-lizm), or PE
Blood clots are not a normal condition, but they occur when blood coagulates or hardens. They typically form after the body is injured to prevent excessive bleeding. Also called a thrombus, it is made when blood cells lump together with fibrin, a stretchy, thread-like protein. Deep venous thrombosis (DVT) is a condition in which blood clot develops in a vein in the lower part of the body, such as the pelvis, thighs, or lower legs. This can seriously restrict the blood flow in the limb and may cause swelling and redness, although some people do not experience any systems.
Blood clot facts. 1  A blood clot is a mass formed by platelets and fibrin in the blood to stop bleeding. 2  There are a variety of risk factors and illness that can lead to blood clot formation. 3  Causes of blood clots may include: 4  certain heart conditions, 5  pregnancy, 6  prolonged immobility, 7  smoking, 8  certain medications, 1 A blood clot is a mass formed by platelets and fibrin in the blood to stop bleeding. 2  There are a variety of risk factors and illness that can lead to blood clot formation. 3  Causes of blood clots may include: 4  certain heart conditions, 5  pregnancy, 6  prolonged immobility, 7  smoking, 8  certain medications, 9  surgery, and.
A blood clot, also known as a thrombus, is the result of several blood cells lumping together with fibrin. Blood clots, which form when blood cells stick together, can obstruct blood flow leading to a serious medical emergency. Going on long airplane flights may lead to blood clots. Deep venous thrombosis (DVT) is a condition in which blood clot develops in a vein in the lower part of the body, such as the pelvis, thighs, or lower legs. This can seriously restrict the blood flow in the limb and may cause swelling and redness, although some people do not experience any systems.