Fetal fibronectin (fFN) is used to test pregnant women who are between 22 weeks and 35 weeks of gestation and are having symptoms of premature labor. The test helps predict the likelihood of premature delivery. Many pregnant women experience symptoms that suggest preterm labor.
Fetal fibronectin leaks into the vagina if a preterm delivery is likely to occur and can be measured in a screening test. When the fFN test is positive, it is an inconclusive result. A positive result can indicate that a woman will go into preterm labor soon, but she may not go into labor for weeks.
Fetal fibronectin testing is sometimes done when preterm labor symptoms are present. When the fetal fibronectin test is negative, it is unlikely that you are having preterm labor. But even if the test is positive, it does not mean for sure
fFN can often be detected before other symptoms of preterm labor, such as contractions and changes in cervical length. Doctors may use a combination of signs and symptoms when deciding the best course of action to take in relation to your pregnancy.
The fFN test is ordered when a woman is 22 weeks to 35 weeks pregnant and has symptoms of preterm labor. These may include uterine contractions, a change in vaginal discharge, backache, abdominal discomfort, pelvic pressure, and/or cramping.
The fetal fibronectin (fFN) test can't tell you for sure that you are in labor, but it can tell you that you're not. This is useful because in the early stages of preterm labor, it's very difficult to tell if a woman really is in labor based on her symptoms and a pelvic exam.
Fetal fibronectin (fFN) is a fibronectin protein produced by fetal cells. It is found at the interface of the chorion and the decidua (between the fetal sac and the uterine lining). It can be thought of as an adhesive or biological glue that binds the fetal sac to the uterine lining.
Clinical Significance. Fetal fibronectin is a protein that performs two roles during pregnancy. It is produced by the placenta and acts as the glue that attaches the placenta to the uterine wall. In late pregnancy, it acts as a lubricant, aiding in the passage of the newborn through the vaginal canal.