Connect a laptop to a TV via HDMI. 1. Plug in the HDMI cable to the HDMI port on the back of the TV, taking note of which port you have plugged in to. Then using your TV remote or the buttons on the chassis scroll through the 'Inputs' until you get to that port. The screen should be blank. 2. Watch the latest HD content on your HDTV via your PC. Here's you how to use an HDMI cable to connect your Windows laptop to an HDTV so you can watch anything you can view on your laptop on your big HD screen. We'll also show you how to control your HD TV from your PC.
Once you have the HDMI wire plugged into both your PC and HDTV, use the INPUT button on the TV (either on the remote or on the top of the TV itself) to select the matching input. More likely than not, it’ll be blank. Don’t worry. To get started, you need a computer that has an HDMI (which stands for “high definition multimedia interface”, if you’re curious) port, an HDMI cable, and an HDTV that you can use to plug into and watch.
1 Adapters are available to convert DVI to HDMI or VGA to composite video. 2  You can also get an adapter cable to connect your computer's USB port to your TV's HDMI port if your laptop has no HDMI port. 3  Converters, especially analog ones, typically result in a loss of quality, so avoid them if possible. 1 Your laptop's audio output is a 3.5-mm jack marked with a headset icon. 2  You can connect an audio cable from here to your TV's audio input if it has one or to external speakers if it doesn't. 3  When connecting the audio cable, make sure that you connect it to audio ports that match your video input.
Connect a laptop to a TV via HDMI. 1. Plug in the HDMI cable to the HDMI port on the back of the TV, taking note of which port you have plugged in to. Then using your TV remote or the buttons on the chassis scroll through the 'Inputs' until you get to that port. The screen should be blank. You can then enable to full screen option so that the content fills the whole of your TV, and use the controls on your laptop to dictate playback just as you normally would. This story, How to plug in a laptop to a TV via HDMI was originally published by PC Advisor (UK) .
If your laptop has an HDMI output,you'll want to purchase an HDMI cable. Simply plug the HDMI cable directly into your TV. Since an HDMI cable carries both an audio and visual signal, you won't need any additional cables. 
Comments. Here's you how to use an HDMI cable to connect your Windows laptop to an HDTV so you can watch anything you can view on your laptop on your big HD screen. We'll also show you how to control your HD TV from your PC. You can then enable to full screen option so that the content fills the whole of your TV, and use the controls on your laptop to dictate playback just as you normally would. This story, How to plug in a laptop to a TV via HDMI was originally published by PC Advisor (UK) .
I’ll show you how to use a simple HDMI* cable to connect your laptop to an HDTV, then tweak Windows* so you can watch anything you’d like on that big screen, even while controlling it all from your PC laptop or desktop computer. Once you have the HDMI wire plugged into both your PC and HDTV, use the INPUT button on the TV (either on the remote or on the top of the TV itself) to select the matching input. More likely than not, it’ll be blank