Sea salt is less refined than table salt. Despite the fancy packaging, there's not much nutritional difference between sea salt and regular table salt. Both are about 40 percent sodium, providing 2,300 milligrams of sodium per teaspoon.
Salt can be refined to create different versions such as pickling salt, rock salt, iodized salt and seasoned salt. Himalayan salt is a type of rock salt from Pakistan. It may have a reddish or pink colour due to iron in the crystals. Sea salt, available in fine or coarse crystals, is distilled from ocean water.
(28%) members think rock and sea salts are healthier than table salt.It is understood that many people are switching to more expensive and premium forms of salt, such as sea salt and rock salt, because they believe that they
1 The most harmful chemical in table salt is the same as in sea salt: sodium chloride.  2 Sea salt is healthier because it's unprocessed: 3  While it's generally true that unprocessed foods are much better for you, it's not in this case. 4  Sea salt, in spite of its raw state, still raises your blood pressure.
In my experience, the difference between various salts has little to do with flavor, once you've moved beyond iodized table salt and bulk kosher salt, and assuming we aren't talking about salts that are flavored by additions like herbs or smoke during processing.
According to the Mayo Clinic, both table salt and sea salt “have the same basic nutritional value, despite the fact that sea salt is often marketed as a more natural and healthy alternative.” They contain equal amounts of sodium chloride, what we usually refer to as simply sodium, by weight.
One gram of sea salt and one gram of table salt have the same amount of sodium. Sea salt, as its name suggests, comes from the sea. It’s what is left behind after the seawater evaporates. It can contain small amounts of whatever minerals might have also been in the water.
Sea salt and table salt have the same basic nutritional value, despite the fact that sea salt is often promoted as being healthier. Sea salt and table salt contain comparable amounts of sodium by weight. Whichever type of salt you enjoy, do so in moderation.