Las Vegas, NV Salary. Las Vegas, NV average salary is $66,002, median salary is $56,200 with a salary range from $20,155 to $900,000. Las Vegas, NV salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Las Vegas, NV salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly.
A salary report released by the US Department of Labor’s Bureau of Labor Statistics indicated that there were 1,640 paralegals working in Nevada during 2011, most of which were employed in Las Vegas and Paradise. The average salary of these paralegals was $51,650 with the top ten percent earning $66,000. Those in the Reno and Sparks areas were noted to be the highest paid with those in the 90th percentile averaging $69,310, which was $17,660 higher than the statewide average. 
The average rate for an Entry-Level Dental Assistant in Las Vegas, Nevada is $12.71 per hour. X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare).
Average Real Estate Agent salaries for job postings in Las Vegas, NV are 19% lower than average Real Estate Agent salaries for job postings nationwide. 
Nevada Real Estate Salary. Nevada Real Estate average salary is $44,803, median salary is $43,129 with a salary range from $30,600 to $66,240. Nevada Real Estate salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Nevada Real Estate salary is full-time annual starting salary. Intern, contractor and hourly pay scale vary from regular exempt employee. Compensation depends on work experience, job location, bonus, benefits and other factors.
This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Real Estate Sales Agent in Las Vegas, NV that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Real Estate Sales Agent in Las Vegas are expected to make less than the median. Source: HR Reported data as of September 2015. 
Average Real Estate Agent Salaries. The average salary for real estate agent jobs in Las Vegas, NV is $48,000. Average real estate agent salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term real estate agent anywhere in the job listing
Average Real Estate Agent salaries for job postings in Nevada are 24% lower than average Real Estate Agent salaries for job postings nationwide. 