The human brain is the master control system of the body, weighing about 3 pounds, less than 2% of our body weight. The brain requires 20% of our oxygen and energy supply for the over 100 billion neurons (brain cells). Blood flow of oxygen, sugars, vitamins, minerals, amino acids and fatty acids is essential. Interruption of only 15 seconds can result in unconsciousness- 5 minutes-death. Usually, the brain cells use 50% of all the sugar (glucose) in the blood and the other organs will burn fat. Since the brain is such a small percentage of body weight, with insulin present it must compete with the other organs and muscles which weigh 50 times as much as the brain, for blood sugar (glucose).
During glycolysis, energy is released from the breakdown of sugar, and it's used to make ATP. Specifically, glucose is broken down to pyruvic acid (or pyruvate) in the cell's cytoplasm. Glycolysis is an anaerobic process, as it does not require molecular oxygen. Aerobic metabolism produces 34 ATP per glucose, thus making better use of the remaining glucose. Aerobic metabolism utilizes both the citric acid cycle and oxidative phosphorylation, which make 34 ATP using energy from a single glucose molecule. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member.
First, only two ATP molecules are produced for each molecule of glucose used in the process. Glucose starts out with six carbons in its structure. In chemical energy, carbons are potential energy – in other words, potential ATP. In chemical terms, that is a waste of potential energy. 
Once digested carbohydrates are broken down into glucose and chemical reactions involving glucose then produce ATP. Glucose is always present within the blood as it circulates and provides a readily available source of energy. When needed, glycogen can then be converted back to glucose for energy. Fat. Fats are broken down into free fatty acids (FFA) and triglycerides which can produce ATP through chemical reactions. Fatty acids either circulate in the blood or are stored as triglycerides in adipose tissue and muscle. Fat is a very energy dense nutrient, one gram of it provides nine calories
Three phosphate groups are attached at the 5' carbon atom of the pentose sugar. It is the addition and removal of these phosphate groups that inter-convert ATP, ADP and AMP. When ATP is used in DNA synthesis, the ribose sugar is first converted to deoxyribose by ribonucleotide reductase. ATP was discovered in 1929 by Karl Lohmann, and independently by Cyrus Fiske and Yellapragada Subbarow of Harvard Medical School, but its correct structure was not determined until some years later.
ATP transports chemical energy within cells for metabolism. It is one of the end products of photophosphorylation, cellular respiration, and fermentation and used by enzymes and structural proteins in many cellular processes, including biosynthetic reactions, motility, and cell division. When ATP is used in DNA synthesis, the ribose sugar is first converted to deoxyribose by ribonucleotide reductase. ATP was discovered in 1929 by Karl Lohmann, and independently by Cyrus Fiske and Yellapragada Subbarow of Harvard Medical School, but its correct structure was not determined until some years later.
Ultimately, energy comes from the food we eat. Muscle cells, however, don't use sugar, fats or proteins to contract. Rather, our cells convert the energy stored in those nutrient molecules into energy stored within ATP (adenosine triphosphate). That's the universal energy molecule for living cells. ATP, in turn, provides the energy needed for muscular contraction. Aerobic metabolism produces 34 ATP per glucose, thus making better use of the remaining glucose. Aerobic metabolism utilizes both the citric acid cycle and oxidative phosphorylation, which make 34 ATP using energy from a single glucose molecule. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member.
ATP is therefore continuously recycled in organisms: the human body, which on average contains only 250 grams (8.8 oz) of ATP, turns over its own body weight equivalent in ATP each day. ATP is used as a substrate in signal transduction pathways by kinases that phosphorylate proteins and lipids. When ATP is used in DNA synthesis, the ribose sugar is first converted to deoxyribose by ribonucleotide reductase. ATP was discovered in 1929 by Karl Lohmann, and independently by Cyrus Fiske and Yellapragada Subbarow of Harvard Medical School, but its correct structure was not determined until some years later.