1 Hedgehog bites are not usually very serious if they do not break the skin, and rarely do they even break the skin. 2  Be sure to see a doctor immediately. 3  Home care is not sufficient treatment for any animal bite, let alone one of this severity. Hedgehogs make adorable pets but they have a little habit that makes owning them a little tricky-they bite when they are alarmed or unfamiliar with a situation or a person.
If your hedgehog continues to bite you, you may not know who it will bite next, and they may not be expecting it, which can potentially cause harm to both them, your hedgehog and any one else in the room. No References are currently associated with this article. When this happens the last thing you want to do is leave your hedgehog alone, or it may associate biting to making you go away, and then it can turn into an act of aggression. When this happens just hold your hedgie for about 10-15 minutes and tell it that it is not nice to bite in a very calm voice.
Sadly some hedgehogs will bite out of aggression or to establish territory. If your hedgehog bites your socks while they are on your feet and tries to pull them off, as cute as this may be it is a sign of aggression towards you. This behavior must be stopped or it can lead to biting. One way to stop aggressive is to blow on the face after it happens. When this happens the last thing you want to do is leave your hedgehog alone, or it may associate biting to making you go away, and then it can turn into an act of aggression. When this happens just hold your hedgie for about 10-15 minutes and tell it that it is not nice to bite in a very calm voice.
If your hedgehog did not lick first and you have just handled food or something that smells good some hedgehogs will promptly bite to get a taste without licking. Usually these bites are not hard and most of a lick squeeze before it realizes it is you and not food. When this happens the last thing you want to do is leave your hedgehog alone, or it may associate biting to making you go away, and then it can turn into an act of aggression. When this happens just hold your hedgie for about 10-15 minutes and tell it that it is not nice to bite in a very calm voice.
Yes, they do bite. How hard and how often will depend on the individual hedgehog and how well it is socialized, as well as how good you are at washing that yummy smell off your hands (be sure to use unscented soap). 1 The “I’m unhappy” bite: Because hedgehogs can’t talk, they may use a nip or a bit as a form of communication. 2  This could mean “put me back in my cage, I’m tired”, “quit holding me, I want to run”, “you woke me up and I’m upset”, or a million other things.
1 Firmly yell “NO” when the bite happens – hedgehogs do not like loud noises. 2  Push your fingers against the hedgehog’s mouth as he bites rather than pulling your fingers away. 3  They find this uncomfortable, but it will not hurt them. 4  Blow air at their face to startle them, once or a few times in a row. When you find your hedgehog biting, there are several ways you can gently reprimand him to train him not to bite in the future. 1  Firmly yell “NO” when the bite happens – hedgehogs do not like loud noises. 2  Push your fingers against the hedgehog’s mouth as he bites rather than pulling your fingers away.
Hedgehogs can bite, but they rarely will. Hedgehogs are generally gentle and shy animals, and they have no desire to harm their human handlers unless they are uncomfortable, they smell something tasty on your hands, or they’re attempting to get used to a new environment. When you find your hedgehog biting, there are several ways you can gently reprimand him to train him not to bite in the future. 1  Firmly yell “NO” when the bite happens – hedgehogs do not like loud noises. 2  Push your fingers against the hedgehog’s mouth as he bites rather than pulling your fingers away.
How to React when Your Hedgehog Bites You. Hedgehogs make adorable pets but they have a little habit that makes owning them a little tricky-they bite when they are alarmed or unfamiliar with a situation or a person. If you happen to be the recipient of a hedgehog bite, it will be painful and the main bodily regions affected are the hand, arm, foot, ankle or leg