Biologists recognize 2 basic cell types: prokaryotic and eukaryotic. The earliest cells on earth were relatively simple prokaryotic cells. Over billions of years, some of these early prokaryotic cells evolved into present-day prokaryotic cells, while others evolved into much larger and more complex eukaryotic cells. The interior of eukaryotic cells is generally divided into many specialized compartments by internal membranes (membranes separate from the plasma membrane) and membrane-bound organelles (organelles completely surrounded by membranes). Usually, prokaryotic cells lack internal membranes and membrane-bound organelles. In addition, the DNA of eukaryotic cells is enclosed within a membrane-bound nucleus, while the DNA of prokaryotic cells is located in the cytoplasm. During this lab, you will use the brightfield microscope to examine and compare the features of several types of prokaryotic cells, and several types of
Reproduction in prokaryotic cells is by binary fission; a process of growth, enlargment and division. The DNA molecule of the cell is accurately duplicated and the two copies separated form each other by movement of the cell membrane to which they are attached. 
Features of Prokaryotes. Prokaryotes have a semi-rigid cell wall and a flexible membrane that encloses their cytoplasm, the medium that supports the processes of life. They contain one or more loops of DNA within the cytoplasm and protein manufacturing regions called ribosomes. 
Features of the Prokaryotic Cell. Prokaryotic cells have the following features: 1  The genetic material (DNA) is localized to a region called the nucleoid which has no surrounding membrane. 2  The cell contains large numbers of ribosomes that are used for protein synthesis. 3  At the periphery of the cell is the plasma membrane
In terms of differences, eukaryotic cells are much larger and more complex than prokaryotic cells. On average, a typical eukaryotic cell is about 1,000 X larger in volume than a typical prokaryotic cell. The interior of eukaryotic cells is generally divided into many specialized compartments by internal membranes (membranes separate from the plasma membrane) and membrane-bound organelles (organelles completely surrounded by membranes). Usually, prokaryotic cells lack internal membranes and membrane-bound organelles. In addition, the DNA of eukaryotic cells is enclosed within a membrane-bound nucleus, while the DNA of prokaryotic cells is located in the cytoplasm. During this lab, you will use the brightfield microscope to examine and compare the features of several types of prokaryotic cells, and several types of eukaryotic cells
All cells, whether they are prokaryotic or eukaryotic, have some common features. The common features of prokaryotic and eukaryotic cells are: 1  DNA, the genetic material contained in one or more chromosomes and located in a nonmembrane bound nucleoid region in prokaryotes and a membrane-bound nucleus in eukaryotes.
Eukaryotic cells are large, advanced and multicellular. They do contain membrane-bound organelles (plants contain a large vacuole and chloroplasts) and do have a distinct nucleus (the nucleus is surrounded by a nuclear membrane and the DNA is therefore cut off from the cytoplasm). They do not contain any membrane-bound organelles (such as chloroplasts, mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum, etc) and do not have a distinct nucleus (ie: no nuclear membrane-so the DNA is floating around in the cytoplasm). When DNA is floating around in the cytoplasm, it is called a nucleoid.
Best Answer: Prokaryotes 1. No nucleus 2. Lack all other organelles (except for cell walls & ribosomes) 3. Cell walls are made of peptidoglycan 4. Contains one circular strand of DNA 5. Smaller in size Eukaryotes 1. Presence of membrane-bound organelles 2. Presence of nucleus 3. Cell walls made of cellulose 4. Contains one or more paired, linear chromosomes 5
The three main features of a prokaryotic cell. We have its insides: 1. Cytoplasm. Cytoplasm is where its organelles are suspended. 2. Ribosomes. These ribosomes facilitate in manufacturing the cell’s proteins used in many cellular activities. 3. Plasmid. It is a tiny DNA molecule. 4. Nucleoid. The genophore of a prokaryotic cell where its genetical material are found. Externally prokaryotic cells have: 1. Capsules. 2