Limestone has many uses. It is commonly known as a building material, but can also produce other substances such as glass, cement, and lime. Also when powdered, limestone can … be used as a base to neutralize acid rain in lakes as well as acidic soils. 3 people found this useful. Sandstone is used as a building stone and it is used as an indicator of erosional and depositional processes by geologists. And, limestone are used as a soil conditioner, in t … he manufacture of glass, in agriculture and even in jewellery.
A rock known as tufa is a limestone formed by evaporation at a hot spring, lake shore, or other area. Limestone is by definition a rock that contains at least 50% calcium carbonate in the form of calcite by weight. All limestones contain at least a few percent other materials. These can be small particles of quartz, feldspar, clay minerals, pyrite, siderite and other minerals. It most commonly forms in clear, warm, shallow marine waters. It is usually an organic sedimentary rock that forms from the accumulation of shell, coral, algal and fecal debris. It can also be a chemical sedimentary rock formed by the precipitation of calcium carbonate from lake or ocean water.
Uses of limestone. Limestone, quicklime and slaked lime are all used to neutralise excess acidity-which may be caused by acid rain-in lakes and in soils. Limestone is used as a building material, and to purify iron in blast furnaces. It's also used in the manufacture of glass, and of cement (one of the components of concrete)
In addition, limestone is used as an additive to paint and other products, and a source of calcium carbonate which is used in a great deal of products including antacids. Cooked limestone is used to make Portland cement, the key ingredient in mortars, cements, and concrete. Sandstone is used as a building stone and it is used as an indicator of erosional and depositional processes by geologists. And, limestone are used as a soil conditioner, in t … he manufacture of glass, in agriculture and even in jewellery.
Limestone is a sedimentary rock composed primarily of calcium carbonate (CaCO 3) in the form of the mineral calcite. It most commonly forms in clear, warm, shallow marine waters. It is usually an organic sedimentary rock that forms from the accumulation of shell, coral, algal and fecal debris. It can also be a chemical sedimentary rock formed by the precipitation of calcium carbonate from lake or ocean water.
Like most other sedimentary rocks, most limestone is composed of grains. Most grains in limestone are skeletal fragments of marine organisms such as coral or foraminifera. Other carbonate grains comprising limestones are ooids, peloids, intraclasts, and extraclasts. 1 It is the raw material for the manufacture of quicklime (calcium oxide), slaked lime (calcium hydroxide), cement and mortar. 2  Pulverized limestone is used as a soil conditioner to neutralize acidic soils. 3  It is crushed for use as aggregate —the solid base for many roads as well as in asphalt concrete.
Limestone, as used by the minerals industry, is any rock composed mostly of calcium carbonate (CaCO 3). Although limestone is common in many parts of the United States, it is critically absent from some. 
Limestone is a sedimentary rock composed largely of the minerals calcite and aragonite, which are different crystal forms of calcium carbonate (CaCO 3). 1 It is the raw material for the manufacture of quicklime (calcium oxide), slaked lime (calcium hydroxide), cement and mortar. 2  Pulverized limestone is used as a soil conditioner to neutralize acidic soils. 3  It is crushed for use as aggregate —the solid base for many roads as well as in asphalt concrete.
Limestone is a sedimentary rock that is formed during the sedimentation process within lake floors, oceans and caves. This rock is composed of the minerals aragonite and calcites, which are the calcium carbonate’s crystal forms. A high calcium limestone has a mass of 95% of calcium carbonate. The properties of limestone, like compactness, hardness, durability and imperviousness, play a vital role with its us