RNA polymerase is an enzyme that is responsible for copying a DNA sequence into an RNA sequence, duyring the process of transcription. RNA polymerases have been found in all species, but the number and composition of these proteins vary across taxa. For instance, bacteria contain a single type of RNA polymerase, while eukaryotes (multicellular organisms and yeasts) contain three distinct types.
Compare RNA-dependent RNA polymerase. RNA polymerase (RNAP or RNApol), also known as DNA-dependent RNA polymerase, is an enzyme that produces primary transcript RNA. In cells, RNAP is necessary for constructing RNA chains using DNA genes as templates, a process called transcription. Each RNAP is transcribing an RNA strand, which can be seen branching off from the DNA. Begin indicates the 3' end of the DNA, where RNAP initiates transcription; End indicates the 5' end, where the longer RNA molecules are completely transcribed.
RNA polymerase. In most prokaryotes, a single RNA polymerase species transcribes all types of RNA. Figure 10-7 shows the structure of RNA polymerase from E. coli. We can see that the enzyme consists of four different subunit types. The beta (β) subunit has a molecular weight of 150,000, beta prime (β′) 160,000, alpha (α) 40,000, and sigma (σ) 70,000. Transcription by RNA polymerase. An RNA strand is synthesized in the 5′ → 3′ direction from a locally single stranded region of DNA. (After E. J. Gardner, M. J. Simmons, and D. P. Snustad, Principles of Genetics, (more...).
Figure 10-6. Transcription of two genes. (a) RNA polymerase moves from the 3′ end of the template strand, creating an RNA strand that grows in a 5′ → 3′ direction (because it must be antiparallel to the template strand). Transcription by RNA polymerase. An RNA strand is synthesized in the 5′ → 3′ direction from a locally single stranded region of DNA. (After E. J. Gardner, M. J. Simmons, and D. P. Snustad, Principles of Genetics, (more...).
In scientific terms, RNAP is a nucleotidyl transferase that polymerizes ribonucleotides at the 3' end of an rna transcript. Rna polymerase enzymes are essential and are found in all organisms, cells, and many viruses. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. This page was last modified on 22 February 2007, at 08:06.This page has been accessed 80,287 times.
The enzyme RNAp transcribes a RNA strand from the DNA helix. RNAp initiates transcription in the presence of promoter specific σ factors, elongates the nascent RNA and terminates transcription. RNA polymerase synthesizes nucleic acids in the 5’ to 3’ direction while reading a DNA template in the 3’ to 5’ direction. The σ is released soon after the transcription of 10bp (base pairs) of the growing RNA chain therefore it is restricted to promoter recognition and transcription initiation
RNA polymerase. Rna polymerase (RNAP or RNApol) is an enzyme that is responsible for making rna from a dna template. In all cells RNAP is needed for constructing rna chains from a dna template, a process termed transcription. Rna polymerase enzymes are essential and are found in all organisms, cells, and many viruses. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. This page was last modified on 22 February 2007, at 08:06.This page has been accessed 80,287 times.
RNA polymerase II of Saccharomyces cerevisiae consisting of all 12 subunits. RNA polymerase II (RNAP II and Pol II) is an enzyme found in eukaryotic cells. It catalyzes the transcription of DNA to synthesize precursors of mRNA and most snRNA and microRNA. A 550 kDa complex of 12 subunits, RNAP II is the most studied type of RNA polymerase. A wide range of transcription factors are required for it to bind to upstream gene promoters and begin transcription.
RNA polymerase (RNAP) in action. It is building a messenger RNA molecule from a DNA helix. Part of the enzyme was made transparent so the RNA and DNA can be seen. The magnesium ion (yellow) is located at the enzyme active site. RNA polymerase (RNAP) is the enzyme which does transcription .The 2006 Nobel Prize in Chemistry was awarded to Roger D. Kornberg for creating detailed molecular images of RNA polymerase during various stages of the transcription process.
n. A polymerase that catalyzes the synthesis of a complementary strand of RNA from a DNA template, or, in some viruses, from an RNA template. 