There are actually many other types of fungus infection of the skin, hair and nails apart from yeasts of the Candida family. This is important because the type of infection determines the type of treatment needed. You wouldn’t necessarily use a yeast infection home remedy in cases of ringworm, for example. 
1 You can externally apply plain yogurt on the affected skin area and let it sit for at least 20 to 30 minutes, or preferebly overnight. 2  This will help relieve the itching sensation. 3  For a vaginal yeast infection, dip a tampon in yogurt and then insert it in the vagina for two hours. 4  Do this twice a day. 1 Apply it on the affected skin area to control the growth of the infection. 2  In case of oral thrush, swish the oil in your mouth for five to 10 minutes. 3  You can also add a few drops of tea tree oil or cinnamon oil and then use. 4  Do not swallow.
1 Dilute organic tea tree oil with water or one teaspoon of olive oil or sweet almond oil. 2  Rub the diluted oil over the affected skin area several times a day. 3  For a vaginal yeast infection, place a few drops of tea tree oil on a tampon and insert it into your vagina for two to three hours. 4  Repeat the process twice daily. 7. Tea tree oil has powerful and effective natural antifungal properties that can help with home treatment of yeast infections. Pregnant women should not use this remedy as some of the properties present in tea tree oil can be harmful to the child.
Coconut oil has effective antifungal properties that can kill the fungi responsible for yeast infections. 1  Externally apply coconut oil on the affected areas three times a day. 2  You can also make a mixture of equal amounts of coconut oil and cinnamon oil. 1 Apply it on the affected skin area to control the growth of the infection. 2  In case of oral thrush, swish the oil in your mouth for five to 10 minutes. 3  You can also add a few drops of tea tree oil or cinnamon oil and then use. 4  Do not swallow.
Remedies for Yeast Infection Sores: It is not a good experience to have sores. These sores are painful, irritating and some times they bleed. Following are some remedies to get relief from these sores. 1  First cleanse the infected area and later apply pure honey on sores. 2  Rinse thoroughly after 25 – 30 minutes. Certain over the counter medications or home remedies can be used for treating this condition. If this condition is left untreated, it can make the skin inflamed and irritated, leading to chronic yeast infection sores which can bleed in extreme cases.
You might have a complicated yeast infection if: 1  You have severe symptoms, such as extensive redness, swelling and itching that leads to tears or cracks (fissures) or sores. 2  You have four or more yeast infections in a year. 3  Your infection is caused by a type of candida other than Candida albicans. 4  You're pregnant. Symptoms. Yeast infection symptoms can range from mild to moderate and include: 1  Itching and irritation in the vagina and the tissues at the vaginal opening (vulva). 2  A burning sensation, especially during intercourse or while urinating. 3  Redness and swelling of the vulva. 4  Vaginal pain and soreness. 5  Vaginal rash
One of the best home remedies to treat a yeast infection is Apple Cider Vinegar. Here are some simple steps on how to use this amazing natural treatment: Step 1: Add 1 and a half cups of Apple Cider Vinegar into a bathtub filled with luke warm water, and then soak in it for about 20 minutes. Yeast infections commonly inflict women in the vaginal area, with the following symptoms: 1  A thick, white, and odorless discharge from the vagina. 2  Itching and burning inside as well as outside
There are several causes of sores and blisters on the vagina. It would help if you identified some more symptoms of your condition to determine what exactly it is that you suffer from. Sores are caused by yeast infection in the vagina, which is caused by Candida Ablicans. Yeast infection also causes vaginal itching, white discharge, and fishy odor in the vagina. Another cause of sores or blisters in the vagina is genital herpes, a viral infection caused by Herpes Simplex Virus Type 1 and 2 that attacks the genitals
A yeast infection is a common bacterial infection caused by candida albicans, which is a strain of yeast that naturally live on the human body in small numbers. Yeast infections commonly inflict women in the vaginal area, with the following symptoms: 1  A thick, white, and odorless discharge from the vagina. 2  Itching and burning inside as well as outside the vagina. 3  A burning sensation during urination