Characteristics of the Garnet include consistency, endurance, creativity and patience. Although the Garnet is traditionally red in color, the stone ranges from a colorless hue to black but does not come in blue. Garnet is the daily gemstone for Tuesday and the planetary gemstone for the zodiac sign of Scorpio. Garnet jewelry is popular for its dramatic and romantic appearance.
So now you know what your birthstone is and what your birthstone means. As you know for many people birthstones are lucky charms and it is a common belief that wearing a birthstone can often enhance the quality of your life. It is also believed that wearer of these precious stones has these characteristics enhanced in him and is protected by the powers of the stones. In the table given below, we tell you what the twelve birthstones are and what they mean, so that you know what your birthstone will do for you.
Garnet signifies victory, truth, purity, friendship, faith and protection. The January birthstone is said to symbolize happiness, deep and enduring friendships. The stone has been associated with awareness, commitment, insight and regeneration, countering black magic, negative forces and dark energies. Value Of January Birthstone. The garnet is a semi-precious stone, a popular gem used in jewelry, artifacts and furnishing. Its fantastic range of colors, crystal structure and intensity makes this a coveted possession in many homes. The most expensive gemstone is the brilliant green garnet, the Demantoid.
Garnet stone meaning is often based on this red hue, and it is often associated with love, passion, inspiration, energy and blood related health aspects.Garnet is gemstone for Aquarius and birthstone for January .When people who was born on January, the red garnet is the best choice. Garnet meaning in relationship symbolizes intimacy, flaming romance and sensuality, and even often connected with sexuality. It is also said that Don Juan adorned his ring with garnet, as the stone is often associated with the stone of conquerors.
January Birthstone-Where are Garnets found?The popular January Birthstone of the Garnet is found in the following countries: 1  Sri Lanka, Malaya, India, Africa, Uruguay, U.S. and Brazil. January Birthstone-Properties of the GarnetFor those who were born in the month of January the garnet is the traditional birthstone. The January birthstone poem reflects some of the properties with which the garnet is associated-purity, truth, faithfulness and friendship. The Traditional Metaphysical Properties for the January Birthstone Garnet are awareness, commitment, regeneration, insight and removing negativity
The January Birthstone, garnet is a deep red crystal, a revered and popular precious stone. The Garnet has long been used as a talisman for protection by tribes and sects. According to legend, possessing or wearing a garnet ensures success and health, for the stone is believed to possess curative powers. Value Of January Birthstone. The garnet is a semi-precious stone, a popular gem used in jewelry, artifacts and furnishing. Its fantastic range of colors, crystal structure and intensity makes this a coveted possession in many homes. The most expensive gemstone is the brilliant green garnet, the Demantoid.
Blue Topaz and. Turquoise. January's birthstone, Garnet is blood red in colour and garnet means perseverance, truth, patience and consistency. Although most people think that garnets are only red in colour, but garnets come in a variety of colours like pink, green, yellow, violet and orange. 
January Birthstone-the Color of the GarnetThe traditional color associated with the garnet is the deep red color and was strongly favored as a popular gem in Victorian jewelry. The meaning of colors through the ages represented many aspects of life. January Birthstone-Properties of the GarnetFor those who were born in the month of January the garnet is the traditional birthstone. The January birthstone poem reflects some of the properties with which the garnet is associated-purity, truth, faithfulness and friendship. The Traditional Metaphysical Properties for the January Birthstone Garnet are awareness, commitment, regeneration, insight and removing negativity
Garnet Meaning, Powers and History. Garnet is the birthstone for January and the stone that celebrates the 2nd anniversary of marriage. The name “garnet” comes from the Latin word “Garanatus,” meaning “seedlike,” in reference to a pomegranate. This reference makes sense as small garnets look like the bright red seeds you find inside in a pomegranate. Garnet is actually a group name for the silicate minerals almandine, pyrope, spessartine, grossular, andradite, mozambique and uvarovite, so the garnet is a far more diverse gem than its name suggests. All of these garnet minerals share similar cubic crystal structure and chemical composition.