taxon, taxonomic category, taxonomic group-animal or plant group having natural relations. family - (biology) a taxonomic group containing one or more genera; sharks belong to the fish family. subgenus - (biology) taxonomic group between a genus and a species. 1. (Biology) biology any of the taxonomic groups into which a family is divided and which contains one or more species. For example, Vulpes (foxes) is a genus of the dog family (Canidae).
subfamily - (biology) a taxonomic category below a family. tribe - (biology) a taxonomic category between a genus and a subfamily. genus - (biology) taxonomic group containing one or more species. subgenus - (biology) taxonomic group between a genus and a species. variety - (biology) a taxonomic category consisting of members of a species that differ from others of the same species in minor but heritable characteristics; varieties are frequently recognized in botany. phylum - (biology) the major taxonomic group of animals and plants; contains classes.
genus. n, pl genera (ˈdʒɛnərə) or genuses. 1. (Biology) biology any of the taxonomic groups into which a family is divided and which contains one or more species. For example, Vulpes (foxes) is a genus of the dog family (Canidae).
1. Biology A taxonomic category ranking below a family and above a species and designating a group of species that are presumed to be closely related and usually exhibit similar characteristics. In a scientific name, the genus name is capitalized and italicized, for example, Ovis for sheep and related animals. 1. (Biology) biology any of the taxonomic groups into which a family is divided and which contains one or more species. For example, Vulpes (foxes) is a genus of the dog family (Canidae).
In biology, a species (abbreviated sp. , with the plural form species abbreviated spp. ) is one of the basic units of biological classification and a taxonomic rank. Species hypothesized to have the same ancestors are placed in one genus, based on similarities. The similarity of species is judged based on comparison of physical attributes, and where available, their DNA sequences.
A genus usually is composed of several closely related species. The genus Homo has only one species, Homo sapiens (humans). See also family. Taxonomy A taxonomic grouping of one or several species which is subordinate to a family, tribe or subtribe and superior to a species. Cf Family, Species, Trait, Tribe. 
1. Biology any of the taxonomic groups into which a family is divided and which contains one or more species. For example, Vulpes (foxes) is a genus of the dog family (Canidae). 2. Logic a class of objects or individuals that can be divided into two or more groups or species. Genera having only one species, such as Desmana or Welwitschia, are called monotypic. Genera with several species are often divided into subgenera, which unite especially closely related species. Each genus belongs to a family, but between these two taxonomic categories there are often intermediate ones.
In biological classification, rank is the relative level of a group of organisms (a taxon) in a taxonomic hierarchy. Examples of taxonomic ranks are species, genus, family, class, kingdom, etc. A given rank subsumes under it less general categories, that is, more specific descriptions of life forms.
genus. a taxonomic category (taxon) subordinate to a tribe (or subtribe) and superior to a species (or subgenus). , pl. (jēnŭs, jen'ĕr-ă), A genus name begins with a capital letter and is printed in italic type: Escherichia, Helicobacter, Staphylococcus. In this form it is never pluralized.