Types of albinism. Types of albinism, based mainly on which mutated gene caused the disorder, include: Oculocutaneous albinism. Oculocutaneous (ok-u-low-ku-TAY-nee-us) albinism is caused by a mutation in one of four genes. 1 Chediak-Higashi syndrome is a rare form of albinism associated with a mutation in the LYST gene. 2  With signs and symptoms similar to oculocutaneous albinism, the hair is usually brown or blond with a silvery sheen, and the skin is usually creamy white to grayish.
Skin anatomy. Albinism is caused by a mutation in one of several genes. Each of these genes provides instructions for making one of several proteins involved in the production of melanin. Melanin is produced by cells called melanocytes, which are found in your skin and eyes. 1 Chediak-Higashi syndrome is a rare form of albinism associated with a mutation in the LYST gene. 2  With signs and symptoms similar to oculocutaneous albinism, the hair is usually brown or blond with a silvery sheen, and the skin is usually creamy white to grayish.
The four types of oculocutaneous albinism each result from mutations in a single gene: TYR, OCA2, TYRP1, or SLC45A2. Changes in the TYR gene cause type 1; mutations in the OCA2 gene are responsible for type 2; TYRP1 mutations cause type 3; and changes in the SLC45A2 gene result in type 4. 
The enzyme produced by the TYR gene, called tyrosinase, is required for the synthesis of melanin pigment. A mutation in the TYR gene causes the most common form of albinism. People with albinism have either a partial or complete lack of pigment, or coloring, in their eyes, skin or hair. Keywords: melanin pigment,what is albinism,chromosome 11,mutation,synthesis
Albinism is caused by genetic mutations that affect the production of a pigment called melanin. There is a cell called the melanocyte that is responsible for giving skin, hair … , and eyes pigmentation. There are currently five known genetic types of albinism, the most common being oculocutaneous type 1 (OCA1) and type 2 (OCA2). Oculocutaneous means affecting the eyes and skin (oculo meaning eye and cutaneous meaning skin). The genetic mutation is usually the result of both parents having the recessive gene.
Ocular albinism type 1 results from mutations in the GPR143 gene. This gene provides instructions for making a protein that plays a role in pigmentation of the eyes and skin. It helps control the growth of melanosomes, which are cellular structures that produce and store a pigment called melanin. Ocular albinism type 1 is inherited in an X-linked pattern. A condition is considered X-linked if the mutated gene that causes the disorder is located on the X chromosome, one of the two sex chromosomes.
How albinism is inherited. In most cases, including all types of OCA and some types of OA, albinism is passed on in what is known as an autosomal recessive inheritance pattern. However, some types of OA are caused by a mutation on the X chromosome (one of the sex chromosomes). This is known as an X-linked inheritance pattern
Ocular Albinism (OA). OA is caused by a gene mutation on the X chromosome and occurs almost exclusively in males. This type of albinism only affects the eyes. People with OA have normal hair, skin, and eye coloring, but have no coloring in the retina (the back of the eye).