Simple cuboidal epithelial tissue lines the surface of the kidney's  tubules. These simple cuboidal cells absorb and transport the  various substances that are filtered by t … he kidney. 1 person found this useful. Stratified squamous epithelial cells are what form the top two layers of the epidermis: stratum corneum and stratum lucidum.
Types of kidney cancer. Renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is the most common type of kidney cancer. The cancerous cells typically develop in the lining of very small tubes in the kidney, called tubules. Over time, these cells may grow into a mass and cause an obstruction. The cancer may form in one or both of the kidneys. Subtypes of RCC.
In humans, there are four basic tissue types, which are: epithelial tissue, connective tissue, muscle tissue and nervous tissue. Within each general tissue type, there are specific tissue types. Think of this like a football team. There are individual players, each with their own 'job' on the field. A tissue is one of the building blocks of an organism--either animal or plant. An organism is comprised of tissues, which are made up of individual cells. These cells share a similar structure (how they're built) and function (what they do).
Tissue (Definition). The body is composed of tissue that are classically described as beiing derived from three basic embyonic layers known as the endoderm, mesoderm and ectoderm that then differentiate into the structures that compose the body such as skin, soft tissues, bone, muscle, organs, etc. Anybody: Kidney disease can occur to anyone. If it caused by an infection, nobody is totally immune. The usual reasons for kidney failure, leading to dialysis, are combinations of diabetes, high blood pressure, and poor circulation. There are genetic, inherited forms of kidney disease as well.
Specific epithelial tissue types consist of the combination of the cell shape and number of cell layers. For example, simple cuboidal epithelial tissue describes tissue that is one cell layer thick, with cells that are cube-like in appearance. A tissue is one of the building blocks of an organism--either animal or plant. An organism is comprised of tissues, which are made up of individual cells. These cells share a similar structure (how they're built) and function (what they do).
All of the various tissues of the human body can be categorized into four basic tissue types. All organs are built of these four tissues, which have consistent characteristics and arrangements from organ to organ. Thus an appreciation of the major features of these four basic tissue types can greatly simplify your understanding of the cellular composition of the many organ systems. 1  OVERVIEW. [More] [Examples]. Connective Tissue supports other tissues. Connective tissue consists of several cell types and extracellular products which, together, provide essential functions of mechanical reinforcement, immune surveillance, transport/diffusion of nutrients and wastes, and energy storage (fat).
Examples: 1  The parenchyma of the kidney is epithelial tissue (renal tubules and corpuscles). 2  The blood vessels, nerves, and supporting connective tissue of the kidney comprise the stroma. 3  The parenchyma of the spleen is connective tissue (mostly lymphocytes and other blood cells). [More] [Examples]. Connective Tissue supports other tissues. Connective tissue consists of several cell types and extracellular products which, together, provide essential functions of mechanical reinforcement, immune surveillance, transport/diffusion of nutrients and wastes, and energy storage (fat).