Tombstone's post office was established December 2, 1878 and has yet to be discontinued. Tombstone is the most famous of Arizona mining camps with its colorful history. Discovered by Ed Schieffelin in 1878, the mine went on to produce millions. Tombstone had over 15,000 residents at one time. Fires nearly caused the death of Tombstone twice but the town was resilient. 
Welcome to Tombstone, Arizona! Tombstone is internationally known for its stormy and storied past. Western legends like Wyatt Earp and “Doc” Holliday became household names after the Gunfight at the O.K. Corral®. 
TOMBSTONE ARIZONA. That name means many things to many people. It creates images of gunfights and dusty streets, whiskey and Faro games, Wyatt Earp, Doc Holliday and a plethora of old western movie scenes. Our goal is to have a One-Stop tourist guide to the City of Tombstone so you are able to know just what Tombstone has to offer. TombstoneWeb.com lists every Tombstone Arizona business we know of AND links to all of their websites for FREE.
Be sure to visit the Tombstone Arizona Courthouse built in 1882 which is now a state historic park and museum filled with artifacts and old photographs. And witness the town gallows on display in its courtyard. The old Tombstone Epitaph offices are now a museum where you can see the printed stories of past times. Once The Meanest Town in the West. Allen Street 1881 Tombstone AZ. Step into Tombstone AZ and you'll be stepping back into the rough and toughdays of the wild west. In the 1880s, Tombstone was a booming mining town that brought a rush of prospectors and miners looking to strike it rich. It also became a magnet to thieves, card-sharks, murderers, rustlers and an abundance of bad guy
In Depth. Tombstone, Arizona is a throwback to the days of the Old West. Main Street has been kept relatively similar to that of the days of the late 1800's. The OK Corral, where the Earp's and Doc Holiday killed three members of the Clanton gang, is downtown and, of course, a historical highlight. Tombstone is in southeastern Arizona about 65 miles southeast of Tucson. It is 23 miles south of I-10. To learn more about Tombstone, select a topic of interest from the list to the left.
Tombstone is a historic western city in Cochise County, Arizona, United States, founded in 1879 by Ed Schieffelin in what was then Pima County, Arizona Territory. It was one of the last wide-open frontier boomtowns in the American Old West. The town prospered from about 1877 to 1890, during which time the town's mines produced US$40 to $85 million in silver bullion, the largest productive silver district in Arizona. On the evening of March 15, 1881, three Cowboys attempted to rob a Kinnear & Company stagecoach carrying US$26,000 in silver bullion (about $635,386 in today's dollars) en route from Tombstone to Benson, Arizona, the nearest railroad freight terminal.
Within two years of its founding, although far distant from any other metropolitan city, Tombstone boasted a bowling alley, four churches, an ice house, a school, two banks, three newspapers, and an ice cream parlor, alongside 110 saloons, 14 gambling halls, and numerous dancing halls and brothels. On the evening of March 15, 1881, three Cowboys attempted to rob a Kinnear & Company stagecoach carrying US$26,000 in silver bullion (about $635,386 in today's dollars) en route from Tombstone to Benson, Arizona, the nearest railroad freight terminal.
T ombstone Arizona is a living town with a rich and colorful history. Many of the Wild West's most famous characters called Tombstone their home at one time or another. Below is a listing of the Historic Attractions here in Tombstone. These Museums, Shows, Historic Sites, Jeep tours, Trail Rides and Places of Interest will give you a glimpse into the Wild and Turbulent past that was once TOMBSTONE, ARIZONA TERRITORY. A lso included is a listing of Tombstone Arizona's civic organizations. Here you will find links to the City of Tombstone, Chamber of Commerce and other groups.