In accordance with the location and structural features in the spinal column distinguishes five types of vertebrae: 7 cervical, 12 thoracic, 5 lumbar, 5 sacral and 3-5 coccygeal. Cervical vertebra (vertebra cervicalis) is different from others in that it has a hole in the transverse processes. Each of the vertebrae (vertebra), make up the spine, inside has a through hole vertebrate (foramen vertebrale). In the spine vertebral openings are the spinal canal (canalis vertebralis), containing the spinal cord, which is thus protected from external influences.
The vertebral column (also known as the backbone or the spine), is a column of approximately 33 small bones, called vertebrae. The column runs from the cranium to the apex of the coccyx, on the posterior aspect of the body. It contains and protects the spinal cord. The vertebral arch refers to the lateral and posterior parts of the vertebrae. With the vertebral body, the vertebral arch forms an enclosed hole, called a vertebral foramen. The foramina of the all vertebrae line up to form the vertebral canal, which enclose
Structure of a Typical Vertebra. Each vertebra is composed of a body anteriorly and a neural arch posteriorly (fig. 2). The arch encloses an opening, the vertebral foramen, which helps to form a canal in which the spinal cord is housed. Protruding from the posterior extreme of each neural arch is a spinous process and extending from the lateral edges of each arch are transverse processes. The sacrum is composed of five fused vertebrae, and there are two coccygeal vertebrae which are sometimes fused (fig. 1). In the normal adult there are four curvatures in the vertebral column in an anteroposterior plane. These serve to align the head with a vertical line through the pelvis (fig. 2).
The upper and lower surfaces of the vertebra body give attachment to the intervertebral discs. The posterior part of a vertebra forms a vertebral arch, in eleven parts, consisting of two pedicles, two laminae, and seven processes. The laminae give attachment to the ligamenta flava. The articulating vertebrae provide a strong pillar of support for the body. There are seven processes projecting from the vertebra; a spinous process, two transverse processes, and four articular processes. A major part of a vertebra is a backward extending spinous process which projects centrally.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. The transverse process is a bony structure that protrudes from each side of the vertebrae, which means that there are two connected to each vertebrae of the spine. These processes are responsible for attaching muscles and ligaments to the spinal column. Ad. The processes located in the cervical portion of the spine connect muscles and ligaments to the small vertebrae in the neck region of the spine. In this area, they have what is known as transverse foramina, which act as passageways for the arteries that lead to the brain.
The pedicle is a pair of short processes that protrude backward on each side of the vertebrae in order to connect the body of the spinal vertebrae to the arch. The role of the transverse process, as previously mentioned, is dependent on its location within the spinal column. Ad. The processes located in the cervical portion of the spine connect muscles and ligaments to the small vertebrae in the neck region of the spine. In this area, they have what is known as transverse foramina, which act as passageways for the arteries that lead to the brain.
Each vertebra has a facet on each side of the vertebral body which articulates with the head of a rib. There is also a facet on each of the transverse processes which articulates with the tubercle of a rib. The number of thoracic vertebrae varies considerably across the species. The articulating vertebrae provide a strong pillar of support for the body. There are seven processes projecting from the vertebra; a spinous process, two transverse processes, and four articular processes. A major part of a vertebra is a backward extending spinous process which projects centrally.