BCAAs, also known as branched chain amino acids, are the essential amino acids leucine, isoleucine, and valine which combined make up about 1/3 of skeletal muscle tissue in your body. 
Low blood sugar in infants: Intake of one of the branched-chain amino acids, leucine, has been reported to lower blood sugar in infants with a condition called idiopathic hypoglycemia. This term means they have low blood sugar, but the cause is unknown. Branched-chain amino acids are essential nutrients that the body obtains from proteins found in food, especially meat, dairy products, and legumes. They include leucine, isoleucine, and valine. “Branched-chain” refers to the chemical structure of these amino acids
BCAA is an abbreviation for branched chain amino acids -- leucine, isoleucine, and valine -- which have anabolic effects on protein metabolism by increasing the rate of protein synthesis and decreasing the rate of protein degradation in resting human muscle. BCAA supplement for muscle training, growth and strength Athletes who supplement with branched-chain amino acids while a moderate endurance workout could help reduce muscle breakdown.
By taking BCAA supplement, the decrease in plasma BCAA brought about by the exercise is prevented and increases the level of BCAA in the muscle. What sets BCAA's apart from other amino acids is that they are not easily degraded in the liver. BCAA supplement has been a subject of numerous studies to probe into its usefulness in the treatment of liver failure and catabolic disease states and for its role in enhancing exercise performance.
This most vital group of essential amino acids is composed of Leucine, Isoleucine, and Valine and perform significant duties in the synthesis of protein and the production of energy. Additionally, BCAAs also have other uses as each of the component also serve other purposes. BCAA supplement has been a subject of numerous studies to probe into its usefulness in the treatment of liver failure and catabolic disease states and for its role in enhancing exercise performance.
Buy BCAA supplement 120 capsules, creatine pills or powder. BCAA Complex contains the 2:1:1 ratio of the free-form, crystalline branched chain amino acids L-Leucine, L-Isoleucine and L-Valine combined with the conditionally essential amino acid L-Glutamine. BCAA supplement for muscle training, growth and strength Athletes who supplement with branched-chain amino acids while a moderate endurance workout could help reduce muscle breakdown.
The rise of BCAA levels also elevates production of other amino acids like glutamine. BCAA supplement or branched chain amino acid supplement is a kind of supplementation that some bodybuilders and athletes take to prevent the shrinking of muscle size and strength due to reduced muscle protein synthesis and breakdown. BCAA supplement has been a subject of numerous studies to probe into its usefulness in the treatment of liver failure and catabolic disease states and for its role in enhancing exercise performance.
A branched-chain amino acid (BCAA) is an amino acid having aliphatic side-chains with a branch (a central carbon atom bound to three or more carbon atoms). Among the proteinogenic amino acids, there are three BCAAs: leucine, isoleucine and valine. Non-proteinogenic BCAAs include norvaline and 2-aminoisobutyric acid. 
As BCAAs include leucine, and as leucine suppresses muscle breakdown, a BCAA supplement is useful for preserving muscle while training in a fasted state. And in case you’re wondering why you can’t just use food, remember that food will spike your insulin levels and you will no longer be in a fasted state. The Supplement I Use Instead of BCAAs. In the spirit of full disclosure, I want you to know that the following supplement that I recommend below isn’t just what I personally use but it’s from my supplement line, LEGION. As you probably know, the supplement industry is notorious for its lies and shenanigans.