Incoming search terms: 1  spongy feet feeling. 2  spongy feeling in feet. 3  spongy feet. 4  bottom of feet feel spongy. 5  spongy feeling on bottom of feet. 6  spongy feeling bottom feet. 7  spongy feeling feet. 8  spongy feeling in foot. 9  why do my feet feel spongy. I have a 67 year old male patient who came in complaining of “spongy feeling on the balls of my feet”. He has had this for 2 years now. It is in no way painful, it is “just an uncomfortable feeling”. Originally posted here:
Q: When I do an exam, I feel lumps everywhere! A: The breasts are composed of firm glandular tissue and soft fatty tissue. Together they make the breast tissue feel lumpy and bumpy with hills, valleys and ridges. That is normal. If you feel a lump, check the opposite side and see if it has a matching area i.e. mirror image. Fortunately the breast tissue is rather symmetrical (one side matches the other). If you feel a lumpy area in the upper outer right breast, check the upper outer left breast for a corresponding area before you panic
Spongy tissue is a type of tissue found both in plants and animals. In plants, it is part of the mesophyll, where it forms a layer next to the palisade cells in the leaf. Spongy tissue is also a type of animal tissue which contains smooth muscles, fibrous tissues, spaces, veins, and arteries. An example is the corpus spongiosum penis.
Spongy (cancellous) bone is lighter and less dense than compact bone. Spongy bone consists of plates (trabeculae) and bars of bone adjacent to small, irregular cavities that contain red bone marrow. The canaliculi connect to the adjacent cavities, instead of a central haversian canal, to receive their blood supply. Compact bone consists of closely packed osteons or haversian systems. The osteon consists of a central canal called the osteonic (haversian) canal, which is surrounded by concentric rings (lamellae) of matrix. Between the rings of matrix, the bone cells (osteocytes) are located in spaces called lacunae.
Usually this is taken up by something called the lymphatic system. This kind of swelling can also be the result of leaky blood vessels from a source of inflammation like an allergic-type reaction (like a bug bite or bee sting) or from infection. My head feels soft in the back on the left side. It feels like if I push on it it kind of stays that way for a second, like I can make an indentation in it.
Scar Tissue. When any sort of damage occurs to the soft tissues, like a strain or sprain, the body immediately goes into a process of repair. Where the individual fibres have been ruptures, or torn, the body begins to bind the damaged fibres together using a fibrous protein called collagen. Scar tissue is made from an inflexible fibrous material. This fibrous material binds itself to the damaged soft tissue fibres in an effort to draw the damaged fibres back together. What results is a bulky mass of fibrous scar tissue completely surrounding the injury site.
Structure of Bone Tissue. There are two types of bone tissue: compact and spongy. The names imply that the two types differ in density, or how tightly the tissue is packed together. There are three types of cells that contribute to bone homeostasis. Compact bone consists of closely packed osteons or haversian systems. The osteon consists of a central canal called the osteonic (haversian) canal, which is surrounded by concentric rings (lamellae) of matrix. Between the rings of matrix, the bone cells (osteocytes) are located in spaces called lacunae.