NEW YORK, Nov. 5, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Reportlinker.com announces that a new market research report is available in its catalogue: Pharma Leader Series: Top 25 Biosimilar Drug Manufacturers 2013-2023. http://www.reportlinker.com/p01861536/Pharma-Leader-Series-Top-25-Biosimilar-Drug-Manufacturers-2013-2023 .... RELATED LINKS. http://www.reportlinker.com. NEW YORK, Nov. 5, 2013 /PRNewswire/ -- Reportlinker.com announces that a new market research report is available in its catalogue: Pharma Leader Series: Top 25 Biosimilar Drug Manufacturers 2013-2023. http://www.reportlinker ....
2015 Narayanan Oration-Crawford School of Public Policy-ANUThe 2015 Narayanan Oration is presented by The Australia South Asia Research Centre. This year the lecture will be delivered by Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, Chairperson and Managing Director of Biocon Limited, India. Biocon Malaysia via Biocon. We are fortunate that ‪#‎science‬ cannot explain everything and look into the future. This is a touching story on ‪#‎cancer‬ .
Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw in 2015. Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw (born 23 March 1953) is an Indian entrepreneur. She is the chairman and managing director of Biocon Limited, a biotechnology company based in Bangalore (Bengaluru), India and the current chairperson of IIM-Bangalore. In 2014, she was awarded the Othmer Gold Medal, for outstanding contributions to the progress of science and chemistry. In 2004, Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw started a corporate social responsibility wing at Biocon, the Biocon Foundation. The Foundation focuses on the areas of health, education and infrastructure, especially in rural areas of Karnataka which lack healthcare facilities.
Biocon’s milestone events in each year are as follows: 1  29 November 1978—Biocon India is incorporated as a joint venture between Biocon Biochemicals Ltd. of Ireland and Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw. 2  1979—Becomes the first Indian company to manufacture and export enzymes to USA and Europe. Novel licensing program: Biocon has programs to out-license two molecules IN-105 and T1h. With a positive safety and clearance profile, IN-105 is an orally delivered conjugated insulin drug that is expected in the market soon. IN-105 is currently undergoing Phase 3 clinical studies in India.
Between 2005 and 2010, Biocon entered into more than 2,200 high-value R&D licensing and other deals within the pharmaceuticals and bio-pharmaceutical space. It has also expanded its global footprint to emerging and developed markets through acquisitions, partnerships and in-licensing. Novel licensing program: Biocon has programs to out-license two molecules IN-105 and T1h. With a positive safety and clearance profile, IN-105 is an orally delivered conjugated insulin drug that is expected in the market soon. IN-105 is currently undergoing Phase 3 clinical studies in India.
Biocon was the first biotechnology company in India to issue an IPO. Biocon's IPO was oversubscribed 33 times and its first day at the bourses closed with a market value of $1.11 billion, making Biocon only the second Indian company to cross the $1-billion mark on the first day of listing. In 2004, Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw started a corporate social responsibility wing at Biocon, the Biocon Foundation. The Foundation focuses on the areas of health, education and infrastructure, especially in rural areas of Karnataka which lack healthcare facilities.
www.bioconacademy.com Write to: admissions@bioconacademy.com. At Biocon, we are driven by our passion to develop research-driven cutting edge therapies. Our tryst with innovation has enabled us to address the relatively unmet needs of our patients through differentiated products in challenging therapeutic spaces. We have earned the trust of patients and doctors through our products that are safe, efficacious and affordable. We are constantly engaged in pursuit of excellence to find solutions that heal the world. Biocon is India's largest and fully-integrated, innovation-led biopharmaceutical company. As the largest Indian Insulins Company, we believe we have made a huge difference to millions of diabetic patients in India. Over the years Biocon has also emerged as a leading Indian oncology company making cancer-care 'affordable' and 'accessible' to
Biocon Limited (BSE: 532523) is an Indian biopharmaceutical company based in Bangalore, India. The Company manufactures generic active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) that are sold in the developed markets of the United States and Europe. Novel licensing program: Biocon has programs to out-license two molecules IN-105 and T1h. With a positive safety and clearance profile, IN-105 is an orally delivered conjugated insulin drug that is expected in the market soon. IN-105 is currently undergoing Phase 3 clinical studies in India.
About Biocon. Biocon is in the Pharmaceuticals sector. The current market capitalisation stands at Rs 8,773.00 crore. The company management includes Kiran Mazumdar Shaw-Chairperson & Managing Director, John Shaw-Vice Chairman, Arun Chandavarkar-Joint Managing Director & CEO, Charles L Cooney-Non Exe. & Ind