Guide to Toxic Plants. Two easy steps to help prevent your pet from being poisoned: 1  Know the names of all the plants in your garden. 2  Save the identification sticks when plants are purchased to know a plant’s exact scientific name. 3  Keep all poisonous plants, seeds and bulbs, out of reach of your pet. Toxic part: The entire plant; including the fresh or dried fruit. If your pet has been poisoned, the six essential steps: Do NOT panic. 1  Remove any plant remaining in your pet’s mouth and gently rinse around the mouth with water. 2  Also if possible, try to give your pet a small amount of water to drink.
Jasmine Toxicity. True jasmine (Jasminium spp.) is not toxic to cats, dogs or horses. But there are other plants that are called jasmine besides true jasmine. Jasmine may bloom in winter or spring. Jasmine (Jasminium spp.) is a flowering evergreen or deciduous vine or shrub that grows in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 6 through 11, depending on the species. Jasmine shrubs may grow up to 15 feet tall, and many are highly fragrant.
mersiepoo (6A). Not all jasmine plants are poisonous, the one maid of orleans/arabian tea jasmine are edible. They use the flowers in jasmine tea. Not sure about star jasmine, it very well could be toxic, but I know that the arabian tea jasmine's flowers are edible. I am trying to find out if two plants are edible: The first one is a star jasmine. I know they are prized for their fragrance, but I also want to know if you can eat them. The second is a regular ornamental geranium.
Chickens can eat true jasmine flowers without being poisoned. Visage/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Jasmine, also called jessamine, is a popular, nontoxic, blossoming landscaping plant. It typically bears white flowers and, less often, pink or yellow flowers. However, another jasmine -- known as false jasmine, Carolina jasmine or yellow jasmine -- is indeed a toxic plant.
Jasmine Species. According to the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (ASPCA), Jasminum species plants are not poisonous to dogs. Winter Jasmine is a vining shrub to 15-feet tall. Yellow, scentless flowers appear in very early spring on leafless stems followed by dark-green summer foliage. It requires a support such as a trellis. Star Jasmine is also called Confederate Jasmine because it grows in the Southern U.S. in USDA hardiness zones 8 to 10, the area that once was the Confederate States of America. The ASPCA lists this plant as nontoxic to dogs.
Confederate Jasmine. Confederate jasmine's dark green leaves turn purple in the winter. Each white flower has five petals that resemble a pinwheel. It grows well in climates where temperatures rarely drop below freezing. Star jasmine is often called confederate jasmine because of its widespread use in the southeastern United States.
Next. Sniksnak.com has Star Jasmine listed on both its toxic plant list (http://www.sniksnak.com/plants-toxic.html) and its non-toxic plant list (http://www.sniksnak.com/plants.html). 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. I believe the leaves and the flower are toxic if eaten. It could cause illness. If you have Star Jasmine growing in your backyard, and you have a dog, it's best for the dog to stay away. 
Plants Harmful to Birds. This list is a work in progress. Where I have found details of harmful effects of the plants, they are included. The list will also eventually cross reference plants by both common and botanical names, which it does not do now. 