For a 3-dimensional nonimaging compound parabolic concentrator, the maximum concentration possible in air or in vacuum (equal to the ratio of input and output aperture areas), is: where is the half-angle of the acceptance angle (of the larger aperture). In the drawing opposite there are two parabolic mirrors CC' (red) and DD' (blue). Both parabolas are cut at B and A respectively. A is the focal point of parabola CC' and B is the focal point of the parabola DD' The area DC is the entrance aperture and the flat absorber is AB. This CPC has an acceptance angle of θ.
b) Diameter of the compound parabolic concentrator = 180 mm The overall dimension of solar receiver was 1860 mm in length and 1220 mm in breadth. A total of six parabolic concentrators were placed with equal spacing of 15 mm (Fig. 5) over previously constructed flat plate collector. Experiments were carried to study the comparative performance of a solar flat plate collector and compound parabolic concentrator of same size. Average temperature rise of 9.5 0 C was observed during the period. A manual solar tracking was facilitated along the two axes up to 4.68 0 vertical and 11.54 0 horizontal.
Compound Parabolic Concentrators are critical components in solar energy collection, wireless communication, biomedical and defense research, or for any applications requiring condensing of a divergent light source. This will allow Edmund Optics® to display the most accurate regionalized product, pricing, and contact information for the country to which you are shipping. You can change this selection at any time, but products in your cart, wish list, or quote may be removed if they are unavailable in the new shipping country.
Compound Parabolic Concentrator 7The acceptance angle of the CPC is the angle AED. It is obtained by joining the focus to the opposite aperture edge. The concentration ratio is given by w/b. The height and aperture area for a CPC are calculated as per the desired operating temperature. Compound Parabolic Concentrator ii CONTENTS Title Page No. Abstract iiiAcknowledgment ivList of Figures /Diagram and Tables vNomenclature viChapter 1: Introduction to Concentrating Collectors. 1 - 5 1.1. Introduction 1 1.2.
COMPOUND PARABOLIC CONCENTRATORS FOR NARROWBAND WIRELESS INFRARED RECEIVERS(1 9) leads to an angle-averaged filter transmission that is fixed at T=94%. 1.6 3.3 Double-CPC Concentrator Having 90-deg FOV The double CPCs in Fig. 2(b) and 2(c) have FOVs larger than the angular bandwidth of the bandpass filter. This 5% to 6% discrepancyarises because of the nonideal nature of the CPC; reflectionlosses within the CPC are negligible, since it relies upon totalinternal reflection at the parabolic surface. Adding an optical filter having N* 1.89 and m =4 (like the filter in Fig. 4), and satisfying Eq.
The objective of this work is to calculate the increase in output due to compound parabolic concentrators (CPCs) using numerical simulation. A CPC concentrates the maximum amount of radiation on a planar receiver consistent with the laws of thermodynamics. For reflector 2.5 times the width of the still, the output per unit area per day roughly triples with only ~10% increase in cost and moderate maintenance (weekly tilts), indicating that CPCs have a significant economic advantage in producing solar distilled water. For full paper.
Abstract. In this paper ways of using compound parabolic concentrators as primary optical elements for concentrated photovoltaics are evaluated. 
Compound Parabolic Concentrator iii ABSTRACT Compound Parabolic Concentrators (CPC) is used in industrial application where medium pressure steam at around 150ºC is required. Flat Plate Collectors are not efficient enough to deliver water at temperature more than 100ºC. Hence Concentrating Collectors are used. Compound Parabolic Concentrator ii CONTENTS Title Page No. Abstract iiiAcknowledgment ivList of Figures /Diagram and Tables vNomenclature viChapter 1: Introduction to Concentrating Collectors. 1 - 5 1.1. Introduction 1 1.2.
Compound Parabolic Concentrators (CPCs) are designed to efficiently collect and concentrate distant light sources. With acceptance angle options of 25° and 45°, our CPCs are able to accommodate a variety of light sources and configurations. This will allow Edmund Optics® to display the most accurate regionalized product, pricing, and contact information for the country to which you are shipping. You can change this selection at any time, but products in your cart, wish list, or quote may be removed if they are unavailable in the new shipping country.
An example of such design is the semi cylindrical parabolic solar concentrator. A semi-cylindrical parabolic solar concentrator is based upon the direct conversion of solar energy to thermal energy by heating, reaching temperatures above 300 ºC, depending on the efficiency of the concentrator. Experiments were carried to study the comparative performance of a solar flat plate collector and compound parabolic concentrator of same size. Average temperature rise of 9.5 0 C was observed during the period. A manual solar tracking was facilitated along the two axes up to 4.68 0 vertical and 11.54 0 horizontal.