ureter. the fibromuscular tube, 41 to 46 cm long, through which the urine passes from the kidney to the bladder. adj., adj ure´teral, ureter´ic. As urine is produced by each kidney, it passes into the ureter, which, by contracting rhythmically, forces the urine along and empties it in spurts into the bladder. After being stored temporarily in the bladder, the urine passes out of the body by way of the urethra.
The ureter is the tube that connects each kidney to the bladder. The kidneys clean the blood and filter waste from it. This process produces a liquid waste, urine. Urine flows from the kidneys through the ureters to the bladder. The urine is stored in the bladder until a person urinates. During urination, the urine leaves the body by passing from the bladder through another tube, the urethra, which is open at one end.
The ureter is a paired fibromuscular tube that conveys urine from the kidneys in the abdomen to the bladder in the pelvis. The ureter is 25-30 cm long and has three parts: 
Ectopic Ureter. Ureters are the two funnel-shaped tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder. A ureter that does not connect properly to the bladder and drains somewhere outside of the bladder is called an ectopic ureter. In boys the ectopic ureter usually drains into the urethra closer to the prostate. 1 Hydronephrosis: When the ectopic ureter connects outside the bladder, the insertion is usually narrow, creating a level of obstruction. 2  The urine that is draining from the kidneys backs up and causes the kidney and ureter to dilate (hydronephrosis).
Ureter. The ureter is a tube that carries urine from the kidney to the urinary bladder. There are two ureters, one attached to each kidney. The upper half of the ureter is located in the abdomen and the lower half is located in the pelvic area. The ureter is about 10 to 12 inches long in the average adult
The renal pelvis is the top part of the ureter. The ureter is a long tube that connects the kidney to the bladder. There are two kidneys, one on each side of the backbone, above the waist. The kidneys of an adult are about 5 inches long and 3 inches wide and are shaped like a kidney bean. Tiny tubules in the kidneys filter and clean the blood
ureter. the fibromuscular tube through which the urine passes from the kidney to the bladder. ectopic ureter. an abnormally placed opening of the ureter, either into the urinary bladder or at another site in the lower urinary or genital tract. There is usually constant dribbling of urine and commonly an associated pyuria. As urine is produced by each kidney, it passes into the ureter, which, by contracting rhythmically, forces the urine along and empties it in spurts into the bladder. After being stored temporarily in the bladder, the urine passes out of the body by way of the urethra.
In human anatomy, the ureters are tubes made of smooth muscle fibers that propel urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder. In the adult, the ureters are usually 25–30 cm (10–12 in) long and ~3–4 mm in diameter. Histologically, the ureter contains transitional epithelium and an additional smooth muscle layer in the more distal one-third to assist with peristalsis.
Each ureter enters the bladder through a tunnel in the bladder wall, which is angled to prevent the urine from running back into the ureter when the bladder contracts. A ureter is one of two uterine tubes that carry urine from the kidneys to the bladder. Each ureter is about ten to twelve inches long. Urine flows down partly by gravity, but mainly by waves of contractions, which pass several times per minute through the muscle layers of the urethral walls. 