The inner layer covers organs in bodily cavities and is called the visceral membrane; this inner layer of epithelial cells is followed by a connective tissue; after the connective tissue is the second layer of epithelial cells of the serous membrane called the parietal layer. The Latin anatomical name is tunica serosa. 
It is a cancer of mesothelial cells. These cells cover the outer surface of most of our internal body organs, forming a lining that is sometimes called the mesothelium. So this is where this type of cancer gets its name. Mesothelioma can develop in the tissues covering the lungs and the abdomen.
You can find simple squamous epithelial tissue in alveoli in lungs. The reason of it, is that simple squamous cells are very thin and they pass the gases through very easily. … As you know the alveoli's' role is to exchange oxygen and carbon dioxide, thin walls help to do it quicker. 3 people found this useful. 1  Easy Tissue Cover Sewing Pattern Whether you have a winter cold or spring allergies, carrying a small package of tissues is practical.
Pleura of the Lungs. The pleura includes two thin layers of tissue that protect and cushion the lungs. The inner layer (visceral pleura) wraps around the lungs and is stuck so tightly to the lungs that it cannot be peeled off. The outer layer (parietal pleura) lines the inside of the chest wall. 
Body membranes are thin sheets of tissue that cover the body, line body cavities, and cover organs within the cavities in hollow organs. Mucous Membranes. Mucous membranes are epithelial membranes that consist of epithelial tissue that is attached to an underlying loose connective tissue. These membranes, sometimes called mucosae, line the body cavities that open to the outside.
Membranes. Body membranes are thin sheets of tissue that cover the body, line body cavities, and cover organs within the cavities in hollow organs. They can be categorized into epithelial and connective tissue membrane. Mucous Membranes. Mucous membranes are epithelial membranes that consist of epithelial tissue that is attached to an underlying loose connective tissue. These membranes, sometimes called mucosae, line the body cavities that open to the outside.
1. Muscle 2. connective tissues expand and contract the lungs. 3. Nervous tissue sends and receives messages that help regulate gas exchange in the lungs and the rate at which … a person breathes. 4. Epithelial tissue forms the inner lining of the lungs. … As you know the alveoli's' role is to exchange oxygen and carbon dioxide, thin walls help to do it quicker. 3 people found this useful. 1  Easy Tissue Cover Sewing Pattern Whether you have a winter cold or spring allergies, carrying a small package of tissues is practical.
The pleura (the covering of the lungs). There are 2 fibrous sheets of tissue that cover the lungs and help to protect them. These are callled the pleura or pleural membranes. Doctors usually call these the lining of the lungs, although this can be a bit confusing as they are on the outside. The gap between the pleura is called the pleural space. Close to the lungs and airways are lymph nodes (also called lymph glands). They are small bean shaped glands found throughout the body. They are connected by a network of tubes called lymphatics or lymphatic vessels. This network carries a fluid that leaks out of the blood vessels and bathes the body tissues and cells.
Synovial Membranes. Synovial membranes are connective tissue membranes that line the cavities of the freely movable joints such as the shoulder, elbow, and knee. Like serous membranes, they line cavities that do not open to the outside. Unlike serous membranes, they do not have a layer of epithelium. Mucous Membranes. Mucous membranes are epithelial membranes that consist of epithelial tissue that is attached to an underlying loose connective tissue. These membranes, sometimes called mucosae, line the body cavities tha
What mesothelioma is. Mesothelioma is a type of cancer that can develop in the tissues covering the lungs or the abdomen. It is a cancer of mesothelial cells. These cells cover the outer surface of most of our internal body organs, forming a lining that is called the mesothelium. These cells cover the outer surface of most of our internal body organs, forming a lining that is sometimes called the mesothelium. So this is where this type of cancer gets its name. Mesothelioma can develop in the tissues covering the lungs and