It is rare to find a map of Europe with Scotland labeled since the country is a constituent country of the United Kingdom and not independent. In the link below is a map of Eu … rope with all four of the constituent countries of the United Kingdom labeled. Scotland is the country located on the island of Great Britain. It is north of England and Wales and east of Northern Ireland and Ireland.
Location. Scotland is a country with a medium population which is located in the continent/region of Europe. Countries near Scotland include Northern Ireland, Isle of Man, Ireland and Wales. Scotland is a country with a medium population which is located in the continent/region of Europe
Located in Northern Europe, Scotland comprises the northern one third of the island of Great Britain as well as 790 surrounding islands encompassing the major archipelagoes of the Shetland Islands, Orkney Islands and the Inner and Outer Hebrides. 
Scotland is a part of the United Kingdom (UK) and occupies the northern third of Great Britain. Scotland’s mainland shares a border with England to the south. It is home to almost 800 small islands, including the northern isles of Shetland and Orkney, the Hebrides, Arran and Skye. Scotland’s location is to the mid-west of Europe and is surrounded by several different seas. Located to the east of Scotland is the North Sea, which divides the country from other areas of Europe, in particular Norway and the rest of Scandinavia
yes it is the north of the UK UK is part of europe along with countries like spain, italy, france, austria, germany, greece Scotland is very cold usually as it is in the northern region of the United Kingdom.... The British Isles are a group of Islands off the North-West coast of mainland Europe. Great Britain is the biggest Island in this group Scotland is one of three countries that are located on this island (the others being England and Wales).
Share |. Scotland is located in north-western part of Europe and is part of Great Britain, an island country in the United Kingdom (UK). Scotland is a country that is made up of several island chains and a main land that is connected to the country of England. Country-United Kngdom. 
Yes. Scotland is one of the countries which makes up the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Scotland is on the Island of great britian which is in Europe. Britian is not attached to continental Europe but it is in Europe, same as Ireland, Iceland, Malta etc. The British Isles are a group of Islands off the North-West coast of mainland Europe. Great Britain is the biggest Island in this group Scotland is one of three countries that are located on this island (the others being England and Wales).
Glasgow is a city/town with a large population in the country of Scotland which is located in the continent/region of Europe. Cities, towns and places near Glasgow include Bishopbriggs, Giffnock, Stepps and Bearsden. 
Report Abuse. Yes, it is on the Same Island with England, and that Island is called Great Britain, Britain is a part of Europe and the European Union. Scotland United with England in 1707 and became the country of Britain, then When Northan Ireland joined the Union, it became known as the United Kingdom. The British Isles are a group of Islands off the North-West coast of mainland Europe. Great Britain is the biggest Island in this group Scotland is one of three countries that are located on this island (the others being England and Wales).