The 1998 language survey of 200 Hopi people reflects the current state of the Hopi language: 100% of Hopi elders (60 years or older) are fluent, while fluency in adults (age 40-59) is only 84%, 50% in young adults (age 20-39), and 5% in children (age 2-19). The use of the language has gradually declined over the course of the 20th century. In 1990, it was estimated that more than 5,000 people could speak Hopi as a native language (approximately 75% of the population); at least 40 of them were monolingual in Hopi.
The Hopi are a Native American tribe, who primarily live on the 2,531.773 sq mi (6,557.26 km 2) Hopi Reservation in northeastern Arizona. As of 2010, there were 18,327 Hopi in the United States, according to the 2010 census. The Hopi language is one of the 30 of the Uto-Aztecan language family. The majority of Hopi people are enrolled in the Hopi Tribe of Arizona but some are enrolled in the Colorado River Indian Tribes. Current practice is to either use a non-Hopi or English name or the parent's chosen Hopi name. A person may also change the name upon initiation into one of the religious societies, such as the Kachina society, or with a major life event.
Status of Hopi language. Hopi elders, who are fluent Hopi speakers, say that the language is the root of perpetuating Hopi culture (Mesa Media, 2005). Hopi fluency began to decline during the era when children were forced into local mission and Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA) boarding schools. Mesa Media, Inc. produces learning materials in the Hopi language by Hopi people for Hopi people. Concepts for CD's, DVD's and books come directly from traditional Hopi perspectives on dry farming, food, animals, colors, and cardinal directions.
Hopi (Hopi: Hopilavayi) hopílavayi is A-Uto aztecan language spoken by The hopi (people A pueblo) group of Northeastern, ARIZONA, usa although today Some hopi are Monolingual english. speakers The use of the language has gradually declined over the course of the 20th century. In 1990, it was estimated that more than 5,000 people could speak Hopi as a native language (approximately 75% of the population); at least 40 of them were monolingual in Hopi.
The1998 language survey of 200 Hopi people reflects the current state of the Hopi language: 100% of Hopi elders (60 years or older) are fluent, while fluency in adults (age 40-59) is only 84%, 50% in young adults (age 20-39), and 5% in children (age 2-19) (HCPO, 1998). Mesa Media, Inc. produces learning materials in the Hopi language by Hopi people for Hopi people. Concepts for CD's, DVD's and books come directly from traditional Hopi perspectives on dry farming, food, animals, colors, and cardinal directions.
Welcome! The Hopi Tribe is a sovereign nation located in northeastern Arizona. The reservation occupies part of Coconino and Navajo counties, encompasses more than 1.5 million acres, and is made up of 12 villages on three mesas.
Hopi is an Uto-Aztecan language spoken by approximately 5,000 people in northeastern Arizona in the USA. Although there are relatively few speakers, the language is still being passed on to children and about three quarters of the Hopi people speak Hopi as a native language. There are four main varieties of Hopi: First Mesa or Polacca, Mishongnovi or Toreva, Shipaulovi or Sipaulovi, and Third Mesa or Oraibi. They were identified by Benjamin Whorf, who was the first to analyse the Hopi language and who focused on the Mishongnovi variety. There is a Hopi-English dictionary edited by Emory Sekaquaptewa, and the language is promoted by the Hopi Literacy Project. Hopi has an interesting way of expressing concepts of time and space: for something that happens a long way from a speaker is described as having happened in the distant past
Hopi (Hopi: Hopilavayi) hopílavayi is A-Uto aztecan language spoken by The hopi (people A pueblo) group of Northeastern, ARIZONA, usa although today Some hopi are Monolingual english. Speakers the use of the language has gradually declined over the course of the 20th. century The use of the language has gradually declined over the course of the 20th century. In 1990, it was estimated that more than 5,000 people could speak Hopi as a native language (approximately 75% of the population); at least 40 of them were monolingual in Hopi.
(Click here for Hopi pronunciation guide). Click here to see Hopi vocabulary words compared to words in related Uto-Aztecan languages: Uto-Aztecan Indian Words. Here are some themed Hopi word lists we have put together and illustrated for language learners. Feel free to print them out for classroom purposes!
Hopi speakers have traditionally used Hopi as the language of communication with Zuni. They have also been in close contact with a Tanoan language for over 300 years since the Arizona Tewa, who speak Tewa, moved from the Galisteo Basin following the Pueblo Revolt to reside on First Mesa. The use of the language has gradually declined over the course of the 20th century. In 1990, it was estimated that more than 5,000 people could speak Hopi as a native language (approximately 75% of the population); at least 40 of them were monolingual in Hopi.