Up Close & Personal is so different from the facts of Savitch's life that if Didion and Dunne still have their first draft, they probably could sell it as a completely different movie. Print Page Tweet. Up Close & Personal reminds me of nothing so much as those career novels for teenagers, in which a plucky youngster rises to the top, guided by a helpful mentor.
This phrase up close and personal is not found in any dictionary I checked, and its uses in the Internet did not give me any clear idea of what it means. But thanks to you, I seem to have gotten up close and personal with this phrase. This is a very plausible tone to take when using this expression, and it strongly implies violence. He tried to get up close and personal with me means something a lot like he got in my face.. It can also have a sexual connotation, again to me it has a subtext of bringing a long-building situation to a head. After weeks of crowding me in the hallway and giving me 'meaningful' looks from across the room, she finally got up close and personal with it.. Finally, it's an expression that lends itself to humor
Best Answer: it means alot 1. to get up close and personall means to get close 2. personal means get deep like your deep personall emotions 3.to get personal with someone is to hurt someone close to them. like when someone hurts your brother you say oh now hes getting personal. Report Abuse. getting personal is like saying things that should be a secret to the world but your saying it or someone else.(bad way) it also means that when your dancing or that it attracting the other person in various ways (if you know what i mean) (good way). Mangaman123 · 6 years ago. Thumbs up.
(For details start with: Google Search, [ jim mckay up close and personal ].). The phrase is not original to Jim McKay, but he popularized it and it remained associated with him in the public mind for the rest of his life. The idea of the personality pieces (they’ll probably be called “ up-close and personal ”) can be shown by the contrasting thoughts of two American swimmers. One piece is on Mark Spitz, the brash young Californian by way of Indiana University … . (Jim McKay. My Wide World, Macmillan, 1973, p. 120.) [ emphasis added ].
Question: What does it mean to have a personal relationship with God?. Answer: Having a personal relationship with God begins the moment we realize our need for Him, admit we are sinners, and in faith receive Jesus Christ as Savior. God, our heavenly Father, has always desired to be close to us, to have a relationship with us.
Let me make clear about usage: (1) up close and personal means i) to get to know very well about somebody or something or have a good knowledge about something, and can indicate ii) use of violence or sexual relationship depending on the situation due to its physical nearness implication the phrase conveys. This is a very plausible tone to take when using this expression, and it strongly implies violence. He tried to get up close and personal with me means something a lot like he got in my face.. It can also have a sexual connotation, again to me it has a subtext of bringing a long-building situation to a head. After weeks of crowding me in the hallway and giving me 'meaningful' looks from across the room, she finally got up close and personal with it.. Finally, it's an expression that lends itself to humor
The idea of the personality pieces (they’ll probably be called “up-close and personal”) can be shown by the contrasting thoughts of two American swimmers. One piece is on Mark Spitz, the brash young Californian by way of Indiana University … . (Jim McKay. The idea of the personality pieces (they’ll probably be called “ up-close and personal ”) can be shown by the contrasting thoughts of two American swimmers. One piece is on Mark Spitz, the brash young Californian by way of Indiana University … . (Jim McKay. My Wide World, Macmillan, 1973, p. 120.) [ emphasis added ].
Up close and personal came from a segment on ABC Sports where they would show an Olympic athlete in their everyday surroundings or whilst training for the 1972 Olympic games in Munich. The idea of the personality pieces (they’ll probably be called “ up-close and personal ”) can be shown by the contrasting thoughts of two American swimmers. One piece is on Mark Spitz, the brash young Californian by way of Indiana University … . (Jim McKay. My Wide World, Macmillan, 1973, p. 120.) [ emphasis added ].
Up Close & Personal is a 1996 American romantic drama film directed by Jon Avnet, and starring Robert Redford as a news director and Michelle Pfeiffer as his protegee, protegée With Stockard, Channing Joe mantegna And Kate nelligan in supporting. roles This article is about the 1996 motion picture. For the Vicki Genfan album, see Up Close & Personal (Vicki Genfan album) . For the Angie Martinez album, see Up Close and Personal. For the Shania Twain DVD, see Up!