7. Deep-fry whole turkey at 3-1/2 minutes per pound and deep fry a bone-in turkey breast at 7-8 minutes per pound at 350°F. A breast takes longer to cook because the whole turkey has a large cavity which when filled with the oil helps the bird cook from the inside as well as the outside.
Deep-Frying the Turkey. Once the temperature of the oil is back up to 325° to 350°F start timing the cooking process. Cooking time is figured at a rate of 3 minutes per pound plus 5 minutes. Be sure to monitor the temperature of the oil throughout the cooking time.
1 Alternatively, you can put the turkey itself in the empty pot and add enough water to just cover (1-2 inches above) the turkey. 2  Again, the level should be at least 5 or 6 inches (12.7 or 15.2 cm) below the rim. 3  Take the turkey out and measure the depth of the water with a ruler.
When deep-fat frying a turkey, it is best if the turkey is 10 to 12 pounds or smaller for ease of handling and better results. Large turkeys are difficult to handle, which increases safety concerns when cooking with hot oil.
Not let her fry. With whole turkeys, you can estimate on about three minutes per pound to cook. Remove turkey and check the temperature with a meat thermometer. The temperature should reach 170° F. in the breast and 180° F. in the thigh.
The Turkey-Size Matters Smaller turkeys, 8 pounds to 10 pounds and turkey parts, such as breast, wings, drumsticks and thighs, are best for frying. Size does matter as a 12 pound to 14 pound turkey is the maximum size bird that should be successfully deep fried.
BASIC COOKING RULES: When frying a deep fried turkey, you cook it 3 1/2 minutes per pound at 35 0 F. For a crispier skin, add an extra five minutes to your frying time. For best results, fry a 16 pound turkey or less.
1 Once the oil is heated, slowly lower the turkey into the fryer. 2  The turkey may not be totally immersed in the oil. 3  This may cause the top part of the breast to remain white even though it is cooked to the proper end temperature. 4  Set the timer and cook the turkey about 3 to 4 minutes per pound.
The best way to get the turkey into the oil is to use the coat-hanger-shaped apparatus that comes with your frying rig. Cook for about 3 minutes per pound for a whole turkey, approximately 45 minutes for a 15 pound turkey, only 36 mintues for a 12 pounder!.