Occupational safety and health (OSH) also commonly referred to as occupational health and safety (OHS) or workplace health and safety (WHS) is an area concerned with the safety, health and welfare of people engaged in work or employment. 
Occupational Safety and Health Definitions. An injury or illness is considered by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration to be work-related if an event or exposure in the work environment either caused or contributed to the resulting condition or significantly aggravated a pre-existing condition. Nature of injury or illness names the principal physical characteristic of a disabling condition, such as sprain/strain, cut/laceration, or carpal tunnel syndrome. Part of body affected is directly linked to the nature of injury or illness cited, for example, back sprain, finger cut, or wrist and
occupational disease. n. an illness resulting from long-term employment in a particular type of work, such as black lung disease among miners, or cancer among asbestos installers. Occupational Disease. A disease resulting from exposure during employment to conditions or substances that are detrimental to health (such as black lung disease contracted by miners).
Occupational Illness Law & Legal Definition. An occupational illness (or disease) is defined by Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OSHA) as, any abnormal condition or disorder, other than one resulting from an occupational injury, caused by exposure to factors associated with employment.. The law requires companies using hazardous materials to maintain Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS). The MSDS lists a particular product's ingredients, any known health hazards, precautions for safe handling, and permitted exposure limits.
occupational disease, a disease that results from a particular type of employment, usually from the effects of long-term exposure to specific substances or continuous or repetitive physical acts. occupational disease, n a disease that results from a particular employment, usually from the effects of long-term exposure to specific substances or from the continuous or repetitive physical acts. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter.
Occupational Disease Law & Legal Definition. Occupational disease is any ailment that occurs as a result of work or any occupational activity. An occupational disease is identified when it is shown that it is more prevalent in a given body of workers than in the general population, or any other worker populations.
An “occupational disease” is any disease contracted primarily as a result of an exposure to risk factors arising from work activity. “Work-related diseases” have multiple causes, where factors in the work environment may play a role, together with other risk factors, in the development of such diseases. 
It is an aspect of occupational safety and health. An occupational disease is typically identified when it is shown that it is more prevalent in a given body of workers than in the general population, or in other worker populations. Therefore the term work-related diseases is utilized to describe diseases of occupational origin. This term however would then include both compensable and non-compensable diseases that have occupational origins.