2. Halophiles: This type of bacteria can only live in bodies of concentrated salt water. such as the Great Salt Lake (Utah) and the Dead Sea (Middle East). 3. Thermoacidophiles: A third phylum includes bacteria that are found in the hot, acidic waters of sulfur springs. 1. Methanogens: This type of bacteria produces methane. Many such species live in the intestines of animals. They help breakdown food in the intestines and also provide essential nutrients.
Gram-positive bacteria bind a stain known as Gram's stain to the peptidoglycan in their cell walls. Gram-negative bacteria have more complex cell walls and less peptidoglycan and therefore are unable to bind the stain to their cell walls. 
Eubacteria are far more common than archaebacteria. The majority of types of prokaryotes (of which there are about 400) fit under this category. More eubacteria can be found in a person's mouth than there are people on the planet. They can serve numerous different purposes from decomposing to causing disease.
Eubacteria A kingdom (or subkingdom) of prokaryotic organisms that comprise present-day bacteria. They include aerobic and anaerobic species and occur in virtually all habitats. Some live in or on the bodies of other organisms, and may cause disease. Eubacteria are prokaryotic, meaning their cells do not have defined, membrane-limited nuclei. As a group they display an impressive range of biochemical diversity, and their numerous members are found in every habitat on Earth.
Eubacteria. The Eubacteria, also called just bacteria, are one of the three main domains of life, along with the Archaea and the Eukarya. Eubacteria are prokaryotic, meaning their cells do not have defined, membrane-limited nuclei. As a group they display an impressive range of biochemical diversity, and their numerous members are found in every habitat on Earth.
Archaebacteria are the oldest organisms living on the Earth. They are unicellular prokaryotes and belong to the kingdom, Archaea. Remember that prokaryotes do not have a nucleus that surrounds their Chromosomes. All Eukaryotes, including animal and plants have their chromosomes contained within a nucleus. They are found in these place also swamps, deep‐sea waters, sewage treatment facilities, and even in the stomachs of cows. This type of bacteria is different from the common type of bacteria that we see every day called Eubacteria. Eubacteria are microscopic single‐celled organisms.
Save. Before the invention of microscopes, the world was thought to only have two kingdoms, plants and animals. Thanks to advancements in technology and the invention of the microscope, the system of classifications now consists of six kingdoms: protista, animilia, archaebacteria, plantae, eubacteria and fungi. Eubacteria have been on earth almost as long as archaebacteria. When washing your hands, you're usually trying to get rid of this type of bacteria, what we often call germs.. While most eubacteria is beneficial, some like Streptococci and Esherischia coli (E. coli) are harmful to human health.
Depending on the species, bandicoots may be found in a variety of habitats. Their preferred habitat is anywhere their food source is-that is, grubs, larvae and other inverte … brates. They prefer open grasslands or grassy feeding grounds and commonly feed in suburban backyards, as long as cats and dogs are not present. The habitat of all lice is the body of the host, be it … avian or mammal. They feed on the skin and other debris on their host's body. Some even feed on blood. Lice do not only, or even mainly, live on humans, and their scalps. There are many different types, and some feed on many different species depending on their type.