Regulatory Authority. The Clean Air Act, as amended, both directs and authorizes the U.S EPA to establish standards regulating the emissions of mobile sources and to establish a compliance program to implement and enforce the mobile source emission control program. In establishing emission standards and elements of the compliance program, EPA must follow the requirements of the Clean Air Act and the Administrative Procedures Act in the Agency's rulemaking activities.
The Clean Water Act (CWA) is the primary federal law in the United States governing water pollution. Its objective is to restore and maintain the chemical, physical, and biological integrity of the nation's waters by preventing point and nonpoint pollution sources, providing assistance to publicly owned treatment works for the improvement of wastewater treatment, and maintaining the integrity of wetlands.
Clean Air Act: A Summary of the Act and Its Major Requirements Congressional Research Service 15 Permits 8 The Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 added a Title V to the Act which requires states to administer a comprehensive permit program for the operation of sources emitting air pollutants. Clean Air Act: A Summary of the Act and Its Major Requirements Congressional Research Service 6 Serious Areas • Meet all requirements for moderate areas. • Reduce definition of a major source of VOCs from emissions of 100 tons per year to 50 tons per year for the purpose of imposing RACT.
In the Clean Air Act Extension of 1970, Congress greatly expanded the federal mandate by requiring comprehensive federal and state regulations for both industrial and mobile sources. The law established four new regulatory programs: 1  National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS). Under the Clean Air Act states are required to submit a plan for non-attainment areas to reach attainment status as soon as possible but in no more than five years, based on the severity of the air pollution and the difficulty posed by obtaining cleaner air.
The Clean Air Act was the first major environmental law in the United States to include a provision for citizen suits. Numerous state and local governments have enacted similar legislation, either implementing federal programs or filling in locally important gaps in federal programs. Under the Clean Air Act states are required to submit a plan for non-attainment areas to reach attainment status as soon as possible but in no more than five years, based on the severity of the air pollution and the difficulty posed by obtaining cleaner air.
The Clean Air Act of 1963 was the first federal legislation regarding air pollution control. It established a federal program within the U.S. Public Health Service and authorized research into techniques for monitoring and controlling air pollution. Under the Clean Air Act states are required to submit a plan for non-attainment areas to reach attainment status as soon as possible but in no more than five years, based on the severity of the air pollution and the difficulty posed by obtaining cleaner air.
Congress passed the first legislation to address air pollution with the 1955 Air Pollution Control Act that provided funds to the U.S. Public Health service, but did not formulate pollution regulation. However, the Clean Air Act in 1963, created a research and regulatory program in the U.S. Public Health Service. Under the Clean Air Act states are required to submit a plan for non-attainment areas to reach attainment status as soon as possible but in no more than five years, based on the severity of the air pollution and the difficulty posed by obtaining cleaner air.
In 1990, Congress again strengthened the motor vehicle program. The 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments established tighter standards for automobiles, trucks, and buses, called for the control of nonroad engines, strengthened EPA's in-use compliance, and established requirements for both conventional and alternative fuels.