Practice with the artificial limb may begin as soon as 10 to 14 days after surgery. Ideally, the wound should fully heal in about four to eight weeks. But the physical and emotional adjustment to losing a limb can be a long process. 
Your health care provider will tell you how long it will take before your amputation is fully healed and when you can go back to work. This depends on many factors, including your age, type of work and medical condition. You will probably have pain in your foot for several days after your surgery. Ask your health care provider if you can clean the wound gently with mild soap. Do not rub the wound. After your wound heals, keep it open to the air. After dressings have been removed, wash your foot with mild soap and water every day. Do not soak it.
After the physical wound heals, many patients face emotional challenges caused by the loss of the limb and the possible loss of independence and comfort that go with it. The emotional pain may require counseling and may take some time to heal. Amputees who get prostheses, or artificial limbs, may be able to start using their prostheses as soon as a week after their operation. The amount of time it takes to adjust to this new device varies depending on the situation.
The Amputation Procedure. An amputation usually requires a hospital stay of five to 14 days or more, depending on the surgery and complications. The procedure itself may vary, depending on the limb or extremity being amputated and the patient's general health. Amputation of the leg -- either above or below the knee -- is the most common amputation surgery.
It depends on the cause of the amputation and the type of amputation. First there is the hospital stay. It can be a few days to weeks. All depends on the cause of amputation and how you are after. Then it can be a month to 6 weeks to heal or longer depending on the amputation and why it is taken off. If the leg comes off a diabetic or a smoker it may take longer.
In this article. Amputation is the surgical removal of all or part of a limb or extremity such as an arm, leg, foot, hand, toe, or finger. About 1.8 million Americans are living with amputations. Amputation of the leg -- either above or below the knee -- is the most common amputation surgery.
The healing rates for below-and above-knee amputations vary considerably. It is thought that a total of 90% of above-knee major amputations heal, 70% primarily, whereas for below-knee amputations, primary healing rates range between 30% and 92%, with a re-amputation rate of up to 30% [8] .
After a toe amputation, you will be able to go home the same day. A family member or friend will need to drive you home. You may need to use a walker and a wheelchair. Do not put any weight on your wound or let it touch the ground. Make sure the wound stays dry and clean. Do not: Ask your health care provider if you can clean the wound gently with mild soap. Do not rub the wound. After your wound heals, keep it open to the air. After dressings have been removed, wash your foot with mild soap and water every day. Do not soak it.
After surgery, the wound from an amputation may take one or two months to heal. A patient will probably stay in the hospital for up to two weeks, provided there are no complications. Amputees who get prostheses, or artificial limbs, may be able to start using their prostheses as soon as a week after their operation. The amount of time it takes to adjust to this new device varies depending on the situation.
He or she may recommend a splint to protect the area while it heals. After about 24 to 48 hours, your doctor may recommend that you soak your finger daily in a solution of warm water and peroxide or betadine. After 48 hours, range-of-motion finger exercises may be started. Complete healing usually takes 3 to 5 weeks. Larger tissue injury. If the wound is left to heal itself, the new skin around the wound may not be strong enough. In these cases, surgery is often required to ensure healing. During surgery, a piece of skin (skin graft) is taken from another site, such as the palm of your hand, and used to cover the injury.