1 When purchasing tiles, measure the area where your backsplash will be to determine how many tiles to buy. 2  Allow for about 10 - 15 percent waste due to breakage during cutting. //d5kh2btv85w9n.cloudfront.net/5/50/Tile a Backsplash Step 4.360p.mp4. 1  To install the first tile, simply position it on the wall and firmly press it into the tile mastic. 2  Push each subsequent tile firmly into place, working out from your first tile.
Let the tile sit for at least 30 minutes, then apply a grout sealer if you're using natural stone (like slate) or unglazed quarry tile. The sealer keeps the grout from sticking to the tile (it's not needed for nonporous tiles such as ceramic). Pour the sealer on a sponge, then wipe on just enough to dampen the tiles. You'll also need mastic adhesive, premium grout and grout sealer. You can rent a wet saw to cut the tiles (about $40 for four hours, or $55 for the day). For more tile tips and projects, click “ Tile ” or search “ Tile ” in the search box above.
The prices for getting a new tile backsplash installed will depend on which product you will use and who will perform installation. There is a very huge price range for backsplash tile. Some products might cost as low as $1 s/f and some $20 s/f plus there will be additional cost for tile adhesive and grout if necessary. For the installation of tile backsplash and apply grout prepare to pay $10 - $20. Tile is very long lasting product and it can easily serve its decoration function on a backsplash for 25 – 30 years or more. In majority of cases it won’t be a problem with longevity, but with appearance. Let say in 10 – 15 years you might just want to replace old fashion backsplash with some new and modern product.
This is a video of two homeowners installing a new glass tile backsplash in the kitchen. All items were bought at the local hardware store for about $200.00. This video shows how to install around the light sockets, how to cut the glass, and basically how to do a complete install from start to finish. 
sep. 2013. How to install a simple subway tile kitchen backsplash. Depending on the tile that is to be installed, and where it will be installed, it is sometimes appropriate to use mastic as an adhesive for the tile.
Step 11: Seal the tile. Once the grout is fully dry, usually 24 hours to 3 days later, apply grout sealant to protect your backsplash from staining. After the sealer is dry, you can add a small amount of latex caulk to the base of your backsplash where it rests against your countertop. Step 1: Measure your wall. To determine the amount of tile you need for your kitchen backsplash, calculate the wall space. If you only have one section to cover, simply multiply the width and height of the wall to get a square footage. The square footage determines how much tile you’ll need for the project.
Wait 24 hours after installing the tile to add the grout. We used a premium grout that has a consistent color and resists stains better than standard grout. Since the backsplash will be subject to splatters and stains from cooking and food prep, we recommend spending the extra money for a premium grout. You'll also need mastic adhesive, premium grout and grout sealer. You can rent a wet saw to cut the tiles (about $40 for four hours, or $55 for the day). For more tile tips and projects, click “ Tile ” or search “ Tile ” in the search box above.
With a proper installation tile backsplash will last for many years. Tile is very long lasting product and it can easily serve its decoration function on a backsplash for 25 – 30 years or more. In majority of cases it won’t be a problem with longevity, but with appearance. Let say in 10 – 15 years you might just want to replace old fashion backsplash with some new and modern product.
Before you apply mastic and begin tiling, do a dry run by lining up the edge of one tile with the center mark, then place tiles side by side to determine how many tiles will be needed and the width of the end pieces (image 4). Don’t forget to include spacers between each tile, if required. Level Countertop for Tile Backsplash. Check that the countertop is level. If it is not, stand a tile at the lowest spot and mark a level line on the wall at the tile’s top — this will be your starting point.
You’ll then want to figure out how much tile or other material you’ll need. Barsoum says a good rule of thumb is to add 10 percent to the amount of square feet of space. If you have 50 square feet for a backsplash, for example, order 55 square feet of tile. This will account for breakage and mistakes on the job. 