On March 7, 1901, the Twenty-seventh Texas Legislature adopted the bluebonnet, flower of the annual legume Lupinus subcarnosus, as the state flower. The flower's popular name derives from its resemblance to a sunbonnet. It has also been called buffalo clover, wolf flower, and, in Spanish, el conejo (the rabbit). 
Named for its color and, it is said, the resemblance of its petal to a woman's sunbonnet, the bluebonnet is the state flower of Texas. It blooms in the early spring and can be readily found in fields and along the roadsides throughout central and south Texas. 
Definition of BLUEBONNET. 1. a: a wide flat round cap of blue wool formerly worn in Scotland b: one that wears such a cap; specifically: scot. 2. : either of two low-growing annual lupines (Lupinus subcarnosus or L. texensis) of Texas with silky foliage and blue flowers. See bluebonnet defined for kids
On March 7, 1901, Lupinus subcarnosus became the only species of bluebonnet recognized as the state flower of Texas; however, Lupinus texensis emerged as the favorite of most Texans. So, in 1971, the Texas Legislature made any similar species of Lupinus that could be found in Texas the state flower. Species often called bluebonnets include: 1  Lupinus texensis, Texas bluebonnet or Texas lupine. 2  Lupinus havardii, Big Bend bluebonnet or Chisos bluebonnet. 3  Lupinus argenteus, silvery lupine. 4  Lupinus concinnus, Bajada lupine.
Indigenous to Texas, the bluebonnet was adopted as the state flower in 1901. It is a member of the legume family, genus Lupinus, and grows low to the ground, with stems sprouting conical clusters of tiny blue flowers that resemble prairie bonnets. 
Blue bonnet or bluebonnet may refer to: 1  Blue Bonnet (brand) , a brand of margarine. 2  Bluebonnet (bird) an Australian parrot of the genus Northiella. 3  Bluebonnet (plant) , various lupin species. 
How to Grow Bluebonnets. With a little patience, Central Texas gardeners can create a patch of bluebonnets in their own yards. Five species of Lupinus grow in Texas and all have been designated as the state flower. The most common species is Lupinus texensis, the Texas bluebonnet, which starts flowering in mid-March. 
Bluebonnet at the Ivy Reservoir, Texas. Bluebonnet is a name given to any number of species of the genus Lupinus predominantly found in southwestern United States and is collectively the state flower of Texas. The shape of the petals on the flower resembles the bonnet worn by pioneer women to shield them from the sun. Species often called bluebonnets include: 1  Lupinus texensis, Texas bluebonnet or Texas lupine. 2  Lupinus havardii, Big Bend bluebonnet or Chisos bluebonnet. 3  Lupinus argenteus, silvery lupine. 4  Lupinus concinnus, Bajada lupine.
Bluebonnet. The bluebonnet is not only the state flower-Texas has also designated an official bluebonnet tartan, song, city (Ennis, Texas), festival (Chappell Hill Bluebonnet Festival), and trail (also in Ennis). The bluebonnet flower is named for the blue color and sunbonnet-shaped petals. The home of the bluebonnet (the North American prairie) is one of the most endangered ecosystems on earth. The grasslands of North America began to form about 20 million years ago, but in some areas up to 99 percent of the prairie has been destroyed (in just the last 125-150 years).