How Long Can I Store Frozen Foods. Freezing cannot improve the flavor or texture of any food, but when properly done it can preserve most of the quality of the fresh product. Knowing how long a particular food can be stored in the freezer is not as simple as it sounds. 
Frozen Pork Storage. Raw pork chops can be safely frozen for up to six months. Raw pork roasts can stay in the freezer for as long as one year. Cooked pork products can be frozen for up to four months. After this time, the meat might be dry and it will have less flavor, although it will still be safe to eat
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Pork should not be frozen for more than 6 months for flavours sake. Basically if it's colour has started to change due to freezer burn then give up on it, but it should be safe to eat. 
Freezing Freshly Butchered Pork. How you prepare pork tenderloin for freezing is important. For long-term freezing of fresh pork from the butchers, it is best to wrap the polystyrene tray the fresh pork comes in with cling wrap to prevent air from entering. Pork tenderloins are a popular cut of pork. Freezing can keep pork tenderloins on hand without the risk of bacteria, however, they must be frozen properly to extend their shelf life.
Freezing Time. Ideally, you should eat your pork tenderloin within three months for maximum nutrition and taste. However, it can be kept for four to 12 months in the freezer if properly stored and wrapped. Pork tenderloins are a popular cut of pork. Freezing can keep pork tenderloins on hand without the risk of bacteria, however, they must be frozen properly to extend their shelf life.
No-thaw Cooking. It is perfectly safe to cook meats from the frozen state. Cooking will be approximately 50% longer than the recommended time for fully thawed or fresh meat and poultry. 1  DO NOT thaw meats on the counter or in hot water. 2  DO NOT leave meat at room temperature for more than two hours. 
Pork Cindy 2015-04-21T07:20:32+00:00. How long does pork last? The shelf life of pork depends on a variety of factors, such as the sell by date, the preparation method and how the pork was stored. For a long-term option, you can freeze your pork while preserving its taste if you use a freezer safe container. Some benefits of proper food storage include eating healthier, cutting food costs and helping the environment by avoiding waste.
Warnings. 1  Transfer leftover pulled pork to freezer bags and then to the freezer within 2 hours after the meat has finished cooking. 2  This prevents dangerous bacteria from growing on the meat, which could make you sick if you ingest it. ( 3 See Reference 3). 
Wrap Pork for the Freezer. If the pork is cooked, pack it in a rigid container, like a plastic storage container with a tight lid meant to be used in the freezer. Leave some head room. Raw pork chops can be safely frozen for up to six months. Raw pork roasts can stay in the freezer for as long as one year. Cooked pork products can be frozen for up to four months.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Generally, fresh cuts of pork, like roasts, chops and tenderloin can be kept well-wrapped in the freezer up to 6 months. Well-wrapped ground pork can be kept for about 3 months in the freezer. 