Usually planted in the early fall, cool-season grass seeds prefer daytime temperatures ranging from 60 to 75 F. With this temperature range, the soil itself is usually between 50 and 65 F -- the right environment for germination. If your seeds remain at their ideal temperature range and are planted no more than 1/4 inch deep, you should see germination after three weeks. It is critical to keep the top 1/2 inch of soil moist with a misty spray so the seeds continue to absorb moisture as the seedling grows larger.
Between 60 & 75 Degrees (Soil Temp of 50 - 65°). Cool season grass germinates best when the soil temperatures are between 50 and 65 degrees F. These temperatures usually occur when the daytime air temperatures are between 60 and 75 degrees. High temperatures of summer can cause these plants to go dormant and thus planting during summer is asking for problems. Start planting your cool season grass seeds when the temperatures reach 75 and are dropping as fall / winter approaches. Or have reached 60 and are rising in the spring.
Cool season grass such as Fescue, germinate best when the soil temperatures are between 50&deg and 65&deg degrees F. These soil temperatures usually occur when the daytime air temperatures are between 60&deg and 75&deg degrees. Fall is the best time to plant fescue and other cool season grass. Planting in the Fall presents the least risk of planting failure fo
PLANT WHEN DAYTIME TEMPERATURES ARE BETWEEN 60 & 75 DEGREES: Cool season grasses grow best when the soil temperatures are between 50 and 65 degrees F. These temperatures usually occur when the daytime air temperatures are between 60 and 75 degrees. High temperatures of summer can cause these plants to go dormant and thus planting during summer is asking for problems. These year-round green grasses are best planted in the fall and spring of each year. Early fall is considered by turf experts to be the best planting date because this allows for more growing time under ideal growth conditions (fall and spring growing season). Spring is considered second best.
The answer depends on the type of grass you're planting. Cool-season grasses grow best when temperatures are between 60-80 degrees. Early fall is the best time to seed because of its shorter days, cooler nights, and heavier dews. 
Temperature. Grass seed germinates when the soil temperature is 65 degrees and above. It's important to understand that it is the soil temperature, and not the surrounding air temperature, that is the trigger for seed germination. Grass seed needs a minimum temperature of 65 degrees and will germinate faster at higher soil temperatures as long as the increased heat doesn't dry out the seeds and soil.
The BEST time to plant Bermuda Grass Seed is in late spring / early summer after soil temperatures are 65-70+ degrees or higher and all danger of freeze or frost is past. 
Submit. Rye grass seed sprouts in soil temperatures of 50 to 65 degrees Fahrenheit and air temperatures 10 degrees higher. Cool-season grasses, both annual and perennial rye grasses perform best in spring and fall and deteriorate in the summer heat. Keywords: rye grass temperatures, ryegrass best temperature, rye grass seed. 
The best time to grow grass is in the spring or fall. Ideal air temperature is between 45 and 75 degrees. The perfect soil temperature is 55 to 65 degrees. In most parts of the country, spring and fall are the best times to grow grass. 
When To Plant Fescue Grass. Fall is the best time to plant fescue and other cool season grass. Planting in the Fall presents the least risk of planting failure for cool season grass. Plant your cool season grass seed when the fall temperatures reach 75&deg and are dropping as winter approaches. Alternately the second choice is to plant in spring when spring temperatures have reached 60 ° and are rising in the spring