Cinnamon is a spice that comes from the bark of trees from the Cinnamomum family. Cinnamon is used in cooking for both sweet and savory foods. Cinnamon is also used in room scents, perfumes and in other fragrant products. The trees that produce cinnamon originate from South East Asia including the modern day countries of Sri Lanka, India, Indonesia, China, Bangladesh and Vietnam. It is still produced in many of these countries, but it is also grown in the West Indies, Brazil, Madagascar, Zanzibar and Egypt.
Cassia cinnamon comes from a different plant and belongs to one of three varieties: Cinnamomum cassia, Cinnamomum aromaticaum, Cinnamomum burmannii. Cassia is native to Southeast Asia and can be found most often in Indonesia, Vietnam, and China. There are two types of cinnamon grown and harvested today: Ceylon cinnamon, which is also known as true cinnamon, and cassia, which is usually sold and marketed as cinnamon in the United States.
Do you know where cinnamon comes from? It's a spice we use all the time, but do you know where it grows and how it comes to be in our cinnamon buns? Cinnamon is one of those sweet spices that is so versatile -- in and outside the kitchen -- that we might even take it for granted sometimes. Specifically, it comes from the inner layer of bark derived from dozens of varieties of evergreen trees that belong to the genus Cinnamomum. Cinnamon farmers first shave the outer bark off the trees, and then shave off the inner bark -- the cinnamon layer.
Cinnamon is the bark of a tree. The most common cinnamon sold in North America is from the Cassia, it is generally sweeter and more aromatic than true cinnamon but has a … n astringent edge. True Cinnamon (Ceylon) is from Sri Lanka and is the bark of an evergreen tree related to the bay laurel. The most common cinnamon sold in North America is from the Cassia, it is generally sweeter and more aromatic than true cinnamon but has a
Cinnamon is the inner bark of a tropical evergreen tree. Cinnamon is the bark of a tree. The most common cinnamon sold in North America is from the Cassia, it is generally sweeter and more aromatic than true cinnamon but has an astringent edge. True Cinnamon (Ceylon) is from Sri Lanka and is the bark of an evergreen tree related to the bay laurel.
The English word cinnamon and cassia, attested in English since the 15th century, derives from the Greek κιννάμωμον kinnamōmon (kinnámōmon later), kinnamon Kínnamon via latin And medieval french. intermediate forms While Cinnamomum verum is sometimes considered to be  true cinnamon , most cinnamon in international commerce is derived from related species, which are also referred to as  cassia  to distinguish them from true cinnamon.
Cinnamon (/ˈsɪnəmən/ SIN-ə-mən) is a spice obtained from the inner bark of several trees from the genus Cinnamomum that is used in both sweet and savoury foods. While Cinnamomum verum is sometimes considered to be  true cinnamon , most cinnamon in international commerce is derived from related species, which are also referred to as  cassia  to distinguish them from true cinnamon.
Where Does Cinnamon Come From. Cinnamon spice comes from the bark of the cinnamon tree, Cinnamomum zeylanicum, which is native to Sri Lanka (Ceylon). Today, cinnamon is grown in many tropical areas, including Java, Burma, Borneo and throughout South America.
Ceylon Cinnamon. Ceylon or true cinnamon usually grows in Sri Lanka and South India. The cinnamon tree is a type of evergreen with a soft bark. It is known by the names Cinnamomum zeylanicum and Cinnamomum verum. There are two types of cinnamon grown and harvested today: Ceylon cinnamon, which is also known as true cinnamon, and cassia, which is usually sold and marketed as cinnamon in the United States.
The English word cinnamon and cassia, attested in English since the 15th century, derives from the Greek κιννάμωμον kinnamōmon (kinnámōmon later), kinnamon Kínnamon via latin And medieval french. Intermediate Forms the greek in turn was borrowed From a, phoenician word which would have been akin to The related. hebrew qinnamon While Cinnamomum verum is sometimes considered to be  true cinnamon , most cinnamon in international commerce is derived from related species, which are also referred to as  cassia  to distinguish them from true cinnamon.