It's best not to give your baby raw eggs or lightly cooked eggs. Under-cooked eggs may contain salmonella bacteria, which can cause food poisoning. Also steer clear of any foods containing raw egg, such as mousses, homemade ice cream and homemade mayonnaise. You can scramble, poach, boil, or fry eggs for your baby, or share an omelette with him. See what your baby likes best. The important thing is to make sure that the egg is thoroughly cooked until both the yolk and white are solid. You can also give your baby foods containing cooked egg, such as custard.
Many pediatricians will say that using a whole egg in a baked good recipe (for the non-allergic baby/child) is fine for the infant who is between 8-9 months old. If your baby has had any reactions to foods that you are sure of, it is probably best to use a substitute for eggs in the recipes. The yolk of an egg does not contain the proteins that cause an allergy to eggs. It is very rare for anyone to be allergic to the yolk of an egg. The egg whites on the other hand, contain 4 proteins that can range from mildly to highly allergenic.
A: Eggs whites are one of the big allergy-triggering foods, so you should avoid introducing them to your baby until 12 months, though you can try egg yolks at around 9 months. 
Egg Yolk For Your Baby. Here is a great source of nutrients for your baby that is really easy to make. Do not feed your baby the egg white until he/she is at least 12 months old because of a high percentage of allergies to a protein found in egg white. The good news is that you can use those egg whites for yourself! Eggs are one of the most nutrient-rich foods available to us. 
When you give egg to your baby for the first time, just give him a mouthful or two to be on the safe side. Give it separately to other foods that can cause allergies, such as peanut butter, cow’s milk and fish. You can scramble, poach, boil, or fry eggs for your baby, or share an omelette with him. See what your baby likes best. The important thing is to make sure that the egg is thoroughly cooked until both the yolk and white are solid. You can also give your baby foods containing cooked egg, such as custard.
When you give egg to your baby for the first time, just give him a mouthful or two to be on the safe side. Give it separately to other foods that can cause allergies, such as peanut butter, cow’s milk and fish. That way you will be able to tell if the egg causes a reaction. You can scramble, poach, boil, or fry eggs for your baby, or share an omelette with him. See what your baby likes best. The important thing is to make sure that the egg is thoroughly cooked until both the yolk and white are solid. You can also give your baby foods containing cooked egg, such as custard.
Dietitian. Yes, you can give your baby eggs from six months, but it is best to make sure that they're fully cooked. You can scramble, poach, boil, or fry eggs for your baby, or share an omelette with him. See what your baby likes best. The important thing is to make sure that the egg is thoroughly cooked until both the yolk and white are solid. You can also give your baby foods containing cooked egg, such as custard.
So when can I give my baby eggs? Because of the fact that many children tend to be allergic to egg whites, doctors advise that you avoid egg whites altogether for the first year. If there is a family history of food allergy, then it might be worth excluding egg whites from your baby's diet for the first 2 years. Well cooked egg yolk, however, can be given to your baby from 6 months of age-although you may want to wait on egg yolk, too, if there is a family history of allergy. 
It is the white of the egg that is allergenic and not the yolk. A 2008 study, and many studies done after, indicated that waiting to introduce eggs to your baby may not prevent any atopic (i.e. ezcema) disease(s). The yolk of an egg does not contain the proteins that cause an allergy to eggs. It is very rare for anyone to be allergic to the yolk of an egg. The egg whites on the other hand, contain 4 proteins that can range from mildly to highly allergenic.
Answer: It Depends. Determining when to give your child eggs for the first time is your decision, but to be safe, you can always discuss it with your child’s doctor. As long as your child is between four to six months of age and can sit with support, he or she is ready to tackle solid foods. 