Note these are not catgut sutures, but polypropylene. Catgut suture is a type of surgical suture that is naturally degraded by the body's own proteolytic enzymes. Absorption is complete by 90 days, and full tensile strength remains for at least 7 days. Catgut suture has high knot-pull tensile strength and good knot security due to special excellent handling features. It is used for all surgical procedures including general closure, ophthalmic, orthopedics, obstetrics/gynecology and gastrointestinal surgery.
an absorbable sterile strand derived from the intestinal submucosa of sheep and fixed in formalin, used as a surgical ligature and suture. chromic catgut. treated with basic chromate salts; the suture does not absorb as much water as ordinary catgut and has a longer life and is stronger than the untreated product. surgical gut an absorbable sterile strand prepared from collagen derived from healthy mammals, used for absorbable sutures. It was originally prepared from the submucous layer of the intestines of sheep. Called also catgut.
an absorbable sterile strand derived from the intestinal submucosa of sheep and fixed in formalin, used as a surgical ligature and suture. chromic catgut. treated with basic chromate salts; the suture does not absorb as much water as ordinary catgut and has a longer life and is stronger than the untreated product. 
Brand name: PROGUT ®. Material: Catgut Chromic. Description: Surgical catgut suture is a sterile absorbable suture composed of purified connective tissue (collagen) derived from the submucosal layer of sheep (Ovine) and goat intestine. Catgut chromic sutures are absorbed by enzymatic hydrolysis and starts loosing tensile strength from 18-21 days on implantation. Catgut sutures are treated with chromic salt to enhance absorption period and reduce any adverse tissue reaction. Catgut sutures are available in dark brown colour.
2. catgut-a strong cord made from the intestines of sheep and used in surgery. gut. cord-a line made of twisted fibers or threads; the bundle was tied with a cord. suture-thread of catgut or silk or wire used by surgeons to stitch tissues together. cat·gut. n. A tough thin cord made from the treated and stretched intestines of certain animals, especially sheep, and used for stringing musical instruments and tennis rackets and for surgical ligatures. (ˈkaetˌɡʌt). ˈkætˌɡʌt
cat·gut. An absorbable surgical suture material made from the collagenous fibers of the submucosa of certain animals (for example, sheep or cows); misnamed catgut. [probably from kit, a small violin, through confusion with kit, a small cat]. /cat·gut/ (kat´gut) surgical gut. surgical gut an absorbable sterile strand prepared from collagen derived from healthy mammals, used for absorbable sutures. It was originally prepared from the submucous layer of the intestines of sheep. Called also catgut.
catgut. n. 1. a strong cord made from the dried intestines of sheep and other animals that is used for stringing certain musical instruments and sports rackets, and, when sterilized, as surgical ligatures. Often shortened to: gut. cat·gut. n. A tough thin cord made from the treated and stretched intestines of certain animals, especially sheep, and used for stringing musical instruments and tennis rackets and for surgical ligatures. (ˈkaetˌɡʌt). ˈkætˌɡʌt
suture ligature. Definitions: 1. a ligature applied by passing a needle with attached thread through or around a structure to more firmly secure the ligature. The definition information for suture ligature is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here.
PROGUT-Catgut Sutures. Progut is the brand name of catgut sutures manufactured by Dolphin Sutures. Catgut suture a natural absorbable suture and is obtained by longitudinally slitting the intestinal submucosa of sheep and goat, twisting the ribbons and joining them in wet condition giving monofilament finish. Catgut chromic sutures are absorbed by enzymatic hydrolysis and starts loosing tensile strength from 18-21 days on implantation. Catgut sutures are treated with chromic salt to enhance absorption period and reduce any adverse tissue reaction. Catgut sutures are available in dark brown colour.