Noun. 1. corolla - (botany) the whorl of petals of a flower that collectively form an inner floral envelope or layer of the perianth; we cultivate the flower for its corolla. phytology, botany-the branch of biology that studies plants. flower petal, petal-part of the perianth that is usually brightly colored.
Definition of COROLLA. : the part of a flower that consists of the separate or fused petals and constitutes the inner whorl of the perianth. — co·rol·late \kə-ˈrae-ˈrä; lət-ˈkȯr-ə, ˌlāt-\ ˈkaer. ˈkär adjective see corolla defined. FOR. kids advertisement 
In the process of plant evolution the corolla developed from modified stamens that had lost their anthers or (more rarely) from top leaves. The endless variety of corollas in shape, detail of structure, color, and the like is a valuable aid in the taxonomy of plants. 1  Facebook. in flowers, the inner circle of small leaves (petals) of a double perianth. Petals forming the corolla may be free, separate (polypetalous corollas) or united (gamopetalous corollas, which have developed in the course of evolution from the polypetalous ones).
More About Corolla. 1  There are four whorls of a flower namely calyx, corolla, androecium, gynoecium. 2  Calyx and corolla are the non-reproductive whorls whereas; androecium and gynoecium are the reproductive whorls. 3  Corolla is the second whorl of the flower after calyx, the outermost whorl. 1 There are four whorls of a flower namely calyx, corolla, androecium, gynoecium. 2  Calyx and corolla are the non-reproductive whorls whereas; androecium and gynoecium are the reproductive whorls. 3  Corolla is the second whorl of the flower after calyx, the outermost whorl.
Definition of COROLLA TUBE. : tube 1b(2). ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. 
Corolla. in flowers, the inner circle of small leaves (petals) of a double perianth. Petals forming the corolla may be free, separate (polypetalous corollas) or united (gamopetalous corollas, which have developed in the course of evolution from the polypetalous ones). The corolla is the most noticeable part of the flower, and in speaking of flowers one usually has in mind the c
From our Multilingual Translation Dictionary. 1  венче Bulgarian. 2  koruna Czech. 3  Korolla, Blumenkrone, Krone German. 4  στεφάνη Greek. 5  corolla Spanish. 6  terioe Teriö. 7  finnish Corolle. 8  french Corolla. 9  italian 花冠. 10  japanese दली. 11  marathi, bloemkroon Kroon. 12  dutch ве́нчик. 13  russian віно́чок. 14  ukrainian 花冠.  chinese Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: corolla (Noun). An outermost-but-one whorl of a flower, composed of petals, when it is not the same in appearance as the outermost whorl (the calyx); it usually comprises the petal, which may be fused. Origin: From corolla, diminutive of corona.
1 Calyx and corolla are the non-reproductive whorls whereas; androecium and gynoecium are the reproductive whorls. 2  Corolla is the second whorl of the flower after calyx, the outermost whorl. 1 There are four whorls of a flower namely calyx, corolla, androecium, gynoecium. 2  Calyx and corolla are the non-reproductive whorls whereas; androecium and gynoecium are the reproductive whorls. 3  Corolla is the second whorl of the flower after calyx, the outermost whorl.