[ 2 syll. ro-hin, roh-in ] The baby boy name Rohin is pronounced as R OW HHiy-N †. Rohin is largely used in the Indian language and its origin is Sanskrit. The name means on the upward path. Rohin is rare as a baby boy name. It is not listed in the top 1000. 
The first thing you should know if you are considering Rohin for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Rohin is a boy name. The name Rohin is of Sanskrit origin, and is used mostly in Hindi speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. If you consider naming your baby Rohin we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
ರೋಹಿನ; രോഹിന; રોહિન; రోహిన; রোহিন; ரோஹிந; ਰੋਹਿਨ. Name Rohin generally means Rising or Lord Vishnu, is of Indian origin, Name Rohin is a Feminine (or Girl) name. Person with name Rohin are mainly Hindu by religion. Name Rohin belongs to rashi Tula (Libra) with dominant planet Venus (Shukra) and Nakshatra (stars) Swati. Similar sounding names: Rehaan, Rhian, Rohini, Rihana, Raihaana, Rahini, Ruhan, Rhianu, Rehan, Ruhin, Reuhen, Rohan, Rohana, Raihaan, Rhona, Ruhani.
Meaning of Indian name: Rohini. Meaning of the name Rohini is 'Moon'. Rohini is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Rohini is '1'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Rohini'. 
Meaning of Indian name: Rohin. Meaning of the name Rohin is 'Rising'. Rohin is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Rohin is '1'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Rohin'.
In American the meaning of the name Rohan is: Ascending. Gaelic Meaning: The name Rohan is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Rohan is: Red-haired; red. Irish Meaning: The name Rohan is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Rohan is: Red-haired; red. 
Pronunciation: (RO heen). Form of: Itself (Rohin). The meaning of the name “Rohin” is: “Rising; born under the Sandalwood tree”. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }. If you consider naming your baby Rohin we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Popularity of the Name Rohin. Below you will find the popularity of the baby name Rohin displayed annually, from 1880 to the present day in our name popularity chart. Hover over or click on the dots that represent a year to see how many babies were given the name for that year, for both genders, if available. If you consider naming your baby Rohin we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.