polyhedron. n, pl-drons or-dra (-drə). 1. (Mathematics) a solid figure consisting of four or more plane faces (all polygons), pairs of which meet along an edge, three or more edges meeting at a vertex. In a regular polyhedron all the faces are identical regular polygons making equal angles with each other
Definition of POLYHEDRON. : a solid formed by plane faces. — poly·he·dral \-drəl\ adjective. See polyhedron defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
polyhedron-a solid figure bounded by plane polygons or faces. solid-a three-dimensional shape. convex polyhedron-a polyhedron any plane section of which is a convex polygon. concave polyhedron-a polyhedron some of whose plane sections are concave polygons. 1. (Mathematics) a solid figure consisting of four or more plane faces (all polygons), pairs of which meet along an edge, three or more edges meeting at a vertex.
Polyhedron. more ... A solid with flat faces (from Greek poly-meaning many and-edron meaning face). Example: pyramids and prisms Each flat surface (or face) is a polygon. See: Polygon.
In elementary geometry, a polyhedron (plural polyhedra or polyhedrons) is a solid in three dimensions with flat polygonal faces, straight edges and sharp corners or vertices. The word polyhedron comes from the Classical Greek πολύεδρον, as poly- (stem of πολύς, many) + -hedron (form of ἕδρα, base or seat). Polyhedra with congruent regular faces of six or more sides are all non-convex, because the vertex of three regular hexagons defines a plane. The total number of convex polyhedra with equal regular faces is thus ten, comprising the five Platonic solids and the five non-uniform deltahedra.
A polyhedron is said to be convex if its surface (comprising its faces, edges and vertices) does not intersect itself and the line segment joining any two points of the polyhedron is contained in the interior or surface. A polyhedron is a 3-dimensional example of the more general polytope in any number of dimensions. Polyhedra with congruent regular faces of six or more sides are all non-convex, because the vertex of three regular hexagons defines a plane. The total number of convex polyhedra with equal regular faces is thus ten, comprising the five Platonic solids and the five non-uniform deltahedra.
The word polyhedron has slightly different meanings in geometry and algebraic geometry. In geometry, a polyhedron is simply a three-dimensional solid which consists of a collection of polygons, usually joined at their edges. The word derives from the Greek poly (many) plus the Indo-European hedron (seat). The term polyhedron is used somewhat differently in algebraic topology, where it is defined as a space that can be built from such building blocks as line segments, triangles, tetrahedra, and their higher dimensional analogs by gluing them together along their faces (Munkres 1993, p. 2).
A polyhedron (plural polyhedra or polyhedrons) is often defined as a geometric object with flat faces and straight edges (the word polyhedron comes from the Classical Greek πολύεδρον, from poly- , stem of πολύς, many, + -edron, form of εδρον, base, seat, or face). A polyhedron is any three-dimensional figure with flat surfaces that are polygons. Specifically, any geometric shape existing in three-dimensions and having flat faces, each existing in two-dimensions, which intersect at straight, linear edges.
polyhedron. n, pl-drons or-dra (-drə). 1. (Mathematics) a solid figure consisting of four or more plane faces (all polygons), pairs of which meet along an edge, three or more edges meeting at a vertex. In a regular polyhedron all the faces are identical regular polygons making equal angles with each other. Noun. 1. polyhedron-a solid figure bounded by plane polygons or faces. solid-a three-dimensional shape. convex polyhedron-a polyhedron any plane section of which is a convex polygon. concave polyhedron-a polyhedron some of whose plane sections are concave polygons.