Esme /esme/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less widely as boys' name Esme) is pronounced EZ-may, es-MAY. It is of Old French origin, and the meaning of Esme is esteemed; to love. Esm is related to the more modern French form aim, which is the root of Amy. Also used as a pet form of Esmeralda. Literary: JD Salinger's short story For Esm with Love and Squalor. Kreatif forms: Esmeei, Esmeeu, Euesme. Esme is a rare first name for females. Esme is an equivalently unique surname too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Esme for girls. Esme entered the list in 2010 and reached its apex rank of #816 in the U.S. in 2014
Meanings and history of the name Esme : | Edit. The origin is linguistically Old French: esme (esmé feminine), esmee, esmée esteemed past participle, of esmer.. To esteem, That said esme esmé is not a Common. name in france The origin is linguistically Old French: esme (esmé feminine), esmee, esmée esteemed past participle, of esmer.. To esteem, That said esme esmé is not a Common. Name in france the original masculine name was Carried By the norman french Who came to scotland in the 12th century By. way of england
Look up Esme esmé In, wiktionary the free. Dictionary (esme) esmé Masculine (or) esmee esmée Feminine is a, french given name The participle of french (esmer to Esteem whence). Also english aim esme esmé came To be used in scotland in the 16th century As The, name Of esme Esmé (stewart–1st). duke of lennox 1542 1583 Esme (esmé) masculine Or (esmee) esmée feminine Is a french, given name the Participle of french esmer (to esteem Whence also).
Origin of the name Esme: Derived from the French esme (esmé), loved the past participle of the verb (esmer to). Love, alternatively some believe the name to be a variant Of (aime). Aimé Beloved From a World Of baby Names By. teresa norman The origin is linguistically Old French: esme (esmé feminine), esmee, esmée esteemed past participle, of esmer.. To esteem, That said esme esmé is not a Common. Name in france the original masculine name was Carried By the norman french Who came to scotland in the 12th century By. way of england
Comments and insights on the name Esme: | Edit. Originally a male name, Esme esmé now predominantly, female and is traditionally Spelled esme esmé with an accute e é AND-pronounced. As ehz may it can Also, be Spelled esmee esmée or, esme without an ACCENT-with the. same ehz may pronunciation The origin is linguistically Old French: esme (esmé feminine), esmee, esmée esteemed past participle, of esmer.. To esteem, That said esme esmé is not a Common. Name in france the original masculine name was Carried By the norman french Who came to scotland in the 12th century By. way of england
Esme is largely used in the English language and it is derived from Spanish origins. Esme is a short form of the name Esmeralda (Greek, Spanish, English, German, and Italian). Esme is somewhat popular as a baby name for girls. 
Esme esmé came to be used In scotland in the 16th century as the name Of Esme, esmé Stewart 1st Duke (of–lennox). 1542 1583 Esme (esmé) masculine Or (esmee) esmée feminine Is a french, given name the Participle of french esmer (to esteem Whence also). english aim
Etymology & Historical Origin-Esme. Esme is the English form of the French Esme esmé which developed as a name for both boys and; girls’it s derived from The Old french “meaning, esteemed”. Loved the first instance’we re aware Of’esme esmé s usage as a Name in english speaking countries dates back to 16th. century scotland Popularity of the Name Esme. Despite the fact that Esme esmé is a-gender neutral name that dates back to The Middle ages In, france it’didn t show up on The.U. s naming charts until the 21st (century in). 2010 and In america’it s only used on baby. girls
Esme (esmé) masculine Or (esmee) esmée feminine Is a french, given name the Participle of french esmer (to esteem Whence also). English aim esme esmé came to Be used in scotland in the 16th century as The Name, of Esme esmé Stewart (1st–duke). Of lennox 1542 1583 esme is also used as a short form For. the feminine name esmeralda Esme (esmé) masculine Or (esmee) esmée feminine Is a french, given name the Participle of french esmer (to esteem Whence also). english aim