Horses are members of Equus ferus caballus that generally mature to be 14.2 hands (58 inches (150 cm)) or taller, but many breed registries do accept animals under this height and classify them as horses, as horse characteristics include factors other than height. In most cases, bloodlines of horse breeds are recorded with a breed registry. However, in horses, the concept is somewhat flexible, as open stud books are created for developing horse breeds that are not yet fully true-breeding.
List of horse breeds 1 List of horse breeds Light or saddle horse breedsHeavy or draft horse breeds This page is a list of horse and pony breeds, and also includes termsused to describe types of horse that are not breeds but are commonlymistaken for breeds. Other recording entities or specialtyorganizations may recognize horses from multiple breeds, thus, for thepurposes of this article, such animals are classified as a type ratherthan a breed.The breeds and types listed here are those that already have aWikipedia article.
The breeds and types listed here are those that already have a Wikipedia article. For a more extensive list, see the List of all horse breeds in DAD-IS. For additional information, see horse breed, horse breeding and the individual articles listed below. Additional articles may be listed under Category:Horse breeds and Category:Types of horse. In most cases, bloodlines of horse breeds are recorded with a breed registry. However, in horses, the concept is somewhat flexible, as open stud books are created for developing horse breeds that are not yet fully true-breeding.
Types of horse See also Category:Types of horse A type of horse is not a breed but is simply a term used to describe a group ofbreeds that are similar in appearance (phenotype) or use. A type usually has no breed registry, and oftenencompasses several breeds. Other recording entities or specialtyorganizations may recognize horses from multiple breeds, thus, for thepurposes of this article, such animals are classified as a type ratherthan a breed.The breeds and types listed here are those that already have aWikipedia article.
A mustang is a federal horse. Types of horse. Horse is not a breed but is simply a term used to describe a group of breeds that are similar in appearance (phenotype) or use. A type usually has no breed registry, and often encompasses several breeds. 
See also Category:Types of horse. A type of horse is not a breed but is used here to categorize groups of horses or horse breeds that are similar in appearance (phenotype) or use. A type usually has no breed registry, and often encompasses several breeds. In most cases, bloodlines of horse breeds are recorded with a breed registry. However, in horses, the concept is somewhat flexible, as open stud books are created for developing horse breeds that are not yet fully true-breeding.
While there are many different kinds, or breeds, of horses, they can be divided into three main groups: heavy horses, light horses, and ponies. Large Muscular horses are call heavy horses. they are usually the biggest and the tallest of horses. Ponies are often thought to be baby horses, but they are actually breeds of horses that are much shorter-even when fully grown. There are about 267 breeds of horses, and several types of horses, such as cobs, polo ponies, ect. They are similar to a breed, but do not nessessarily have to be a certain breed, if that makes any sense. Like, a polo pony does not have to be a welsh pony
List of horse breeds 7 • Ob pony also called Priob pony • Sumba and Sumbawa Pony• Peneia Pony • Tibetan Pony Color breeds. There are some registries that accept horses (and sometimes ponies and mules) of almost any breed or type forregistration. Other recording entities or specialtyorganizations may recognize horses from multiple breeds, thus, for thepurposes of this article, such animals are classified as a type ratherthan a breed.The breeds and types listed here are those that already have aWikipedia article.
White is a color of a horse, not a breed. Certain breeds of horses can be 'white', but white is called 'grey' because white horses have gray skin if you look close. Albinos ar … e also white but they are very rare and have 'pink' skin and blue eyes. Ponies are often thought to be baby horses, but they are actually breeds of horses that are much shorter-even when fully grown. There are about 267 breeds of horses, and several types of horses, such as cobs, polo ponies, ect. They are similar to a breed, but do not nessessarily have to be a certain breed, if that makes any sense. Like, a polo pony does not have to be a welsh pony