Findings: Double-contrast fluoroscopy obtained of the esophagus demonstrates a moderately sized Schatzki ring in the distal esophagus in association with a moderately sized hiatal hernia is demonstrated. No obvious reflux was occurred however stress maneuvers were not applied. 
Many years ago, Schatzki described a smooth, benign, circumferential, and narrow ring of tissue in the lower end of the esophagus (the food pipe that connects the mouth to the stomach). These rings are located just above the junction of the esophagus with the stomach. These rings are common. Endoscopy is the best way of diagnosing a Schatzki ring. During the endoscopy, a flexible viewing tube is inserted through the mouth into the esophagus. It allows a direct view of the inner lining of the esophagus and the stomach. The test helps to exclude early cancer, esophagitis, and Barrett's
Schatzki ring: Ring-like constriction of the lower part of the esophagus which can cause swallowing problems. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Schatzki ring is available below. 
Rule out cancer: A Schatzki ring is a narrowing of the lower esophagus that is caused by a ring of mucosal tissue that normally lines the esophagus. 
242,161 Helpful Votes. 190 Followers. A. Schatzki’s rings are smooth, benign, circumferential, and narrowed rings of tissue in the lower end of the esophagus (the food pipe that connects the mouth to the stomach). These rings are located just above the junction of the esophagus with the stomach
An esophageal ring, or Schatzki ring, is a ring of tissue near the end of the food pipe (esophagus) just above the opening to the stomach. The area with the ring is narrower than the rest of the food pipe. A stricture is a narrowing of the esophagus (food pipe). Some people may have a Schatzki’s ring since birth. Sometimes, it is due to G astro E sophageal R eflux D isease (GERD). Stricturing, or narrowing, can be caused from acid in the stomach entering up into the esophagus causing the esophagus tissue to scar
A Schatzki ring is a specific type of esophageal ring, and Schatzki rings are further subdivided into those above the esophagus / stomach junction (A rings), and those found at the squamocolumnar junction in the lower esophagus (B rings). A Schatzki ring is usually diagnosed by esophagogastroduodenoscopy or barium swallow. Endoscopy usually shows a ring within the lumen of the esophagus which can be of variable size (see picture). The ring is usually located a few centimetres above the gastro-esophageal junction, where the esophagus joins the stomach
A Schatzki ring or Schatzki–Gary ring is a narrowing of the lower esophagus that can cause difficulty swallowing (dysphagia). The narrowing is caused by a ring of mucosal tissue (which lines the esophagus) or muscular tissue. A Schatzki ring is usually diagnosed by esophagogastroduodenoscopy or barium swallow. Endoscopy usually shows a ring within the lumen of the esophagus which can be of variable size (see picture). The ring is usually located a few centimetres above the gastro-esophageal junction, where the esophagus joins the stomach