2 (Of food) containing chunks or thick pieces of something: a chunky soup. More example sentences. 1  The salsa is different every single time, from scrambled tomato soup to super-spicy chunky tomato marmalade. 2  I love chunky seafood soup, which was also on offer for €5.50, but in the end, I chose Nimmo's warm salad with port dressing for €9.80. 1.1 (Of a person) short and sturdy: a squat, chunky man whose face was stitched by tiny red veins. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  The guardsman-a shorter, chunky fellow-rose with ill grace and stumped over to the water pump. 2  She saw a short, chunky girl standing at the edge of Andy's yard.
I feel that stew is chunky and soup is runny or more small ingredients. Although to a Vegan, he may use chunks of squash as the main ingredient to bring out the flavor. So, this would be called a Vegan Squash Stew. If he cuts the squash up into smaller pieces, it is a Squash Soup. This is my view point. Yet it looks more like a stew to me. And then it shows this as a stew: Yet that looks like a soup to me. So my main question is: What are the technical differences that determine whether it is a soup or a stew.
1 A chowder is a thick, chunky soup. 2  Traditionally, a chowder is made with seafood or fish, but chowders made with poultry, vegetables, and cheese have become popular. 3  Stock or broth is a strained, thin, clear liquid in which meat, poultry, or fish has been simmered with vegetables and herbs. A soup can be labeled one of the following: 1  A bisque is a rich, thick, smooth soup that's often made with shellfish, such as lobster or shrimp. 2  A chowder is a thick, chunky soup. 3  Traditionally, a chowder is made with seafood or fish, but chowders made with poultry, vegetables, and cheese have become popular
I've always been taught that the differences between soups and stews is the size of chunks of food that you cook in the broth or whatever liquid you want to use as a base. Sure anyone can call a soup a stew, or call a stew a soup, and it wouldn't make much of a difference. Yet it looks more like a stew to me. And then it shows this as a stew: Yet that looks like a soup to me. So my main question is: What are the technical differences that determine whether it is a soup or a stew.
1 I love chunky seafood soup, which was also on offer for €5.50, but in the end, I chose Nimmo's warm salad with port dressing for €9.80. 2  The main course has delights such as chicken puttanesca-chicken dices cooked with bacon, olive, tomato, and bell pepper in a chunky tomato sauce, served with steamed rice. 1.1 (Of a person) short and sturdy: a squat, chunky man whose face was stitched by tiny red veins. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  The guardsman-a shorter, chunky fellow-rose with ill grace and stumped over to the water pump. 2  She saw a short, chunky girl standing at the edge of Andy's yard.
1 The salsa is different every single time, from scrambled tomato soup to super-spicy chunky tomato marmalade. 2  I love chunky seafood soup, which was also on offer for €5.50, but in the end, I chose Nimmo's warm salad with port dressing for €9.80. 1.1 (Of a person) short and sturdy: a squat, chunky man whose face was stitched by tiny red veins. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  The guardsman-a shorter, chunky fellow-rose with ill grace and stumped over to the water pump. 2  She saw a short, chunky girl standing at the edge of Andy's yard.
Campbell Soup Company (NYSE:CPB) is a global food company headquartered in Camden, N.J., with annual sales of more than $8 billion. The Company makes a range of products from high-quality soups and simple meals to snacks and healthy beverages. The Campbell Employee Center opens at Campbell World Headquarters in its hometown of Camden, N.J. Campbell’s Condensed soup can label is redesigned for a more contemporary look and to provide more space to feature the images of the soups consumers love.
Just in time for football season (because apparently Campbell's is the official soup sponsor of the NFL), the company has released three new flavors of chunky soup: Hearty Cheeseburger, Philly-Style Cheesesteak and Spicy Chicken Quesadilla. There's a reason these flavors sound more like bar food than soup flavors -- they're inspired by foods that are not meant to be liquified. The company hopes the soups will appeal to football fans, and has even enlisted Green Bay Packers linebacker Clay Matthews to appear in ads.
1 A bisque is a rich, thick, smooth soup that's often made with shellfish, such as lobster or shrimp. 2  A chowder is a thick, chunky soup. 3  Traditionally, a chowder is made with seafood or fish, but chowders made with poultry, vegetables, and cheese have become popular. A soup can be labeled one of the following: 1  A bisque is a rich, thick, smooth soup that's often made with shellfish, such as lobster or shrimp. 2  A chowder is a thick, chunky soup.