Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The Equator passes through three continents, these are SOUTH AMERICA (Ecuador, Columbia and Brazil), AFRICA (Gabon, Republic of the Congo, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Uganda, Kenya and Somalia) and ASIA (Maldives and Indonesia). Hope that helps. Source(s):
Share. The equator is located at zero degrees latitude. The equator runs through Indonesia, Ecuador, northern Brazil, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Kenya, among other countries. It is 24,901.55 miles (40,075.16 kilometers) long
The equator runs through Indonesia, Ecuador, northern Brazil, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, and Kenya, among other countries. It is 24,901.55 miles (40,075.16 kilometers) long. On the equator, the sun is directly overhead at noon on the two equinoxes-near March and September 21. 
The equator runs through 7 African countries: Sao São tome Tomé, And, Principe príncipe gabon Republic, Of The congo democratic Republic, Of, The, congo Uganda. kenya and somalia 3 people. found this useful Answer   Yes, the Equator passes through the following countries: Gabon, Congo, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Uganda, Kenya, and Somalia. 1 person found this useful.
They are different things. The equator is 0 degree latitude. This imaginary line, which runs through parts of South America, Africa, and Asia, is officially the halfway point between the North Pole and the South Pole. The prime meridian is 0 degrees longitude. This imaginary line runs through the United Kingdom, France, Spain, western Africa, and Antarctica. 
Confidence votes 36.1K. Yes, the Equator passes through the following countries: Gabon, Congo, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Uganda, Kenya, and Somalia. The equator runs through 7 African countries: Sao São tome Tomé, And, Principe príncipe gabon Republic, Of The congo democratic Republic, Of, The, congo Uganda. kenya and somalia 3 people. Found. This useful: Edit. share to answered
The equator passes through 13 countries: Ecuador, Colombia, Brazil, Sao Tome & Principe, Gabon, Republic of the Congo, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Uganda, Kenya, Somalia, Maldives, Indonesia and Kiribati. For more information about these places, visit our Countries of the World page. 
In Geography. The equator runs through 7 African countries: Sao São tome Tomé, And, Principe príncipe gabon Republic, Of The congo democratic Republic, Of, The, congo Uganda. kenya and somalia 3 people. Found. This useful: Edit. share to answered
Question: What countries does the equator run through in Africa? Answer: In Africa, the equator runs along for almost 2500 miles, passing through 6 countries, and ironically the list does not include Equatorial Guinea. The six countries in Africa the equator does run through include: Gabon, Republic of Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo, Uganda, Kenya and Somalia. Some travelers have followed this imaginary line from one end of the continent to the other. 