As the face of Vision Express, you’re there to help customers through their journey with us – from a warm welcome, through to help with selecting the right products for their eyewear and eye care needs. The role of an Optical Assistant offers more responsibility and involvement than your normal run-of-the-mill retail job.
Read More... Optical assistants, also known as optometric assistants, are medical assistants who help optometrists in both clinical and administrative duties. They usually work in private practices, vision care clinics, or other facilities that offer eye car. Knowing the needs of the patient is important because optical assistants are there to help pick the right frame and teach patients how to adjust those frames to fit comfortably. In some cases, optical assistants are expected to repair both eyeglasses and contact lenses.
The average salary for an Optical Assistant is £13,657 per year. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this career. 
Success Vision Express, a thriving one-hour optical with locations in Kansas and Arkansas, is looking for an Arkansas licensed optician to be general manager of... Success Vision Express is looking for energetic and fast learning individuals with a passion for helping customers....
Success Vision Express, a thriving one-hour optical, is looking for energetic and fast learning individuals with a passion for helping customers and making... Easily apply. Success Vision Express is looking for energetic and fast learning individuals with a passion for helping customers....
Optical dispensing assistants earned a mean $16.66 per hour for working an average 37 hours per week, according to the American Optometric Association. They were the second most common type of optical assistants, employed in 82 percent of all practices, but earned higher wages than clinical assistants. Optical dispensing assistants ensure that lenses meet the optometrist’s specification and also recommend the best frames and lenses for patients. They earned their best pay in the Northeast at a mean $21.92 per hour. They received their lowest wages in the Midwest, averaging $14.81 hourly.
Job Description for an Optical Assistant. Optical assistants are medical assistants who may work in an optometrist's private practice, a vision care clinic or another type of facility that provides eye care. Optical Assistant: Job Description & Career Info. Learn about the education and preparation needed to become an optical assistant. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about training, job duties and certification to find out if this is the career for you.
Pros: be the first contact with the public, able to help customers, make people happy and satisfied. I enjoyed spending two weeks with the Vision Express team in Harborne. It gave me an insight into the day to day work of an optical assistant. I was the first contact with customers which was great. It enabled me to develop people skills. Pros: free prescription eye-wear and other discounts. The small Vision Express practice I work for has been an insightful and rewarding re-introduction into retail for me. The manager has been a respectful and patient guide, and the other team memebers are friendly and down to earth.
The average pay for an Optical Assistant is $11.77 per hour. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this field. Knowing the needs of the patient is important because optical assistants are there to help pick the right frame and teach patients how to adjust those frames to fit comfortably. In some cases, optical assistants are expected to repair both eyeglasses and contact lenses.
Data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics show that 15,580 optical assistants were employed in the U.S. as of May 2011. They earned an average of in the country earned an average $26,390 per year or $12.69 per hour. Optical dispensing assistants ensure that lenses meet the optometrist’s specification and also recommend the best frames and lenses for patients. They earned their best pay in the Northeast at a mean $21.92 per hour. They received their lowest wages in the Midwest, averaging $14.81 hourly.