Almost everyone knows that Thomas Jefferson wrote the Declaration of Independence. However, did you know that, like most people who write something, he wrote at least one rough draft? This is an example of what's left of the earliest known draft of the Declaration. 
(Answer #2). The Declaration of Independence was the document that freed the colonies from Britain. It consists of the preamble, which explains that the colonies will be separating from Britain, the Indictment, explaining why America wanted to be independent, and the Denunciation, basically just a wrap up. (Answer #1). First of all, you can read the Declaration of Independence for yourself to see exactly what it has to say. There is a link to the Declaration below this answer. If you examine the Declaration carefully, you will find that there are five sections in the document.
The Declaration of Independence, 1776. By issuing the Declaration of Independence, adopted by the Continental Congress on July 4, 1776, the 13 American colonies severed their political connections to Great Britain. The Declaration summarized the colonists’ motivations for seeking independence
The Declaration of Independence said that Britain and their king abused the rights of the American colonists. It listed the charges against the king including his abuse of pow … er and imposing taxes on them without their consent. 15 people found this useful. 
The United States Declaration of Independence inspired many other similar documents in other countries in the 18th and 19th centuries, spreading to the Low Countries, and then to the Caribbean, Spanish America, the Balkans, West Africa, and Central Europe in the decades up to 1848. In their  Declaration of Sentiments , patterned on the Declaration of Independence, the convention members demanded social and political equality for women. Their motto was that All men and women are created equal and the convention demanded suffrage
Although the wording of the Declaration was approved by Congress on July 4, 1776, the date of its signing has been disputed. Most historians have concluded that it was signed nearly a month after its adoption, on August 2, 1776, and not on July 4 as is commonly believed. 
The Declaration became official when Congress voted for it on July 4; signatures of the delegates were not needed to make it official. The handwritten copy of the Declaration of Independence that was signed by Congress is dated July 4, 1776. In their  Declaration of Sentiments , patterned on the Declaration of Independence, the convention members demanded social and political equality for women. Their motto was that All men and women are created equal and the convention demanded suffrage
When the government is bad which happens when it fails to protect the rights of the people, the people must stop the government and make another one. The Independence was declared on July 2, 1776 but was ratified on the July 4th at the Pennsylvania State House. From then on, Americans feast to celebrate their Independence every Fourth of July through fireworks, parades and songs. The words written by Thomas Jefferson are famous and Americans take hold to such words as this made them citizens of their own country. The highlights of the Declaration of Independence are: • All men are created equally by God.
On June 8, 1776, the Continental Congress voted to write a declaration of independence. It named a committee to do the writing. One of its members was Thomas Jefferson, a lawyer from Virginia. He had been a leader in Virginia, and Virginia had elected him to the Continental Congress. 