Survival rates show the percentage of people with a certain type and stage of cancer who survive it for a certain period of time after they are diagnosed. A five-year survival rate is the percentage of people who are alive at least five years after they are diagnosed. These are the people it includes: They cannot be used to predict what will happen to a particular person. No two people are exactly alike. Treatment and responses to treatment vary greatly. The overall five-year survival rate for all stages of liver cancer combined is about 15 percent, according to the American Cancer Society.
1 Signs and symptoms of adult primary liver cancer include a lump or pain on the right side. 2  Tests that examine the liver and the blood are used to detect (find) and diagnose adult primary liver cancer. 3  Certain factors affect prognosis (chance of recovery) and treatment options. 1 Having hepatitis or cirrhosis can affect the risk of adult primary liver cancer. 2  Signs and symptoms of adult primary liver cancer include a lump or pain on the right side. 3
Their overall 5-year survival is over 50%. For people with early-stage liver cancers who have a liver transplant, the 5-year survival rate is in the range of 60% to 70%. If you do not want to read about the survival statistics for liver cancer, skip to the next section. The 5-year survival rate refers to the percentage of patients who live at least 5 years after their cancer is diagnosed. Of course, many of these people live much longer than 5 years
By the time someone has symptoms and goes to their doctor, the cancer is very often in the advanced stages. Only about 10 out of 100 people (10%) are diagnosed in the early stages when surgery can help. Overall, in England around 30 out of 100 people (30%) will survive for 1 year or more after diagnosis. You may hear your doctor use the terms 1 year survival and 5 year survival. This doesn't mean you will only live 1 or 5 years. 1 or 5 year survival relates to the number of people in research studies who are still alive 1 or 5 years
The five-year survival rate for people with early stage cancer that can be removed with surgery and who do not have cirrhosis or other major health problems is over 50 percent. When cancer has spread throughout the liver or to distant sites, the five-year survival rate is 2 percent. Medical Reviewers: They cannot be used to predict what will happen to a particular person. No two people are exactly alike. Treatment and responses to treatment vary greatly. The overall five-year survival rate for all stages of liver cancer combined is about 15 percent, according to the American Cancer Society.
For all stages combined, the relative 5-year survival rate from liver cancer is about 15%. Part of the reason for this low survival rate is that most patients with liver cancer also have other liver problems such as cirrhosis, which itself can be fatal. If you do not want to read about the survival statistics for liver cancer, skip to the next section. The 5-year survival rate refers to the percentage of patients who live at least 5 years after their cancer is diagnosed. Of course, many of these people live much longer than 5 years
Best Answer: BSherman's answer is superb-and indeed some patients with stage 4 colon carcinoma do survive for 1 to 2 years-but what you describe sounds like it may be a shorter prognosis. I would suggest being prepared for something in the order of months rather than years. I hope I am wrong in this estimation. 
There is every indication that those who are well one year after a liver transplant have an excellent chance at long term survival. Heart disease and cancer are the most common diseases that can result in death after transplant besides recurrent disease. 