Reuse as many bags as you can before disposing of them. Use them as garbage bags, to clean up after pets, or keep a few around for grocery shopping. There are endless uses for plastic bags. Keep a designated spot and container in your house for plastic bag collection, such as a small trash bin in a pantry or closet.
1 Most stores have a container to take these bags back and recycle them for you. 2  Consider no longer accepting plastic bags. 3  The more that you continue to use the bags, the more stores assume you want them. 4  By bringing your own bags with you, and by refusing plastic bags, you send a message that they're no longer wanted.
Plastic bags and film packaging are generally #2 and #4 plastic, both of which are recyclable. Most plastic bags are recycled into composite lumber, but can actually become a wide variety of products. Drop-off locations and curbside pick-up programs for these plastics are available all over the country.
How to recycle/dispose of plastics. We accept plastic bottles, containers, tubs, and lids in our curbside recycling program, and as a recyclable at our Shady Grove Processing Facility and Transfer Station. Download our plastics postcard (PDF, 1.1 MB) for handy reference.
How to recycle/dispose of plastic bags. We accept plastic bags in your regular trash, and as trash at our Shady Grove Processing Facility and Transfer Station.
Recycle plastic bags and other types of plastic film at local grocery and retail stores throughout the County. Look for collection bins near store entrances. Use this drop-off locator from plasticfilmrecycling.org to find bag and film recycling drop-offs near you.
If you want to dispose of your plastic bags then use these steps to make sure they don’t land in the trashcan or in the wild. Start by identifying what types of plastic bags can be recycled. Though many bags will come with the plastic resin number printed somewhere on them, some are not.
1 Non-renewable resources: Plastic bags are made from petroleum, which is a non-renewable resource. 2  We need to kick the petroleum habit, and recycling plastic bags is one way to do that. 3  Americans use the equivalent of 12 billion barrels of oil every year in the form of plastic bags.
Bring your unwanted bags to a place that has a plastic bag recycling receptacle and dispose of them there. Most supermarkets have them. If you must throw away a bag, this is the best way to do it. Check the Resources section to find other plastic bag recycling locations in your area.