Juneteenth, celebrated on June 19, is the name given to emancipation day by African-Americans in Texas. On that day in 1865 Union Major-General Gordon Granger read General Orders, No.3 to the people of Galveston. It stated. In many parts of Texas, ex-slaves purchased land, or emancipation grounds, for the Juneteenth gathering. Examples include: Emancipation Park in Houston, purchased in 1872; what is now Booker T. Washington Park in Mexia; and Emancipation park in East Austin.
Background. The Emancipation Proclamation is the document that Lincoln felt would cement his name in history. It stated that all enslaved people within the states in rebellion were free. 
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. Published on Sep 30, 2012. Listen to and read the full text of the Emancipation Proclamation, an Executive Order issued by U.S. President Abraham Lincoln on January 1, 1863 to free U.S. slaves during the American Civil War. Category. License.
Issued after the Union victory at Antietam, the Emancipation Proclamation had both moral and strategic implications for the ongoing Civil War. 1  Contents. 2  Lincoln’s Position on Slavery. 3  Contrabands and The Confiscation Acts. 4  The Move Towards Emancipation. 5  Lincoln Issues the Emancipation Proclamation. 
On January 1, 1863, Lincoln’s Emancipation Proclamation freed slaves in all Southern states still in rebellion against the Union, with the exception of Tennessee, southern Louisiana, and parts of Virginia. This manuscript draft was written on the morning of January 1 and rushed to the State Department to be engrossed. 
Lincoln In Search Of A Union Victory. Lincoln needed a decisive Union victory to lend credence to the proclamation and got one at the Battle of Antietam on September 17, which had ended Confederate general Robert E. Lee’s first Northern invasion. Emancipation Proclamation summary: The Emancipation Proclamation was issued by President Abraham Lincoln on January 1, 1863, as the country entered the third year of the Civil War.
Read the transcript of the Emancipation Proclamation. See emancipation proclamation text. Emancipation Proclamation summary: The Emancipation Proclamation was issued by President Abraham Lincoln on January 1, 1863, as the country entered the third year of the Civil War.
&copy Abraham Lincoln Online. Washington, D.C. January 1, 1863 President Lincoln read the first draft of this document to his Cabinet members on July 22, 1862. After some changes, he issued the preliminary version on September 22, which specified that the final document would take effect January 1, 1863. Emancipation Proclamation. President Lincoln read the first draft of this document to his Cabinet members on July 22, 1862. After some changes, he issued the preliminary version on September 22, which specified that the final document would take effect January 1, 1863.