Feline immunodeficiency virus, or FIV, is a widespread viral infection that attacks the immune system of cats. It is caused by the same family of viruses that triggers AIDS in humans and has much the same devastating impact on infected cats. It is often referred to as feline AIDS..
Feline AIDS and Transmission. The feline immunodeficiency virus causes the immunodeficiency syndrome and can only be transmitted to other felines. In cats, the feline immunodeficiency virus may be contracted through contact with infested saliva, blood or other body discharges.
Each year, thousands of cats are diagnosed with Feline AIDS, also known as the Feline Immunodeficiency Virus or FIV. This potentially life-threatening disease attacks and impairs the immune system, leaving infected animals vulnerable to a variety of infections.
According to North American veterinary statistics, 1 in 12 cats can test positive for feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV). Cat AIDS is a leading cause of disease in cats worldwide. There is no easy treatment or cure for feline AIDS, and in the early stages of the disease, feline AIDS symptoms may be difficult to detect. Feline AIDS usually spreads through contact with the saliva of an infected cat. In rare cases, a mother cat may transmit the disease to her unborn kittens.
Cats infected with FIV may appear healthy for up to six years. In the early stages, symptoms of FIV are not always obvious, and often don't appear at all. Early signs and symptoms of feline AIDS can include: 1  Lethargy. 2  Fever. 3  Diarrhea. 4  Swollen lymph nodes.
Also known as FIV or cat AIDS, feline immunodeficiency virus is an infectious disease caused by a retrovirus belonging to the lentivirus family. It is in the same family as the feline leukemia virus (FeLV), and is similar to the HIV virus in humans. FIV infects both domesticated cats, lions, tigers, pumas and cheetahs.
The feline AIDS is not a curable disease, but the cat should be monitored and get support to have a quality life and to prevent secondary diseases. The treatment may consist of a few immune system support tablets, as the immune system must be strengthened, so it can fight different diseases.