A government legislation that cut down the percent of the Emergency Quota Act from 3% to 2%, and it changed the census used from the 1910 one to that of the 1890 one. 
The Committee on Public Information (CPI), also known as the Creel Committee, organized publicity on behalf of U.S. objectives during World War I. In 1917, U.S. President Woodrow Wilson tapped muckraking journalist George Creel [1] to head the CPI. At the time, a strong current of public opinion in the United States opposed Wilson's plan to enter the war in Europe, and in fact Wilson had run for re-election in 1916 on the slogan, He kept us out of war..
Records of Committee on Public Information commissioners at Paris, Rome, Madrid, The Hague, London, Santiago, Buenos Aires, and Lima, 1918-19. Records of Committee on Public Information representatives in Russia, primarily in Moscow and Vladivostok, 1918-19. Related Records: Record copies of publications of the Committee on Public Information in RG 287, Publications of the U.S. Government. Subject Access Terms: World War I agency.
The Committee on Public Information (CPI) was a government agency established in the United States during World War I with the aim of supporting the war effort. It was created by executive order shortly after the United States entered the war in 1917 and was shuttered in 1919 with the cessation of hostilities. One aspect of the committee's work was censorship of potentially damaging material, and the committee maintained a stranglehold on the kind of material from the war that could be released to the public. The other arm of the Committee on Public Information's work involved generating propaganda material
Establishment. At its 34th session, the General Assembly decided to maintain the Committee to Review United Nations Public Information Policies and Activities, established under General Assembly resolution 33/115 C of 18 December 1978, which would be known as the Committee on Information. 
The 37th Session of the Committee on Information took place in New York from 27 April through 8 May 2015. Report of the Committee on Information. The Committee on Information is a subsidiary body of the General Assembly, established by the General Assembly to deal with questions relating to public information.
The United States Committee on Public Information, also known as the Creel Committee, was an agency headed by progressive journalist George Creel during World War I. The committee directed the government’s propaganda effort, encouraging public support for the war through pro-war films and publications and the recruitment of volunteer patriotic speakers.
Committee on Public Information, set up by executive order of President Woodrow Wilson, 14 April 1917. Formally it consisted of the secretaries of state, war, and the navy, wi … th the journalist George Creel as civilian chairman. The committee was responsible for uniting American support behind the World War I effort. The purpose of the Committee on Public Information was to try to  sway public opinion in the US in favor of supporting America  getting involved in the First World War. The … committee was  established in 1917.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Committee on Public Information also known as CPI. Was an independent agency of the government of the United States created to influence U.S. public opinion regarding American participation in World War I. Well President Woodrow Wilson was head of the committee and the Committee to public information made compains, movies, and pampflits to get people in the homefront to support … the war. + 5 others found this useful.