There have been improvements made to newer ones, but the older ones are not a good idea for long term fuel storage. Nato Jerry Gas Can 20L/5.28G Military Spec. containers are often very high quality and their price reflects it. This Nato Jerry Gas Can 20L/5.28G Military Spec. is available on Amazon for $90.
A: PRI-G will eliminate tank sludge when consistently used. PRI-G's powerful dispersants are the same chemistries used to dissolve heavy, asphaltene laden sludge in the most challenging heavy fuel oils. The length of time it takes for PRI-G to remove this sludge is dependent upon the degree of sludge contamination.
In this part 1 video, I will show you the better and cheaper method to storing your white rice for long term storage and survival plus you will learn how to use mylar bags. This method can preserve your rice up to 25 years! I prefer to use it every 5 - 10 years to keep it extra safe.
PRI-G is a super concentrated fuel treatment stabilizer that will preserve the quality of your gasoline for one year, and can be reapplied year after year to reduce the risk of bad fuel during a disaster or other emergency. PRI-G, in the 32 ounce bottle can treat 512 gallons of fuel.
I have never heard of Pri-G, sure going to keep my eyes open for it. Thank you for all your hard work. Reply. 48. Branden says. i would use it to store fuel long term for leaving town in the event of an emergancy. Reply. 49. Crystal says. I’ve got a small collection going of empty fuel cans and I’d fill those up.
You are right in that having 50 gallons stored would be much better for the long term. I wouldn’t store fuel in anything I wasn’t sure was safe for it like you said. I have used some of those old barrels you are talking about that were filled with food products as my rain catchment system.
SKU: PRI-G-32. Gasoline is a great fuel for emergency preparedness, but it degrades quickly without a fuel stabilizer, sometimes in as little as three months. Use one unit of PRI-G per year, per gallon to stabilize your fuel storage or restore fuel that has been degraded.
I have used PRI-G the 16 oz version for a vehicle I had in storage. The vehicle had winter gas in it. I live in BC Canada so that means the gas or fuel very had unstable components in it; 18 months later when I was ready start the vehicle the gas not degraded and the vehicle worked started with no problem.
PRI-G 32 oz Long Term Gas Fuel Storage Stabilizer. If you are storing gasoline for emergency fuel for a car, truck, or generator, you need PRI-G.
ANNUALLY: Each year add more PRI-G or PRI-D to your fuel to keep it fresh. Fuel will last indefinitely as long as you do this. The way they made the top of the bottles are ingenious! It measures out exactly how much you need for 16 gallons of fuel so you can pour it right in.