This particular Chinook salmon was found by biologist Doug Killam in Battle Creek, near Anderson and is apparently the largest salmon in the world, weighing 85 pounds. I should say was the largest salmon in the world since Killam only found the carcass. Take a look: Unless you have what they used on the movie hulk there is no possible way. neo Posted on July 8, 2011. The current world record salmon is 97 pounds 4 ounces, caught in 1985 by Les Anderson in the Kenai River, Alaska.
That same day, a 72-pound salmon was also caught and released, reported the Seattle Times. According to the Florida-based International Game Fish Association, the Rivers Inlet Chinook is “the largest caught by rod and reel in a quarter century and the third largest ever,” reported the Sun.
The Chinook salmon, Oncorhynchus tshawytscha, is Alaska's state fish. It is also the largest of the Pacific salmon. The largest Chinook salmon ever documented, a 126 lb fish, was caught in a fish trap near Petersburg, Alaska in 1949. A 97 lb Chinook was caught on sport tackle near Admiralty Island in south east Alaska. Other common names for this fish are king or red
My daughter even knows that one and you call yourself a biologist. Unless you have what they used on the movie hulk there is no possible way. neo Posted on July 8, 2011. The current world record salmon is 97 pounds 4 ounces, caught in 1985 by Les Anderson in the Kenai River, Alaska. dj Posted on July 14, 2011. Largest salmon was 126 pounds caught in a net at Rivers Inlet BC
The California sport-fishing record for a Chinook salmon is 88 pounds. In Alaska, where they're called king salmon, they get even bigger — the record sport catch is 97 pounds, while the largest commercial catch was a truly phenomenal 126 pounds. Oh yeah, that's a big one. Wildlife officials in northern California last week came across one of the biggest Chinook salmon ever found in the state — a monster more than 4 feet long and weighing 85 pounds.
A 126-pound Chinook salmon taken in a fish trap near Petersburg, Alaska in 1949 is the largest on record. The largest sport-caught Chinook salmon was a 97-pound fish taken in the Kenai River in 1986. Chinook Salmon The Chinook salmon (Oncorhynchus tshawytscha) is Alaska's state fish and is one of the most important sport and commercial fish native to the Pacific coast of North America. It is the largest of all Pacific salmon, with weights of individual fish commonly exceeding 30 pounds.
The largest salmon ever caught in the Columbia River were summer Chinook destined for tributaries in the interior and upper Columbia River Basin, primarily in Washington and British Columbia. 
The largest fish I caught was 63 pounds. My wife caught one 85-pounder and I could never beat her.. Anderson's catch is more than four pounds heavier than the current world record for king salmon caught by hook and line. A 93-pound king was caught in June 1977 in southeast Alaska by Howard Rider of Juneau, fish and game officials said. 