The American diet consists of meat, eggs, dairy and other highly acidic foods. The amount of intake of alkaline foods such as fresh vegetables, if minimum. Many Americans are on medications and drugs; that tends to increase the level of acid in the blood. In case of an acidic pH, due to heavy intake of acidic foods may suffer from emotional stress, toxic overload, immune reactions and certain processes that deprive the cells of oxygen and other essential nutrients. The body counters this acidic pH by using alkaline minerals.
This is a list of most of the foods that are considered acidic and should be consumed in moderate amounts. Some of these foods are healthy to eat and should not be totally avoided. In case of an acidic pH, due to heavy intake of acidic foods may suffer from emotional stress, toxic overload, immune reactions and certain processes that deprive the cells of oxygen and other essential nutrients. The body counters this acidic pH by using alkaline minerals.
As a result, different charts can report slightly different pH levels of the same foods. Download this printable Alkaline-Acid Food Chart to post on your fridge. Jump To Featured Products. How the body reacts to certain foods is what determines what foods are alkaline-forming and what foods are acid-forming. For example lemons are acidic in nature, but have an alkalizing effect on the body once they are digested. Similarly, milk is alkaline outside the body, but acidic upon digestion. 
Alice! Dear Reader, Contrary to popular belief, eating acidic foods will not cause one's stomach, blood, or entire body to become more acidic. In fact, during the process of digestion, the stomach secretes hydrochloric acid (HCl), a super-duper acidic substance that causes its contents to become acidic. The pH of hydrochloric acid is between 0.1 and 1.0 — probably the most acidic substance known to people. Eating acidic foods can't cause the stomach to become more acidic. It's already more acidic than the foods you may be eating.
Acid foods are foods that contain enough acid to have a pH of 4.6 or lower. Acidic foods can be processed safely in a boiling water canner, usually without added acid (lemon juice, vinegar or citric acid). This is necessary to control botulinum bacteria. Foods can be acid because they are: 1  naturally acid foods. 2  foods that have acid, such as vinegar or lemon juice, added. 3  fermented foods, such as sauerkraut. 4  During the fermentation process bacteria produce an acid.
The acidity of foods, or other substances, are measured by their pH value -- their place on a 14-point pH scale. Acidic substances have a low pH -- the lower the pH, the more acidic -- while neutral and basic substances have higher pH levels of 7 or above. The body has a pH balance that determines the amount of acid and alkalinity present in your system. Corn, lentils, winter squash and olives are all vegetables that are high in acid. For example, corn has a pH of 5.2, while lentils and olives have pH levels of 6.3 and 6, respectively. They still have fiber and other nutrients, but they are not good choices if you are trying to lower the levels of acid in your body.
The chart below categorizes a food as either acidic or alkaline based on the effect consumption of the food has on urine pH. For example, if a food tends to increase the acidity of urine after it is ingested, it is classified as an acid forming food. The effect foods have on urine pH may be quite different than the pH of the foods themselves. For example, orange juice is a highly acidic food due to its high citrus acid content, but after being metabolized it will cause urine to become alkaline.
vinegar to make them acid foods. Acid foods have a pH of 4.6 or lower. They include fruits, pickles, sauerkraut, jams, jellies, marmalades, and fruit butters. Although tomatoes usually are considered an acid food, some are now known to have pH values slightly above 4.6. Foods can be acid because they are: 1  naturally acid foods. 2  foods that have acid, such as vinegar or lemon juice, added. 3  fermented foods, such as sauerkraut. 4  During the fermentation process bacteria produce an acid.
The normal pH of human blood is 7.35 - 7.45, that is slightly alkaline. The pH of 7.0 is termed as neutral, anything below 7.0 is considered to be acidic and pH above 7.0 is termed as alkaline. When the pH in the body increases or decreases than the normal pH, it leads to many symptoms and diseases. In case of an acidic pH, due to heavy intake of acidic foods may suffer from emotional stress, toxic overload, immune reactions and certain processes that deprive the cells of oxygen and other essential nutrients. The body counters this acidic pH by using alkaline minerals.