The cell nucleus contains the majority of the cell's genetic material in the form of multiple linear DNA molecules organized into structures called chromosomes. Each human cell contains roughly two meters of DNA. The nucleolus is a discrete densely stained structure found in the nucleus. It is not surrounded by a membrane, and is sometimes called a suborganelle. It forms around tandem repeats of rDNA, DNA coding for ribosomal RNA (rRNA). These regions are called nucleolar organizer regions (NOR)
Chromosomes are composed of DNA. They are found within the nucleus and the DNA is in a super-coiled state. Also, the DNA is wrapped around proteins called histones and packed … into structures called chromosomes. 4 people found this useful. Chromosomes carry the genetic material.   Chromosomes-structures com … posed of DNA and proteins found in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. Chromosomes carry the genetic material. + 6 others
DNA, along with RNA and proteins, is one of the three major macromolecules that are essential for life. Most of the DNA is located in the nucleus, although a small amount can be found in mitochondria (mitochondrial DNA). Within the nucleus of eukaryotic cells, DNA is organized into structures called chromosomes. The complete set of chromosomes in a cell makes up its genome; the human genome has approximately 3 billion base pairs of DNA arranged into 46 chromosomes. 
Chromosomes-structures composed of DNA and proteins found in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. Chromosomes carry the genetic material.   Chromosomes-structures com … posed of DNA and proteins found in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. Chromosomes carry the genetic material. + 6 others found this useful.
Chromosomes-structures composed of DNA and proteins found in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. Chromosomes carry the genetic material.   Chromosomes-structures com … posed of DNA and proteins found in the nucleus of eukaryotic cells. Chromosomes carry the genetic material. + 6 others found this useful.
Most DNA is located in the cell nucleus (where it is called nuclear DNA), but a small amount of DNA can also be found in the mitochondria (where it is called mitochondrial DNA or mtDNA). The information in DNA is stored as a code made up of four chemical bases: adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C), and thymine (T). 
DNA and histone proteins are packaged into structures called chromosomes. In the nucleus of each cell, the DNA molecule is packaged into thread-like structures called chromosomes. Each chromosome is made up of DNA tightly coiled many times around proteins called histones that support its structure. Chromosomes are not visible in the cell’s nucleus—not even under a microscope—when the cell is not dividing.
In cell biology, the nucleus (pl. nuclei; from Latin nucleus or nuculeus, meaning kernel) is a membrane-enclosed organelle found in eukaryotic cells. Eukaryotes usually have a single nucleus, but a few cell types have no nuclei, and a few others have many. The nucleolus is a discrete densely stained structure found in the nucleus. It is not surrounded by a membrane, and is sometimes called a suborganelle. It forms around tandem repeats of rDNA, DNA coding for ribosomal RNA (rRNA). These regions are called nucleolar organizer regions (NOR)
For DNA to function, it can't be crammed into the nucleus like a ball of string. Instead, it is combined with proteins and organized into a precise, compact structure, a dense string-like fiber called chromatin. Only the cells of advanced organisms, known as eukaryotes, have a nucleus. Generally there is only one nucleus per cell, but there are exceptions, such as the cells of slime molds and the Siphonales group of algae. Simpler one-celled organisms (prokaryotes), like the bacteria and cyanobacteria, don't