Downy serviceberry is a small tree or multi-stemmed large shrub. It has a rounded crown with many small arching, spreading branches. Trees grow 20 to 50 feet in height with a variable spread.
In the wild, serviceberries can grow up to 40 feet tall. It generally takes the trees five to 10 years to reach a height of 9 to 10 feet. In urban settings they're usually maintained as shrubs or small trees.
Downy serviceberry (Amelanchier arborea) is a deciduous, small tree or shrub in the rose family (Rosaceae) with a native habitat stretching from Maine to Iowa, south to northern Florida and Louisiana.
Mature Height/Spread. Serviceberry usually grows to between 10 and 25 feet tall and 10 to 15 feet wide. It can however reach upwards of 40 feet, but this is rare in the landscape. It has a narrow, upright, rounded crown of medium-textured foliage with irregular branching habits. Leaves of Amelanchier arborea.
Cumulus Allegheny serviceberry. (Amelanchier laevis 'Cumulus') is a narrow upright small tree that grows 25 feet tall and 12 feet wide. In spring it is covered with clouds of white blossoms. The purple fruits and red-orange fall color extend its seasons of beauty.
Most species are medium-sized and grow at a modest rate -- for example, the downy serviceberry is about 10 feet tall after five to 10 years, eventually becoming 25 feet tall and 15 feet wide -- so allow about 7 or 8 feet of free space around the tree, a spacing that works for any species.
Shadblow Serviceberry-Amelanchier canadensisRose Family (Rosaceae). Introduction: Shadblow serviceberry is a dense multistemmed shrub or small tree that can reach 20 feet tall. It offers showy white flowers in spring, and is the most winter hardy of the serviceberries.
Serviceberry usually grows to between 10 and 25 feet tall and 10 to 15 feet wide. It can however reach upwards of 40 feet, but this is rare in the landscape. It has a narrow, upright, rounded crown of medium-textured foliage with irregular branching habits. Leaves of Amelanchier arborea.