In Cuba, it is very difficult if you do not have dollars. Probably less than 50% of the Cubans have access to dollars. It includes those who work in tourism or those who are fortunate enough to have a family member or friend outside of Cuba that can send them some money. It comes with the airline ticket and the price is usually about $15-$25 US Dollars. Only Cuban Americans are required to obtain a visa from the Cuban Interest Section in Washington DC. If you weren't born in Cuba, you do not need to Contact the Cuba Interest Section.
How much money you need depends on the life style you want to lead and how much you know. In Cuba the ‘I don’t have a clue’ tax is very high. A typical budget will double if you are paying this tax. The best way to take money to Cuba is Cash. Big notes are no problem. Some people think they should take Dollars since that is the number one international currency. That would be a mistake since Cuba is “at war” with the US they impose a 10% penalty to the Dollar.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A lot depends on what you want to do with that money. I you choose to stay on the resort and not go on any tours, you probably just need money for souvenirs, tips plus the CUC 25 exit tax. With the money that you mention, you could do a couple of the local tours, but I doubt that you could visit Havana, say. Source(s):
Money in Cuba is different. We spent a whole chapter in our book on money because it is a surprisingly complicated matter in Cuba. A typical budget for prepared people would be around 50 Euros per day per person but unprepared this can easily double. Prices for a cup of coffee vary from 2 CUC to 1 Peso in the next door place. The best way to take money to Cuba is Cash. Big notes are no problem. Some people think they should take Dollars since that is the number one international currency. That would be a mistake since Cuba is “at war” with the US they impose a 10% penalty to the Dollar.
Cuba Budget Travel. First of all, Cuba is not Asia, which means, prices are way more expensive and it is not possible to live for 5 Euro per day as you can do in some Asian countries. Most travelers, even ones on a tight budget, end up spending more than 10 CUC per day on miscelaneous.. One miscellaneous cost would be the 35 CUC, or however much it is now, exit tax when you leave (25 CUC) Cuba. Oh yeah, and then there's the internet, if you plan to use it while you're in Cuba.
Costs. We spent £29/ $44 per person per day in Cuba. I would advise budgeting $50 a day per person if you are travelling as a couple but if you are a solo traveller it will be more difficult to keep to that as you have to pay the same as a couple for accommodation. 
Many people are surprised that Cuba is not a cheap country to travel in. The average Cuban salary is around $25 a month after all, and travellers expect prices similar to those in Central America. But as we’ve said, Cuba is unlike anywhere else we’ve visited and you can’t expect things to be that straightforward. This is the breakdown of how much this works out on an average daily basis. We budgeted £70 a day which is about US$110 or 110 CUC for two people so we were pretty happy that we came in under budget at £58/ $88 a day or £29/ $44 per person. I doubt we could travel for that on any other Caribbean island.
With the news this week that the US and Cuba will resume diplomatic relations for the first time in over 50 years, many will want to visit Cuba for the first time. “Cars are aplenty in Havana.”. If you’re based in Havana, most taxi rides that stay within the city shouldn’t cost much more than 10 CUC. A ride from the airport to central Havana should be around 20 to 25 CUC. And a trip from Havana to Trinidad (335 km) should be roughly 100 CUC. That same trip to Trinidad costs 25 CUC on the Viazul public bus