Oxidase Test. The oxidase test identifies organisms that produce the enzyme cytochrome oxidase. Cytochrome oxidase participates in the electron transport chain by transferring electrons from a donor molecule to oxygen. 
The oxidase test detects the presence of a cytochrome oxidase system that will catalyse the transport of electrons between electron donors in the bacteria and a redox dye-tetramethyl-p-phenylene-diamine. The dye is reduced to deep purple color. Cytochrome containing organisms produce an intracellular oxidase enzyme. This oxidase enzyme catalyzes the oxidation of cytochrome c. Organisms which contain cytochrome c as part of their respiratory chain are oxidase-positive and turn the reagent blue/purple.
Principle. This test depends on the presence of cytochrome oxidase in bacteria that will catalyze the transport of electrons between electron donors and redox dye. Tetramethyl-p-phenylene diamine dihydrochloride in the reagent is reduced to deep purple color. This test is used for the screening of Pseudomonas, Vibrio, Neisseria, Brucella and Pasteurella, which give positive test. Filter Paper Method. Place a piece of filter paper in petri dish and add 3 drops of freshly prepared oxidase reagent. Using a sterile glass rod, remove a colony of test organisms from a culture plate and smear it on the filter paper.
The oxidase test is a test used in microbiology to determine if a bacterium produces certain cytochrome c oxidases. The test reagent, TMPD dihydrochloride acts as an artificial electron donor for the enzyme oxidase. The oxidized reagent forms the colored compound indophenol blue. The cytochrome system is usually only present in aerobic organisms that are capable of using oxygen as the terminal electron acceptor.
TMPD. The oxidase test is a test used in microbiology to determine if a bacterium produces certain cytochrome c oxidases. It uses disks impregnated with a reagent such as N,N,N′,N′-tetramethyl-p-phenylenediamine (TMPD) or N,N-dimethyl-p -phenylenediamine (DMPD), which is also a redox indicator. The test reagent, TMPD dihydrochloride acts as an artificial electron donor for the enzyme oxidase. The oxidized reagent forms the colored compound indophenol blue. The cytochrome system is usually only present in aerobic organisms that are capable of using oxygen as the terminal electron acceptor.
OXIDASE TEST The oxidase test is a key test to differentiate between the families ofPseudomonadaceae (o x +) a nd Enterobacteriaceae (o x -), a nd is useful for speciationand identification of many other bacteria, those that have to use oxygen as the finalelectron acceptor in aerobic respiration. INTERPRETATION: The reagent acts as an artificial electronacceptor for the enzyme oxidase and isoxidized to form the colored compoundWurster’s blue. Wurster’s blue is a purplecompound that is readily visible and signifiesa positive reaction.
1 The oxidase test is used to determine if an organism possesses the cytochrome oxidase enzyme. 2  The test is used as an aid for the differentiation of Neisseria, Moraxella, Campylobacter and Pasteurella species (oxidase positive). Cytochrome containing organisms produce an intracellular oxidase enzyme. This oxidase enzyme catalyzes the oxidation of cytochrome c. Organisms which contain cytochrome c as part of their respiratory chain are oxidase-positive and turn the reagent blue/purple.
The oxidase test is used to identify bacteria that produce cytochrome c oxidase, an enzyme of the bacterial electron transport chain. (note: All bacteria that are oxidase positive are aerobic, and can use oxygen as a terminal electron acceptor in respiration. This does NOT mean that they are strict aerobes. 
The oxidase test is used to identify bacteria that produce cytochrome c oxidase, an enzyme of the bacterial electron transport chain. Procedure of Oxidase test: 1  Take a filter paper soaked with the substrate tetramethyl-p-phenylenediamine dihydrochloride. 2  Moisten the paper with a sterile distilled water. 3  Pick the colony to be tested with wooden or platinum loop and smear in the filter paper.
The clear oxidase reagent turns blue when cytochrome oxidase adds electrons to the chemical instead of to oxygen, as it normally does. Development of the blue color is positive for presence of the enzyme cytochrome oxidase. The color change does not occur in a negative test. Because of the expense and instability of oxidase reagent, this test is rarely performed in that manner. 