Rural Classification Page: http://www.ers.usda.gov/topics/rural-economy-population/rural-classifications/what-is-rural.aspx. researchers and others who analyze conditions in rural America most often study conditions in nonmetropolitan (nonmetro) areas, defined on the basis of counties. Once this is done, nonmetro/rural is then defined by exclusion -- any area that is not metro/urban is nonmetro/rural. Determining the criteria used has a great impact on the resulting classification of areas as metro/ nonmetro or urban/rural.2. The three primary rural definitions are: 1
Whatever is not urban is considered rural.. Typical rural areas have a low population density and small settlements. Agricultural areas are commonly rural, though so are others such as forests. Different countries have varying definitions of rural for statistical and administrative purposes. RBI defines rural areas as those areas with a population of less than 49,000 (tier -3 to tier-6 cities). It is generally said that the rural areas house up to 70% of India’s population. Rural India contributes a big chunk to India’s GDP by way of agriculture, self-employment, services, construction etc.
In general, a rural area or countryside is a geographic area that is located outside cities and the centers of towns. RBI defines rural areas as those areas with a population of less than 49,000 (tier -3 to tier-6 cities). It is generally said that the rural areas house up to 70% of India’s population. Rural India contributes a big chunk to India’s GDP by way of agriculture, self-employment, services, construction etc.
While there is no one agreed-upon definition for what constitutes rural, most methods of classifying territory along an urban-rural continuum make reference to population size and density, level of urbanization, and/or the relationship to urbanized areas in terms of economic activity, commuting patterns, and so on. Defining Rural: Definitions of Rural Areas in the U.S. Rural Policy Research Institute. The Rural Policy Research Institute provides a very useful overview of many different definitions of rural which have been used in research and policy making.
Researchers and policy officials employ many definitions to distinguish rural from urban areas, which often leads to unnecessary confusion and unwanted mismatches in program eligibility. However, the existence of multiple rural definitions reflects the reality that rural and urban are multidimensional concepts. Sometimes population density is the defining concern, in other cases it is geographic isolation. Whereas researchers often use the term rural when referring to nonmetro areas, and Congressional legislation uses the term when describing different targeting definitions, the Census Bureau provides the official, statistical definition of rural, based strictly on measures of population size and density.
An urban area is a location characterized by high human population density and vast human-built features in comparison to the areas surrounding it. Urban areas may be cities, towns or conurbations, but the term is not commonly extended to rural settlements such as villages and hamlets. The world's urban population in 1950 of just 746 million has soared in the decades since.
Click to view rural/urban county and school district maps. The Center for Rural Pennsylvania’s definition of rural and urban is based on population density. Population density is calculated by dividing the total population of a specific area by the total number of square land miles of that area. A county or school district is rural when the number of persons per square mile within the county or school district is less than 284. Counties and school districts that have 284 persons or more per square mile are considered urban.
Census Bureau Defines Urban and Rural Areas on the Basis of Population Density. A very different definition of rural, based on much smaller geographic building blocks, is provided by the U.S. Census in its urban-rural classification system. Whereas researchers often use the term rural when referring to nonmetro areas, and Congressional legislation uses the term when describing different targeting definitions, the Census Bureau provides the official, statistical definition of rural, based strictly on measures of population size and density.
Introduction to What is Rural. Many people have definitions for the term rural, but seldom are these rural definitions in agreement. For some, rural is a subjective state of mind. For others, rural is an objective quantitative measure. Once this is done, nonmetro/rural is then defined by exclusion -- any area that is not metro/urban is nonmetro/rural. Determining the criteria used has a great impact on the resulting classification of areas as metro/ nonmetro or urban/rural.2. The three primary rural definitions are: 1