1 Find out where your gag reflex starts. 2  This can be done by simply using your toothbrush to brush your tongue. 3  The point nearest the front of your tongue that makes you gag is where you want to concentrate. 4  Brush your tongue right where your gag begins. This is the first step that sword swallower must take and it does require effort and patience over time: 1 
gag reflex is a reflex contraction of the back of the throat, evoked by touching the soft palate. It prevents something from entering the throat except as part of normal swallowing and helps prevent choking. Different people have different sensitivities to the gag reflex. kaylamarie · 5 years ago. 
In a reflex arc, a series of physiological steps occur very rapidly to produce a reflex. Generally a sensory receptor receives an environmental stimulus, in this case from objects reaching nerves in the back of the throat, and sends a message via an afferent nerve to the central nervous system (CNS). About a third of healthy adults do not have a gag reflex. However, in certain cases, absence of the gag reflex and pharyngeal sensation can be a symptom of a number of severe medical conditions, such as damage to the glossopharyngeal nerve, the vagus nerve, or brain death.
gag reflex elevation of the soft palate and retching which is elicited by touching the back of the tongue or the wall of the pharynx; called also pharyngeal reflex. Areas that react in a gag reflex when touched. gastrocolic reflex increase in intestinal peristalsis after food enters the empty stomach. A reflex is built into the nervous system and does not need the intervention of conscious thought to take effect. The knee jerk is an example of the simplest type of reflex. When the knee is tapped, the nerve that receives this stimulus sends an impulse to the spinal cord, where it is relayed to a motor nerve.
1. Numb your soft palate. When an object touches the soft palate (far back in the roof of your mouth), it can trigger the gag reflex. You can use a numbing throat spray to desensitize the soft palate, or a gel that's normally used to relieve tooth pain. This is the first step that sword swallower must take and it does require effort and patience over time: 1  Find out where your gag reflex starts. 2  This can be done by simply using your toothbrush to brush your tongue. 3  The point nearest the front of your tongue that makes you gag is where you want to concentrate.
Gag reflex: Contraction of the back of the throat is triggered by an object touching the roof of the mouth & back of tongue is a protective mechanism to help prevent choking. 
Pharyngeal reflex. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The pharyngeal reflex or gag reflex (also known as a laryngeal spasm) is a reflex contraction of the back of the throat, evoked by touching the roof of the mouth, the back of the tongue, the area around the tonsils and the back of the throat. About a third of healthy adults do not have a gag reflex. However, in certain cases, absence of the gag reflex and pharyngeal sensation can be a symptom of a number of severe medical conditions, such as damage to the glossopharyngeal nerve, the vagus nerve, or brain death.
Starting around the 6- or 7-month mark in babies, the gag reflex diminishes, allowing a baby to swallow chunky or solid foods. In children and adults, the reflex is usually only triggered by the presence of an unusually large object in the back of the throat. Most often, sufferers of HGR gag while eating sticky foods that tend to get stuck in the mouth, such as bananas and mashed potatoes; in extreme cases, oversensitive gagging can cause picky eating or even malnourishment.
The gag reflex, also known as the pharyngeal reflex or laryngeal spasm, is a contraction of the back of the throat triggered by an object touching the roof of your mouth, the back of your tongue, the area around your tonsils, or the back of your throat. Most often, sufferers of HGR gag while eating sticky foods that tend to get stuck in the mouth, such as bananas and mashed potatoes; in extreme cases, oversensitive gagging can cause picky eating or even malnourishment.