The ability to take a tax free lump sum on retirement has long been a popular feature of pension arrangements. Commutation is defined as giving up part or all of the pension payable from retirement in exchange for an immediate lump sum. Commutation factors (usually calculated by the Scheme Actuary) are used to determine the amount of pension which needs to be given up in order to provide th
DEFINITION of 'Commutation'. The right that a beneficiary has to exchange one type of income for another. Commutation is offered to beneficiaries of annuities and life insurance policies, so that they might receive a lump-sum payment instead of a series of future payments.
4. Commutation of a portion of Pension. 4.1 Commutation of Pension means payment of lump sum amount in lieu of a portion of pension surrendered voluntarily by the pensioner based on a duration of period in relation to the age. This is purely an optional facility provided by the Government to the pensioner.
1 From their own pocket and without any access to commutation or pension entitlements. 2  Prior to this amendment the tax treatment of lump sum payments from pension funds such as the commutation of one-third of the total value of retirement benefits was based on interpretation of the legislation.
Commuting your pension may give you the freedom to travel. Digital Vision./Digital Vision/Getty Images. Pension commutation means giving up all or part of one or more of your pensions in exchange for an immediate lump sum and a smaller pension.
Commutation of pension is selling out a part of pension at a rate on which the annuity is determined. You get lumpsum in lieu of commutation which is fully tax free.
In a defined benefit (DB) arrangement (such as a final salary pension) the cash is usually defined as an addition to the pension or by commutation. Commutation is defined as giving up part or all of the pension payable from retirement in exchange for an immediate lump sum. Commutation factors (usually calculated by the Scheme Actuary) are used to determine the amount of pension which needs to be given up in order to provide th