Coniferous trees are very common in the taiga biome. This is why it is often referred to as the boreal forest. These types of trees include Douglas Fir, White Spruce, and Hemlock. There are also lots of lichen and moss that grow in the taiga biome. The Balsam Fir also is found in the taiga biome. They can grow to be up to 80 feet tall which is remarkable. They can also end up living for up to 200 years. Depending on the location, many of the lower branches can die.
Plants Animals Climate Siberian Taiga A biome is the type of habitat in certain places, like mountain tops, deserts, and tropical forests, and is determined by the climate of the place. The taiga is the biome of the needleleaf forest. Living in the taiga is cold and lonely. Animals. Climate. Siberian Taiga.
One of the famous desert biomes out there is called Death Valley. It is located in the Mojave Desert which is in the United States. It spans through three states – Arizona, Nevada, and California. It is 25,000 square miles of sand as far as the eyes can see. 
In North America it covers most of inland Canada and Alaska as well as parts of the extreme northern continental United States (northern Minnesota through the Upper Peninsula of Michigan to Upstate New York and northern New England), where it is known as the Northwoods. The taiga is the terrestrial biome with the lowest annual average temperatures after the tundra and permanent ice caps. Extreme winter minimums in the northern taiga are typically lower than those of the tundra.
The major land biomes have names like tropical rainforest, grasslands, desert, temperate deciduous forest, taiga (also called coniferous or boreal forest), and tundra. The differences in these biomes can be traced to differences in climate and where they are located in relation to the Equator. 
Taiga is the Russian word for forest and is the largest biome in the world. It stretches over Eurasia and North America. The taiga is located near the top of the world, just below the tundra biome. The winters in the taiga are very cold with only snowfall. Animals. Climate. Siberian Taiga. A biome is the type of habitat in certain places, like mountain tops, deserts, and tropical forests, and is determined by the climate of the place. The taiga is the biome of the needleleaf forest. Living in the taiga is cold and lonely.
The taiga biome is one that has very long and cold winters. They summers are short and they are cool in temperature. The cool air masses from the arctic can move in rapidly. The average temperature in the summer is from 64 degrees to 72 degrees. The Balsam Fir also is found in the taiga biome. They can grow to be up to 80 feet tall which is remarkable. They can also end up living for up to 200 years. Depending on the location, many of the lower branches can die.
Taiga is the world's largest land biome, and makes up 29% of the world's forest cover; the largest areas are located in Russia and Canada. The taiga is the terrestrial biome with the lowest annual average temperatures after the tundra and permanent ice caps. Extreme winter minimums in the northern taiga are typically lower than those of the tundra.
–noun /ˈtaɪ gə, taɪˈgɑ/[ tahy-g uh, tahy-gah ]. The taiga is undoubtedly the largest land biome in the world. It spreads from Northern Europe, most of Russia, and Siberia to parts of the United States and Canada. The largest taiga regions are located Canada, Russia, and Alaska. The taiga can also be found on the tops of mountains throughout Earth. The summers are short and cool.