1 Once the wax is loose and soft, all that is usually needed to remove it from the ear canal is a gentle, warm shower. 2  Direct the water into the ear, then tip your head to let the earwax drain out. 3  Dry your ear thoroughly with a hair dryer set on low. 4  Hold the dryer several inches (centimeters) from your ear. Home Treatment. Do not try to remove earwax if you have ear pain or a discharge that looks different than earwax, if you think you have a ruptured eardrum, if you have had ear surgery, or if you have tubes in your ears.
1 Do not use cotton swabs, bobby pins, or other objects to clean the ear. 2  Do not use a dental irrigation device, such as a Water Pik, to remove earwax. 3  The force of the water injures the ear canal and ruptures the eardrum. Home Treatment. Do not try to remove earwax if you have ear pain or a discharge that looks different than earwax, if you think you have a ruptured eardrum, if you have had ear surgery, or if you have tubes in your ears.
1 Use warm water. 2  After a day or two, when the wax is softened, use a rubber-bulb syringe to gently squirt warm water into your ear canal. 3  Tilt your head and pull your outer ear up and back to straighten your ear canal. 1 Use an eyedropper to apply a few drops of baby oil, mineral oil, glycerin or hydrogen peroxide in your ear canal. 2  Use warm water. 3
1 Soften the wax. 2  Use an eyedropper to apply a few drops of baby oil, mineral oil, glycerin or hydrogen peroxide in your ear canal. 3  Use warm water. 4  After a day or two, when the wax is softened, use a rubber-bulb syringe to gently squirt warm water into your ear canal. 1 Use an eyedropper to apply a few drops of baby oil, mineral oil, glycerin or hydrogen peroxide in your ear canal. 2  Use warm water. 3
1 Soften and loosen the earwax with warm mineral oil or a mixture of hydrogen peroxide mixed with an equal amount of room-temperature water. 2  Place 2 drops of the fluid, warmed to body temperature, in the ear twice a day for up to 5 days. Home Treatment. Do not try to remove earwax if you have ear pain or a discharge that looks different than earwax, if you think you have a ruptured eardrum, if you have had ear surgery, or if you have tubes in your ears.
To clean the ears, wash the external ear with a cloth, but do not insert anything into the ear canal. Most cases of ear wax blockage respond to home treatments used to soften wax. Patients can try placing a few drops of mineral oil, baby oil, glycerin, or commercial drops in the ear. 
How to Clean Impacted Ear Wax. Impacted earwax may occur in people of all ages. Impacted earwax occurs when wax or cerumen builds up in the ear canal, often as a result of external objects, such as hearing aids, ear plugs or cotton swabs, blocking the ear canal. 
If earwax is giving you trouble, here are some suggestions on how to clean it out: 1  DON’T use cotton swabs, such as Q-tips. 2  They pack the wax in and may damage your ears. 3  Never use anything to clean your ears that’s smaller than a finger in a washcloth. –. 4  DON’T use ear candles for removal. 
1 The use of hydrogen peroxide ear wax home remedy is very effective and is commonly used by many people. 2  Lie down on one side, with the affected ear facing up. 3  Using a dropper, pour a few drops of hydrogen peroxide into the ear, to clean it out. 1 Lie down on one side, with the affected ear facing up. 2  Using a dropper, pour a few drops of hydrogen peroxide into the ear, to clean it out. 3  Remain still, till a bubbling sound is heard and then, once the sound subsides, turn over, allowing the hydrogen peroxide to flow out, taking along pieces of earwax with it.
How Not to Clean your Ears. Ear wax is not formed in the deep part of the ear canal. Therefore, when a doctor sees someone with a build-up of wax against the eardrum, it is often because the person used foreign objects to try to clean out the inner ear. How to Safely Clean Your Ears. Normally, ear canals are self-cleaning and should not need to be cleared with any foreign devices. Trying to clean the ear with cotton swabs or other objects can actually cause problems by pushing the ear wax deeper into