Tenants often underestimate the value of a lease audit but this is an important tool for tenants that should not be overlooked. The primary purpose of a lease audit is to ensure that the tenant is not being overbilled and that the bill is fair pursuant to the terms of the lease. Some leases may also include details related to where the audit shall take place, who pays for the cost of the audit, and who is permitted to conduct the audit. Two important details to determine are the window of time to conduct a lease audit and the scope of the audit right.
Your audit rights enable you to confirm the accuracy of the maintenance charges the landlord sends along to his triple net tenants. It’s important to have an audit clause that covers key points, such as who performs the audit, who pays for it, and how you’ll handle errors the audit uncovers. 
Lease Auditing is also referred to as Rent Audit, Lease Compliance Review, CAM Audit or Escalation Expense Audit. Lease auditing is a systematic process that examines leasehold expenses, billing methodologies and lease language in commercial leases. A lease audit can help verify that charges billed to you are accurate and in compliance with your lease terms. Areas of a Compliance Review Typically Include: 1  Annual Reconciliations / Operating Expenses / CAM Charges.
“A lease audit is the meticulous validating of all leasehold expenses issued by a landlord” to the tenant. See Edward Harris and Craig Fuller, 7 Red Flags That Should Trigger a Lease Audit, Arizona Attorney at 22-26 (December 2012). Some leases may also include details related to where the audit shall take place, who pays for the cost of the audit, and who is permitted to conduct the audit. Two important details to determine are the window of time to conduct a lease audit and the scope of the audit right.
Lease Audit is a systematic process consisting of the examination of all documents associated with the lease, the measurement of space and the interpretation of lease language. Normally, it is the landlord who overcharged a tenant and the tenant therefore needs to perform a lease audit. Landlords, on the other hand, may also perform a lease audit against a tenant; this is mainly because of the percentage rent charged. Lease audit is also referred to as Rent Audit, CAM Audit and Escalation Expense Audit. However, as the audit involves the inspection of other rights and obligations, names such as Lease Compliance Consulting and Lease Review are more appropriate
What is a lease audit?A lease audit is an in-depth review of a tenant's occupancy costs to ensure that those costs are in compliance with the lease requirements.Why audit my leases?CRS has discovered significant errors in occupancy charges in over 50% of the leases we have audited. 
A Lease Audit is sometimes referred to as a CAM audit or Operating Expense audit. It is a contract compliance engagement that includes an inspection of a landlord’s accounting records to ensure tenants are billed for the appropriate share of a building’s operating expenses and taxes. IMPROVE. A benefit to conducting a lease audit beyond the recovery of overpayments is the lease summary prepared by CTMI during the audit course, the increased knowledge and awareness of potential issues and the improved internal control process on a go forward basis. Most every company has an office lease agreement
A lease audit is a comprehensive analysis of lease terms and validation of charges to ensure that amounts billed are correct. It involves a disciplined review of lease documents, invoices and various other materials. Lease audits help you gain control over one of your largest and most critical expenses: occupancy costs. Real estate can be one of a company’s most significant expenses, and commercial leases are one of its key components.