Italian (italiano). Italian is a Romance language spoken by about 60 million people in Italy, Switzerland, San Marino, the Vatican City, Malta and Eritrea. There are also Italian speakers in Chile, Argentina, Brazil, Australia, Canada, the USA and the UK. Italian first started to appear in written documents during the 10th century in the form of notes and short texts inserted into Latin documents such as lawsuits and poetry. For a long time there was no standard written or spoken language in Italy and writers tended to write in their own regional dialects.
In the European Union statistics, Italian is spoken as a native language by 13% of the EU population, or 65 million people, mainly in Italy. In the EU, it is spoken as a second language by 3% of the EU population, or 14 million people. The Italian language adopted by the state after the unification of Italy is based on Tuscan, which beforehand was a language spoken mostly by the upper class of Florentine society.
Listen to Italian as spoken by a native Italian speaker. There are vocabulary lists, conversational Italian, numbers, and Italian survival phrases. Listen to how each Italian language phrase is pronounced, read the written phrases, and repeat. Improve your listening skills with the Italian word of the day feature and learn how to speak Italian. Improve your pronunciation and build your vocabulary
But Italian is the 3rd foreign language spoken at home in US and it represents the 2nd largest ethnic market in the US behind only the Hispanic market. Cities with Italian and Sicilian speaking communities include Buffalo, Chicago, Miami, New York City, Philadelphia, and St. Louis. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Italian language has been a widely spoken language in the United States of America for more than one hundred years, due to large-scale immigration beginning in the late 19th century. Today it is the eighth most spoken language in the country.
Additionally, it's spoken in such former Italian colonies of Eritrea, Ethiopia, Libya, Somalia, and Tianjin/Tientsin, China. Moreover, it's spoken throughout the countries of the European Union, of which Italy is a member. Furthermore, it's spoken in international businesses and organizations, and indeed wherever there are Italian communities worldwide.
Graduate study, travel, work make me an expert in benthics, European languages, wildlife mapping, world fauna and flora. Italian is spoken throughout the Italian peninsula and the islands of Sicily, Sardinia, and Corsica. It also is spoken in Italy's neighbors: Albania, Austria, France, Slovenia, and Switzerland. It's spoken, too, in nearby Monaco, the island of Malta, and the Greek islands of Rhodes and the Dodecanese ['the Twelve']. Moreover, it's spoken throughout the countries of the European Union, of which Italy is a member. Furthermore, it's spoken in international businesses and organizations, and indeed wherever there are Italian communities worldwide.
Although Italian is only an official language in Italy, Switzerland and San Marino, dialects are spoken across the Adriatic in Croatia and Slovenia. Italian is also widely spoken by expatriate groups in North and South America, Australia and parts of Northern Africa. 
The Italian language has been a widely spoken language in the United States of America for more than one hundred years, due to large-scale immigration beginning in the late 19th century. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Italian language has been a widely spoken language in the United States of America for more than one hundred years, due to large-scale immigration beginning in the late 19th century. Today it is the eighth most spoken language in the country.
About the Italian language. Italian is spoken by about 70 million people worldwide, of whom 60 million speak it as a first language. It is the main language of Italy, and is also spoken in the Canton Ticino region of Switzerland, Croatia, as well as by a large number of emigrants around the world. Todi, Umbria, Italy. Italian is spoken by about 70 million people worldwide, of whom 60 million speak it as a first language. It is the main language of Italy, and is also spoken in the Canton Ticino region of Switzerland, Croatia, as well as by a large number of emigrants around the world