There is also a hole through each of the vertebra where the spinal cord goes. 1  The top 7 are called the cervical (say ser-vik-al) vertebrae and they support your head and neck. 2  The next 12 are called the thoracic (say thor-ass-ik) vertebrae. 3  These hold one end of your ribs. 4  The next 5 are the lumbar vertebrae. 
Most vertebrates have a spinal column made of bones called vertebrae. But some, such as the shark, do not have a bony spinal column. Sharks have vertebrae made of cartilage. All vertebrates are bilaterally symmetrical-that is, the left and right sides of the body are alike. Those bones are called vertebrae so the animals are vertebrates. The animals that do not have backbones are called invertebrates. Some examples of vertebrates include human beings, cats, dogs, fish, elephants, and chickens.
These nerves must pass between the protective barrier of the spinal column to connect the spinal cord to the rest of the body. The location of the nerves in the spinal cord determine their function. The spongy spinal cord is protected by the irregular shaped bones of the spinal column called vertebrae. Spinal vertebrae are components of the axial skeleton and each contain an opening that serves as a channel for the spinal cord to pass through. The axons that link the spinal cord to the muscles and the rest of the body are bundled into 31 pairs of spinal nerves, each pair with a sensory root and a motor root that make connections within the grey matter.
The base of your spine (sacrum) is a fusion of many bones, and when one of them forms as a vertebra rather than part of the sacrum, it is called a transitional (or sixth) vertebra. This occurrence is not dangerous and does not appear to have any serious side effects. There are two facet joints between each pair of vertebra, one on each side. They extend and overlap each other to form a joint between the neighboring vertebra facet joints. Without the facet joints, you would not have flexibility in your spine, and you could only move in very straight and stiff motions.
The spinal cord (and brain) are protected by three layers of tissue or membranes called meninges, that surround the canal. The dura mater is the outermost layer, and it forms a tough protective coating. Between the dura mater and the surrounding bone of the vertebrae is a space called the epidural space. For the nerves of the lower spinal cord, this means that they exit the vertebral column much lower (more caudally) than their roots. As these nerves travel from their respective roots to their point of exit from the vertebral column, the nerves of the lower spinal segments form a bundle called the cauda equina.
Laminectomy is the surgical removal of a bony area of the spine called the lamina. The lamina is the back part of each vertebra of your spine and forms the back wall of your spinal canal. Your spinal cord runs through your spinal canal in the center of your vertebrae. 
The spine is also designed to protect your spinal cord. The spinal cord is a column of nerves that connects your brain with the rest of your body, allowing you to control your movements. Without a spinal cord, you could not move any part of your body, and your organs could not function. This is why keeping your spine healthy is vital if you want to live an active life. There are two facet joints between each pair of vertebra, one on each side. They extend and overlap each other to form a joint between the neighboring vertebra facet joints. Without the facet joints, you would not have flexibility in your spine, and you could only move in very straight and stiff motions.
The spinal cord is a long, thin, tubular bundle of nervous tissue and support cells that extends from the medulla oblongata in the brainstem to the lumbar region of the vertebral column. The brain and spinal cord together make up the central nervous system (CNS). For the nerves of the lower spinal cord, this means that they exit the vertebral column much lower (more caudally) than their roots. As these nerves travel from their respective roots to their point of exit from the vertebral column, the nerves of the lower spinal segments form a bundle called the cauda equina.
Most vertebrates have a spinal column made of bones called vertebrae (see SPINE). But some, such as the shark, do not have a bony spinal column. Sharks have vertebrae made of cartilage. Vertebrates are classified in the phylum chordata and make up the subphylum vertebrata. Those bones are called vertebrae so the animals are vertebrates. The animals that do not have backbones are called invertebrates. Some examples of vertebrates include human beings, cats, dogs, fish, elephants, and chickens.