1. Antilles-a group of islands in the West Indies. the Indies, West Indies-the string of islands between North America and South America; a popular resort area. Greater Antilles-a group of islands in the western West Indies. Caribees, Lesser Antilles-a group of islands in the southeastern West Indies. An·til·les. The islands of the West Indies except for the Bahamas, separating the Caribbean Sea from the Atlantic Ocean and divided into the Greater Antilles to the north and the Lesser Antilles to the east.
The Netherlands Antilles are a group of five islands in the South Caribbean, close to the Venezuelan coast. They are often categorized into the Windward Islands – Saba, Sint Eustatius and Sint Maarten – which lie to the north, and the southern, or Leeward Islands of Bonaire and Curacao. Curacao is the largest of the islands and its main town, Willemstad, functioned as the administrative capital for the Netherlands Antilles. Its importance reaches back into history; it formed a headquarters for the Dutch military in the Caribbean area in the 1600s and was also the center of the Caribbean slave trade.
Map of the Antilles. The Antilles (/aenˈtɪliːz/ ; ænˈtɪliːz [antilles.ɑ̃] tij In; French antillas In; Spanish antillen In dutch And antilhas In) portuguese are an archipelago bordered by The Caribbean sea to the south and, west The gulf Of mexico to the, northwest and The Atlantic ocean to the north and. east The Antilles were called multiple names before their current name became the norm. Early Spanish visitors called them the Windward Islands. They were also called the Forward Islands by 18th century British.
Together, the Lesser Antilles and the Greater Antilles compose the Antilles (or the Caribbean in its narrowest definition). When combined with the Lucayan Archipelago, all three are known as the West Indies. The Lesser Antilles are divided into eight independent nations and numerous dependent and non-sovereign states (which are politically associated with the United Kingdom, France, the Netherlands, and the United States).
The Greater Antilles are the four largest islands in the northwestern portion of the Caribbean Sea and include Cuba, Hispaniola (Haiti and the Dominican Republic), Jamaica, and Puerto Rico. The Lesser Antilles include the smaller islands of the Caribbean-the Virgin Islands and the Windward Islands and Leeward Islands. The West Indies are composed of the islands of the Caribbean Sea and can be divided into the Greater Antilles and the Lesser Antilles.
The Lesser Antilles more or less coincide with the outer edge of the Caribbean Plate. Many of the islands were formed as a result of the subduction of oceanic crust of the South American Plate under the Caribbean Plate in the Lesser Antilles subduction zone. The Lesser Antilles are divided into eight independent nations and numerous dependent and non-sovereign states (which are politically associated with the United Kingdom, France, the Netherlands, and the United States).
1. Antilles-a group of islands in the West Indies. the Indies, West Indies-the string of islands between North America and South America; a popular resort area. Greater Antilles-a group of islands in the western West Indies. Caribees, Lesser Antilles-a group of islands in the southeastern West Indies. The islands of the West Indies except for the Bahamas, separating the Caribbean Sea from the Atlantic Ocean and divided into the Greater Antilles to the north and the Lesser Antilles to the east.
The Lesser Antilles (also known as the Caribbees) is the name given to a group of islands in the Caribbean Sea. Most form a long, partly volcanic island arc between the Greater Antilles to the north-west and the continent of South America. The Lesser Antilles are divided into eight independent nations and numerous dependent and non-sovereign states (which are politically associated with the United Kingdom, France, the Netherlands, and the United States).