JHK2303/iStock/Getty Images. Chambray, a double-ply cotton fabric with a tight weave, is similar to denim but not the same. It has a white filler thread woven in with a colored background thread. But unlike denim's twill weave, chambray has a plain weave, so it's smoother and lighter in weight. Chambray is rugged but light, making it suitable for work wear as well as summer-weight shirts and skirts.
Chambray fabric is a light woven fabric, comprising of a colored / dyed yarn in the warp, woven with a white yarn thread in the weft, imparting it that classic denim look. Chambray Fabric is a woven fabric, and is usually woven with 100% cotton yarn threads. A colored or dyed yarn is inter-woven with a white yarn thread. Commonly used colors for weaving chambray fabric, are light to medium blue (denim blue), soft pink and red, as well as light aqua and khaki colors. Chambray generally has a faded look, with soft colors, rather than sharp shades. Sometimes chambray is made from linen, silk or other fibers, but most of it is woven with 100% cotton fibers. Atlantis Chambray fabrics are from India and are usually mill woven for consistency in weaves and colors.
Overview. While chambray (below) and denim (above) are often confused for one another, they’re not exactly the same fabric. A chambray is a plain weave fabric woven with a colored yarn in the warp and a white yarn in the weft. Checkout more Proper Cloth chambray and denim fabrics here. Chambray Shirting Fabric. Obviously, the denim that we are all most familiar with is the kind used to make jeans or 90’s style Jean Jackets. This denim is generally very heavy, and in most cases would not make for a comfortable shirt.
chambray is traditionally woven in a “ plain weave “, where the warp and weft form a dense criss-cross. contrast this with the looser “ leno weave ” of double gauze which creates a sheer and airy fabric. what makes the plain weave of chambray different from that of a muslin or a voile is that it is made up of white weft and colored wrap threads. you may immediately think of a denim-like indigo color, but it is also available in reds, whites, and a variety of yarn-dyed colors as well.
Here it is in layman’s terms: chambray, typically made from cotton yarn, is usually constructed by weaving blue or indigo yarn running lengthwise (the warp) against white yarn running horizontally (the weft). The weave is dense, but the yarn fine, making the fabric lightweight and durable. 
Chambray and denim are types of cloth fabrics. Usually, they are both blue in color on the bolt, but color variations are available in both types. Both are coarse cloths, that is, the threads per inch in the cloths is lower than for finer, higher count fabrics such as percale. Both are made of cotton. Chambray is the lighter of the two fabrics; sort of like muslin. It is also usually light blue in color. Denim is the heavier of the two fabrics; similar to a lightweight canvas. Chambray is usually used to make long and short sleeved work shirts, while denim is usually used to make work pants or jeans. Denim is also used to make overalls, skirts, jackets, purses, shorts, pillows, and sundry other useful items that require durability from the cloth.
simply put, chambray is two colors of thread woven together to form a fabric with a unique texture and depth of color. but to fully understand how chambray is created, first we must know the very basic building blocks of cloth: warp and weft. what makes the plain weave of chambray different from that of a muslin or a voile is that it is made up of white weft and colored wrap threads. you may immediately think of a denim-like indigo color, but it is also available in reds, whites, and a variety of yarn-dyed colors as well.
Like chambray, denim is made with a colored yarn in the warp and white in the weft, but is woven in a twill construction. The chambray’s warp and weft threads will alternate one over the other, while denim’s warp thread will go over two threads in the weft before going under one. Checkout more Proper Cloth chambray and denim fabrics here. Chambray Shirting Fabric. Obviously, the denim that we are all most familiar with is the kind used to make jeans or 90’s style Jean Jackets. This denim is generally very heavy, and in most cases would not make for a comfortable shirt.