The melting point for aluminum foil is 660 C or 1220 F (The melting point of the foil, which is about 97% aluminum) is the same as that of aluminum. if it's made of aluminum … it melts at 660oC regardless of size or shape, but the aluminum oxide anodizing will melt at about 2000oC See the link below. Aluminum burns at over 4,100 K (6920°F), which is why it is used as a component of some solid rocket fuels. When it burns, it produces Al2O3 (alumina). Wow!
Thermite is a pyrotechnic composition of metal powder fuel and metal oxide. When ignited by heat, thermite undergoes an exothermic reduction-oxidation (redox) reaction. Most varieties are not explosive but can create brief bursts of high temperature in a small area. Thermate-TH3 is a mixture of thermite and pyrotechnic additives which have been found to be superior to standard thermite for incendiary purposes. Its composition by weight is generally about 68.7% thermite, 29.0% barium nitrate, 2.0% sulfur, and 0.3% of a binder (such as PBAN).
This experiment will peer into the element Aluminum to see whether it will burn or melt when exposed to a flame. Hypothesis: The hypothesis of this experiment is that Aluminum will melt when exposed to flames. This judgement is based on the usual behavior of metals that are exposed to flame. 
Aluminum burns at over 4,100 K (6920°F), which is why it is used as a component of some solid rocket fuels. When it burns, it produces Al2O3 (alumina). Wow! You can rea … lly get some high exhaust gas velocity (and thrust) this way! Answer by Boxerdave1085. Confidence votes 19. I do not think it can burn. the show you see as burning-like (it shrinks dramatically) is due to residual tensions into the material, following to calendering process used to make it as a foil.
Therefore when aluminium is exposed to a prolonged fire environment it will begin to melt (not burn), provided that the metal's temperature passes the melting point. The same set of standards gives aluminium high marks on the fire resistance versus spreading scale. It is extremely useful to examine aluminium's behaviour under fire conditions, with reference to its relevant properties. Most Aluminium alloys have a melting point between 600 and 660 degrees Celsius.
At what temperature does aluminum turn into a solid? The scientific standard typically refers to the state change you refer to in terms of going up, so you need to know the melting point of aluminum to know when it becomes solid … , which is 933.47 Kelvin (660.32°C or 1220.58°F). Aluminum burns at over 4,100 K (6920°F), which is why it is used as a component of some solid rocket fuels. When it burns, it produces Al2O3 (alumina). Wow!
The melting temperature of aluminum foil is 660 degrees Celsius (1,220 degrees Fahrenheit) at standard pressure, so it won’t melt with temperatures encountered in a standard household oven. The physical form of the aluminum, whether powder, blocks, foil or some other shape, does not affect the melting point as long as the metal is relatively pure; melting point is an intrinsic property of the metal, but shape is not.
The melting point for aluminum foil is 660 C or 1220 F (The melting point of the foil, which is about 97% aluminum) is the same as that of aluminum. if it's made of aluminum … it melts at 660oC regardless of size or shape, but the aluminum oxide anodizing will melt at about 2000oC See the link below. Answer by Boxerdave1085. Confidence votes 19. I do not think it can burn. the show you see as burning-like (it shrinks dramatically) is due to residual tensions into the material, following to calendering process used to make it as a foil.