Step 5. Rake the soil in the field to produce a fine soil bed for planting. The rake smooths out the large clumps of soil and makes the planting surface level. Set the plow to create furrows for planting and plant the seeds or plants desired. 
1 If you don't have manure, loosen the soil and mix in a 2- to 4-inch layer of compost. 2  Plant the seeds 1 inch deep into the hills (4 to 5 seeds per hill). 3  Space hills 4 to 8 feet apart. 4  Your plants should germinate in less than a week with the right soil temperautre (70 degrees F) and emerge in 5 to 10 days. 1 Pick a site with full sun (to light shade) and lots of space for sprawling vines. 2  Vine varieties need 50 to 100 square feet per hill. 3  However, if your garden space is limited, no worries! 4  Plant pumpkins at the edge of the garden and direct vine growth across the lawn or sidewalk.
Choose a spot toward the center of where you want the vines to grow. Plant 2 or 3 seeds in the same area in case one doesn't sprout. Pat soil over the seeds and water them well after planting. If you aim to grow more than one pumpkin plant, space them at least 5 feet (1.5 m) apart. Mini varieties can be spaced 3 feet (0.9 m) apart. 1  If you live in a place with strong winds, you can plant the seeds in a trench about 3 inches (7.6 cm) deep
1. Water the pumpkin plants when the soil moisture is low. Pumpkin plants need a lot of water, but they shouldn't get too much. Make a habit of watering them when the soil seems a little dry, rather than adding more water to wet soil. 1  When you do water the plant, use a lot of water and let it soak deep into the soil. 
Remove the disker plow and add the final plow needed to prepare a field for planting. This plow is again attached to the tractor via a hitch and is called a lay-off plow. Lay-off plows have a single wide prong used to make rows where you can plant your crops. 
When to Plant Pumpkin Seeds. Before you can grow pumpkin seeds, you need to know when to plant pumpkin seeds. When you plant your pumpkins depends on what you plant on using them for. Starting Pumpkin Seeds Outside. When you plant pumpkin seeds outside, you need to realize that pumpkins need an incredible amount of space to grow. It is recommended that you plan on a minimum of 20 square feet being needed for each plant. When the soil temperature is at least 65 F., you can plant your pumpkin seeds. Pumpkin seeds will not germinate in cold soil. Mound the soil in the center of the chosen location up a bit to help the sun heat the pumpkin seeds better. The warmer the soil is, the faster the pumpkin seeds will germinate. In the mound, plant 3-5 pumpkin seeds about 1 inch deep
1. Prepare your soil. If you are anticipating growing in the spring, the soil can be prepared in the fall. Leaves and raw manure should be worked into the soil. A hoe can be used but a rototiller is better if one is available. In the spring, work rotted manure and compost into the soil. Kitchen waste works very well. 3. We used the seed package as a plant tag to identify the type of pumpkins we grew. There are various breeds of pumpkin and unless you want to grow giant pumpkins for competition, then you should plan sowing seed anywhere from May 15th to June 15th. This is ideal for Jack-o-lanterns and field pumpkins.
Choose a spot in your garden or flower bed where you can plant your seed roughly at the center of where you expect the vines to spread. We get quite a bit of wind on our farm. Wind can be really hard on pumpkin leaves and vines. To mitigate this we plan our vine rows so they grow in the same direction as the wind. If you have a lot of wind, and you are planting in a spot that isn't protected, you might want to consider planting your vine rows based on the wind direction. You can also put up shade cloth or temporary fencing to help protect your vines. When to plant: Pumpkins are very frost sensitive. 