Mahabharat TV Serial All Characters Real Names with Photographs information and details has been provided here. Mahabharat is the most popular TV serial in India which is being produced on Star Plus. It is based on ancient Hindu epic ‘Mahabharata’. It was first aired on 16th September, 2013 and running till date when writing this article. Related: Mahabharat to go off air. Brief Information of Mahabharat TV Serial / Series. 1  Directors: Mukesh Singh, Siddharth Anand Kumar, Loknath Pandey, Amarpith G, Kamal Monga and S Chawda. 2  Production House / Company name: Swastik Productions Ltd
Young Karna original name is Gananay Shukla. Young Ashwathama original name is Yagya Saxena. Young Malini original name is Ananya Agarwal. We expect that the information on Mahabharat TV Series Cast Original Names with Images will be useful to all the fans of this amazing, and interesting TV series. This TV series is based on ancient Hindu epic ‘Mahabharata’. It was one of the most popular TV series in India on Star Plus. In this article, we have provided all characters real names/original names with their photographs.
Actress | Writer | Director. Erika Alexander was born on November 19, 1969 in Winslow, Arizona, USA as Erika Rose Alexander. She is an actress and writer, known for Living Single (1993), Deja Vu (2006) and The Mahabharata (1989). She has been married to Tony Puryear since September 27, 1997
Mahabharat TV Series Cast Original Names with Images information given here. The first episode of Mahabharat TV series was premiered on September 16, 2013 and the last episode aired on August 16, 2014. This TV series is based on ancient Hindu epic ‘Mahabharata’. It was one of the most popular TV series in India on Star Plus. In this article, we have provided all characters real names/original names with their photographs.
Mahabharat is an Indian Hindi-language historical television drama series on STAR Plus based on the Sanskrit epic Mahabharata. It is a remake of the 1988 TV series of the same name. It ran from 16 September 2013 to 16 August 2014 on STAR Plus. Mahabharat presents the story of the throne of Hastinapur, the kingdom ruled by the Kuru clan where Kauravas and the Pandavas brothers compete for rulership. Both Duryodhan and Yudhisthir claim to be first in line to inherit the throne.
Pooja Sharma is an Indian model-turned actress. She made her acting debut from Star Plus Teri Meri Love Stories with Karan Kundra. She was one of the top 10 finalists in Femina Miss India 2006. She was seen playing the role of Draupadi in the mythological serials 'Mahabharat' on Star Plus. Mahabharat was an Indian Hindi-language mythological television drama series on STAR Plus based on the Sanskrit epic Mahabharata. It was produced by Swastik Productions Pvt. Ltd..Pooja Sharma portrayed the role of Draupadi aka Panchali, daughter of King Draupad in Mahabharat.
For the 2013 Star Plus series produced by Swastik Pictures, see Mahabharat (2013 TV series) . Mahabharat is an Indian television series based on the Hindu epic of the same name. The 94-episode Hindi series originally ran from 2 October 1988 to 24 June 1990 on DD National. It was produced by B. R. Chopra and directed by his son Ravi Chopra. The music was composed by Rajkamal