The historic centre, also known as the Madrid of Los Austrias (in reference to the Hapsburg monarchs), and the spectacular Plaza Mayor square –inaugurated in 1620 and one of the most popular and typical sites in Spain– are a living example of the nascent splendour of the city in the 16th and 17th centuries.
In many ways, Madrid is similar to many other international metropolises — it's Spain's largest city, has the largest population, is the capital and is the center for international business.
The capital of Spain, Madrid, is full of unique architecture and culture that cannot be found anywhere else in the world. If you dream of visiting this magnificent city, then you should book your flights to Madrid with Expedia. We can also find you amazing deals on some of the best accommodations in the city.
Sitemap & index Other spectacular travel destinations 101 reasons to visit Madrid There are a hundred and one good reasons why you should CHOOSE to visit Madrid Spain and this Madrid guide is dedicated to more than just the top Madrid attractions and Hotels in Madrid ...
Madrid is well connected to other European cities as well, such as Paris (France), Lisbon (Portugal), Milan (Italy) and Zurich (Switzerland). Buses represent one of the best ways to travel in Spain and Madrid is well connected to all the major Spanish cities.
Madrid, the capital of Spain, is a cosmopolitan city that combines the most modern infrastructures and the status as an economic, financial, administrative and service centre, with a large cultural and artistic heritage, a legacy of centuries of exciting history.
In recent years, Madrid has also become the European hub for sports as the city played host to the 2010 Champions League final in the Real Madrid Santiago Bernabeu Stadium. Madrid is located in the center of Continental Spain and therefore makes an excellent base to travel to various corners of Spain. Whether you are planning to travel to Barcelona, or down south to the beaches of Costa del Sol or up north along the Camino de Santiago, Madrid is always your starting point.
Visit Madrid through the eyes of a city native! Your Madrid guide is ideal for sightseeing in Madrid and not simply as per the guidebooks!Visiting Madrid as part of a Spain vacation, or on its own, you can be assured a unique Madrid experience! The 150 plus pages here guarantee that! Madrid Airport Madrid flights Madrid Trains More...