Contractions in striated muscles are voluntary, except for the heart muscle, in which contractions are involuntary. Cardiac muscle is often treated separately from the other striated muscles, as it has somewhat different characteristics. A sarcomere is the functional unit of striated muscles. Striated muscle tissue is muscle tissue that has repeating sarcomeres, in contrast with smooth muscle tissue. Specifically, striated muscles are: 1  Pharyngeal muscle (embryologically different from skeletal muscle). 2  Cardiac muscle (heart muscle). 3  Skeletal muscle
Skeletal muscle is striated muscle tissue that is attached to bones. It is composed of fibers that look like a mixture of dark and light bands bundled together that run along the bone. There are three different types of muscle tissue within the body. Skeletal muscle is striated muscle tissue that is attached to bones. Skeletal muscle attaches to the bones. At the macroscopic level, the skeletal muscles are composed of a variety of layers. Working out strengthens skeletal muscles, making them more visibl
The A and I bands repeat along the length of the muscle fibers to create the striations visible under the light microscope. 1  Sarcomeres repeat along skeletal and cardiac fibers. 2  Components between adjacent Z-lines comprise the sarcomere. 3  Sarcomeres are considered the functional units of striated muscles. Striations are a key attribute to identify skeletal and cardiac muscle types. Although striations are usually visible in most sections of these muscle types, it can sometimes take a little adjustment of the microscope lighting to see them clearly.
In contrast to smooth muscle, cardiac and skeletal muscle types possess an internal ultrastructure of highly organized contractile myofilaments. Actin and myosin myofilaments are stacked and overlapped in regular repeating arrays to form sarcomeres. Striations are a key attribute to identify skeletal and cardiac muscle types. Although striations are usually visible in most sections of these muscle types, it can sometimes take a little adjustment of the microscope lighting to see them clearly.
Skeletal muscle is a form of striated muscle tissue which is under the voluntary control of the somatic nervous system. It is one of three major muscle types, the others being cardiac muscle and smooth muscle. Most skeletal muscles are attached to bones by bundles of collagen fibers known as tendons. The myofibrils are composed of actin and myosin filaments, repeated in units called sarcomeres, the basic functional units of the muscle fiber. The sarcomere is responsible for the striated appearance of skeletal muscle, and forms the basic machinery necessary for muscle contraction. The term muscle refers to multiple bundles of muscle fibers called fascicles. All muscles also contain connective tissue arranged in layers of fasciae
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Sarcomeres The sarcomeres are what give skeletal and cardiac muscles their striated appearance. A sarcomere is defined as the segment between two neighbouring Z-lines (or Z-discs, or Z bodies). 
People may condition their striated muscles through exercises. Skeletal muscle and cardiac muscle are types of striated muscle. Skeletal muscles, a type of striated muscle, are voluntary muscles that allow for the movement of bones and joints. Thousands of sarcomeres form striated muscles. View slideshow of images abov