A geothermal heat pump or ground source heat pump (GSHP) is a central heating and/or cooling system that transfers heat to or from the ground. It uses the earth as a heat source (in the winter) or a heat sink (in the summer). This article is about using heat pumps to heat and cool buildings using the earth as a heat reservoir. For generation of electricity from genuine geothermal energy from hot rocks, see geothermal power. For using energy from hot rocks to heat directly, see geothermal heating.
Geothermal Cooling. In the cooling mode, the heating process is reversed-creating cool, conditioned air throughout the home. Instead of extracting heat from the ground, heat is extracted from the air in your home and either moved back into the earth loop, or used to preheat the water in your hot water tank. WaterFurnace geothermal systems are able to tap into this free energy with an earth loop. This technology is then used to provide your home or office with central heating and cooling. Geothermal Heating. During the heating cycle, a WaterFurnace geothermal heat pump uses the earth loop to extract heat from the ground.
The GSHP is one of the most efficient residential heating and cooling systems available today, with heating efficiencies 50 to 70% higher than other heating systems and cooling efficiencies 20 to 40% higher than available air conditioners. That directly translates into savings for you on your utility bills. 
Geothermal heating is the direct use of geothermal energy for heating applications. Humans have taken advantage of geothermal heat this way since the Paleolithic era. Approximately seventy countries made direct use of a total of 270 PJ of geothermal heating in 2004. As of 2007, 28 GW of geothermal heating capacity is installed around the world, satisfying 0.07% of global primary energy consumption. Thermal efficiency is high since no energy conversion is needed, but capacity factors tend to be low (around 20%) since the heat is mostly needed in the winter.
Geothermal Heating. During the winter, ClimateMaster geothermal heating and cooling systems absorb heat stored in the ground through the water that circulates in its underground loop. This heat is carried to the ground source heat pumps where it’s concentrated and then sent as warm, comfortable air throughout your home. During the summer, ClimateMaster geothermal heating and cooling systems absorb heat from your home and transfers it to the underground loop where it is then absorbed by the cooler earth. The geothermal heat pump uses the cool water returning from the ground to create cool, dehumidified air conditioning for your home.
Geothermal heat, sometimes called geothermal energy, is the heat energy contained within the Earth. Geothermal heat can be found from a few feet below the earth's crust all the way to its core, about 4,000 miles down. Geothermal heat is stored in solid and molten rock and in underground water.
Geothermal heat pumps (GHPs), sometimes referred to as GeoExchange, earth-coupled, ground-source, or water-source heat pumps, have been in use since the late 1940s. They use the constant temperature of the earth as the exchange medium instead of the outside air temperature. Most closed-loop geothermal heat pumps circulate an antifreeze solution through a closed loop -- usually made of plastic tubing -- that is buried in the ground or submerged in water. A heat exchanger transfers heat between the refrigerant in the heat pump and the antifreeze solution in the closed loop.
Geothermal energy is a renewable energy source because the heat is continuously produced inside the earth. The word geothermal comes from the Greek words geo (earth) and therme (heat). Geothermal heating units use the earths natural heat to warm and cool your home for sustainable, environmentally friendly comfort. In the winter: The geothermal heat pump extracts heat from the fluid in the earth connection and typically distributes warmed air through a system of air ducts. Cooler air from the building is returned to the heat pump and is re-warmed as it flows through the underground loop. In the summer: The process is reversed.