Dumped: Gary Dobson, one of the men who killed black teenager Stephen Lawrence in Eltham, south east London, in 1993. One of the men who killed black teenager Stephen Lawrence in a racist attack which changed Britain has been dumped by the mother of his children. When Stephen's parents Doreen and Neville Lawrence launched their own private prosecution in 1994, Dobson was among the three acquitted of murder at the Old Bailey. Also jailed: David Norris, another of the original five suspects, is serving 14 years behind bars for his part in Stephen's murder.
Storyline. Stephen Lawrence was a black London teenager attacked by white racists. His mother Doreen and father Neville fought to have the events properly investigated, culminating in a judicial enquiry into the events, and the inadequate investigation into the events by the Metropolitan Police, London's police force. Stephen Lawrence was a black London teenager attacked by white racists. His mother Doreen and father Neville fought to have the events properly investigated, culminating in a judicial ... See full summary ».
The report, titled The Stephen Lawrence Independent Review, was presented to Parliament on 6 March 2014. Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police said the report, which prompted an inquiry into undercover policing, was devastating. It was also performed at the Guildford School of Acting for the 20th anniversary of the murder. On 7 February 2008, the Stephen Lawrence Centre, designed by architect David Adjaye, opened in Deptford, south-east London. A week later, it was vandalised in an attack that was initially believed to be racially motivated.
A public inquiry has been launched following revelations that an undercover police officer spied on the family of murdered teenager Stephen Lawrence. Home Secretary Theresa May described the findings of a report by Mark Ellison QC as deeply troubling. September 1994 - Private prosecution launched. Stephen's parents, Doreen and Neville Lawrence, launch a private prosecution against Gary Dobson, Luke Knight and Neil Acourt. All three deny the charges. A private prosecution is the same as a standard criminal trial but not brought by the CPS.
22 April 1993 - Stephen Lawrence murdered. The eighteen-year-old is stabbed to death in an unprovoked attack by a gang of white youths as he waits at a bus stop in Eltham, south-east London, with his friend Duwayne Brooks. September 1994 - Private prosecution launched. Stephen's parents, Doreen and Neville Lawrence, launch a private prosecution against Gary Dobson, Luke Knight and Neil Acourt. All three deny the charges. A private prosecution is the same as a standard criminal trial but not brought by the CPS.
Stephen Lawrence (13 September 1974 – 22 April 1993) was a Black British man from Eltham, south east London, who was murdered in a racially motivated attack while waiting for a bus on the evening of 22 April 1993. It was also performed at the Guildford School of Acting for the 20th anniversary of the murder. On 7 February 2008, the Stephen Lawrence Centre, designed by architect David Adjaye, opened in Deptford, south-east London. A week later, it was vandalised in an attack that was initially believed to be racially motivated.
Stephen Lawrence has been a composer for Sesame Street since 1980. In addition to his work composing for film, theater and television, he composed the title song and others for Free To Be...You And Me, the landmark Gold Record, book, and Emmy-winning ABC television special. He composed the million-selling song You Take My Breath Away, which earned two Gold Records.
Stephen Lawrence is known for his work on The Skulls II (2002), National Lampoon's Senior Trip (1995) and Playmakers (2003). See full bio ». More at IMDbPro » Contact Info: View agent. 