DEFINITION of 'Offshore'. 1. Located or based outside of one's national boundaries. The term offshore is used to describe foreign banks, corporations, investments and deposits. A company may legitimately move offshore for the purpose of tax avoidance or to enjoy relaxed regulations. Offshore financial institutions can also be used for illicit purposes such as money laundering and tax evasion. 2
As terms the words 'offshore business' and 'offshore company' have no precise legal, tax or general business meaning, as the word 'offshore' often means nothing more than anywhere other than the place of physical location of the person using the word (i.e. overseas). The Mauritius GBCII Offshore Company pays zero tax and is effectively a tax haven company, similar in many respects to a BVI Company, whilst the Mauritius GBCI Company is tax resident and typically utilised for double tax treaty and international tax planning.
Offshore outsourcing is the practice of hiring an external organization to perform some business functions ( Outsourcing ) in a country other than the one where the products or services are actually developed or manufactured ( Offshore ). 
An offshore company is a company that is incorporated in a foreign nation. Typically, an offshore company does not conduct most of its business in a country where it is officially based. An example of an offshore company would be a corporation that is formally headquartered in Mexico, but carries out most of the operations in the United States. Most prominently, offshore company structures are established in order to benefit from loose government regulation and low taxation. For those very reasons, a domestic company may often move offshore to become an offshore company. An offshore company is also referred to as a non-resident company.
An offshore company or corporation is the same as any other company in that it is an entity recognised by law as a separate entity with limited liability. As such the company has the option to sell shares, the right to sue and be sued, and has perpetual existence. An IBC (International Business Company) is the most popular type of offshore corporation for asset protection and privacy purposes. An IBC is usually a tax-exempt corporation that can do business all over the world except in the country where it has been incorporated.
The term offshore company or offshore corporation is used in at least two distinct and different ways. Although all offshore companies differ to a degree depending upon the corporate law in the relevant jurisdiction, all offshore companies tend to enjoy certain core characteristics: 1  They are broadly not subject to taxation in their home jurisdiction. 2  The corporate regime will be designed to promote business flexibility.
An offshore company may be a reference to: 1  a corporation or (sometimes) other type of legal entity which is incorporated or registered in an offshore financial centre or  tax haven ; or. 2  a company or corporate group (or sometimes a division thereof) which engages in offshoring manufacturing or business services. Although all offshore companies differ to a degree depending upon the corporate law in the relevant jurisdiction, all offshore companies tend to enjoy certain core characteristics: 1  They are broadly not subject to taxation in their home jurisdiction. 2  The corporate regime will be designed to promote business flexibility.
There is no magic or mystery surrounding offshore companies. This may sound simplistic, but an offshore company is essentially the same as any other company. What really requires thought is management and administration, thus we strongly encourage our clients to consider the administration and management of an offshore company from the inception of their plans. A common misconception is that a company must be administered in its place of incorporation.
In relation to companies and similar entities which are incorporated in offshore jurisdictions, the use of both the words offshore and company can be varied in application. The extent to which a jurisdiction is regarded as offshore is often a question of perception and degree. Although all offshore companies differ to a degree depending upon the corporate law in the relevant jurisdiction, all offshore companies tend to enjoy certain core characteristics: 1  They are broadly not subject to taxation in their home jurisdiction. 2  The corporate regime will be designed to promote business flexibility.
Detailed information in relation to the use of offshore companies is notoriously difficult to come by because of the opaque nature of much of the business (and because, in many cases, the companies are used specifically to preserve the confidentiality of a transaction or individual). Although all offshore companies differ to a degree depending upon the corporate law in the relevant jurisdiction, all offshore companies tend to enjoy certain core characteristics: 1  They are broadly not subject to taxation in their home jurisdiction. 2  The corporate regime will be designed to promote business flexibility.