If you will be taking an examination to test for prescription drugs, you will need to be conscious of how long it will take for your body to clear signs of your Vicodin usage. Urine examinations can still detect Vicodin in the system after 72 hours. While the effects of Vicodin last around 4 hours, traces of the drug can remain in your system for up to 72 hours.
Hydrocodone is excreted in the urine and can be detected in urine drug tests. Hydrocodone is detectable in hair samples for several months after use. Acetaminophen’s half-life is 2-3 hours. Hydrocodone has a half-life of 3 to 4 hours; that’s how long it takes the body to eliminate half of the drug from the bloodstream. It takes several half-lives to eliminate all the hydrocodone.
Hydrocodone has a certain “detection window”, which is the amount of time after ingestion during which evidence can be detected by a drug test. Hydrocodone detection times are unknown for blood and sweat screens. However, hydrocodone can be present in the saliva 12 – 36 hours after last dose or 2 – 4 days in the urine. Hydrocodone is also present in the hair for up to 90 days after last dose. The detection window for hydrocodone in urine is about 2-4 days, depending on how your body metabolizes hydrocodone. You will be tested right around the detection window, so it can really go either way.
While there is not a fixed answer for how long Vicodin stays in your system, the chemicals in the tablets generally stay in the system for four hours. However, traces of the drug can remain in your body for an estimated 72 hours. The drug can even remain in some people's systems for five days or longer. 
Acetaminophen is not tested for in urine drug screens,  but hydrocodone is-it's part of the 'opioi … d' family of  pain-relievers.     Hydrocodone has a 1/2 life of 3.3-4.4 hours: this means it takes  that long for 1/2 of the drug in your blood to leave your body. One dose of 5mg vicodin (hydrocodone) will stay in your system 3 to 7 days depending on body weight, metabolism, and tolerance to the drug. 2 people found this useful. Edit.
In about 8 hours, hydrocodone reaches its maximum concentration in the urine, after which, the levels begin to significantly decrease. In this case, it only depends on the quantity that a person takes, so that a urine test will detect hydrocodone. In general, it is detectable for about 6 to 24 hours after ingestion. 1  Hair drug test.
Hydrocodone stays in your system for three to four days. If you are about to take a urine test, you should know that Hydrocodone will stay in your urine for that period of time. If your doctor has prescribed you this drug, you are probably well informed about its possible side effects. How long does Hydrocodone stay in your system for a urine test and what is Hydrocodone? Hydrocodone is a pain killer belonging to the group of active narcotics. It is used in treating pain
Hydrocodone begins to work within 10 to 20 minutes of swallowing the pill. Its pain-relieving effects last 4 to 8 hours. Hydrocodone has a half-life of 3 to 4 hours; that’s how long it takes the body to eliminate half of the drug from the bloodstream. It takes several half-lives to eliminate all the hydrocodone. A small fraction may still be present in the blood a day or so after taking one pill