· just now. Report Abuse. to measure a computer monitor for size is really simple. measure it from one corner to the other. measure from the top right corner to the bottom left corner. and only measure the screen which i mean the part where you get to see the image. the part that you see. example your desktop. 
I'd like a convenient way to measure the size of an image on a computer screen. My specific intentions are to measure the distance between two points I made on a photo copied electrophoresis gel pattern, where I added the dots via paint. I've tried the crude method of copying an image on a ruler from google, but when I transfer the image to paint, the size is enlarged dramatically; this makes it hard to measure a metric length, and the resolution of the image gets screwed up badly.
Screen Calipers. The Screen Calipers are the unique on-screen measurement tool, that let you measure anything on your computer screen with ultimate accuracy. For Windows and Apple Mac. Calipers Version 4.0 now available, with semi transparent skins, PDF measurement, and 360° rotation
On 2-D displays, such as computer monitors and TVs, the display size (or viewable image size or VIS) is the physical size of the area where pictures and videos are displayed. The size of a screen is usually described by the length of its diagonal, which is the distance between opposite corners. 
A simple On-screen Ruler for Mac that can be used for measurement in pixels, inches, picas and centimeters. The ruler can be scaled from 200 to 5000 pixels in length. Moreover, it can be customized for transparency to get the precise measurement of elements. Download – Free Ruler. 
5. Cancel. Measuring your screen size will help to make sure that you have wallpaper that takes full advantage of the resolution available. Measure your screen size for wallpaper with help from a computer professional in this free video clip. Part of the Video Series: Graphic Design. 1  How to Measure Your Screen Size for Wallpaper.
Computer monitor sizes are based on the diagonal measurement of the screen. For example, a new LCD monitor advertised as being 32” in size is most likely 32” from upper right to lower left corner rather than 32” across or 32” tall. Measure only the screen; do not count the frame around the screen. Measure the height of the screen from top to bottom. Measure the width of the screen from left to right.
Download NRuler. 5. On-Screen Ruler. On-Screen Ruler is another simple measuring tool that can display the measurements in inches, centimeters, pixels, pica’s or a percentage. It also has a transparency slider option and the font and colors can be configured to your liking. 
Measure the diagonal length of your screen from the top left corner to the bottom right corner. Measure only the screen; do not count the frame around the screen. Measure the height of the screen from top to bottom. Measure the width of the screen from left to right. Once you have all three measurement values, you will be able to confidently order your screen filter or place your monitor up for sale
A monitor's size is the distance (usually measured in inches) from corner to corner, diagonally across the screen. This applies to widescreen and normal/full screen monitors. However the manufacturer's specified size might be slightly more than the actual 'viewable size' for a couple of reasons: 1. 1 By doing so, you will truly see what is in the picture and not what is on your computer screen. 2  Sinc…. 3  How to Adjust the Monitor Screen Size The size of your monitor screen is referred to as your screen resolution. 4  Resolution determines the number of pixels being used on the screen, which controls how clear the im….