Internal derangement of the knee may involve injury to muscle, ligament, tendon, meniscus, or bone. Rehabilitation will depend on the nature of the underlying pathology, the extent of injury, type of treatment (i.e., surgical, nonsurgical), and the functional goals of the individual. Ligament tears are especially common. The knee has four major ligaments and each is vulnerable to injury: the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL), the medial collateral ligament (MCL) the posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) and the lateral collateral ligament (LCL).
Internal Derangement of the Joint. A general term describing a mechanical derangement of a joint structure (knee, elbow, shoulder). This is a term often used when the examiner doesn’t quite know the exact diagnoses but can determine something is functionally incorrect. 
, is a chronic disorder of the knee due to a torn, ruptured or deranged meniscus of the knee, or a partial or complete cruciate rupture, with or without injury to the capsular ligament of the knee, resulting in ongoing or intermittent signs and symptoms such as pain, instability, or abnormal mobility of that knee. Anatomy and Physiology. Internal derangement of the knee is a mechanical disorder of the knee which interferes with normal joint motion and/or mobility. A fragment of soft tissue or bone that suddenly becomes interposed between the articular surfaces is the classic cause of internal derangement.
Typical injuries treated for the knee are internal derangement, which is a torn medial meniscus; torn anterior cruciate ligament; patellofemoral arthritis; instability and chondromalacia; tendonitis and bursitis about the knee joint with torn ligaments; and tendons and tendonitis in the knee joint. Internal derangement of the knee (IDK) involves either a ligament or medial meniscal tear, which are two of the soft tissue structures that stabilize and cushion the knee joint (the other two are muscles and tendons).
Internal derangement of the knee refers to a variety of damaged structures that can be injured within the knee, including meniscal cartilage tears and loose bodies. Ligament tears often present with pain and instability during function. Also, any large swelling in the knee, and any effects of the posterior horn of the medial meniscus can cause a decrease in the sensitivity. Positive Findings: Valgus Test. Description: The valgus stress test checks for medial joint laxity, which usually represents an injury to the medial collateral ligament (MCL).
Derangement Syndrome. Basics. This is one of the most common conditions we treat in our clinic. A derangement is a joint that is not in its normal alignment. A good example is a torn meniscus in the knee. This can cause the knee joint to lock and not be able to straighten out and causes pain. When a joint is not in its proper position it will cause a loss of motion, pain, and likely weakness. Consider this example: a joint is when two or more bones come together and move to create motion such as the knee, shoulder, and hip.
The most common disease affecting the knee is osteoarthritis. The cartilage in the knee gradually wears away, causing pain and swelling. Injuries to ligaments and tendons also cause knee problems. A common injury is to the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL). Your knee joint is made up of bone, cartilage, ligaments and fluid. Muscles and tendons help the knee joint move. When any of these structures is hurt or diseased, you have knee problems. Knee problems can cause pain and difficulty walking.
717.9 - Unspecified internal derangement of knee The above description is abbreviated. This code description may also have Includes, Excludes, Notes, Guidelines, Examples and other information.Click here to Sign In to your account.Click here to View Pricing now. The above description is abbreviated. 
Internal derangement is an old term that describes internal damage to the joint generally caused by trauma. It is a nonspecific term that usually must be further refined by history, physical exam, x-rays, and frequently MRI studies. The knee joint is the largest of weight bearing joint in the body. Ligament tears are especially common. The knee has four major ligaments and each is vulnerable to injury: the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL), the medial collateral ligament (MCL) the posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) and the lateral collateral ligament (LCL).