The Netherlands (/ˈnɛðərləndz/ ; Dutch: Nederland [ˈneːdərˌlɑnt]. ) is the main  constituent country  (Dutch: land) of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. It is a small, densely populated country located in Western Europe with three island territories in the Caribbean. The European part of the Netherlands borders Germany to the east, Belgium to the south, and the North Sea to the northwest, sharing maritime borders with Belgium, the United Kingdom and Germany. 
Satellite view is showing Amsterdam, largest city and the national capital of the Netherlands. The city is located in the south of the province Noord (North) Holland at the mouth of the Amstel River. Amsterdam is the capital of the Netherlands but seat of the Dutch government is the city of Den Haag (The Hague). In 2014 Amsterdam had a city population of about 814,000 inhabitants, approximately 2.3 million live in its Metropolitan region. Official language is Dutch, English is widley spoken. Located in Rotterdam is the major port of the Netherlands. The Map shows a city map of Amsterdam with expressways, main roads and streets, zoom out to find Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, located about 9 km (5.6 mi) southwest of the city center.
1 Travel Sites in Europe: Amsterdam, Netherlands The Kingdom of the Netherlands is a small northern European nation with a large tourism industry. 2  Millions travel there every year. 
The Waterland and Zaan Region [1] [2] is located in the province of North-Holland in the West of the Netherlands, just to the north of Amsterdam. It offers every stereotype one would expect from the country: flat pasture land with dikes, canals, windmills, green-painted houses, wooden shoes and cheese. 
Distinctive Human Characteristics in the Netherlands. One distinctive human characteristic in the Netherlands is Amsterdam, the capital of the Netherlands. Amsterdam is a major city in the Netherlands, and every year there a lot of tourism in Amsterdam. Another distinctive human characterisic in the Netherlands is the Franeker Planetarium. 
Its status as the Dutch capital is mandated by the Constitution of the Netherlands though it is not the seat of the Dutch government, which is The Hague. Amsterdam has a population of 825,080 within the city proper, 1,317,663 in the urban area and 1,590,520 in the metropolitan area. As the commercial capital of the Netherlands and one of the top financial centres in Europe, Amsterdam is considered an alpha world city by the Globalization and World Cities (GaWC) study group. The city is also the cultural capital of the Netherlands.
In fact, only the central part of the Netherlands is geographically named Holland. This part of the country consists now of two provinces Noord Holland (North Holland) and Zuid-Holland (South Holland). This is the region with important cities as Amsterdam, Rotterdam, The Hague (Den Haag), Delft, Leiden and Haarlem. The Netherlands is located in North Western Europe, at the West and North-West coastline the North Sea; the country borders with Belgium from the South and Germany from the East and Northeast
Amsterdam is located in the western Netherlands, in the province of North Holland. The river Amstel terminates in the city centre and connects to a large number of canals that eventually terminate in the IJ. Amsterdam is situated 2 metres below sea level. The surrounding land is flat as it is formed of large polders. As the commercial capital of the Netherlands and one of the top financial centres in Europe, Amsterdam is considered an alpha world city by the Globalization and World Cities (GaWC) study group. The city is also the cultural capital of the Netherlands.
The Netherlands, officially called the Kingdom of the Netherlands, is located in northwest Europe. The Netherlands borders the North Sea to the its north and west, Belgium to the south and Germany to the east. The capital and largest city in the Netherlands is Amsterdam, while the seat of government and therefore most government activity is in the Hague. In its entirety, the Netherlands is often called Holland, while its people are referred to as Dutch.