In current usage, all definitions of the Fertile Crescent include Mesopotamia, the land in and around the Tigris and Euphrates rivers; and the Levant, the eastern coast of the Mediterranean sea. The term Fertile Crescent was popularized by University of Chicago archaeologist James Henry Breasted, beginning with his high school textbooks Outlines of European History in 1914 and Ancient Times, A History of the Early World in 1916.
The main rivers in the Fertile Crescent are  the Euphrates River, the Tigris River, and the Jordan River. The Fertile Crescent included the arable river valleys that ran from Africa to the Persian Gulf in Western Asia. The Fertile Crescent begins in what is now southern Iraq where the Tigris and Euphrates rivers empty into the Persian Gulf. It extends north along with the rivers, turns … westward in what was ancient Assyria, and then turns back south in what is modern Syria.
The main rivers in the Fertile Crescent are  the Euphrates River, the Tigris River, and the Jordan River. The Fertile Crescent included the arable river valleys that ran from Africa to the Persian Gulf in Western Asia. The fertile crescent is a nickname for Mesopotamia and the Jordan  River valley. Fertile means wet and crescent is a little thinner  than half moon.There is another nickname … for Mesopotamia: the land  between the rivers. This a true statement too because there are two  rivers surrounding it.
Confidence votes 31. ASIA-It was located between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers. The Euphrates passed through ancient Babylon which is quite close to modern day Baghdad in Iraq. It was located in an ancient area called Mesopotamia which translates as land between the two rivers. The fertile crescent is a nickname for Mesopotamia and the Jordan  River valley. Fertile means wet and crescent is a little thinner  than half moon.There is another nickname … for Mesopotamia: the land  between the rivers. This a true statement too because there are two  rivers surrounding it.
At the eastern Asian end of the fertile crescent, Sumer was located in what is now southern Iraq, between the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers -- Mesopotamia. 
by Joshua J. Mark. The Fertile Crescent is the region in the Middle East which curves, like a quarter-moon shape, from the Persian Gulf, through modern-day southern Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, Jordan, Israel and northern Egypt. 
The Fertile Crescent (also known as the Cradle of Civilization) is a crescent-shaped region containing the comparatively moist and fertile land of otherwise arid and semi-arid Western Asia, the Nile Valley and Nile Delta of northeast Africa. The term Fertile Crescent was popularized by University of Chicago archaeologist James Henry Breasted, beginning with his high school textbooks Outlines of European History in 1914 and Ancient Times, A History of the Early World in 1916.
The Fertile Crescent includes the modern day countries of Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, Jordan, Palestine, and others. Ancient Mesopotamia was located in what is now southern Iraq. It was between two rivers, the Tigris and Euphrates. In fact, the word Mesopotamia is Greek meaning the land between the rivers. Ancient Mesopotamia is included in a part of the world that was called the fertile crescent. Civilizations arose here because it was easy to grow food here. With the relative ease of food production, people settled down in place, population grew, and towns and cities were built.
The Fertile Crescent can be found in modern day Iraq in the river-valley of the Euphrates and Tigris Rivers. It is called this because of the shape of the river-valley a … long with the fact that the rivers overflow each year and bring nutrient rich soil to the shores. 3 people found this useful. The Fertile Crescent begins in what is now southern Iraq where the Tigris and Euphrates rivers empty into the Persian Gulf. It extends north along with the rivers, turns … westward in what was ancient Assyria, and then turns back south in what is modern Syria.
But the Fertile Crescent refers to areas of fertile soil near important rivers in the area. It stretches from the Nile River in Egypt to the Tigris and Euphrates rivers in modern Iraq. It also encompasses several other countries, including Israel, Lebanon, Jordan and Syria. In addition to the important rivers and marshlands in the Fertile Crescent, the area was also important because of its physical location as an area that bridged the three continents of Africa, Europe and Asia.