The length of time that doctor's offices need to keep records varies by state. 5 years is a common requirement. Explanations of benefits (EOB's) are sent by the insurance companies to the patient, not to the doctor's office. 4/11/13- Actually, insurance companies send EOB's to both entities, patient and doctors.
When you do discard your health insurance explanation of benefit documents, or any document with your identifying information, do so in such a way that potential identity thieves cannot use the sensitive information that is often found on health insurance documents.
Because they are not the same as the health insurance policy itself, there is no need for cluttering valuable fireproof space with EOB records. As a rule, keep important records, such as tax returns, insurance policies, care titles and property ownership records in a safe or other fireproof container.
Health insurance explanation of benefit documents, or EOBs, account for a large portion of your health insurance file, and knowing when it's best to put these in the trash can help reduce your insurance file significantly. Other People Are Reading.
It’s helpful to start with what medical EOBs prove: 1  The services the doctor, hospital, or other healthcare entity has provided. 2  The amount the doctor, hospital, or other healthcare provider has billed for those services. 3  The amount the medical insurance company and/or Medicare have paid.
What to do with it all and how long to keep these records will vary with your personal situation. Here are two sets of guidelines for medical EOB retention periods and good practices – one for people in normal health and one for people with chronic, debilitating or terminal health conditions: Normal Health. 1.
Compare that amount with the amount of the insurance company’s payment to the provider. Retain records for a minimum of six years as a method of proof to the IRS the amount of the health care deduction claimed, if there is one. It is best to keep health insurance EOB records for at least one year before destruction. However, if records need to prove income tax deductions, then they should be kept for at least six years.
1. Keep medical EOBs in a file for one year. As the bills and EOBs for a medical service come in, match related items together, and address any discrepancies you detect. Examples might include double billing or your health insurance company overlooking the fact that you have met your deductible.