The origin of the name of the element oxygen is Greek. It come from  two Greek word meaning acid and maker because it was thought,  incorrectly as it turned out, that al … l acids contained oxygen. Answered. In Oxygen Sensors. From wikipedia: Its name derives from the Greek roots ὀξύς (oxys) (acid, literally sharp, referring to the sour taste of acids) and -γενής (-genēs) (pro … ducer, literally begetter), because at the time of naming, it was mistakenly thought that all acids required oxygen in their composition.
The name origin of oxygen is the Greek words oxus (acid) and gennan (generate.). From wikipedia: Its name derives from the Greek roots ὀξύς (oxys) (acid, literally sharp, referring to the sour taste of acids) and -γενής (-genēs) (pro … ducer, literally begetter), because at the time of naming, it was mistakenly thought that all acids required oxygen in their composition.
Transcript of Name of the element, including an explanation for the origin. Oxygen-From the Greek words oxus (acid) and gennan (generate). Name of the element, including an explanation for the origin of its name if that origin is known. OXGEN. 6. Oxygen is in group 16, period 2 and in the series of nonmetals. Selenium, sulfur, tellurium, & polonium all have similar properties
By mass, oxygen is the third-most abundant element in the universe, after hydrogen and helium. At standardized conditions for temperature and pressure, two atoms of the element bind to form dioxygen, a diatomic gas that is colorless, odorless, and tasteless, with the formula O 2. Oxygen constitutes 49.2% of the Earth's crust by mass and is the major component of the world's oceans (88.8% by mass). Oxygen gas is the second most common component of the Earth's atmosphere, taking up 20.8% of its volume and 23.1% of its mass (some 10 15 tonnes).
Oxygen was named in 1777 by Antoine Lavoisier. He first used the term oxygene oxygéne to refer to a newly discovered element that could be used to make. Acids the word came … fro m The greek root-, oxy meaning sharp or, pungent-and, gen meaning that which.. Creates so oxygen means a substance that creates. acids Therefore the literal meaning of the word is 'that which makes acid', and this was because when oxygen was first isolated in air, its role or importance was not known and it was treated as any other new element.
The origin of the name of the element oxygen is Greek. It come from  two Greek word meaning acid and maker because it was thought,  incorrectly as it turned out, that al … l acids contained oxygen. Therefore the literal meaning of the word is 'that which makes acid', and this was because when oxygen was first isolated in air, its role or importance was not known and it was treated as any other new element.
Oxygen is a chemical element with symbol O and atomic number 8. It is a member of the chalcogen group on the periodic table and is a highly reactive nonmetallic element and oxidizing agent that readily forms compounds (notably oxides) with most elements. Photosynthesis releases oxygen, and respiration consumes oxygen. Oxygen constitutes 49.2% of the Earth's crust by mass and is the major component of the world's oceans (88.8% by mass). Oxygen gas is the second most common component of the Earth's atmosphere, taking up 20.8% of its volume and 23.1% of its mass (some 10 15 tonnes).
The word oxygen is Greek in origin, composed of 'oxy-': sharp, acid … (as in oxymoron, which literally means 'sharp-dull'), and '-gen': something that produces (as in pyrogen: that which makes fire, pathogen: that which makes disease, hydrogen: that which makes water). From wikipedia: Its name derives from the Greek roots ὀξύς (oxys) (acid, literally sharp, referring to the sour taste of acids) and -γενής (-genēs) (pro … ducer, literally begetter), because at the time of naming, it was mistakenly thought that all acids required oxygen in their composition.
However, it did give oxygen its name. The first part of the word, oxy- , came from Greek oxys, meaning “ acid ” or “ sharp. ” The second part, -gen, came from a Greek element meaning “ producing ” or “ giving rise to.