1 Testicular pain refers to pain or discomfort that is felt in one or both testicles or balls.. 2  The primary role of the testicle is to produce sperm and the hormone testosterone. 3  There are numerous conditions that can cause testicular pain, and a few of them constitute medical emergencies. 1 Share Your Story. 2  Testicular pain refers to pain or discomfort that is felt in one or both testicles or balls.. 3  The primary role of the testicle is to produce sperm and the hormone testosterone. 4
Associated symptoms. Testicular cancer can also cause other symptoms, including: 1  a dull ache or sharp pain in your testicles or scrotum, which may come and go. 2  a feeling of heaviness in your scrotum. 3  a sudden collection of fluid in your scrotum (hydrocele). 4  fatigue. 5  a general feeling of being unwell. Symptoms of testicular cancer. The most common symptom of testicular cancer is a lump or swelling in one of your testicles. The lump or swelling can be about the size of a pea, but may be larger. Most testicular lumps or swellings are not a sign of cancer.
Another cause of non-testicular scrotal pain is an inguinal hernia, which is when part of the intestine protrudes down through the abdominal wall into the scrotum. A varicocele, or abnormally dilated vein in the scrotum, can cause a similar type of dull ache. A dull ache originating from the testicle itself could be due to a benign mass such as a cyst, or more rarely, due to a more serious condition such as testicular cancer. Often, when men present with pain in the scrotum, the pain is not actually originating from the testicles, but rather from the surrounding structures. One such cause is epididymitis; this is inflammation of the epididymis, a coiled group of tubules sitting on top of the testicles.
The testicular pain is constant and a dull pain that can get worse if I exercise ,play tennis,golf etc.I don't know if the testicular pain is coming from my back herniated disc or from the hernia. The back pain has been mostly constant for about 3 weeks. After the back pain started, I noticed that I have had some discomfort and pain in my testicle (left side), which has lasted for a couple weeks on and off. My doctor gave me 800mg ibuprofen and a muscle relaxer to take before I go to sleep.
Symptoms of late-stage testicular cancer may include: 1  Dull pain in the lower back and belly. 2  Lack of energy, sweating for no clear reason, fever, or a general feeling of illness. 3  Shortness of breath, coughing, or chest pain. 4  Headache or confusion. 1 A swelling and/or lump in one or both of the testes. 2  You may or may not have pain in the testes or scrotum. 3  A heavy feeling in the scrotum. 4  A dull pain or feeling of pressure in the lower belly or groin.
Read More. Hi Testicular pain has many causes such as trauma, infection of the epydidymis or epididymitis, torsion of a testes, hernia, orchitis or infection and inflammation of the testicle, or testicular tumor. Pain in the testis, groin and back may be referred pain from the prostate or the bladder. The back pain has been mostly constant for about 3 weeks. After the back pain started, I noticed that I have had some discomfort and pain in my testicle (left side), which has lasted for a couple weeks on and off. My doctor gave me 800mg ibuprofen and a muscle relaxer to take before I go to sleep.
Common symptoms of testicular cancer include: 1  A swelling and/or lump in one or both of the testes. 2  You may or may not have pain in the testes or scrotum. 3  A heavy feeling in the scrotum. 4  A dull pain or feeling of pressure in the lower belly or groin. 1 A swelling and/or lump in one or both of the testes. 2  You may or may not have pain in the testes or scrotum. 3  A heavy feeling in the scrotum. 4  A dull pain or feeling of pressure in the lower belly or groin.
OVERVIEW. Testicular cancer or cancer of the testis occurs when cancer cells form in one or both testicles. These cells begin to change and grow uncontrollably, forming a mass or tumor. The cells can also invade the blood stream and lymph system and spread, leading to tumors in other areas of the body called metastases. 