Other symptoms of pregnancy. Sometimes symptoms of pregnancy are less familiar or obvious. If you're pregnant, you might experience: 1  Slight bleeding. 2  Sometimes a small amount of spotting or vaginal bleeding is one of the first signs of pregnancy. 
One of the first signs is often achy, tender breasts. They may feel fuller and heavier. You might even notice the area around your nipple getting bigger and darker. Most early pregnancy symptoms, including tender breasts, are related to rising levels of the hormone progesterone, says Treesa McLean, a licensed midwife.
Nausea. Most pregnant women start to get the queasies when they're about 6 weeks along, but some can experience morning sickness (which unfortunately can occur morning, noon and night) earlier. It will most likely subside as you enter the second trimester. 
Pregnancy symptoms differ from woman to woman and pregnancy to pregnancy. One of the most common symptoms is a delayed or missed period. You may see signs of pregnancy within a week of conception. It is also possible for symptoms to start a few weeks later. In addition to a missed period, the earliest symptoms of pregnancy might include: 1  Nausea with or without vomiting. 2  Tender, swollen breasts. 3  Increased urination. 4  Fatigue.
1 Other possible symptoms of early pregnancy include mood changes, increased urination, headaches, low backache, breast tenderness, darkened areolas, fatigue, nausea, and implantation bleeding. 2  Symptoms of late pregnancy can include leg swelling, backache, heartburn, leakage of urine, and shortness of breath. 1 Certain symptoms, like absence of menstruation and weight gain, are common to all pregnancies. 2 
Classic symptoms of pregnancy. In addition to a missed period, the earliest signs and symptoms of pregnancy might include: 1  Tender, swollen breasts. 2  Early in pregnancy hormonal changes might make your breasts tender, sensitive or sore. 3  Or your breasts might feel fuller and heavier. 4  Nausea with or without vomiting. 1 Tender, swollen breasts. 2  Early in pregnancy hormonal changes might make your breasts tender, sensitive or sore. 3  Or your breasts might feel fuller and heavier. 4  Nausea with or without vomiting. 5  Morning sickness, which can strike at any time of the day or night, sometimes begins as early as three weeks after conception.
Pregnancy symptoms differ from woman to woman and pregnancy to pregnancy; however, one of the most significant pregnancy symptoms is a delayed or missed period. Understanding the signs of pregnancy is important because each symptom may have causes other than pregnancy. You may experience pregnancy signs within a week of conception. However, some women report that they did not experience any symptom for a few weeks. If you need free testing, you can search below or order affordable early detection pregnancy tests online. Headaches: The sudden rise of hormones in your body can cause you to have headaches early in pregnancy. Frequent Urination: Around 6-8 weeks after conception, you may find yourself making a few extra trips to the bathroom.
Photo: iStockphoto 1. Swollen and tender breasts Soreness or tingling in breasts is one of pregnancy’s most common symptoms. Early in pregnancy breasts will fill out and change shape as they prepare to produce milk. Breasts may become very tender and sensitive for a few months as a result. 
If you think you could be pregnant, watch for these early signs and symptoms 1: missed period, headaches, tender breasts, nausea, and lower backaches. Unfortunately, these symptoms are not unique to pregnancy, and you could be pregnant without experiencing any of them. In addition to a missed period, the earliest symptoms of pregnancy might include: 1  Nausea with or without vomiting. 2  Tender, swollen breasts. 3  Increased urination. 4  Fatigue.
Are there other clues that you're pregnant? Some women notice changes in their energy level, mood, or breasts -- a lot like having PMS. Other signs might take you by surprise, like fainting, a shift in your sense of smell, or more bathroom visits. Your changing hormones kick into gear, even before you take that pregnancy test. You might even notice the area around your nipple getting bigger and darker. Most early pregnancy symptoms, including tender breasts, are related to rising levels of the hormone progesterone, says Treesa McLean, a licensed midwife.