When we took my 2 year old cat to the vet she told us he had radial nerve damage in his front right leg. His paw was limp and he was unable to put any pressure on it. We expected his leg to be amputated but as he had some feeling in it the vet suggested the possibility of cage rest for 5-6 weeks. We still don't... 
You should tell your doctor about your symptoms and injury. Your doctor will test each of your nerves individually to determine the level of your nerve injury and if a nerve is partially or completely separated. Your doctor will test the sensation, strength, and range of motion in your hand. A Tinel’s test helps locate the place where your nerve is injured.
Other muscles in the forearm also innervated by the radial nerve are supinator, extensor pollicis brevis, extensor pollicis longus, and abductor pollicis longus. Note that all these muscles are situated in the posterior half of the forearm (posterior when in the anatomical position). Also, brachioradialis, anconeus, triceps brachii, and extensor carpi radialis longus are all innervated by muscular branches of the radial nerve in the arm. The workup for wrist drop frequently includes nerve conduction velocity studies to isolate and confirm the radial nerve as the source of the problem. Plain films can help identify bone spurs and fractures that may have injured the nerve.
Shoulder impingement syndrome is a condition where your shoulders rotator cuff tendons are intermittently trapped and compressed during shoulder movements This causes injury to the shoulder tendons and bursa resulting in painful shoulder movements. 
1 As the nerve often passes down in the spiral groove of the humerus, it may be injured with a fracture of the shaft of the humerus. 2  At the elbow: 3  The radial nerve may be entrapped at the elbow at a number of sites but the most common is the proximal border of the tendon of supinator called the arcade of Frohse. 1 At the elbow: 2  The radial nerve may be entrapped at the elbow at a number of sites but the most common is the proximal border of the tendon of supinator called the arcade of Frohse. 3  Check for tenderness over the radial tunnel.
Axillary nerve palsy is a neurological condition in which the axillary (also called circumflex) nerve has been damaged by shoulder dislocation. It can cause weak deltoid and sensory loss below the shoulder. 
In conclusion, nerve injuries are common associatedinjuries in anterior shoulder dislocations. The messagethat it is mandatory to examine and document anynerve injuries in shoulder dislocations both before andafter reduction must be reiterated to all cliniciansinvolved in the management of these acute injuries. If after r eviewing thecase records there was any doubt regarding thepresence of an injury, an attempt was made to verifythis by inviting the patient to attend for a follow-upclinic for a physical examination even if the patient hadbeen discharged from follow-up.
1 Is due to compression of the lower part of the brachial plexus. 2  As this is really a brachial plexus injury, the median and ulnar nerves may also be involved. 3  It may also be compressed by the use of shoulder crutches. 4  Nerve function usually fully recovers within a few weeks. 1 At the elbow: 2  The radial nerve may be entrapped at the elbow at a number of sites but the most common is the proximal border of the tendon of supinator called the arcade of Frohse. 3  Check for tenderness over the radial tunnel.
Wrist drop, also known as radial nerve palsy, is a condition where a person cannot extend their wrist and it hangs flaccidly. To demonstrate wrist drop, hold your arm out in front of you with your forearm parallel to the floor. The workup for wrist drop frequently includes nerve conduction velocity studies to isolate and confirm the radial nerve as the source of the problem. Plain films can help identify bone spurs and fractures that may have injured the nerve.
The radial nerve can be damaged if the humerus (the bone of the arm) is broken, because it runs through the radial groove on the lateral border of this bone along with the deep brachial artery. Wrist drop is also associated with lead poisoning because of the effect of lead on the radial nerve. The workup for wrist drop frequently includes nerve conduction velocity studies to isolate and confirm the radial nerve as the source of the problem. Plain films can help identify bone spurs and fractures that may have injured the nerve.