Red (bloodshot) eyes and Yellow eyes. WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms red (bloodshot) eyes and yellow eyes including Indoor allergens, Allergic reaction, and Sleep deprivation. There are 28 conditions associated with red (bloodshot) eyes and yellow eyes. The links below will provide you with more detailed information on these medical conditions from the WebMD Symptom Checker and help provide a better understanding of causes and treatment of these related conditions. 1  Indoor allergens.
Certain conditions can cause the eyes and even the skin to appear yellow. Yellowing of the eyes is typically a result of dysfunction of the liver, gallbladder, or pancreas. In some instances yellow eyes can involve multiple organs. Yellowing eyes are a symptom of a condition called jaundice. Jaundice occurs when the oxygen-carrying components (hemoglobin) in the blood are broken down into bilirubin and the bilirubin is not cleared normally. Conditions that affect the liver’s functioning can lead to yellow eyes. Liver scarring (cirrhosis) commonly causes this to occur. Conditions that can cause cirrhosis include: 1  alcohol abuse.
1 Yellow eyes. 2  Diseases of the liver, including hepatitis and cirrhosis, can turn the scleras yellow. 3  The color is caused by the buildup of bilirubin, a compound created by the breakdown of hemoglobin, the oxygen-carrying molecule inside red blood cells. 
Yellow eyes in children and adults. In children and adults, yellow eyes, as well as jaundice of the skin, occur when bilirubin builds up because of serious diseases and conditions that cause liver damage or dysfunction, or block the bile ducts. The bile ducts transport bile to the digestive tract to be mixed with feces. Certain blood disorders, such as hemolytic anemia, can also cause yellow eyes because of the abnormal destruction of red blood cells and increase in bilirubin production. Yellow eyes and jaundice in children and adults are treated by diagnosing and treating the underlying cause.
Red eyes could be a sign of an ulcer or infection in the cornea, the dome-like lens of the eye.Common Causes for Yellow EyesIf your eyes are a yellow color, you could have jaundice. Jaundice produces yellow-colored skin, membranes and eyes. Jaundice is also a symptom of other disorders such as liver damage. 
Fatigue, Yellow eyes and Yellow skin. WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms fatigue, yellow eyes and yellow skin including Mononucleosis, Hepatitis A, and Hepatitis B. There are 84 conditions associated with fatigue, yellow eyes and y
Jaundice is the term for the yellowing of the eyes and often the skin as well. It also is termed icterus and is caused by excess systemic bilirubin. This is not an actual disorder but a sign of a problem usually with the liver or red blood cells. The yellowing of the eyes is typically a sign of a very serious disorder. This symptom should not be ignored and medical attention should be sought immediately. The two largest causes of yellow eyes are liver dysfunction or issues with the breakdown of the red blood cells.
Yellow eyes occur when the whites of the eyes (sclerae) take on a yellowish tinge. Also known as scleral icterus, yellow eyes are generally a sign of jaundice caused by a buildup of bilirubin in the blood. Bilirubin is a yellow-colored pigment that is produced by the breakdown of old red blood cells. Certain blood disorders, such as hemolytic anemia, can also cause yellow eyes because of the abnormal destruction of red blood cells and increase in bilirubin production. Yellow eyes and jaundice in children and adults are treated by diagnosing and treating the underlying cause.
Jaundice is the medical term that describes yellowing of the skin and eyes. This condition forms when there is too much bilirubin in your system. Bilirubin is a yellow pigment that is formed by the breakdown of dead red blood cells in the liver. If you only have yellow skin, it’s more likely due to having too much beta-carotene in your system. Beta-carotene is an antioxidant found in carrots and pumpkins. An excess of this antioxidant is not a cause of jaundice.