Diamond is a 60th Anniversary gemstone and a precious gemsone. Chakras-Crown Chakra. Birthstone-April. Zodiac-Aries, Taurus, Leo. Planet-Venus. Typical colours-clear white, yellow, blue, pink, black. A symbol of purity, the Diamond’s pure white light helps to bring our lives into a cohesive whole. It brings love and clarity into partnerships, bonding relationships. Diamond is a sign of commitment and fidelity, and instills trust to relationships and situations
Diamond is a stone that is used to bring energies of longevity, balance, clarity, intensity, success, and abundance. It also brings eternity, purity, and high frequency energy. It also is a stone of amplification, including thoughts, strengths, and weaknesses. t gives one who wears or carries it courage and hope. And indeed, it is a symbol of invincibility, due to it being the hardest stone. enhance strength in emotional, spiritual, and physical realms. Diamond is said to be a cosmic dragon's remains that tap into Divine Energy.
Element Fire. Diamond is a stone of exceptional power and miraculous abilities. It is a king of gems, the strongest precious stone. Ancient Greeks named it adamas, meaning invincible, indestructible. Diamond is usually colorless or exhibiting pale hues of yellow, brown, blue, grey, pink, green colors. Brightly colored Diamonds are unique; invariably they attract a lot of admiration, acquire individual names and detailed description
Diamonds can occur in nearly any color, though yellow and brown are by far the most common. The Yellow diamond is a member of the Carbon family and is the hardest substance known. The word Diamond is derived from the Greek word adamas which means hardest metal reflecting the property of the stone. Diamonds with a detectable hue, other than yellow or brown are known as colored diamonds. If the colour is strong enough, a stone may be referred to as a fancy colored diamond by the trade.
Report Abuse. Lovetoknow.com says Of course, all diamonds are symbolic of love, commitment, and timelessness, but adding yellow to the stone gives it even deeper meaning. Best Answer: still means the same as all other diamonds (love, contentment, and timelessness.) The yellow is kind of a symbol of cheerfulness, joy, and prosperity. Hope this helps. Source(s): http://engagementrings.lovetoknow.com/wi...
The Diamond, in its rarity and beauty, is a symbol of purity and innocence, of love and fidelity, and embraces strength of character, ethics, and faithfulness to oneself and others. It is indicative of the loving and open nature with which one came into the physical realm, and encourages the aspect of truth and trust. Diamond is considered a master healer for its ability to unify the mind and body. It is best used as a support stone, amplifying the powers of other minerals when working on specific issues, especially where congestion of energy has caused a physical imbalance.
Symbolism & Meaning of Yellow Diamonds The traditional properties closely associated with diamonds are action, passion, and energy. Jewelry containing diamonds are believed to enhance relationships, increasing inner strength and provide the wearer with balance, clarity and abundance. The word Diamond is derived from the Greek word adamas which means hardest metal reflecting the property of the stone. Diamonds with a detectable hue, other than yellow or brown are known as colored diamonds. If the colour is strong enough, a stone may be referred to as a fancy colored diamond by the trade.
It is believed that wearing jewelry containing a diamond will focus the energies of the precious gemstone through the gem. The symbolic meaning of the color yellow was renewal and hope, however, the color was also associated with envy, greed and treachery. The word Diamond is derived from the Greek word adamas which means hardest metal reflecting the property of the stone. Diamonds with a detectable hue, other than yellow or brown are known as colored diamonds. If the colour is strong enough, a stone may be referred to as a fancy colored diamond by the trade.
Yellow sapphire is particularly good for those desirous to be blessed with children, or those interested in nobler aspects of life and in the occult, charity, spiritual motivation, yoga, meditation, and religious preaching. 