The ribs protect the heart and lungs and other vital organs of the body. The spine (backbone) The spine is not really one bone it is lots of little bones that work together to protect the spinal cord. The spinal cord runs from the brain to the base of your spine. The way the bones of the skull protect the internal organs is by protecting the master control organ of the entire body....the brain. The brain and spinal cord (extension of t … he brain) constitute the central nervous system.
Ribs. The ribs partially enclose and protect the chest cavity, where many vital organs (including the heart and the lungs) are located. The rib cage is collectively made up of long, curved individual bones with joint-connections to the spinal vertebrae. 
The heart is a muscular organ in humans and other animals, which pumps blood through the blood vessels of the circulatory system. Blood provides the body with oxygen and nutrients, and also assists in the removal of metabolic wastes. The heart is located in the middle compartment of the mediastinum in the chest. The heart functions as a pump in the circulatory system to provide a continuous circulation of blood throughout the body. This circulation consists of the systemic circulation to and from the body and the pulmonary circulation to and from the lungs.
Pericardium: Fire-energy yin organ. Known as the 'King's Bodyguard', the pericardium is the heart's protective sack. Although it is not recognized as an organ in Western physiology, it is regarded in Chinese medicine as a Fire-energy organ whose special function is to protect the heart.
Three sets of bones protect the internal organs: The skull protects the brain, and the ribs protect the heart and lungs. The rib cage protects the organs in the chest. The skull protects the brain. 1  The skull protects the brain. 2  The rib cage, anchored by the sternum and vertebral column, protects the heart, lungs, kidneys, liver, and spleen. 3  The pelvis protects the urinary and reproductive organs, as well as the lower part of the intestines. The way the bones of the skull protect the internal organs is by protecting the master control organ of the entire body....the brain. The brain and spinal cord (extension of t … he brain) constitute the central nervous system.
1 The rib cage, anchored by the sternum and vertebral column, protects the heart, lungs, kidneys, liver, and spleen. 2  The pelvis protects the urinary and reproductive organs, as well as the lower part of the intestines. The way the bones of the skull protect the internal organs is by protecting the master control organ of the entire body....the brain. The brain and spinal cord (extension of t … he brain) constitute the central nervous system.
Three sets of bones protect the internal organs:   The skull protects the brain  The rib cage, anchored by the sternum and vertebral column,  protects the heart, lungs, k … idneys, liver, and spleen. The way the bones of the skull protect the internal organs is by protecting the master control organ of the entire body....the brain. The brain and spinal cord (extension of t … he brain) constitute the central nervous system.
The ribcage protects the heart, lungs, the diaphragm, the liver, spleen, pancreas, and gallbladder, and to a lesser extent the kidneys. Pelvis. The pelvic bone gives structure and with the spine and hip bones protects the ureters leading from the kidneys to the bladder and protects the bladder also. The way the bones of the skull protect the internal organs is by protecting the master control organ of the entire body....the brain. The brain and spinal cord (extension of t … he brain) constitute the central nervous system.