Partly responsible for the interest in belly dancing is Shakira, the Colombian singer-songwriter and dancer. She has been a major figure in the pop music scene of Latin America since the mid-1990s. She often performs barefoot. Shakira says she learned this form of dance as a young teen to overcome her shyness. Below is a fun belly dancing tutorial video from YouTube, which also helps to explain some of the aspects of belly dancing, as well as explaining some of the techniques and movements.
So right now, I'm going to show you how to dance like Shakira. The most famous action that she has is going on with all of this area right In here. It's her hip action. So, what you need to do is stand to the side. Check out the official app http://apple.co/1JSDyRv. Watch more How to Dance at a Club videos: http://www.howcast.com/videos/487718-... Learn how to dance like Shakira in this Howcast club dancing video with expert Tweetie.
My hips don't lie, but DJ, I'm going to need you to drop the beat, so we can all do it. So, not exactly the tempo or the type of music that you would use at home. I know Shakira uses a lot of Latin music, but this is what we're going to deal with for today. So, 5, 6, 5, 6, 7, 8. 1, 2, 3, 4. So try it again. Check out the official app http://apple.co/1JSDyRv. Watch more How to Dance at a Club videos: http://www.howcast.com/videos/487718-... Learn how to dance like Shakira in this Howcast club dancing video with expert Tweetie.
My point was and still is that Shakira does not do a style of belly dance. She incorporates some movement that might be found in belly dance when performed with the right posture,music, spirit, cultural essence, etc. Regards, A'isha. 03-22-2007, 10:30 PM #7. Belly dance is only in part bout theose movements. it has its own feeling and spirit and has other elements that make it berlly dance that Shakira does not include in her artistic offerings. Please do not confuse what s Shakira does with
“Shakira taught me how to belly dance, she taught me the whole routine. I used to watch her videos and I thought she was so cool. When she was teaching me the moves I thought, ‘This is crazy, Shakira is showing me how to belly dance!’ You can see Shakira dancing in her video Whenever, Wherever on YouTube. She often performs barefoot. Shakira says she learned this form of dance as a young teen to overcome her shyness. Below is a fun belly dancing tutorial video from YouTube, which also helps to explain some of the aspects of belly dancing, as well as explaining some of the techniques and movements.
Though its origins aren't clear, according to some sources, belly dancing's roots can be traced to the Middle East and North Africa around the time of the Pyramids. Today, belly dancing has found a home in the booming beats of modern pop and dance music. 1 Famously featured in Shakira's Hips Don't Lie video. 2  Lift one of your heels so that you have one foot flat on the ground and one foot on its toes. 3  While you make this motion, pop your hip out to the side. 4  Practice this move, slowly increasing your speed until you can repeat it quickly to the beat of the music.
Shakira the singer is not a belly dancer. She is a singer who has occasonally used some of the same movements in her choreographies that belly dancers and other kinds of dancers use. Belly dance is only in part bout theose movements. it has its own feeling and spirit and has other elements that make it berlly dance that Shakira does not include in her artistic offerings. Please do not confuse what s Shakira does with belly dance. I know its easy to do this, but I swear to you that she is not a belly dancer, no matter what movements she is using, because the dance is much more than movement