The initial velocity needed to achieve that condition is called escape velocity. From the surface of the Earth, escape velocity (ignoring air friction) is about 7 miles per second, or 25,000 miles per hour. Given that initial speed, an object needs no additional force applied to completely escape Earth's gravity. Answered by: Paul Walorski, B.A. Physics, Part-time Physics Instructor.
To leave Earth's orbit, the spacecraft has to fly faster than Earth's escape velocity (the velocity required to escape the gravitational influence of Earth on the spacecraft). Prior to the third stage firing, the spacecraft is only going about 19,500 mph and it is stuck orbiting Earth. 
The 'second cosmic velocity' is the so-called escape velocity from the Earth: 11.2 kilometers per second. This is the speed a rocket should attain in order to be able to escape from the Earth’s gravitational field and fly to other planets. If a rocket is launched from the surface of the Earth, it needs to reach a speed of at least 7.9 kilometers per second (4.9 miles per second) in order to reach space. This speed of 7.9 kilometers per second is known as the orbital velocity, it corresponds to more than 20 times the speed of sound. © GFDL
Since escape velocity depends on the mass of the planet or moon that a spacecraft is blasting off of, a spacecraft leaving the moon's surface could go slower than one blasting off of the Earth, because the moon has less gravity than the Earth. For example, a spacecraft leaving the surface of Earth needs to be going 7 miles per second, or nearly 25,000 miles per hour to leave without falling back to the surface or falling into orbit. A Delta II rocket blasting off. A large amount of energy is needed to achieve escape velocity
It is said that in order for an object or a projectile to leave Earth's gravitational pull, it must reach Earth's escape velocity, meaning reach a speed of 7 miles per second (~11 km per second). The key difference is that escape velocity is how fast you would have to throw a stone straight up from the Earth's surface (ignoring air drag), for it to escape from Earth's gravitational influence.
For an actual escape orbit a spacecraft is first placed in low Earth orbit (160–2,000 km) and then accelerated to the escape velocity at that altitude, which is a little less — about 10.9 km/s. For an object of mass the energy required to escape the Earth's gravitational field is GMm / r, a function of the object's mass (where r is the radius of the Earth, G is the gravitational constant, and M is the mass of the Earth, M =5.9736×10 24 kg).
In physics, escape velocity is the minimum speed needed for an object to break free from the gravitational attraction of a massive body. The escape velocity from earth is about 40,270 km/h (25,020 mph). For an object of mass the energy required to escape the Earth's gravitational field is GMm / r, a function of the object's mass (where r is the radius of the Earth, G is the gravitational constant, and M is the mass of the Earth, M =5.9736×10 24 kg).
In common usage, the initial point is on the surface of a planet or moon. On the surface of the Earth, the escape velocity is about 11.2 kilometers per second (~6.96 mi/s), which is approximately 33 times the speed of sound (Mach 33) and several times the muzzle velocity of a rifle bullet (up to 1.7 km/s). For an object of mass the energy required to escape the Earth's gravitational field is GMm / r, a function of the object's mass (where r is the radius of the Earth, G is the gravitational constant, and M is the mass of the Earth, M =5.9736×10 24 kg).