Oncologists are doctors who specialize in treating people with cancer. As an oncologist, you will need to complete specialized training in residency after medical school. There are several different subspecialties in oncology, and you can choose to emphasize in medical, surgical, or radiation oncology.
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: About 14 years: 4 years of college 4 years of medical school 3 years of residency training in pediatrics 3 years of fellowship training in pediatric hematology/oncology You than need to become Board Certified in pediatric hematology/oncology (tests). Source(s): Panda · 6 years ago. 
There are a few other types of oncologists, all of which require a bachelor's degree and a medical doctorate. There are surgical oncologists who instead of a 3 year medicine residency do a 5-7 year general surgery residency, then have a 1-2 year surgical oncology fellowship. Surgical oncologists cut out tumors. it takes approximatly 14 years to become a professional scientist depending on how long your taking the college classes. the most it has taken normal class taking students is … 15 years. to become a basic scientist it only takes 6 years and 2 months Answer: People are generally done high school by 18.
Medical oncologist   Surgical oncologist and   Radiation oncologist   Training in the USA will take 4 years B degree, … 4 years medical school and 5 years of residency.   A state board license to practice as a registered oncologist is required following the many years of training. it takes approximatly 14 years to become a professional scientist depending on how long your taking the college classes. the most it has taken normal class taking students is … 15 years. to become a basic scientist it only takes 6 years and 2 months Answer: People are generally done high school by 18.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. 4 years of undergraduate college, 4 years of medical school, 3 years of pediatric residency, and 3 years of pediatric oncology fellowship = 14 years. Of course, the last 6 years you are making a reasonable salary, rather than putting out money in tuition. It takes 4 years of college,4 years of medical school,and 3-7 years of residency (working in a hospital) *College-4 years *Medical School-4 years *Training-3 - 7 years (… depending if you want to be a specialist or a general practitioner). + 4 others found this useful. Setya Bima.
Kudos to those who can do it. Mike. It takes 4 years of college, 4 years of medical school, 3 years of residency, and 3 years of fellowship to become an oncologist. Essentially, you don't starting getting paid till you're at least 32 years old with about $200,000 dollars in debt. 
You go through 4 years of undergraduate institution 4 years of medical school and then you have to spend about 2-3 years in your specialty area depending on what it is. Th … en you have your student intern and your residency so all together your looking at 13 years before you are certified in that area of practice. it takes approximatly 14 years to become a professional scientist depending on how long your taking the college classes. the most it has taken normal class taking students is … 15 years. to become a basic scientist it only takes 6 years and 2 months Answer: People are generally done high school by 18.
1 Complete Residency. 2  A residency is the professional training in a hospital or clinic that is required before you can become an oncologist. 3  The length of residency time required will depend on the specialized area of oncology you are studying and can last anywhere between 2 to 5 years. At Memorial Medical Oncology & Hematology, we have some of the top cancer doctors in Colorado Springs. 1  Earn Your Bachelor's Degree. 2  The first step you must take on your journey to becoming an oncologist is earning your Bachelor's degree.
Schooling. The first four years of a future pediatric oncologist's career are used to earn an undergraduate degree. Any major is acceptable, as long as the coursework covers the prerequisites for admission into medical school. A pediatric oncologist must take two full sets of board examinations. The first comes at the end of the initial three years' residency. Candidates apply to the American Board of Pediatrics, taking a seven-hour computer-based test that's given just once each year.