If tanning on a sunbed, start with 2-3 minutes. Space your sessions and don’t ever go every day. As your tan develops you can increase the number of minutes you are on. Again, only increase your time on gradually, and only in 1-2 minute increments at a time. 3.
4. Wear Sunscreen When Tanning. If you do not use sunscreen when tanning, UVB & UVA rays may still harm your skin. You can use a lip balm with sunscreen, and you apply your sunscreen into the shade, then you allow it to soak in for about 20 to 25 minutes before going into the sun.
You almost always burn and rarely tan in the sun. You are highly susceptible to skin damage as well as cancers like basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma. You are also at high risk for melanoma, the deadliest type of skin cancer.
Type I (0-6 Points): You always burn and never tan in the sun. You are extremely susceptible to skin damage as well as cancers like basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma. You are also at very high risk for melanoma, the deadliest type of skin cancer.
1 If you don't use sunscreen while tanning, UVA and UVB rays can still harm your skin, even if you don't get burned! 2  Use lip balm with sunscreen as well. 3  Ideally, apply your sunscreen in the shade, and let it soak in for 20-25 minutes before you go into the sun.
If you are just going to sit on the beach and tan for an hour put SPF 4-15 on, depending on how fair your complexion is and how much base you've already built up. 1  If you don't use sunscreen while tanning, UVA and UVB rays can still harm your skin, even if you don't get burned! 2  Use lip balm with sunscreen as well.
You sometimes burn and sometimes tan in the sun. You are susceptible to skin damage as well as cancers like basal cell carcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma. You are also at risk for melanoma, the deadliest type of skin cancer.
1 If you have a moderate tan, wear black or white to accent your tan. 2  If you are exactly where you want to be, and really tan, wear any color you want. 3  If you get sunburnt, try using olive oil and iodine or use 100% cocoa butter and stay out of the sun for a few days.