There really isn't a best food out there for any breed. But Shiba's tend to have allergies relating to grain. One of my boys use to tear himself up on foods high in grain. We feed Innova (http://www.innovapet.com/products/defaul... which is low in grain.The grain used is easily digestible by dogs. I'm aware of the good dog food brands out there... Solid Gold, Orijen, Diamond, etc... BUT I which brand AND formula is recommended for a shiba inu. Source(s): dog food shiba inu: https://biturl.im/LzE4v.
Shiba Inus are generally healthy, but like all breeds, they're prone to certain health conditions. Not all Shiba Inus will get any or all of these diseases, but it's important to be aware of them if you're considering this breed. 1 The Shiba Inu can be aggressive with other dogs and he will chase small animals he perceives as prey. 2  The Shiba Inu tends to be possessive about his toys, food, and turf. 3  To get a healthy dog, never buy a puppy from an irresponsible breeder, puppy mill, or pet store.
A Shiba Inu in Kagawa Prefecture, Japan. Inu is the Japanese word for dog, but the origin of the prefix Shiba is less clear. The word shiba means brushwood in Japanese, and refers to a type of tree or shrub whose leaves turn red in the fall. It looks similar to and is often mistaken for other Japanese dog breeds like the Akita Inu or Hokkaido, but the Shiba Inu is a different breed with a distinct blood line, temperament and smaller size than other Japanese dog breeds. It is one of the few ancient dog breeds still in existence in the world today
Advertisement. Shiba inus are awesome dogs, and they definitely have very unique personalities. This is our shiba inu, Hoju (semi-obscure Simpsons reference), at our wedding. He's now 10 years old, but when we got him, he was only 8 weeks old and could fit in the palm of your hand. Like all dogs, shibas are extremely food-motivated, love to play with toys, and spend a lot of time itching themselves and sleeping. 
The Shiba Inu dog breed was originally bred to flush birds and small game, and was occasionally used to hunt wild boar. He is one of Japan's six native breeds: Akita (large), Kishu, Hokkaido, Kai, Shikoku (medium), and Shiba (small). He is known for his spirited personality, small upright ears, and cat-like agility. 1 The Shiba Inu can be aggressive with other dogs and he will chase small animals he perceives as prey. 2  The Shiba Inu tends to be possessive about his toys, food, and turf. 3  To get a healthy dog, never buy a puppy from an irresponsible breeder, puppy mill, or pet store.
Keep your Shiba Inu in good shape by measuring his food and feeding him twice a day rather than leaving food out all the time. If you're unsure whether he's overweight, give him the eye test and the hands-on test. First, look down at him. 1 The Shiba Inu can be aggressive with other dogs and he will chase small animals he perceives as prey. 2  The Shiba Inu tends to be possessive about his toys, food, and turf. 3  To get a healthy dog, never buy a puppy from an irresponsible breeder, puppy mill, or pet store.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Um...I have a Shiba Inu and honestly, there isn't a recommended food for them. A complete formula is your best bet, perhaps one that contains glucosamine, as Shiba's health problems are typically related to bone joint issues. But Solid Gold, Orijen, Wellness...they're all great foods for any breed. I'm aware of the good dog food brands out there... Solid Gold, Orijen, Diamond, etc... BUT I which brand AND formula is recommended for a shiba inu. Source(s): dog food shiba inu: https://biturl.im/LzE4v.
Probably the most important way in which a Shiba Inu resembles a cat is in his independence, aloofness, and stubbornness. Like cats, Shibas enjoy their own company and are usually not interested in too much human attention. Pam says. I have a shiba/chow mix, she looks pretty much like a shiba inu, but she has a purple tongue, and extra fur padding on her hips, looks like she’s wearing knickers! My question is this: she likes to wind her way through my legs, leaning on my legs and rubbing her face/eyes against my jeans.
Feeding Your Shiba Inu. We feed our Shiba Inus Diamond Naturals Lamb and Rice dry dog food. This food has No Corn, No Wheat, and No Soy fillers which are all very poorly digested by your pet. It comes in 20 and 40 pound bags and is not found on a grocery store isle. We also think very highly of several other high quality premium dog foods. We like the dog food made by Blue as it is very good and we also like Chicken Soup for the Pet Lovers Soul. For this reason we wrote this guide to help you in feeding your Shiba Inu. You want to feed your dog lamb, fish, or chicken based food. Beef is too harsh on a Shiba’s stomach