Elephants are the largest land mammals living on the Earth today. They have no natural predators other than man and can live between 50 and 70 years. They need a large range of area in which to live, forage, travel, breed, and raise families, and the climates of Africa and Asia are perfect for these activities.
Size: Asian elephants live in large blocks of forest near water sources and grasslands, habitat that has been greatly reduced in the last half century. They inhabit India, Sri Lanka, Myanmar (Burma), Indonesia, Thailand, Cambodia, Vietnam, Laos, Malaysia, Nepal, Bangladesh, and southern China.
In the wild, Asian elephants may live up to about 60 years but most do not live that long. Asian elephants once ranged from Iraq east through Asia south of the Himalayas, into southern China and possibly south to Java. However, centuries of hunting and habitat destruction caused dramatic declines.
1 Adult male and female elephants do not live in the same herd in the wild. 2  Elephant herds are extended family units comprised of females and headed by a matriarch – an older female. 3  When a male elephant reaches maturity, he leaves the herd.
There are two species of elephant. The Asian elephant and the African elephant live on separate continents and have many unique features. There are several subspecies that belong to one or the other of these two main species, though there is disagreement over just how many subspecies there are.
African elephants live in sub-Saharan Africa, the rain forests of Central and West Africa and the Sahel desert in Mali. Asian elephants live in Nepal, India and Southeast Asia in scrub forests and rain forests.
Elephants live in just 2 continents in the world-Africa and Asia. African elephants are found in 36 African countries. 2 species of elephants live in Africa-Savanna Elephants (which live in grasslands, marshes and beside lakes) and Forest Elephants (which live in dense rainforests).
How Long does an Elephant Live. Elephants are the largest mammals that live on land. There are two different kinds of elephants-the African elephant and the Asian elephant. You can identify an African elephant from an Asian elephant from the size of their ears and the tusks and their height.