Grittihs) we got a quote in less than 45 mins. for a 1.5 car garage the estimate is $12,354 for a 2 car garage (with a short approaching driveway) will cost us $16,325 this includes the demolition of old garage, 30 year roof, all electrical, slab, garage door, an entrance door and 1 window. We have obtained 2 bids for a garage add on. We have a three car garage and want to add a 4th bay. The quotes have been $38,900 and $57,500. I believe that we will go with the higher bid, simply because this contractor explained all of the costs and the rationale for various steps in the process.
This one’s pretty self-explanatory. The bigger the garage, the more it will cost to take down. It’s not necessarily that a bigger garage is tougher for the demolition company to take down, the increased cost is more linked to the amount of debris generated. It costs more to haul away all the debris. Where you live. Your geographic location plays a major role in how much you’ll pay to for a garage demolition. It comes down to cost of living. For example, it costs more to demolish a garage in Los Angeles than it would in Memphis, TN.
It's a 2-car garage demolition. Demolition Cost Details: Two-car garage, constructed primarily of wood. Final Cost: $1,500. Garage Demolition in North Richland Hills, TX. Demolish an all wood detached garage. It measured 20 ft. by 20 ft. and sat on a slab. We had all the debris hauled away. The slab was untouched. Garage Demolition, Small Shed Demolition. 1 1/2 car garage removal with small shed attached (10 ft sq), customer has permit and utilities were cut off. Demolition Cost Details: 1 1/2 car garage removal, small shed remov
I seperated the house from the garage/sunroom so that the demolition people could pull it down and remove. I also moved the gas lines and electric utilities. The cost of removing the garage and sunroom plus excavating for the addition (25x36 9' deep) and garage (26x36 6' deep for footings) was ~$6k. All of the dirt stayed on-site and we built a berm. Like Bookmark March 12, 2008 at 12:19PM. Thank you for reporting this comment.
280 quotes from rated businesses for garage demolish. Receive estimates and quotes for your garage demolish job on MyHammer. There are thousands of rated tradesmen and service-providers waiting for your job descriptions in all areas including garage demolish. You will find expert tradesmen specialised in everything from A to Z and not forgetting garage demolish. 
Because it’s not as complicated of a job compared to taking down a house or inground swimming pool, it costs less. The national average cost to demolish a garage or large shed is $2,100. TIP: Use Hometown’s free Garage and Shed Demolition Costs tool. Various factors play a role in whether the price to demolish your garage is more or less than the national average. Some of these factors include your location, size of the garage or shed, ease of access, disposal costs and overall complexity of the job. Where you live. Your geographic location plays a major role in how much you’ll pay to for a garage demolition. It comes down to cost of living. For example, it costs more to demolish a garage in Los Angeles than it would in Memphis, TN.
Garage demolition-basic concrete and wood structure for $4,250 being the final cost. Final Cost: $1,000. Space Converted to a Garage for $1,000. The garage in my home had been converted to a bedroom and I hired Watco to restore it back to a garage. Garage Demolition, Small Shed Demolition. 1 1/2 car garage removal with small shed attached (10 ft sq), customer has permit and utilities were cut off. Demolition Cost Details: 1 1/2 car garage removal, small shed remov
1 Upgrading the quality of materials can bump the cost to $55 a square foot, or $13,200 for a minimum single-car structure, $21,000 for a two-car garage and $47,000 or more for the dream version. We have obtained 2 bids for a garage add on. We have a three car garage and want to add a 4th bay. The quotes have been $38,900 and $57,500. I believe that we will go with the higher bid, simply because this contractor explained all of the costs and the rationale for various steps in the process.
Ask the asbestos abatement professional for an estimate on how much this will cost. Usually, it is around $2 or $3 per square foot. For instance, if you have a building that has 1,750 square feet and was quoted $2 per square foot for asbestos removal, the cost for this part of the demolition will cost $3,500. Add this price to the amount the professional asbestos inspector charged for the discovery of asbestos