Ways OTC products work. Non-prescription (over-the-counter) cold sore (fever blister) products typically provide their treatment benefit via one of the following modes of action. 1  They help to create an optimal healing environment, so the sore heals as quickly and as uneventfully as possible.
There are many over-the-counter medications available for cold sores. Most of them treat the pain and discomfort of a cold sore with anesthetics. There is one product available that speeds up the healing process for cold sores called Abreva, which contains docosanol.
If your cold sore is especially painful or irritating, your doctor may prescribe an anesthetic gel to alleviate pain or an antiviral oral medication to speed healing or prevent recurrence. The antiviral medicines available for treatment include acyclovir (Zovirax), famciclovir (Famvir), and valacyclovir (Valtrex).
Over the Counter Medicine for Cold Sores. Most over-the-counter cold sore medications are only palliative, that means they can only relieve cold sore symptoms such as pain and itching. Many of them can also help provide a sterile environment to prevent the development of more sores and promote healing.
Over-the-Counter Cold Sore Treatments. Cold sores and fever blisters are painful, fluid-filled blisters on or near the lips caused by a virus called herpes simplex type 1. Cold sores are contagious and spread by touch. An over-the-counter medicine called docosanol (brand name Abreva®) may help cold sores heal faster and reduce symptoms. Studies show that Abreva can help cold sores heal one day sooner than when no drug is used.
1 Apply a cold sore ointment. 2  Docosanol (Abreva) is an over-the-counter cream for cold sores. 3  It must be applied frequently and may shorten an outbreak by a few hours or a day. 4  Try other cold sore remedies.
A. There are many over-the-counter medications available for cold sores. Most of them treat the pain and discomfort of a cold sore with anesthetics. There is one product available that speeds up the healing process for cold sores called Abreva, which contains docosanol.