The development of a medium-term framework for fiscal policy. Australia’s fiscal policy framework has evolved considerably over the past quarter-century, in large part in response to the medium-term influences discussed above.
Monetary policy aims to achieve this over the medium term so as to encourage strong and sustainable growth in the economy. Controlling inflation preserves the value of money. In the long run, this is the principal way in which monetary policy can help to form a sound basis for long-term
DEFINITION of 'Monetary Policy'. Monetary policy is the actions of a central bank, currency board or other regulatory committee that determine the size and rate of growth of the money supply, which in turn affects interest rates.
Within the framework of the Government's medium‑term fiscal strategy, Australia's fiscal policy settings have helped the Australian economy remain resilient through the global financial crisis and severe global economic turbulence in recent years.
Government monetary policy-makers are generally much more successful in manipulating short-term interest rates (rates on loans for periods of less than a year) than they are in manipulating medium-term interest rates (1 to 5 years) and long-term interest rates (more than five years).
The inflation target is defined as a medium-term average rather than as a rate (or band of rates) that must be held at all times. This formulation allows for the inevitable uncertainties that are involved in forecasting, and lags in the effects of monetary policy on the economy.
A key element of the Government's medium‑term fiscal strategy is to achieve budget surpluses, on average, over the medium term. This objective allows flexibility to respond to economic conditions in the short term, while maintaining fiscal sustainability
One of the key instruments used to conduct macro-fiscal management is a Medium-Term Fiscal Framework (MTFF). This project focuses on working with colleagues from the Fiscal Programming Unit (UPF), which is a division of the Office of International Economic Studies and Relations (GEREI) in the MINFIN.
Inflation targeting has several advantages as a medium-term strategy for monetary policy. In contrast to an exchange rate target, inflation targeting enables monetary policy to focus on domestic considerations and to respond to shocks to the domestic economy.