Sperm and egg cells are haploid cells, meaning they have half the number of chromosomes as all other cells in the body. Humans have 46 chromosomes, so human reproductive cells will have 23. The sperm contains one copy of each of the 22 autosomal chromosomes and either one X or one Y chromosome. After fusion, these pair up to form a diploid cell, so that there are 46 chromosomes-two of each of the 22 autosomal chromosomes, and either two X chromosomes, or one X and
Answer   i think 26     Answer   i think 26     Answer   46 chromosomes. The sperm cell and egg cell each contain 23 chromosomes, totalling … 46. The sperm cells and egg cells are known as haploid cells or sex cells (meaning having 1 set of chromosomes). A human egg/sperm cell has 23 chromosomes. When the sperm and egg fuse together,, the zygote (fertilised egg) contains 46 chromosomes. Scientists call this the diploid number, … with the sperm/egg having a haploid number of chromosomes. This number varies between species.
There are 46 chromosomes, in 23 matching pairs. Egg and sperm cells are haploid, meaning they only have one copy of each chromosome, rather than the two copies that the soma … tic (non-reproductive) cells of the body have. The sperm contains one copy of each of the 22 autosomal chromosomes and either one X or one Y chromosome. After fusion, these pair up to form a diploid cell, so that there are 46 chromosomes-two of each of the 22 autosomal chromosomes, and either two X chromosomes, or one X and
All 46 chromosomes. No, sex cells have a half set of chromosomes. 23, one from each pair. That is correct. 23, pairs 1-11 and one selected randomly from the remaining pairs. Human sex cells do have 23 chromosomes, but not these 23. None, egg cells don't have chromosomes. No, sex cells do have chromosomes. Meiosis reduces chromosome number so that sex cells (eggs and sperm) have a half set of chromosomes–one homolog of each pair. This is the haploid number. 23, 11 random pairs and one extra
In humans, each cell normally contains 23 pairs of chromosomes, for a total of 46. Twenty-two of these pairs, called autosomes, look the same in both males and females. The 23rd pair, the sex chromosomes, differ between males and females. 
Best Answer: A human body cell would have 46 chromosomes. Since a human egg cell is a reproductive cell (sex cell), it would contain only half the number of chromosomes as a body cell. Thus, a human egg cell would have 23 chromosomes. A sex cell has half the number of chromosomes for a good reason. When two sex cells reproduce, they combine to form double the number of chromosomes. So when two cells with 23 chromosomes each reproduce, the offspring
The chromosomes in an egg or sperm are only one chromosome from each pair. There are 23 single chromosomes in the egg and 23 single chromosomes in the sperm. When the tw … o cells join together, the zygote has 23 PAIRS of chromosomes, or 46 chromosomes total. The sperm contains one copy of each of the 22 autosomal chromosomes and either one X or one Y chromosome. After fusion, these pair up to form a diploid cell, so that there are 46 chromosomes-two of each of the 22 autosomal chromosomes, and either two X chromosomes, or one X and
All act in the same way during cell division. Human cells have 23 pairs of chromosomes (22 pairs of autosomes and one pair of sex chromosomes), giving a total of 46 per cell. In addition to these, human cells have many hundreds of copies of the mitochondrial genome. 
Marie Curie. Human egg cells contain one set of 23 chromosomes. Because they contain half of the 46 chromosomes contained in body cells (2 sets of 23), the egg cells are said to be haploid. A human egg/sperm cell has 23 chromosomes. When the sperm and egg fuse together,, the zygote (fertilised egg) contains 46 chromosomes. Scientists call this the diploid number, … with the sperm/egg having a haploid number of chromosomes. This number varies between species.