Best Answer: To write a letter you need a word-processing application. When you buy a new pc with whatever version of Windows you usually get Microsoft Works thrown in. That is a cut-down version of Microsoft Office, and it has a word processor (its quite a basic word processor actually and one th at is awkward to use). Report Abuse. It is an easy matter provided you have the software. If you do not have Microsoft Office, and here you would use Word to write your letter, you will have both NotePad and WordPad, that is assuming you have a Microsoft Operating System, i.e. XP or Vista. They are both basic text processing programs but you could do a straightforward letter in them
Step 5. You can make use of the Letter Wizard to write your letter. To run the Letter Wizard, click on 'Tools' (or press Alt+T), then point your mouse to 'Letters and Mailings' and on its submenu, click the 'Letter Wizard' item and then click on the 'OK' button twice to start the four-step Letter Wizard process. Step 6. Step 2. Launch MS Word by clicking the 'Start' button, then the 'All Programs' button and the 'Microsoft Word' icon. Create a new file in MS Word by clicking 'File' and then the 'New' menu item to access the templates.
You must insert your recipient’s name and address. Step 2. Launch MS Word by clicking the 'Start' button, then the 'All Programs' button and the 'Microsoft Word' icon. Create a new file in MS Word by clicking 'File' and then the 'New' menu item to access the templates. Step 3. Click on the 'Letters and Faxes' tab
Whether you want to send an informal letter to a friend or write a professional correspondence, the computer can help. Typing on the computer, also known as word processing, is easy to set up. It is likely that your computer is already set up with the most basic software you need to type a letter. However, with a little extra effort you can set up your computer to produce a higher quality product. Open your word processing program. Using a word processor will give you more flexibility in how to format your letter and also comes with spelling and grammar checking capability. Consider using a template for your letter. Templates automatically format your letter and automate some parts of the process.
Where do i go to on my computer to write a letter and then print it out. Sorry but i'm only starting recently to understand some things about my computer so i'm asking. 
Best Answer: Write your letter in word pad. That is found via start, programs, accessories. Use the print preview option to check alignment on the page before printing. If you need to use a spell checker you may need to write the letter in your e-mail, run your spell checker, then copy and paste into word pad. If your letter is quite lengthy, the print preview option will show where you need to adjust your writing (by hitting enter and checking print preview until a second page is displayed). Hope this helps.
Instructions. Use WordPad, which comes standard with all Windows computers, to type your letter if only you need the ability to type. WordPad can be found by going to your Start Menu, clicking on All Programs, then Accessories and selecting WordPad. Check whether your computer has a copy of a word processing program installed. Open your word processing program. Using a word processor will give you more flexibility in how to format your letter and also comes with spelling and grammar checking capability. Consider using a template for your letter. Templates automatically format your letter and automate some parts of the process.
You would get to them by going to Windows Start Button, select All Programs, and select Accessories. When the list expands you can select Notepad or Wordpad to write your letter. Then you can print using Print option. You must have already added your printer. If you have more specific questions or if I didn't answer your question, please reply back and let us know. 