The active ingredient in Dettol that confers its antiseptic property is chloroxylenol (C 8 H 9 ClO), an aromatic chemical compound. Chloroxylenol comprises 4.8% of Dettol's total admixture, with the rest made up by pine oil, isopropanol, castor oil, soap and water. Dettol is toxic to many animals, especially cats. Dettol contains the phenol chloroxylenol. Phenols are of particular concern because cats are unable to eliminate the toxins following ingestion. A cat may swallow the product by licking its paws after they have come into contact with it
The rest is composed of pine … oil, isopropanol, castor oil soap, caramel, and water. Dettol Antiseptic Liquid Disinfectant (also called PCMX) is the name of commercial liquid and solid antiseptic products belonging to a household product line manufactured by Reckitt Benckiser. 16 people found this useful
Dettol, an antiseptic cleaning product made by Reckitt Benckiser, was developed based on modifications of phenol, an antiseptic that kills germs, discovered in 1860, by Joseph Lister. Pine oil is made from the cone, twigs and needles of the pine tree. When pine oil is diluted in water it emulsifies, or forms a cloudy liquid. This cloudiness also occurs when dettol is diluted. Pine oil is used in a variety of bath oils and bath soaps and as an essential oil in aromatherapy.
A number of disinfectant and antiseptic products are available under the Dettol brand including disinfectants for surfaces, antiseptics for use on the body, wipes and sprays. Here we will concentrate on the ‘core’ product-the liquid antiseptic, Figure 5. Figure 5: Dettol liquid antiseptic, contains chloroxylenol. The active germ-killing ingredient in Dettol is in fact 4-chloro-3,5-dimethylphenol, also known by its non-systematic name para-chloro-meta-xylenol or PCMX, Figure 4. The prefix para is a non-systematic way of indicating the 4- position on the benzene ring, ie opposite the −OH group.
Chloroxylenol. Chloroxylenol is the antibacterial in dettol that acts to kill germs and reduce inflammation. Chloroxylenol makes dettol an effective household disinfectant. According to the Drugs.com website, chloroxylenol could cause mild skin irritation in some individuals, or cause an allergic reaction in others. Pine oil is made from the cone, twigs and needles of the pine tree. When pine oil is diluted in water it emulsifies, or forms a cloudy liquid. This cloudiness also occurs when dettol is diluted. Pine oil is used in a variety of bath oils and bath soaps and as an essential oil in aromatherapy.
Castor oil soap is used to keep the phenol in dettol in solution until it is diluted with water for use. Caramel and water are the other ingredients in dettol. Caramel gives dettol its yellowish brown color and the water acts as a diluent, binding the other ingredients together. Pine oil is made from the cone, twigs and needles of the pine tree. When pine oil is diluted in water it emulsifies, or forms a cloudy liquid. This cloudiness also occurs when dettol is diluted. Pine oil is used in a variety of bath oils and bath soaps and as an essential oil in aromatherapy.
Dettol is the trade name for a line of hygiene products manufactured by Reckitt Benckiser. It has been in use since before 1936, when it was used after surgery as an antiseptic. Dettol is toxic to many animals, especially cats. Dettol contains the phenol chloroxylenol. Phenols are of particular concern because cats are unable to eliminate the toxins following ingestion. A cat may swallow the product by licking its paws after they have come into contact with it
Overview. Dettol, an antiseptic cleaning product made by Reckitt Benckiser, was developed based on modifications of phenol, an antiseptic that kills germs, discovered in 1860, by Joseph Lister. The active ingredient in dettol is cholroxylenol B.P.4.8%w/v. Pine oil is made from the cone, twigs and needles of the pine tree. When pine oil is diluted in water it emulsifies, or forms a cloudy liquid. This cloudiness also occurs when dettol is diluted. Pine oil is used in a variety of bath oils and bath soaps and as an essential oil in aromatherapy.
The active ingredient in Dettol liquid is an aromatic chemical compound known as chloroxylenol, which makes up 4.8 percent of Dettol's total solution. The remainder is a mixture of pine oil, isopropanol, castor oil soap, caramel and water. Other Uses. Dettol is also commonly used in Australia to kill cane toads, which are a pest species. When toads are sprayed or wiped with the liquid, the Dettol is rapidly absorbed through the toad's skin, causing death.