Most babies get their first tooth at around 6 months, but your child's chompers may appear as early as 3 months or as late as 14, depending on such factors as when Mom and Dad started sprouting teeth and whether or not your baby was a preemie (preemies tend to teethe on the late side). 
1 Use a clean finger (or cold teething ring) to gently rub your baby's gum for about 2 minutes at a time. 2  Many babies find this soothing, although they may protest at first. Here are some tips to help your baby feel better while teething: 1  Use a clean finger (or cold teething ring) to gently rub your baby's gum for about 2 minutes at a time. 2  Many babies find this soothing, although they may protest at first. 3  Provide safe objects for your baby to chew on, such as teething rings
23. Teething occurs when the teeth emerge through the gums. It can be a frustrating time for many parents, as babies and children can become unsettled when they teethe. There are measures which you can take to improve symptoms of teething in your baby or child. Teething occurs when the 'baby teeth' (or milk teeth) come through the gums. It is a normal part of development. Although the milk teeth develop when the baby is growing in the womb, the teeth only start to grow throughout the gums when the baby is 6-9 months old (although it can be before or after these ages)
When a baby begins teething, there is no set pattern on when it will begin, how long it will take and how painful it will be. For one baby cutting a tooth might happen overnight without pain, while another child might have to go through a long, drawn out and painful experience. The process of teething often follows hereditary patterns, so if the mother and father teethed early or late, your baby may follow the same pattern. On average the first tooth comes in during the seventh month, although it can arrive as early as three months, as late as a year, or in rare cases even earlier or later.
1 Give your baby something cool to chew on, such as a chilled teething ring or a whole, peeled carrot that's been in the fridge. 2  Stay near your baby when he is chewing anything in case of choking (NHS 2014a) . 3  If your baby is older than four months, you can rub sugar-free teething gel for babies on his gums. 1 If your baby is older than four months, you can rub sugar-free teething gel for babies on his gums. 2  You can buy this from your pharmacy (NHS 2014a) . 3  If your baby is older than six months, he may get relief from eating cold foods, such as apple puree or yoghurt, straight from
Teething usually begins around 6 months of age. But it is normal for teething to start at any time between 3 months and 12 months of age. By the time your child is about 3 years old, he or she will have all 20 primary teeth. The lower front teeth usually come in first. Upper front teeth usually come in 1 to 2 months after the lower front teeth. Here are some tips to help your baby feel better while teething: 1  Use a clean finger (or cold teething ring) to gently rub your baby's gum for about 2 minutes at a time. 2  Many babies find this soothing, although they may protest at first. 3  Provide safe objects for your baby to chew on, such as teething rings
Teething can be a long drawn-out process for your baby (and you). In fact, the move from that gummy grin to a mouthful of gleaming teeth can take your baby his first three years to complete. Most babies sprout their first tooth at around six months (BDHF nd, NHS 2014a) . 1 If your baby is older than four months, you can rub sugar-free teething gel for babies on his gums. 2  You can buy this from your pharmacy (NHS 2014a) . 3  If your baby is older than six months, he may get relief from eating cold foods, such as apple puree or yoghurt, straight from the fridge.
A 9-month-old infant with a visible right lower central incisor. Teething is the process by which an infant 's first teeth (the deciduous teeth, often called baby teeth or milk teeth) sequentially appear by emerging through the gums, typically arriving in pairs. Teething may start as early as six months or as late as eight months. 