Many people wonder how to eat Brie cheese. Brie is a soft cows' milk cheese that is named after the province in France in which it originated. It is made by adding rennet to raw milk, heating it to 98.6 degrees and then casting into molds, where it is drained for about 20 hours. 1 Lay the puff pastry on a baking sheet and place the wheel of Brie on top. 2  Fold the pastry up over the cheese. 3  Gently squeeze together the pastry to seal and turn the cheese wheel over so that the sealed edge is on the bottom.
Brie (/briː/ ; [bʁi]) is a soft cow's milk cheese named after Brie, the French region from which it originated (roughly corresponding to the modern departement département Of-seine-Et). Marne it is pale in color with a slight grayish tinge under a rind of white. mold By contrast, camembert is ripened as a small round cheese 10 cm (4 in) in diameter by about 3 cm (1.25 in) thick and fully covered by rind. This ratio change between rind and paste makes camembert slightly stronger when compared to a brie ripened for the same amount of time.
1 Another way to serve it is to wrap Brie in aluminum foil and bake it in the oven till warm and soft in middle. 2  This makes the cheese easier to spread on bread or crackers and makes a nice contrast for cold fruit on the side. 3  The fat content is overestimated by most consumers. It is pale in color, often found with an edible white rind, and it may have a slight greyish tinge underneath the rind. Aged brie will have a stronger flavor and the rind will become crumbly. Here are some tips on how to serve this delicious, savory cheese.
@vwiggins: maybe you should read how Brie, Camembert etc. are made, because GdD is actually right, the rind is composed of the same material (milk + bacteria + salt + rennet. Once coagulated it is put in molds and then sprayed with Penicillium). – nico Nov 10 '12 at 10:08. 
True Brie cheese is unpasteurized and illegal to import to the US. Answer: True French Brie is a soft farmhouse cheese made of unpasteurized cow's milk and is illegal to import to the United States. 
Tips. 1  Another way to serve it is to wrap Brie in aluminum foil and bake it in the oven till warm and soft in middle. 2  This makes the cheese easier to spread on bread or crackers and makes a nice contrast for cold fruit on the side. 3  The fat content is overestimated by most consumers. It is pale in color, often found with an edible white rind, and it may have a slight greyish tinge underneath the rind. Aged brie will have a stronger flavor and the rind will become crumbly. Here are some tips on how to serve this delicious, savory cheese.
Brie may be produced from whole or semi-skimmed milk. The curd is obtained by adding rennet to raw milk and warming it to a maximum temperature of 37 °C (99 °F). The cheese is then cast into molds, sometimes with a traditional perforated ladle called a pelle a à. brie By contrast, camembert is ripened as a small round cheese 10 cm (4 in) in diameter by about 3 cm (1.25 in) thick and fully covered by rind. This ratio change between rind and paste makes camembert slightly stronger when compared to a brie ripened for the same amount of time.
Brie (/briː/ ; [bʁi]) is a soft cow's milk cheese named after Brie, the French region from which it originated (roughly corresponding to the modern departement département Of-seine-Et). marne By contrast, camembert is ripened as a small round cheese 10 cm (4 in) in diameter by about 3 cm (1.25 in) thick and fully covered by rind. This ratio change between rind and paste makes camembert slightly stronger when compared to a brie ripened for the same amount of time.
Brie. n. A mold-ripened, whole-milk cheese with a whitish rind and a soft, light yellow center. [After. , a region of northern France .]. 
Brie is the best known French cheese and has a nickname The Queen of Cheeses. Brie is a soft cheese named after the French region Brie, where it was originally created. Several hundred years ago, Brie was one of the tributes which had to be paid to the French kings. In France, Brie is very different from the cheese exported to the United States. Real French Brie is unstabilized and the flavour is complex when the surface turns slightly brown. When the cheese is still pure-white, it is not matured. Brie cheese is slightly pale in colour with a greyish tinge under a rind. Its flavour varies depending upon the ingredients added while producing the cheese. Brie, one of the great dessert cheeses, comes as either a 1 or 2 kilogram wheel and is packed in a wooden box.