Meaning & History. Derived from the Dakota word shahiyena meaning red speakers. This is the name of a Native American people of the Great Plains. The name was supposedly given to the Cheyenne by the Dakota because their language was unrelated to their own. As a given name, it has been in use since the 1950s
What does Cheyenne mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Cheyenne is of Native American Sioux origin. The meaning of Cheyenne is people of a different speech. 
Meaning of Cheyenne. French name. In French, the name Cheyenne means-dog. Other origins for the name Cheyenne include-French, Native American.The name Cheyenne is most often used as a girl name or female name. French Name Meaning-dog. Origin-Franc
Cheyenne /chey-enne/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less regularly as boys' name Cheyenne) is pronounced shy-ENN. It is of Native American Indian origin, and the meaning of Cheyenne is unintelligible speakers. From the French name shaiyena. 
French Meaning: The name Cheyenne is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Cheyenne is: An Algonquian tribe of the Great Plains. Capital city of Wyoming. Native American Meaning: The name Cheyenne is a Native American baby name. In Native American the meaning of the name Cheyenne is: An Algonquian tribe of the Great Plains. Capital city of Wyoming. American Meaning: The name Cheyenne is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Cheyenne is: An Algonquian tribe of the Great Plains. Capital city of Wyoming.
Origin of the name Cheyenne: Derived from the Dakota Indian shaiyena which is from shaia (to speak unintelligibly). The name is that of a tribe of Algonquian Indians, as well as a river and city name. Var: Shaienne, Shai’enne. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Meanings and history of the name Cheyenne : | Edit. The word “Cheyenne” is French Canadian, originating from Sioux Dakota word “šahiyena” šahíyena “meaning speak” incoherently from the “elements” (ša) red “and” (ya). speak
Definition of CHEYENNE. 1. : a member of an American Indian people of the western plains of the United States. 2. : the Algonquian language of the Cheyenne people. See Cheyenne defined for English-language learners. See Cheyenne defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Definition of CHEYENNE for Kids. 1. : a member of an American Indian people of the western plains ranging between the Arkansas and Missouri rivers. 2. : the
Comments and insights on the name Cheyenne: | Edit. The Cheyenne are a Native American nation that once inhabited the area between the Missouri and Arkansas rivers in the Great Plains, but as time went on, the Cheyenne people were eventually pushed more northwest (Montana, Wyoming and the Dakotas). Meanings and history of the name Cheyenne : | Edit. The word “Cheyenne” is French Canadian, originating from Sioux Dakota word “šahiyena” šahíyena “meaning speak” incoherently from the “elements” (ša) red “and” (ya). speak