Some vinegars, if stored improperly or too long, will develop a cloudy look. This cloudy substance (called mother of vinegar since it can be used to make more vinegar) can be filtered out with a paper coffee filter in order to salvage the vinegar.
A. Vinegar is indeed a product of wine that has gone bad. In fact the word vinegar is from the French words vin aigre which translates to sour wine.. Just as yeast consuming the sugars in grape juice creates alcohol as a by-product, bacteria known as acetobacteria consume the alcohol in wine and create acid.
You can do this be placing the filter to the mouth of the container and using a rubber band or circling your hands around the lip of the containers opening, and then pouring the clean vinegar through the filter and into another container. Then wash the bottle and pour your vinegar back into it.
Those changes in appearance do not make the vinegar unsafe to use, it adds. From a quality standpoint, though, prolonged storage can affect both the appearance and the flavor of many vinegars. In the case of opened wine vinegar, you’ll likely start to see at least some quality deterioration after a couple of years.
Vinegar has an indefinite amount of spoiling time, which means that your vinegar should never go bad. This is in part because of the acidic properties that it possesses, which make it virtually immune to spoiling. Neither does it need to be refrigerated.
To ensure that the vinegar stays at its best you should store apple cider vinegar properly. To do that, you just need to store it in a cool and dark place (e.g. pantry) and always keep in mind that the bottle of vinegar should be tightly sealed when not in use.
Much of what is sold as balsamic vinegar here is simply red wine vinegar with caramel or caramel coloring added to make it syrupy and sweet like true balsamic. The surprising news is that vinegar does indeed go bad.
Vinegar does not expire after certain time, but its quality will certainly deteriorate (most people are not fond of the changes in taste that are occurring) over time (especially after opening the bottle). Sometimes the apple cider vinegar can become cloudy or hazy, but it’s still safe to use.
Is cloudy cider vinegar safe to use for pickling? Vinegar, especially cider or wine vinegar, may become cloudy and dark when stored. Cloudiness occurs when iron in the vinegar combines with tannins, which are responsible for the astringent flavor of many fruits including apples and grapes. The reaction is more likely to occur if the vinegar is stored in clear glass bottles exposed to light.