leukocyte. a type of blood cell that lacks hemoglobin and is therefore colorless. Leukocytes are larger in size and fewer in number than erythrocytes; normally the blood has about 8000 of them per mm 3. In contrast to erythrocytes, leukocytes can move about under their own power with ameboid movement. Called also white cell or corpuscle and white blood cell or corpuscle. adj., adj leukocyt´ic. Leukocytes may be classified in two main groups: the granular leukocytes are the basophils, eosinophils, and neutrophils, and the nongranular leukocytes are the lymphocytes and monocytes.
Normal Urine. This article is a companion piece to an article on the meaning of white blood cell counts in blood analysis. The focus of this article is to explain the significance of leukocytes in a patient’s urine sample. White blood cells, or leukocytes, are involved in the body’s immune response to illnesses or injuries. 
White blood cells (WBCs), also called leukocytes or leucocytes, are the cells of the immune system that are involved in protecting the body against both infectious disease and foreign invaders. All leukocytes are produced and derived from a multipotent cell in the bone marrow known as a hematopoietic stem cell. Leukocytes are found throughout the body, including the blood and lymphatic system. Five different and diverse types of leukocytes exist. The number of leukocytes in the blood is often an indicator of disease, and thus the WBC count is an important subset of the complete blood count. The normal white cell count is usually between 4 and 11 × 10 9 /L. In the US this is usually expressed as 4,000–11,000 white blood cells per microliter of blood.
Leukocytes in urine are not a dangerous condition, but they are a sign that you are suffering from an infection or damage. Leukocytes are white blood cells (WBC) that work with the immune system to defend against infectious disease. Damage to the kidneys, ureters, urethra or bladder can cause leukocytes to appear. Bladder infections or inflammation of the urinary tract and ureters can also cause leukocytes to appear in the urine. Sexual intercourse can cause the transfer of bacteria that can cause an infection to form in the urinary tract.
(January 2010). Leukocytosis is a white blood cell count (the leukocyte count) above the normal range in the blood. It is frequently a sign of an inflammatory response, most commonly the result of infection, but may also occur following certain parasitic infections or bone tumors. 
There are five types of leukocytes. If a high level of a particular type of leukocyte is found in elevated levels, this can be a sign of disease. The body expels excess leukocytes when they have become damaged or killed fighting off an infection, causing them to be expelled in the urine. Bladder infections or inflammation of the urinary tract and ureters can also cause leukocytes to appear in the urine. Sexual intercourse can cause the transfer of bacteria that can cause an infection to form in the urinary tract.
A blockage in the urinary tract can cause leukocytes to appear in the urine. This is often accompanied by blood in the urine. Trauma to the pelvis, a pelvis tumor, bladder or kidney stones, unwanted objects in the urinary tract or prostate hypertrophy can cause a blockage that damages the urinary system. Bladder infections or inflammation of the urinary tract and ureters can also cause leukocytes to appear in the urine. Sexual intercourse can cause the transfer of bacteria that can cause an infection to form in the urinary tract.
Medical Definition of LEUKOCYTE. 1. : white blood cell. 2. : a cell (as a macrophage) of the tissues comparable to or derived from a leukocyte. Definition of LEUKOCYTE. : white blood cell. — leu·ko·cyt·ic \ˌlue-ˌlü-kə-ˈsi\ tik. Adjective see leukocyte defined for. kids