About Giffgaff. Giffgaff is another mobile virtual network operator-and, like Tesco Mobile, it uses O2's extensive network of mobile phone transmitters to ensure a decent signal. Giff gaff's tariffs are amongst the most competitive in the market. We provide easy access to the network coverage checkers for every major UK mobile phone network, including Giffgaff. Simply click on a network logo above to go directly to the coverage map. All data comes straight from the network website itself. Above the coverage map you'll see the logos of each network.
Make sure you can get a 4G signal. Giffgaff operates on O2’s network, and its 4G coverage is not as widespread as its 3G coverage. Before you pick which package you want, have a look to see if your area is covered by heading to giffgaff’s website to use the coverage checker. You can get 4G on giffgaff but, unlike other providers, you need to have specific 4G SIMs to get access to the 4G network. Currently, giffgaff offers three 4G packages, but does not offer any with unlimited data.
Instead, you can try a provider on a virtual network. Giffgaff, for example, borrows network space from O2 and so will give you exactly the same coverage. There are actually only four UK mobile networks – EE* , Three* , O2* and Vodafone* (check signal using Ofcom's Mobile Coverage Checker). Giffgaff users get access to the O2 network, for example, but don't get O2 Priority Moments. We've heard some reports of the signal strength not being as good on MVNO networks as it is on their parent networks but Ofcom has told us it should be exactly the same.
4G. Giffgaff also uses O 2 for its 4G mobile network but didn’t launch it until 2014. You have to buy 4G enabled goodybags to make use of the increased speeds. Giffgaff also only use the 800 MHz frequency but expect to cover 98% of the UK population by 2015.
Hooray. Welcome to our network checker and all things related to keeping you connected. Use our coverage tool below to see the 4G, 3G and 2G service in your area plus links to check maintenance or scheduled work that may impact your connection.
Giffgaff is on the O2 network. If you’re moving from O2 you will already know the limitations of the signal; otherwise you can check giffgaff’s coverage on its website, but bear in mind that 4G coverage is generally not as good as 3G. You can get 4G on giffgaff but, unlike other providers, you need to have specific 4G SIMs to get access to the 4G network. Currently, giffgaff offers three 4G packages, but does not offer any with unlimited data.
At launch, the first product was a prepaid SIM card providing all standard 2G and 3G mobile phone services, charged on a pay as you use basis. After launch, bundles of minutes, texts and data, called goodybags, were introduced. On 17 October 2012 Giffgaff added data only goodybags, called gigabags, to their lineup of products. In March 2014 Giffgaff announced that it would add a line of 4G LTE goodybags available for purchase from April 2014.
Giffgaff (stylized giffgaff) is a mobile telephone network running as a Mobile Virtual Network Operator (MVNO) using the United Kingdom O2 network. On 17 October 2012 Giffgaff added data only goodybags, called gigabags, to their lineup of products. In March 2014 Giffgaff announced that it would add a line of 4G LTE goodybags available for purchase from April 2014.
Giffgaff is a virtual network that runs on the O 2 network. You can check the Giffgaff coverage map to find out about the signal strength in your local area. You have to buy 4G enabled goodybags to make use of the increased speeds. Giffgaff also only use the 800 MHz frequency but expect to cover 98% of the UK population by 2015.