Only registered nurses can enter nurse practitioner programs. You can become an RN by completing a diploma program, which is a two-or three-year program from a hospital school of nursing, or by completing an associate degree program, which is a two-year program offered by many community colleges and some universities.
With several years of ER nursing experience and an advanced credential such as master’s degree in nursing, you can be promoted to the position of ER nurse manager. As of April 2015, the average annual salary for ER nurses was $65,000, according to the job site Indeed.
Get Certified. Although you can get ER nursing jobs as a new graduate with an RN license, obtaining the Certified Emergency Nurse certification from the Board of Certification for Emergency Nursing, or BCEN, improves your prospects.
As far as how to become an ER nurse, you apply once you graduate and you become an RN. Your actual training is all done on the job (OTJ) and most good ER's with good solid orientation programs will provide you with all the classes/certifications you need your first year or two.
An ER nurse is usually an registered nurse. However, there is a nursing shortage and some hospitals allow LPN or LVN to work in the ER under the direction of an RN. The requirements for a RN license can be completion of a 2 year associate degree in nursing, or completeion of 4 years in a BSN program. Either degree will allow you to take the nurse board examination. In the past hospitals required the nurse to work in ICU for 1 year prior to working in ER.
So, in the old days it would take at least 2 years working in the above units to be eligible to work in the ER. However, again because of the nursing shortage, hospitals are hiring nurses directly from nursing school to work in ICU and/or ER.
Become a Registered, Licensed Nurse. The road to becoming an ER nurse begins in nursing school, where you should earn a diploma or associate or bachelor’s degree in nursing. If you choose to pursue a baccalaureate program, be sure to take elective courses in ER-relevant areas such as pain management.