As most of you know, I conduct my business from my home office. Tons of women actively seek at-home-jobs, and I try to share those opportunities when I come across them. With that being said, I interviewed Michelle Vincent. She is a Level V Independent Executive Consultant at Rodan and Fields. Now, before I get into the interview, let me preface with the following.
Sell Rodan and Fields Products. Rodan and Fields was launched as a direct sales company in 2008 when its founders decided to pull out of department stores in 2007 and start offering a more personalized type of service. However, once you become a qualified consultant, you can start earning 25% on retail commissions. To become a qualified consultant, you need to spend at least $100 in Rodan and Fields products every month. What you purchase monthly from the company can be used as your product inventory for the month. In addition to your 25% retail profit, you can also earn 10% in consultant sponsorship commissions
Allows you to work part time along side a full time job or stay at home mom. Being a consultant allows you the flexibility to make as much as you want. You get out what you put into. Rodan + Fields Dermatologists. This is a preview of the Independent Consultant of Network Marketing job at Rodan + Fields Dermatologists. Network Marketing Business-Be Your Own Boss. Flexible Hours & Unlimited Earning Potential. As the creators of Proactiv® Solution, Dr. Katie Rodan and Dr. Kathy Fields revolutionized the treatment of acne. 
Rodan and Fields Business Kits and Tools. To help you launch your new skincare business, Rodan and Fields offers three types of business kits, all of which come with the tools and products you need to get started. However, once you become a qualified consultant, you can start earning 25% on retail commissions. To become a qualified consultant, you need to spend at least $100 in Rodan and Fields products every month. What you purchase monthly from the company can be used as your product inventory for the month. In addition to your 25% retail profit, you can also earn 10% in consultant sponsorship commissions
Details. Premier V Trip. Premier V Leaders who commit to achieving the Premier V Program will join the Rodan + Fields Home Office Team as we explore beautiful California wine country and our home town of San Francisco. Set your sights on the 2016 RF x Circle, the highest recognition available through Rodan + Fields, for exponential rewards, including an invitation to the 2016 RF x Circle incentive trip to the Greek Isles, Greece, the opportunity to shop from the RF x Circle Luxury Catalog and more. Details.
Getting Promoted with Rodan and Fields. Getting promoted in Rodan and Fields allows you to get paid on more levels-and we all want that! You get promoted when you help your team become Executive Consultants. First, you want to become an Executive Consultant (EC) yourself. This happens when you generate a minimum of $600 in level 1 sales volume in one 30 day period and fullfill your $100 in the CRP. This can occur a few different ways:
NO, In fact all the Rodan + Fields products are available to your customers through your personal website provided for you when you sign up to be a consultant. All the handling of products, monies, shipping and guarantees are taken care of for you through customer access to your website. Here are some highlights of the earning potentials, but check out the compensation plan for more information. 1  25% Retail Profit on the sale of Rodan + Fields skincare products. 2  15% Payment on Front Line Consultants. 3  5% Payment on Downlines 1-5. 4  Bonuses.
1 25% Retail Profit on the sale of Rodan + Fields skincare products. 2  15% Payment on Front Line Consultants. 3  You earn 15% of the revenue generated by yourself AND the consultants that YOU recruit. 4  5% Payment on Downlines 1-5. Here are some highlights of the earning potentials, but check out the compensation plan for more information. 1  25% Retail Profit on the sale of Rodan + Fields skincare products. 2  15% Payment on Front Line Consultants. 3  5% Payment on Downlines 1-5. 4  Bonuses.
Here are some highlights of the earning potentials, but check out the compensation plan for more information. 1  25% Retail Profit on the sale of Rodan + Fields skincare products. 2  15% Payment on Front Line Consultants. 3  You earn 15% of the revenue generated by yourself AND the consultants that YOU recruit. Here are some highlights of the earning potentials, but check out the compensation plan for more information. 1  25% Retail Profit on the sale of Rodan + Fields skincare products. 2  15% Payment on Front Line Consultants. 3  5% Payment on Downlines 1-5. 4  Bonuses.