You may have to update your Fitbit Android app in Google Play to access the new wireless sync features. You'll also have to open your Fitbit Devices menu and enable the Bluetooth sync option. Check out Fitbit's website for more on the wireless sync features and a list of all compatible devices. AS. I'm a big fan of Fitbit, and I never leave home without my Fitbit Zip. CIO.com blogger James A. Martin has been covering Fitbit and other similar fitness trackers frequently in recent days. And I just had a conversation with CIO.com Editorial Director Brian Carlson this morning about Fitbit.
Fitbit is a company based out of San Francisco, California United States that focuses on fitness and activity trackers. Many of the trackers are worn on the wrist like a bracelet. However, earlier models like the Fitbit One can clip onto pants or shirt lapels. The trackers can sync to a Fitbit mobile app found on iOS, Android, Windows, and Windows Phone. Fitbit trackers keep count of steps taken, length of nightly sleep, floors climbed, and distance traveled. Heart rate monitoring is also available in two models, the Charge HR and Surge. 
On the go or at your desk, your Fitbit dashboard is with you all the time. See all your achievement badges, analyze your charts and graphs with ease, and get instant access to the Fitbit community-all in one place. It's fun and free (and you don't even need a tracker to use it).
As with most Windows Phone apps, you will also be able to view Fitbit data via the Live Tiles on the Start screen, which saves you from having to launch the app itself. The native app will let you sync your Fitbit device directly with your smartphone, displaying stats from any Fitbit wireless tracker, including steps, distance, calories, active minutes, floors climbed and sleep quality.
The Fitbit app for Android is available for the Samsung Galaxy SIII and Samsung Note II, with more devices to come. Fitbit’s Bluetooth 4.0 will be available in the Google Play marketplace and for all international markets. Another update will bring the sync time down to 10 seconds. The FitBit app is currently compatible with the Samsung Galaxy S III and the Note II, but more devices should be added to the compatibility list in the near future. If you own a FitBit product, download the latest app update and let us know what you think of the new Bluetooth 4.0 syncing functionality
Also, new to this Android app update is NFC compatibility, making the app even easier to use for owners of Flex. Simply tap your Flex band on your Android phone and it will automatically launch the Fitbit Android app. Another update will bring the sync time down to 10 seconds. The FitBit app is currently compatible with the Samsung Galaxy S III and the Note II, but more devices should be added to the compatibility list in the near future. If you own a FitBit product, download the latest app update and let us know what you think of the new Bluetooth 4.0 syncing functionality
that's everywhere you want it. On the go or at your desk, your Fitbit dashboard is with you all the time. See all your achievement badges, analyze your charts and graphs with ease, and get instant access to the Fitbit community-all in one place. It's fun and free (and you don't even need a tracker to use it). GET STARTED.
You'll also have to open your Fitbit Devices menu and enable the Bluetooth sync option. Check out Fitbit's website for more on the wireless sync features and a list of all compatible devices. I'm a big fan of Fitbit, and I never leave home without my Fitbit Zip. CIO.com blogger James A. Martin has been covering Fitbit and other similar fitness trackers frequently in recent days. And I just had a conversation with CIO.com Editorial Director Brian Carlson this morning about Fitbit.
18 new devices added in latest update. Fitbit has expanded the sync capabilities of their wearable fitness trackers, and now 44 Android and iOS devices are fully supported.