Salaries by Aircraft. Pilot salaries naturally vary according the type of aircraft that they’re flying. The median annual salary for the pilot of a large jet is an impressive $121,408. For a small jet, the median annual salary is $104,219. Non-jet aircraft pilots make significantly less. The pilot of a large non-jet aircraft earns a median annual salary of just $79,106. For a small non-jet, the median annual salary is $85,418. Starting Salaries. Airline pilot salaries start low at about $20,000 a year, and most airlines pay hourly. The average airline pilot logs 75 hours a month in the air and 150 hours a month performing ground duties.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Aircraft Mechanic (Jet) in the United States is $78,060 so 50% of the people who perform the job of Aircraft Mechanic (Jet) in the United States are expected to make less than $78,060. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Median $78,060. 1  Salary. The annual salary for someone with the job title Aircraft Mechanic (Jet) may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education.
Here you can see the average salary for the job you entered, based on our most recent job adverts. Our salary calculator also lets you view the highest and lowest salaries recently offered for that job, and how your current salary compares. You can search for jobs within your industry at any time. Alternatively, our browse jobs section allows you to find relevant roles and careers. If you have a particular employer in mind, you should check out our A-Z of employers to see who's hiring right now.
Find LSA jobs. You can search for jobs within your industry at any time. Alternatively, our browse jobs section allows you to find relevant roles and careers. If you have a particular employer in mind, you should check out our A-Z of employers to see who's hiring right now.
First officers on this aircraft can aspire to$70,000 as the high, $50,000 average and $38,000 the low.Regional airline turboprop captains in the left seat of a BombardierDash 8-Q400 can hope to be paid a high salary of $101,000, average$87,000 and the low annual figure is $69,000. 74 PROFESSIONAL PILOT / June 2012 s we bring our collected find-ings to the pages of this Jun2012 Pro Pilot we note this isthe 40th anniversary edition of ProPilot ’s Salary Study. Over the yearswe’ve developed a system of send-ing out and sifting through returnedsurvey forms plus contacting variousflight departments.
High: The typical high-end salary you can expect for this kind of job, based on last month's job ads. Average: This is the 'median', or middle salary, from a list of last month's related job ads. Low: The typical low-range salary for this kind of job, again based on last month's job ads. You can search for jobs within your industry at any time. Alternatively, our browse jobs section allows you to find relevant roles and careers. If you have a particular employer in mind, you should check out our A-Z of employers to see who's hiring right now.
lsa associates salary lsa associates average salary is $ 58709 median salary is $ 58100 with a salary range from $ 40950 to $ 86450 lsa associates salaries are collected from government agencies and companies each salary is associated with a real job position lsa associates salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only 
salary results for lsa in london here you can see the average salary for the job you entered based on our most recent job adverts our salary calculator also lets you view the highest and lowest salaries recently offered for that job and how your current salary compares clicking on top salaries will provide you with a breakdown of salaries based on industry and location high the typical high end salary you can expect for this kind of job based on last month s job ads average this is the median or middle salary from a list of last month s related job ads low the typical low range salary for this kind of job again
average pega lsa salaries for job postings in somerset nj are 36 % higher than average pega lsa salaries for job postings nationwide 