Calling all hummingbirds! A favorite cut flower for its long vase life and fragrance, Snapdragon seeds will bring you strong-stemmed spikes tightly packed with blooms. Easy to grow, Snapdragons are excellent in beds, edgings and containers.
Plant snapdragon in early spring, a few weeks before your region's last frost date. Deadhead regularly for best bloom and fertilize regularly. Snapdragons often self-seed in the landscape if not deadheaded, so they come back year after year, though the colors from hybrid plants will often will be muddy looking. They get their name from the fact that you can gently squeeze the sides of the intricately shaped flower and see the jaws of a dragon head snap closed. The blooms come in gorgeous colors, including some with beautiful color variations on each flower. Plus, snapdragons are an outstanding cut flower.
Beautiful trailing snapdragon with strong, flexible stems, full dense growth. Use in pots (1 plant per 6 inch pot) and hanging baskets, or as a heavy flowering seasonal ground cover. Colors include deep purple, orange, red, rose, white, and yellow. Plants grow 6-8 inches tall and spread 12-18 inches across. Packet is 10 multi-pelleted seeds, 3-5 seeds inside each pellet.
Add old-fashioned charm and bright color to your garden or containers with snapdragons (Antirrhinum majus). In U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 9 to 11 snapdragons are perennial, while in zones 5 to 7 they may live a second season with winter protection. The plants, which grow in more than 200 varieties, can range from 6 inches to 3 feet tall depending on the cultivar you choose
Scrophulariaceae Family. Dwarf snapdragons are easy to grow from seed and are best grown in masses as bedding plants. The spikes are too short for cut flower arrangements. Flowers may be classic (having two puffed petals that look like stacked berets) or azalea-flowered (fringed or ruffled). 
Buy snapdragon seeds. Snapdragons grow as thick, one to three-foot tall spikes adorned with colorful flowers. Different varieties produce flowers in different colors, so choose the one that works best with your flower garden's color scheme. Start the seeds indoors six to eight weeks before the last frost. Snapdragons are easiest to grow from seed indoors in early spring. Prepare seedling pots with seed substrate (rather than regular potting soil). Scatter the seeds on the surface of the substrate and press lightly.
SONNET PINK Snapdragon Seeds. Each sturdy, bushy, early blooming, 18-20 inch tall plant produces a sturdy, bubblegum pink, central flower spike, quickly followed by lavish, long stemmed, flowering side shoots. 'Sonnet Pink' is a knock-out in beds or borders and one of the very best snapdragons for cutting. Use in pots (1 plant per 6 inch pot) and hanging baskets, or as a heavy flowering seasonal ground cover. Colors include deep purple, orange, red, rose, white, and yellow. Plants grow 6-8 inches tall and spread 12-18 inches across. Packet is 10 multi-pelleted seeds, 3-5 seeds inside each pellet.
BRONZE DRAGON Snapdragon Seeds. Vigorous, disease resistant, dwarf 12 inch tall plants with striking, deep burgundy to near black foliage, are topped by purple and white, bicolor blooms. Bronze Dragon is showy, even before it flowers! An outstanding variety for containers, or at the front of borders. Use in pots (1 plant per 6 inch pot) and hanging baskets, or as a heavy flowering seasonal ground cover. Colors include deep purple, orange, red, rose, white, and yellow. Plants grow 6-8 inches tall and spread 12-18 inches across. Packet is 10 multi-pelleted seeds, 3-5 seeds inside each pellet.
LUCKY LIPS Snapdragon Seeds. Breathtaking, large, bicolor white and deep rose-red flowers on strong, well-branched 2 foot plants make Lucky Lips an outstanding cut flower and a stunning addition to your garden borders. Use in pots (1 plant per 6 inch pot) and hanging baskets, or as a heavy flowering seasonal ground cover. Colors include deep purple, orange, red, rose, white, and yellow. Plants grow 6-8 inches tall and spread 12-18 inches across. Packet is 10 multi-pelleted seeds, 3-5 seeds inside each pellet.