How to Boot and Install Linux on a UEFI PC With Secure Boot. New Windows PCs come with UEFI firmware and Secure Boot enabled. Secure Boot prevents operating systems from booting unless they’re... [Read Article]. The UEFI settings screen allows you to disable Secure Boot, a useful security feature that prevents malware from hijacking Windows or another installed operating system. New Windows 8 PCs don’t include the traditional BIOS. They use UEFI firmware instead, just as Macs have for years. How you go about doing common system tasks has changed. If you’re interested in why UEFI is replacing the BIOS, take a look at our overview of UEFI and how it’s different from
UEFI is short for Unified Extensible Firmware Interface. It’s an advanced interface standard of firmware for operating system compared to legacy BIOS, such as it supports fast PC startup, bootable GPT hard drive, larger capacity more than 2T etc. Almost all recent PCs are EFI/UEFI. The UEFI specification is managed by the Unified EFI Forum. Since UEFI-based computers have bootable information written in their motherboards, you may need to set related hard drive information into your target computer after migrating to a new hard disk.
The days of the good ol’ BIOS are numbered. The Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) will introduce a more powerful solution able to better cope with the demands of today’s diverse hardware. In a nutshell, UEFI is an interface that takes care of handing over the pre-boot environment to the operating system. 
Part of the Hardware glossary: Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI) is a specification for a software program that connects a computer's firmware to its operating system (OS). UEFI is expected to eventually replace BIOS. Like BIOS, UEFI is installed at the time of manufacturing and is the first program that runs when a computer is turned on. The Unified Extensible Firmware Interface is managed by a group of chipset, hardware, system, firmware, and operating system vendors called the UEFI Forum.The specification is most often pronounced by naming the letters U-E-F-I.
To specify if a computer is in UEFI mode, you can make use of the Windows Disk Management tool. If the type of the hard drive where system partition resides is GPT, like the above picture shows (EFI System Partition), your computer is in UEFI mode. The UEFI specification is managed by the Unified EFI Forum. Since UEFI-based computers have bootable information written in their motherboards, you may need to set related hard drive information into your target computer after migrating to a new hard disk.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The EFI System partition (ESP) is a partition on a data storage device (usually a hard disk drive or solid-state drive) that is used by computers adhering to the Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI). 
UEFI is a community effort by many companies in the personal-computer industry to modernize the booting process. UEFI capable systems are already shipping, and many more are in preparation. During the transition to UEFI, most platform firmware will continue to support legacy (BIOS) booting as well, to accommodate legacy-only operating systems. UEFI stands for Unified Extensible Firmware Interface
The Unified Extensible Firmware Interface (UEFI, pronounced as an initialism U-E-F-I or like unify without the n) is a specification that defines a software interface between an operating system and platform firmware. Booting UEFI systems from GPT-partitioned disks is commonly called UEFI-GPT booting. It is also common for a UEFI implementation to include a menu-based user interface to the boot manager, allowing the user to manually select the desired operating system (or system utility) from a list of available boot options.
Short for Unified Extensible Firmware Interface, UEFI is a specification that defines a more modernized model for the interface between computer operating systems and platform firmware during the boot, or start-up, process. 