Really, the plane is as safe as the people flying it. And because of all these global improvements in the industry, I can’t think of a single airline I wouldn’t fly on. Many, many airlines have safety records on par with any European or U.S. mainstream carrier. 
Regional airlines are airlines that operate regional aircraft to provide passenger air service to communities without sufficient demand to attract mainline service. 
Note on the carriage of marijuana on board our aircraft: Please be aware that SeaPort Airlines operates under federal aviation regulations; carriage of marijuana on board the aircraft is prohibited under federal aviation regulations in all states. For questions regarding this policy please call 888-573-2767.... If you're looking for a leader in the aviation industry--an airline with reputable customer service, SeaPort Airlines is your first stop for air fare at a reasonable price.
There are 7 passenger airlines to choose from that fly domestically within South Africa. The bigger airlines fly between all the major cities, and the smaller airlines connect passengers to the smaller cities and towns. Passengers need to check in an hour before departure for all domestic flights. All 7 major carriers offer online booking, with credit card or EFT (electronic funds transfer) options. 
The safety rating for each airline is based on a comprehensive analysis utilising information from the world's aviation governing body and leading association along with governments and crash data. Each airline has the potential to earn seven stars. For more information see the disclaimer. 
1 Unaccompanied minors can only travel on nonstop flights operated by United or United Express®. 2  United does not offer unaccompanied minor service to or from other airlines' flights. 3  Children younger than 5 years of age are not accepted as unaccompanied minors. Special restrictions. 1 
1 United does not offer unaccompanied minor service to or from other airlines' flights. 2  Children younger than 5 years of age are not accepted as unaccompanied minors. 3  Children 5 to 11 years of age who are traveling alone must use our unaccompanied minor service and pay the applicable service charge. Special restrictions. 1  Unaccompanied minors can only travel on nonstop flights operated by United or United Express®. 2  United does not offer unaccompanied minor service to or from other airlines' flights. 3
Passengers connecting to domestic flights from an international flight generally must take their checked luggage through customs and re-check their luggage at the domestic airline counter, requiring extra time in the process. An international airport is an airport that offers customs and immigration facilities for passengers travelling between countries.
About the connecting flight, It all depends if you booked a flight and the airline flew you on a connecting flight, if you are, then you wouldn't have to worry about it, the baggage gets transferred to the other plane to go to your final destination, and you don't have to check in again. In that case you have to get your bags, clear customs, re-check your bags (or at least drop them off at specific location, depending on the airport), and clear security again. When the airline tells you to check in 2 hours before departure, they mean it regardless of whether you're checking bags or not.
The exception would be if you have an international flight, and are making the connection in a different country than you started in, then you may have to clear customs at the connecting airport rather than the final destination. In that case you have to get your bags, clear customs, re-check your bags (or at least drop them off at specific location, depending on the airport), and clear security again. When the airline tells you to check in 2 hours before departure, they mean it regardless of whether you're checking bags or not.