Premiums. There is a monthly premium for Part B coverage; for most people it is $104.90 in 2015. If your income is $85,000 or more if you’re single, or $170,000 or more if you’re married, you’ll pay more. The higher your income, the higher your premium. Your Part B premium is usually deducted from your Social Security check. 
Medicare Part B costs. You’ll pay both a monthly premium and a yearly deductible for Medicare Part B. In 2015, most people will pay $104.90 for their monthly premium and $147 for the yearly deductible. You may have to pay a higher premium if your income is above a certain amount
There’s also a yearly deductible of $147 in 2015. After you pay $147 yourself, your benefits kick in. After that, Medicare will pay 80% of the cost of most Part B services, and you (or your Medigap policy) pay the other 20%. 1 Medical and other services. 2  Medicare Part B pays 80% of most doctor's services, outpatient treatments, and durable medical equipment (like oxygen or wheelchairs). 3  You pay the other 20%. 4  Medicare also pays for mental health care costs.
Part A is your hospital coverage. Premium costs. If you or your spouse worked for at least 10 years and paid Medicare taxes, you won't pay any monthly fee, called a premium, for Part A. Most people don’t pay a premium. The deductible is the amount you must pay before Medicare pays anything for your care. For 2015, the deductible for each hospital stay is $1260. Copay costs. You also pay copays for Part A. It's a set amount you pay for specific types of care.
You pay a premium each month for Medicare Part B (Medical Insurance). Most people will pay the standard premium amount. However, if your modified adjusted gross income as reported on your IRS tax return from 2 years ago is above a certain amount, you may pay an Income Related Monthly Adjustment Amount (IRMAA). IRMAA is an extra charge added to your premium.
Social Security will contact some people who have to pay more depending on their income. The amount you pay can change each year depending on your income. If you have to pay a higher amount for your Part B premium and you disagree (for example, if your income goes down), use this form to contact Social Security. Most people will pay the standard premium amount. However, if your modified adjusted gross income as reported on your IRS tax return from 2 years ago is above a certain amount, you may pay an Income Related Monthly Adjustment Amount (IRMAA). IRMAA is an extra charge added to your premium.
After your deductible is met, you typically pay 20% of the Medicare-approved amount for most doctor services (including most doctor services while you're a hospital inpatient), outpatient therapy, and durable medical equipment. Some people automatically get Part B. Learn how and when you can sign up for Part B. Most people will pay the standard premium amount. However, if your modified adjusted gross income as reported on your IRS tax return from 2 years ago is above a certain amount, you may pay an Income Related Monthly Adjustment Amount (IRMAA). IRMAA is an extra charge added to your premium.
Medicare Part B. Part B is for your doctor visits, tests, and other services. Premium costs: Each month you pay a premium of $104.90. If your income is higher than $85,000, you have to pay a higher premium. How much you make determines how much you pay, ranging from $146.90 to $335.70. The deductible is the amount you must pay before Medicare pays anything for your care. For 2015, the deductible for each hospital stay is $1260. Copay costs. You also pay copays for Part A. It's a set amount you pay for specific types of care.