Full Definition of ESTUARY. : a water passage where the tide meets a river current; especially: an arm of the sea at the lower end of a river. See estuary defined for English-language learners. See estuary defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Estuaries form a transition zone between river environments and ocean environments and are subject to both marine influences, such as tides, waves, and the influx of saline water; and riverine influences, such as flows of fresh water and sediment. 
Meaning: The wide part of a river where it nears the sea; fresh and salt water mix. Classified under: Nouns denoting natural objects (not man-made). Hypernyms (estuary is a kind of...): body of water; water (the part of the earth's surface covered with water (such as a river or lake or ocean)). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of ... • ESTUARY (noun). The noun ESTUARY has 1 sense: 1. the wide part of a river where it nears the sea; fresh and salt water mix. Familiarity information: ESTUARY used as a noun is very rare.
An estuary is a partly enclosed coastal body of brackish water with one or more rivers or streams flowing into it, and with a free connection to the open sea. Estuaries form a transition zone between river environments and maritime environments. This broad definition also includes fjords, lagoons, river mouths, and tidal creeks. An estuary is a dynamic ecosystem with a connection with the open sea through which the sea water enters with the rhythm of the tides. The sea water entering the estuary is diluted by the fresh water flowing from rivers and stream
The tidal mouth of a large river, where the tide meets the stream. Example sentences. Synonyms. 1  The turtles spend most of their lives in mangrove-lined tidal estuaries, where rivers flow into the sea. 2  It is a land of undulating hills and hollows, dips and drumlins, rivers, inlets, estuaries and lakes, dotted with homes and barns. The term Estuary English was coined by David Rosewarne in 1984 for an accent which developed along the Thames Estuary from London English and which has rapidly become the dominant urban accent in southern England.
Transitions of land to sea and fresh water to salt water. Include shallow open waters, freshwater and salt marshes, swamps, and sandy beaches Effects of Wetland Loss and Estuary Degradation Results in many things such as: Loss or degradation of habitat and plant and animal diversity. Deterioration of water quality
Water quality degradation is mostly a result of diffuse-source contaminants and the spatial and temporal variability associated with these sources. Diffuse pollution is far more difficult to identify and control than point-source pollution, as highlighted in the conference on diffuse pollution we hosted, DipCon 2011. Causes and effects of water quality degradation. Understanding and predicting the sources of contaminants, developing technologies to clean up the sources, and understanding the consequences of water quality degradation for aquatic ecosystems and human use of waterways.