Station of the Fetus. Station refers to how far down the baby's head has descended into the mother's pelvis. The birth canal is shaped like a cone, curving underneath and behind the pubic bone. Its narrowest section lies between two bony landmarks of the pelvis (one on either side), called the ischial spines. When the baby's head is at zero station, the largest part of the head has entered the bony pelvis. Until the baby's head is at least at zero station, the baby hasn't completely entered the pelvis.
Definition of Term Pregnancy. ABSTRACT: In the past, the period from 3 weeks before until 2 weeks after the estimated date of delivery was considered “term,” with the expectation that neonatal outcomes from deliveries in this interval were uniform and good. 
Then, the position of the presenting part, i.e., that part of the baby (hopefully, the top of the head) that will be the first to deliver, is felt as compared to the ischial spines. If the very top of the head is at the ischial spines, it's called a zero station. And for every centimeter distance from the spines, either above or below, the presenting part can be said to be anywhere between -3 and +3. -3 is 3 cm. above the ischial spines. 
Engagement: The sensation that a pregnant woman feels when the lowermost part of the fetus descends and is engaged in the mother's pelvis, an event that typically occurs 2 to 3 weeks before labor begins. 
Labor And Birth No comments. Station is a term used to describe the descent of the baby into the pelvis. An imaginary line is drawn between the two bones in the pelvis (known as ischial spines). This is the zero line, and when the baby reaches this line it is considered to be in zero station.. When the baby is above this imaginary line it is in a minus station. When the baby is below, it is in a plus station. Stations are measured from -5 at the pelvic inlet to +4 at the pelvic outlet. Station is an integral part of something known as the Bishop’s Score.
Stillbirth-Death of baby before it is born, after 20 weeks of pregnancy. ~ s-The term is used to describe how far the baby has dropped. A '-3 ~ ' means that the baby's head is not yet in the pelvis. '0 ~ ' means that the head has entered the maternal pelvis and is at the level of the ischial spines. 
the level of the biparietal plane of the fetal head relative to the level of the ischial spines of the maternal pelvis. An imaginary plane at the level of the spines is designated zero station.. Higher and lower stations are numbered at intervals of 1 cm and labeled as minus above and plus below. For example, station minus three is 3 cm above the spines, and station plus two is 2 cm below the spines. In breech presentation, the bitrochanteric diameter of the breech is used to determine station.
Gabrielle Volkmer. birth education, birth, pregnancy. The term fetal station can be a hard term to grasp and truly understand. Let’s dig into this often poorly explained mystery and see if we can outline some clear, hard facts and demystify the definition. Station refers to how far down the baby's head has descended into the mother's pelvis. It is measured from -5 to +5
For example, the baby is said to be at a +2 station when the head is two centimeters below the plane defined by the ischial spines and the pubic bone. When the baby's head is at zero station, the largest part of the head has entered the bony pelvis. Until the baby's head is at least at zero station, the baby hasn't completely entered the pelvis.
In obstetrics, station refers to descent of the fetal presenting part (hopefully the head) in the pelvis. An imaginary line is drawn between the two bones in the pelvis (known as ischial spines). This is the “zero” line, and when the baby reaches this line it is considered to be in “zero station.” When the baby is above this imaginary line it is in a minus station. When the baby is below, it is in a “plus” station. Stations are measured from -5 at the pelvic inlet to +4 at the pelvic outlet.