Our all natural pork chorizo is crafted with few ingredients in line with our less is more philosophy and boasts a genuine flavor profile that will take your taste buds on a trip to Spain. This smokey, tangy rope will add some zing to your meals-in a breakfast omelette or a dinner stew. Not only that, but many people, especially children are allergic to these additives and preservatives causing mental and physical health problems. Food intolerances are related to the weakening of the immune system. When the weaknesses become chronic, that is when an allergy may develop.
Finding a gluten free sausage (breakfast, patties, links, bratwurst, Italian, Polish, etc.) that doesn’t contain any glutenous ingredients is pretty easy. Just stroll down your local grocery store meat section and you’ll be sure to find the perfect sausage that’s free of any gluten or gluten containing ingredients. 
Directions: Brown chorizo and onion for 5-10 minutes in a 12-inch frying pan, breaking up sausage with spoon into desirable bites. Drain and reserve 2-3 tablespoons of the fat in the pan. In the same pan, add black beans and chilies and cook over medium heat until gently simmering. Return chorizo and onions back to the pan. Using the back of a ladle or large spoon, gently press 4 wells and crack and egg into each, leaving yolks intact. Reduce heat to medium-low, cover and cook 4-5 more minutes. Top with crumbled cheese, tomato, avocado slices and cilantro.
While there may not be much gluten in the soy sauce, the fact that it is still derived from wheat and is therefore created in a facility WITH wheat, then in my mind there is the possibility of cross contamination, which I choose to avoid. For me, just a grain is enough to cause neurological problems. I had read this about Kikkoman soy sauce when I was diagnosed with celiac disease a few months ago and have been eating foods with soy sauce without problems. At home, I use SAN J Tamari sauce which is labeled as gluten-free.
Celiac.com Sponsors: The finished Mexican eggs with chorizo. Photo: CC-nyaa_birdies_perch. I like to think of eggs as a “chameleon food;” dress them up any which way you’d like, and they make an excellent breakfast, lunch, or dinner. The same goes for this spicy. Mexican spin on ordinary sausage and eggs. Return chorizo and onions back to the pan. Using the back of a ladle or large spoon, gently press 4 wells and crack and egg into each, leaving yolks intact. Reduce heat to medium-low, cover and cook 4-5 more minutes. Top with crumbled cheese, tomato, avocado slices and cilantro.
Boulder Sausage is committed to producing the highest quality sausage you will be proud to serve your family and friends. We are pleased to announce that Boulder Sausage has been granted gluten-free certification by the Gluten-Free Certification Organization (GFCO), a program of the Gluten Intolerance Group. Our boldly seasoned gluten-free sausages can be served on their own or as part of a hearty dinner recipe. Since we use only all natural, top-quality spices in our sausages, you can enjoy a lean and delicious sausage that is free from gluten and other preservatives.
A: El Popular Mexican Chorizo is an ingredient made from pork or beef. It is a unique flavor enhancer that can be used in various recipes. There are many different types of Chorizos; there is a significant difference between a Mexican-style Chorizo and a Spanish-style Chorizo. El Popular Chorizo is a Traditional Authentic Mexican-style Chorizo. Mexican Chorizo vs. Spanish Chorizo: Mexican Chorizo is an ingredient. It is a fine grind sausage, with the appearance and consistency of ground beef, and is prepared by stir-frying. The chili peppers used in manufacturing Chorizo are grown and milled in New Mexico to our company’s strict specifications. A: El Popular Mexican Chorizo is available in various flavors. The “Original” recipe is the #1 selling Chorizo.
A: El Popular Chorizo does not contain any artificial colors or flavoring. The chili peppers used in manufacturing Chorizo are grown and milled in New Mexico to our company’s strict specifications. A: El Popular Mexican Chorizo is available in various flavors. The “Original” recipe is the #1 selling Chorizo.
Best Answer: Unless it's marked that it's gluten free then I would think it could have gluten in it, because there is a chance something being used as flavor or fill has it. 
Many stores today have entirely too many products on their shelves with artificial ingredients. Not only that, but many people, especially children are allergic to these additives and preservatives causing mental and physical health problems. Food intolerances are related to the weakening of the immune system. When the weaknesses become chronic, that is when an allergy may develop.