Before you use anything, try this. Seasonal Blotchy Skin. Extreme temperatures can cause skin to break out in a heat rash, which can cause blotchy skin to appear on the face, chest, and neck. High winds can also cause these blotchy patches, especially on days that are dry.
Body Heat. The most likely cause of red blotchy skin is an increase in body heat. During times of intense stress and anxiety, your body heat rises, and this releases a chemical inside of your body known as histamine-the same immune system chemical that is released during an allergic reaction.
Another skin condition that may be at the root of your red blotchy face is eczema. Eczema is what we call any inflammatory skin condition or dermatitis, and it can appear because of several different causes. In all its forms it appears as an itchy, red and bumpy rash that may have weeping, scaly and crusty lesions.
The Causes and Treatments of Blotchy Skin. Millions of men and women all over the world suffer from blotchy skin. These patches of red, and sometimes irritated or itchy, skin can appear anywhere on the body, but they are most commonly found on the arms, neck, and face. These blotchy patches can be caused by a variety of factors, such as weather, genetics, allergies, or environmental conditions.
The most common cause of red blotches on skin is dermatitis, which is a broad term that describes various types of skin irritation. For example, dermatitis can be caused by harsh soaps, such as some dish and laundry soaps; environmental pollution, such as excessive dust; or by extreme weather conditions.
Blotchy Skin Explained. Blotchiness and uneven skin tone can be due to many factors including sun exposure and heredity. You may see red, white or dark patches on your skin. These blotchy patches of skin may become more visible when dead surface skin is not regularly exfoliated.
Rash. Blotchy skin (symptom description): Blotchy skin is listed as a type of or related-symptom for symptom Rash. Blotchy skin (symptom description): For a medical symptom description of 'Blotchy skin', the following symptom information may be relevant to the symptoms: Rash (type of symptom). However, note that other causes of the symptom 'Blotchy skin' may be possible.