Deadpool, also known as Wade Wilson, is a mercenary and anti-hero appearing in comic books published by Marvel Comics. He was created by comic book artist Rob Liefeld, and writer Fabian Nicieza. He made his first appearance in the comic The New Mutants Issue #98, Feb. 1991. He also has two voices in his head that he converses with regularly. Deadpool speaks using his yellow speech balloons, the first voice talks with a yellow box with handwritten text, and the second voice uses a white box with typed-in text.
Official Photos ». Ryan Rodney Reynolds was born on October 23, 1976 in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, the youngest of four children. His father, Jim, was a food wholesaler and his mother, Tammy, was a retail-store saleswoman
Deadpool (Wade Wilson) is a fictional antihero appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by writer Fabian Nicieza and artist/writer Rob Liefeld, the character first appeared in The New Mutants #98 (February 1991). Created by writer Fabian Nicieza and artist/writer Rob Liefeld, Deadpool made his first appearance in the pages of The New Mutants #98, cover dated February 1991.
Deadpool is a disfigured and mentally unstable mercenary with the superhuman ability of an accelerated healing factor. He is known as the Merc with a Mouth because of his talkative nature and tendency to break the fourth wall, which is used by writers to create humorous effect. Ryan Reynolds portrayed the character in the 2009 film X-Men Origins: Wolverine and will reprise the role in the upcoming 2016 film Deadpool. Created by writer Fabian Nicieza and artist/writer Rob Liefeld, Deadpool made his first appearance in the pages of The New Mutants #98, cover dated February 1991.
Early Years Edit. Deadpool was secretly a disco partier and loved to disco all night. Some of his favorite dance moves are the whip and the nae nae. Deadpool secretly helped Obama come to power and was responsible for Bin Laden's murder. So Wade Wilson, his final alter ego, was followed. More on Marvel.com: http://marvel.com/universe/Deadpool_(Wade_Wilson)#ixzz2XNuoFw60. It is revealed that he was a fair haired youth, who was as cocky as ever, saying anything to get the ladies. A bully sneaks up and pantses him revealing the pink undergarments of his moth
Wade Wilson's early life is mostly unknown. His mother died of cancer while he was young and his father (who was in the military) was physically abusive. Wade was a deliquent in his teenage years, possibly to spite his father. Due to the presence of this superhuman healing ability, many of Deadpool's natural physical attributes have been enhanced. Deadpool's musculature generates considerably less fatigue toxins than the muscles of an ordinary human being, granting him superhuman levels of stamina in all physical activities.
Childhood: Edit. Wade was born in unrevealed location in Canada. His mother died of cancer while he was young and his father (who was in prison for 50 years, then died) was physically abusive. In his early teenage years, Wade was having sexual intercourse with his 12 year old girlfriend. So Wade Wilson, his final alter ego, was followed. More on Marvel.com: http://marvel.com/universe/Deadpool_(Wade_Wilson)#ixzz2XNuoFw60. It is revealed that he was a fair haired youth, who was as cocky as ever, saying anything to get the ladies. A bully sneaks up and pantses him revealing the pink undergarments of his mother
Deadpool, also known as Wade Wilson, is a mercenary and anti-hero appearing in comic books published by Marvel Comics. Wade Wilson was born and raised in Canada. After attempting and failing to commit suicide, Wilson was drafted into a secret government training program. Underneath his costume, Deadpool is scarred and deformed (which is the reason why he keeps his mask on). His appearance varies from being rigid, lumpy, scarred, or exposed muscle and bone. However, this could be justified due to the fact his healing factor has his body in a constant state of flux.