Page Content. Mechanical equipment (plant, machinery and hand-held power tools) can cause serious injuries, including open wounds, fractures and amputations. Some injuries can result in death. Sprains and strains often result when mechanical equipment is used incorrectly. The most common mechanical equipment injuries are to hands and fingers, which may be cut, sprained, dislocated, broken, crushed or cut off by machinery or tools. Eye injuries can be caused by heat or radiation or by objects thrown from moving mechanical parts. Key Point.
The kinds of equipment that are classified under the headings of heating, air conditioning, plumbing, electrical work and gasfitting. 
This unique coverage is a type of home warranty that extends to many of your essential home systems and personal property. It’s homeowners appliance insurance that provides protection in the event of an unexpected mechanical or electrical breakdown not caused by normal wear and tear or corrosion. 
Refrigeration System Equipment Room Design The purpose of this newsletter is to provide interim guidance to designers of mechanical equipment rooms housing chillers that employ refrigerants classified by ASHRAE Standard 34-1992. Publication of that manual will obsolete this newsletter. The focus of this newsletter is on changes to mechanical equipment room design requirements brought on by a change from CFC- 7 1 to the alternative HCFC-123 in centrifugal chillers.
Mechanical room in a large office building. A mechanical room or a boiler room is a room or space in a building dedicated to the mechanical equipment and its associated electrical equipment, as opposed to rooms intended for human occupancy or storage. Modern buildings use control systems to manage HVAC cycles, lighting, communications, and life safety equipment. Often, the control system hardware is located in the mechanical room and monitored or accessed remotely.
A: To be sure, mechanical rooms are designed to house mechanical equipment, and storage should not obstruct access to the mechanical equipment. According to the 2000 edition of the LSC, storage in mechanical rooms is not prohibited, however there are some requirements that you must meet. The mechanical room must not contain any open flame or fossil-fuel fired heating equipment. The items stored in the mechanical room must be orderly and neat.
The purpose of the mechanical room is to house mechanical equipment and when storage interferes with this objective, that’s when problems begin. Some organizations have portioned-off sections that prevent stored items from obstructing access to mechanical equipment. According to the 2000 edition of the LSC, storage in mechanical rooms is not prohibited, however there are some requirements that you must meet. The mechanical room must not contain any open flame or fossil-fuel fired heating equipment. The items stored in the mechanical room must be orderly and neat.
In active solar energy special solar heating equipment is used to convert solar energy to heat energy whereas in passive solar energy the mechanical equipment is not present. Active solar include the use of mechanical equipment like photovoltaic cells, solar thermal collectors or pumps and fans to trap the solar energy. Passive solar technologies convert solar energy to heat energy without use of active mechanical systems.
An electrical machine is the generic name for a device that converts mechanical energy to electrical energy, converts electrical energy to mechanical energy, or changes alternating current from one voltage level to a different voltage level. The word machine derives from the Latin word machina, which in turn derives from the Greek (Doric μαχανά makhana, Ionic μηχανή mekhane contrivance, machine, engine, a derivation from μῆχος mekhos means, expedient, remedy). A wider meaning of fabric, structure is found in classical Latin, but not in Greek usage.