The above fee is non-refundable and non transferable. The visa fee in Naira is as per current exchange rate. It is subject to change without notice. There is a service charge of 32060 (Naira inclusive of VAT) levied per application over and above the visa fees. Visa Fee and service charge to be paid at GT Bank branch located at Tombia Road, GRA.
All the information about applying for a U.S. visa can be found on our web site at http://nigeria.usembassy.gov. How much is the visa fee? For the standard tourist visa, it is $140, which at the current exchange rate (February 14, 2012) is about 22,000 Naira (Nigerian currency).
The type of visa for which you apply determines the fee amount. This webpage lists visa application fees associated with each nonimmigrant visa type. In Nigeria, depending on your visa class, the majority of visa applicants will pay either $160, $190 or $265 at GT Bank.
The visa fee in Naira is as per current exchange rate. It is subject to change without notice. There is a service charge of 12060 (Naira inclusive of VAT) levied per application over and above the visa fees. Visa Fee and service charge to be paid at Bank Implant inside VFS centre.
The application fees are shown below and apply to one visa application. The application fee for the most common nonimmigrant visa types is $160. This includes tourist, business, student and exchange visas. Most petition-based visas, such as work and religious visas, are $190. K visas cost $240 and the fee amount for E visas is $205 Please note that visa fees for K applicants must be made at GT Bank. The tables below are a more comprehensive list of visa types and fee amounts.
The visa fee in Naira is as per current exchange rate. It is subject to change without notice. There is a service charge of 6750 Nairas levied per application over and above the visa fees. (Service charge 6412.5 Nairas + VAT 337.5 Nairas).
You will need to pay a separate SEVIS fee in addition to the visa application fee. For nonimmigrant students with Form I-20, the SEVIS fee is US$200. For most exchange visitors with Form DS-2019, the SEVIS fee is US$180. Proof of payment is required before your student or exchange visitor visa will be issued.