reclusive. adjective solitary, retiring, withdrawn, isolated, secluded, cloistered, monastic, recluse, ascetic, sequestered, hermit-like, hermitic, eremitic She had become increasingly ill and reclusive. re·clu·sive. adj. 1. Seeking or preferring seclusion or isolation.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. A technological recluse is someone that is socially isolated and solely communicates electronically e.g. using self check out when shopping, paying with a credit card at the pump for gas, shopping online, emailing instead of talking on the phone. As its name indicates, it has the ability of hiding in your homes in the darkest and smallest places it can find. This species of spider normally attacks its prey injecting ve … nom along with their bite. The venom of this spider is powerful, it is used to kill other insects.
Becoming a recluse is a character building journey that allows one to escape from the tedium of mundane social interaction. It allows one the freedom to become an individual, away from the prying eyes of your contemporaries. The best way to get perspective on the human condition is to view the wider world that we inhabit. If you live near a nature reserve or park, take walks there regularly, early in the morning. Watch nature documentaries when you get a chance and take note when you run into critters in your everyday life.
Hikikomori (ひきこもり or 引き籠もり, Hikikomori, literally pulling inward, being confined, i.e., acute social withdrawal) is a Japanese term to refer to the phenomenon of reclusive adolescents or adults who withdraw from social life, often seeking extreme degrees of isolation and confinement. The Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare defines hikikomori as people who refuse to leave their house and, thus, isolate themselves from society in their homes for a period exceeding six months.
3. Try not to become negative. Becoming a reclusive person may not be an easy task,you will have to exercise self-discipline and emotional stamina if you are to reap the fulfilling rewards. The idea of the exercise is to prove your own worth to yourself, not to suffer in misery. The best way to get perspective on the human condition is to view the wider world that we inhabit. If you live near a nature reserve or park, take walks there regularly, early in the morning. Watch nature documentaries when you get a chance and take note when you run into critters in your everyday life.
I can understand what it is to want to be reclusive. I find it very interesting to be driven to not want to be in the spotlight. Their muses want them to create yet their want to not be interviewed and chewed on by the fans and to want their creations to speak for them is what I think these artists wanted. 
2. reclusive-providing privacy or seclusion; the cloistered academic world of books; sat close together in the sequestered pergola; sitting under the reclusive calm of a shade tree; a secluded romantic spot. sequestered, cloistered, secluded. re·clu·sive. adj. 1. Seeking or preferring seclusion or isolation.
it is normally used in language like that. Computer was the tremendous invention in the domain of data processing. here the domain ind … icate something related to data processing. it is ordinary English word.occasionally used in science and technology. As its name indicates, it has the ability of hiding in your homes in the darkest and smallest places it can find. This species of spider normally attacks its prey injecting ve … nom along with their bite. The venom of this spider is powerful, it is used to kill other insects.