The word brand is often used as a metonym referring to the company that is strongly identified with a brand. Marque or make are often used to denote a brand of motor vehicle, which may be distinguished from a car model. A brandnomer is a brand name that has colloquially become a generic term for a product or service, such as Band-Aid, Nylon, or Kleenex —which are often used to describe any brand of adhesive bandage; any type of hosiery; or any brand of facial tissue respectively.
They're all brand names and more than likely, these brand names are familiar to you, your family, and your friends. Some of you may even be loyal fans of one or more of these brands. In its simplest form, a brand is a name attached to a product or service. And, it's as much about human behavior as anything else because brand names also represent the intangible, a set of perceptions and feelings about a product or service, or even a set of values. A brand name should be no more than one to three words at most. It should be easy to remember, uncomplicated, and easily associated with the product, for example Sun In, a hair care product that lightens hair color when you're in the sun. A brand name should reflect your target market and what your product is all about. Create a Slogan. A slogan is a short, catchy phrase that in two to three words lets people know why they should buy the product or, what the product can do for them
If you need to choose a great brand name for your product, service or business, start by considering the importance of the name in your branding efforts. Your name is an extension of your brand, and it can reinforce the value you provide or distance you from it. When you’re developing a name for a business, a product or a service, you have a number of options: 1  Use the founder or inventor’s name (Hewlett-Packard). 2  Describe what you do (Southwest Airlines). 3  Describe an experience or image (Sprint). 4  Take a word out of context (Apple). 5  Make up a word (Google).
A brand (or marque for car model) is a name, term, design, symbol or other feature that distinguishes one seller's product from those of others. Brands are used in business, marketing, and advertising. A brandnomer is a brand name that has colloquially become a generic term for a product or service, such as Band-Aid, Nylon, or Kleenex —which are often used to describe any brand of adhesive bandage; any type of hosiery; or any brand of facial tissue respectively.
A brand name however, has more to do with marketing. Brand name products are those that have become culturally accepted as icons of a certain kind of object. For instance, Doritos are a brand name of tortilla chips and Coca Cola and Pepsi have become brand name soda drinks. Bentley is an example of a brand named after a founder. The brand name for Nintendo Wii® is a completely made up word. Brand name clothing is typically more expensive. Many types of medications have both brand name and generic versions.
A crucial element of any business is the creation of a brand name by which people could identify the service or product it provides. It’s also one of the very first things you have to think about, and it’s something that will be stuck with your business for long. (Image Source: Wikipedia). 4. Have the Logo in Mind. Brand name and logo go hand-in-hand for the most part. If you want to have a strong branding for your business, make sure that people can identify the logo with the brand name. The brand “ Apple “, for instance, has a pretty straightforward logo in the shape of an apple.
Having a recognizable brand name is very valuable for a company, as it can lead to higher sales. If consumers have positive associations or feelings about a certain brand, then they'll typically be more likely to buy products in that range than generic products or products from other brands. Bentley is an example of a brand named after a founder. The brand name for Nintendo Wii® is a completely made up word. Brand name clothing is typically more expensive. Many types of medications have both brand name and generic versions.
The intangible sum of a product's attributes: its name, packaging, and price, its history, its reputation, and the way it's advertised. A brand is a product, service, or concept that is publicly distinguished from other products, services, or concepts so that it can be easily communicated and usually marketed. A brand name is the name of the distinctive product, service, or concept. Branding is the process of creating and disseminating the brand name. Branding can be applied to the entire corporate identity as well as to individual product and service names
Companies may name the brand after a founder, as in the case of the car company, Bentley, or they may choose to use a series of letters to make the name easier to remember. Some companies also use wordplay, or name the product after the place it comes from. Bentley is an example of a brand named after a founder. The brand name for Nintendo Wii® is a completely made up word. Brand name clothing is typically more expensive. Many types of medications have both brand name and generic versions.