Hands redirects here. For other uses, see Hand (disambiguation) and Hands (disambiguation) . A hand (med. / lat. : manus, pl. manūs) is a prehensile, multi-fingered extremity located at the end of an arm or forelimb of primates such as humans, chimpanzees, monkeys, and lemurs. 
Adjective [edit]. dorsal ‎(not comparable). ( 1 anatomy) With respect to, or concerning the side in which the backbone is located, or the analogous side of an invertebrate. ( 2 of a knife) Having only one sharp side. ( 3 anatomy) Relating to the top surface of the foot or hand. ( 4 linguistics, of a sound) Produced using the dorsum of the tongue.
dor•sal. 1. of, pertaining to, or situated at the back, or dorsum. 2. situated on or toward the upper side of the body, equivalent to the back in humans. 3. Bot. abaxial. 4. a dorsal structure. dorsal. adj. 1. (Anatomy) anatomy zoology relating to the back or spinal part of the body. Compare ventral 1. 2. (Botany) botany of, relating to, or situated on the side of an organ that is directed away from the axis.
dorsal aspect that surface of a body viewed from the back (human anatomy) or from above (veterinary anatomy). ventral aspect that surface of a body viewed from the front (human anatomy) or from below (veterinary anatomy). anterior aspect that surface of the human body or a body part viewed from the front. Called also ventral aspect. dorsal aspect posterior aspect. posterior aspect that surface of the human body or a body part viewed from the back. Called also dorsal aspect. ventral aspect anterior aspect.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The dorsal fin of a dolphin. The dorsal fin of a dolphin. The definition of dorsal is something related to the back or the upper side of a plant or animal. The fin on a shark's back is an example of something that would be described as dorsal.
dorsum of hand. Definitions: 1. the back of the hand; surface of hand opposite the palm. Synonyms: dorsum manus. The definition information for dorsum of hand is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. 
dorsum. n, pl-sa (-sə). 1. (Anatomy) a technical name for the back 1. 2. (Anatomy) any analogous surface: the dorsum of the hand. [C18: from Latin, literally: back]. 
Medical Definition of DORSUM. 1. : the upper surface of an appendage or part. 2. : back 1a, b; especially: the entire dorsal surface of an animal. 