Best Answer: During the process of decomposition, the decomposers provide food for themselves by extracting chemicals from the dead bodies or organic wastes; using these to produce energy. The decomposers will then produce waste of their own. In turn, this will also decompose, eventually returning nutrients to the soil. 
Chemical decomposition, analysis or breakdown is the separation of a chemical compound into elements or simpler compounds. It is sometimes defined as the exact opposite of a chemical synthesis. Chemical decomposition is often an undesired chemical reaction. 
Answer by Chandya chandiramohan. Confidence votes 139. Decomposition allows dead organisms to become simpler substances such as minerals, salts, and carbon dioxide. Plants use these simple substances to make food and provide oxygen for all the other organisms. This is regarded as the circle of life. Chemical decomposition is the breakdown of complex molecules into simpler substances. In biology, it refers to the breakdown of organic animal and plant tissues into the ele ….
It describes and explains how the thermal stability of the compounds changes as you go down the Group. The Facts. The effect of heat on the Group 2 carbonates. All the carbonates in this Group undergo thermal decomposition to give the metal oxide and carbon dioxide gas. Thermal decomposition is the term given to splitting up a compound by heating it. All of these carbonates are white solids, and the oxides that are produced are also white solids. 
When plant residues are returned to the soil, various organic compounds undergo decomposition. Decomposition is a biological process that includes the physical breakdown and biochemical transformation of complex organic molecules of dead material into simpler organic and inorganic molecules (Juma, 1998). 
Thermal decomposition, or thermolysis, is a chemical decomposition caused by heat. The decomposition temperature of a substance is the temperature at which the substance chemically decomposes. The reaction is usually endothermic as heat is required to break chemical bonds in the compound undergoing decomposition. 1 When water is heated to well over 2000 °C, a small percentage of it will decompose into OH, monotomic oxygen, monotomic hydrogen, O 2, and H 2. 2  The compound with the highest known decomposition temperature is carbon monoxide at ≈3870 °C (≈7000 °F). .
Metal carbonates such as calcium carbonate break down when heated strongly. This is called thermal decomposition. Here are the equations for the thermal decomposition of calcium carbonate: calcium carbonate calcium oxide + carbon dioxide. CaCO 3 CaO + CO 2. Other metal carbonates decompose in the same way. Here are the equations for the thermal decomposition of copper carbonate: copper carbonate copper oxide + carbon dioxide. CuCO 3 CuO + CO 2. Notice that in both examples the products are a metal oxide and carbon dioxide. The carbon dioxide gas can be detected using limewater.