Insurance is the biggest factor in the final cost of a sports hernia repair operation. Between the deductible, a set limit to what you can pay, and coinsurance, a percentage payment plan, it can be confusing as to what the final cost will be to you. Unfortunately, sports hernia repair surgery, like any other major operation, has the potential to put a major dent into your finances if you don’t fully understand how much is covered by insurance, if any at all. The first priority is, and should be, your recovery.
1 An inguinal hernia can be repaired through open surgery or laparoscopic surgery, according to the National Guideline Clearinghouse. 2  A recent study of more than 1.5 million hernia operations found that the average cost for an open hernia surgery ranged between $4,200 and $6,200. 1 An umbilical hernia can also be repaired through laparoscopic or open surgery, which can cost an individual without insurance between $4,000 and $11,000. 2  The average individual with insurance can expect to pay between $700 and $2,000. 3  Some patients opt to delay surgical treatment of a hernia
The two surgery centers that he works with are also reliable and fair, which results in the lowest possible out-of-pocket cost to you, the patient. It can be hard to estimate the final cost of a sports hernia repair, as there are many factors that can influence the price. The extent of the injury itself can vary greatly from patient to patient, changing the costs. Unfortunately, sports hernia repair surgery, like any other major operation, has the potential to put a major dent into your finances if you don’t fully understand how much is covered by insurance, if any at all. The first priority is, and should be, your recovery.
In general, playing sports can be achieved in 4-6 weeks after sports hernia surgery. The ultimate goal is for athletes to return to their sport-specific activity with 100% effort free from groin pain. Although the true incidence of contralateral injury – or injury to the other side – is not known, it surely can occur. If properly selected, athletes should do very well with sports hernia surgery. If the diagnosis is correct and physical therapy has truly been exhausted, then those select athletes should have a near 100% response to sports hernia surgery followed by post-operative rehabilitation.
Groin pain with no bulge. A sports hernia is an inguinal hernia that causes groin pain with no apparent bulge. Pain typical of a sports hernia is a sharp ache in the groin that is aggravated by exercise or other activity. Many patients complain of pain shooting into the scrotum or down to the testicle. Treatment of Sports Hernia. The only effective treatment of a sports hernia is inguinal herniorrhaphy. At surgery a small hernia is usually found. We prefer an open non-mesh anatomical repair. One of the issues with sports hernia patients that must be kept in mind is that they have very sensitive groins.
Hernia Surgery Cost. The average price for a hernia repair in a hospital is $14,000 but this is only the facility fee and does not include the surgeon, anesthesia or other miscellaneous fees. We provide an all inclusive package price which is a small fraction of this. The actual cost of. . .
A sports hernia is a painful, soft tissue injury that occurs in the groin area. It most often occurs during sports that require sudden changes of direction or intense twisting movements. Although a sports hernia may lead to a traditional, abdominal hernia, it is a different injury. Some cases of sports hernia require cutting of a small nerve in the groin (inguinal nerve) during the surgery to relieve the patient's pain.