A bridal or wedding set is the engagement ring and wedding ring for the woman sold as 1 together. You can pull them apart and they are made to clip together. And they match! Buy the bridal set and give the engagement ring to the woman and then tell her you already have the matching wedding ring for it. An engagement ring is a ring given to propose (1 ring by itself. This is the BLING ring. The one with a big diamond 1-2 cts)
One of the most important aspects of a marriage proposal is the engagement ring. This ring is traditionally a beautiful gemstone set on a band and is what has come to be known as a symbol of wedding culture. Because the wedding band is placed on the same finger as the engagement ring, many brides choose to move their engagement rings to their right hands for the ceremony and then move them back to the left hand afterwards so that their two rings are stacked. Photo Credit: Weddingbee.
An engagement ring is a ring indicating that the person wearing it is engaged to be married, especially in Western cultures. In Western countries, engagement rings are worn mostly by women, and rings can feature diamonds or other gemstones. In some other cultures men and women wear matching rings. 
Location of Wear. In most cases, people wear both engagement rings and wedding rings on the ring finger (the fourth finger starting with the thumb) of the left hand. Before the wedding, the engagement ring is worn alone, and the rings are worn together after the marriage ceremony. Engagement rings are different from wedding rings primarily in that they are worn before a legal or symbolic marriage ceremony. They are often bought before the wedding rings as well, although some people choose matching sets that are purchased together.
In the jewelry world, a wedding set includes the engagement ring, matching band for her and a band for him. A bridal set consists of an engagement ring and matching band for the bride, leaving the groom on his own for his band. Outside of the jewelry industry, the term wedding set is commonly used for both. Now you can speak your jeweler’s language and get what you want. However, a simple fix to the uncertainty of choosing the right engagement ring (not to mention the second step of choosing the wedding band), and one that appeals to that streak of practicality, is the wedding set or bridal set. This is an area where you and your jeweler might be speaking a different language.
A wedding ring is plainer looking. Might have diamonds but wont have any big diamonds like the engagement ring does. A wedding band is the same as wedding ring except a band usually means it doesnt have diamonds. And a wedding band is what they call a man's wedding ring. If you get engaged trust me buy the bridal set. And they match! Buy the bridal set and give the engagement ring to the woman and then tell her you already have the matching wedding ring for it. An engagement ring is a ring given to propose (1 ring by itself. This is the BLING ring.
If you want to see diamonds in her wedding band, a wedding set or bridal set is the best way to go. The diamonds in the set will all be matched in color and overall appearance. Additionally, any design on the wedding band will be created to enhance the design on the engagement ring and fit against the central stone. However, a simple fix to the uncertainty of choosing the right engagement ring (not to mention the second step of choosing the wedding band), and one that appeals to that streak of practicality, is the wedding set or bridal set. This is an area where you and your jeweler might be speaking a different language.
In some cultures the engagement ring will be worn on the fourth finger of the right hand. The wedding band alone, or together with the engagement ring will be worn on the fourth finger of the left hand after marriage. It is automatically known, when you see a ring on the right hand that the young lady is engaged. If she is not engaged she can wear a ring with any kind of stone on her left hand. Engagement rings are different from wedding rings primarily in that they are worn before a legal or symbolic marriage ceremony. They are often bought before the wedding rings as well, although some people choose matching sets that are purchased together.