They live in heavy rain forests, and it is difficult for scientists to accurately estimate how many survive in Cameroon, Central African Republic, Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Angola, and the Democratic Republic of Congo. Western lowland gorillas tend to be a bit smaller than their mountain cousins.
Habitat. Mountain gorillas live in Rwanda, Uganda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo, on green, volcanic mountains. Lowland gorillas live in the forests of central and western Africa in Equatorial Guinea, Angola, Cameroon, the Central African Republic, Congo, Gabon and the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
Where Do Gorillas Live. Gorillas have an erratic distribution across the globe. The western gorillas are generally known to reside in the west central Africa and the eastern gorillas inhabits in the east central Africa. There is too much diversity in the gorilla habitats in that some live at elevations while others reside at the ground level.
Montane bamboo forests are the most common habitats of eastern gorillas with the range measuring at 600–3308 m (1969-10,853 ft). Western gorillas also live in the submontane forests, lowland forests, and swamps with the range measuring 150–1600 m (492–5249 ft). Most gorillas exist in humid equatorial rainforest, but few of them reside in primary forests.
Mountain gorillas are found in 3 countries in Africa: Rwanda, Uganda, and the Democratic Republic of the Congo(DR Congo). The gorillas live in a tiny area where these countries' borders meet, which is on the western edge of the East African Rift Valley.
Western lowland gorillas live in the smallest family groups of all gorillas, with an average of 4 to 8 members in each. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: Western lowland gorillas are endangered, but they remain far more common than their relatives, the mountain gorillas.
Western or lowland gorillas inhabit the forests of equatorial Africa from the western lowlands near the Cameroon coast through the Central African Republic, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Nigeria, Republic of Congo, Angola, and possibly the Democratic Republic of Congo.