Double-blind, placebo-controlled pravastatin studies in children less than 8 years of age have not been conducted. Two secondary prevention trials with pravastatin (CARE and LIPID) included a total of 6593 subjects treated with pravastatin 40 mg for periods ranging up to 6 years.
Geriatric: In a single oral dose study using pravastatin 20 mg, the mean AUC for pravastatin was approximately 27% greater and the mean cumulative urinary excretion (CUE) approximately 19% lower in elderly men (65-75 years old) compared with younger men (19-31 years old).
2 Their report is further condensed in Tables 1 and 2 on page 25. It should be noted that there is far less data about primary than about secondary prevention as most trials recruit patients either with overt coronary heart disease or who are at high risk for it.
Statin Template Guidance Use of statins in primary and secondary prevention of vascular disease. 2 Notes relating to this guidance This guidance serves as an aid to the implementation of NICE clinical guidelines on lipid modification (CG67) and type 2 diabetes (CG66).
In the Pravastatin Primary Prevention Study (WOS), 3 the effect of PRAVACHOL on fatal and nonfatal CHD was assessed in 6595 men 45 to 64 years of age, without a previous MI, and with LDL-C levels between 156 to 254 mg/dL (4-6.7 mmol/L).
A comparison of low versus standard dose pravastatin therapy for the prevention of cardiovascular events in the elderly: the pravastatin anti-atherosclerosis trial in the elderly (PATE). Ito H(1), Ouchi Y, Ohashi Y, Saito Y, Ishikawa T, Nakamura H, Orimo H. Author information:
Despite this decrease in systemic bioavailability, the efficacy of pravastatin administered once daily in the evening, although not statistically significant, was marginally more effective than that after a morning dose. The coefficient of variation (CV), based on between-subject variability, was 50% to 60% for AUC.
Fixed dose strategy Eight of eleven RCTs tested a single dose of statin. A fixed dose strategy based on these trials would employ the daily dose used in the trials: atorvastatin 10 mg, fluvastatin 80 mg, pravastatin 40 mg, or simvastatin 40 mg.
Care should be taken with diltiazem (simvastatin dose should not exceed 40 mg) and ciclosporin (simvastatin dose should not exceed 10 mg daily). Atorva statin may also increase risk of myopathy with these drugs. Pravastatin and rosuvastatin are less likely to interact