The term Indian Independence Movement encompasses activities and ideas aiming to end first East India Company rule (1757–1858), then the British Raj (1858–1947). The independence movement saw various national and regional campaigns, agitations and efforts, some nonviolent and some revolutionary. The Indian independence movement had a long history in the Tamil-speaking districts of the then Madras Presidency going back to the 18th century. The first resistance to the British was offered by the legendary Puli Thevan in 1757.
India remained a Dominion of the Crown until 26 January 1950, when the Constitution of India came into force, establishing the Republic of India; Pakistan was a dominion until 1956, when it adopted its first republican constitution. In 1971, East Pakistan declared independence as the People's Republic of Bangladesh. The Indian independence movement had a long history in the Tamil-speaking districts of the then Madras Presidency going back to the 18th century. The first resistance to the British was offered by the legendary Puli Thevan in 1757.
On 15 August 1947, Jawaharlal Nehru, who had become the first Prime Minister of India that day, raised the Indian national flag above the Lahori Gate of the Red Fort in Delhi. On each subsequent Independence Day, the prime minister has raised the flag and given a speech. Independence Day, one of the three national holidays in India (the other two being the Republic Day on 26 January and Mahatma Gandhi's birthday on 2 October), is observed in all Indian states and union territories. On the eve of Independence Day, the President of India delivers the Address to the Nation.
India didn’t independence from Quit India movement. Infact the only reason India didn’t get independence earlier than 1947 was because of Gandhi who was used a pawn by Britishers to keep control of Indians in India. India got independence only after the effect of WW2 on British Raj. The Evolution of the Indian Independence Movement. The British East India Company had gained much control over the internal affairs of India. The spirit of nationalism in India gained ground in the middle of the 19th century.
On June 15, 1947, the British House of Commons passed the Indian Independence Act, or Mountbatten Plan, which divided India into two dominions, India and Pakistan. It called for each dominion to be granted its independence by Aug. 15 of that year. 
Eventually, August 15th became the Independence Day for India, due to the ending of British rule over India. On that August 15th, both Pakistan and India had the right to remain in or remove themselves from the British Commonwealth. The Indian independence movement had a long history in the Tamil-speaking districts of the then Madras Presidency going back to the 18th century. The first resistance to the British was offered by the legendary Puli Thevan in 1757.
Best Answer: India attained Independence on August 15th 1947, after a great political and social struggle. The British had ruled over India for a considerable period of time. Their initial intentions were to carry out trade in India, but in due course of time they developed political and administrative ambitions. The Evolution of the Indian Independence Movement The British East India Company had gained much control over the internal affairs of India. The spirit of nationalism in India gained ground in the middle of the 19th century.
At 12:02 midnight, on 15 August 1947. India celebrates its Independence Day on 15 August, commemorating the day it gained its independence from British rule and its birth as a sovereign nation in 1947.
Independence Day, observed annually on 15 August, is a National Holiday in India commemorating the nation's independence from the British Empire on 15 August 1947. Independence Day, one of the three national holidays in India (the other two being the Republic Day on 26 January and Mahatma Gandhi's birthday on 2 October), is observed in all Indian states and union territories. On the eve of Independence Day, the President of India delivers the Address to the Nation.
India attained Independence on August 15th 1947, after a great political and social struggle. The British had ruled over India for a considerable period of time. Their initial intentions were to carry out trade in India, but in due course of time they developed political and administrative ambitions. The Evolution of the Indian Independence Movement. The British East India Company had gained much control over the internal affairs of India. The spirit of nationalism in India gained ground in the middle of the 19th century.