The Romance of the Wild Rose. Of course, roses are probably the No. 1 symbol of love in human history. We've even had a War of the Roses, not to mention centuries of rose perfumes, oils, medicines, and foods. Along the upper Pacific coast from Alaska down into California, a famous wild rose is Rosa nutkana, known as The Nootka Rose.. And of course, there is a Rosa californica, native west of the Sierra Nevada. All these westerners are pink. There are others, and every region has it's favorite.
The true Wild Roses. The botanical term for wild rose is species rose, which means just what it says — a species that occurs naturally, with no help from man — a true wildflower.. There are over 100 of these worldwide, some native to North America, many from the Orient and Europe. Along the upper Pacific coast from Alaska down into California, a famous wild rose is Rosa nutkana, known as The Nootka Rose.. And of course, there is a Rosa californica, native west of the Sierra Nevada. All these westerners are pink. There are others, and every region has it's favorite.
Wild rose is the common name of certain flowering shrubs: 1  Any wild members of the Genus Rosa (see List of Rosa species), or, more especially: 2  Rosa acicularis, wild rose, a rose species which occurs in Asia, Europe, and North America. 1 Rosa canina, wild rose or dog rose, a climbing rose species native to Europe, northwest Africa and western Asia. 2  Rosa virginiana, Virginia rose, a rose species native to the United States.
Where Wild Roses Grow. In order to grow wild rose plants properly, it helps to know more about them, including where wild roses grow. Species roses are naturally growing shrubs that occur in nature with no help at all from man. It isn’t difficult to grow wild rose plants. Wild rosebushes can be planted just like any other rosebush and will do best in areas where they get plenty of sun and the soils are well drained (as a general rule).
Wild Roses is a Canadian television drama series, which debuted January 6, 2009 on CBC Television. Originally titled Cowgirls, CBC requested the change to Wild Roses after testing the title. The show was officially cancelled by the CBC on April 22, 2009 after only one season. Reruns of the show are seen during the summer, starting June 19, Friday nights at 9:00 (9:30 in Newfoundland) on most CBC Television stations
Growing Wild Roses. It isn’t difficult to grow wild rose plants. Wild rosebushes can be planted just like any other rosebush and will do best in areas where they get plenty of sun and the soils are well drained (as a general rule).
1 Any wild members of the Genus Rosa (see List of Rosa species), or, more especially: 2  Rosa acicularis, wild rose, a rose species which occurs in Asia, Europe, and North America. 3  Rosa arkansana, wild prairie rose, a rose species native to a large area of central North America. 1 Rosa canina, wild rose or dog rose, a climbing rose species native to Europe, northwest Africa and western Asia. 2  Rosa virginiana, Virginia rose, a rose species native to the United States.
Growing wild roses are all own root roses, which means they grow upon their own root systems without any grafting as is done by man to help some of the modern roses grow well in varying climatic conditions. It isn’t difficult to grow wild rose plants. Wild rosebushes can be planted just like any other rosebush and will do best in areas where they get plenty of sun and the soils are well drained (as a general rule).
OREGON'S WILD ROSES! A rose by any other name... Portland is the City of Roses and it’s rare to find a garden that does not contain a rose or two or more. However, what we think of immediately when we think of roses is a contemporary hybridization and taming of the wild-haired free spirits that are native roses. 
1 Rosa acicularis, wild rose, a rose species which occurs in Asia, Europe, and North America. 2  Rosa arkansana, wild prairie rose, a rose species native to a large area of central North America. 3  Rosa canina, wild rose or dog rose, a climbing rose species native to Europe, northwest Africa and western Asia. 1 Rosa canina, wild rose or dog rose, a climbing rose species native to Europe, northwest Africa and western Asia. 2  Rosa virginiana, Virginia rose, a rose species native to the United States.