While there is no defined border between North Jersey and South Jersey, the Raritan River, Manasquan River or Interstate 195 are often mentioned as the border, with most of the shore region being located in South Jersey. To many New Jersey residents, it is simply referred to as The Shore.. A commonly-said phrase within New Jersey is to go down the shore, or to have done something down the shore.
Famous for its many boardwalks with arcades, water parks, and amusement parks boasting hundreds of rides and attractions, the Jersey Shore is a popular vacation spot for New Jerseyans, New Yorkers, and Pennsylvanians, and various other states in the Northeastern United States. To many New Jersey residents, it is simply referred to as The Shore.. A commonly-said phrase within New Jersey is to go down the shore, or to have done something down the shore.
The series follows the lives of eight housemates spending their summer at the Jersey Shore in the U.S. state of New Jersey. Season 2 followed the cast escaping the cold northeast winter to Miami Beach, Florida, with Season 3 returning to the Jersey Shore. The fourth season, filmed in Italy, premiered on August 4, 2011. On March 19, 2012, MTV confirmed that the series would return for their sixth season. On August 30, 2012, MTV announced that the Jersey Shore would end after the sixth season, which premiered on October 4. The series finale aired on December 20, 2012.
Darwin has been navigating the waters along the New Jersey Shore for more years than he’d like to admit – he could take you from Sandy Hook to Cape May with his eyes closed and one fin tied behind his back. We like to think of him as our ‘New Jersey Shore Compass’. Once you enter a town's home page, Darwin will always display the New Jersey Shore town sites as follows: 1  Center of Darwin’s Compass: Returns you to NewJerseyShore.com. 2  North: Visit the town located directly north of the town currently displayed.
Jersey Shore is an American reality television series which ran on MTV from December 3, 2009 to December 20, 2012 in the United States. On March 19, 2012, MTV confirmed that the series would return for their sixth season. On August 30, 2012, MTV announced that the Jersey Shore would end after the sixth season, which premiered on October 4. The series finale aired on December 20, 2012.
Down the Shore means there's something for everyone. Among New Jersey's most treasured prizes are the white-sand beaches that draw hundreds of thousands of visitors and families each year to enjoy the surf, sand, sun, fun and excitement of the famous Jersey Shore.
Spring Lake is one of the most upscale Jersey Shore towns. The Jersey Shore is the coastal region of the state of New Jersey. Geographically, the term encompasses about 141 miles (227 km) of oceanfront from New Brunswick in the north to Cape May Point in the south. The Jersey Shore area includes Middlesex County, Monmouth County, Atlantic County, Cape May County, and Ocean County. To many New Jersey residents, it is simply referred to as The Shore.. A commonly-said phrase within New Jersey is to go down the shore, or to have done something down the shore.
The Jersey Shore house is the name given to the house used on MTV show Jersey Shore. Located in Seaside Heights, the house was used during the first season, starting on December 3, 2009, and was used on the show in four out of the six seasons. On March 19, 2012, MTV confirmed that the series would return for their sixth season. On August 30, 2012, MTV announced that the Jersey Shore would end after the sixth season, which premiered on October 4. The series finale aired on December 20, 2012.
Jersey Shore  alum Vinny Guadagnino doesn't care if people think he's a washed-up reality star desperate for cash ... he's unloading his white 2013 Lamborghini Gallardo on eBay. Vinny posted a pic of the whip with the message, Attention rich people! The Situation has both the civil and criminal courts covered in New Jersey ... because his landlord will ask a judge on Monday to boot Sitch from his home. Pat Giganti is a tolerant if foolish man ... he rented to The Situation once before and got burned -- the Jersey Shore star trashed his $750,000 home 2 years ago.