A paid judgment stays on a person's credit report for seven years.  An unpaid judgment also stays on the report for seven years, but  may be renewed. Tax liens are another i … tem that stay on a credit  report for seven years, if paid. If not paid, they remain on the  credit report indefinitely. The renewal of a judgment would allow it to show on a credit report for 7 years from the date of renewal, if allowed by state law.Generally seven, although most judgments are renewable in which case it could be on a cr a very long time.
Longevity of Judgments on a Credit Report. After the judgment is filed, it can stay on a credit report for an eternity. Depending on the state, the black mark remains on the report for 12 to 20 years, with an option for the creditor to renew the negative strike at the end of that time. Even if it's paid, a notation of Satisfied Judgment stands on the report for another seven years after settlement.
1 A judgment remains on a consumer's credit report for 7 years from the date of entry, or until the governing statute of limitations has expired, whichever is longer. 2  This time period applies to each legal action. 3  Under certain circumstances and certain state's laws, judgments can be renewed. Here is input from others: 1  A judgment remains on a consumer's credit report for 7 years from the date of entry, or until the governing statute of limitations has expired, whichever is longer. 2  Generally seven, although most judgments are renewable in which case it could be on a cr a very long time.
1 In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years. 2  However, you may see individual accounts in the bankruptcy, such as credit accounts, fall off of your report seven years and 180 days from the start of the delinquency on the account. How long negative information appears on your credit report depends on the type of information: 1  Late paid accounts. 2  In general, negative information will stay on your credit report for seven years from the date of last activity.
How long does a judgement stay on your credit report in Ohio I have a judgement from my old credit union and my credit report says it is to come off in september but can they extend it for any reason I never paid it and someone said not to because they will get another 7 years I dont know what to do. Add your answer. · just now. Report Abuse. Judgements can only stay on your credit reports for 7 years, starting on the date of the judgement. It can not be renewed, and making a payment will not reset the reporting date. As far as renewing a judgement, the creditor can go back to court and get it renewed
1 Tax liens. 2  Paid tax liens will typically stay on your credit report for seven years from the date released (paid), while unpaid tax liens can remain on your credit report for 15 years. 3  Bankruptcies. 4  In general, the public record of a bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years. How long negative information appears on your credit report depends on the type of information: 1  Late paid accounts. 2  In general, negative information will stay on your credit report for seven years from the date of last activity.
A paid judgment stays on a person's credit report for seven years.  An unpaid judgment also stays on the report for seven years, but  may be renewed. Tax liens are another i … tem that stay on a credit  report for seven years, if paid. If not paid, they remain on the  credit report indefinitely. Here is input from others: 1  A judgment remains on a consumer's credit report for 7 years from the date of entry, or until the governing statute of limitations has expired, whichever is longer. 2  Generally seven, although most judgments are renewable in which case it could be on a cr a very long time.
Positive information. Accounts paid as agreed will generally stay on your credit report for up to 10 years from the date of last activity. If you’ve paid off your mortgage, for example, that positive information can stay on your credit report for up to a decade from the account’s date of last activity. How long negative information appears on your credit report depends on the type of information: 1  Late paid accounts. 2  In general, negative information will stay on your credit report for seven