Velocity as a Vector Quantity. Velocity is a vector quantity that refers to the rate at which an object changes its position.. Imagine a person moving rapidly-one step forward and one step back-always returning to the original starting position. While this might result in a frenzy of activity, it would result in a zero velocity. Just as distance and displacement have distinctly different meanings (despite their similarities), so do speed and velocity. Speed is a scalar quantity that refers to how fast an object is moving.. Speed can be thought of as the rate at which an object covers distance.
If an object has zero acceleration, its velocity doesn't have to be zero. Acceleration is a measure of the change in velocity over time. Zero acceleration means there is no ch … ange in velocity over time, namely constant velocity. Constant velocity can be any velocity (including zero velocity or at rest), so the object's velocity doesn't have to be zero to have zero acceleration. 
Part of the IT standards and organizations glossary: Velocity is a vector expression of the displacement that an object or particle undergoes with respect to time. The standard unit of velocity magnitude (also known as speed) is the meter per second (m/s). Alternatively, the centimeter per second (cm/s) can be used to express velocity magnitude. 
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Velocity is the vector version of speed. Speed and velocity are NOT the same thing. --------------------------------------... Imagine a mass travelling to the right with speed 5ms^-1 To know the velocity, you have to assign a direction +/-. 
Usage We normally think of velocity as the speed at which an object is traveling. But in physics, velocity and speed are not the same. Like speed, velocity refers to the rate at which an object is moving—the distance per unit of time. But velocity in physics also includes the direction in which the object is moving, whereas direction has no bearing on an object's speed
Report Abuse. Velocity is a vector, meaning it has a magnitude, as well as a direction. If something is at constant velocity, this means that it is moving at a constant speed and in a constant direction. If a car moves at 55 mph toward North for 15 minutes and then 55 mph East for 15 minutes, it does not have constant velocity for the 30 minute period, because it changed direction. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: constant velocity For example, an object moves at 55mph for the entire 30 minutes--moving at a constant speed and even after 30 minutes it will move with the same speed if it is a constant even after 30 minutes.
The velocity of an object is the rate of change of its position with respect to a frame of reference, and is a function of time. Velocity is equivalent to a specification of its speed and direction of motion, e.g. 7001166666666666666♠60 km/h to the north. Velocity is an important concept in kinematics, the branch of classical mechanics that describes the motion of bodies. Thus, a constant velocity means motion in a straight line at a constant speed.. For example, a car moving at a constant 20 kilometres per hour in a circular path has a constant speed, but does not have a constant velocity because its direction changes. Hence, the car is considered to be undergoing an acceleration.
Velocity. In kinematics, velocity is the rate of change of the position of an object, equivalent to a specification of its speed and direction of motion. Speed describes only how fast an object is moving, whereas velocity gives both how fast and in what direction the object is moving. Thus, a constant velocity means motion in a straight line at a constant speed. If there is a change in speed, direction, or both, then the object is said to have a changing velocity and is undergoing an acceleration.