Filtration is the process of separating suspended solid matter from a liquid, by causing the latter to pass through the pores of some substance, called a filter. The liquid which has passed through the filter is called the filtrate. The filter may be paper, cloth, cotton-wool, asbestos, slag-or glass-wool, unglazed earthenware, sand, or other porous material. Filtration is very frequently employed in chemical technology, and it often presents great difficulties.
glomerular filtration, the renal process whereby fluid in the blood is filtered across the capillaries of the glomerulus and into the urinary space of Bowman's capsule.
The process of filtration of the blood in the Bowman's capsule is ultrafiltration (or glomerular filtration), and the normal rate of filtration is 125 ml/min, equivalent to ten times the blood volume daily. Measuring the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) is a diagnostic test of kidney function.
The filtrate is formed as a liquid which is forced to pass through the walls of glomerulus.
glomerular filtration. the process by which glomerular filtrate is formed, involving the balance of pressures across the walls of the glomerular capillaries. inherent filtration. attenuation of the primary x-ray beam as a result of its passage out of the x-ray tube through the insulating medium and tube window.
The Urinary System is a group of organs in the body concerned with filtering out excess fluid and other substances from the bloodstream. The substances are filtered out from the body in the form of urine. Urine is a liquid produced by the kidneys, collected in the bladder and excreted through the urethra.
The filtrate is composed of water, ions (sodium, potassium, chloride), glucose and small proteins (less than 30,000 daltons -- a dalton is a unit of molecular weight). The rate of filtration is approximately 125 ml/min or 45 gallons (180 liters) each day.
The filtrate, only now called urine, is produced continually by each kidney and drips into the bladder for storage. The bladder is an expandable bag, and when it is full, stretch receptors in the elastic walls send impulses to the medulla, which causes the sphincter muscles to relax, causing urination.