ORIGIN OF THE SURNAME WILLIS. Some research indicates the surname ISN'T of Welsh origin, but of Norman origin. Supposedly the Willises came to England with William the Conquerer in the 11th century. The surname, Willis, also, doesn't have any other roots in England, Scotland, Ireland or Wales, although there are plenty of Willises scattered about these four countries at this time. They originally came during the Norman invasion
English name. In English, the name Willis means-Resolute protector; will. Surname.. Other origins for the name Willis include-English, German, German.The name Willis is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-Resolute protector; will. Surname
Willis, a variant of the name William, is a surname, of Scottish and English origin meaning (Son of William). Notable persons with that surname include: 
It is however arguably of early Germanic or Anglo-Saxon pre 7th century origins deriving from the popular personal name William, composed of the elements wil meaning will or desire, and helm, a helmet or protector. An interesting namebearer, recorded in the Dictionary of National Biography, was Francis Willis (1718 - 1807), a physician who attended King George 111rd in his first attack of madness in 1788, and who became popular at court. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Walter Wilys
There is more to Willis family history than the origin of your surname: Start your Genealogy to find your personal Willis family ancestry. It's easy to get started. Just begin your family tree with what you already know. Learn More. 
You can find out when most of the Willis families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Willis families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival,