Report Abuse. Giant panda bears are endangered for a variety or reasons including reduced habitat and increased poaching but in all honesty the main reason is that they are an evolutionary dead end. They should eat meat but they eat bamboo as an evolutionary adaptation. Unfortunately they can't really digest it properly. 
The giant panda is a conservation reliant endangered species. A 2007 report shows 239 pandas living in captivity inside China and another 27 outside the country. As of December 2014, 49 giant pandas live in captivity outside China, living in 18 zoos in 13 different countries. 
Let us discover why are pandas endangered. With its cuddly appearance and peaceful nature, pandas are one of the world’s beloved animals. A decade ago, giant pandas were plentiful all throughout Asia specifically in China. The pandas are classified as endangered species and are primarily threatened by their habitat destruction and low birth rate. In the primitive times, giant pandas were subject to excessive poaching by overseas people since it was hosted in the west.
Panda bears are endangered because people use too much bamboo (a panda's food source) for chopsticks, wooden pencils, and other things. Pandas are endangered because the Chinese cut their food source (bamboo) to make their supplies (brushes, chopsticks, etc.) Because the panda's food supply is low, pandas star … ve. Pandas can't give birth properly without the proper foods, so the panda population is low. 4 people found this useful.
If you mean, why are pandas endangered, i can answer that. Pandas are endangered because people are cutting down their forests. Also, hunters have been hunting pandas for thei … r fur. There are only about maybe 1,000 pandas living in the wild now. Pandas are endangered because the Chinese cut their food source (bamboo) to make their supplies (brushes, chopsticks, etc.) Because the panda's food supply is low, pandas star … ve. Pandas can't give birth properly without the proper foods, so the panda population is low. 4 people found this useful.
The giant panda is listed as endangered in the World Conservation Union's (IUCN's) Red List of Threatened Species. There are about 1,600 left in the wild. More than 300 pandas live in zoos and breeding centers around the world, mostly in China. The giant panda, a black-and-white bear, has a body typical of bears. It has black fur on ears, eye patches, muzzle, legs, and shoulders. The rest of the animal's coat is white.
Giant pandas are bears that are native to China, where they are considered a national treasure. Even with this exalted status, giant pandas are endangered: only about 1,600 live in the wild, according to the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). About 100 live in zoos around the world. Also called great pandas, parti-colored bears, bamboo bears and white bears, giant pandas are distinguished from other pandas by their large size and black-and-white coloring. The bold coloring may provide camouflage, according to the Smithsonian National Zoo. Giant pandas live up to their name.
If you mean, why are pandas endangered, i can answer that. Pandas are endangered because people are cutting down their forests. Also, hunters have been hunting pandas for thei … r fur. There are only about maybe 1,000 pandas living in the wild now. Pandas are endangered because the Chinese cut their food source (bamboo) to make their supplies (brushes, chopsticks, etc.) Because the panda's food supply is low, pandas star … ve. Pandas can't give birth properly without the proper foods, so the panda population is low. 4 people found this useful.