The National Electrical Code (NEC), or NFPA 70, is a regionally adoptable standard for the safe installation of electrical wiring and equipment in the United States. It is part of the National Fire Codes series published by the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), a private trade association. The NEC is approved as an American national standard by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI). It is formally identified as ANSI/NFPA 70. First published in 1897, the NEC is updated and published every three years.
Initialism [edit]. NEC. 1  Not Elsewhere Classified, a phrase used in classification codes such as Standard Industrial Classification, International Standard Classification of Occupations, DSM-IV-TR, DSM-5, ICD-9, and ICD-10. 2  National Exhibition Centre. 3  National Executive Committee (of a political party). 4  Nippon Electric Company, Ltd. 5  National Electrical Code: its ... 
NEC. NEC Corporation is a Japanese multinational provider of information technology services and products, with its headquarters in Minato, Tokyo, Japan. NEC provides information technology and network solutions to business enterprises, communications services providers and to government agencies
The NEC is developed by NFPA's Committee on the National Electrical Code, which consists of 19 (20 in 2008) code-making panels and a technical correlating committee. Work on the NEC is sponsored by the National Fire Protection Association. The NEC is approved as an American national standard by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI). It is formally identified as ANSI/NFPA 70. First published in 1897, the NEC is updated and published every three years.
Search By Abbreviation For... nec. The acronyms/abbreviations matching your exact search criteria are shown below (limited to 200 results): If you find an abbreviation that is missing from our database, please use our feedback form to send it to us. Percentage figures relate to popularity.
• NEC (noun). The noun NEC has 1 sense: 1. an acute inflammatory disease occurring in the intestines of premature infants; necrosis of intestinal tissue may follow. Familiarity information: NEC used as a noun is very rare. 
A: Nippon Electric Company, Ltd. (*1) was established in Tokyo, Japan in 1899 with Western Electric Company of the United States to become the first Japanese joint venture with foreign capital. (*1). Nippon Electric Company, Limited officially became NEC Corporation in 1983.
Nec Medical Coding Abbreviation. What Is Nos Mean In medical coding | Steven Blog. What is nos mean in medical coding Encoding Definition AAPC Medical Coding & Billing Forums. What does the medical abbreviation NOS. What does NEC and NOS mean on a medical. Slanted brackets are used in the Index to Diseases of the ICD-9-CM coding book and they identify manifestation codes. … Read More