1 To type accent grave (a, à, e), è ` (etc type to the left) of 1 then. 2  The vowel (accent), aigu ' (e é) type single. 3  Quote (then), e ' cedille cédille. 4  C (ç), type ^ (then + c) circonflexe e. 5  ê (type), shift  (6 + ') then e. 6  Trema tréma Oe ö type « » shift then + o + [ to ], type.  french quotation marks use ctrl alt and respectively
For example, to type e, é, e è e, ê. or e. ë, hold, and press one two. Three or four times stop the mouse over each button to. learn its keyboard shortcut a button-to insert. Its + upper case form alt click a button to copy a single. Character to the clipboard you can. select text and press to copy­it. to your docu ment
The ALT key can help you access alt codes, or characters that aren't readily available on a normal keyboard. These codes can be used to write in foreign languages, mathematical equations, or to add fun symbols to your messages. Below ☟ is how to do it on a PC or a Mac, then a list of symbols such as π, º, ♫ and ♥ . Ad.
Alt Codes, list of alt key codes alt symbols and characters. This is the alt code characters table from 0-255 decimal numbers. Check how to use alt code characters to learn the use of alt codes.
Use curly quotes and long dashes Font: This page allows you to easily type French accents and other French characters without a French keyboard. You can edit your text in the box and then copy it to your document, e-mail message, etc. Help. Press. with the appropriate letter. For example, to type e, é, e è e, ê. or e. ë, hold, and press one two. Three or four times stop the mouse over each button to. learn its keyboard shortcut a button-to insert. its upper case form
Learn how to key in Alt codes on a laptop. Press the Num Lock key. (If it's blue or grey, hold down the Fn key before pressing it.) The Number Lock activated the gray or blue keys on your keyboard; they should be arranged in a square. Hold down the ALT key, hit the & then the # and then use these numbers.
Special symbols are used to indicate the correct pronunciation of French words. Most of the word processing applications support French symbols. Insert these symbols into the documents using the various preconfigured key combinations. You can easily type French words with Alt codes by pressing the Alt key and a specific numeric code. Make sure to use the numeric keypad and not the numeric keys on top of the keyboard.