Then, we used those coordinates to calculate look angles (azimuth and elevation) from the observer's position to an orbiting satellite. The most difficult part of that process was in calculating the sidereal time, a quantity necessary to determines the Earth's orientation in inertial space. 
The distance = SQRT((x2 –x1)2+(y2 –y1)2+(z2 –z1)2). The plunge = arcsin ((z2 – z1) / distance). The azimuth = arctan((x2 –x1)/(y2 –y1)) (always in two dimensions). The value θ returned will be in the range of ±90° and must be corrected to give the true azimuth over the range of 0 to 360°. You can also use the direction cosines of the line (the slopes on the xy, xz and yz planes). In Python: I have come across a similar question on this site that calculates it the other way around (with a given starting coordinate and a given Distance, Azimuth and Dip and it calculates an end coordinate.). I have been trying to figure it out and I am sure its very simple.
1 Calculate path direction (azimuth) given starting and ending coordinates. 2  Calculate end point (latitude/longitude) given a starting point, distance, and azimuth. 3  Calculate the azimuth and elevation angle to a geostationary satellite (where to point a satellite dish). Given {lat1, lon1, distance, azimuth} calculate {lat2, lon2}. First, work backwards (relative to Problem 1A) and find b from the distance by dividing by the Earth radius. b = distance / (Earth Radius) making sure distance and (Earth Radius) are the same units so that we end up with b in radians.
If = 0 then. To calculate the azimuth of the sun or a star given its declination and hour angle at our location, we modify the formula for a spherical earth. Replace with declination and longitude difference with hour angle, and change the sign (since hour angle is positive westward instead of east). Moving clockwise on a 360 degree circle, east has azimuth 90°, south 180°, and west 270°. There are exceptions: some navigation systems use south as the reference vector. Any direction can be the reference vector, as long as it is clearly defined.
1 Calculate end point (latitude/longitude) given a starting point, distance, and azimuth. 2  Calculate the azimuth and elevation angle to a geostationary satellite (where to point a satellite dish). 3  Calculate the intersection of two paths given starting and ending coordinates for each path. Given {lat1, lon1, distance, azimuth} calculate {lat2, lon2}. First, work backwards (relative to Problem 1A) and find b from the distance by dividing by the Earth radius. b = distance / (Earth Radius) making sure distance and (Earth Radius) are the same units so that we end up with b in radians.
I have two XYZ coordinates and I would like to calculate the Distance, Azimuth and Dip between them. I have come across a similar question on this site that calculates it the other way around (with a given starting coordinate and a given Distance, Azimuth and Dip and it calculates an end coordinate.). I have been trying to figure it out and I am sure its very simple.
The azimuth is the angle formed between a reference direction (North) and a line from the observer to a point of interest projected on the same plane as the reference direction orthogonal to the zenith. Moving clockwise on a 360 degree circle, east has azimuth 90°, south 180°, and west 270°. There are exceptions: some navigation systems use south as the reference vector. Any direction can be the reference vector, as long as it is clearly defined.
The formulas that you refer to in the text are to calculate the great circle distance between 2 points. Here's how I calculate the angle between points: Remember to handle the situation where 2 points are equal (check if the result equals cNO_ANGLE, or modify the function to throw an exception); This function assumes that you're on a flat surface.
a = azimuth L1, L2 = longitude B1, B2 = latitude. The error will be larger as the coordinates move away from the equator because there the distance between two longitudinal degrees becomes increasingly smaller than the one between two latitudinal degrees (which remains constant). Here's how I calculate the angle between points: Remember to handle the situation where 2 points are equal (check if the result equals cNO_ANGLE, or modify the function to throw an exception); This function assumes that you're on a flat surface.
Azimuth/Distance calculator-by Don Cross. Given the latitude, longitude, and elevation of two points on the Earth, this calculator determines the azimuth (compass direction) and distance of the second point (B) as seen from the first point (A). See also: Latitude/Longitude Calculator.