This eliminates you paying an unknown amount when all is said and done. The cost of hiring an interior designer varies greatly. Most charge per hour, with the current market rate between $50 and $200 per hour. You would pay this in addition to the cost of furniture, accessories, artwork, etc. Some interior designers charge their clients by marking up the decor they choose. 
1 Hourly rates-this is for a smaller project and pays the designer based on the actual amount of time that they contribute to a specific project. 2  Current market prices vary between $50 and $200 per hour, depending on the designer; and. The American Society of Interior Designers stresses that there is no such thing as a 'typical'...fee for an interior designer. They do indicate that most professionals will charge in one of four ways 1  : Cost plus-this is a somewhat traditional method used in all types of assignments.
1 Consultation with designer on a bedroom decorating project; 2  Agreement on terms of the arrangement, which is going to usually include a discussion on the costs per service such as retainer amount, design fee, color selection, purchasing, etc; and. 3  Budget is set at $6,000 and will include all services. The American Society of Interior Designers stresses that there is no such thing as a 'typical'...fee for an interior designer. They do indicate that most professionals will charge in one of four ways 1  : Cost plus-this is a somewhat traditional method used in all types of assignments.
1 Budget is set at $6,000 and will include all services. 2  Hourly rates-this is for a smaller project and pays the designer based on the actual amount of time that they contribute to a specific project. 3  Current market prices vary between $50 and $200 per hour, depending on the designer; and. The American Society of Interior Designers stresses that there is no such thing as a 'typical'...fee for an interior designer. They do indicate that most professionals will charge in one of four ways 1  : Cost plus-this is a somewhat traditional method used in all types of assignments.
NEXT STEP. Find out how much your project will cost. Provide a few details about your project and receive competitive quotes from local pros. On average nationally, hiring an interior decorator or designer costs $7,125, with most homeowners spending between $5,544 and $8,706. If you decide to hire a professional for decorating your house, make sure you know the right kind of one that you need. An interior decorator specializes in finding the right furnishings for your home, while an interior designer focuses more on the planning and functionality of furnishing a room. What also sets them apart is their knowledge. Decorators know about color swatches, furniture resources and creating your ideal room.
If your building costs $1,000,000.00 and the architect charges 10% his fee is $100,000 making the total value of the house $1,100,00.00. It is important to understand that decisions made with the architect/designer are decisions that you will be living with for many years to com. 
Average Costs. Nationally, the average price paid to a landscape designer is about $5,200. The range for most homeowners is between $4,200 and $6,200, but keep in mind that fees can vary considerably. The most in-depth projects may cost more than $10,000 to plan due to the significant number of variables at play. 
1 Current market prices vary between $50 and $200 per hour, depending on the designer; and. 2  Square foot basis-this is usually the manner by which commercial work is done and it pays the designer a fixed amount per square foot of space. The American Society of Interior Designers stresses that there is no such thing as a 'typical'...fee for an interior designer. They do indicate that most professionals will charge in one of four ways 1  : Cost plus-this is a somewhat traditional method used in all types of assignments.
1 You could be charged by the hour at $100 to $200 per hour depending on the designer’s experience, reputation, and the local market. 2  Basic kitchen material and layout advice could cost as little as $100 to $750 at your local Home Depot or kitchen retailer/showroom. 1 The industry standard for beginning-to-end kitchen design consultation is 10% of the total project cost. 2  For example, if your new kitchen costs $30,000, the design fee would be $3,000. 3  For redesigns costing more than $100,000, the rate might drop to 8 percent.
1 The cost of an interior lighting designer might be approximately $75 to $150 per hour. 2  Bear in mind, however, that a big name designer could charge much more and an inexperienced or under-qualified designer might charge less. 