Note to parents. If you are a parent and claiming Income Support, you must also make a separate claim for Child Tax Credit. Income Support only includes money for adults. You do not have to claim Child Tax Credit if you are already on Income Support and still get extra money for your children as part of this payment.
You can claim Income Support if all of the following statements are true: 1  you are aged at least 16 and are under pension age (state pension age for men is currently 65; state pension age for women is gradually rising from 60 to 65; the upper age limit for claiming Income Support is also gradually increasing).
1 you are aged at least 16 and are under pension age (state pension age for men is currently 65; state pension age for women is gradually rising from 60 to 65; the upper age limit for claiming Income Support is also gradually increasing).
Only qualifying children have an age test. A qualifying child must be under 19 at the end of the year. If your child is a full-time student, you can claim an exemption until she's 24 years old. If she becomes permanently and totally disabled, you can potentially claim her as a dependent at any age.
Amount-With the Child Tax Credit, you may be able to reduce your federal income tax by up to $1,000 for each qualifying child under the age of 17. Qualification-A qualifying child for this credit is someone who meets the qualifying criteria of six tests: age, relationship, support, dependent, citizenship, and residence.
You can claim Income Support if you’re all of the following: 1  below the age you can claim Pension Credit. 2  a carer or, in some cases, if you’re sick or disabled, or a single parent with a child under 5. 3  on a low income and have less than £16,000 in savings.
1. You may be able to get income support if you meet all the eligibility criteria. The actual amount you get depends on your circumstances, but if you qualify and have no income you’ll get at least £57.90 a week. You can claim Child Tax Credit if you claim Income Support and have children.
Income Support is a benefit for people under Pension Credit qualifying age and living on a low income. If you can't work for whatever reason or don't work many hours, you may get some support to top up your income.