The cost of a home appraisal depends on multiple factors, including region. The average price of a home appraisal was $438 in 2014, according to Bankrate's annual closing-costs survey. Highest Average Appraisal Costs. At $620, Hawaii had the highest average cost for a home appraisal in 2014. Alaska had the second highest-priced appraisal fees, with an average of $530.
Appraisal Costs. The actual cost of a home appraisal depends largely on the size of a home and the extent of the appraisal. The standard appraisal rate is between $300 and $700 in 2010. Appraisers, though, generally charge more for larger homes and more valuable homes. Appraisals that do not require the appraiser to go inside the home are less costly, but they are also less common. Most appraisals require full inspections of a home. Appraisers also charge extra for certain costs. One Los Angeles firm, A1 Los Angeles Home Appraisal, charges $75 to $150 for travel costs for some appraisals. The company also charges $50 when customers require an appraisal within two days of an inspection and $100 more for FHA appraisals, which require a lengthier report
Even when both sides agree on a price, the deal could fall apart thanks to an under-appraisal. Here's the increasingly common scenario: The seller lists the house for $325,000, the buyer offers $275,000 and they settle on a $300,000 sales price. A week before closing, the appraisal comes in at $265,000, the maximum upon which the bank or mortgage company is willing to lend.
Real Estate Appraisal Costs. Average costs for an official home appraisal depends on the size of your home and where it is located geographically. Larger homes are more expensive to appraise than smaller homes. Homes in places with higher costs of living will naturally cost more than a home appraisal in a less expensive area. For the average home, it will cost $300 to $600 for a professional home appraisal. Facts about Real Estate Appraisal. 
A home appraisal adds several hundred dollars to your closing costs on a purchase or refinance. The appraisal process generally involves an interior and exterior inspection of the property, an evaluation of comparable home prices in the area, and a formal report with a professional opinion of the home's value. Highest Average Appraisal Costs. At $620, Hawaii had the highest average cost for a home appraisal in 2014. Alaska had the second highest-priced appraisal fees, with an average of $530.
Appraisal Costs. Appraisals typically cost anywhere from $250 to $500. The cost will vary based on property type, location, and square footage. Multi-unit properties and properties in rural areas will usually cost more to be appraised than a single-family residence in a densely populated area. 
The price of a commercial appraisal can vary by hundreds or even thousands of dollars depending on the appraiser. Therefor we put your assignment out for bid with several of our commercial appraisers in the area of your property. Typical Home Appraisal Cost. Actual fees might be higher or lower depending on the specifics of your property. Please call 866-533-7173 or fill out form to your right for a free Quote on the exact fee and turn time.
The cost of a home appraisal can vary greatly, depending on your geographic location. The square footage of the home and the availability of comps may also be significant cost factors. On average, the appraisal of a single family home should be about $327. Hello, Usually appraisal cost's can vary however median price for a Single Family home would be $450.00. Depending on the size of property, it can vary. A Realtor would be able to give you comparable's at no charge if you would like to know how much your home will sell for in today's market.