At Maddie & Bella Coffee Company, we take what we do very seriously. After all, you can't get the perfect cup of coffee just anywhere. Great coffee comes from the freshest beans, carefully selected for their unique flavor and aromatic qualities, and roasted in small batches to ensure perfection.
Career [edit]. Bell was born in Newark, New Jersey, United States. She worked as a session singer, most notably backing for Dusty Springfield, and can be found on early Donna Summer material as well. Bell was the voice behind the 1980s advertising campaign for Brooke Bond D, a brand of tea bag in the UK. The music was composed by Ronnie Bond. She also provided vocals on the jingles of another 1980s advertising campaign, British Gas 's Wonderfuel Gas, which began in 1982.
Actress. Maddie Bell is an actress, known for Killer Teens (2012) and Army Wives (2007). 
What sometimes annoys Maddie is that everyone says that Liv is cute, although it doesn't seem practical to Maddie because Liv and Maddie have the same face. Maddie is a very pretty tomboy who chooses high tops over high heels and she is a very good player and is just like her sister. 1 Maddie is more academic, compared to her sister Liv. 2  She often uses the number 5 due to her thinking that 5 was her lucky number until the events of Sweet 16-A-Rooney. 3  Maddie became girly for the first time in Shoe-A-Rooney. 4  She failed her driving test in Switch-A-Rooney while Liv passed.
1 Maddie and Joey are the only people in the Rooney house who wear glasses. 2  Maddie LOVES to win. 3  She likes to be competitive. 4  It is unknown why Maddie and her twin Liv got blonde hair, while her parents and brothers have brown/black hair, perhaps her parents are carriers of the trait for blonde hair. 1 Maddie is more academic, compared to her sister Liv. 2  She often uses the number 5 due to her thinking that 5 was her lucky number until the events of Sweet 16-A-Rooney. 3  Maddie became girly for the first time in Shoe-A-Rooney. 4  She failed her driving test in Switch-A-Rooney while Liv passed.
Madeline Bell (born July 23, 1942) is an American soul singer, who became famous as a performer in the UK during the 1960s, having arrived from the US in the gospel show Black Nativity in 1962, with vocal group the Bradford Singers. Bell was the voice behind the 1980s advertising campaign for Brooke Bond D, a brand of tea bag in the UK. The music was composed by Ronnie Bond. She also provided vocals on the jingles of another 1980s advertising campaign, British Gas 's Wonderfuel Gas, which began in 1982.
Early life. Ziegler was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, to Melissa Ziegler-Gisoni and Kurt Ziegler, who owned a mortgage company. She is of Polish, German and Italian descent. Her parents divorced in 2011, citing the financial and emotional toll that dance took on the family. Ziegler at the opening of Abby Lee Miller 's dance studio in Santa Monica, California, May 2015. Madison Maddie Nicole Ziegler (born September 30, 2002) is an American child dancer, actress and model.
Madison Maddie Rooney is one of the two main protagonists alongside her twin sister Liv in the Disney Channel original series, Liv and Maddie. She's the tomboy compared to her sister, but there are times where she reveals her girly side. 1 Maddie is more academic, compared to her sister Liv. 2  She often uses the number 5 due to her thinking that 5 was her lucky number until the events of Sweet 16-A-Rooney. 3  Maddie became girly for the first time in Shoe-A-Rooney. 4  She failed her driving test in Switch-A-Rooney while Liv passed.