Abnormal psychology is a division of psychology that studies people who are  abnormal  or  atypical  compared to the members of a given society. There is evidence that some psychological disorders are more common than was previously thought. With this definition it is necessary to be clear about how rare a trait or behavior needs to be before we class it as abnormal. For instance one may say that an individual who has an IQ below or above the average level of IQ in society i
Violation of Social Norms. Under this definition, a person's thinking or behavior is classified as abnormal if it violates the (unwritten) rules about what is expected or acceptable behavior in a particular social group. Their behavior may be incomprehensible to others or make others feel threatened or uncomfortable. With this definition it is necessary to be clear about how rare a trait or behavior needs to be before we class it as abnormal. For instance one may say that an individual who has an IQ below or above the average level of IQ in society i
1. Deviation from social norms. Abnormality can be defined as a deviation from social norms This means that we label people as abnormal if their behaviour is different from what we accept as the norms of society.Some social norms are explicit, which means they are legal written laws. While other social norms are implicit and are unwritten, or unspoken rules in society. If people break these rules, then they are deviating away from social norms and therefore, could be labeled as abnormal.This definition of abnormality can be applied to certain behaviours.
1 Social norms change over time and therefore it is problematic to determine abnormality as a deviation from social norms. 2  Historically this definition has been wrongly applied to groups of individuals who are not abnormal but fail to meet the social norms of the society. While other social norms are implicit and are unwritten, or unspoken rules in society. If people break these rules, then they are deviating away from social norms and therefore, could be labeled as abnormal.This definition of abnormality can be applied to certain behaviours.
This definition also implies that the presence of abnormal behavior in people should be rare or statistically unusual, which is not the case. Instead, any specific abnormal behavior may be unusual, but it is not unusual for people to exhibit some form of prolonged abnormal behavior at some point in their lives. With this definition it is necessary to be clear about how rare a trait or behavior needs to be before we class it as abnormal. For instance one may say that an individual who has an IQ below or above the average level of IQ in society i
Psychology is the study of human thoughts, feelings and behaviors. Abnormal psychology is the study of abnormal thoughts, feelings and behaviors. Abnormal thoughts, feelings and behaviors may or may not be part of a larger mental illness, or psychopathology. Somatogenic theory states that abnormality is caused by a biological disorder or illness. In the example above, somatogenic theory would say that there's something wrong with her brain. Perhaps she has damage to the left side of her brain, which causes language disorders.
Abnormality can be defined as a deviation from ideal mental health. This means that psychologists consider the characteristics of mental health, rather than mental illness. According to this definition, people should ‘meet’ certain criteria to be considered normal'. While other social norms are implicit and are unwritten, or unspoken rules in society. If people break these rules, then they are deviating away from social norms and therefore, could be labeled as abnormal.This definition of abnormality can be applied to certain behaviours.
Abnormality (or dysfunctional behavior), in the vivid sense of something deviating from the normal or differing from the typical (such as an aberration), is a subjectively defined behavioral characteristic, assigned to those with rare or dysfunctional conditions. There are five main criteria of abnormality. They are 1. statistical criterion 2. social criterion 3. personal discomfort 4. maladaptive behaviour 5. deviation from ideal. 1  One criterion for abnormality that may appear to apply in the case of abnormal behavior is statistical infrequency
abnormality. 1. the state of being unlike the usual condition. 2. a malformation. inherited abnormality. a defect of anatomy or function acquired by the patient from its parents by way of inherited material passed through the germ cells from which the patient originated. left atrial abnormality an atrial conduction abnormality accompanied by an enlarged left atrium; on the electrocardiogram it is seen as notched upright P waves in leads I, II, and V4 to V6, and a deep broad terminal trough in V1.