Louis is also the French way to spell it.. all mean the same,.. Louis is English and French, Lewis is American or British, Louis sounds fine.. most common way of spelling it.. in France, USA and Britain...even in Germany they prefer Louis to Luis.. In the US, Louis and Lewis are pronounced the same way-LOU-iss. Lewis can either be a first of last name. Luis is Spanish and prounounced loo-EES, accent on the second syllable In German the name is Ludwig and in Italian Luigi.
Lewis is a surname in the English language. It has several independent origins. One of origins of the surname, in England and Wales, is from the Norman personal name Lowis, Lodovicus. This name is composed of the Germanic elements hlod and wig, meaning fame and war. The name developed into the Old French Clovis, Clouis, Louis; as well as into the German Ludwig. One such name is Llywelyn in Welsh which has been Anglicised into Lewis, with among the earliest examples being the Lewis family of Glamorgan in the 1540s. Another is the Gaelic surname Mac Lughaidh, meaning son of Lughaidh , which has also been Anglicised as Lewis.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Louis and Lewis can be pronounced the same, just diff spelling. Louis can be pronounced Loo-ie Not heard of the spelling Luis so can't help with that one. Lewis is a surname too. In the US, Louis and Lewis are pronounced the same way-LOU-iss. Lewis can either be a first of last name. Luis is Spanish and prounounced loo-EES, accent on the second syllable In German the name is Ludwig and in Italian Luigi.
Louis (UK /ˈluːi/ or US /ˈluːɪs/ ; [lwi]) is the French form of the Old Frankish given name Chlodowig (Modern German: Ludwig) and one of two English forms, the other being Lewis (/ˈluːɪs/). The Frankish name is composed of the words for fame (hlōd) and warrior (wīg) which may be translated to famous warrior or famous in battle. Wikisource has the text of the 1911 Encyclopaedia Encyclopædia britannica Article. Louis (LOUIS /uk/ ˈluːi OR /us/ ; [ˈluːɪs]) lwi is The french form of The Old frankish given Name (Chlodowig Modern: German) ludwig and one of Two english, forms the other Being (/lewis/). ˈluːɪs
One of the most natable bearers of the name was the American explorer Meriwether Lewis (1774 - 1807), who, with William Clark, led an overland expedition from St. Louis to the Pacific Ocean in the early years of the 19th Century. Lowis or Lewis is the Anglo-French form of the name, and Lowis le Briton was entered in the Red Book of the Exchequer, Essex, in 1166. The surname first appears on record at the beginning of the 13th Century (see below). William Lewys was noted as a witness in the 1267 Fines Court Rolls of Suffolk
Lewis is the best spelling to choose if you want this pronounced with the S. Lewis has been in the Top 5 in Scotland since 2000, and is one that parents in the U.S. are just beginning to rethink. Lewis was a Top 100 name in this country from 1880 to 1930, reaching Number 30 in 1880. One of its most famous namesakes is Lewis Carroll, born Charles. A current bearer is comedian Lewis Black.
Recorded in over fifty different spellings from Lewis, Lois, Lowis and Loisi, to such as Ludovici, Lotze, Lohde, and Ludwikiewicz, throughout Europe this great and ancient name is generally accepted as being of pre 5th century Frankish origins. Lowis or Lewis is the Anglo-French form of the name, and Lowis le Briton was entered in the Red Book of the Exchequer, Essex, in 1166. The surname first appears on record at the beginning of the 13th Century (see below). William Lewys was noted as a witness in the 1267 Fines Court Rolls of Suffolk
The British prefer the spelling Lewis, but the Americans opt for the French spelling Louis. Amazingly, Lewis is currently the second most popular name in Scotland, the 27th most popular in England/Wale and the 30th most popular in Northern Ireland. We think it’s safe to say that Lewis is sweeping across the whole of Great Britain. Lewis is also a popular name in Australia and New Zealand.