Dimension to operate along, specified as a positive integer scalar. If no value is specified, then the default is the first array dimension whose size does not equal 1. Consider a two-dimensional input array, A : cumsum(A,1) works on successive elements in the columns of A and returns the cumulative sums of each column. If A is a vector, then cumsum(A) returns a vector containing the cumulative sum of the elements of A. If A is a matrix, then cumsum(A) returns a matrix containing the cumulative sums for each column of A. If A is a multidimensional array, then cumsum(A) acts along the first nonsingleton dimension. example.
Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: waning (adj). a gradual decrease in magnitude or extent. the waning of his enthusiasm was obvious; the waxing and waning of the moon. waning (adj). (of the Moon) pertaining to the period during which the visible surface of the moon decreases. Wiktionary (1.00 / 1 vote) Rate this definition: waning (Noun). The fact or act of becoming less or less intense. the waning of her energy. waning (Noun). The fact or act of becoming smaller. the waning of the moon. waning (Adjective). Becoming weaker or smaller.
The Italian musical term affrettando affects the style and tempo of a song, and is also known as stringendo. Learn the meaning, pronunciation, and multilingual synonyms of the musical command affrettando. Share. The Italian musical phrase al coda -- meaning to the coda sign (lit. tail) -- is part of a system of musical repeats, and an indication to jump to the next coda sign.
Definition: The Italian musical command decrescendo (abbreviated decresc. ) is an indication to gradually decrease the volume of the music. The musical symbol for decrescendo is a narrowing angle, often followed by another dynamics command (see image). Opposite of crescendo. Also Known As: 1  diminuendo (It). 2  en decroissant; décroissant plus en plus; doux en (Diminuant). 3  fr; abnehmend leiser (Werdend).  ger
I have heard forecasts repeated, sometimes phrase by phrase and sometimes as a whole. They are generally read out reasonably slowly and clearly so as to be understandable by anyone with a modicum of French. Even non French speakers can get a good deal from this service. In my experience, CROSS Etel was usually very good, very slow and clear. 
Share. 8vb stands for ottava bassa, Italian for low octave.. In sheet music, the musical symbols 8vb and 15vb are used to avoid ledger lines too far from the staff. This can be expressed a few ways in piano music; learn the meaning, pronunciation, and synonyms of 8vb, and see it used in sheet music. Share. The Italian musical phrase al coda -- meaning to the coda sign (lit. tail) -- is part of a system of musical repeats, and an indication to jump to the next coda sign.
So the results are expressed as relative frequencies (frequences fréquences) - relatives rélatives that is the percentage of the total sample, with brown blue or = greeneyes, 40% 40 %and - 20 % and (the) numbers effectifs in = each, group 40 40. and 20 This seems to make a lot of sense in the context. (Other, more specific, terminology could, in fact, be more correct, but would not convey the meaning if it wasn't).
Description. example. B = cumsum(A) returns the cumulative sum of A starting at the beginning of the first array dimension in A whose size does not equal 1. If A is a vector, then cumsum(A) returns a vector containing the cumulative sum of the elements of A. If A is a matrix, then cumsum(A) returns a matrix containing the cumulative sums for each column of A. If A is a multidimensional array, then cumsum(A) acts along the first nonsingleton dimension. example.
The Ordre du Croissant (Order of the Crescent; Italian-Ordine della Luna Crescente) was a chivalric order founded by Charles I of Naples and Sicily in 1268. The Order of the Crescent, also known as Order of the Crescent in the Provence, a French chivalric order was founded on 11 August 1448 in Angers by King Rene of Provence as a court order.