The APPLET element is used to embed Java applets. It has been deprecated in HTML 4 in favor of the more generalized OBJECT element. However, since the few browsers that support OBJECT do so with significant bugs, APPLET is currently a more reliable method of embedding
A program designed to be executed from within another application. Unlike an application, applets cannot be executed directly from the operating system. With the growing popularity of OLE (object linking and embedding), applets are becoming more prevalent.
You must be signed in to rate articles. Design Web Design All Articles. Java Applets are usually used to add small, interactive components or enhancements to a webpage. These may consist of buttons, scrolling text, or stock tickers, but they can also be used to display larger programs like word processors or games.
Web browsers, which are often equipped with Java virtual machines, can interpret applets from Web servers. Because applets are small in files size, cross-platform compatible, and highly secure (can't be used to access users' hard drives), they are ideal for small Internet applications accessible from a browser.
Applet. An applet is a small application designed to run within another application. While the term applet is sometimes used to describe small programs included with a computer's operating system, it usually refers to Java applets, or small applications written in the Java programming language. Unlike ordinary applications, Java applets cannot be run directly by the operating system.
An applet is a Java program that runs in a Web browser. An applet can be a fully functional Java application because it has the entire Java API at its disposal.
An applet is a little application. Prior to the World Wide Web, the built-in writing and drawing programs that came with Windows were sometimes called applets.. On the Web, using Java, the object-oriented programming language, an applet is a small program that can be sent along with a Web page to a user. Java applets can perform interactive animations, immediate calculations, or other simple tasks without having to send a user request back to the server.