Campylobacter jejuni is the most commonly reported bacterial cause of foodborne infection in the United States. Adding to the human and economic costs are chronic sequelae associated with C. jejuni infection—Guillian-Barre barré syndrome and reactive. arthritis
It is a diarrheal illness caused by infection with the bacterium Campylobacter jejuni. It is the most common cause of bacterial diarrhea in New York State. Most cases are seen in the summer months and occur as single cases. Outbreaks are uncommon.
Campylobacter jejuni (formerly known as Campylobacter fetus subsp. jejuni). Campylobacter jejuni is a Gram-negative slender, curved, and motile rod. It is a microaerophilic organism, which means it has a requirement for reduced levels of oxygen.
Cause. Campylobacteriosis is caused by bacteria called Campylobacter. Campylobacter jejuni, C. fetus, and C. coli are the types that usually cause the disease in people. C. jejuni causes most cases of this foodborne disease. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, C. jejuni is the leading cause of bacterial diarrheal illness in the United States, affecting about 2.4 million people every year.
OIE Terrestrial Manual 2008 1185 CHAPTER 2.9.3. CAMPYLOBACTER JEJUNI AND CAMPYLOBACTER COLI SUMMARY Definition of the disease: Campylobacter jejuni and C. coli can colonise the intestinal tract of most mammals and birds and are the most frequently isolated Campylobacter species in humans with gastro-enteritis.
To research the causes of Campylobacter jejuni, consider researching the causes of these these diseases that may be similar, or associated with Campylobacter jejuni: 1  Food poisoning. 2  Cholera. 3  ETEC. 4  EHEC.
PATHOGENICITY: Campylobacter jejuni cause gastroenteritis, with the most common symptom being diarrhea (sometimes bloody) that lasts 2-10 days, as well as mild to severe abdominal pain, fever, malaise, nausea and vomiting. Symptoms last for about a week but relapses occur in 5-10% of untreated cases.