1 Mauritian temporary worker visa, is for people to work in an organisation in Mauritius. 2  Spousal visa or partner visa, given to the spouse, civil partner or de facto partner of a resident or Mauritian citizen. 3  Mauritian business visa, is for participating in short term commerce in Mauritius. 1 Mauritian Transit visa, is valid for 3 days or less, for transferring through port in Mauritius to a third destination. 2  On-arrival visa for Mauritius is given at a port of entry.
1 Mauritian tourist visa is granted for a short period of leisure travel and no business activities permitted. 2  Mauritian Transit visa, is valid for 3 days or less, for transferring through port in Mauritius to a third destination. 3  On-arrival visa for Mauritius is given at a port of entry. 1 Mauritian Transit visa, is valid for 3 days or less, for transferring through port in Mauritius to a third destination. 2  On-arrival visa for Mauritius is given at a port of entry.
In order to know where to apply, please click here. You may apply for this long stay visa or visitor visa if you intend to settle in France (for example as a retiree) and live there more than 90 days per semester. CAUTION: this visa DOES NOT allow you to work in France. The applicant has to apply for the visa and obtain it in his/her country of residence prior to leaving for France. You may apply with the French Consulate in Washington DC if you reside in one of the following states : Delaware, District of Columbia, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia.
Types of Mauritian Visas. 1  Mauritian tourist visa is granted for a short period of leisure travel and no business activities permitted. 2  Mauritian Transit visa, is valid for 3 days or less, for transferring through port in Mauritius to a third destination. 3  On-arrival visa for Mauritius is given at a port of entry. 1 Mauritian Transit visa, is valid for 3 days or less, for transferring through port in Mauritius to a third destination. 2  On-arrival visa for Mauritius is given at a port of entry.
To be eligible for a residence permit as a retired non-citizen you should be 50 years of age, or above, and must undertake to transfer, to your local bank account in Mauritius, at least USD 40,000 annually, or its equivalent in any freely convertible foreign currency. The law does not provide for a minimum number of days per year to stay in Mauritius under an Occupation Permit or Residence Permit. However, to be considered as a ‘resident’ for tax purposes, you should stay in Mauritius for a minimum of 183 days per calendar year.
This information explains what you need to do to apply for a Temporary Work (Short Stay Activity) visa (subclass 400). You and anyone included in your application must be outside Australia when the application is lodged and when the visa is decided. About this visa. The Temporary Work (Short Stay Activity) visa (subclass 400) is a temporary visa that lets you enter Australia to: 1  do short-term, highly specialised, non-ongoing work. 2  participate in an event or events on a non-ongoing basis at the invitation of an Australian organisation.
You can apply for this visa if you want to enter Australia to: 1  do short-term, highly specialised, non-ongoing work. 2  participate in a cultural or social event at the invitation of an organisation in Australia, or. 3  in limited circumstances, participate in an activity or work relating to Australia’s interests. About this visa. The Temporary Work (Short Stay Activity) visa (subclass 400) is a temporary visa that lets you enter Australia to: 1  do short-term, highly specialised, non-ongoing work. 2  participate in an event or events on a non-ongoing basis at the invitation of an Australian organisation.