Abstract. Genetic recombination refers to the exchange of DNA segments between chromosomes or other DNA molecules. In meiosis, genetic recombination ensures proper chromosome segregation and also reassorts DNA sequences on homologous chromosomes. Definitions. Genetic recombination refers to the rearrangement of DNA sequences by the breakage and rejoining of chromosomes or chromosome segments. It also describes the consequences of such rearrangements, that is, the inheritance of novel combinations of alleles in the offspring that carry recombinant chromosomes.
Recombination can occur between any two genes on a chromosome, the amount of crossing over is a function of how close the genes are to each other on the chromosome. If two genes are far apart, for example at opposite ends of the chromosome, crossover and non-crossover events will occur in equal frequency. The important question is how many recombinant chromosomes will be produced. If the genes are far apart on the chromosome a cross over will occur every time that pairing occurs and an equal number of parental and recombinant chromosomes will be produced. Test cross data will then generate a 1:1:1:1 ratio.
Genetic recombination is the production of offspring with combinations of traits that differ from those found in either parent. In eukaryotes, genetic recombination during meiosis can lead to a novel set of genetic information that can be passed on from the parents to the offspring. Most recombination is naturally occurring. In both meiotic and mitotic cells, recombination between homologous chromosomes is a common mechanism used in DNA repair. Genetic recombination and recombinational DNA repair also occurs in bacteria and archaea, which use asexual reproduction. Recombination can be artificially induced in laboratory (in vitro) settings, producing recombinant DNA for purposes including vaccine development
Homologous recombination is also used in horizontal gene transfer to exchange genetic material between different strains and species of bacteria and viruses. It is most widely used by cells to accurately repair harmful breaks that occur on both strands of DNA, known as double-strand breaks. Homologous recombination also produces new combinations of DNA sequences during meiosis, the process by which eukaryotes make gamete cells, like sperm and egg cells in animals.
In this video Paul Andersen explains how the frequency of recombination between linked genes can be used to determine the relative location of genes on a chromosome. Thomas Hunt Morgan and Alfred Strutevant used the fruit fly to develop a theory of chromosomal inheritance and discover crossing over. 
After all, the farther apart two genes were on a chromosome, the more likely it was that these genes would separate during recombination. Therefore, as Sturtevant explained it, the proportion of crossovers could be used as an index of the distance between any two factors (Sturtevant, 1913). Figure 2: Allele recombination. Recombination is the sorting of alleles into new combinations. Following the formation of gametes over two generations shows how recombination can produce new allelic combinations (lower right) or stay the same (lower left). © 2014 Nature Education Adapted from Pierce, Benjamin.
Homologous recombination is a type of genetic recombination in which nucleotide sequences are exchanged between two similar or identical molecules of DNA. It is most widely used by cells to accurately repair harmful breaks that occur on both strands of DNA, known as double-strand breaks. Homologous recombination also produces new combinations of DNA sequences during meiosis, the process by which eukaryotes make gamete cells, like sperm and egg cells in animals.
Genetic Recombination & Gene Mapping. Paul Andersen explains how the frequency of recombination between linked genes can be used to determine the relative location of genes on a chromosome. Thomas Hunt Morgan and Alfred Strutevant used the fruit fly to develop a theory of chromosomal inheritance and discover crossing over