Knowledge center. Hypothyroidism, also known as underactive thyroid, is a condition where the thyroid gland does not create enough of a thyroid hormone called thyroxine. Thyroid hormones regulate the way in which the body uses energy-metabolism-and without enough thyroxine many of the body's functions slow down
Hypothyroidism is a condition that occurs when the thyroid gland does not produce enough thyroid hormones to meet the needs of the body. The thyroid creates two thyroid hormones, triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) that regulate metabolism. They also affect the following: 1. Hypothyroidism, also known as underactive thyroid, is a condition where the thyroid gland does not create enough of a thyroid hormone called thyroxine. Thyroid hormones regulate the way in which the body uses energy-metabolism-and without enough thyroxine many of the body's functions slow down
With Hashimoto’s disease, the immune system makes antibodies that damage thyroid cells and interfere with their ability to make thyroid hormone. Over time, thyroid damage can cause thyroid hormone levels to be too low. This is called an underactive thyroid or hypothyroidism (heye-poh-THEYE-royd-ism). If you have symptoms of Hashimoto’s disease, your doctor will do an exam and order one or more tests. Sometimes, routine screening of thyroid function reveals a mildly underactive thyroid in a person with no symptoms. Tests used to find out if you have Hashimoto’s disease include: 1  Thyroid function tests.
1 Thyroiditis is an inflammation of the thyroid gland. 2  This can lower the amount of hormones produced. 3  Hashimoto's thyroiditis is a painless disease of the immune system that is hereditary. 4  Postpartum thyroiditis occurs in 5 percent to 9 percent of women after giving birth. There are several different causes of thyroid disease. The following conditions cause hypothyroidism: 1 
Hashimoto's disease is the most common cause of hypothyroidism in the United States. It primarily affects middle-aged women but also can occur in men and women of any age and in children. Doctors test your thyroid function to help detect Hashimoto's disease. Thyroid gland. Hashimoto's disease is a condition in which your immune system attacks your thyroid, a small gland at the base of your neck below your Adam's apple. The thyroid gland is part of your endocrine system, which produces hormones that coordinate many of your body's activities
Hashimoto’s disease is an autoimmune disease that affects the thyroid. It also is called Hashimoto’s thyroiditis (theye-royd-EYET-uhss). The thyroid is a small gland in the front of the neck. The thyroid makes hormones called T3 and T4 that regulate how the body uses energy. If you have symptoms of Hashimoto’s disease, your doctor will do an exam and order one or more tests. Sometimes, routine screening of thyroid function reveals a mildly underactive thyroid in a person with no symptoms. Tests used to find out if you have Hashimoto’s disease include: 1  Thyroid function tests.
A thyroid disease is a medical condition impairing the function of the thyroid. Different thyroid diseases include Hashimoto's thyroiditis, hyperthyroidism and hypothyroidism. These diseases have a large range of symptoms and affect all ages. Imbalance in production of thyroid hormones arises from dysfunction of the thyroid gland itself, the pituitary gland, which produces thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), or the hypothalamus, which regulates the pituitary gland via thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH).