cephalic vein, one of the four superficial veins of the upper limb. It receives deoxygenated blood from the dorsal and palmar surfaces of the forearm. Compare basilic vein, dorsal digital vein, median antebrachial vein. ce·phal·ic vein. subcutaneous vein that arises at the radial border of the dorsal venous network of the hand, passes upward anterior to the elbow and along the lateral side of the arm; it empties into the upper part of the axillary vein.
• BASILIC VEIN (noun). The noun BASILIC VEIN has 1 sense: 1. a vein that drains the back of the hand and forearm and empties into the axillary vein. Familiarity information: BASILIC VEIN used as a noun is very rare. A vein that drains the back of the hand and forearm and empties into the axillary vein. Classified under: Nouns denoting body parts. Synonyms: basilic vein; vena basilica. Hypernyms (basilic vein is a kind of...):
There, it enters deep into the tissues and joins the brachial vein. As the basilic and brachial veins merge, they form the axillary vein. The basilic vein passes along the back of the forearm on the ulnar side for a distance and then curves to the surface below the elbow. It continues to move up the medial side until it reaches the middle of the upper arm
The cephalic vein is often visible through the skin, and its location in the deltopectoral groove is fairly consistent, making this site a good candidate for venous access. Permanent pacemaker leads are often placed in the cephalic vein in the deltopectoral groove. It communicates with the basilic vein via the median cubital vein at the elbow and is located in the superficial fascia along the anterolateral surface of the biceps brachii muscle.
The basilic vein is on the medial side of the arm in the anatomical position. It is superficial, meaning close to the skin. This makes the basilic vein a possible site f … or veinipuncture. The primary purpose is to help drain the blood from the hand and forearm. 
cephalic vein. n. A vein that arises at the radial border of the dorsal venous rete of the hand, passes upward in front of the elbow and along the lateral side of the arm, and empties into the upper part of the axillary vein. ce·phal·ic vein. subcutaneous vein that arises at the radial border of the dorsal venous network of the hand, passes upward anterior to the elbow and along the lateral side of the arm; it
The basilic vein is a large superficial vein of the upper limb that helps drain parts of the hand and forearm. As it ascends the medial side of the biceps in the arm proper (between the elbow and shoulder), the basilic vein normally perforates the brachial fascia (deep fascia) above the medial epicondyle, or even as high as mid-arm.
In human anatomy, the cephalic vein (also known as the antecubital vein)is a superficial vein of the upper limb. It communicates with the basilic vein via the median cubital vein at the elbow and is located in the superficial fascia along the anterolateral surface of the biceps brachii muscle.
The layout of superficial veins in the forearm is highly variable from person to person, and there is a profuse network of unnamed superficial veins that the basilic vein communicates with. As it ascends the medial side of the biceps in the arm proper (between the elbow and shoulder), the basilic vein normally perforates the brachial fascia (deep fascia) above the medial epicondyle, or even as high as mid-arm.
The vein may be used for intravenous access, and is sometimes referred to as the 'House-man's Friend' because a large bore cannula may be easily placed. However, the cannulation of a vein as close to the radial nerve as the cephalic vein can sometimes lead to nerve damage. It communicates with the basilic vein via the median cubital vein at the elbow and is located in the superficial fascia along the anterolateral surface of the biceps brachii muscle.