Answer   reproductive cells or you can also say the 23rd pair in the chromosome of the reproductive cell under goes the meiosis and the 23rd pair is called sex chromosome … Germ cells are the only cells that can undergo meiosis as well as  mitosis.
Confidence votes 20. reproductive cells or you can also say the 23rd pair in the chromosome of the reproductive cell under goes the meiosis and the 23rd pair is called sex chromosome. Germ cells are the only cells that can undergo meiosis as well as mitosis. Germ cells produce gametes.
In animals that undergo sexual reproduction, gamete (sperm and eggs) or cell production is only possible when each animals chromosome significantly reduced by half the actual number. This process of chromosome reduction to haploid from diploid is usually followed by what is referred to as meiosis.
reproductive cells or you can also say the 23rd pair in the chromosome of the reproductive cell under goes the meiosis and the 23rd pair is called sex chromosome. Germ cells are the only cells that can undergo meiosis as well as mitosis. Germ cells produce gametes.
A. Cells that undergo mitosis increase the number of somatic cells; cells that undergo meiosis increase the number of sex cells. B. Cells that undergo mitosis keep the same number of somatic cells; cells that undergo meiosis decrease the number of sex cells by half.
The cells that undergo meiosis are called germ cells which produces sex cells. Men have sperm, and women have eggs. Sex cells are also known as gametes or haploid cells, since … they have half the number of chromosomes as the rest of the cells in our body. 2 people found this useful.
The cells that undergo meiosis are called germ cells which produces sex cells. Men have sperm, and women have eggs. Sex cells are also known as gametes or haploid cells, since … they have half the number of chromosomes as the rest of the cells in our body. 2 people found this useful.
All somatic cells, or body cells, divide by the process of mitosis. The only cells in the human body that do not undergo mitosis are the gametes, or sex cells (egg and sperm) which undergo a different process called meiosis.