Split and merge into it. Answer by Paul Jones. Confidence votes 68.4K. Rockhound. Many rocks can contain fossil organisms. Generally speaking, sedimentary rocks are the rock type that contains the most fossil organisms. Coquina, a type of limestone, is formed nearly completely by the shells of marine organisms. And coal is a sedimentary rock composed of the remains of ancient swamp plants. 
Calcite: calcite forms and is stable at the Earth's surface. Some calcite is formed from precipitation, but much of the calcite in sedimentary rocks is formed by biological activity. Many marine organisms secrete skeletal material (shells) of calcite. In addition to these three most abundant minerals, some sedimentary rocks also contain the iron oxides hematite and limonite, and small amounts of feldspars and micas.
Limestone, or its metamorphic cousin, marble, is rock made primarily of calcium carbonate. These rock types are often formed from the bodies of marine plants and animals, and their shells and skeletons can be preserved as fossils. Rivers carry calcium ions—the result of chemical weathering of rocks—into the ocean, where they react with carbonate dissolved in the water. The product of that reaction, calcium carbonate, is then deposited onto the ocean floor, where it becomes limestone.
Particles that form a sedimentary rock by accumulating are called sediment. Before being deposited, sediment was formed by weathering and erosion in a source area, and then transported to the place of deposition by water, wind, ice, mass movement or glaciers which are called agents of denudation. Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that are formed by the deposition of material at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water. Sedimentation is the collective name for processes that cause mineral and/or organic particles (detritus) to settle and accumulate or minerals to precipitate from a solu
Most limestone is composed of skeletal fragments of marine organisms such as coral, forams and molluscs. Limestone makes up about 10% of the total volume of all sedimentary rocks. Limestone is a sedimentary rock composed largely of the minerals calcite and aragonite, which are different crystal forms of calcium carbonate (CaCO 3).
Limestone is a sedimentary rock composed primarily of calcium carbonate (CaCO 3) in the form of the mineral calcite. It most commonly forms in clear, warm, shallow marine waters. It is usually an organic sedimentary rock that forms from the accumulation of shell, coral, algal and fecal debris. It can also be a chemical sedimentary rock formed by the precipitation of calcium carbonate from lake or ocean water. Most limestones form in shallow, calm, warm
Like most other sedimentary rocks, most limestone is composed of grains. Most grains in limestone are skeletal fragments of marine organisms such as coral or foraminifera. Other carbonate grains comprising limestones are ooids, peloids, intraclasts, and extraclasts. These organisms secrete shells made of aragonite or calcite, and leave these shells behind after the organisms die. Limestone is a sedimentary rock composed largely of the minerals calcite and aragonite, which are different crystal forms of calcium carbonate (CaCO 3).