A gene is a basic unit of heredity in a living organism that normally resides in long strands of DNA called chromosomes. Genes are coded instructions that decide what the organism is like, how it behaves in its environment and how it survives. 
How Genes are Inherited. The process of meiosis splits chromosome pairs in half so that instead of having 46 chromosomes, the resulting cells only have 23 chromosomes each, and only contain half of the genetic material from the parent cell. Everyone has the same genetic complement, but genes can be expressed differently based on what allele -- genetic variant -- a person possesses. We all have genes for hair color, for example, but the expression of that gene is what determines the actual color of your hair. We all have the same set of genes.
A gene is a sequence of DNA that determines a particular trait. A chromosome is a coiled DNA chromosome that contains the organisms genetic code (aka-genes). A chromosome is a long packaged DNA sequence. The human diploid (DNA From both mother and father) cell has 46 of these. A chromosome contains thousands of genes which are the … sequences in the actual DNA that code for end products such as proteins.
Chromosomes are strans of DNA genes are what chromosomes are made up of. A gene can be dominant or recessive and that is why one of you parents has brown eyes and the other ha … s blue and you have brown because brown eyes is dominant and blue is recessive. Hope this helps. 4 people found this useful. A gene is the specific section of DNA that codes for a functional product (i.e. a protein). Chromosomes are tightly packed forms of DNA and proteins-which contain genes. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
A gene is a sequence of DNA that determines a particular trait. A chromosome is a coiled DNA chromosome that contains the organisms genetic code (aka-genes). A gene is the specific section of DNA that codes for a functional product (i.e. a protein). Chromosomes are tightly packed forms of DNA and proteins-which contain genes. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
The resulting bundle is called a chromosome. A Gene is a particular section of the chromosome's DNA string. There are many such sections on the DNA string-thus it contains (also calls 'codes') many genes-in humans between 500 and 4500 depending on what chromosome. One gene contains information for producing one particular protein. A chromosome is a long packaged DNA sequence. The human diploid (DNA From both mother and father) cell has 46 of these. A chromosome contains thousands of genes which are the … sequences in the actual DNA that code for end products such as proteins.
DNA forms chromosomes which in cells form genetic codes (genes) in the nucleus, DNA is copied in cell division to make new chromosomes and some (very few) mutate and form new genes. All such genes are packed in cells in the form of chromosomes. Such closed parallelism was recognized by Sutton and Boveri between genes and chromo somes. PARALLELISM BETWEEN GENES AND CHROMOSOMES The chromosomes, and therefore the genes, are made up of the chemical substance called DNA.
Chromosomes are molecules that consist of a very long strand of DNA coiled many times, and a few proteins called histones which hold the whole structure together. To put things very simply, chromosomes are made up of genes and genes are made of DNA. All such genes are packed in cells in the form of chromosomes. Such closed parallelism was recognized by Sutton and Boveri between genes and chromo somes. PARALLELISM BETWEEN GENES AND CHROMOSOMES The chromosomes, and therefore the genes, are made up of the chemical substance called DNA.
The cell’s nucleus contains chromosomes chromosomes: Rod shaped bodies found in the nucleus of cells that contain genetic information (DNA). made from long DNA molecules. The diagram shows the relationship between the cell, its nucleus, chromosomes in the nucleus, and genes. Nucleus, chromosome and gene. Page: 1  1. 2  2. 3  3. 4  4. 
Best Answer: DNA is the entire genetic material. A Chromosome is a strand of DNA containging the genes. A gene is a part of a chromosome which carries the information that is passed on to offspring. All such genes are packed in cells in the form of chromosomes. Such closed parallelism was recognized by Sutton and Boveri between genes and chromo somes. PARALLELISM BETWEEN GENES AND CHROMOSOMES The chromosomes, and therefore the genes, are made up of the chemical substance called DNA.