nasal concha. One of the three scroll-like bones that project medially from the lateral wall of the nasal cavity; a turbinate bone. The superior and middle conchae are processes of the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone; the inferior concha is a facial bone. Each overlies a meatus.
Definition of CONCHA. 1. a: the plain semidome of an apse b: apse. 2. : something shaped like a shell; especially: the largest and deepest concavity of the external ear. — con·chal \-kəl\ adjective. ADVERTISEMENT. 
a shell-shaped structure. concha of auricle the hollow of the auricle of the external ear, bounded anteriorly by the tragus and posteriorly by the antihelix. inferior nasal concha a bone forming the lower part of the lateral wall of the nasal cavity. Nasal conchae. supreme nasal concha a thin bony plate occasionally found projecting from the inner wall of the ethmoid labyrinth, above the bony superior nasal concha, and the mucous membrane covering the plate.
The inferior nasal concha (inferior turbinated bone or inferior turbinal/turbinate) is one of the turbinates in the nose. It extends horizontally along the lateral wall of the nasal cavity and consists of a lamina of spongy bone, curled upon itself like a scroll. 
Noun. 1. concha - (anatomy) a structure that resembles a shell in shape. anatomical structure, bodily structure, body structure, complex body part, structure-a particular complex anatomical part of a living thing; he has good bone structure. nasal concha-one of several turbinate bones in the nasal cavity. concha. n, pl-chae (-kiː). 1. (Anatomy) any bodily organ or part resembling a shell in shape, such as the external ear. 2. (Architecture) Also called: conch architect the half dome of an apse. (ˈkɒŋ kə)
concha bullo´sa a cystic distention of the middle nasal concha. inferior nasal concha a thin, bony plate forming the lower part of the lateral wall of the nasal cavity, and the mucous membrane covering the plate. Nasal conchae. Nasal conchae. supreme nasal concha a thin bony plate occasionally found projecting from the inner wall of the ethmoid labyrinth, above the bony superior nasal concha
concha. a shell-shaped structure. concha of auricle the hollow of the auricle of the external ear, bounded anteriorly by the tragus and posteriorly by the antihelix. inferior nasal concha a bone forming the lower part of the lateral wall of the nasal cavity. middle nasal concha the lower of two bony plates projecting from the inner wall of the ethmoidal labyrinth and separating the superior from the middle meatus of the nose. One of the three scroll-like bones that project medially from the lateral wall of the nasal cavity; a turbinate bone. The superior and middle conchae are processes of the lateral mass of the ethmoid bone; the inferior concha is a facial bone. Each overlies a meatus.
Illustration of Upper Respiratory System. In anatomy, a nasal concha (or turbinate) is a long, narrow and curled bone shelf (shaped like an elongated sea-shell) that protrudes into the breathing passage of the nose. Turbinate bone refers to any of the scrolled spongy bones of the nasal passages in vertebrates. In humans, the turbinates divide the nasal airway into four groove-like air passages, and are responsible for forcing inhaled air to flow in a steady, regular pattern around the largest possible surface of cilia and climate-controlling tissue.