Cells need to copy their DNA when they divide. This process is called DNA replication. To understand how DNA is copied, we first need to understand the structure of DNA. DNA is made of two long strands that wrap around each other to make the famous double helix. 
One side of DNA molecule is a template for making the other side (strand) B. Process of DNA Replication Uncoil & unzip DNA molecule Enzyme (-ase) breaks weak Hydrogen Bond between bases B. Process of DNA Replication 2. Enzyme brings in complementary N-bases B. Process of DNA Replication 3. DNA Replication Replication = DNA copies itself exactly (Occurs within the nucleus) Any mistake in copying = mutation DNA mutation = chromosomal mutation A. Basic Facts of DNA Replication 1. Complementary base pairing makes replication possible C-G A-T A. Basic Fact
Check out our amazing biology videos for kids. Learn more about biology while enjoying a range of interesting clips. DNA Wrapping & Replication. Watch how DNA forms, eventually squeezing six feet of the molecule into the microscopic nucleus of every cell in a process known as DNA wrapping. An amazing animation then shows how DNA replication works, a biochemical assembly line that pulls about a DNA double helix before copying each strand
DNA replication is the process of copying a double-stranded DNA strand, prior to cell division (in eukaryotes, during the S phase[?]). The two resulting double strands are identical (if the replication went well), and each of them consists of one original and one newly synthesized strand. This is called semiconservative replication. The process of replication consists of three steps, initiation, replication and termination.
Another enzyme, DNA ligase (yellow), then stitches these together into the lagging strand. DNA replication or DNA synthesis is the process of copying a double-stranded DNA strand, prior to cell division (in eukaryotes, during the S phase of mitosis and meiosis). DNA replication. In the first step, a portion of the double helix (blue) is unwound by a helicase. Next, a molecule of DNA polymerase (green) binds to one strand of the DNA. It moves along the strand, using it as a template for assembling a leading strand (red) of nucleotides and reforming a double helix
DNA replication is the process by which DNA makes a copy of itself during cell division. 1  The first step in DNA replication is to ‘unzip’ the double helix structure of the DNA molecule. 1 The separation of the two single strands of DNA creates a ‘Y’ shape called a replication ‘fork’. 2  The two separated strands will act as templates for making the new strands of DNA. 3  One of the strands is oriented in the 3’ to 5’ direction (towards the replication fork), this is the leading strand.
DNA Replication. ­DNA carries the information for making all of the cell's proteins. These pro­teins implement all of the functions of a living organism and determine the organism'­s characteristics. When the cell reproduces, it has to pass all of this information on to the daughter cells. However, DNA does not unzip entirely. It unzips in a small area called a replication fork, which then moves down the entire length of the molecule. Let's look at the details: 1  An enzyme called DNA gyrase makes a nick in the double helix and each side separates. 2  An enzyme called helicase unwinds the double-stranded DNA.
Replication. After the helicase unwinds the DNA, single-strand binding protein is used to hold the DNA strands in place. RNA primase is then bound to the starting DNA site. At the beginning of replication, an enzyme called DNA polymerase binds to the RNA primase, which indicates the starting point for the replication. DNA replication. In the first step, a portion of the double helix (blue) is unwound by a helicase. Next, a molecule of DNA polymerase (green) binds to one strand of the DNA. It moves along the strand, using it as a template for assembling a leading strand (red) of nucleotides and reforming a double helix
Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is the carrier of genetic information for all living creatures. An organism's genome, made of DNA, encodes the genetic blueprint for building that organism. Through the process of replication, the entire genome is copied and passed on to each new cell made in the body.