Orgone Energy In Recent History. Back in the 1950's, a Physician named Wilhelm Reich coined the phrase 'Orgone' energy and described it as the 'life force energy expressed as sexual energy'. He became interested in this field of study while he was a student of the famous Psychologist, Sigmund Freud.
Reich s Discovery of Orgone Energy Orgone energy was originally discovered by Wilhelm Reich in his psychiatric work. As a psychoanalyst and student of Freud, Reich s point of departure was, quite naturally, Freud s concept of libido. . Libido is life energy, desire, the source of human striving.
Orgone energy is Wilhelm Reich s name for the substratum from which all nature is created. The best definition this author can provide for it is this: Orgone energy is the creative force in nature. This article will discuss briefly the history of the discovery of orgone energy by Reich and will describe its properties.
ORGONE is also known as prana, life force, ki, chi, mana, universal energy...etc. Orgone creations are simply energy storehouses. The energy they store is spiritual energy, energy that nurtures your being, your soul.
The name Orgonite comes from ‘Orgone’ Energy, studied most famously by Wilhelm Reich. He used a modified Geiger counter to measure etheric energy in the air around us. He named it ‘Orgone’ Energy. This same energy is known around the world in different cultures as Chi, Ki, Prana, Ether & Life Force.
Orgone is an energy. It can be made as a good energy or sabotaged and used as an evil, negative energy. Like everything, Satan always perverts and mimicks what God creates, has, or does. I see what this positive orgone energy does to Satan and his Annunaki giants all the time in the Bible Codes.
Your pets and plants will love it. Another Visual effect of the ORGONE creation, is the fact that it dissipates chemtrails within seconds of directing an Orgone creation or what is known as a chembuster, toward the sky, it leaves a 'hole' in the synthetic clouds exposing the blue skies behind the whiteout.