A unipolar neuron has only one attachment or process arising from the main portion of the cell. The most common type of unipolar neuron is a sensory neuron that carries signals into the central nervous system, which is made up of the brain and spinal cord. A unipolar neuron differs from other types of neurons by having only one process that arises from the main portion of the cell, or cell body. The structure of a unipolar neuron is unique, and the cell body of this nerve cell is protected by the backbones or skull bones. The single attachment or process of a unipolar neuron is the only part of the neuron out in the rest of the body, but it has the ability to repair itself.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A unipolar neuron is a type of neuron in which only one protoplasmic process (neurite) extends from the cell body. Most neurons are multipolar, generating several dendrites and an axon and there are also many bipolar neurons. Unipolar brush cells are neurons specific to the cerebellum and the granule region of the dorsal cochlear nucleus. In all species, including vertebrates and invertebrates, many types of primary sensory neurons are pseudounipolar.
unipolar neuron. n. A neuron whose cell body emits a single axonal process resulting from the fusion of two polar processes during development, one branch of the process serving as a sensory nerve fiber and a second branch entering into synaptic contact with neurons in the spinal cord or brainstem.
The process of a unipolar neuron is mostly axon but also has a sensory dendrite on one end. Children with sensory neuron disorders may not perceive heat or pain properly, possibly leading to serious injuries. Unipolar neurons make up most of the nervous system. The structure of a unipolar neuron is unique, and the cell body of this nerve cell is protected by the backbones or skull bones. The single attachment or process of a unipolar neuron is the only part of the neuron out in the rest of the body, but it has the ability to repair itself.
A bipolar cell is a type of neuron which has two extensions. Bipolar cells are specialized sensory neurons for the transmission of special senses. As such, they are part of the sensory pathways for smell, sight, taste, hearing and vestibular functions. 
A unipolar neuron is a type of neuron in which only one protoplasmic process (neurite) extends from the cell body. Unipolar brush cells are neurons specific to the cerebellum and the granule region of the dorsal cochlear nucleus. In all species, including vertebrates and invertebrates, many types of primary sensory neurons are pseudounipolar.
Neurons. The neuron, the structural and functional unit of the nervous system, is the key cell-type of nervous tissue. An individual neuron consists of a perikaryon (cell body) and cell processes, typically one axon and a number of dendrites. The axon is specialized for conducting excitation from the input region to the output region of the neuron. The cell body plus the dendrites of a mulltipolar neuron constitute a dendritic zone which receives synaptic input from other neurons.
unipolar neuron. n. A neuron whose cell body emits a single axonal process resulting from the fusion of two polar processes during development, one branch of the process serving as a sensory nerve fiber and a second branch entering into synaptic contact with neurons in the spinal cord or brainstem.
Answers. Best Answer: In a unipolar neuron, or pseudounipolar neuron, the dendrites and axon are continuous--basically, fused--and the cell body lies off to one side. In such a neuron, the initial segment lies where the dendrites converge. The rest of the process, which carries action potentials, is usually considered to be an axon. Most sensory neurons of the peripheral nervous system are unipolar. Their axons may extend a meter or more, ending at synapses in the central nervous system. Multipolar neurons have two or more dendrites and a single axon. Multipolar neurons are the most common type of neuron in the CNS (Central Nervous System). Look: Unipolar Neuron-http://psyweb.com/Physiological/Neurons/..