A Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree is the educational requirement for becoming a lawyer in the United States and requires approximately three years of graduate study to finish. The American Bar Association (ABA) is the accreditation agency for law school programs, and such accreditation is required in most states.
Lawyers undergo extensive educational training to become licensed to practice law. Although requirements vary by state, education for lawyers includes: 1  a four-year undergraduate degree. 2  three years of law school. 3  passing the bar examination for every state in which you wish to practice. 4  passing an ethics examination (required by most states).
It generally takes about 7-8 years to become a lawyer. 4 years are spent as an undergraduate achieving a bachelor's degree, 3 years are spent in law school, and then there is additional time needed to study for and take the bar exam.
Becoming a lawyer takes a total of seven years, and you must pass the bar exam. Every law school requires a four-year bachelor’s degree from a university or college, and law school takes another three years to complete.
By Sally Kane. Lawyers undergo extensive educational training to become licensed to practice law. Although requirements vary by state, education for lawyers includes: 1  a four-year undergraduate degree. 2  three years of law school. 3  passing the bar examination for every state in which you wish to practice. 4  passing an ethics examination (required by most states).
Law School. Law school students typically study for three years and earn a Juris Doctor (J.D.) degree upon successful completion of their degree program. There is no mandated or standardized curriculum, but most law schools provide a comprehensive overview of the field, with courses from civil procedure to property law.
Educational Requirements for a Lawyer. Aspiring lawyers must complete law school. Applying to law school requires graduating from a bachelor's degree program and, in nearly all cases, taking the Law School Admission Test (LSAT).