Nursing home administrators (NHAs) are responsible for ensuring the standards of care throughout their facilities meet all regulatory requirements set by local, state and federal governments. They are also responsible for meeting the needs of their residents and the residents’ families and doctors. A nursing home administrator is in charge of the day to day running of a nursing home.
1 Bachelors Degree (in any field) holders generally will need to schedule a 9 month/1500 hour internship and must work at least 35 hours a week during general operating hours. 2  Masters Degree holders generally will need to schedule a 6 month/1000 hour internship and must work at least 35 hours a week. 1 Masters Degree holders generally will need to schedule a 6 month/1000 hour internship and must work at least 35 hours a week. 2  Completion of the Core of Knowledge is required. 3  In order to enroll in this program, click here.
To become a nursing home administrator, an individual must finish high school, complete postsecondary studies, get on-the-job experience prior to entering the workforce and obtain a license. Many students may do well to earn bachelor's degrees. Some jobs, however, may require students to earn master's degrees. Step 4: Earn a Master's Degree. While not required for all jobs, master's degrees are becoming the norm for many jobs in nursing home administration. Some master's degree programs allow students to specialize in particular types of facilities, such as hospitals or nursing homes.
Nursing home administrators in all states need to become licensed, but the education requirements for earning licensure vary by state. Some states require that administrators have a minimum of a bachelor's degree in a business or healthcare field and pass an examination. A master's degree is often preferred. Traits that can help you to be successful as a nursing home administrator include empathy and sensitivity to the needs of the disabled and elderly individuals you will serve. You should also be a good communicator and team leader, with strong business skills and the ability to analyze data.
1 Out-of-State Licenses. 2  If an applicant has been granted a Nursing Home Administrator license in another state, the Board may waive the requirement that an applicant sit for the national licensure examination offered in New York State. 1 Course in Nursing Home Administration. 2  A 3-credit-hour (minimum) course in Nursing Home Administration at or above the 300 level, given at an accredited educational institution which covers all of the areas as defined in 10 NYCRR 96.8, completed within the five years preceding licensure. 3  Board-Approved Alternatives. 4  1.
Step 5: Obtain a License. All U.S. states and the District of Columbia require nursing home administrators to be licensed. Requirements for licensure include earning at least a bachelor's degree, completing a state-approved training program, passing a state licensing exam and pursuing continuing education. Step 4: Earn a Master's Degree. While not required for all jobs, master's degrees are becoming the norm for many jobs in nursing home administration. Some master's degree programs allow students to specialize in particular types of facilities, such as hospitals or nursing homes.
Research what it takes to become a nursing home administrator. Learn about the job responsibilities, education requirements, licensure, and employment outlook to find out if this is the right career for you. Traits that can help you to be successful as a nursing home administrator include empathy and sensitivity to the needs of the disabled and elderly individuals you will serve. You should also be a good communicator and team leader, with strong business skills and the ability to analyze data.
1 Re-Licensure – If you were previously licensed as an Ohio Nursing Home Administrator from 1980 to the present and your license has expired more than 12 months ago, click here. 1 Masters Degree holders generally will need to schedule a 6 month/1000 hour internship and must work at least 35 hours a week. 2  Completion of the Core of Knowledge is required. 3  In order to enroll in this program
As a nursing home administrator, you will oversee and direct operations of a nursing home in a way that implements the policies and mission of the facility's board of directors or other policy-making group and that complies with government regulations. Traits that can help you to be successful as a nursing home administrator include empathy and sensitivity to the needs of the disabled and elderly individuals you will serve. You should also be a good communicator and team leader, with strong business skills and the ability to analyze data.
Pass the Nursing Home National Exam to obtain your national certification. You'll need this in addition to your state certification before you can apply for a job in healthcare administration. 6. Apply for a position as a nursing home administrator at a number of nursing homes in Ohio. 1  You can respond to classifieds on job boards, in trade magazines, or in the newspaper. 2  In addition, there are headhunting agencies that cater to the healthcare industry that can help you find a posi