Hodgkin’s disease is a type of lymphoma. Lymphoma is a blood cancer that starts in the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system helps the immune system get rid of waste and fight infections. There are two main types of lymphoma: Hodgkin’s lymphoma and non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. Hodgkin’s disease (HD) is also called Hodgkin disease, Hodgkin lymphoma, or Hodgkin’s lymphoma. The disease was named after its discoverer, Dr. Thomas Hodgkin. The cancer originates in white blood cells called lymphocytes.
Hodgkin's lymphoma — formerly known as Hodgkin's disease — is a cancer of the lymphatic system, which is part of your immune system. In Hodgkin's lymphoma, cells in the lymphatic system grow abnormally and may spread beyond the lymphatic system. As Hodgkin's lymphoma progresses, it compromises your body's ability to fight infection. Hodgkin's lymphoma is one of two common types of cancers of the lymphatic system. The other type, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, is far more common. Advances in diagnosis and treatment of Hodgkin's lymphoma have helped give people with this diagnosis the chance for a full recovery
Hodgkin lymphoma, also known as Hodgkin's disease, is a type of lymphoma, a cancer of the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system is a network of nodes (knots of tissue) connected by vessels that drain fluid and waste products from the body. The lymph nodes act as tiny filters, straining out foreign organisms and cells. 
Lymphoma. Lymphoma is a type of cancer that originates in the lymphatic system. There are two main types of lymphoma. Hodgkin’s lymphoma, or Hodgkin’s disease, causes the cells in the lymphatic system to abnormally reproduce, eventually making the body less able to fight infection. All other types of lymphoma are called non-Hodgkin’s lymphomas. Cancers that spread to lymph nodes from other parts of the body are not lymphomas.
The most common sign of both Hodgkin's disease (HD) and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) is a painless swelling in one or more of the lymph nodes of the neck, collarbone region, armpits, or groin. But it is important to remember that most lymph node swelling—especially in children—is caused by an infection, not by lymphoma. Hodgkin's disease has a characteristic pattern of lymphatic spread that may aid in diagnosis. The disease typically invades the lymph nodes of the neck, collarbone, armpits, and/or chest above the diaphragm (large abdominal muscle that controls breathing) without skipping a nodal group.
Hodgkin's lymphoma, also known as Hodgkin lymphoma or Hodgkin's disease, is a type of lymphoma, in which cancer originates from a specific type of white blood cells called lymphocytes. The cell histology in Hodgkin's lymphoma is not as important as it is in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma: the treatment and prognosis in classic Hodgkin's lymphoma usually depends on the stage of disease rather than the histotype.
Hodgkin disease (Hodgkin lymphoma) is a type of lymphoma, a cancer that starts in white blood cells called lymphocytes. Lymphocytes are part of the immune system. The lymph system and lymphoid tissue. To understand what Hodgkin disease is, it helps to know how the lymph system works. The lymph system (also known as the lymphatic system) is part of the immune system, which helps fight infections and some other diseases. It also helps fluids move in the body.
The most advanced stage (stage IV) is characterized by the spread of cancer to other parts of the body. Additional staging factors. Additional letters, A, B, E and S are often used to further describe Hodgkin lymphoma. The letters A and B indicate the presence or absence of certain symptoms. The letters E and S refer to the spread of the cancer beyond the lymph nodes: 
1 Hodgkin's lymphoma is a type of lymphoma (cancer of the lymphatic system). 2  The most common symptom of Hodgkin's lymphoma is a painless swelling in the lymph nodes in the neck, underarm, or groin. 3  Some of those affected have other symptoms like fever, night sweats, fatigue, itching, or weakness. 