A Wage is, as mentioned, an amount paid per hour. A salary is a fixed amount of pay per week or month (usually paid semi-monthly). A yearly pay is known as an annual amount or annual pay. Minimum wage as of July 15, 2009, is $7.25 per hour. Salary is paid notwithstanding the amount of hours to usually Management employees. A wage is better because you get paid for how many hours you work, while, with a salary, you get a set amount of payment. An example of a job that gets a salary is a teacher. It doesn't matter how much homework they grade over weekends and vacations, they get the same amount of money. What a Salary looks like:
Jobs by Salary Range. Browse jobs by salary rates and pay scales as compiled by the Salary.com salary experts. Compensation ranges and salary levels, are determined for the best job salary comparison. Different job salary info is available for all payscales. Job pay structure for: base pay salary information, job market salary level. 
Salary. Your salary depends on what job you do and whether your position is full-time, part-time, or intermittent. Job bulletins show the salary range for various job descriptions. To see the salary for various job descriptions, and what jobs you might qualify for, check out these links. Like salary, eligibility for benefits depends on your job and whether your position is full-time, part-time, or intermittent. The hiring agency can give you specifics about the benefits you'll receive.
Salary and Benefits Components of Salary and Benefits When evaluating job offers, do not look at salary as your only basis for comparison. Compensation is made up of much more than simply base salary. For example, many employers offer commission or additional incentive pay for a job well done. 
Salary is a fixed amount of money or compensation paid to an employee by an employer in return for work performed. A general rule for comparing periodic salaries to hourly wages is based on a standard 40 hour work week with 50 weeks per year (minus two weeks for vacation). (Example: $40,000/year periodic salary divided by 50 weeks equals $800/week.
A salary is a form of periodic payment from an employer to an employee, which may be specified in an employment contract. A general rule for comparing periodic salaries to hourly wages is based on a standard 40 hour work week with 50 weeks per year (minus two weeks for vacation). (Example: $40,000/year periodic salary divided by 50 weeks equals $800/week.
Salary is typically determined by comparing market pay rates for people performing similar work in similar industries in the same region. Salary is also determined by leveling the pay rates and salary ranges established by an individual employer. Salary is also affected by the number of people available to perform the specific job in the employer's employment locale. A general rule for comparing periodic salaries to hourly wages is based on a standard 40 hour work week with 50 weeks per year (minus two weeks for vacation). (Example: $40,000/year periodic salary divided by 50 weeks equals $800/week.