Introduction to Biochemical Industry Definition of Biochemical Processes AprocessthatuseslivingcellsorA process that uses living cells or biomolecules to carry out a chemical transformation leading to the production and ultimate recovery of valuable products. Biochemical Engineering as a Discipline Work in a team environment with chemists, biochemists, microbiologists, and chemical engineers. • Steps in the development of a new biochemical process and roles professionals play.–1. Identify a desired reaction or product (chemist, biochemist). –2.
Biochemical conversion process. Biochemical conversion process. The use of living organisms or their products to convert organic material to fuels. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page. 
1 Biochemistry is the study of the chemical substances and vital processes occurring in living organisms. 2  Biochemists focus heavily on the role, function, and structure of biomolecules. 3  The study of the chemistry behind biological processes and the synthesis of biologically active molecules are examples of biochemistry. 1 Biochemists focus heavily on the role, function, and structure of biomolecules. 2
biochemistry. science concerned chiefly with the chemistry of biological processes; it attempts to utilize the tools and concepts of chemistry, particularly organic and physical chemistry, for elucidation of the living system. The science has been variously referred to as physiological chemistry and as biological chemistry.
bi·o·chem·is·try. n. 1. The study of the chemical substances and vital processes occurring in living organisms; biological chemistry; physiological chemistry. 2. The chemical composition of a particular living system or biological substance: viral biochemistry. Noun. 1. biochemistry-the organic chemistry of compounds and processes occurring in organisms; the effort to understand biology within the context of chemistry. antagonism - (biochemistry) interference in or inhibition of the physiological action of a chemical substance by another having a similar structure.
Biochemistry is closely related to molecular biology, the study of the molecular mechanisms by which genetic information encoded in DNA is able to result in the processes of life. 1 Biochemists focus heavily on the role, function, and structure of biomolecules. 2  The study of the chemistry behind biological processes and the synthesis of biologically active molecules are examples of biochemistry.
Metabolism and energy production. Many of the chemical steps involved in the biological breakdown of sugars, lipids (fats), and amino acids are known. It is well established that living organisms capture the energy liberated from these reactions by forming a high-energy compound, adenosine triphosphate (ATP). science concerned chiefly with the chemistry of biological processes; it attempts to utilize the tools and concepts of chemistry, particularly organic and physical chemistry, for elucidation of the living system. The science has been variously referred to as physiological chemistry and as biological chemistry.
1 The study of the chemistry behind biological processes and the synthesis of biologically active molecules are examples of biochemistry. 2  Genetics is the study of the effect of genetic differences on organisms. 3  Often this can be inferred by the absence of a normal component (e.g., one gene). 1 Biochemists focus heavily on the role, function, and structure of biomolecules. 2 
Today, the main focus of pure biochemistry is in understanding how biological molecules give rise to the processes that occur within living cells, which in turn relates greatly to the study and understanding of whole organisms. 1 Biochemists focus heavily on the role, function, and structure of biomolecules. 2  The study of the chemistry behind biological processes and the synthesis of biologically active molecules are examples of biochemistry.