Other causes of concrete heaving. Sometimes freezing water isn't the culprit when concrete is pushed up or in by soil pressure. Clay-rich soil absorbs moisture rather than allowing it to drain through. The expansive force of clay-rich soil when it absorbs water can be just as destructive as frost heaving. To remedy this problem, a foundation repair specialist is likely to recommend improving drainage and replacing expansive soil with soil that drains well because of higher sand and gravel content.
Cracking and heaving are common flaws in concrete. Because concrete is a mixture of cement, gravel and sand, it has a finite tensile strength that is prone to fracturing under environmental or structural stress. Concrete was used in natural forms by the Ancient Egyptians and Chinese. The Romans then invented synthetic concrete by mixing volcanic ash with lime mortar, sand and gravel. Modern or Portland cement was invented in the 19th century and is a mixture of chalk and clay which has been baked in a lime kiln.
Photo Credit: Tim Carter. Frost heaving can wreak havoc with houses, barns, sheds, roadways, concrete slabs, basically anything that's connected to the Earth in a place where the ground freezes. Just as the phrase implies, the frost heaves, or lifts, things up. The problem is, the lifting may not be equal around the structure. 
What NOT To Do: Cracks on floor slabs that are caused by foundation heave are unique in appearance. You will see multiple cracks that come together to a point or form an enclosed loop where the heave is greatest. Before doing any repairs to your foundation, it's important to identify the problem as heaving. 
What Causes Slab Heave. Slab heave is caused by clay soils expanding when they absorb moisture. The source of moisture can be rainwater, broken sewer pipes, ground water, poor surface drainage and garden irrigation. The amount of water in the ground is often uneven and so the movement in the house is uneven. Slab Heave Affects Houses. Think about the day or week or month that your house was built. Right up to the minute your concrete slab was poured, the ground moisture conditions in your allotment were pretty much consistent. Now consider what happens when an concrete house slab is poured on your allotment.
Frost heaving can damage many types of concrete and masonry, including sidewalks, patios, slabs, retaining walls foundation walls. To repair heaved concrete and prevent concrete heaving in the future, rely on the expertise of a foundation repair specialist. The expansive force of clay-rich soil when it absorbs water can be just as destructive as frost heaving. To remedy this problem, a foundation repair specialist is likely to recommend improving drainage and replacing expansive soil with soil that drains well because of higher sand and gravel content.
Where restraint in the form of a building load is present, heaving pressures may or may not overcome the restraint, but they can be very high: 19 tons/sq ft has been measured, and a seven-story reinforced concrete frame building on a raft foundation was observed to heave more than 2 in. (the nitty gritty on how frost heave works). In most parts of the north United States the ground freezes during the winter months to a depth of several feet. Such ground freezing can lead to heaving of buildings located above or adjacent to it.
If a concrete or masonry element has been damaged because of frost heaving, it's not enough the repair the damage. An experienced foundation repair contractor will work to determine how the heaving occurred and how different repairs can be made to avoid heaving in the future. The expansive force of clay-rich soil when it absorbs water can be just as destructive as frost heaving. To remedy this problem, a foundation repair specialist is likely to recommend improving drainage and replacing expansive soil with soil that drains well because of higher sand and gravel content.
1 Answer from this member: Heaving is usually the result of frost, tree roots or expansive soils getting wet. Heaving floors will often be accompanied by cracks, thought slabs may heave with or without cracking. When heaving occurs, it can form a trip hazard and may weaken the structure of your home. Walls may be out of plumb as a result of the heaved slabs. 
Frost heaving (or a frost heave) is an upwards swelling of soil during freezing conditions caused by an increasing presence of ice as it grows towards the surface, upwards from the depth in the soil where freezing temperatures have penetrated into the soil (the freezing front or freezing boundary). During frost heave, one or more soil-free ice lenses grow, and their growth displaces the soil above them. These lenses grow by the continual addition of water from a groundwater source that is lower in the soil and below the freezing line in the soil.