There are, however, only two methods for whole-house eradica-tion of drywood termites: fumigation and whole-house heat treatment. Other methods such as electro gun, microwave, and freez-ing with liquid nitrogen are local or spot treat-ments designed to eradicate termites in a specific area. Since 1961, the law requires that, on completion of a fumigation, the fumigator must post a sign with the name of the licensee, the date of the fumigation, and the fumigant used. The sign must be posted either in the attic or in the subarea of a house.
No, fumigation is not always a requiredmethod of treatment for drywood termites andwood-boring beetles. Fumigation is an all-encompassing treatment in which the gasespermeate the entire structure, eradicatingtermites that are inaccessible, in addition tothe visible infestations. 
A. Since 1961, the law requires that, upon completion of a fumigation, a sign indicating the name of the licensee, the date of the fumigation and the type of fumigant used be posted by the fumigator in either the attic or in the subarea of a house. These tags are to remain permanently and should not be detached. Under optimum conditions, the target pest will be dead or obviously dying by the end of the fumigation. Drywood termites can remain alive as long as a week after receiving a lethal dose of a fumigant. Lethal doses vary for different pests, depending on the type of fumigant used.
Fumigation typically takes two-and-a-half to three days—if we start on a Monday, you could be back in the house on Wednesday evening. The fumigant is an odorless, colorless gas, not a mist or spray. 
If you see a few live termites immediately after your home has been fumigated, don't be alarmed. Sometimes it can take three to five days for all of the termites to die. Rest assured whole-structure fumigation with Vikane gas fumigant will eliminate all of the drywood termites in the home. Also, most buyers expect the home that they are purchasing is going to be treated. Whole-structure fumigation with Vikane gas fumigant meets all state and lender requirements for real estate transactions.
How can I tell if my house has been fumigated? Since 1961, the law requires that, when a fumigation is complete, the fumigator must post a sign with the name of the licensee, the date of the fumigation, and the fumigant used. The sign must be posted either in the attic or in the subarea of a house, such as a garage. The sign must remain permanently attached. Fumigation is a method of using a lethal gas to exterminate pests within an enclosed space. There are two fumigation methods used. One is to seal the structure with plastic, tape, or other materials, and the other is to enclose the structure in a tent of vinyl-coated nylon tarpaulins.
To prepare for termite fumigation, you will need to make arrangements for your family and pets to stay away from the house for several days. Fumigation preparation, treatment and aeration can take up to 72 hours. Make sure to pack everything you might need for up to three days. 
Structural fumigation is a treatment technique used to control drywood termite infestations in a home. This treatment method should be used only when the infestation is too extensive, too difficult to locate or too difficult to access with more targeted methods. 
A. No, fumigation is not always a required method of treatment for drywood termites and wood-boring beetles. Fumigation is an allencompassing treatment in which the gases permeate the entire structure, eradicating termites that are inaccessible, in addition to the visible infestations. Under optimum conditions, the target pest will be dead or obviously dying by the end of the fumigation. Drywood termites can remain alive as long as a week after receiving a lethal dose of a fumigant. Lethal doses vary for different pests, depending on the type of fumigant used.
How long does a fumigation take? The time required for fumigation varies. A fumi-gation can take anywhere from six hours to one week depending on the type of infestation, dos-age, temperature, size of the structure and other factors. Since 1961, the law requires that, on completion of a fumigation, the fumigator must post a sign with the name of the licensee, the date of the fumigation, and the fumigant used. The sign must be posted either in the attic or in the subarea of a house.