Our insurance gave us an EOB yesterday the MRI is going to cost us $2700.00 and the contrast dye was $600.00 so in total a 45 minute brain MRI with contrast dye at Aurora St. Lukes in Milwaukee, WI is $3300.00 with Allegiance Medical Insurance. In some cases, an MRI can produce clearer images than an X-ray or CT scan. Most MRIs are typically covered by health insurance when deemed medically necessary. If deductibles are met, typical out-of-pocket cost consists of copays of $20-$100 for the doctor visit and for the procedure.
MRI of the ankle shows a stress fracture (arrow) of the calcaneus (heelbone). 3. CT can be used to assess fractures of the ankle and soft tissue calcifications. 3D volume rendered images can also be obtained. 4. MRI of (A) severe plantar fasciitis and (B) full thickness rupture of the fascia. An X-ray to rule out a fracture followed up by an MRI scan is the mainstay of ankle evaluation in this setting. Ultrasound may be also used to diagnose ligament injuries, however is unable to evaluate joint and cartilage injuries.
1 An open MRI is wider than an enclosed MRI and is often recommended for obese patients, those who struggle with claustrophobia, or patients whose joints are being examined. 2  An open MRI typically costs about the same as a conventional MRI, about $1,000-$5,000, depending on the parts of the body being examined. In some cases, an MRI can produce clearer images than an X-ray or CT scan. Most MRIs are typically covered by health insurance when deemed medically necessary. If deductibles are met, typical out-of-pocket cost consists of copays of $20-$100 for the doctor visit and for the procedure.
1 An open MRI typically costs about the same as a conventional MRI, about $1,000-$5,000, depending on the parts of the body being examined. 2  An upright MRI allows patients to be scanned while standing or sitting, which can be helpful in diagnosing certain conditions. In some cases, an MRI can produce clearer images than an X-ray or CT scan. Most MRIs are typically covered by health insurance when deemed medically necessary. If deductibles are met, typical out-of-pocket cost consists of copays of $20-$100 for the doctor visit and for the procedure.
Depending on the severity and complexity of an injury, the ankle MRI may take anywhere from about fifteen minutes to half an hour to complete. Once the procedure is finished, the technician will help the patient off of the table and allow him or her to redress. A patient will be instructed to dress in a hospital gown prior to an ankle MRI procedure. An MRI machine uses a magnetic field and radio waves to create pictures of internal organs and bone structures. MRI results will be interpreted by a radiologist, although one may not be immediately available.
1 A spinal MRI is used to find various spinal problems, including nerve damage or tumors. 2  It typically costs $1,000-$5,000, depending on the part of the spine being scanned and whether the procedure is performed in a hospital or physician's office. In some cases, an MRI can produce clearer images than an X-ray or CT scan. Most MRIs are typically covered by health insurance when deemed medically necessary. If deductibles are met, typical out-of-pocket cost consists of copays of $20-$100 for the doctor visit and for the procedure.
3. Swollen Tendons – Swollen tendons in the ankle and foot can be very problematic, especially if a disease or infection is causing the swelling. With an MRI, your doctor can determine the extent of the damage and prescribe the best form of treatment, whether it be tendon repair or tendon replacement. MRIs can save parts of your feet or bones if they detect the problem early enough. 5. Evaluate a lump or bump – Sometimes a bump is nothing more than a bruise, but other times they can be signs of a more serious issue. An MRI allows doctors to examine a lump and determine if it is benign or cancerous.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a noninvasive, usually painless medical test that helps physicians diagnose and treat medical conditions. 
If at three months following an ankle sprain, with rehabilitation, your ankle is still painful and/or unstable it would be sensible to obtain an MRI scan of the joint, as a pre-cursor to ankle arthroscopy. The MRI scan will identify in most cases injury to the lateral ankle ligaments. An MRI scan however following an ankle sprain will not give any information as to the stability of the injured ligaments and this is really the key point.