Surimi (Japanese: 擂 り 身, すり身, literally  ground meat ) refers to a paste made from fish or other meat, as well as multiple Asian foods that use surimi as its primary ingredient. The process of making pork surimi is similar to making fish surimi except that leaner cuts of meat are used and rinsing is omitted. Pork surimi is made into pork balls (Chinese: gongwan; gòngwán 貢) 丸, which when, cooked have a texture similar to fish, balls but are much firmer and. denser
Crab sticks-imitation crab meat made from surimi. Sugiyo Kaori-bako. Crab sticks (imitation crab meat, seafood sticks, krab) are a form of kamaboko, a processed seafood made of finely pulverized white fish flesh (surimi), shaped and cured to resemble leg meat of snow crab or Japanese spider crab. Contents.
In the West, surimi products usually are imitation seafood products, such as crab, abalone, shrimp, calamari, and scallop. Several companies do produce surimi sausages, luncheon meats, hams, and burgers. The surimi process also is used to make turkey products. It is used to make turkey burgers, turkey sausage, turkey pastrami, turkey franks, turkey loafs and turkey salami. Surimi is a useful ingredient for producing various kinds of processed food
Print. Surimi seafood is a product made from Alaska pollock, which has been processed into several different forms and flavored with crab, shrimp, scallops, and lobster. It is generally referred to as imitation crab and can be found in sticks as whole crab legs, pieces, chunks, flakes, and shredded. The imitation seafood, such as imitation crab, imitation shrimp and imitation lobster, is made from Alaska pollock fillets that are chopped up finely and blended together with crab, shrimp, or lobster to achieve the appropriate flavor. It also contains other ingredients, such as egg white, starch, and salt.
Not Medical Advice: Yes, imitation crab does contain gluten. It is a seafood product made from surimi, or Asian fish paste. 
An imitation crab is a form of Japanese fish cake made from blending processed surimi with flavorings, colorants, and ingredients. Making imitation crab involves rinsing, skimming, grinding and cooking into an odorless paste. The makers then cut the paste into strips to resemble the leg meat of the crab. 
Fake crab meat is not as nutritious as real fish and seafood. Fake crab meat, also called imitation crab, does not contain any crab meat at all. Its Japanese name, surimi, actually means ground meat. Fake crab meat is made of various types of fish ground together into a paste. 
Imitation crab is formed to look like real crab legs. Imitation crab is made with a type of fish called surimi. Manufacturers add fillers, flavoring and color to surimi to mimic the taste, texture and color of real crab legs. Imitation crab meat is a versatile ingredient that costs far less than the real thing. 