Overview. Burkitt’s lymphoma is a relatively rare and aggressive form of non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. Non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma is a type of cancer of the lymphatic system. The lymphatic system helps your body to fight infections. Burkitt’s lymphoma is most common in children living in sub-Saharan Africa, where it is related to the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and chronic malaria. A diagnosis of Burkitt’s lymphoma begins with a medical history and physical examination. A biopsy of tumors confirms the diagnosis. The bone marrow and central nervous system are often involved. Bone marrow and spinal fluid are usually examined to see how far the cancer has spread.
Burkitt lymphoma: A type of non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) that most often occurs in young people between the ages of 12 and 30, accounting for 40% to 50% of childhood NHL. The disease usually causes a rapidly growing tumor in the abdomen. Up to 90% of these tumors are in the abdomen. 
In this article. Burkitt lymphoma is a form of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in which cancer starts in immune cells called B-cells. Recognized as the fastest growing human tumor, Burkitt lymphoma is associated with impaired immunity and is rapidly fatal if left untreated. 1 Immunodeficiency-associated. 2  This variant of Burkitt lymphoma is most common in people with HIV/AIDS. 3  It accounts for 30% to 40% of non-Hodgkin lymphoma in HIV patients and may be an AIDS-defining disease.
Burkitt lymphoma is an aggressive form of lymphoma that affects the B-lymphocytes. It accounts for approximately 0.3-1.3% of all non-Hodgkin lymphomas. Burkitt lymphoma is relatively rare in Western countries, but is quite common in Central Africa. Burkitt lymphoma, particularly the endemic form that is common in Africa, is associated with the Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) in nearly 100% of cases. In the sporadic forms that occur in Western countries, EBV is present in approximately 30% of cases and in 40% of immunodeficiency-associated cases.
Burkitt lymphoma (Burkitt's tumor, Burkitt's lymphoma, or malignant lymphoma, Burkitt's type) is a cancer of the lymphatic system, particularly B lymphocytes found in the germinal center. It is named after Denis Parsons Burkitt, a surgeon who first described the disease in 1958 while working in equatorial Africa. 1 The sporadic type of Burkitt lymphoma (also known as non-African) is the most common variant found in places where malaria is not holoendemic. 2  The tumor cells have a similar appearance to the cancer cells of classical endemic Burkitt lymphoma. 3  Sporadic lymphomas are rarely associated with the Epstein–Barr virus
Burkitt lymphoma accounts for only 1% of adult lymphoma, but up to 30% of childhood non-Hodgkin lymphomas. The average age of children diagnosed with Burkitt lymphoma is between 5 and 10 years of age, whilst adults are usually diagnosed between the ages of 30 and 50 years. Burkitt lymphoma, particularly the endemic form that is common in Africa, is associated with the Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) in nearly 100% of cases. In the sporadic forms that occur in Western countries, EBV is present in approximately 30% of cases and in 40% of immunodeficiency-associated cases.
Burkitt's lymphoma (also called small noncleaved cell lymphoma) is a type of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, a cancer in the lymphatic system. 1 Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma causes the cells in your child’s lymphatic system to abnormally reproduce, eventually causing tumors to grow. 2  Non-Hodgkin's disease cells can also spread to other organs and tissues in the body. 3  Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma is the third most common childhood cancer.
Burkitt's lymphoma is a high-grade B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma that is rapidly growing and aggressive. There are three main types of Burkitt's lymphoma: 1  Endemic: mainly occurs in equatorial Africa. 2  It is the most common malignancy of children in this area. Common searches for this page include: what is burkitt's lymphoma, what causes burkitt's lymphom, causes of burkitt's lymphoma, treatment for burkitt's lymphoma, burkitt's lymphoma treatment, symptoms of burkitt's lymphoma, burkitt's lymphoma symptoms,