Home RESOURCES Cargo Insurance Guidelines. The decision of whether or not to insure your freight is not always a clear-cut, simple choice. There are many factors to consider, such as the total value of the goods shipped, the shipping origin and destination, the mode of transportation, etcetera.
Freight. Money paid for the transportation of goods. Freight insurance is a common coverage in marine insurance, purchased by the owners of transporting vessels. News On Freight.
Definition. Insurance coverage for goods during shipment. Freight insurance can be purchased directly from a shipper or from a third-party insurer. also called cargo insurance.
Shipping Insurance Coverage. Shipsurance is a shipping insurance company offering coverage for shipments sent via the major shipping carriers worldwide. Shippers of all sizes can save up to 90% on shipping insurance and parcel insurance.
Shipping insurance is a service which may reimburse senders whose parcels are lost, stolen, and/or damaged in transit. In Canada and the US, shipping insurance is sold by postal services, courier companies, and shipping-insurance companies. Not all insurers will insure all goods. For example, postal services will not insure certain economy-class parcels, though other insurers often will.
Our freight insurance coverage is replacement cost coverage for the full declared value of the items and is in excess to the liability of the carrier; meaning our insurance coverage will come first. Don't leave it up to the carrier to decide your coverage.our Freight insurance coverage placed will be Primary not Contingent: Most of our competitors offer Contingent freight insurance which is coverage that is contingent upon the carriers liability and their terms and conditions. It's secondary insurance and it will only cover you if your claim is denied by the carrier.
Your Freight insurance coverage placed will be Primary not Contingent: Most of our competitors offer Contingent freight insurance which is coverage that is contingent upon the carriers liability and their terms and conditions. It's secondary insurance and it will only cover you if your claim is denied by the carrier.
Cost, Insurance and Freight (CIF) is a trade term requiring the seller to arrange for the carriage of goods by sea to a port of destination, and provide the buyer with the documents necessary to obtain the goods from the carrier. Next Up. Carriage and Insurance Paid (CIP) is also similar to CIF in that the seller is responsible for providing insurance coverage for the goods while in transit for 110% of their value. However, CIP applies to all modes of transport, while CIF can only be used for non-containerized sea freight.
Motor Truck Cargo Insurance. Motor Truck Cargo insurance (Cargo) provides insurance on the freight or commodity hauled by a For-hire trucker. It covers your liability for cargo that is lost or damaged due to causes such as fire, collision, or striking of a load. 
For more detailed information about what types of Cargo Insurance is best for your shipping needs contact a UCM sales representative by calling (866) 826-2276 or completing an online rate request form. Please download our Cargo Insurance Basics table for a comparison of different types of Cargo Insurance. Cargo Insurance Cargo Insurance covers loss and/or damage of cargo while it is in transit between the points of origin and final destination. Goods may be transported by sea, air, or land. 