If you decide to do things an easier way, you may choose a pressure washer to clean your concrete patio. It seems it is not the pressure only that cleans the concrete, but also the product you use when pressure washing. If the concrete is stained with grease, you will need to use a degreaser. Apply this to the patio and allow it to sit for the recommended time listed on the package. Once you feel the degreaser has had time to work, use the pressure washer. You should be satisfied with the results if you are using a quality product.
Make sure to rinse the cement patio thoroughly after cleaning to remove the chemicals and the dirt. Use a water hose to spray water over the patio or use a power washer if available. Make sure to drain the water away from other organic life around the home.
1 Using a stiff brush, thoroughly scrub down the entire patio area with your cleaning solution. 2  Leave for five to ten minutes and then vigorously rinse the surface with your hose, or pressure washer. 3  Protect your flowerbeds.
Using the Karcher K3.550 presssure washer with the 'dirt blaster' lance to clean an inner city patio. You can tell by the clean lines of the clean / dirty parts of the slabs that the muck is well set in and would take some shifting without a good pressure washer.
Patio magic Patio Magic Mould Control Liquid - 5L. Patio Magic - 5L kills and controls green mould moss algae on all outdoor hard surfaces. Features: Simply dilute Patio Magic in a watering can or pressure sprayer and apply to surface then leave to work.No scrubbing or pressure washing required. Usage: Suitable for use on all outdoor hard surfaces including paths patios drive ways decking and fences.
Tips. 1  Wear gloves when handling bleach. 2  If your patio is really dirty you can use a pressure washer to clean it. 3  A water hose can be handy when cleaning your patio, you don't have to carry buckets of water and it goes a lot faster.
How to Clean Your Patio. The first step in patio cleaning is preparation: remove any objects from the surface or the patio, then, mix your chosen cleaning product (check the label – generally one cup of bleach, cleaner, or soda crystals) with a bucket of hot water.
Once you’ve done this, you’re ready to start: 1  Hose down the whole area first. 2  Using a stiff brush, thoroughly scrub down the entire patio area with your cleaning solution. 3  Leave for five to ten minutes and then vigorously rinse the surface with your hose, or pressure washer. 4  Protect your flowerbeds.