Split and merge into it. Answer by Patdev. Confidence votes 183. Disbursed Loan Amount When you get a loan, sometimes the entire amount of the loan is not given out (disbursed) immediately. For instance, suppose the loan is a home equity loan. Usually, the person receives portions of this loan as needed. Suppose the total loan available is $50,000. The person takes $10,000 of this amount. The disbursed loan balance is now $10,000. Depending on the contract, the person will receive a bill for an installment payment to reduce this amount plus interest.
BREAKING DOWN 'Disbursement'. When money is disbursed, it is a cash outflow. Cash flow is a measure of the cash inflow, revenue, and cash outflows, or disbursements. Ideally, there will be more money flowing in than flowing out. DEFINITION of 'Disbursement'. The act of paying out or disbursing money. Disbursements can include money paid out to run a business, spending cash, dividend payments, and/or the amounts that a lawyer might have to pay out on a person's behalf in connection with a transaction.
And it has to different amounts. One section says Direct Subsidized Loan and its says net disbursement amount $2000. The other section says... show more okay I received a letter in the mail from Direct Loans for my college. The letter says that the net loan amount will be disbursed to me. 
Confidence votes 31. Usually when you are granted a loan it will have 2-3 disbursements. Think of a disbursement as a payment.. If half of your loan pays out to the school, you will begin paying interest on that amount. Disbursed Loan Amount   When you get a loan, sometimes the entire amount of the loan is not given out (disbursed) immediately.
Financial Aid Related? The financial aid office at my college sent me this e-mail : &quot;This is to inform you that your current student financial aid gross disburse-ment is $234.00.&quot; What exactly does that mean? They&#39;re closed after 5pm and it&#39;s Friday so I don&#39;t feel like waiting until Monday.
Requirements for Receiving Your Aid. Financial aid is disbursed to students no earlier than 10 days prior to the first day of instruction. Before your aid can be disbursed to you, you must complete the requirements below. If you have financial aid funds that exceed the charges on your UC Merced account at the time of disbursement, you will receive a refund, which may be used to pay other educationally related expenses. (Note that if subsequent charges are made to your account, you are responsible for paying them.
You are here. Financial aid is paid (disbursed) to students no sooner than 10 days prior to the beginning of the first day of instruction each term. Read the information on this page carefully to find out how and when different types of financial aid are disbursed and what you must do to receive your funds. If you have financial aid funds that exceed the charges on your UC Merced account at the time of disbursement, you will receive a refund, which may be used to pay other educationally related expenses. (Note that if subsequent charges are made to your account, you are responsible for paying them.
Report Abuse. Disbursement is when the govt gives you your financial aid. My daughter starts 9-1 and her college email says that the disbursement date of her financial aid for the two semesters of 7000 gets disbursed 8-23 into her college account. The financial aid office at my college sent me this e-mail : &quot;This is to inform you that your current student financial aid gross disburse-ment is $234.00.&quot; What exactly does that mean? They&#39;re closed after 5pm and it&#39;s Friday so I don&#39;t feel like waiting until Monday.
Best Answer: Disbursement is the money that they will pay you. It means that the estimated amount of financial aid you are being given is $234.00. The financial aid office at my college sent me this e-mail : &quot;This is to inform you that your current student financial aid gross disburse-ment is $234.00.&quot; What exactly does that mean? They&#39;re closed after 5pm and it&#39;s Friday so I don&#39;t feel like waiting until Monday.
You can arrange for your Loans through the Financial Aid Office. If you have a private loan and your loan is disbursed via paper check, when we receive the check, we will contact you via your Drew email to stop by the Student Accounts Office to endorse the check, and the check will be deposited to your student account. Your loan may be disbursed for slightly less than what you borrowed as the Department of Education can retain up to 3% of a Federal Direct or PLUS Loan disbursement as a lender fee (this is also allowed for Lenders of Private and NJ Class Loans).