The name taurine comes from the latin … Taurus meaning an ox or bull. This name was chosen as taurine was first discovered in ox bile in 1827. But don't panic that you may be drinking ox bile when you purchase an energy drink, the taurine used in energy drinks is a synthetic.
Taurine is named after the Latin taurus (a cognate of the Greek ταῦρος) which means bull or ox, as it was first isolated from ox bile in 1827 by German scientists Friedrich Tiedemann and Leopold Gmelin.
Taurine is a naturally occurring aminoethanesulfonic acid. It can be found in the bile and tissues of many animals, including humans. The name taurine comes from the latin Taurus meaning an ox or bull. This name was chosen as taurine was first discovered in ox bile in 1827.
While taurine is sometimes called an amino acid, and indeed is an acid containing an amino group, it is not an amino acid in the usual biochemical meaning of the term, which refers to compounds containing both an amino and a carboxyl group.
by Lisa Freedman. Where it comes from: Taurine is an amino acid that's found in large amounts in the heart and brain. It's also found in food sources—the best ones being meat and fish, though it's also included in energy drinks and some supplements used to support athletic activity.
It's an organic molecule (not an amino acid) named for the Latin taurus, which means ox or bull, because originally taurine was extracted from bull semen and ox bile. Taurine is found in other animal tissues, as well, including the human intestine, breast milk, meat, and fish.
Taurine is an amino sulfonic acid, but it is often referred to as an amino acid, a chemical that is a required building block of protein. Taurine is found in large amounts in the brain, retina, heart, and blood cells called platelets. The best food sources are meat and fish.
Where does it come from? Taurine is found in meat and fish. It is also found in human tissue, our large intestine, and human breast milk. 3. Taurine was first isolated from ox bile, and thus its name is derived from the Latin ‘taurus,’ meaning ‘ox’ or ‘bull’.