This is a generalized topographic map of Arizona. It shows elevation trends across the state. Detailed topographic maps and aerial photos of Arizona are available in the Geology.com store. See our state high points map to learn about Humphreys Peak at 12,633 feet-the highest point in Arizona. The lowest point is the Colorado River at 70 feet.
We also have a more detailed Map of Arizona Cities. This Arizona shaded relief map shows the major physical features of the state. For other nice views of the state see Arizona Satellite image, Arizona wall map or the Arizona map by google. It shows elevation trends across the state. Detailed topographic maps and aerial photos of Arizona are available in the Geology.com store. See our state high points map to learn about Humphreys Peak at 12,633 feet-the highest point in Arizona. The lowest point is the Colorado River at 70 feet.
Arizona is located in the Southwestern United States as one of the Four Corners states. Arizona is the sixth largest state by area, after New Mexico and before Nevada. Of the state's 113,998 square miles (295,000 km 2), approximately 15% is privately owned. Arizona is well known for its desert Basin and Range region in the southern portions of the state, which is rich in a landscape of xerophyte plants such as the cactus and its climate with exceptionally hot summers and mild winters.
Arizona is a state in the United States located in the southwestern region. Arizona is otherwise known as the Grand Canyon State as this is the home of the Grand Canyon National Park, which is one of the 7 wonders of the natural world. The state is the 6th largest in terms of land area and the 15th most populous. Arizona is famous for its large variety of geographical features. Noted for the desert climate in the southern half of the state, the state has an abundance of mountains and plateaus, deserts, rivers, and lakes. Arizona is also one of the country's Four Corner states.
This map shows the major streams and rivers of Arizona and some of the larger lakes. Arizona is in the Pacific Ocean Watershed and most drainage leaves the state through the Colorado River. Most of these lakes and streams can be clearly seen on the Arizona Satellite Image. It shows elevation trends across the state. Detailed topographic maps and aerial photos of Arizona are available in the Geology.com store. See our state high points map to learn about Humphreys Peak at 12,633 feet-the highest point in Arizona. The lowest point is the Colorado River at 70 feet.
Arizona is located in the Southwest U.S. Mexico is to the south, California and part of Nevada is to the west, Utah is to the north, and New Mexico is to the east. Arizona is 113,909 square miles, making it the 6th largest state in the country. The State of Arizona is shown on the map in red. The City of Phoenix (black dot on the map) is in Maricopa County (white area). It is rather centrally located in the State of Arizona. Note that the map is not drawn to scale; these are simply general shapes and locations for your reference.
Last Updated: June 22, 2015. - Situated in the Southwestern region of the United States, Arizona is the sixth largest and 15th most populous state of the country. It is one of the Four Corner States and has Utah, Nevada, California, New Mexico, and Mexico as its neighbors. Arizona is famous for its large variety of geographical features. Noted for the desert climate in the southern half of the state, the state has an abundance of mountains and plateaus, deserts, rivers, and lakes. Arizona is also one of the country's Four Corner states.
Arizona is a landlocked state situated in the southwestern region of the United States of America. Arizona shares land borders with Utah to the north, the Mexican state of Sonora the south, New Mexico to the east, and Nevada to the west. Arizona shares water borders with California and the Mexican state of Baja California to the west along the Colorado River. Arizona is also one of the Four Corners states, at which Arizona touches Colorado. Arizona has an area of 113,998 square miles (295,253 km 2), making it the sixth largest U.S. state. Of Arizona's total area, 0.32% consists of water, which makes Arizona the state with the second lowest percentage of water area (New Mexico is the lowest at 0.19%).
Arizona is one of the Four Corner States. The other three states are Colorado, New Mexico, and Utah. The state is bounded by New Mexico, Nevada, Utah, and California and touches Colorado. It also shares a 389-mile long international frontier with Mexico. Arizona is the biggest landlocked American state in terms of population