Arachnoiditis is inflammation of the arachnoid, one of the membranes known as meninges that surround and protect the nerves of the central nervous system, including the brain and spinal cord. 
A. A. A. Arachnoiditis is a pain disorder caused by the inflammation of the arachnoid, one of the membranes that surrounds and protects the nerves of the spinal cord. It is characterized by severe stinging, burning pain, and neurological problems. The most common symptom is pain, but arachnoiditis can also cause: 1  Tingling, numbness, or weakness in the legs. 2  Sensations that may feel like insects crawling on the skin or water trickling down the leg. 3  Severe shooting pain that can be similar to an electric shock sensation.
Arachnoiditis is the clumping together and tethering of the descending nerves to the inner lining of the water jacket that contains the fluid that supports brain and the cord in the spinal canal. 
Adhesive Arachnoiditis is a chronic, insidious inflammatory reaction of the arachnoid matter of the spinal meninges and intrathecal neural elements that cause debilitating, intractable pain and a range of other neurological problems. 
Arachnoiditis is a debilitating condition characterized by severe stinging and burning pain and neurologic problems. The predominant symptom of arachnoiditis is chronic and persistent pain in the lower back, lower limbs or, in severe cases, throughout the entire body. Other symptoms may include: 1  Tingling, numbness, or weakness in the legs. 2  Bizarre sensations such as insects crawling on the skin or water trickling down the leg.
Arachnoiditis is a pain disorder caused by the inflammation of the arachnoid, one of the membranes that surround and protect the nerves of the spinal cord. It is characterized by severe stinging, burning pain , and neurological problems. home neurology center neurology a-z list arachnoiditis index arachnoiditis article. Arachnoiditis has no consistent pattern of symptoms, but in many people it affects the nerves connecting to the lower back and legs.
General Discussion. Arachnoiditis is a disease characterized by an acute inflammatory stage that occurs in the dura (exterior) and the arachnoid (interior), two of the three membranes that cover and protect the brain, the spinal cord and the nerve roots.
Arachnoiditis is a rare neurological condition marked by inflammation of the arachnoid. The arachnoid is a lining that surrounds the central nervous system. The central nervous system consists of the brain and spinal cord. In most cases, patients seeking pain management services for arachnoiditis have the condition along the spinal cord. Arachnoiditis is one of many causes of chronic back pain. It can also cause other symptoms such as numbness and tingling. In extreme cases, it can cause loss of bowel or bladder functions.
Arachnoiditis describes a pain disorder caused by the inflammation of the arachnoid, one of the membranes that surround and protect the nerves of the spinal cord. If arachnoiditis begins to interfere with the function of one or more of these nerves, it can cause a number of symptoms, including numbness, tingling, and a characteristic stinging and burning pain in the lower back or legs.
1 Arachnoiditis: A progressive disorder where the arachnoid membrane becomes inflamed and the brain and spinal cord may also become inflamed. 2  Arachnoiditis: Inflammation of the arachnoid membrane and adjacent subarachnoid space. ( 3 On-line Medical Dictionary). 4  Source-Diseases Database. Prognosis of Arachnoiditis: There is no cure for arachnoiditis. For the majority of patients, arachnoiditis is a disabling disease causing intractable pain and neurological deficits. As the disease progresses, some symptoms may increase and become permanent. Few people with this disorder are able to continue working.