Accredited Investors. Under the Securities Act of 1933, a company that offers or sells its securities must register the securities with the SEC or find an exemption from the registration requirements. The Act provides companies with a number of exemptions. For some of the exemptions, such as rules 505 and 506 of Regulation D, a company may sell its securities to what are known as accredited investors.. The term accredited investor is defined in Rule 501 of Regulation D. For more information about the SEC’s registration requirements and common exemptions, read our brochure, Small Business & the SEC
Under the Dodd-Frank financial reform law, the SEC must review the accredited-investor definition every four years. This is the first such required review since Dodd-Frank was enacted in 2010. About 8.5 million investors currently qualify as accredited. 
Definition. The SEC designation for an individual or entity meeting any of the criteria listed below. Certain restricted offerings, limited partnerships, and angel investor networks are open only to accredited investors.
In order for an individual to qualify as an accredited investor, he or she must accomplish at least one of the following: 1) earn an individual income of more than $200,000 per year, or a joint income of $300,000, in each of the last two years and expect to reasonably maintain the same level of income. A term used by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under Regulation D to refer to investors who are financially sophisticated and have a reduced need for the protection provided by certain government filings.
Accredited Investors Under the Securities Act of 1933, a company that offers or sells its securities must register the securities with the SEC or find an exemption from the registration requirements. The Act provides companies with a number of exemptions.
DEFINITION of 'Accredited Investor'. A term used by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) under Regulation D to refer to investors who are financially sophisticated and have a reduced need for the protection provided by certain government filings.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. An accredited or sophisticated investor is an investor with a special status under financial regulation laws. The definition of an accredited investor (if any), and the consequences of being classified as such, vary between countries. There is a second definition of sophisticated investor in s 761GA of the Corporations Act 2001 in Chapter 7 (Financial services and markets). It defines sophisticated investors so that they can be treated as wholesale (rather than retail) clients.
Definition of ACCREDITED INVESTOR. : an investor that qualifies under the Securities Act of 1933 and related Securities and Exchange Commission regulations as one having a minimum specified net worth or being a particular type of company (such as a bank or insurance company). ADVERTISEMENT.
An accredited investor is a person or institution that the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) defines as being qualified to invest in unregistered securities, such as privately held corporations, private equity investments, and hedge funds. Specifically, to be an accredited investor you must have a net worth of at least $1 million or a current annual income of at least $200,000 with the anticipation you'll earn at least that much next year.