Erector Spinae muscle tightness. These muscles run the length of your back, all the way up to your neck. There is a set on each side of the bony spine bumps on your back, they can often feel like two long ropes. 
Erector Spinae Muscles Anatomy. As you can see from the picture, the lower back is made up of the erector spinae muscles (also known as extensor spinae) that run alongside the entire length of the spinal column (from the base of the spine all the way to the neck bones). This muscle group can also be referred to as the lower back, even though it extends above that area. Well-developed spinal muscles make you look as if you have two boa constrictors running up your back. The muscles of the erector spinae attach to the vertebrae, the ribs, and the pelvis.
More commonly referred to as the “lower back,” the Erector Spinae (AKA spinal erectors) play a significant role in the development of a stronger, healthier person. Your Erector Spinae are the layers of muscle that run along both sides of your spine from your lower back all the way to your head. 
Email Address *. 891 erector-spinae-stretch 2014-10-22 Erector Spinae The Erector Spinae muscles run all the way up each side of the spine from the base of the sacrum to a portion of the muscles attaching at the base on each side of the skull. The fibres are divided further into three sets; Iliocostalis, longissimus & spinalis. Erector Spinae Stretch. Erector Spinae. The Erector Spinae muscles run all the way up each side of the spine from the base of the sacrum to a portion of the muscles attaching at the base on each side of the skull. The fibres are divided further into three sets; Iliocostalis, longissimus & spinalis.
The Erector Spinae muscle actually consists of three columns of muscles, the Iliocostalis, Longissimus, and Spinalis, each running parallel on either outer side of the Thoracic Vertebra and extending from the lower back of the skull all the way down to the Pelvis. The Erector Spinae Muscles work together to keep the spine erect as well as assist in bending sidewards motions and assisting the extension of the Neck and face to turn.
You can’t have strong abs without a good back. The group of erector spinae muscles (see figure 1.3) is made up of the iliocostalis (top layer) and the longissimus (second layer). These back muscles run from the base of your skull, all the way down your spine, before finally connecting to the pelvis. You can feel these muscles in your lower back by locating the two vertical ridges that lie on either side of your spine. To find these ridges, stand up and bend slightly forward at the hips.
They lie superficial to the transversospinales muscles and the minor deep back muscles. The erector spinae muscles arise from different points on the pelvic and lower back regions, vertebral column or ribs. They have a parallel-oriented fibers, which run superiorly along the spine, and insert on the vertebrae, ribs or skull. Remember, there are nine erector spinae muscles with attachment points at different locations along the spine. So the different muscles control the different regions of the spine. 1  The muscles that extend the lumbar spine are called lumbar erectors, or lower erectors.
The erector spinae (erigere, to erect; spina, spine.) consists of three long, thin muscle groups running vertically up each side of the vertebral column: the iliocostalis, longissimus and spinalis. These muscles act on different segments of the vertebral column (i.e. lumbar, thoracic, cervical). Remember, there are nine erector spinae muscles with attachment points at different locations along the spine. So the different muscles control the different regions of the spine. 1  The muscles that extend the lumbar spine are called lumbar erectors, or lower erectors.
Functional Anatomy: The Geek Stuff. The erector spinae muscles run the length of the back, from the sacrum all the way up to the base of the skull. When working unilaterally, the erectors laterally flex the spine and/or head. When working in unison, their role is to extend the head and spine. The erector spinae can be broken down into three different groups: • The iliocostalis muscles (the most lateral group). These muscles run from the common origin to their respective ribs. • The spinalis muscles (the most medial group).