Arteries carry oxygen-rich blood away from the heart to all of the body's tissues. They branch several times, becoming smaller and smaller as they carry blood farther from the heart and into organs. Capillaries. These are small, thin blood vessels that connect the arteries and the veins.
The main function of blood vessels is to carry blood through the body. The blood carries oxygen, nutrients, and wastes that need to move around the body. There are three kinds of blood vessels: arteries, veins, and capillaries. The arteries carry blood away from the heart and transport it to the rest of the body.
Most veins carry blood that is low in oxygen back to the heart. After the oxygen and nutrients have been delivered to the body’s tissues by the arteries and capillaries, a second network of venules and veins carries blood and waste products
How blood works in the body. The circulatory system carries blood to all parts of your body. The heart pumps blood through big blood vessels called arteries and veins. In our body there are also millions of small blood vessels called capillaries. Oxygen, food and other substances pass through the thin walls of these capillaries into the tissue.
Arteries. The arteries (red) carry oxygen and nutrients away from your heart, to your body's tissues. The veins (blue) take oxygen-poor blood back to the heart. 1  Arteries begin with the aorta, the large artery leaving the heart. 2  They carry oxygen-rich blood away from the heart to all of the
The arteries (red) carry oxygen and nutrients away from your heart, to your body's tissues. The veins (blue) take oxygen-poor blood back to the heart. 1  Arteries begin with the aorta, the large artery leaving the heart. 2  They carry oxygen-rich blood away from the heart to all of the
2. Veins-Carry blood from the other parts of the body to the heart. They have valves to stop backward flow of blood.   3. Cappilaries are only one cell thick in reality, and they help to diffuse substances from the blood to the cell through the cell membrane (which is selectively permeable).