Renal artery. There are two blood vessels leading off from the abdominal aorta that go to the kidneys. The renal artery is one of these two blood vessels. The renal artery enters through the hilum, which is located where the kidney curves inward in a concave shape
Under normal circumstances, once the renal artery enters through the hilum, it splits into two main branches, which each then split into numerous smaller arteries, which deliver blood to different areas of the kidneys, known as nephrons. There are two blood vessels leading off from the abdominal aorta that go to the kidneys. The renal artery is one of these two blood vessels.
The urinary system consists of the kidneys, two ureters, the urinary bladder, and the urethra. Blood flows through the kidneys as they filter out waste such as urea. The urine produced by the kidneys goes through the ureters. Overview. The urinary system consists of the kidneys, two ureters, the urinary bladder, and the urethra. Blood flows through the kidneys as they filter out waste such as urea. The urine produced by the kidneys goes through the ureters. It then waits in the urinary bladder, until it goes out through
Before reaching the hilus of the kidney, each artery divides into four or five branches; the greater number of these (anterior branches) lie between the renal vein and ureter, the vein being in front, the ureter behind, but one or more branches (posterior branches) are usually situated behind the ureter. 
The medial border is indented at the hilus, where blood vessels enter and leave, and there the ureter emerges. Each kidney is composed of a paler cortex and a darker medulla (fig. 29-1). The kidneys lie obliquely along the vertebral column, abutting the psoas major muscles. The ureter and renal vessels near the hilus form the pedicle, important variations of which are common. The renal vein (figs. 29-2 and 29-4) is anterior, the ureter is posterior, and the arteries more or less between.
Renal hilus: The renal hilus is an indentation near to the centre of the concave area of the kidney. This is the area of the kidney through which the ureter leaves the kidney and the other structures including blood vessels (illustrated), lymphatic vessels, and nerves enter/leave the kidney. Renal capsule:
On the medial margin of the kidney is concave region called the renal hilus. The renal hilum is the entrance to the renal sinus. Structures such as the renal veins, artery, nerves and lymphatic vessels are located in the renal hilum. The renal sinus is a fat-filled cavity inside the kidney that extends from the hilum. At the hilum the ureters also exit the kidney. The kidney is covered by a fibrous renal capsule
The right kidney is slightly inferior due to crowding by the liver. They are each about 12 cm by 6 cm by 3 cm. The convex side is located laterally. The medial indentation, known as the hilus is where the ureters, renal blood vessels, and nerves enter or exit the kidney. The adrenal glands are located immediately superior to the kidneys. They are part of the endocrine system. Overview. The urinary system consists of the kidneys, two ureters, the urinary bladder, and the urethra. Blood flows through the kidneys as they filter out waste such as urea. The urine produced by the kidneys goes through the ureters. It then waits in the urinary bladder, until it goes out through
Kidney Anatomy. The kidneys are bean-shaped organs that lie retroperitoneal in the superior lumbar region. The medial surface is concave and has a renal hilus that leads into a renal sinus, where the blood vessels, nerves, and lymphatics lie.
Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Fr236ff19ng2g4. Confidence votes 332. on the concave side of the kidney, which faces the vertebral column, lies a depressin called Hilus. it provides a placefr the renal vessels, nerves and the ureter to enter or leave the kidney. 