(Answer #1). As more people in the United States went to work in factories, the social structures that had bound Americans together became weaker. America had been a more communal society with informal social structures. With the coming of factories, it became a more rationalized society with more formal structures. Before the factories, people worked out of their own homes. They typically produced most of the things they needed and traded for the few things they did not produce. They lived in places where everyone knew everyone else. With the rise of factories, all of this changed. Work and home became separate places and ideas. People no longer lived in small communities with a relatively few people who knew them. Informal social pressures could not keep order among large groups of people who did not know one another well.
The factory system originated with the advent of the industrial revolution in England in the mid-19th century. England had successfully transformed itself from a feudal societ … y into a commercialized one. By 1700, the ruling orders in England had adapted to the demand of the market economy. 
The factory first adopted in England at the beginning of the Industrial Revolution in the late 18th century and later spread abroad. It replaced the putting-out system. The main characteristic of the factory system is the use of machinery, originally powered by water or steam and later by electricity. Other characteristics of the system mostly derive from the use of machinery or economies of scale, the centralization of factories, and standardization of interchangeable parts. In other industries the transition to factory production was not so divisive. Until the late 19th century it was common to work 12 hours a day, six days a week in most factories; however long hours were also common outside factories.
The factory system was a new way of organizing labor made necessary by the development of machines which were too large to house in a worker's cottage. Furthermore, the efficient use of the new machines required that many of them be installed together where they could all be driven by the. same power source. Working hours were as long as they had been for the farmer, that is, from dawn to dusk, six days per week. Hours were regulated with precision by the factory clock to ensure that a full measure of work was performed.
The factory system is a method of manufacturing using machinery and division of labor. Because of the high capital cost of machinery and factory buildings, factories are typically owned by capitalists who employ the operative labor. In other industries the transition to factory production was not so divisive. Until the late 19th century it was common to work 12 hours a day, six days a week in most factories; however long hours were also common outside factories.
As the population grew so did wants and needs. Manufacturers realized that bulk production was cheaper, more efficient and provided the quantity of items needed. As a result more and more factories sprang up. Factory work is very different from other types of labor. The introduction of the factory system had a negative effect on living conditions. Factory owners who believed in Social Darwinism and Rugged Individualism did not care much about those who worked in their factories. They believed that if the workers wanted to improve their; lives they had to do it on their own. 
The factory system originated with the advent of the industrial revolution in England in the mid-19th century. England had successfully transformed itself from a feudal societ … y into a commercialized one. By 1700, the ruling orders in England had adapted to the demand of the market economy. New inventions emerged such as the steam engine and the jenny spinning and weaving tool. The rise of the factory system was the new method of organization of production.