Roast. Roasting, very similar to baking, is a method of cooking pork in the oven in a shallow, uncovered pan, and without adding liquid to the pan. Any cut of pork can be roasted, and should be roasted at 350° F unless otherwise noted. This chart will help you decide how long you need to roast the cut of pork you have. 
Always position the pork roast in the pan so that fat side is on the top. Measure one tablespoon of olive oil in a small dish. Add 1 Tablespoon of dried spices to the oil. You can use rosemary, sage, thyme, or oregano; or a combination of these that equal 1 tablespoon. Another tip would be to oil a pan and brown the pork on all its sides before placing it in the oven to cook at a lower but steady temperature at 250 Degrees. You can also surround the pork with bacon and roast following the recipe.
Place the pork on a high shelf in the oven and roast it for 25 minutes. Turn the heat down to 190C/375F/Gas 5, and calculate the total cooking time allowing 35 minutes to the pound, then deduct the initial 25 minutes cooking time. In this case it would be a further 2½ hours. 
1 Place the ham in an oven preheated to 325°F for 20 to 25 minutes per pound or until internal temperature reaches 155°F on a meat thermometer. 2  Be sure the cooking bag is not touching the sides or top of the oven, otherwise the bag might melt. 3  Remove the ham from the oven and discard the bag and drippings. Uncovered: 1  After trimming the skin and some of the fat, place the ham on a rack in a shallow baking pan with fat side up. 2  Half hams should be placed with cut side down. 3  Add 1/4 inch of water to the bottom of the roasting pan.
1 Bake, uncovered, 11/2 hours, basting with sauce or glaze, as desired. 2  Insert meat thermometer into thickest part of ham, not touching bone. 3  Bake 1 to 2 hours more until meat thermometer registers 140 ° F, basting with sauce two more times. 4  Total cooking time for ham should be 18 to 24 minutes per pound. How to Roast Bone-In Ham. The following tips for roasting a bone-in ham are based on a 10-pound fully-cooked smoked ham. 1  Slice away skin from ham with sharp utility knife. ( 2 Omit step if meat retailer has already removed skin.).
1 Place the ham on a rack in a roaster with fat side up or half hams should be placed with cut side down. 2  Add 2 inches of water to the roaster. 3  A mixture of water, brown sugar, and vinegar can be used in place of plain water or a can of carbonated beverage, such as cola could be added to the water. 4  Do not cover the ham. Uncovered: 1  After trimming the skin and some of the fat, place the ham on a rack in a shallow baking pan with fat side up. 2  Half hams should be placed with cut side down. 3  Add 1/4 inch of water to the bottom of the roasting pan.
1 Place the ham in a shallow roasting pan. 2  In a small bowl, mix together the mustard, maple syrup, brown sugar and onion powder. 3  Coat the ham entirely with the glaze using a spoon or brush. 4  Roast the ham uncovered for 2 hours in the preheated oven, or until heated through. Cook. Ready In. 1  Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F (165 degrees C). 2  Rinse the ham and pat dry with paper towels. 3  Place the ham in a shallow roasting pan. 4  In a small bowl, mix together the mustard, maple syrup, brown sugar and onion powder. 5
1 Place the ham, cut side down, on a large piece of foil with the shiny side up. 2  Draw up sides of foil and the add 1/2 cup of water. 3  Fold foil tightly around the ham and then place in the oven to bake. 4  Heat as directed or see the Time and Temperature Chart below. Uncovered: 1  After trimming the skin and some of the fat, place the ham on a rack in a shallow baking pan with fat side up. 2  Half hams should be placed with cut side down. 3  Add 1/4 inch of water to the bottom of the roasting pan.
1 Place ham, fat side up, on rack in shallow roasting pan. 2  Bake, uncovered, 11/2 hours, basting with sauce or glaze, as desired. 3  Insert meat thermometer into thickest part of ham, not touching bone. 4  Bake 1 to 2 hours more until meat thermometer registers 140 ° F, basting with sauce two more times. How to Roast Bone-In Ham. The following tips for roasting a bone-in ham are based on a 10-pound fully-cooked smoked ham. 1  Slice away skin from ham with sharp utility knife. ( 2 Omit step if meat retailer has already removed skin.).
1 The flour will help prevent the bag from bursting while cooking. 2  Place the ham, skin side up, in the oven bag. 3  Place the bag and ham in a large roaster that is at least 2 inches deep. 4  Add 3 to 4 cups of water or other liquid to the bag. Uncovered: 1  After trimming the skin and some of the fat, place the ham on a rack in a shallow baking pan with fat side up. 2  Half hams should be placed with cut side down. 3  Add 1/4 inch of water to the bottom of the roasting pan.