Other fruits that contain high levels of vitamin C are kiwis, strawberries, raspberries, pineapple, watermelon, guava and papaya. Vegetables that are rich in vitamin C include dark green leafy vegetables, broccoli, cabbage, cauliflower, tomatoes, celery, bell peppers and brussels sprouts. A diet rich in these vitamins is a proactive way to stay feeling good and looking good. Both vitamin C and E are present in an abundance of nutritious and delicious vegetables and fruits for you to choose from.
Oils and margarines from corn, cottonseed, soybean, safflower, and wheat germ are all good sources of vitamin E. Nuts are also good sources of vitamin E. Fruits, vegetables, and whole grains contain less. Refining grains reduces their vitamin E content, as does commercial processing and storage of food. While we all know that vitamin C can be found in citrus fruits, not many of us know where to find vitamin E. On this page, we will show you which foods contain the most of this important vitamin.
Vitamin C Rich Foods. Citrus foods are known for being a great source of vitamin C. In addition to citrus foods, there are a host of other fruits and vegetables that are rich in vitamin C. Most recognized as high vitamin C food sources are oranges, tangerines, grapefruits, lemons and limes. A diet rich in these vitamins is a proactive way to stay feeling good and looking good. Both vitamin C and E are present in an abundance of nutritious and delicious vegetables and fruits for you to choose from.
Vitamin E Foods. Many nuts and oils are high in vitamin E. Good sources are almonds, hazelnuts, peanuts, sunflower seeds, sunflower oil, safflower oil, corn oil, olive oil and peanut butter. Wheat germ oil is very high in vitamin E. One tablespoon has 100 percent of your daily requirement. Fruits and vegetables with vitamin E include spinach, broccoli, kiwi, mango and tomatoes, but they aren’t as high in vitamin C as nuts and oils. Cooking with a vitamin E-containing oil or using one to dress a salad is an easy way to get vitamin E.
Not only are they one of the best vitamin E foods, but mustard greens are also high in vitamin K, vitamin A, folate, and vitamin c. Eating just one cup of boiled mustard greens contains about 14% of your daily dietary requirements. We would recommend eating organic mustard greens, if possible. Swiss chard is easily one of the healthiest vegetables you can eat on a daily basis. Commonly known to be high in vitamin K, vitamin A and vitamin C, Swiss chard is another food high in vitamin E. Just one cup of boiled swiss chard greens will provide you with almost 17% of your daily recommended values.
2. Select raw seeds, such as sunflower, pumpkin and sesame, are another common food with vitamin E. In fact, eating just ¼ of a cup of sunflower seeds gives you 90.5% of your recommended daily value, making them one of the best vitamin E foods you can eat daily. Swiss chard is easily one of the healthiest vegetables you can eat on a daily basis. Commonly known to be high in vitamin K, vitamin A and vitamin C, Swiss chard is another food high in vitamin E. Just one cup of boiled swiss chard greens will provide you with almost 17% of your daily recommended values.
Vitamin C and E are both powerful antioxidants that are healthy and beneficial to the functioning of your body. A diet rich in these vitamins is a proactive way to stay feeling good and looking good. Both vitamin C and E are present in an abundance of nutritious and delicious vegetables and fruits for you to choose from.
Raw Seeds. Select raw seeds, such as sunflower, pumpkin and sesame, are another common food with vitamin E. In fact, eating just ¼ of a cup of sunflower seeds gives you 90.5% of your recommended daily value, making them one of the best vitamin E foods you can eat daily. Swiss chard is easily one of the healthiest vegetables you can eat on a daily basis. Commonly known to be high in vitamin K, vitamin A and vitamin C, Swiss chard is another food high in vitamin E. Just one cup of boiled swiss chard greens will provide you with almost 17% of your daily recommended values.
Food. Numerous foods provide vitamin E. Nuts, seeds, and vegetable oils are among the best sources of alpha-tocopherol, and significant amounts are available in green leafy vegetables and fortified cereals (see Table 2 for a more detailed list) [ 7 ]. Supplements of vitamin E typically provide only alpha-tocopherol, although mixed products containing other tocopherols and even tocotrienols are available. Naturally occurring alpha-tocopherol exists in one stereoisomeric form.