Obesity is a complex health issue to address. Obesity results from a combination of causes and contributing factors, including individual factors such as behavior and genetics. Behaviors can include dietary patterns, physical activity, inactivity, medication use, and other exposures. 
1 A person is more likely to develop obesity if one or both parents are obese. 2  Genetics also affect hormones involved in fat regulation. 3  For example, one genetic cause of obesity is leptin deficiency. 4  Leptin is a hormone produced in fat cells and also in the placenta. Ultimately, body weight is the result of genetics, metabolism, environment, behavior, and culture. 1  Genetics. 2  A person is more likely to develop obesity if one or both parents are obese. 3
Childhood obesity is a complex health issue. It occurs when a child is well above the normal or healthy weight for his or her age and height. The main causes of excess weight in youth are similar to those in adults, including individual causes such as behavior and genetics. 
Therefore the most common causes of obesity are overeating and physical inactivity. Ultimately, body weight is the result of genetics, metabolism, environment, behavior, and culture. 1  Genetics. 2  A person is more likely to develop obesity if one or both parents are obese. 3  Genetics also affect hormones involved in fat regulation. 4  For example, one genetic cause of obesity is leptin deficienc
Causes of obesity. Obesity is generally caused by eating too much and moving too little. If you consume high amounts of energy from your diet, particularly from fat and sugars, but do not burn off the energy through exercise and physical activity, much of the surplus energy is then stored by the body as fat. 
Lack of Energy Balance. A lack of energy balance most often causes overweight and obesity. Energy balance means that your energy IN equals your energy OUT. Energy IN is the amount of energy or calories you get from food and drinks. Energy OUT is the amount of energy your body uses for things like breathing, digesting, and being physically active. To maintain a healthy weight, your energy IN and OUT don't have to balance exactly every day.
Risk factors. Obesity usually results from a combination of causes and contributing factors, including: 1  Genetics. 2  Your genes may affect the amount of body fat you store, and where that fat is distributed. 1 Genetics. 2  Your genes may affect the amount of body fat you store, and where that fat is distributed. 3  Genetics may also play a role in how efficiently your body converts food into energy and how your body burns calories during exercise. 4  Family lifestyle. 5  Obesity tends to run in families.
Your body stores these excess calories as fat. Obesity can sometimes be traced to a medical cause, such as Prader-Willi syndrome, Cushing's syndrome, and other diseases and conditions. However, these disorders are rare and, in general, the principal causes of obesity are: 1  Inactivity. 2  If you're not very active, you don't burn as many calories. 3  With a sedentary lifestyle, you can easily take in more calories every day than you use through exercise and normal daily activities
If the food you eat provides more calories than your body needs, the excess is converted to fat. Initially, fat cells increase in size. When they can no longer expand, they increase in number. If you lose weight, the size of the fat cells decreases, but the number of cells does not. 1  Obesity, however, has many causes. 2  The reasons for the imbalance between calorie intake and consumption vary by individual. 3  Your age, gender, genes, psychological makeup, and environmental factors all may contribute