Best Answer: A baby starts to walk when she/he is around 10 to 12 months old. Baby starts to talk in her/his 12 to 15 months. How wonderful to observe baby growing up. It's a tough job but very rewarding !! He started walking by 14 months of age. I was told that it was average for a child to start walken around 12
Generally, you can exect a baby to at least try walking between 9 and 12 months (some earlier some later), and they usually start babbling long before that. The general rule of thumb is that each child has his/her own developmental path. He started walking by 14 months of age. I was told that it was average for a child to start walken around 12
1 Baby talk at 9 months. 2  After 9 months, babies can understand a few basic words like no and bye-bye.. 3  They also may begin to use a wider range of consonant sounds and tones of voice. 1 Baby talk at 12 months. 2  Most babies say a few simple words like mama and dadda by the end of 12 months -- and now know what they're saying.
The average age would be somewhere around 12 months. But average for babies across the world has nothing to do with it. What matters is what is average for your baby. … You have babies that are pulling up as early as 5 months and walking as early as 7 months, or even earlier. My first child started talking after she turned a year old and my second baby stared talking at 9 months. Many of my friends notice boys take … a little longer to talk than girls.   ----   Well, it's a fact that every child grows up in it's own individual way.
1 After 9 months, babies can understand a few basic words like no and bye-bye.. 2  They also may begin to use a wider range of consonant sounds and tones of voice. 3  Baby talk at 12 months. 4  Most babies say a few simple words like mama and dadda by the end of 12 months -- and now know what they're saying. 1 Baby talk at 12 months. 2  Most babies say a few simple words like mama and dadda by the end of 12 months -- and now know what they're saying.
1 But babbling at this age is usually still made up of random syllables without real meaning or comprehension. 2  Baby talk at 9 months. 3  After 9 months, babies can understand a few basic words like no and bye-bye.. 4  They also may begin to use a wider range of consonant sounds and tones of voice. 1 Baby talk at 12 months. 2  Most babies say a few simple words like mama and dadda by the end of 12 months -- and now know what they're saying.
1 Baby talk at 18 months. 2  Babies at this age say up to 10 simple words and can point to people, objects, and body parts you name for them. 3  They repeat words or sounds they hear you say, like the last word in a sentence. 1 Baby talk at 12 months. 2  Most babies say a few simple words like mama and dadda by the end of 12 months -- and now know what they're saying.
Confidence votes 19.3K. The average age would be somewhere around 12 months. But average for babies across the world has nothing to do with it. What matters is what is average for your baby. You have babies that are pulling up as early as 5 months and walking as early as 7 months, or even earlier. 
This time is exciting for parents because at this age children are expected to say their first words soon. Baby's first words Babies will most likely say their first words sometime between the ages of 11 to 14 months. By the time they are around 18 months, you can expect them to start saying up to twenty words. By the age of four your child will be chattering away and telling you all sorts of things. First words of a baby are special and are unforgettable memories for parents. Read about when do babies generally start talking and by what age do babies start talking in sentences. Parents of new born babies are always excited about so many things. They are curious about so many issues related to their baby.