The muscular system is composed of specialized cells called muscle fibers. Nearly all movement in the body is the result of muscle contraction. We use muscles every day and are important to everyday life. We use our muscles to lift, pull, or use force. Muscles are responsible for all the movements you make. The muscular system helps the movement of some organs like the stomach and intestines. The muscular system consists of skeletal muscle, smooth muscle, and cardiac muscle. There are three different kinds of muscles in our body: cardiac, smooth, skeletal. A cardiac muscle is a of striated muscle found in the walls of the heart
Introduction to Muscular System: Muscular System. Muscular system is the system of Human Body that provides motor power for all movements of body parts. Muscular system is composed of special tissue called muscular tissue. Muscles have the ability to contract actvely to provide the force for movements of body parts. Muscular system has the following important functions in human body; 1  MOVEMENTS OF BODY PARTS: Skeletal muscles are responsible for all voluntary movements of human body parts. 2  They provide the force by contracting actively at the expense of energy.
The muscular system parts refer to the types, locations and the number of muscular organs in the human body, as you can see in the muscular system diagram. According to the most recent research findings related to the human anatomy, there are more than 700 types... 
Three types of muscles. The muscular system can be broken down into three types of muscles: skeletal, smooth and cardiac, according to the NIH. Skeletal muscles are the only voluntary muscle tissue in the human body and control every action that a person consciously performs. Visceral, or smooth, muscle is found inside organs such as the stomach and intestines, as well as in blood vessels. It is called a smooth muscle because, unlike skeletal muscle, it does not have the banded appearance of skeletal or cardiac muscle.
Muscle tissue, one of the four major tissue types, plays the vital role of providing movement and heat generation to the organs of the body. Within muscle tissue are three distinct groups of tissues: skeletal muscle, cardiac muscle, and smooth muscle. Visceral muscle cells are found in the organs, blood vessels, and bronchioles of the body to move substances throughout the body. Visceral muscles are also commonly known as smooth muscle due to their lack of striations.
The muscular system is responsible for the movement of the human body. Attached to the bones of the skeletal system are about 700 named muscles that make up roughly half of a person’s body weight. Each of these muscles is a discrete organ constructed of skeletal muscle tissue, blood vessels, tendons, and nerves. Muscle tissue is also found inside of the heart, digestive organs, and blood vessels. In these organs, muscles serve to move substances throughout the body.... Muscular System Physiology. Function of Muscle Tissue. The main function of the muscular system is movement. Muscles are the only tissue in the body that has the ability to contract and therefore move the other parts of the body.
The muscular system is an organ system consisting of skeletal, smooth and cardiac muscles. The muscular system in vertebrates is controlled through the nervous system, although some muscles (such as the cardiac muscle) can be completely autonomous.