Mount Everest is called the world's highest mountain because it has the highest elevation above sea level . We could also say that it has the highest altitude. The peak of Mount Everest is 8,850 meters (29,035 feet) above sea level. No other mountain on Earth has a higher altitude. Highest Altitude: An altitude of 8,850 meters (29,035 feet) above sea level makes Mount Everest the mountain on Earth with the highest altitude. Highest altitude means that it has the highest elevation above mean
Split and merge into it. Answer by Mezappy8. Confidence votes 281. The Himalayan mountain range in Asia has the 10 highest peaks in the world. Seven are in Nepal, 2 are in Pakistan, and one, Mt. Everest, is on the border of Nepal and China and is the highest peak in the world. It is located in Asia. The tallest mountain in the world (above sea level) is Mount Everest, which is located in the Himal … ayas.
Thirty of the world’s highest mountains are in the Himalaya. The summit of Mount Everest, at 29,035 feet (8,850 meters), is the highest point on Earth. The tallest mountain measured from top to bottom is Mauna Kea, an inactive volcano on the island of Hawaii in the Pacific Ocean. 
The bases of mountain islands are below sea level, and given this consideration Mauna Kea (4,207 m (13,802 ft) above sea level) is the world 's tallest mountain and volcano, rising about 10,203 m (33,474 ft) from the Pacific Ocean floor. 
Below are the ten highest of these fourteen mountains. Mount Everest. Standing at about 29,029 feet (8,848 meters), Everest boasts the top spot for the tallest mountain in the world. It is located on the border between Sagarmatha Zone, Nepal, and Tibet, China and is part of the Himalayan Mountain Range. Cho Oyu is the sixth highest mountain in the world and stands at about 26,906 feet (8,201meters) high. Like most of the other Himalayan Mountains, it lies between Nepal and China (Tibet). Its name in Tibetan means “Turquoise Goddess”.
Highest Mountain Peaks of the World. The following table lists the highest mountain peaks of the world including mountain name, mountain range, vertical height, and location, according to the National Geographic Society. See Named Summits in the U.S. Over 14,000 Feet Above Sea Level for U.S. Peaks. 
The summit of Mount Everest is higher above sea level than the summit of any other mountain, but Mauna Kea is the tallest when measured from base to summit. Mount Everest. When measuring mountain summits by their height above sea level, Mount Everest is the highest mountain in the world. Standing at 29,035 feet (8,850 meters) it reigns over the eight-thousanders club, a list that consists of the 14 mountains on Earth that are at least 8,000 meters tall. 
Mt. Everest is the highest mountain in the world, at 29,029 feet. K2 is the second tallest mountain, and it is also in the Himalayas. A number of other very high mountains are also there. Therefore, the highest mountain range in the world is the Himalayas. Considering the fact that Mauna Kea is the world's tallest mountain, one would have to conclude that the Hawaiian--Emperor seamount chain is the world's tallest mountain range. Mt. Everest is the highest mountain in the world, at 29,029 feet. K2, the second highest mountain
Mount Everest: Highest Mountain in Asia. Mount Everest as seen from Everest Base Camp, Tibet. Mount Everest is the highest mountain on the Asian continent and the highest mountain in the world. Its summit is 29,035 feet (8,850 meters) above sea level. It is located on the border of Nepal and China. Image of Mount Everest copyright by iStockPhoto and Holger Mette. 
The world's highest mountain range is the Himalayas. It is located in Asia. The tallest mountain in the world (above sea level) is Mount Everest, which is located in the Himal … ayas. 6 people found this useful