Since they set the standard for quality in the market, the best hearing aids come from these six manufacturers. Some of these companies have alternate brands. For example, Audibel is a division of Starkey, Unitron is a division of Phonak and Rexton is a division of Siemens. Since the time this post was original written, there have been numerous changes in hearing instrument technology. Finding the best hearing aid brand means keeping up with those changes and finding out which brands have really upped their game.
Best Answer: There are many hearing aids on the market, but I believe the Cochlear hearing aid implant is the best. Hearing aids amplify sound. Cochlear implants compensate for damaged or non-working parts of the inner ear. When hearing is functioning normally, complicated parts of the inner ear convert sound waves in the air into electrical impulses.
Finding the right hearing aid means deciding on the features and styles you want and then comparing models with your hearing healthcare professional. http://www.healthyhearing.com/uploads/images/hearing-aid-pricing.jpg. Finding the right hearing aids is personal, like finding the right running shoes. Finding the right hearing aids is a bit like finding the right pair of running shoes. 
My preferences are Starkey, its alternate brand Audibel and Phonak. Starkey is an American company and Phonak is a Swiss company. I believe that these two companies make the best hearing instruments in the world. Every hearing aid is a masterpiece of design and function. Since the time this post was original written, there have been numerous changes in hearing instrument technology. Finding the best hearing aid brand means keeping up with those changes and finding out which brands have really upped their game.
Today, the hearing aid market boasts six major hearing aid brands. These brands include Starkey, Phonak, ReSound, Oticon, Siemens and Widex. These six companies lead the hearing aid industry, because they invest considerable time and money into research and development of new, innovative products. Since the time this post was original written, there have been numerous changes in hearing instrument technology. Finding the best hearing aid brand means keeping up with those changes and finding out which brands have really upped their game.
Digital Technology When you are fit with digital hearing aids, your hearing test is stored in the Hopkins Hearing database. Your audiologist then connects your hearing aid to the computer and programs the device so it can read the degree and pattern of hearing loss for the individual ear. 
Hearing aids – small digital communication devices worn near or around a person’s ear – are one of the most common ways that people battle hearing loss. Today, as people live longer and as modern life necessitates the use of loud electronic devices more often, the need for hearing aids is growing. Oticon is a hearing aid company that has been in business for more than 104 years. Founded in Denmark, the company now offers a wide range of hearing aids for customers of all ages across the globe.
There is nothing more important to the manufacturers of hearing aids and hearing healthcare professionals than your satisfaction with their product and services. Like any smart professional, they know that satisfied clients lead to repeat business and to positive word-of-mouth advertising for their products. Be patient with yourself. If you have the best hearing aids for your hearing loss and your lifestyle, hang in there. Make sure you're comfortable with the advice you've been given. Ask questions. Remember, your provider is your advocate.
A behind-the-ear (BTE) hearing aid hooks over the top of your ear and rests behind the ear. A tube connects the hearing aid to a custom earpiece called an earmold that fits in your ear canal. This type is appropriate for people of all ages and those with almost any type of hearing loss. An open-fit hearing aid: 1  Is less visible. 2  Doesn't plug the ear like the small in-the-canal hearing aids do, making your own voice sound better to you. 3  May be more difficult to handle and adjust due to small parts.
The answer is that the best hearing aid is a device for one or both ears that best helps you address a hearing impairment. The hearing aid industry is interested in delighting you, in meeting your needs and finding the best hearing aids for you. Be patient with yourself. If you have the best hearing aids for your hearing loss and your lifestyle, hang in there. Make sure you're comfortable with the advice you've been given. Ask questions. Remember, your provider is your advocate.