The credits number for completing the Associate's Degree depends on the state mandate and the concrete program of study. Usually this degree includes 60-64 semester hours or sometimes 95-105 quarter hours. However, some programs require 70 or even more hours. The Associates Degree requires the studying for two years and when the student choses, how many credits for an associates degree he needs, he may not prerequisite coursework for testing the basic skills. Some may take longer hours which depends on the required credits number.
The Associate in Arts Degree requires a minimum of 60 college-level credit hours including 36 hours in general education, 24 hours of acceptable electives, and satisfaction of the foreign language proficiency requirement. A. General Education Requirements for the Associate in Arts Degree- 36 Credits. 
Wondering how many credits are required for you to earn an associates degree? The answer depends on both your major and your school. In most cases you are eligible to graduate with an associates degree after earning approximately sixty credits. 
Requirements for an Empire State College Degree. As noted in the chart below: 1  To earn an associate degree, you must complete 64 credits, with at least 24 earned at Empire State College. 2  A bachelor's degree requires completion of 124 credits, with at least 31 earned at Empire State College. 3  Each degree program has a specific number of required liberal studies credits. 1 A bachelor's degree requires completion of 124 credits, with at least 31 earned at Empire State College. 2  Each degree program has a specific number of required liberal studies credits. 3  The number of liberal studies credits you include in your degree program determines the degree designation (B.A. = 4  94, B.S. = 62, B.P.S.
For instance, if your Associate's degree requires 90 credits, you will need to take 45 credits per year, or 15 credits per term (about 4 courses), not including summer term, in order to complete the degree in 2 years. All of the 90 credits must be 100-200 level courses. Look in the PCC Catalog to see how many credits your degree requires. Make an appointment with an advisor to make a one or two year plan to help you stay on track. To determine if you should be part-time or full-time, visit the Time Management section of Panther Tracks.
Report Abuse. An associate's degree is a 2 year degree and it takes about 60 hours. A master's degree is a graduate degree and also takes about 2 years, but you'll need a bachelor's degree first before you can get a master's. Which is better depends a little on what you want to do with your degree. Going full time (5 classes per semester), that takes two years. A master's degree is a far higher level than an associate's degree. You would need to get your bachelor's degree (two more years after your associate's) first before going on to get your master's (another two or so years after your bachelor's).
Number of credits for a AA/AS Degree. The number of credits that are required to complete an associate's degree will depend upon the state mandate and your program of study. Typically, this degree requires 60 to 64 semester hours or 95 to 105 quarter hours. For example, the state mandate in New Jersey is now a minimum of 64 semester hours for an AA, AS, or AAS. However, there are some programs that require 70 or more semester hours. It depends on how many courses one plans to take per semester. Most associate degrees require about 64 hours of college credit. If an individual were to take 16 cred … it hours during the Fall and Spring semesters and take summers off then one could complete the degree within 2 years.
Obtaining a college degree is very important. For an Associates  degree, 60 semester credits, for a Bachelors 120 credits are  needed. This also depends on the college and d … egree specifics. It depends on how many courses one plans to take per semester. Most associate degrees require about 64 hours of college credit. If an individual were to take 16 cred … it hours during the Fall and Spring semesters and take summers off then one could complete the degree within 2 years.
An associate degree is a type of undergraduate degree requiring a minimum of 60 semester credits/units (for our purposes the terms credits and units are used interchangeably). The traditional AA/AS Degree program consists of three parts: general education requirements, major requirements, and electives. 