Magnetite is a mineral, one of the three common naturally occurring iron oxides (chemical formula Fe3O4) and a member of the spinel group. Magnetite is the most magnetic of all the naturally occurring minerals on Earth. Naturally magnetized pieces of magnetite, called lodestone, will attract small pieces of iron, and this was how ancient people first noticed the property of magnetism. Small grains of magnetite occur in almost all igneous and metamorphic rocks. Magnetite is black or brownish-black with a metallic luster, has a Mohs hardness of 5–6 and a black streak. The chemical IUPAC name is iron(II,III) oxide and the common chemical name is ferrous-ferric oxide.
Magnetite is a very common iron oxide (Fe 3 O 4) mineral that is found in found in igneous, metamorphic and sedimentary rocks. It is the most commonly mined ore of iron. It is also the mineral with the highest iron content (72.4%). Magnetite is very easy to identify. It is one of just a few minerals that are attracted to a common magnet. It is a black, opaque, submetallic to metallic mineral with a Mohs hardness between 5 and 6.5. It is often found in the form of isometric crystals.
Magnetite because of its magnetic properties is also widely used in compasses and other navigation devices. This mineral also serves as an excellent abrasive that is much cleaner and comes with low toxicity than abrasives that have a silica base. Uses Of Magnetite. Magnetite as a mineral has a wide variety of uses right from serving as magnetic decor to keeping trains from moving off track. One of the most significant uses of magnetite lies in its iron ore status and its industrial importance in manufacturing steel.
Magnetite is an important ore mineral of iron. A mixture of magnetite and corundum together is known as emery, a fine-grained mineral assemblage that has been used since ancient times as an abrasive. The astrological signs of magnetite are Aries, Capricorn, Aquarius and Virgo. 
Lodestones were used as an early form of magnetic compass. Magnetite typically carries the dominant magnetic signature in rocks, and so it has been a critical tool in paleomagnetism, a science important in understanding plate tectonics and as historic data for magnetohydrodynamics and other scientific fields. Small grains of magnetite occur in almost all igneous and metamorphic rocks. Magnetite is black or brownish-black with a metallic luster, has a Mohs hardness of 5–6 and a black streak. The chemical IUPAC name is iron(II,III) oxide and the common chemical name is ferrous-ferric oxide.
As mentioned above, magnetite is a significant ore of iron. It is a ferrimagnetic mineral. Ferrimagnetic minerals are those minerals in which the magnetic moments of the mineral atoms stand in opposition on separate sublattices. Advertisement. Magnetite has a wide variety of uses, both domestic and industrial. It is one of several oxides of iron and has strong magnetic properties. Magnetite is a significant ore of iron and as such, is distinguished from other ores of iron by its tendency to attract and get attracted to magnets. Before we jump towards discussing magnetite uses, let's take a closer look at magnetite itself
Magnetite Uses. Magnetite is one the several oxides of iron and is the mineral with the highest or the strongest magnetic property on earth. Magnetite is one of the important ores of iron and is distinguished from the other iron ores by its tendency to attract and get attracted to magnets. Magnetite, to be more specific is a ferrimagnetic mineral or the mineral in which the magnetic moments of the mineral atoms stand in opposition on different sub lattices. Uses Of Magnetite. Magnetite as a mineral has a wide variety of uses right from serving as magnetic decor to keeping trains from moving off track. One of the most significant uses of magnetite lies in its iron ore status and its industrial importance in manufacturing steel.
However, there is another formula for magnetite-FeO. Fe 2 O 3 - which is a combination of the formulas for wustite (FeO) and hematite (Fe 2 O 3). This means that magnetite consists of one part of wustite and one part of hematite. Magnetite is the most magnetic mineral that is found on Earth. Advertisement. Magnetite has a wide variety of uses, both domestic and industrial. It is one of several oxides of iron and has strong magnetic properties. Magnetite is a significant ore of iron and as such, is distinguished from other ores of iron by its tendency to attract and get attracted to magnets. Before we jump towards discussing magnetite uses, let's take a closer look at magnetite itself