Joint stiffness often accompanies joint pain and/or swelling. Depending on the cause of joint stiffness, joint redness, tenderness, warmth, tingling, or numbness of an affected area of the body may be present. Joint stiffness can be caused by injury or disease of the joint and is a common finding in the arthritis conditions. Joint damage, including stiffness, can also occur following injury to the joint. Sometimes injuries or inflammation of the adjacent areas, such as bursae, can cause pain that may limit the movement of a joint and be perceived as joint stiffness. Joint pain is also referred to as arthralgia
WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms body aches or pains, joint aches, muscle stiffness (rigidity) and muscle weakness including Lack of exercise, Exercise or physical activity, and Hypocalcemia. There are 31 conditions associated with body aches or pains, joint aches, muscle stiffness (rigidity) and muscle weakness.
The most common causes of muscle pain are tension, stress, overuse and minor injuries. This type of pain is usually localized, affecting just one or more muscles or parts of your body. Systemic muscle pain, which you feel throughout your body, is different. 
When the body is toxic, inflamed and swollen, it is more likely that stress, minimal physical exertion, exercise, massage and even chiropractic treatments can cause more inflammation, swelling, stiffness and neck and joint pain, because the underlying causes have not been corrected. In short, toxic blood from dairy, chocolate, cigarettes, etc. eventually causes mid-back, neck, shoulder and arm muscle spasms and joint stiffness and pain. In a similar manner, blood toxic from dairy, coffee, alcohol, cigarettes, etc. is cleaned up by the kidneys day-to-day over the years.
Joints are the parts of your body where your bones meet. Joint pain refers to discomfort, aches, and soreness in any of the body’s joints. Joint pain is a common complaint, and does not typically require a hospital visit. Arthritis is a frequent cause of joint pain. However, it can also be caused by other conditions or factors. 
Muscle stiffness is caused when the muscles in a certain area of the body contract and become tense. Stiff muscles can happen from a variety of situations. These situations can range from having periods of inactivity to exercising, physical labor or playing sports. The joints in a person's body may experience stiffness from an injury or a strain. Stiffness in the joints can also begin as a person ages. Tendinitis, muscle spasms and arthritis cause pain and stiffness in the joints as well.
Symptoms of generalized aches and pains depend on the underlying cause. Symptoms may include muscle aches, muscle tenderness, and muscle cramps. Those with generalized aches and pains may also experience joint pains, joint stiffness, neck pain, and back pain. Usually, the discomfort is most prominent in the muscles and joints. Aches and pains are common during viral infections, such as colds. Generalized aches and pains are one of the most common symptoms of influenza. Additional common causes for aches and pains include exercise, stress, depression, and drug side effects.
A. The main fibromyalgia signs and symptoms include deep muscle pain, painful tender points, and morning stiffness. Other major symptoms of fibromyalgia include sleep problems, fatigue, and anxiety. In order to make an accurate diagnosis, your doctor will need to review your symptoms and signs of fibromyalgia. Common symptoms of fibromyalgia -- also known as fibromyalgia syndrome or FMS -- may include: 1  Pain. 2  Anxiety. 3  Concentration and memory problems -- known as fibro fog. 4  Depression. 5  Fatigue. 6  Headaches. 7  Irritable bowel syndrome. 8  Morning stiffness. 9  Painful menstrual cramps.