Step 2. Talk to your toddler about sleeping in her own bed in a positive way. Avoid criticizing or punishing your toddler if she doesn’t want to sleep in her bed because she might associate that with sleeping in the bed. Praise her for positive steps toward sleeping alone. 
Use the crib as a crib, not a playpen. Baby's bed is for sleeping, not playtime. To multifunction that space is to confuse baby. Have a routine. Nothing is more key to success in getting baby to sleep in her own room than having a consistent bedtime routine. If baby is unused to the space, then focus that bedtime ritual in the room.
5. Use a tent to transition your child into their own room. As a compromise, you could allow your child to sleep in your room, but rather than in your bed, have them sleep in a tent or camp out in your room. 1  Set up a kid's tent at the foot of your bed and let your child camp every night. 2  Then, slowly move the tent out of your room and into your child's room. 1 Set up a kid's tent at the foot of your bed and let your child camp every night. 2  Then, slowly move the tent out of your room and into your child's room. 3  Allow your child to sleep in the tent in their room every night, but move your child's bedding and stuffed animals into their bed.
2. Slowly move your baby into his own room. Put the crib by your door a few nights, then into the hallway and finally his room. You can make it easier for your baby if he has a good nighttime routine. You can also consider transitioning with naps in his room first. It makes it much easier to get up in the middle of the night for feedings or to change your baby’s diaper. Your baby might not settle down if you aren’t near. It can also make the transition to his own room harder. Some people think that babies who co-sleep breastfeed more despite disturbing their mom’s sleep less.
Spend time with them before bed. This is a good time to read to them. At the start, use special gifts from the sleep fairy, like the tooth fairy. If they sleep in their own bed, they get a little morning present. Have a sleep party with mom and dad in the kid's bed for several nights in a row. That way they get the security of the parents' company with the comfort of their own beds. 
Moving your baby from your bed to sleeping alone in a cot can be a challenge, but it's entirely possible. A lot depends on your baby's age. Bear in mind that it's best for your baby to sleep in the same room as you for his first six months. Ideally, he should sleep in a cot next to your bed. Your baby's wriggling and noisy breathing may be keeping you awake at night.
It depends on how old your baby is and how comfortable you are sleeping separately from him. For the first couple of weeks, it's easier to keep your baby in the same room while you get used to his sleeping patterns, breathing noises, and hunger signals. After that, consider keeping his crib in your bedroom for up to a year.
A crib in your room is an excellent option as it helps you recognize your baby’s breathing patterns, gives you peace of mind and helps with feedings. Healthy babies can go into their own rooms when they are four to six weeks. It makes it much easier to get up in the middle of the night for feedings or to change your baby’s diaper. Your baby might not settle down if you aren’t near. It can also make the transition to his own room harder. Some people think that babies who co-sleep breastfeed more despite disturbing their mom’s sleep less.