The first pair are the cricothyroid joints which are formed by the articulation between the cricoid cartilage and the thyroid cartilage. In this joint the thyroid cartilage glides and rotates laterally and either superiorly or inferiorly, which in turn changes the length of the vocal chords. The vocal ligament is located between the arytenoid and the thyroid cartilages. The conus elasticus stretches superiorly from the thyroid cartilage, the vocal ligament and the arytenoid cartilage inferiorly to the upper border of the cric
The intrinsic muscles (intrinsic means 'inside' or 'within') are involved in movements of individual laryngeal parts, altering the length and tension of your vocal cords, and adjusting the size of the opening between your vocal cords. The arytenoid cartilages, which anchor the vocal cords at the rear of your larynx, play a major role in tightening and moving your vocal cords in and out to vary the pitch of the sounds you make. A fold of tissue, called the ventricular fold, lies directly above
The inferior border of the thyroid cartilage is attached to the cricoid cartilage by the cricothyroid membrane in the midline and the cricothyroid muscles on either side. The superior horn along with the entire superior edge of the thyroid cartilage is attached to the hyoid bone by the thyrohyoid membrane. The larynx is located within the anterior aspect of the neck, anterior to the inferior portion of the pharynx and superior to the trachea.
Since the vocal cords are attached to the arytenoid cartilages posteriorly and the thyroid cartilage anteriorly, regulation of vocal cord tension (and therefore pitch of the voice) is accomplished primarily by pivoting the thyroid cartilage forward or backward at the cricothyroid joint (Figure 51. Figure 5. (On right) Schematic drawing of the larynx as seen from the side to show how movement of the thyroid cartilage at the cricothyroid joint affects the tension of the vocal cords. From Basmajian, Grant's Method of Anatomy, p. 530. Figure 6.
The Vocal Cords. Your vocal cords are the source of the sounds that emanate from your larynx. Each of your two vocal cords is constructed of a tough, fibrous strand-the vocal ligament-which forms the free upper and inner edge of the vocal cord. The arytenoid cartilages, which anchor the vocal cords at the rear of your larynx, play a major role in tightening and moving your vocal cords in and out to vary the pitch of the sounds you make. A fold of tissue, called the ventricular fold, lies directly above your vocal cords.
All cartilages are connected to each other by means of joints and ligaments of the larynx. The space between is filled with cartilage connecting membranes. In the motion of the joints changes the tension of the vocal cords. Schitopodyazychnaya membrane, which connects the larynx with hyoid bone, is a broad plate of connective tissue, lying between the hyoid bone and the upper edge of thyroid cartilage. They are located mounting position of the larynx, vocal muscle and vocal cords; 2) rozhkovidnye cartilage (cartilagines corniculatae) having a conical shape and located at the top of arytenoid cartilages in the thick folds cherpalonadgortannoy (plica aryepiglottica);
The thyroid cartilage is the largest of the laryngeal cartilages and forms the major chamber of the larynx. It is constructed from two relatively flat quadrilateral (four-sided) plates that are fused anteriorly in the midline along most of their length into a characteristic shield shape. The larynx is situated at the upper end of the trachea, connecting the lungs to the vocal tract. It has two main functions: 1  The first, and most important with respect to maintaining one’s health status, is as a valve.
When this movement occurs, the tension on the vocal chords changes, resulting in a different pitch of sound in the human voice. The second pair of joints are the cricoarytenoid articulations which create the movement of the arytenoid cartilage upon the lamina of the cricoid cartilage. The vocal ligament is located between the arytenoid and the thyroid cartilages. The conus elasticus stretches superiorly from the thyroid cartilage, the vocal ligament and the arytenoid cartilage inferiorly to the upper border
Thyroid cartilage. The thyroid cartilage is the largest of the laryngeal cartilages. It is formed by a right and a left lamina that are separated posteriorly and joined together at an acute angle in the anterior midline, forming the laryngeal prominence, commonly known as the Adam’s apple. The larynx is located within the anterior aspect of the neck, anterior to the inferior portion of the pharynx and superior to the trachea.
(Your vocal cords, which are stretched like violin strings across your inner larynx, are also known as vocal folds .) Through movements of its cartilages, your larynx changes the tension of your vocal cords and the width of the opening between them, thereby varying the pitch of the sounds you produce. The arytenoid cartilages, which anchor the vocal cords at the rear of your larynx, play a major role in tightening and moving your vocal cords in and out to vary the pitch of the sounds you make. A fold of tissue, called the ventricular fold, lies directly above your vocal cords.