Aspirin is the most common example. Shingles — A disease (also called herpes zoster) that causes a rash and a very painful nerve inflammation. An attack of chickenpox will eventually give rise to shingles in about 20% of the population. Trunk — That part of the body that does not include the head, arms, and legs. An acute contagious disease, usually occurring in children, caused by the varicella-zoster virus and marked by a sparse eruption of papules, which become vesicles and then pustules, usually with mild constitutional symptoms; incubation period is about 14-17 days. Synonym(s): chickenpox.
People with chickenpox are contagious a day or two before the rash appears and until all blisters have formed scabs. In children, chickenpox most commonly causes an illness that lasts about 5-10 days. Children usually miss 5 or 6 days of school or childcare due to their chickenpox. Their symptoms may include high fever, severe itching, an uncomfortable rash, dehydration, and headache. The name was meant to distinguish this weak form of the pox from smallpox. Chicken is used here, as in chickenhearted, to mean weak or timid. The pox of chickenpox is no major matter unless it becomes infected (through scratching) or occurs in an immunodeficient person.
Chickenpox. Chickenpox, also spelled chicken pox, is the commonly known name for varicella disease, frequently but not exclusively contracted in childhood. more... Chickenpox is caused by the varicella-zoster virus (VZV), also known as human herpes virus 3 (HHV-3), one of the eight herpes viruses known to affect humans. It is characterized by a fever, followed by itchy raw pox or open sores which heal without scarring.
Varicella. Chickenpox; a disease caused by the Varicella zoster virus—human herpes virus 3—that can cause severe birth defects if transmitted to the fetus during the first 20 weeks of pregnancy and newborn complications if it is transmitted perinatally. An acute contagious disease, usually occurring in children, caused by the varicella-zoster virus and marked by a sparse eruption of papules, which become vesicles and then pustules, usually with mild constitutional symptoms; incubation period is about 14-17 days.
Full Definition of CHICKEN POX. : an acute contagious disease especially of children marked by low-grade fever and formation of vesicles and caused by a herpesvirus (species Human herpesvirus 3 of the genus Varicellovirus) — compare shingles. See chicken pox defined for English-language learners. See chicken pox defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
Varicella (chickenpox): A highly infectious viral disease, known familiarly as chickenpox. (In many countries, this disease is always called varicella.). Chickenpox has nothing at all to do with chicken. The name was meant to distinguish this weak form of the pox from smallpox. 
chick·en·pox. n. An acute contagious disease, primarily of children, that is caused by the varicella-zoster virus and characterized by skin eruptions, slight fever, and malaise. Also called varicella. [ Perhaps in allusion to the mildness of the disease as contrasted with smallpox .]. 1. chickenpox-an acute contagious disease caused by herpes varicella zoster virus; causes a rash of vesicles on the face and body. varicella. pox-a contagious disease characterized by purulent skin eruptions that may leave pock marks. Translations.
Chickenpox, also known as varicella, is a highly contagious disease caused by the initial infection with varicella zoster virus (VZV). The disease results in a characteristic skin rash that forms small, itchy blisters, which eventually scab over. 
Noun. 1. chickenpox-an acute contagious disease caused by herpes varicella zoster virus; causes a rash of vesicles on the face and body. varicella. pox-a contagious disease characterized by purulent skin eruptions that may leave pock marks. Translations.
Chickenpox: A highly infectious viral disease also known medically as varicella -- in many countries, this disease is always called varicella -- that causes a blister-like rash, itching, fatigue and fever. The name was meant to distinguish this weak form of the pox from smallpox. Chicken is used here, as in chickenhearted, to mean weak or timid. The pox of chickenpox is no major matter unless it becomes infected (through scratching) or occurs in an immunodeficient person.