Wave period can be as important as swell direction for surf forecasting because it will affect the transformation of waves from the deep water to your local break. Global wave models provide deep water wave information which provides up to a weeks’ forecast of the conditions way offshore. This is because waves with the longest wavelengths and wave period travel faster in deep water. Therefore as a swell approaches land from a long distance the waves with the longest wavelengths and highest period will arrive first. The local winds will then decide the surface quality that goes with it.
The period of a wave is the time for a particle on a medium to make one complete vibrational cycle. Period, being a time, is measured in units of time such as seconds, hours, days or years. The period of orbit for the Earth around the Sun is approximately 365 days; it takes 365 days for the Earth to complete a cycle. Frequency is the reciprocal of the period. The period is 5 seconds, so the frequency is 1/(5 s) = 0.20 Hz. 8. A common physics lab involves the study of the oscillations of a pendulum. If a pendulum makes 33 complete back-and-forth cycles of vibration in 11 seconds, then its period is ______.
Period of a Wave. The wave travels through a medium that produce vibration in the medium. Thus, they travel through vibrations from one side to another side. The properties of wave are described by using some terms like wave frequency, wave number, wavelength, its time period, and velocity. Period of a Sine Wave. The wave motions of several phenomenons are sine waves or sinusoidal waves. That is when an object is rotating around a point, the height of the object at any time is the sine function of the angle made by the object with positive x-axis.
The length that a particle has traveled in one period of a wave is called wave length of the wave motion and denoted by the Greek letter $\lambda$ (pronounced as lambda). Now let us say that the particle completes 'f' cycles in a second. Therefore, we can write an equation as, f $\times$ T = 1. Period of a Sine Wave. The wave motions of several phenomenons are sine waves or sinusoidal waves. That is when an object is rotating around a point, the height of the object at any time is the sine function of the angle made by the object with positive x-axis.
The wave speed, C, can be calculated by dividing the wavelength by the wave period (C=L/T) since a wave travels one wave length each wave period. Waves are classified as deep water waves when the water depth is greater than half the wavelength and, for deep water waves, speed is determined by the wavelength. This is because waves with the longest wavelengths and wave period travel faster in deep water. Therefore as a swell approaches land from a long distance the waves with the longest wavelengths and highest period will arrive first. The local winds will then decide the surface quality that goes with it.
The standard unit of a wave period is in seconds, and it is inversely proportional to the frequency of a wave, which is the number of cycles of waves that occur in one second. The wave period is the reciprocal of the frequency. In other words, the higher the frequency of a wave, the lower the wave period. The wave period is also dependent on the wavelength and the velocity. The higher the velocity, the lower the wave period, and the higher the wavelength, the higher the wave period. To unlock this lesson you must be a Study.com Member. Wave Period: Formula and Calculation. Now that we have defined the wave period, let us now discuss the formula of the wave period. A quantity that is related to the wave period is the frequency of the wave.
1 Wave speed. 2  The speed of a swell or a wave train can be calculated by multiplying the swell period times 1.5. 3  For example, a swell or a wave train with a period of 20 seconds will be traveling at 30 knots in deep water. ( 4 Knots are nautical miles per hour. 
(under construction). Wave period. Wave frequency is also related to another measurement called the wave period (T). The wave period is just how much time it takes for one cycle to pass and the units are always in terms of time. The faster a wave moves, its wave period becomes smaller. Instead of measuring in terms of a fixed time unit, the second, the wave period uses a fixed number of cycles, one cycle ...
The peak wave period (in seconds) is defined as the wave period associated with the most. energetic waves in the total wave spectrum at a specific point. Wave regimes that are dominated. by wind waves tend to have smaller peak wave periods, and regimes that are dominated by swell. The peak wave period (in seconds) is defined as the wave period associated with the most energetic waves in the total wave spectrum at a specific point. Wave regimes that are dominated by wind waves tend to have smaller peak wave periods, and regimes that are dominated by swell tend to have larger peak wave periods