Stumps decompose in 3 to 7 years…. Stumps usually take anywhere from 3 to 7 years to decompose, depending on the type of the tree and the local environment. Pine trees and softer woods take less time to decay whereas a Hicory tree may take twice as long. In conclusion, unless you have the stumps grinding they will be with you for a long time. If you do everything possible to speed up the process, you are still looking at a two year time frame. If you are removing trees to improve the look and feel of your yard then leaving the stumps may ruin your vision.
Although it can take years for a stump to decay completely, you can usually break apart and remove the bulk of the stump long before it completely breaks down. Considerations. The best time to start accelerating the decay process in a tree stump is shortly after you cut down the tree. Until the nutrients stored in the roots of the tree are depleted, the stump will strongly resist rotting.
1. Drill holes in the stump. Drill plenty of holes across the surface of the stump. The holes should be about 1⁄2 to 1 inch (1.3 to 2.5 cm) wide and at least 8 inches (20.3 cm) deep, or 12 inches (30.5 cm) if you have a long enough drill bit. Penetrating deeply will ensure the stump gets burned down to the tips of the roots
Drill holes in the stump. Cut off as much of the top of the stump as possible. Using a 1-in. spade bit with a spade bit extension, drill 1-in. holes around the perimeter of the stump about 12 in. deep and 3 to 4 in. back from the edge. Drill more holes 3 to 4 in. down from the rim at a 45-degree angle to connect with the other holes. Pour stump remover in the holes. Pour 3 to 4 oz. of stump remover chemical into each of the holes and fill them with water. The process takes four to six weeks. You can remove a stump by renting a power stump grinder, but another way is to buy a can of stump remover (available at most garden or home centers).
I cannot say how long it would take for a tree stump to rot out in Costa Rica, I would think a much shorter time than here in Canada where we have winter for 6 months and extremely cold temperatures. As with any natural product, it does take longer to work than chemicals. Please don’t give up. Application. Drill holes in the top of the stump with a one inch spade bit. The number of holes you will drill is dependent upon how large the stump top is–start your holes three inches from the perimeter of the stump and keep them three to four inches apart until you run out of room.
Tree Stump Removal. Once a tree is cut down and removed, the question of what to do with the stump arises.. The objective of the stump removal should first be clearly defined. The use of the area after stump removal needs to be assessed, since it may determine the extent of removal operations. 
Trees produce extensive root systems that spread out and down from the base of the stump. These roots can remain active for long periods of time, causing the stump to produce new shoots with green foliage for several years after you cut down the tree. Considerations. The best time to start accelerating the decay process in a tree stump is shortly after you cut down the tree. Until the nutrients stored in the roots of the tree are depleted, the stump will strongly resist rotting.
The nitrogen in the air feeds the fungi and bacteria that decompose the stump. You can drill holes 8″ – 12″ into the stump and add Nitrogen based fertilizers to speed along the process. Without washing away fertilizer, spray the stump lightly with water then cover it with leaves, dirt, or other compost. In conclusion, unless you have the stumps grinding they will be with you for a long time. If you do everything possible to speed up the process, you are still looking at a two year time frame. If you are removing trees to improve the look and feel of your yard then leaving the stumps may ruin your vision.
The stump left behind by a large tree can last up to 10 years without treatment. The exact amount of time it takes a stump to decay varies depending on the species of tree and the conditions in your yard. If you do not want to wait, there are ways you can encourage a stump to break down on your schedule instead of nature's. Considerations. The best time to start accelerating the decay process in a tree stump is shortly after you cut down the tree. Until the nutrients stored in the roots of the tree are depleted, the stump will strongly resist rotting.
Drill holes in the stump. Drill a pattern of holes across the surface of the stump, so the solution will be able to penetrate. The holes should be about 1⁄2 to 1 inch (1.3 to 2.5 cm) wide and at least 8 inches (20.3 cm) deep, or 12 inches (30.5 cm) if you have a long enough drill bit. Drill plenty of holes across the surface of the stump