About Donald Trump. Donald Trump has an estimated net worth of $4.1 billion as of May 2015 according to Forbes. In 2003, Trump became the executive producer and host of the NBC reality show, The Apprentice, in which a group of competitors battled for a high-level management job in one of Trump’s commercial enterprises. 
Buffett's net worth swelled from $2.5 billion in 1988 to a current $67.8 billion. And Trump's industry peer, real estate magnate Donald Bren, owner and chairman of U.S.-based real estate investment company the Irvine Company, has seen his net worth mushroom from $1.9 billion in 1988 to $15.2 billion in 2015. Donald Trump Net Worth: Donald Trump, the current frontrunner in the crowded GOP run for the White House, is estimated to have net worth of $4 billion.
$60 Million. Donald Trump net worth: Donald Trump is an American real-estate developer, author and television personality who has a net worth of $4.5 billion. His annual salary for Celebrity Apprentice is $60 million. The main reason this net worth differs from most generally accepted evaluations of his wealth, has to do with how Donald values his personal brand. In his net worth estimate, Donald values his personal brand at $3.3 billion. Other analysts value the brand at closer to $50 or $100 million. 1  Donald Trump Jr.
In addition to Trump's claim, and to the Forbes amount, there are two more different numbers floating around that claim to answer, How much money does Donald Trump have?. Bloomberg has Trump's wealth at a comparatively paltry $2.9 billion. His campaign claims Trump's total worth is in excess of $10 billion, reported The Washington Post on Oct. 1. And Trump himself said as much the day he announced his campaign on June 16: My massive net worth is in excess of ten billion dollars..
The world learned much about real-estate mogul Donald Trump's wealth this week, as the Federal Election Commission released a 92-page personal-financial-disclosure report filed by the Republican presidential candidate as part of his nascent campaign. As an example, if a building owned by Mr. Trump is worth $1.5 billion, the box checked is '$50,000,000 or more,' the campaign's statement said. The day of his campaign-launch speech last month, Trump released a one-page report that described his net worth as being approximately $8.7 billion.
Comment. Sign me up for the Money Morning newsletter. Donald Trump Net Worth: Donald Trump, the current frontrunner in the crowded GOP run for the White House, is estimated to have net worth of $4 billion. According to Forbes estimates, Trump's net worth quadrupled from $1 billion between 1988 and today
I've got that much in stock market assets alone. There's 100 percent of Trump Tower, 100 percent of the new Nike store -- they're paying $10 million a year in rent!' Add it all up, said Trump, and his net worth is 'in the $2 billion range, probably over $2 billion.' (Don't worry, Donald. For decades, Donald Trump, America's most effervescent rich guy, has made his wealth a matter of public discourse. But sometimes his riches are hard to find. This article was adapted from TrumpNation: The Art of Being the Donald, by Timothy L. O'Brien, a reporter for The New York Times.
In March 2011 Forbes estimated Donald Trump's net worth to be $2.7 billion, with a $60 million salary. Many praise and analyze his “success” as if it were self-made, and they fail to attribute the proper credit to others in society where it is deserved. 
Donald Trump net worth: Donald Trump is an American real-estate developer, author and television personality who has a net worth of $4.5 billion. The main reason this net worth differs from most generally accepted evaluations of his wealth, has to do with how Donald values his personal brand. In his net worth estimate, Donald values his personal brand at $3.3 billion. Other analysts value the brand at closer to $50 or $100 million. 1  Donald Trump Jr.