Some bacteria is good for your body, and if you get rid of too much bacteria you can get a infection. [For example when you don't have enough … bacteria in your vagina that's when you get a infection down there]. Eat some yogurt or cheese. It already has live bacteria in it. You also already have bacteria in your body because they live in your intestines and help you digest food.they a … re also in the air you breathe. not all bacteria is harmless.
For example, they can come into your body through your mouth, or your nose, or your ears. Because bacteria are very small, they can even come in through very small openings, such as the pores of your skin! Your body has a lot of defenses to keep the bad bacteria from coming in too far through these openings. You can breath them in from the air and they enter your lungs. If you touch a bacteria or virus and then rub your nose or eyes they can enter your body that way as well. Sometimes, when someone sneezes on you the virus or bacteria in their snot will land on you, that is why we say cover your mouth!.
Bacteria gets into the body … when there is an open wound or an open patch of skin. When a knee is scraped and a person has an open wound, it gives bacteria a chance to come directly into the body. Hope this helps! Bacteria can also enter the body if you have food poisoning. You also already have bacteria in your body because they live in your intestines and help you digest food.they are also in the air you breathe. not all bacteria is harmless.
Bacteria can get into your body when you are urinating, the reason for this is because when you urinate the odour is let out which mixes in with the air so when you breathe in and out the conjeration of this act will inform with your lungs making your body interact with the bacteria. Eat some yogurt or cheese. It already has live bacteria in it. You also already have bacteria in your body because they live in your intestines and help you digest food.they a … re also in the air you breathe. not all bacteria is harmless.
Germs and bacteria are almost everywhere in the world. Bacteria gets into the body … when there is an open wound or an open patch of skin. When a knee is scraped and a person has an open wound, it gives bacteria a chance to come directly into the body. Hope this helps! Bacteria can also enter the body if you have food poisoning. Eat some yogurt or cheese. It already has live bacteria in it. You also already have bacteria in your body because they live in your intestines and help you digest food.they a … re also in the air you breathe. not all bacteria is harmless.
Answer 1: Both viruses and bacteria can enter the body different ways. You can eat them if they are in a certain type of food or live in the animal or plant you are eating. You can get them from the water, either swimming in it or drinking it. You can breath them in from the air and they enter your lungs. If you touch a bacteria or virus and then rub your nose or eyes they can enter your body that way as well. Sometimes, when someone sneezes on you the virus or bacteria in their snot will land on you, that is why we say cover your mouth!.
1 If a bacteria or virus does get into the body, the immune system tries to detect and eliminate it before it can make itself at home and reproduce. 2  If the virus or bacteria is able to reproduce and start causing problems, your immune system is in charge of eliminating it. Your body is a multi-cellular organism made up of perhaps 100 trillion cells. The cells in your body are fairly complicated machines. Each one has a nucleus, energy production equipment, etc. Bacteria are single-celled organisms that are much simpler.
0. The inside of the human body is a bacteria-free zone. Bacteria are certainly within you, but they exist only in areas that have a direct channel to the outside world, such as the mouth, intestines and the surface of the skin. 
In order to get into the body, bacteria must come into direct physical contact with it. This can happen in many different ways. An individual may acquire bacteria in any of the following ways. 
There are many kinds of bacteria. Some bacteria is good for your body, and if you get rid of too much bacteria you can get a infection. [For example when you don't have enough … bacteria in your vagina that's when you get a infection down there]. You also already have bacteria in your body because they live in your intestines and help you digest food.they are also in the air you breathe. not all bacteria is harmless.