7. Myth: The best time to fertilize your lawn is in early spring. Reality: Different varieties of grass like nutrients at different times of the year. You need to use the right fertilizer source, at the right rate, at the right time, and in the right place. Grubs in small numbers are not harmful to a lawn; in fact, they are beneficial, as they aerate the soil. It’s having too many that can be harmful. Call a professional to evaluate your lawn.10. Myth: Watering the lawn with the garden hose saves more money than installing an irrigation system.
Do a Soil Test. Determine the pH of your soil. The pH level is a measure of the alkalinity or acidity of a substance. The pH of your soil is important because it determines the ability of the grass to use the ingredients in the fertilizer. Your soil test will determine which fertilizer is best for you. Bring your soil as close to neutral as possible to get the most benefit from the fertilizer you use.
When to sow a lawn. If you want a fantastic lawn, but don’t want the expense of buying turf, try creating it from seed. Grass seed is best sown from late summer to mid-autumn; there is less competition from weeds, and the soil is warm, and damp from rain. Perfect for seeds to germinate. 
1 A healthy lawn needs good soil. 2  Most turfgrasses prefer neutral soils. 3  To be sure that your efforts aren't in vain, always perform a soil test first and make the recommended amendments. 4  Don't apply a weed preventer (liquid or granular) or use weed and feed fertilizer when planning to sow grass. 
Therefore, need about 47 pounds of 15-5-10 fertilizer to cover entire lawn. After calculating how much to apply, when to apply is the other important decision. Early fall (September 1-15) is a key time for fertilizing lawns in northern Illinois. 
For all these reasons, if you had to choose just one time of the year to fertilize your lawn, you’d want to do it in the fall, sometime just before or after Labor Day. An application of nitrogen-rich, slow-release fertilizer will continue to feed your lawn and provide essential nourishment for the coming spring. Avoid using weed and feed if you plan to reseed your lawn in the same season. As a general rule, you can apply weed and feed in the spring and overseed in the fall and be safe. Summer is hard on lawns.
1 Before fertilizing,try to make sure your lawn does not have an excess buildup of thatch that can suspend the fertilizer in the grass leaves and inhibiting it from reaching the soil. 2  Suspended fertilizer can also burn the grass leafs. 3  Avoid fertilizing your lawn during periods of drought or when it is excessively dry. 
Fertilizing your lawn can help you get the lush, green grass you desire. To properly fertilize your lawn it's important to prepare the ground, pick out the right fertilizer, and use a method that will give your lawn the best chance to grow in stronger and healthier. 4. Buy fertilizer. Now that you know what kind of grass you have, the pH of your soil, and the size of your yard, pick out fertilizer that meets your lawn's needs. There are a lot of different types of fertilizer to choose from, and it's good to do a little research before picking one.
The hallmark of a healthy lawn is a deep green color and the ability to grow back after normal wear and tear and regular mowing. Sometimes, however, grass needs some extra help in the form of nutrients that are not readily available in the soil to stay healthy. In this case, you can apply a lawn fertilizer that will revitalize and enrich the soil, providing your grass with the nourishment it requires. Avoid using weed and feed if you plan to reseed your lawn in the same season. As a general rule, you can apply weed and feed in the spring and overseed in the fall and be safe. Summer is hard on lawns.