Since then Colombia, Venezuela and Ecuador all use the three color yellow-blue-red flag, the flag of Colombia is the ancient Great Colombia flag. The flags of Colombia and Ecuador are almost entirely the same, the difference is that Ecuador made its weapon at the center of its flag. And used a different aspect ratio. The flag of Colombia was adopted by law on November 26, 1861. The flag has three horizontal stripes in the shades yellow, blue and red. The yellow track is the size of the blue and red together.
The flag of Colombia was adopted on December 17, 1819. It is a horizontal tricolour of yellow, blue and red. The yellow stripe takes up the top half of the flag and the blue and red take up a quarter of the space each. National flag and state ensign. It—together with that of Ecuador, also derived from the flag of Gran Colombia —is different from most other tricolour flags, either vertical or horizontal, in having stripes which are not equal in size.
The horizontal stripes (from top to bottom) of yellow, blue and red tricolour have a ratio of 2:1:1. It—together with that of Ecuador, also derived from the flag of Gran Colombia —is different from most other tricolour flags, either vertical or horizontal, in having stripes which are not equal in size.
Colombia Flag: The current flag of Colombia was officially adopted on December 17, 1819. The flag features three horizontal bands of yellow (double-width), blue and red. Colors of the flag are commonly interpreted in two ways:
Flag of Colombia. The flag of Colombia is one of our three national symbols, along with the hymn and the coat of arms. Colombia's flag is rectangular and has the three primary colors: yellow, blue and red. Historians and researchers differ in their explanations regarding the origin and meaning of the flag colors. Others claim that the yellow and red were taken from the flag of Spain, and blue was added to these two colors as a symbol of the sea that separates Colombia and Spain.
DESCRIPTION. The current flag of Colombia was officially adopted on December 17, 1819. The flag features three horizontal bands of yellow (double-width), blue and red. Colors of the flag are commonly interpreted in two ways: 
there is no meaning to the Colombian flag. But there are theories behind what it might mean. Like yellow symbolizes sovereignty and justice. Blue is for nobility, loyalty, and … vigilance. Yellow represents the richness of Colombia (not only gold, emeralds and coffee, but also its biodiversity and human capital). Blue represents the Country's water wealth it is surrounded by 2 oceans and covered by lots of rivers.
Best Answer: Ok, I am Colombian and I will tell you what means the flag of Colombia: The yellow color means the wealth that found the Spanish conquerors when arriving at our earth. The blue color means the oceanos that surround our earth: The pacific and atlantic oceans. 
Proportions: 2:3. Colombian Flag Description: The Colombian flag consists of three horizontal stripes-the top stripe is yellow; the middle stripe is blue; and the bottom stripe is red. The yellow stripe is larger and is half of the width (height) of the flag. The blue and red stripes are each one quarter of the flag's width. 
The most common explanation of the flag's colors say that the yellow represents abundance and wealth of our country; blue symbolizes the two oceans that bathe the Colombian coasts; and red represents both the blood spilled by the liberators and the blood that feeds the heart, universal symbol of love. Others claim that the yellow and red were taken from the flag of Spain, and blue was added to these two colors as a symbol of the sea that separates Colombia and Spain.