The most common use of peat moss is to lower the pH of soil for planting certain species. Mixing peat moss into a planting bed allows plants that prefer a more acidic environment to survive in soil that is otherwise more alkaline.
This wonderful gardening material is also what peat pots and pellets are made of. Peat pots holds seed starting soil, yet is soft enough for the plant roots to grow right through the walls of the pots. At transplanting time, the plant and pot are planted in the garden soil.
Two-thirds of the world's peat moss is found in Russia, with large reserves also common in Finland, Ireland, Canada and the northern part of the Midwestern states in the United States, according to the University of Vermont.
Overview. Coco coir is made from the residue of the extraction of long fibers from the husks of coconuts. Peat moss is a dead layer under living sphagnum moss growing on top of bogs in North America, Ireland, Scotland and northern Europe. Peat moss is a traditional soilless growing medium.
Peat moss is made from decomposed mosses, such as sphagnum, hypnum, reeds or sedge. The most common source of peat moss is sphagnum.
Sphagnum. Peat moss is the common name for a variety of mosses from the genus Sphagnum, all of which can be found growing on and in peat bogs. The tough, fibrous moss increases the acidity of the bog on which it grows, as well as reducing airflow to the decaying matter underneath.
Peat moss is commonly used in flower beds and planters to help regulate water and air flow to flowers, shrubs and other plants. There are many common sources of this common product for your garden.
Peat moss is mined, which involves scraping off the top layer of living sphagnum moss. The sphagnum peat bog above the mined product is a habitat for plants like sundews, butterwort and bog rosemary, as well as rare and endangered animals like dragonflies, frogs and birds, not to mention the living moss itself.
Many potting mixes are based on a combination of soil and peat moss. Soils and potting mixes can seem very confusing to the novice gardener, as there are so many different choices available. An important point to remember is that most plants are so adaptable, they can survive in just about any mix.