Details. The perfect match for your favorite shooting vest or jacket, our comfortable and warm shooting breeks are made of 100% cotton moleskin, known for its softness, durability, and wind resistance. Teflon coated to repel moisture and Amaretta reinforced. Two slant front pockets, and a buttoned rear pocket. These breeks run pretty small in the waist. I usually wear a 34-35 waist so I got the 36. Way too tight. I got the 38's which seemed ridiculous, but they did fit, although a little big.
See More. If you are someone who likes to try new food, but still within your comfort zone, why not our 1-for-1 Chicken Chop with Creole Jam ! The Grilled Chicken is tender, with a savory taste. While the Creole Jam gives a more tomato taste, which goes really well with the Chicken ! With the Cajun fries and complimentary Soup-of-the-day, nothing will goes wrong with this dish ! Promotion ends on 31th Oct 2015.
Breeks is the Scots term for trousers, breeches and, as the Dictionary of the Scots Language (online) has it, also underpants. Outside Scotland the term breeks is often used to refer to breeches, a trouser similar to plus fours, especially when worn in Scotland and engaging in field sports such as deer stalking, and the activities of taking pheasant, duck, partridge and other game birds.
1 He still wears the same breeks as he did in 1983. 2  There were pieces of clothing, breeks and cloaks that looked perfectly normal, but these produced their own warmth. 3  His only garment was a well-worn pair of loose-fitting breeks. 
Breeks is featured in Daniel's Food Diary ! Thank you for the featured ! As spoken to Daniel, he mention that Breeks has been a brand he often went with his schoolmates and our food has continuously improved over these period of time ! like emoticon. The Grilled Chicken is tender, with a savory taste. While the Creole Jam gives a more tomato taste, which goes really well with the Chicken ! With the Cajun fries and complimentary Soup-of-the-day, nothing will goes wrong with this dish ! Promotion ends on 31th Oct 2015.