The meaning of Maverick is “Dissenter, Wildly Independent”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Instead, we recommend that you pay a greater attention to the origin and meaning of the name Maverick. Read our baby name articles for useful tips regarding baby names and naming your baby. If you are thinking of giving your baby the beautiful name Maverick, spread the love and share this with your friends.
Meanings and history of the name Maverick: | Edit. A 19th century Texas rancher with the surname of 'Maverick' refused to brand his calves. The name has since been used to describe an independent person or way of thinking. Comments and insights on the name Maverick: | Edit. We came across the name Maverick in 2006 when I was pregnant with our first child together. We found out we were having a girl.
[ 3 syll. ma-ve-ric(k) , mav-eri-ck ] The baby boy name Maverick is sometimes used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is M EY V-er-iy-K †. Maverick is largely used in the English language and it is derived from English-American origins. The name's meaning is a wild nonconformist, an independent free spirit. Mavarick, Maveric, Maverik, Maveryck, Maveryk, Mavric, Mavrick (English), and Mavrik are variants of Maverick. Maverick is fairly popular as a baby name for boys, and it is also viewed as trendy. The name's popularity has been rising since the 1990s. At the recent peak of its usage in 2012, 0.042% of baby boys were given the name Maverick.
Derived from the English word maverick meaning independent. The word itself is derived from the surname of a 19th-century Texas rancher who did not brand his calves.
Maverick /mav-er-ick/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced MAV-rick. It is of American origin, and the meaning of Maverick is an independent man who avoids conformity. A 19th-century American named Maverick refused to brand his calves as other ranchers did; his name has since then been used in common language. Kreatif forms: Madverick, Marverick, Miverick. Maverick is an uncommonly occurring given name for men but a somewhat prominent surname for all people (#102173 out of 150436, Top 68%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the baby name popularity of Maverick for boys.
English Meaning: The name Maverick is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Maverick is: When a nineteenth-century American named Maverick refused to brand his calves as other ranchers did; his name came to signify an independent man who avoids conformity. American Meaning: The name Maverick is an American baby name.
Other origins for the name Maverick include-English, American.The name Maverick is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-When a nineteenth-century American named Maverick refused to brand his calves as other ranchers did; his name came to signify an independent man who avoids conformity. Origin-English. Alternate Origins-American.
Meaning of Maverick. English name. In English, the name Maverick means-When a nineteenth-century American named Maverick refused to brand his calves as other ranchers did; his name came to signify an independent man who avoids conformity.. English Name Meaning-When a nineteenth-century American named Maverick refused to brand his calves as other ranchers did; his name came to signify an independent man who avoids conformity. Origin-English. Alternate Origins-American.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Maverick. Maverick is an English vocabulary word meaning “independently minded”. Interestingly, the word was coined in the mid-1800s by the ranch neighbors of Samuel Maverick, a Texas politician and land baron who refused to brand his cattle. 