Emergency custody of children is often sought if one parent becomes abusive and presents imminent harm or threat to the child. Other instances include child abandonment or parental substance abuse that puts the child in danger.
States Have Jurisdiction Rules. According to the terms of the Uniform Child Custody Jurisdiction and Enforcement Act, parents can only file for custody in the state where the child has lived for the past six months. The UCCJEA includes provisions for emergency custody, however. If you flee your home state because your child is in danger from her other parent, the new state can use emergency jurisdiction authority to issue a temporary custody order until a more permanent solution may be addressed.
There are situations that require a non-parent to assume emergency custody of a child. Here is some information about emergency child custody:
In an emergency custody hearing, a judge hears preliminary evidence and addresses emergency situations only. She may enter a temporary order granting custody to one parent based on the facts of the emergency.
Emergency custody doesn’t apply only to parents. If you know that an adult is neglecting or abusing a child, you can report the situation to your county’s social services and file paperwork with the court to have the child placed with you on a temporary emergency basis.
1 If there is a written agreement between you and the other parent about the temporary custody of your child, attach it to the Temporary Emergency Court Orders form. ( 2 If there is no agreement, skip this step).
Where there is a threat of immediate physical or sexual harm to the minor, the Court has the power to take immediate action to get the child to safety. This can even happen through an Ex Parte Proceeding where one parent asks for emergency custody while the other parent is not present.
A minor can be taken into emergency custody when s/he is exposed to substantial risk of bodily injury or sexual abuse or neglect. The custodial parent or a state child welfare agency can file a motion before the court for emergency custody.