For the copper mine at this location, see Bingham Canyon Mine. Bingham was a city formerly located in southwestern Salt Lake County, Utah, United States, in a narrow canyon on the eastern face of the Oquirrh Mountains. Mining activity in Bingham Canyon boomed after the Bingham Canyon and Camp Floyd Rail Road completed a line to the canyon in 1873, and as the region grew the focus shifted to the high-quality copper ores in the district.
For the former city at this location, see Bingham Canyon, Utah. The Bingham Canyon Mine, more commonly known as Kennecott Copper Mine among locals, is an open-pit mining operation extracting a large porphyry copper deposit southwest of Salt Lake City, Utah, USA, in the Oquirrh Mountains. Bingham's Canyon mine expanded rapidly, and by the 1920s the region was a beehive of activity. Some 15,000 people of widely varying ethnicity lived in the canyon, in large residential communities constructed on the steep canyon walls.
The copper operations at Bingham Canyon Mine are managed through Kennecott Utah Copper Corporation which operates the mine, a concentrator plant, a smelter, and a refinery. Bingham's Canyon mine expanded rapidly, and by the 1920s the region was a beehive of activity. Some 15,000 people of widely varying ethnicity lived in the canyon, in large residential communities constructed on the steep canyon walls.
Kennecott’s Bingham Canyon Mine is the largest man-made excavation in the world, and some claim that it is the only manmade feature visible to the naked eye from an orbiting space shuttle. Bingham's Canyon mine expanded rapidly, and by the 1920s the region was a beehive of activity. Some 15,000 people of widely varying ethnicity lived in the canyon, in large residential communities constructed on the steep canyon walls.
The Bingham Canyon Mine is one of the largest open-pit mines in the world, measuring more than 4 kilometers (2.5 miles) wide and 1,200 meters (3,900 feet) deep. Located about 30 kilometers (18 miles) southwest of Salt Lake City, Utah, the mine is a major producer of copper, gold, silver, and molybednum. 
The deepest mine. Bingham Canyon Mine, located near Salt Lake City, is the world's deepest man-made open pit excavation. The mine is 2.75 miles (4,5km) across and 0.75 mile (1,2km) deep. Since mining operations started in 1906, Bingham Canyon Mine has been the granddaddy of all copper mines
6 p.m.: Slide reported at Kennecott's Bingham Canyon Mine. MAGNA — A significant landslide occurred Wednesday night at the Bingham Canyon Mine, Kennecott Utah Copper officials confirmed. The slide occurred around 9:30 p.m. in the northeast section of the mine, Kennecott spokesman Kyle Bennett said
At 6700 feet above sea level, you can stand and look down into the largest man-made excavation on earth. The Bingham Canyon Mine is less than an hour from Salt Lake City. Located west of Salt Lake City in the Oquirrh Mountains, it is the world's oldest and largest open-pit copper mine. 