Technically geothermal energy is thermal (heat) energy provided by the hot interior of the Earth. Most often it is in the form of steam which is directed into te turbines of a standard power plant. The only pollution resulting from it is the thermal pollution of the disposal of heated water to the environment. Geothermal energy is energy produced using the heat from under the earth.     Hydrothermal is energy produced by using the different temperatures of water. Pl … aces in the Tropics with warm surface water but also deep cold water are most suitable.   Both geothermal and hydrothermal are renewable and clean
Geothermal energy is the energy stored in the form of heat beneath the earth's surface. Geothermal energy is a carbon free, renewable, sustainable form of energy that provides a continuous, uninterrupted supply of heat that can be used to heat homes and office buildings and to generate electricity. Deep geothermal energy in operation. Locations of existing geothermal operation. Geothermal energy plants are normally located in regions where there is volcanic activity, such as in Iceland and New Zealand. The first electricity to be generated from geothermal was at Larderello in northern Italy in 1904.
Geothermal energy has other uses besides the production of  electricity in power plants.    Geothermal sources of hot water can be used to heat buildings.  Hot water is pumped through pipes located in the building walls to  heat the building. Geothermal energy is energy produced using the heat from under the earth.     Hydrothermal is energy produced by using the different temperatures of water. Pl … aces in the Tropics with warm surface water but also deep cold water are most suitable.   Both geothermal and hydrothermal are renewable and clean
Photograph by Medford Taylor. Geothermal energy has been used for thousands of years in some countries for cooking and heating. It is simply power derived from the Earth's internal heat.This thermal energy is contained in the rock and fluids beneath Earth's crust. There are many advantages of geothermal energy. It can be extracted without burning a fossil fuel such as coal, gas, or oil. Geothermal fields produce only about one-sixth of the carbon dioxide that a relatively clean natural-gas-fueled power plant produces.
Geothermal energy is heat derived below the earth’s surface which can be harnessed to generate clean, renewable energy. This vital, clean energy resource supplies renewable power around the clock and emits little or no greenhouse gases -- all while requiring a small environmental footprint to develop. 
Power plants produce geothermal energy by utilizing geothermal dry  steam or geothermal hot water accessed by digging wells. Dry steam  or hot water is brought to the surfac … e through pipes and processed  into electricity in the power plant. Geothermal energy is energy produced using the heat from under the earth.     Hydrothermal is energy produced by using the different temperatures of water. Pl … aces in the Tropics with warm surface water but also deep cold water are most suitable.   Both geothermal and hydrothermal are renewable and clean
If so, then you've seen geothermal energy in action! Geo means from the earth, and thermal means heat, so this type of energy is found under the earth. The hot lava from a volcano and the hot steam from a geyser both come from underground heat and we can use that same type of heat in our homes. 
Geothermal energy uses the heat from the centre of the earth, so it has no harmful greenhouse emissions.Regular ways of generating electricity, from burning fossil fuels, rele … ase carbon dioxide.We need to slow and stop global warming so renewable energy like geothermal is a good way to do it. The most common places geothermal energy is used are found in communities that are built close to active or dormant volcanoes and are near tectonic plates. They use the … heat from the molten rock (magma) in the ground as a source for heat and energy in houses.
Geothermal energy is a clean, renewable resource that provides energy in the U.S. and around the world. Heat flows constantly from the earth’s interior and will continue to radiate for billions of years to come, ensuring an inexhaustible supply of energy. Geothermal power can be produced as a baseload renewable energy resource, meaning it operates 24 hours a day, 7 days a week regardless of changing weather, providing a uniquely reliable and continuous source of clean energy.