Resistant bacteria: Mrsa stands for  methicillin resistant staphylococcus aureus . Staph aureus is a common bacteria that can cause skin and other infections. Due to overuse of antibiotics this bacteria can develop resistance to most, if not all antibiotics. It can be treated but it is a problem that can recur. Get help from a doctor now ›. MRSA: Mrsa is the abbreviation for methicillin resistant staph aureus. It is an infection with a bacteria that has figured out how to avoid being killed by usually effective antibiotics. Most mrsa, if you have a healthy immune system is curable.
Definition. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infection is caused by a type of staph bacteria that's become resistant to many of the antibiotics used to treat ordinary staph infections. 
MRSA is a Methicillin-resistant strain of the Staphylococcus aureus infection, and is generally curable. About 90% of all cases with community-associated (CA-MRSA) strai … ns were cured with the use of super-antibiotics such as Vancomycin. No The above answer is categorically wrong.MRSA can be treated with antibiotics that are sufficiently different in structure than the methicillin group. Among these are vancomycin, daptomycin, linezolid and others.
Get help from a doctor now ›. Staph: Mrsa stands for methicillin resistant staphylococcus aureus. This is the name of a specific type of staph bacteria that is not curable / treatable by methicillin (a penicillin like drug). In most instances penicillin and cephalosporin type antibiotics will not kill mrsa. Get help from a doctor now ›. MRSA: Mrsa is the abbreviation for methicillin resistant staph aureus. It is an infection with a bacteria that has figured out how to avoid being killed by usually effective antibiotics. Most mrsa, if you have a healthy immune system is curable.
Report Abuse. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infection is caused by Staphylococcus aureus bacteria — often called staph.. Decades ago, a strain of staph emerged in hospitals that was resistant to the broad-spectrum antibiotics commonly used to treat it. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. MRSA is a Methicillin-resistant strain of the Staphylococcus aureus infection, and is generally curable. About 90% of all cases with community-associated (CA-MRSA) strains were cured with the use of super-antibiotics such as Vancomycin. However, some healthcare facilities are already seeing hospital-associated (HA-MRSA) Vancomycin-resistant strains of the infection. Depends on the severity of the infection, but personally I would say no. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a strain of staph bacteria that does not respond … to some antibiotics that are commonly used to treat staph infections.
In this article. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a bacterium that causes infections in different parts of the body. It's tougher to treat than most strains of staphylococcus aureus -- or staph -- because it's resistant to some commonly used antibiotics. 
Get help from a doctor now ›. Resistant bacteria: Mrsa stands for  methicillin resistant staphylococcus aureus . Staph aureus is a common bacteria that can cause skin and other infections. Due to overuse of antibiotics this bacteria can develop resistance to most, if not all antibiotics. Get help from a doctor now ›. MRSA: Mrsa is the abbreviation for methicillin resistant staph aureus. It is an infection with a bacteria that has figured out how to avoid being killed by usually effective antibiotics. Most mrsa, if you have a healthy immune system is curable.
Staph: Mrsa stands for methicillin resistant staphylococcus aureus. This is the name of a specific type of staph bacteria that is not curable / treatable by methicillin (a penicillin like drug). In most instances penicillin and cephalosporin type antibiotics will not kill mrsa. Get help from a doctor now ›. MRSA: Mrsa is the abbreviation for methicillin resistant staph aureus. It is an infection with a bacteria that has figured out how to avoid being killed by usually effective antibiotics. Most mrsa, if you have a healthy immune system is curable.