L-DOPA, the metabolic precursor of dopamine, does reach the brain and is the most widely used treatment for Parkinson's disease. Dopaminergic stimulants can be addictive in high doses, but some are used at lower doses to treat ADHD. Its name derives from its chemical structure: it is an amine formed by removing a carboxyl group from a molecule of L-DOPA. In the brain, dopamine functions as a neurotransmitter —a chemical released by nerve cells to send signals to other nerve cells.
Dopaminergic neurons of the midbrain are the main source of dopamine (DA) in the mammalian central nervous system. Their loss is associated with one of the most prominent human neurological disorders, Parkinson's disease (PD). Studies into the developmental pathways which are involved in the generation of dopaminergic neurons in the brain have led to the identification of several specific transcription factors including Nurr1, Lmx1b and Pitx3, all shown to be important in the development of the mesencephalic dopaminergic system.
Although their numbers are few, these dopaminergic neurons play an important role in the control of multiple brain functions including voluntary movement and a broad array of behavioral processes such as mood, reward, addiction, and stress. Studies into the developmental pathways which are involved in the generation of dopaminergic neurons in the brain have led to the identification of several specific transcription factors including Nurr1, Lmx1b and Pitx3, all shown to be important in the development of the mesencephalic dopaminergic system.
Dopaminergic neurons. The human brain contains approximately 400,000 to 600,000 dopaminergic neurons and thus make up less than 1% of the total number of brain neurons. There are nine dopamine-containing neuronal cell groups in the mammalian brain, each with distinct cellular properties. Greater than 70% of all dopaminergic neurons are located in the substantia nigra (see Nigral dopaminergic Cell). Axons of dopaminergic neurons project to the brain by using one of three pathways: the mesostriatal, mesolimbic and mesocortical.
Definition of DOPAMINERGIC. : liberating, activated by, or involving dopamine or related substances. ADVERTISEMENT. adjective do·pa·mi·ner·gic \ˌdō-pə-ˌmē-ˈnər-jik\
Dopaminergic means related to dopamine  (literally, working on dopamine), dopamine being a common neurotransmitter. Dopaminergic substances or actions increase dopamine-related activity in the brain. Dopaminergic brain structures facilitate dopamine-related activity. For example, certain proteins such as the dopamine transporter (DAT), vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT 2), and dopamine receptors can be classified as dopaminergic, and neurons that synthesize or contain dopamine and synapses with dopamine receptors in them may also be labeled as dopaminergic.
Abstract. Dopaminergic neurons represent less than 1% of the total number of neurons in the brain. This low amount of neurons regulates important brain functions such as motor control, motivation, and working memory. Nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons selectively degenerate in Parkinson's disease (PD)
Dopamine is an organic chemical of the catecholamine and phenethylamine families that plays several important roles in the human brain and body, as well as elsewhere in biology. Its name derives from its chemical structure: it is an amine formed by removing a carboxyl group from a molecule of L-DOPA. In the brain, dopamine functions as a neurotransmitter —a chemical released by nerve cells to send signals to other nerve cells. The brain includes several distinct dopamine systems, one of which plays a major role in reward-motivated behavior