People in the south tend to expect bigger pulled pork sandwiches. 3 oz is a small sandwich for a hamburger bun, 4 oz a generous one, 6 oz a larger bun or half of a 12 French roll, and generally 1 oz per inch of French roll. 
2. I think 1 lb. per person before cooking is a good guideline, you will lose some weight to moisture loss, trimming fat and bones, etc. but 1 lb. of cooked meat per person sounds like too much unless you're not serving anything else or the event is mainly about the meat (like a barbecue). That's size per portion after cooking. You are making pulled pork and brisket, and each of those will lose just over 40% of their weight during cooking. So if you assume 5 ounces of brisket and 5 ounces of pork per person, that's about 8.3 ounces of each meat pre-cooked per person.
I'm doing pulled pork for a group of about 25. I've never done PP for more than about 8 of us and I always did about a 7-8 lb. Boston butt and it was plenty. But, I really don't know how much to smoke per person for a group. About how much uncooked Boston butt do I need?
Originally Posted by tnjimbob. easy calculation formula for pulled pork: 10 oz. pre-cooked weight per person X number of people, divided by 16 to get pounds of pre-cooked weight. For 30 people - 10 X 30 = 300 / 16 = 18.75 lbs. precooked weight. This will usually allow for plenty of cooking loss and provide a little cushion as necessary. Originally Posted by BigBobBQ. the usual approximate is 1/4lb per person I usually go that route and add a little extra at the end for take home and doggie bags. so 30 x .25 = 7.5 lbs cooked weight, with pork it usually yields 50 to 60 percent cooked weight so I would make at least 16lbs uncooked to get what you need.
Doggie water taxi service http://www.zeemaps.com/k. rule of thumb pulled pork lbs per person. « on: July 23, 2010, 04:04:15 PM ». I've been volunteered to cook for the family reunion in sept and am going to do pulled pork as the primary food plus a lot of this and that items.
Best Answer: OK, you have some good answers so far, but let me help you out here. About 6 oz. per person should be plenty, so to be sure you will want eight pounds of COOKED pork. If you buy eight pounds of raw pork and cook it you will have some hungry people on your hands. I would go for 13-15 pounds, you may have some leftover but that is far better than running out. Source(s): Manager at a BBQ restaurant, do this kind of thing several times a week.
first off you definately need to get them to peg the amount of people for you. The basic formula is 1/4-1/3 lb. of meat per person, but that is finished weight. When you cook a pork butt you loosed approx. 40% of the uncooked weight, so if you start with a 10 lb. butt you only get approx. 6 lbs. of finished product. So for 100 people at 1/3 lb. each you need 30 lbs. of finished meat, so that means you have to start with 75 lbs. of raw meat.
Location: Nashville, Tn. easy calculation formula for pulled pork: 10 oz. pre-cooked weight per person X number of people, divided by 16 to get pounds of pre-cooked weight. For 30 people - 10 X 30 = 300 / 16 = 18.75 lbs. precooked weight. This will usually allow for plenty of cooking loss and provide a little cushion as necessary. Originally Posted by BigBobBQ. the usual approximate is 1/4lb per person I usually go that route and add a little extra at the end for take home and doggie bags. so 30 x .25 = 7.5 lbs cooked weight, with pork it usually yields 50 to 60 percent cooked weight so I would make at least 16lbs uncooked to get what you need.
Usually people figure 1/2 pound of cooked meat per person. This  would mean 50 pounds. However, you lose some during the cooking  process, so you should add an extra 25 poun … ds just to be sure.  Therefore, you should get 75 pounds of pork to feed 100 people. That said, I believe it is standard to figure 1/4 of a pound of meat per person. 70/4=17.5. So, you would need 17.5 pounds of meat, for 70 people. Keep in mind, that is pounds of meat, not the weight if it's on the bone.
Plan for more pulled pork if you're setting up a buffet meal. This is because you can't predict exactly how much meat each person will eat, according to Mindy Weiss and Lisbeth Levine, authors of The Wedding Book: The Big Book for Your Big Day.. monkeybusinessimages/iStock/Getty Images. Determine what type of meal you'll serve. If you are serving appetizers, figure on slightly less pulled pork, because people who eat pre-meal snacks tend to eat a bit less food for their main course.