Creatine kinase (CK) or Creatine phosphokinase (CPK) is an enzyme produced by the muscles. There are three types of CK produced by major muscle groups: the brain, the heart, and the skeletal muscle tissue. When muscle cells are injured or diseased, enzymes leak out of the cells and enter the bloodstream. 
An elevated level of creatine kinase is seen in heart attacks, when the heart muscle is damaged, or in conditions that produce damage to the skeletal muscles or brain. There are three different forms of creatine kinase that can be measured: CK-MM (located in the skeletal muscles and heart), CK-MB (mainly located in the heart), and CK-BB (located in the brain). An elevated level of creatine kinase, specifically CK-MB, occurs within hours of a heart attack as the heart muscle cells die.
Creatine kinase (CK) — also known as creatine phosphokinase (CPK) or phospho-creatine kinase — is an enzyme (EC 2.7.3.2) expressed by various tissues and cell types. CK catalyses the conversion of creatine and utilizes adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to create phosphocreatine (PCr) and adenosine diphosphate (ADP). Thus creatine kinase is an important enzyme in such tissues. Clinically, creatine kinase is assayed in blood tests as a marker of damage of CK-rich tissue such as in myocardial infarction (heart attack), rhabdomyolysis (severe muscle breakdown), muscular dystrophy, the autoimmune myositides and in acute renal failure.
This test measures the amount of an enzyme called creatine kinase (CK) in your blood. CK is a type of protein. The muscle cells in your body need CK to function. Levels of CK can rise after a heart attack, skeletal muscle injury, strenuous exercise, or drinking too much alcohol, and from taking certain medicines or supplements. If this test shows that your CK levels are high, you may have muscle or heart damage
Creatine kinase or creatine phosphokinase is an enzyme chiefly found in the brain, skeletal muscles, and heart. There are three different forms of creatine kinase that can be measured: CK-MM (located in the skeletal muscles and heart), CK-MB (mainly located in the heart), and CK-BB (located in the brain). An elevated level of creatine kinase, specifically CK-MB, occurs within hours of a heart attack as the heart muscle cells die.
Creatine kinase is often incorrectly referred to as creatinine kinase. There are three different forms of creatine kinase that can be measured: CK-MM (located in the skeletal muscles and heart), CK-MB (mainly located in the heart), and CK-BB (located in the brain). An elevated level of creatine kinase, specifically CK-MB, occurs within hours of a heart attack as the heart muscle cells die.
Photo Credit Thinkstock Images/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Creatine kinase is also known as creatine phosphokinase or phosphocreatine kinase. An enzyme involved in the synthesis and use of energy-providing molecules, it's predominantly found in the cells of the heart, skeletal muscles and brain. 
Creatine kinase, more commonly known as CK, is an enzyme that is present in all muscle tissue of the body including the heart and the brain. The normal creatine kinase levels in a man are between 38 and 174 units/L; while a woman's creatine kinase levels range from between 96 to 140 units/L. Creatine kinase is an enzyme present in all muscles in the human body including the heart and the brain. Normal creatine kinase levels between men and women differ primarily because of the fact that there is greater muscle mass in the male body than there is in the female one.
The creatine phosphokinase test measures the amount of creatine phosphokinase (CPK) present in the blood. The test is also known as creatine kinase, CPK test, and CK test. Creatine phosphokinase is a specific enzyme found primarily in the heart, skeletal muscle, and brain. The creatine phosphokinase test is performed to assess damage to tissue in the brain, muscle tissue, or heart.