An oxtail is exactly what it sounds like: the tail of an ox. They are officially classified as offal, along with an assortment of organ meats, and like other offal, it has a long and illustrious culinary history. I use a Dutch oven to cook my stew in. Heat the olive oil until hot. Take each oxtail and brown them in the olive oil. As they are done, transfer them in a bowl. Add the onion and garlic to the pan (keep your grease). Cook that until your onion is tender. Stir in the carrots, tomatoes, and all of your spices. Add the browned oxtail back in
Season and brown the oxtails. Sprinkle the oxtails with enough salt to season them and coat the slices in flour. Add them to the skillet and cook for 5 to 10 minutes or until evenly browned on all sides. 1  This step could be skipped, but browning the meat beforehand adds a significant amount of flavor to the final dish. Stew the oxtails for 2 1/2 to 3 hours. Bring the liquid to a boil over medium-high to high heat. After it begins to boil, stir it, cover the pot, and reduce the heat to medium. Let it simmer
Print. Originally, oxtail referred to the skinned tail of an ox, but over time the definition has changed and is now used to reference the tail meat of beef or veal. 
Trim oxtails and pat dry. Season oxtails with salt and pepper. In a deep heavy ovenproof kettle just large enough to hold oxtails in one layer heat 1 tablespoon butter over moderately high heat until foam subsides and brown half of oxtails on all sides, transferring to a bowl. Arrange oxtails over vegetables and add reduced wine, herbs, and enough broth to just cover oxtails. Bring liquid to a boil and braise oxtails, covered, in middle of oven 3 to 3 1/2 hours, or until meat is very tender but not falling off the bone.
Oxtail (occasionally spelled ox tail or ox-tail) is the culinary name for the tail of cattle. Formerly, it referred only to the tail of an ox or steer, a castrated male. An oxtail typically weighs 2 to 4 lbs. (1–1.8 kg) and is skinned and cut into short lengths for sale. Oxtail is a bony, gelatin-rich meat, which is usually slow-cooked as a stew or braised. It is a traditional stock base for a soup. Although traditional preparations often involve hours of slow cooking, modern methods usually take a shortcut by utilizing a pressure cooker. Oxtail is the main ingredient of the Italian dish coda alla vaccinara. It is a popular flavour for powder, instant and premade canned soups in the United Kingdom and Ireland.
Oxtail Recipes-How to cook oxtail recipes. Oxtails are actually the tail of the cow and make wonderful soups and stews. If you have difficulty finding oxtails in your locale, you can substitute meaty veal or beef neck, short rib, shank or other various soup bones, but don't expect quite as robust a flavor. Try these oxtail recipes. 
Oxtail is the tail of a cow. In olden days, it came from the tail of an ox, but now it comes from the tail of a cow of either sex. The tail is skinned and cut into sections; each section has a tailbone with some marrow in the center, and a bony portion of meat surrounding the tail. 
1 Toss the oxtail with the onion, green onion, garlic, ginger, chile pepper, soy sauce, thyme, salt, and pepper. 2  Heat the vegetable oil in a large skillet over medium-high heat. 3  Brown the oxtail in the skillet until browned all over, about 10 minutes. 4  Place into a pressure cooker, and pour in 1 1/2 cup water. 1 Brown the oxtail in the skillet until browned all over, about 10 minutes. 2  Place into a pressure cooker, and pour in 1 1/2 cup water. 3  Cook at pressure for 25 minutes, then remove from heat, and remove the lid according to manufacturer's directions.