Video of venipuncture (blood draw or collection) using the BD Vacutainer product. In medicine, venipuncture, venopuncture or venepuncture is the process of obtaining intravenous access for the purpose of intravenous therapy or for blood sampling of venous blood. This vein lies close to the surface of the skin, and there is not a large nerve supply. Minute quantities of blood may be taken by fingersticks sampling and collected from infants by means of a heel stick or from scalp veins with a winged infusion needle.
Top 10 facts about the world. Venipuncture is the method by which blood is drawn in most cases, and it may also be called phlebotomy or a blood draw. It refers to using a needle to pierce the skin and to access a vein so that a small amount of blood can be removed for various studies. Venipuncture is the puncture of a vein through needles to collect blood, which is immediately drained into special vials or containers. Phlebotomists must be skilled at performing venipunctures while also taking precautions to avoid infection. Blood samples that have been taken through venipuncture are stored in vial
While venipuncture can refer to a variety of procedures, including the insertion of IV tubes into a vein for the direct application of medicine to the blood stream, in phlebotomy venipuncture refers primarily to using a needle to create a blood evacuation point. As a phlebotomist, you will hear the term venipuncture everywhere, from the employment application all the way to the lab. It's a complex word for a complex procedure with a very simple definition: the puncturing of a vein to provide medical access.
Drawing Blood. To draw blood during a routine venipuncture, your health care provider will attach a hollow needle to a syringe, vacuum tube or vial, then gently insert the needle through the skin and into the center of the vein. Blood drawn from your vein will flow through the needle into the attached receptacle. Considerations. As an alternative to venipuncture, for some tests you may have a small blood sample drawn from your finger by a method called a fingerstick. Similarly, If your infant or young child needs to provide a blood sample, his doctor might use a device called a lancet to withdraw blood directly from the skin.
Venipuncture or phlebotomy is the puncture of a vein with a needle or an IV catheterto withdraw blood. Venipuncture is the most common method used to obtain blood samples for blood or serum lab procedures, and is sometimes referred to as a “blood draw.”. 
Phlebotomy (from the Greek words phlebo- , meaning pertaining to a blood vessel, and-tomy, meaning to make an incision) is the process of making an incision in a vein with a needle. Phlebotomists are people trained to draw blood from a patient for clinical or medical testing, transfusions, donations, or research. Phlebotomists collect blood primarily by performing venipunctures, (or, for collection of minute quantities of blood, fingersticks).