Modular Homeowners estimates that the average cost per square foot of a completed home to be built – not including the cost of land (including taxes or fees), the setup of utilities, or exterior touches (driveways, landscaping, and porches) – is $110. 
The general Ballpark price for a modular home is about $58-$70 per square foot for our models with our standard, high quality specifications. Larger colonial homes tend to be on the lower end of this range, with ranch and cape styles being towards the higher end. 
A “modular home price per square foot” is always misleading in part because the cost to build a home varies considerably depending on the design. For example, one-story homes are usually more expensive per square foot than two-story homes, if you keep everything else the same. The additional on-site construction will cost more per square foot than the part built at the factory. You might ask for a modular home price per square foot for a given style of house. But there are many types of each style of home. Compare a typical one-story ranch with a straight roof line to a large contemporary one-story with multiple rooflines and attic storag
Total Fees = $1,982.06. All-In Cost – $211,638. The final cost of my new modular home comes to $211,638. That comes out to just around $118.90 per square foot of living space and includes a two-car garage, a beautiful porch, a full basement, three bedrooms, two bathrooms, a modern kitchen, and gorgeous hardwood floors. by JElitzer.
1 An upscale 3,200-square-foot modular home delivered in eight pieces in Maryland had a base price of $300,000 but the extras, including a basement, septic fields, porches, a driveway, permits and other charges, bumped the total to about $560,000. 
That is probably not the answer you are looking for but it is the most accurate. You should expect to pay about $90-$150 per square foot for a finished standard modular home. That means you can find quality modular homes for between $100,000 and $300,000. You may come across price quotes for $40-$80 per square foot. Those price quotes are typically not for a finished home. Some homebuyers spend over $100,000 to finish their modular home. You may also come across modular home prices for $150-$200 per square foot. 
You can add $10 to $100 per square foot to a home by upgrading from the fewest and least expensive features to a large number of expensive ones. For example, stained cedar siding costs much more than vinyl siding. Some imported tile floors are substantially more expensive than carpet. The additional on-site construction will cost more per square foot than the part built at the factory. You might ask for a modular home price per square foot for a given style of house. But there are many types of each style of home. Compare a typical one-story ranch with a straight roof line to a large contemporary one-story with multiple rooflines and attic storage
You can find manufactured homes asa low as $59 a square foot and as high as $95 a square foot if they are located on the golf course. I would say, however, that the average is $75 to $80 a square foot. You can get some really good deals from time to time at around $70 a square foot. I ran into one yesterday that was 1344 square feet living area and it was priced at $89,900. This was a great price on this hom
When asking how much a modular home will cost to build, many different sources will give you many different answers. Some companies will tell you that they can build you a home for as low as $35 per square foot, but what they are quoting you is only the base price. When talking about the cost of a modular home there are a few different terms used to distinguish which price you’re referring to. Average Price: $60 per sq. ft. A manufacturer may say something like “You’re looking at around $200,000 to have the home built and set up.” There are a few half-truths in that claim. First, this price may or may not include the cost of delivering the modules to your build site.