Diabetes mellitus type 2 (formerly noninsulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) or adult-onset diabetes) is a metabolic disorder that is characterized by hyperglycemia (high blood sugar) in the context of insulin resistance and relative lack of insulin. 
Both low blood sugar (hypoglycemia) and high blood sugar (hyperglycemia) are of concern for patients who take insulin. It is important, therefore, to carefully monitor blood glucose levels. In general, patients with type 1 diabetes need to take readings four or more times a day. Insulin is essential for strict control of blood glucose levels in type 1 diabetes. Tight blood glucose control is the best way to prevent major complications in type 1 diabetes, including those that affect the kidneys, eyes, nerve pathways, and blood vessels.
Both type 1 and type 2 diabetes share one central feature: elevated blood sugar (glucose) levels due to absolute or relative insufficiencies of insulin, a hormone produced by the pancreas. Insulin is a key regulator of the body's metabolism. 1 This can lead to coronary artery disease, heart attack, or stroke. 2  In type 1 diabetes, high blood pressure (hypertension) usually develops if the kidneys become damaged. 3  High blood pressure is another major cause of heart attack, stroke, and heart failure. 4  Children with diabetes are also at risk for hypertension.
Insulin is essential for control of blood glucose levels in type 1 diabetes. Good blood glucose control is the best way to prevent major complications in type 1 diabetes, including those that affect the kidneys, eyes, nerve pathways, and blood vessels. 1 This can lead to coronary artery disease, heart attack, or stroke. 2  In type 1 diabetes, high blood pressure (hypertension) usually develops if the kidneys become damaged. 3  High blood pressure is another major cause of heart attack, stroke, and heart failure. 4  Children with diabetes are also at risk for hypertension.
Unfortunately, undiagnosed or prolonged high blood sugar levels can result in damage to organ systems in the body over time. People with type I diabetes have a high risk of vision problems, heart disease, stroke, kidney failure, gum disease, tooth loss, and nerve damage (especially in the hands and feet). 
Diabetes (Diabetes Mellitus). A disease in which the body does not control the amount of glucose (a type of sugar) in the blood and the kidneys make a large amount of urine. This disease occurs when the body does not make enough insulin or does not use it the way it should. PubMed Health Glossary. Higher than normal amount of glucose (a type of sugar) in the blood. Hyperglycemia can be a sign of diabetes or other conditions. Also called high blood sugar. Hypoglycemia. Also called low blood glucose, a condition that occurs when one's blood glucose is lower than normal, usually below 70 mg/dL.
Both type 1 and type 2 diabetes share one central feature: elevated blood sugar (glucose) levels due to absolute or relative insufficiencies of insulin, a hormone produced by the pancreas. Insulin is a key regulator of the body's metabolism. Insulin is essential for strict control of blood glucose levels in type 1 diabetes. Tight blood glucose control is the best way to prevent major complications in type 1 diabetes, including those that affect the kidneys, eyes, nerve pathways, and blood vessels.
1 Approximately one-third are unaware of their disease. 2  Each year, nearly one million American adults are diagnosed with diabetes. 3  Total cost of diabetes in the United States is estimated at more than $98 billion annually. 4  HbA1c measures blood glucose control in type 1 and type 2 diabetics. Each year, nearly one million American adults are diagnosed with diabetes.Total cost of diabetes in the United States is estimated at more than $98 billion annually. HbA1c measures blood glucose control in type 1 and type 2 diabetics.