There are two types of vaccines available, viral meningitis and bacterial meningitis. The meningitis vaccine, Haemophilus influenzae type B (Hib) is administered to children under 5 years of age. There are usually 3 to 4 doses given at 2 months, 4 months, 6 months, and 12 months of age. This vaccine is known to provide immunity against meningitis infection for at least 15 years. There are two types of vaccines against Neisseria meningitidis, the bacteria that causes meningococcal meningitis. The first one begin meningococcal polysaccharide vaccine (MPSV4), the only vaccine that can be administered to people over 55 years of age.
Immunity after the MenACWY vaccine does not last as long in children under 5 years old. For babies under 1 year of age, two doses one month apart are needed for protection, but older children and adults should receive a single dose. 
When quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccine was first recommended for preteens and teens in 2005, the expectation was that protection would last for 10 years; however, currently available data suggest protection declines in most teens within 5 years. The minimum interval between doses is 8 weeks. However, teens who receive their first dose of quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccine at or after age 16 do not need a booster dose.
All 11–12 year olds should be vaccinated with a quadrivalent (protects against serogroups A, C, W, and Y) meningococcal conjugate vaccine (Menactra® or Menveo®). A booster dose is recommended at age 16 years. For teens who receive the first dose at age 13 through 15 years, a booster dose should be administered, preferably at age 16 through 18 years, before the period of increased risk. The minimum interval between doses is 8 weeks. However, teens who receive their first dose of quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccine at or after age 16 do not need a booster dose.
Menactra vaccine is given to people 9 months through 55 years of age to help prevent meningococcal disease (including meningitis) caused by certain strains of meningococcal bacteria. Menactra vaccine is not indicated for the prevention of meningitis caused by meningococcal strains not contained in the vaccine. 
Teens age 16 through 18 years can get the booster dose at any time. The minimum interval between doses is 8 weeks. However, teens who receive their first dose of quadrivalent meningococcal conjugate vaccine at or after age 16 do not need a booster dose.
The CDC recommends the MCV4 vaccination (licensed in 2005) for use in children and teenagers between the ages of 11 and 18 years, as well as at-risk individuals between the ages of 2 and 55 years. MPSV4 is the only meningococcal vaccination that can be used for people over the age of 55 years. The Hib vaccination provides protection against meningitis caused by Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib), an infection most common in children under the age of 5 years. This vaccine is usually administered in three or four doses during the first year of your child's life (2 months, 4 months, 6 months and 12 months)
This is beingfurther investigated by health officials.3.How effective is this vaccine?Both meningococcal vaccines are 85% to100% effective in preventing infection from fourtypes of meningococcal disease (A, C, Y, and W-135). Menomune is not effective inchildren younger than two years of age. Safety and effectiveness of Menactra has not yetbeen established for those outside the age range of 11 to 55 years old. MCV4 is thepreferred vaccine for people 11 to 55 years old, but MPSV4 can be used if MCV4 is notavailable. MPSV4 should be used for children 2 to 10 years old and in adults older than 55who are at risk.4. www.vaccines.mil-Page 5 of 7 - 27 Mar 06. 
The Facts. There are two main types of meningitis: viral meningitis and bacterial meningitis. Most cases of meningitis arise from a viral infection and are usually mild, typically having flu-like symptoms that resolve within two weeks with rest and fluids. The Hib vaccination provides protection against meningitis caused by Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib), an infection most common in children under the age of 5 years. This vaccine is usually administered in three or four doses during the first year of your child's life (2 months, 4 months, 6 months and 12 months)