Hantavirus Pulmonary Syndrome (HPS) is a severe illness caused from exposure to the droppings or urine of deer mice that carry the virus. About 1- 5 hantavirus cases are reported each year in Washington State and about one third of the cases have been fatal. 
Hantavirus is named for the Hantan River area in South Korea where an early outbreak was observed. The virus was isolated in the late 1970s by Karl M. Johnson and Ho-Wang Lee. Hantaviruses are single-stranded, enveloped, negative sense RNA viruses in the Bunyaviridae family. They normally infect rodents and do not cause disease in these hosts. Humans may become infected with hantaviruses through contact with rodent urine, saliva, or feces.
Hantavirus Pulmonary Syndrome (HPS). Severe HPS. Image courtesy D. Loren Ketai, M.D. Hantavirus Pulmonary Syndrome (HPS) is a severe, sometimes fatal, respiratory disease in humans caused by infection with a hantavirus. Anyone who comes into contact with rodents that carry hantavirus is at risk of HPS. Rodent infestation in and around the home remains the primary risk for hantavirus exposure. Even healthy individuals are at risk for HPS infection if exposed to the virus. In fact, in a study of health care workers who were exposed to either patients or specimens infected with related types of hantaviruses (which cause a different disease in humans), none of the workers showed evidence of infection or illness. Hantavirus Pulmonary Syndrome (HPS) Topics.
Hantavirus is a virus that is found in the urine, saliva, or droppings of infected deer mice and some other wild rodents (cotton rats, rice rats in the southeastern Unites States and the white-footed mouse and the red-backed vole). It causes a rare but serious lung disease called Hantavirus pulmonary syndrome (HPS). 
The droppings, urine, saliva, and blood of infected animals are chock-full of virus particles. Deer mice carry the Sin Nombre strain of hantavirus. Cotton rats and rice rats carry hantavirus in the Southeast, while white-footed mice carry hantavirus in the Northeast. Although it's possible to get hantavirus infection from a mouse or rat bite, such infections are rare. 
The viral cause of the disease was found only weeks later and was called the Sin Nombre virus (SNV, in Spanish,  virus sin nombre , for nameless virus). The host was first identified as the deer mouse (Peromyscus maniculatus) by Terry Yates, a professor at the University of New Mexico. Hantaviruses are single-stranded, enveloped, negative sense RNA viruses in the Bunyaviridae family. They normally infect rodents and do not cause disease in these hosts. Humans may become infected with hantaviruses through contact with rodent urine, saliva, or feces.
Hantaviruses are a group of viruses that are carried by rodents. One of them, Sin Nombre virus, is found in deer mice in North America. Sin Nombre virus is the cause of Hantavirus Pulmonary Syndrome (HPS) in people. In Washington, about 14% of over 1,100 tested deer mice have been infected with Sin Nombre virus. Since infected deer mice live throughout the state, human cases of hantavirus pulmonary syndrome can occur in any part of Washington. Typically one to five cases are reported each year.
It is an often fatal pulmonary disease. In the United States, the causative agent is the Sin Nombre virus carried by deer mice. Prodromal symptoms include flu-like symptoms such as fever, cough, myalgia, headache, and lethargy. Hantaviruses are single-stranded, enveloped, negative sense RNA viruses in the Bunyaviridae family. They normally infect rodents and do not cause disease in these hosts. Humans may become infected with hantaviruses through contact with rodent urine, saliva, or feces.
1 Description: A viral disease that may be contracted through direct contact with, or inhalation of, aerosolized infected rodent urine, saliva, or droppings. 2  Cause: Disease caused by a virus found in the saliva, urine and droppings of some species of wild rodents, especially deer mice. 3  Incubation: period 1 to 5 weeks. 1 Cause: Disease caused by a virus found in the saliva, urine and droppings of some species of wild rodents, especially deer mice. 2  Incubation: period 1 to 5 weeks. 3  Symptoms: Fever, severe muscle aches, fatigue. 4  After a few days, difficulty breathing, dizziness, chills, vomiting, diarrhea and stomach pain.