There are 3 basic states of matter. These are solid, liquid and gas. The melting point is the temperature at which matter changes completely from solid to liquid, thereby melt … ing. The boiling point is the point at which matter changes completely from liquid to gas, thereby evaporating. Nitrogen melts at 63.15 K or -210.00 °C or -346.00 °F. Nitrogen boils at 77.36 K or -195.79 °C or -320.3342 °F.   Everything more you need can be found by using the l … ink below. It will take you to the Wikipedia post on nitrogen, and knowledge is provided there for free.
The melting point of a substance is the (thermal) point at which a solid substance gains enough thermal energy to become a liquid. The boiling point of a substance is the (t … hermal) point at which a liquid substance gains enough thermal energy to become a gas. The melting point is the temperature at which a substance changes states between liquid and solid-can also be known as the freezing point or point of solidification.
Nitrogen is a chemical element with symbol N and atomic number 7. It is the lightest pnictogen and at room temperature, it is a transparent, odorless diatomic gas. Nitrogen is a common element in the universe, estimated at about seventh in total abundance in the Milky Way and the Solar System. Nitrogen gas has become the inert gas of choice for inert gas asphyxiation, and is under consideration as a replacement for lethal injection in Oklahoma. Nitrogen is promoted by euthanasia advocate Philip Nitschke to end life in a peaceful, reliable [and] totally legal manner.
Liquid nitrogen is a diatomic liquid meaning the diatomic character of the covalent N bonding in N 2 gas is retained even after liquefaction. Liquid nitrogen is nitrogen in a liquid state at an extremely low temperature. It is produced industrially by fractional distillation of liquid air. Liquid nitrogen is a colorless clear liquid with density of 0.807 g/ml at its boiling point and a dielectric constant of 1.43
Nitrogen, as a gas is colorless, odorless, and generally considered an inert element. As a liquid (boiling point = minus 195.8°C), it is also colorless and odorless, and is similar in appearance to water. Nitrogen gas can be prepared by heating a water solution of ammonium nitrite (NH 4 NO 3). 
The melting point of a substance is the (thermal) point at which a solid substance gains enough thermal energy to become a liquid. The boiling point of a substance is the (t … hermal) point at which a liquid substance gains enough thermal energy to become a gas. Nitrogen melts at 63.15 K or -210.00 °C or -346.00 °F. Nitrogen boils at 77.36 K or -195.79 °C or -320.3342 °F.   Everything more you need can be found by using the l … ink below. It will take you to the Wikipedia post on nitrogen, and knowledge is provided there for free.
The boiling point is the temperature at which something changes states between gas and liquid-thus, whether or not something is a gas is irrelevant to the boiling point. The melting point is the temperature at which a substance changes states between liquid and solid-can also be known as the freezing point or point of solidification.
As an example, nitrogen is over 70% of our atmosphere, and is a gas at room temperature (usually around 20 degrees Celsius). However, its boiling point is -195 degrees Celsius. If you cool it all the way down to -195, it would condense-become a liquid. The melting point is the temperature at which a substance changes states between liquid and solid-can also be known as the freezing point or point of solidification.