Sclera. The sclera is the part of the eye commonly known as the “white.” It forms the supporting wall of the eyeball, and is continuous with the clear cornea. The sclera is covered by the conjunctiva, a clear mucus membrane that helps lubricate the eye. It is thickest in the area surrounding the optic nerve. 
The sclera is where the muscles that cause our eyes movements are connected and when we look left or right, up or down, it is the sclera that is moving. The sclera is perhaps the most unglamorous and underappreciated part of the eye. It does not widen and narrow like the pupil. It does not have the bright colors of the iris that can add so much to the physical appeal of a person. It is just a white mass that does not seem to do much and to which nothing seems to happen. Sclera is not a well known term. If soldiers were to be told not to shoot until they could see the sclera of their enemy's eyes, they would be at a loss and not know what to do.
The Sclera in the Human Eye is the white, tough wall of the eye. Few diseases affect this layer. It is covered by the Episclera. * * The Sclera is the membrane behind the Retina * *. It protects the eye from diseases and helps keep our eye healthy. thx! #D ._. The outside covering of the eye is a protective envelope of leathery connective tissue known as the sclera. This is the white coating on the outside of the eyeball, commonly k … nown as the white of the eye. It completely envelops the globe except at the front of the eye and maintains the shape of the globe.
In humans the whole sclera is white, contrasting with the coloured iris, but in other mammals the visible part of the sclera matches the colour of the iris, so the white part does not normally show. In the development of the embryo, the sclera is derived from the neural crest. The cornea, unlike the sclera, has five layers. The middle, thickest layer is also called the stroma. The sclera, like the cornea, contains a basal endothelium, above which there is the lamina fusca, containing a high count of pigment cells.
The sclera is the opaque white fibrous tissue of the eyeball itself. This fibrous tissue extends across the front of the eye, except where the cornea and iris are located in t … he center front of the eye, and it extends around to back of the eye where it meets the blood vessels and optic nerve. The outside covering of the eye is a protective envelope of leathery connective tissue known as the sclera. This is the white coating on the outside of the eyeball, commonly k … nown as the white of the eye. It completely envelops the globe except at the front of the eye and maintains the shape of the globe.
The sclera (from the Greek skleros, meaning hard), also known as the white of the eye, is the opaque, fibrous, protective, outer layer of the eye containing collagen and elastic fiber. The cornea, unlike the sclera, has five layers. The middle, thickest layer is also called the stroma. The sclera, like the cornea, contains a basal endothelium, above which there is the lamina fusca, containing a high count of pigment cells.
The white of our eyes, also known as the sclera, serves as a protective outer coat. It is a tough, leather-like tissue that surrounds the entire eye. The white sclera takes on a bluish tint when this normally thick tissue thins. The sclera becomes translucent, allowing the underlying tissue to show through. 
The Sclera is the posterior opaque white/off-white surface of the eye; this dense fibrous tissue envelops the entire posterior surface of the eye, excluding the continuous ant … eriorly of the cornea, iris, and pupil which is at its center. The outside covering of the eye is a protective envelope of leathery connective tissue known as the sclera. This is the white coating on the outside of the eyeball, commonly k … nown as the white of the eye. It completely envelops the globe except at the front of the eye and maintains the shape of the globe.
Scleritis is a serious inflammatory disease that affects the white outer coating of the eye, known as the sclera. The disease is often contracted through association with other diseases of the body, such as granulomatosis with polyangiitis or rheumatoid arthritis. 