Fragrant Tea Olive (Osmanthus fragrans): This is the most fragrant species of a group known as a whole for their superb scent. Fragrant tea olives can grow as tall as 20 to 30 feet near the coast, although they are usually smaller, particularly in the Piedmont. Height varies from 6 to 30 feet tall depending on species and cultivar. Width is similar to height. Smaller leafed cultivars of holly tea olive (Osmanthus heterophyllus), Fortune's tea olive (O. x fortunei) and Delavay tea olive (O. delavayi) make good hedges and can be maintained as low as 4 feet tall.
As one of the oldest and more important domesticated crops raised by humans, the olive tree has diverged naturally and with the assistance of man in to many varieties. Olive cultivars are first and foremost divided in to their location of origin; most names for cultivars come from place names. 1 Dritta is a variety of olive tree typical of the DOP area known as Aprutino Pescarese in the province of Pescara (Abruzzo). 2  Its olives yield an extra virgin olive oil featuring extraordinary chemical and organoleptic qualities.
The olive tree is a hardy and attractive ornamental plant. The olive tree (Olea europaea), with its glossy elongated leaves and rough, gnarled branches and trunk, makes for a hardy and attractive yard or patio foliage. Olive trees as part of a well-planned landscaping theme will give your home a natural Mediterranean feel. The olive tree has had its place in history for thousands of years. Several Biblical and ancient Greek references have been made to the illustrious tree; the olive branch is universally known as a symbol of peace and goodwill.
1 The olive grove of Amfissa, which consists of 1,200,000 olive trees is a part of a protected natural landscape. 2  Arbequina is a small, brown olive grown in Aragon and Catalonia, Spain, good for eating and for oil. 1 Dritta is a variety of olive tree typical of the DOP area known as Aprutino Pescarese in the province of Pescara (Abruzzo). 2  Its olives yield an extra virgin olive oil featuring extraordinary chemical and organoleptic qualities.
The olive's fruit, also called the olive, is of major agricultural importance in the Mediterranean region as the source of olive oil. The tree and its fruit give their name to the plant family, which also includes species such as lilacs, jasmine, Forsythia and the true ash trees (Fraxinus). Many olive trees in the groves around the Mediterranean are said to be hundreds of years old, while an age of 2,000 years is claimed for a number of individual trees; in some cases, this has been scientifically verified. Pliny the Elder told about a sacred Greek olive tree that was 1,600 years old.
Ornamental Features. Flowers of all tea olive species are intensely fragrant, often being compared to the scent of peaches, orange blossoms or jasmine. The most common flower color is creamy-white, but depending on cultivar, can vary to include pure white, pale to deep yellow, and orange. Height varies from 6 to 30 feet tall depending on species and cultivar. Width is similar to height. Smaller leafed cultivars of holly tea olive (Osmanthus heterophyllus), Fortune's tea olive (O. x fortunei) and Delavay tea olive (O. delavayi) make good hedges and can be maintained as low as 4 feet tall.
The immediate ancestry of the cultivated olive is unknown. It is assumed that Olea europaea may have arisen from O. chrysophylla in northern tropical Africa and that it was introduced into the countries of the Mediterranean Basin via Egypt and then Crete or the Levant, Syria, Tunisia and Asia Minor. Many olive trees in the groves around the Mediterranean are said to be hundreds of years old, while an age of 2,000 years is claimed for a number of individual trees; in some cases, this has been scientifically verified. Pliny the Elder told about a sacred Greek olive tree that was 1,600 years old.
The olive tree, Olea europaea, is an evergreen tree or shrub native to the Mediterranean, Asia and Africa. It is short and squat, and rarely exceeds 8–15 m (26–49 ft) in height. Many olive trees in the groves around the Mediterranean are said to be hundreds of years old, while an age of 2,000 years is claimed for a number of individual trees; in some cases, this has been scientifically verified. Pliny the Elder told about a sacred Greek olive tree that was 1,600 years old.