(fos'fō-glis'ĕr-āt kī'nās), An enzyme catalyzing the formation of 3-phospho-d -glyceroyl phosphate and ADP from 3-phospho-d -glycerate and ATP; this enzyme is a part of the glycolytic pathway; a deficiency of phosphoglycerate kinase (an X-linked disorder) results in impaired glycolysis in most cells. phos·pho·glyc·er·ate ki·nase. An enzyme catalyzing the formation of 3-phospho-d -glyceroyl phosphate and ADP from 3-phospho-d -glycerate and ATP; this enzyme is a part of the glycolytic pathway; a deficiency of phosphoglycerate kinase (an X-linked disorder) results in impaired glycolysis in most cells.
Step 7 of the glycolysis pathway is the conversion of 1,3-bisphosphoglycerate into 3-phosphoglycerate by the action of the enzyme phosphoglycerate kinase, resulting in the production of 2 ATP molecules (per glucose). The free energy change that you quote for the phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK) forward reaction is, of course, the standard free energy change (δG 0 ') for the overall reaction. The standard free energy change is defined for all reactants at a concentration of 1M
Description. Phosphoglycerate kinase (EC:2.7.2.3) (PGK) is an enzyme that catalyses the formation of ATP to ADP and vice versa. In the second step of the second phase in glycolysis, 1,3-diphosphoglycerate is converted to 3-phosphoglycerate, forming one molecule of ATP. Analysis of the reversible unfolding of yeast phosphoglycerate kinase leads to the conclusion that the two lobes are capable of folding independently, consistent with the presence of intermediates on the folding pathway with a single domain folded [ PMID: 2124145 ].
Description. The PGK1 gene encodes phosphoglycerate kinase-1, also known as ATP:3-phosphoglycerate 1-phosphotransferase (EC 2.7.2.3), which catalyzes the reversible conversion of 1,3-diphosphoglycerate to 3-phosphoglycerate during glycolysis, generating one molecule of ATP. Maeda, M., Yoshida, A. Molecular defect of a phosphoglycerate kinase variant (PGK-Matsue) associated with hemolytic anemia: leu-to-pro substitution caused by T/A-to-C/G transition in exon 3. Blood 77: 1348-1352, 1991.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Phosphoglycerate kinase (EC 2.7.2.3) (PGK) is an enzyme that catalyzes the reversible transfer of a phosphate group from 1,3-bisphosphoglycerate (1,3-BPG) to ADP producing 3-phosphoglycerate (3-PG) and ATP. Like all kinases it is a transferase. PGK is a major enzyme used in glycolysis, in the first ATP-generating step of the glycolytic pathway. In gluconeogenesis, the reaction catalyzed by PGK proceeds in the opposite direction, generating ADP and 1,3-BPG.
This enzyme is not to be confused with Bisphosphoglycerate mutase which catalyzes the conversion of 1,3-bisphosphoglycerate to 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate. Phosphoglycerate mutase (PGM) is an enzyme that catalyzes step 8 of glycolysis. When 3-phosphoglycerate enters the active site, the phosphohistidine complex is positioned as to facilitate transfer of phosphate from enzyme to substrate C-2 creating a 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate intermediate.