The Colorectal Neoplasia Interest Group specializes in the prevention, early detection, and diagnostic evaluation of colorectal cancer. For patients who have polyps or cancer, state-of-the-art endoscopic, operative, radiation, or medical treatment is coordinated with the appropriate consulting physicians and surgeons. Mayo Colorectal Cancer Prevention Registry. Our registry is the foundation of our multidisciplinary approach to colon cancer prevention in the Colorectal Neoplasia Clinic. The registry provides for identification of all persons at high risk for development of colorectal cancer based on personal and family history.
Risk factors for advanced colonic neoplasia and hyperplastic polyps in asymptomatic individuals. Lieberman DA(1), Prindiville S, Weiss DG, Willett W; VA Cooperative Study Group 380. Author information: (1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Portland, Ore 97207, USA. Few studies have evaluated risk factors for advanced colorectal neoplasia in asymptomatic individuals, compared risk factors between persons with and without polyps, or included most purported risk factors in a multivariate analysis.
The removal of precancerous polyps during colonoscopy inhibits their progression to cancer. Widely available screening tests such as the fecal occult blood test (FOBT), sigmoidoscopy, and colonoscopy are associated with a decrease in colorectal cancer mortality. Barium enema has the advantage of imaging the entire colon. However, recent evidence has suggested that it is inaccurate for detecting polyps and early cancers and suboptimal for colorectal cancer screening or surveillance.
Tumor is not synonymous with cancer. While cancer is by definition malignant, a tumor can be benign, precancerous, or malignant. The terms mass and nodule are often used synonymously with tumor. Generally speaking, however, the term tumor is used generically, without reference to the physical size of the lesion. A neoplasm can be benign, potentially malignant (pre-cancer), or malignant (cancer). 1  Benign tumors include uterine fibroids and melanocytic nevi (skin moles). 2  They are circumscribed and localized and do not transform into cancer. 3  Potentially-malignant neoplasms include carcinoma in situ
Colonic neoplasia in patients with nonspecific GI symptoms. Lieberman DA(1), de Garmo PL, Fleischer DE, Eisen GM, Chan BK, Helfand M. Author information: (1)Departments of Medicine, Oregon Health Sciences University, Portland 97207, USA. Comment in Gastrointest Endosc. 2000 Dec;52(6):820-1. 
Etymology: Gk, kolon, colon; L, rectus, straight. a malignant neoplastic disease of the large intestine, characterized by a change in bowel habits; the passing of blood (melena), which may be occult initially; and anemias. As the tumor progresses, symptoms develop that are related to the location of the tumor within the colon. When the tumor is in the right colon, the patient may complain of vague cramping or aching abdominal pain and report symptoms of anorexia, nausea, vomiting, weight loss, and tarry-colored stools. A partial or complete bowel obstruction is often the first manifestation of a tumor in the transverse colon. Tumors in the left colon can cause a feeling of fullness or cramping, constipation or altered bowel habits, acute abdominal pain, bowel obstruction, and bright red bloody stool
Colon neoplasm: tumors or cancer of the colon, which is part of the large intestine from the cecum to the rectum. Colon neoplasm: Colon neoplasm is listed as a type of (or associated with) the following medical conditions in our database: 1  Cancer. 2  Digestive system cancer. 3  Digestive Diseases. 4  Under-diagnosed conditions. 5  Silent conditions. 6  Bowel conditions. 7  Colon conditions. 8  Anorectal conditions