coarctation - (biology) a narrowing or constriction of a vessel or canal; especially a congenital narrowing of the aorta. narrowing-an instance of becoming narrow.biological science, biology-the science that studies living organisms. Translations.oun. 1. coarctation-tight or narrow compression. constriction. compression, contraction, condensation-the process or result of becoming smaller or pressed together; the contraction of a gas on cooling.
Coarctation of the aorta: Congenital constriction of the aorta that impedes the flow of blood below the level of the constriction and increases blood pressure above the constriction.
Definition of COARCTATION. : a stricture or narrowing especially of a canal or vessel (as the aorta). ADVERTISEMENT. 
Coarctation of the aorta, or aortic narrowing (abbreviated as CoA), is a congenital condition whereby the aorta narrows in the area where the ductus arteriosus (ligamentum arteriosum after regression) inserts.ketch showing heart with coarctation of the aorta. A: Coarctation (narrowing) of the aorta. 1:Inferior vena cava, 2:Right pulmonary veins, 3: Right pulmonary artery, 4:Superior vena cava, 5:Left pulmonary artery, 6:Left pulmonary veins, 7:Right ventricle, 8:Left ventricle, 9:Pulmonary artery, 10:Aorta.
Coarctation of the aorta is a common defect and occurs in 6-8% of patients with congenital heart disease. However, coarctation may be found more frequently in infants who present with symptoms prior to age one year.ilatation of the descending aorta immediately distal to the coarctation segment (poststenotic dilatation) is usually present. A jet lesion on the wall of the aorta distal to the coarctation site may also be present.
A high incidence of coarctation of the aorta in patients with congenital heart defects with decreased antegrade aortic flow in utero and virtual absence of CoA in patients with right heart obstructions lends credence to the hemodynamic theory.ilatation of the descending aorta immediately distal to the coarctation segment (poststenotic dilatation) is usually present. A jet lesion on the wall of the aorta distal to the coarctation site may also be present.
coarctation of the aorta, a congenital cardiac anomaly characterized by a localized narrowing of the aorta. It results in increased pressure proximal to the defect and decreased pressure distal to it.he most common site of coarctation is just beyond the origin of the left subclavian artery from the aorta, resulting in high blood pressure in the upper extremities and head and low blood pressure in the lower extremities. Symptoms are directly related to the pressure changes created by the constriction.
Definition. A defect that develops in the fetus in which there is a narrowing of the aortic arch, the main blood artery that delivers blood from the left ventricle of the heart to the rest of the body.he most common site of coarctation is just beyond the origin of the left subclavian artery from the aorta, resulting in high blood pressure in the upper extremities and head and low blood pressure in the lower extremities. Symptoms are directly related to the pressure changes created by the constriction.
Coarctation: A narrowing, stricture, or constriction of an artery. The sides of the vessel at the point of a coarctation appear to be pressed together.
2. coarctation - (biology) a narrowing or constriction of a vessel or canal; especially a congenital narrowing of the aorta. narrowing-an instance of becoming narrow. biological science, biology-the science that studies living organisms. Translations.oun. 1. coarctation-tight or narrow compression. constriction. compression, contraction, condensation-the process or result of becoming smaller or pressed together; the contraction of a gas on cooling.