International Travel. All children must present a valid U.S. passport for international air travel. This rule applies regardless of age, including infants and newborns. If you are applying for a passport for your child for the first time, allow ample time for the passport application process. Minors age 16 or 17 must appear in person at the time of application, and a parent or guardian must present some form of photo identification if the minor does not have one.
To apply for a new passport for your child, you and your child will need to appear in person at a passport acceptance agency. Click here to find the passport acceptance office nearest you. You can also call 1-800-275-8777 for the location nearest you. BOTH parents should appear in person. How to get a new passport for a child under age 16. All children, including infants, must have a passport for international travel by air. (Please note: passports issued to children under the age of 16 are valid for 5 years only and if your child has an expired passport, it cannot be renewed and a new passport must be secured.)
Even payment procedures can be complex. The total cost of a passport for children under age 16 is $82. But if you apply at a local passport acceptance facility, you'll need to divide the payment between the U.S. State Department ($52) and the acceptance facility ($30). Passports for children under age 16 are good for five years. The bad news is that you'll have to go through pretty much the same process when it's time to renew your child's passport — apply in person, prove your relationship to your child, and so on. So hold on to all your documentation for the next go-round!
For all overseas travel by air, children under the age of 16 must always have a U.S. passport which is valid for five years from the date of issue. Children under 16 can travel to Mexico, Canada, Bermuda, Bahamas and other Caribbean countries by boat, train, or car without a passport. Passports for minors must be applied for in person with the child and both parents present. If both parents cannot be present, a notarized parental consent form must be completed. Applications must be made at a passport agency or authorized passport acceptance facility.
The first thing you need to know is that your child must apply in person with both parents or guardians (see special cases below). There is no renewal of a passport by mail for minors so children under 16 whose current passports have expired or are near the expiration date must apply in person as if for the first time. 
Passports for children. All Canadian children, from newborns to age 16, require their own passport to travel. Children may only be issued a passport with a maximum validity of 5 years. A child’s passport remains valid until it reaches its expiry date, even after the child turns 16
Passport Application: Minors Ages 16 and 17. Minors age 16 or 17 must appear in person at the time of application, and a parent or guardian must present some form of photo identification if the minor does not have one. This passport will be required for all international air travel with parents
Types of Documents. All American passports are the same, but a child's passport isn't as valid for as long as an adult's is. If you're 16 or older when you apply for a passport, the document is valid for 10 years. If you're 15 or younger, it expires every five years. Applying. You must apply for a passport in person, though you can renew your passport by mail. If you're applying for a child younger than 16, the child and both legal guardians, if applicable, must appear together to apply.