1 On PCs, PCM and LPCM often refer to the format used in WAV (defined in 1991) and AIFF audio container formats (defined in 1988). 2  LPCM data may also be stored in other formats such as AU, raw audio format (header-less file) and various multimedia container formats. 1 LPCM has been defined as a part of the DVD (since 1995) and Blu-ray (since 2006) standards. 2  It is also defined as a part of various digital video and audio storage formats (e.g. DV since 1995, AVCHD since 2006).
Definition: PCM stands for Pulse Code Modulation. PCM technology is a means by which standard audio signals (which are represented by waveforms) are converted to digital audio signals (which are represented by 1's and 0's-much like computer data) with little, or no, compression. However, Dolby Digital and DTS encoded audio signals can be decoded into PCM signals and transferred via HDMI to a growing number of Home Theater Receivers for further processing and amplification. This is common in most Blu-ray and HD-DVD player applications. See also: Bitstream.
Once you do that, your receiver sound better PCM... Pulse-code modulation (PCM) is a digital representation of an analog signal where the magnitude of the signal is sampled regularly at uniform intervals, then quantized to a series of symbols in a numeric (usually binary) code. PCM has been used in digital telephone systems and 1980s-era electronic musical keyboards. PCM is what a cd-player can put out. It is un-compressed audio. It usually only comes out with an optical cable. AC3 is another name for Dolby Digital or Dolby 5.1 which is what all DVD players and HDTV programs output. It can come via an optical, coaxial-digital or a HDMI cable.
My understanding of the benefits of bitstream output compared to LPCM are clouded. I understand, according to Onkyo, that no current HD/Blu can output bitstream audio to the receiver through HDMI 1.3 for receiver-onboard decoding (this, according to their site, which might be dated...). Also, LPCM ouput should generally never downgrade audio from surround sound to stereo, unless of course that's what it's supposed to be doing. I think the misconception may stem from PCM as a recorded format on standard DVD (DVD-Video), which I think only supports 2.0 or 2.1 audio do to bitrate limitations.
Linear Pulse Code Modulated Audio (LPCM). Description. Pulse code modulation (PCM) with linear quantization. PCM is a digital representation of an analog signal where the magnitude of the signal is sampled regularly at uniform intervals, then quantized to a series of symbols in a digital (usually binary) code.
Hello St_Sgibbs, LPCM Simply means that the PS3 is decoding the audio and sending to the receiver for output, PCM 3/2.1 is 5.1 Surround sound. 3/4.1 is 7.1. If you would like the AV Receiver to perform the decoding try the following. Set Receiver to AFD.Auto. Set Receiver Audio out to Amp Only. I'm having a huge problem configuring my new receiver to work correctly with all my devices in surround. When I use the HD-DCS dynamic mode setting for Blu ray, set top box, and video game consoles, the receiver displays that its in Linear PCM 2 / 0 48 kHz or pcm 3/ 2.1 48 kHz.
· just now. Report Abuse. Bitstream output means that the signal is being outputted in its native format whereas with LPCM, the signal is being converted into LPCM. For example, if you are outputting a Dolby Digital signal and the digital output is set to bitstream, the signal will be Dolby Digital. Also, LPCM ouput should generally never downgrade audio from surround sound to stereo, unless of course that's what it's supposed to be doing. I think the misconception may stem from PCM as a recorded format on standard DVD (DVD-Video), which I think only supports 2.0 or 2.1 audio do to bitrate limitations.
The method of audio conversion is used on most digital audio formats, including CDs and DVD-Audio, and is also used to some extent in Blu-ray and HD-DVD applications. The PCM signal is converted back to analog form for distribution to loudspeakers. PCM, although digital in nature, should not be confused with a Dolby Digital or DTS Bitstream, which is compressed, and digitally encoded in a different manner than PCM. However, Dolby Digital and DTS encoded audio signals can be decoded into PCM signals and transferred via HDMI to a growing number of Home Theater Receivers for further processing and amplification. This is common in most Blu-ray and HD-DVD player applications. See also: Bitstream.
In a PCM stream, the amplitude of the analog signal is sampled regularly at uniform intervals, and each sample is quantized to the nearest value within a range of digital steps. Linear pulse-code modulation (LPCM) is a specific type of PCM where the quantization levels are linearly uniform. This is in contrast to PCM encodings where quantization levels vary as a function of amplitude (as with the A-law algorithm or the μ-law algorithm). 1 LPCM has been defined as a part of the DVD (since 1995) and Blu-ray (since 2006) standards. 2  It is also defined as a part of various digital video and audio storage formats (e.g. DV since 1995, AVCHD since 2006).