There are no evaluations for Ketamine-baclofen-cyclobenzaprine-diclofenac-gabapentin-tetracaine topical cream. 2 additional evaluations for Ketamine-baclofen-cyclobenzaprine-diclofenac-gabapentin-tetracaine topical cream are not currently shared publicly. Patients. Why Patients Stopped Taking Ketamine-baclofen-cyclobenzaprine-diclofenac-gabapentin-tetracaine topical cream (multiple reasons could be selected). See all 2 patients who’ve stopped taking
Cyclobenzaprine is a skeletal muscle relaxant and a central nervous system (CNS) depressant. Cyclobenzaprine acts on the locus coeruleus where it results in increased norepinephrine release, potentially through the gamma fibers which innervate and inhibit the alpha motor neurons in the ventral horn of the spinal cord. 
While tapering from valium, I want to make sure that if I take flexeril that I'm not adding to the benz's and that it is not the same type of drug that works on your gaba receptors, etc. Lately I've had a lot of pain and want to take a flexeril, but will not touch it if it will in any way affect my tapering of valium. From what I have read after a precursory Net search, it does not affect the GABA receptors. But this might be a good time to call a pharmacist just to find out for sure. Tell them that you're tapering your benzo because you're dependent and you're wondering how Flexeril would affect you in such a situation.
Read More. At our institution, we typically prescribe muscle relaxants like Flexeril (generic name Cyclobenzaprine) or a benzodiazepine like Valium (generic name Diazepam) to relieve this type of pain. Please be aware that medications of this nature have side effects, namely sedation and impairment of cognition. Diazepam and other benzodiazepines act by enhancing the effects of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the brain. GABA is a neurotransmitter (a chemical that nerve cells use to communicate with each other) that inhibits activity
flexeril. Once I sat up and took a gabapentin and 1/2 of a cyclobenzaprine, I began feeling better. It's now 5am and I've had to take another 1/2 cyclobenzaprine and a cramp tab (my husband gets these for me at work, they work sooo well). The side effects of neurontin or gabapentin are dizziness, drowsiness and peripheral edema. There may be mood swings, hyperactivity, hostility and concentration problems. It should be used cautiously in renal impairment due to possible accumulation and toxicity.
I’ve been trying to figure out if Flexeril has tolerance and dependence potential. I know it’s a tricyclic, but can’t determine if it works on GABA receptors. I have fibromyalgia and recently took 10 MG of Flexeril at bedtime to help with pain. It really helped my sleep. I’d like to find out if taking it 2 or 3 times a week would get me in trouble. I want to stay away from anything that acts like a Benzo even if it’s not classified as one.
Category: Prescription Drugs. This combination of medications is compounded into a cream to help relieve the pain associated with several medical conditions including arthritis, neuropathies, or dull aches and pains. See patients taking Baclofen-cyclobenzaprine-diclofenac-tetracaine cream. See patients taking .... 
Yes, I'm sure. Muscle relaxants like carisoprodol (Soma), cyclobenzaprine (Flexeril), and even diazepam (Valium), and clonazepam (Klonipin) are not narcotic agents, although the last two are benzodiazepines. Ask your doc about dantrolene (Dantrium). Diazepam and other benzodiazepines act by enhancing the effects of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the brain. GABA is a neurotransmitter (a chemical that nerve cells use to communicate with each other) that inhibits activity
Commonly reported side effects, conditions, and hospitalizations associated with Ketamine-baclofen-cyclobenzaprine-diclofenac-gabapentin-tetracaine topical cream. Patients. Why Patients Stopped Taking Ketamine-baclofen-cyclobenzaprine-diclofenac-gabapentin-tetracaine topical cream (multiple reasons could be selected). See all 2 patients who’ve stopped taking
This is a compounded topical medication that contains 6 ingredients in varying strengths: ketamine (10%), baclofen (2%), cyclobenzaprine (2%), diclofenac (3%), gabapentin (6%), tetracaine (2%). See patients taking Ketamine-baclofen-cyclobenzaprine-diclofenac-gabapentin-tetracaine topical cream. See patients taking Ketamine-baclofen-cyclobenzaprine-diclofenac-gabapentin-tetracaine topical cream. Patients. Why Patients Stopped Taking Ketamine-baclofen-cyclobenzaprine-diclofenac-gabapentin-tetracaine topical cream (multiple reasons could be selected). See all 2 patients who’ve stopped