The largest of these shoulder muscles is the deltoid. This large triangular muscle covers the glenohumeral joint and gives the shoulder its rounded-off shape. It stretches across the top of the shoulder from the clavicle in the front to the scapula in the back. 
The deltoid muscle is a large and powerful muscle of the shoulder joint. It distinctively shapes the surface anatomy of the shoulder. This muscle is supplied by the axillary nerve, a branch of the brachial plexus. The deltoid moves and stabilizes the shoulder joint. The movements of the different deltoid parts can interact both synergistically and antagonistically depending on the specific part and the position of the humerus. The deltoid is the most important abductor
The deltoid is attached by tendons to the skeleton at the clavicle (collarbone), scapula (shoulder blade), and humerus (upper arm bone). The deltoid is widest at the top of the shoulder and narrows to its apex as it travels down the arm. Contraction of the deltoid muscle results in a wide range of movement of the arm at the shoulder due to its location and the wide separation of its muscle fibers.... Click to read more below. The deltoid muscle is a rounded, triangular muscle located on the uppermost part of the arm and the top of the shoulder
In human anatomy, the deltoid muscle is the muscle forming the rounded contour of the shoulder. Anatomically, it appears to be made up of three distinct sets of fibers though electromyography suggests that it consists of at least seven groups that can be independently coordinated by the central nervous system. It is also known as the common shoulder muscle, particularly in other animals such as the domestic cat. Deltoid is also further shortened in slang as  delt . A study of 30 shoulders revealed an average mass of 191.9 grams (6.77 oz) (range 84 grams (3.0 oz)–366 grams (12.9 oz)) in humans.
The deltoid muscle is used in all side lifting movements and any movement of the humerus on the scapula. It is divided into three portions, anterior, middle and posterior, with the fibres having different roles due to their orientation. 
The deltoid muscle is involved in rotating the shoulder. The deltoid muscle is responsible for the shoulder's rounded shape. The military press strengthens the deltoids, or shoulders muscles, and other muscles of the upper body. Deltoid muscles contain three parts: posterior, anterior and lateral. View slideshow of images above.
The deltoid muscle is the muscle that gives the shoulder its rounded shape. Many mammals have this muscle, as the design is very efficient, and this muscle is responsible for the abduction of the shoulder and some of the rotation of the arm or limb. The deltoid muscle is responsible for the shoulder's rounded shape. The military press strengthens the deltoids, or shoulders muscles, and other muscles of the upper body. Deltoid muscles contain three parts: posterior, anterior and lateral. View slideshow of images above.
2. The middle division, also known as the medial deltoid, is located on the outside aspect of your shoulder. 3.The posterior division, also known as the posterior deltoid, is located on the backside of the shoulder joint. The Deltoid Muscles consist of three divisions highlighted in this picture. Typically, there is a combination of these divisions which work together to produce specific movements. 
Deltoid. The deltoid muscle is used in all side lifting movements and any movement of the humerus on the scapula. It is divided into two portions, anterior and posterior, with the fibres having different roles due to their orientation. Origin. 1  Outer 1/3 of the clavicle. 2  Acromion process. 3  Spine of the scapula.