Full Definition of ACUPUNCTURE. : an originally Chinese practice of inserting fine needles through the skin at specific points especially to cure disease or relieve pain (as in surgery). — acupuncture transitive verb. — acu·punc·tur·ist \-ˌpəŋ(k)-chə-rist\ noun. See acupuncture defined for English-language learners. Medica
Acupuncture (from Latin, acus (needle) and punctura (to puncture)) is a form of alternative medicine and a key component of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) involving thin needles inserted into the body at acupuncture points. Acupuncture is a form of alternative medicine. It is commonly used for pain relief, though it is also used to treat a wide range of conditions. The majority of people who seek out acupuncture do so for musculoskeletal problems, including low back pain, shoulder stiffness, and knee pain.
• ACUPUNCTURE (noun). The noun ACUPUNCTURE has 1 sense: 1. treatment of pain or disease by inserting the tips of needles at specific points on the skin. Familiarity information: ACUPUNCTURE used as a noun is very rare. 
Acupuncture is commonly used for pain relief, though it is also used for a wide range of other conditions. Clinical practice varies depending on the country. There is a diverse range of acupuncture approaches, involving different philosophies. The method used in TCM is likely the most widely adopted in the US. Acupuncture is a form of alternative medicine. It is commonly used for pain relief, though it is also used to treat a wide range of conditions. The majority of people who seek out acupuncture do so for musculoskeletal problems, including low back pain, shoulder stiffness, and knee pain.
Acupuncture is a form of Chinese medicine that has been practiced for centuries. It's based on the theory that energy, called chi (say chee), flows through and around your body along pathways called meridians. Acupuncturists believe that illness occurs when something blocks or unbalances your chi. People use acupuncture to relieve pain and treat certain health conditions. You can use it by itself or as part of a treatment program. Studies have found promising results for the use of acupuncture to treat nausea and vomiting related to pregnancy, chemotherapy, and postsurgery pain.
Acupuncture is a technique in which practitioners stimulate specific points on the body—most often by inserting thin needles through the skin. It is one of the practices used in. . See the NCCIH Web site for more information on traditional Chinese medicine. 
Acupuncture is a way to unblock or influence chi and help it flow back into balance. Acupuncture is done by putting very thin needles into your skin at certain points on your body. This is done to influence the energy flow. Sometimes heat, pressure, or mild electrical current is used along with needles. People use acupuncture to relieve pain and treat certain health conditions. You can use it by itself or as part of a treatment program. Studies have found promising results for the use of acupuncture to treat nausea and vomiting related to pregnancy, chemotherapy, and postsurgery pain.
View full size image. Acupuncture is a complementary medical practice that entails stimulating certain points on the body, most often with a needle penetrating the skin, to alleviate pain or to help treat various health conditions. 
Acupuncture is a form of Chinese medicine that has been practiced for centuries. It's based on the theory that energy, called chi (say chee), flows through and around your body along pathways called meridians. Acupuncturists believe that illness occurs when something blocks or unbalances your chi. Acupuncture is done by putting very thin needles into your skin at certain points on your body. This is done to influence the energy flow. Sometimes heat, pressure, or mild electrical current is used along with needles.
Acupuncture is the stimulation of specific acupuncture points along the skin of the body using thin needles. It can be associated with the application of heat, pressure, or laser light to these points. Classically, acupuncture is individualized and based on philosophy and intuition, and not on scientific research. Acupuncture is a form of alternative medicine. It is commonly used for pain relief, though it is also used to treat a wide range of conditions. The majority of people who seek out acupuncture do so for musculoskeletal problems, including low back pain, shoulder stiffness, and knee pain.