Most molybdenum is used to make alloys. It is used in steel alloys to increase strength, hardness, electrical conductivity and resistance to corrosion and wear. These ‘moly steel’ alloys are used in parts of engines.
In nickel-base alloys, it improves resistance to both corrosion and high-temperature creep deformation. Molybdenum-based alloys have a unique combination of properties, including high strength at elevated temperatures, high thermal and electrical conductivity, and low thermal expansion. Molybdenum metal and its alloys are the first choice in many demanding specialized applications.
Molybdenum is a chemical element with symbol Mo and atomic number 42. The name is from Neo-Latin molybdaenum, from Ancient Greek μόλυβδος molybdos, meaning lead, since its ores were confused with lead ores.
Molybdenum, element number 42 of the periodic table, lies in the table's second transition series, in Group 6A between chromium and tungsten. It has one of the highest melting temperatures of all the elements, yet unlike most other high-melting point metals, its density is only 25% greater than iron's. Its coefficient of thermal expansion is the lowest of the engineering materials, while its thermal conductivity exceeds all but a handful of elements.
A wide variety of materials can be engineered into thermal spray coatings to provide different degrees of electrical conductivity. Materials such as copper, aluminum, and molybdenum are the most commonly used. Materials such as iron-chrome-aluminum and molybdenum-disilicide are used for higher temperature applications.
In its pure form, molybdenum is a silvery-grey metal with a Mohs hardness of 5.5. It has a melting point of 2,623 °C (4,753 °F); of the naturally occurring elements, only tantalum, osmium, rhenium, tungsten, and carbon have higher melting points.
According to Lansdown’s observation 8 there is no clear agreement about electrical conductivity of MoS 2. However, the general view is that molybdenum disulfide could be classified as a “p” type semiconductor 9. There is a strong correlation between MoS 2 conductivity and temperature.