In sum, the CFO’s dual reporting responsibility to the CEO and the Board is recognized as a potential conflict. Complete sharing of all verbal and written reports allows the CFO to report to the Board without violating the CEO’s trust. Early on in the relationship, the CFO should tell the CEO that the Board is expecting the CFO to report directly on all financial and operational matters under her review so that the CEO is aware of the dual reporting aspect of the CFO’s position.
About The CFO Report. The CFO Report provides original real-time reporting, analysis and commentary on news and trends of critical importance to chief financial officers and other senior corporate finance executives: accounting, tax, regulation, capital markets, banking, management and strategy. The CFO Report is a core component of CFO Journal, which aggregates articles and data from The Wall Street Journal and other premium sources. Contact our editors with news items, comments and questions at: cfoeditors@dowjones.com. Learn about the CFO Journal editorial team.
A CFO's job can be broken down into three major components: 1. Controllership duties-These make up the backward looking part of a CFO's job. Controllership duties hold the CFO responsible for presenting and reporting accurate and timely historical financial information of the company he or she works for. In addition, the CFO oversees the capital structure of the company, determining the best mix of debt, equity and internal financing. Addressing the issues surrounding capital structure is one of the most important duties of a CFO. 3.
The chief financial officer (CFO) or chief financial and operating officer (CFOO) is a corporate officer primarily responsible for managing the financial risks of the corporation. This officer is also responsible for financial planning and record-keeping, as well as financial reporting to higher management. In some sectors the CFO is also responsible for analysis of data. The title is equivalent to finance director (FD), a common title in the United Kingdom. The CFO typically reports to the chief executive officer and to the board of directors, and may additionally sit on the board. The CFO reports directly to the president/chief executive officer (CEO) and directly assists the chief operating officer (COO) on all strategic and tactical matters as they relate to budget management, cost–benefit analysis, forecasting needs and the securing of new funding. Contents.
2. Treasury duties – The CFO is also responsible for the company's present financial condition, so he or she must decide how to invest the company's money, taking into consideration risk and liquidity. In addition, the CFO oversees the capital structure of the company, determining the best mix of debt, equity and internal financing. Addressing the issues surrounding capital structure is one of the most important duties of a CFO. 3.
40% of APAC CIOs report to the CEO, 14 % to the CFO, 16 % to the COO and a significant 30 % state that they report to “Other”. Other can of course be someone in another business unit or company. 
The study revealed that 42 percent of organizations reported that their IT department (and, presumably, the CIO) reports to the CFO, 33 percent to the CEO, 16 percent to the COO, 2 percent to a chief administrative officer, and 7 percent to other officers. This response occurred in most situations where IT reports to the CFO, but it also occurred in other reporting models. In another 34 percent, CFOs are among the key recommending/sponsoring executives. Thus, in 75 percent of firms, the CFO plays a vital role in determining IT investment.
Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Report. This section contains the annual CMS financial statements as required under the Chief Financial Officers (CFO) Act of 1990 (P.L. 101-576). The CFO Act marked a major effort to improve U.S. Government financial management and accountability.
The CFO should provide drafts of all reports to the Board to the CEO first. While the CEO can suggest improvements, the CEO must leave the final version to the discretion of the CFO, otherwise it is not her report. Early on in the relationship, the CFO should tell the CEO that the Board is expecting the CFO to report directly on all financial and operational matters under her review so that the CEO is aware of the dual reporting aspect of the CFO’s position.