With gloves on, pour equal amounts of Resin and Hardener into a mixing cup. You can refer to our resin coverage calculator to determine how much you'll need, but just for quick reference, the 32 oz Starter Kit covers 8 sq. ft., the 1 gal Studio kit covers 32 sq. ft. and the 2 gal Professional Kit covers 64 sq. ft. 
1 Epoxy resins, available as a two-part kit of resin and curing agent or hardener that is usually mixed in a 1:1 or 2:1 ratio (4:1 or higher ratios for many industrial applications). 2  Polyester resins, usually hardened by mixing with a liquid and highly toxic, high volatility catalyst (MEKP). 1 Most epoxies will be solid to the touch in 5 to 7 hours, but they require up to 48 hours for a complete cure. 2  Epoxy has poor UV resistance, and some can have poor water resistance as well. 3  Additives are required to the hardener to improve UV resistance to a level that is adequate for art applications.
The first time I saw a contemporary painting with epoxy resin, it took my breath away. In 2010 I decided to work with epoxy resin. I actually learned how to use it by watching you tube demonstrations. Epoxy resin is an art medium mixed with a hardener and poured onto a piece of art. Epoxy resin when wet is extremely toxic. At first when painting with it, I used no protection. During those two months I ended up covered in a rash.
Using Epoxy Resins: There is a trend in the art world to use two part epoxy resins in artwork. These coatings are known to be very appealing because of the uniform, clear glossy coating they create, however, the material has some drawbacks as well. I normally use an epoxy resin mix to create a thick coat on some portion of my acrylic painting to create a special gloss or glass effect.
Buy art resin at http://artresin.refersion.com/c/0077. See more of my work at http://bradscottvisuals.com. In this video I show you how to resin your artwork with artresin creating an amazing looking clear coat. Artresin is a clear epoxy resin used to cover paintings & artwork... How to artresin your artwork (epoxy resin clear coat). Testing the new artresin on a mounted photo.
Learning How to Use Resin. After reviewing those links, you can see resin epoxy is a very useful arts and crafts tool that goes beyond typical pendant and charm applications. If you want to get your feet wet using resin, I do recommend you tackle a simple jewelry-making project first. 
Mark Nelson shows how you can use Colores™ epoxy resin and any printed image to create custom gemstones and folk art for your jewelry. 
Art resin: coat your art with resin. A number of my paintings are done on surfboards and skateboards, and as a consequence I have learned how to laminate my art work with art resin and solve the most common issues one deals with when adding a thick, glossy and clear coat of resin to your art. 1 Most epoxies will be solid to the touch in 5 to 7 hours, but they require up to 48 hours for a complete cure. 2  Epoxy has poor UV resistance, and some can have poor water resistance as well. 3  Additives are required to the hardener to improve UV resistance to a level that is adequate for art applications.
A few things are important to know before using Epoxy resin, as they explain most of the issues artists can face when using them: 1  Epoxies are thermo-setting plastics-heat is key to proper curing of the resin and hardener mix. 2  Epoxy resin is combined with a hardener to form a third, solid plastic. 1 Most epoxies will be solid to the touch in 5 to 7 hours, but they require up to 48 hours for a complete cure. 2  Epoxy has poor UV resistance, and some can have poor water resistance as well. 3  Additives are required to the hardener to improve UV resistance to a level that is adequate for art applications.
Artist Dave Zak shows tips and tricks for using ArtResin epoxy resin to finish paintings and other artwork! NOTE: R D Burman, Lata Phoolon Ka Taaron Ka lyrics are property and copyright of its owners. Lyrics are provided for educational purposes only. **Always use caution and common sense when working with resin. 