An Essential Hormone. Testosterone, estrogen, cortisol, DHEA, and pregnenolone are members of a family of natural hormones that are essential for human survival. All of these hormones contain four carbon-ring structures attached to each other, and appear very similar. Pregnenolone also can be converted into the other hormones, which is why it is sometimes referred to as the mother of those hormones. Hormones released by the pituitary gland regulate these conversions. The body can change pregnenolone into DHEA or progesterone, depending on its needs at a given moment.
Good question. Because pregnenolone is the precursor of the more-familiar hormones like cortisol, estrogen, progesterone, testosterone, and DHEA, it seems to have been ignored and overlooked. But, I find the research on this mother hormone incredibly compelling. I find that pregnenolone can help. In the body, pregnenolone is made from cholesterol. In the laboratory it is derived from wild yam -- so it is not a steroid-based product. Perhaps this is why a growing number of health professionals are recommending it as a natural alternative to other types of hormone replacement.
At age 75, our bodies typically make 60% less pregnenolone than at age 35.*. As the precursor of all steroidal hormones— including cortisol, DHEA, estrogen, progesterone, and testosterone—pregnenolone provides the building blocks for the body to produce sufficient amounts of individual hormones. Benefits of Pregnenolone:*. 1  Buffers the effects of stress. 2  Helps cells neutralize toxins.
Pregnenolone is used in the body to make hormones including estrogen. Taking estrogen along with pregnenolone might cause too much estrogen to be in the body. Some estrogen pills include conjugated equine estrogens (Premarin), ethinyl estradiol, estradiol, and others. 1  Progestin interacts with PREGNENOLONE. 
(Click Benefits of Pregnenolone for more information on what it is used for, including additional uses of the supplement.). Pregnenolone is a hormone that is used by the body to make all other steroid hormones in the body, including (but not limited to) progesterone, cortisol, aldosterone, testosterone, and estrogen. The body makes it using cholesterol. 
Story at-a-glance 1  +. Pregnenolone is a steroidal hormone manufactured primarily in your adrenal glands from its precursor, cholesterol, and has a number of beneficial effects, including enhancing your memory and reducing stress-induced fatigue. Pregnenolone is a precursor hormone synthesized from cholesterol, principally in the adrenal glands, but also in the liver, skin, brain, testicles, ovaries, and retina of the eyes.
Pregnenolone. Decline of this hormone occurs after age 30. This hormone aids in cellular repair of the central nervous system and is the most potent memory enhancer of all the hormones. 
Presentation of Pregnenolone. Pregnenolone is a natural steroid hormone that is a precursor to testosterone and other hormones. Pregnenolone is found in the nervous system, adrenal glands, skin, eyes, brain, testicles in men, and ovaries in women.
By BioHealth Diagnostics Pregnenolone—The Basics Pregnenolone, like DHEA, is a steroidal hormone manufactured in the body. Pregnenolone is a precursor hormone synthesized from cholesterol, principally in the adrenal glands, but also in the liver, skin, brain, testicles, ovaries, and retina of the eyes. Steroids are a large family of structurally similar biochemicals that have sex-determining, anti-inflammatory, and growth-regulatory roles
Pregnenolone—The Basics. Pregnenolone, like DHEA, is a steroidal hormone manufactured in the body. Pregnenolone is a precursor hormone synthesized from cholesterol, principally in the adrenal glands, but also in the liver, skin, brain, testicles, ovaries, and retina of the eyes. Steroids are a large family of structurally similar biochemicals that have sex-determining, anti-inflammatory, and growth-regulatory roles