Some reserves are shared by multiple bands, whether as fishing camps or educational facilities such as Peckquaylis, a reserve on the Fraser River which is used by 21 Indian bands; it was formerly St. Mary's Indian Residential School and is an example of a reserve created in modern times. Examples include the Sturgeon Lake First Nation, which like many bands, has only one reserve, Sturgeon Lake Indian Reserve No. 101. Musqueam No. 2 and No. 4, and Sea Island Indian Reserve No. 3 are governed by the Musqueam Indian Band, one of many examples where a single government has more than one reserve.
1 Since the reserves didn't come from another bank, one could say they were created out of “thin air.”. 2  The initial expansion of deposits and reserves will lead to an expansion of 10 times $10 million because each dollar of reserves will support roughly 10 times that amount in deposits. 
According to the 2011 National Household Survey – which excludes data from a number of incompletely enumerated reserves or settlements – there were 360,620 people living on reserves in Canada. Of those, 324,780 claimed some form of Aboriginal identity, with 320,030 claiming First Nations identity. By and large, there are few reserves in the territories; rather there are Metis métis Or inuit settlements and. Communities The Indian act of 1876 codified the methods through Which indian status and reserves were governed by the federal. government
Reserves are governed by the Indian Act, and residence on a reserve is governed by band councils as well as the minister of Aboriginal Affairs and Northern Development. In 2011, 360,620 people lived on reserves in Canada, of which 324,780 claimed some form of Aboriginal identity. By and large, there are few reserves in the territories; rather there are Metis métis Or inuit settlements and. Communities The Indian act of 1876 codified the methods through Which indian status and reserves were governed by the federal. government
It was created on December 23, 1913, with the enactment of the Federal Reserve Act, largely in response to a series of financial panics, particularly a severe panic in 1907. Over time, the roles and responsibilities of the Federal Reserve System have expanded, and its structure has evolved. The Federal Reserve System (also known as the Federal Reserve, and informally as the Fed) is the central banking system of the United States.
It was created by the Congress to provide the nation with a safer, more flexible, and more stable monetary and financial system. The Federal Reserve was created on December 23, 1913, when President Woodrow Wilson signed the Federal Reserve Act into law. Today, the Federal Reserve's responsibilities fall into four general areas. The Federal Reserve System, often referred to as the Federal Reserve or simply the Fed, is the central bank of the United States.
A single band (First Nations government) may control one reserve or several, in addition some reserves are shared between multiple bands. In 2003 the Department of Indian Affairs stated there were 2,300 reserves in Canada, comprising 28,000 square kilometres (11,000 sq mi). According to Statistics Canada in 2011 there are more than 600 First Nations/Indian bands in Canada and 3,100 Indian reserves across Canada. Examples include the Sturgeon Lake First Nation, which like many bands, has only one reserve, Sturgeon Lake Indian Reserve No. 101. Musqueam No. 2 and No. 4, and Sea Island Indian Reserve No. 3 are governed by the Musqueam Indian Band, one of many examples where a single government has more than one reserve.
Reserves and traditional territory. A reserve is not to be confused with a First Nation s traditional territory. Although reserve borders were imposed on First Nations, many First Nations have continued hunting, gathering, and fishing in off-reserve locations that they have used for many generations. Precursors to the modern reserve system existed in Canada prior to Confederation and the Indian Act as products of the colonial drive to civilize Aboriginal peoples by introducing them to agriculture, Christianity and a sedentary way of life based on private property.
Some reserves were created in response to complaints by white residents who objected to Aboriginal people living in towns or in fringe camps on the edges of towns. 9 This was the case with Brungle Station, which was built between Tumut and Gundagai in 1887. Among the first reserves declared from this time were at Yass (1875); Bodalla (1877) and Picton (1878). 7 These were joined by many more in the decades following the first appointment of a ‘Protector of Aborigines’ in 1881, who was replaced by the APB two years later.