The Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is a core protocol of the Internet protocol suite. It originated in the initial network implementation in which it complemented the Internet Protocol (IP). Therefore, the entire suite is commonly referred to as TCP/IP. 
The idle hh: mm : ss keyword sets the idle timeout for all protocols between 0:5:0 and 1193:00:00. The default is 1:0:0. You can also set this value to 0, which means the connection never times out. For TCP traffic, the reset keyword sends a reset to TCP endpoints when the connection times out. The half-closed hh: mm : ss keyword sets the idle timeout between 0:5:0 and 1193:00:00. The default is 0:10:0. 
Description: This parameter controls the number of times TCP retransmits an individual data segment (non connect segment) before aborting the connection. The retransmission time-out is doubled with each successive retransmission on a connection. It is reset when responses resume. Change the following subkey in Windows 2003, Windows XP, and Windows 2000: Description: This parameter controls the initial retransmission time-out that is used by TCP on each new connection. It applies to the connection request (SYN) and to the first data segments that is sent on each connection.
Users should be aware that their firewall may enforce a default inactivity timeout on any TCP connection. This means that after a default amount of time (typically 5 minutes), the firewall will close the TCP connection that was opened up by FRP if there is no traffic over this link during this time. This type of firewall setup can be expected to interfere with FRP particularly when replicating large files
2.1. The keepalive concept is very simple: when you set up a TCP connection, you associate a set of timers. Some of these timers deal with the keepalive procedure. When the keepalive timer reaches zero, you send your peer a keepalive probe packet with no data in it and the ACK flag turned on. 
Often referred to as ports. The Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is one of the core protocols of the Internet protocol suite, often simply referred to as TCP/IP. Using TCP, applications on networked hosts can create connections to one another, over which they can exchange streams of data using Stream Sockets. Best Answer: TCP is a Transmission Control Protocol. Internet traffic in general is based on packets of information sent from one computer to another.
The retransmission timer is initialized to three seconds when a TCP connection is established. However, it is adjusted on the fly to match the characteristics of the connection by using Smoothed Round Trip Time (SRTT) calculations as described in RFC793. Change the following subkey in Windows 2003, Windows XP, and Windows 2000: Description: This parameter controls the initial retransmission time-out that is used by TCP on each new connection. It applies to the connection request (SYN) and to the first data segments that is sent on each connection.
vs. SecurActive Performance Vision. TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) is a standard that defines how to establish and maintain a network conversation via which application programs can exchange data. TCP works with the Internet Protocol (IP), which defines how computers send packet s of data to each other. Together, TCP and IP are the basic rules defining the Internet. TCP is defined by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) in the Request for Comment (RFC) standards document number 793. 