A mol is an expression of the molair weight of a molecule, derived from the weight of a hydrogen molecule, which is 1 mol. Hydrogen has a relative atomic mass of 1 g/ mol and oxygen has a relative atomic mass of 16 g/ mol. Water consists of one oxygen atom and two hydrogen atoms. This means that the mass of a water molecule is 1g + 1g + 16g = 18 g/ mol. When the number of moles of water is known, one can calculate how many grams of weight this is, by using the molar weight of water. Density of a substance means the weight in kilograms of a cubic metre of a substance. When two substances are mixed but do not dissolve in one another, the substance with the lowest density floats on the other substance. In this case that substance is ice, due to the decreased density of water.
1 Southern, or Antarctic, Ocean: The Southern Ocean was designated from parts of the Atlantic, Pacific and Indian Oceans in 2000 by the International Hydrographic Organization. 2  This is the fourth largest ocean, and surrounds Antarctica. 3  It is bounded to the north by parts of South America, Africa, and Australia. Because most of the Earth is covered by ocean. In fact, almost three-quarters (71%, or 140 million square miles) of the Earth is ocean. With such an enormous area, there's no argument that healthy oceans are vital to a healthy planet.
The ocean is not divided evenly between the Northern Hemisphere and Southern Hemispheres of the Earth. The Northern Hemisphere contains more land than ocean - 39% land versus the 19% land in the Southern Hemisphere. Because most of the Earth is covered by ocean. In fact, almost three-quarters (71%, or 140 million square miles) of the Earth is ocean. With such an enormous area, there's no argument that healthy oceans are vital to a healthy planet.
1 Atlantic Ocean: The Atlantic Ocean is smaller and shallower than the Pacific Ocean, and is bounded by North and South America to the west, Europe and Africa to the east, the Arctic Ocean to the north and the Southern Ocean to the south. 2  Indian Ocean: The Indian Ocean is the third-largest ocean. Because most of the Earth is covered by ocean. In fact, almost three-quarters (71%, or 140 million square miles) of the Earth is ocean. With such an enormous area, there's no argument that healthy oceans are vital to a healthy planet.
1 Salinity is approximately equal to the weight, in grams, of salt dissolved in 1000 g of seawater. 2  This would be the salt concentration in parts per thousand 3  (). Average ocean water has a salinity of 35.0. 4  This means that 1000 g of average seawater contains 965 g of water and 35 g of salts. It has roughly 2/3 the salt content of regular seawater. Ocean salinity (expressed in-per mil) is approximately equal to the weight, in grams, of salts dissolved in 1000g of seawater. This would be the salt concentration in parts-per-thousand (). Average ocean water has a salinity of 35g of dissolved
One of these atoms is called hydrogen and the other is called oxygen. As you probably know the air that we breathe also contains oxygen. One particle of water is called a molecule. When lots of water molecules melt together we can see the water and drink it or use it, for instance to flush a toilet. Density of a substance means the weight in kilograms of a cubic metre of a substance. When two substances are mixed but do not dissolve in one another, the substance with the lowest density floats on the other substance. In this case that substance is ice, due to the decreased density of water.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. It consists of magnesium bromide, potassium chloride, calcium chloride, sodium chloride, magnesium chloride and of course water. About 96.5% (by weight) of sea water is water (H2O). The remaining 3.5% is about 3.2% sodium chloride (NaCl) and 0.3% magnesium sulfate (MgSO4). Also present are small quantit … ies of calcium (Ca), potassium (K) and bicarbonate (HCO3), and very minuscule amounts of dozens of other compounds and elements.
Most of the ocean's plant life consists of microscopic algae called phytoplankton that float at the surface and through photosynthesis produce about half of the oxygen that humans and all other terrestrial creatures breathe. Seaweed and kelp are big algae easily visible to the naked eye. Nearly half of the ocean is more than 9,800 feet (3,000 meters) deep. The deepest reaches of the ocean are largely devoid of life, but biological hotspots appear around places like hydrothermal vents.
S, India. Unlike sound waves or ocean waves, radios waves do not travel in a material. Radio waves are a class of electromagnetic waves and consist of nothing more than electric and magnetic fields. Since they don't require any medium through which to travel, they can go right through empty space. That's why we're able to see the stars, after al