A simulated uranium fuel pellet is attached to this card. The quantity of energy that can be released from this amount of nuclear fuel is compared to three major energy sources: oil, coal, and natural gas. 
Nuclear power plants do not burn any fuel. Instead, they use uranium fuel, consisting of solid ceramic pellets, to produce electricity through a process called fission. Watch our interactive graphic on how nuclear fuel is produced, used and stored. Processing Uranium to Make Fuel. Before its use in a reactor, uranium must undergo four processing steps to convert it from an ore to solid ceramic fuel pellets. These processes are: mining and milling, conversion, enrichment and fabrication.
Nuclear power plants split uranium atoms inside a reactor in a process called fission. At a nuclear energy facility, the heat from fission is used to produce steam, which spins a turbine to generate electricity. A renewable energy source uses an essentially limitless supply of fuel, whether wind, the sun or water. Nuclear energy is often called a sustainable energy source, because there is enough uranium in the world to fuel reactors for 100 years or more.
Uranium hexafluoride contains two types of uranium, U-238 and U-235. The percentage of U-235, which is the type of uranium that fissions easily, is less than 1 percent. To make the uranium usable as a fuel, its U-235 content is increased to between 3 percent and 5 percent. Processing Uranium to Make Fuel. Before its use in a reactor, uranium must undergo four processing steps to convert it from an ore to solid ceramic fuel pellets. These processes are: mining and milling, conversion, enrichment and fabrication.
Used nuclear fuel is a complex mixture of the fission products, uranium, plutonium, and the transplutonium metals. In fuel which has been used at high temperature in power reactors it is common for the fuel to be heterogeneous; often the fuel will contain nanoparticles of platinum group metals such as palladium. In a fast neutron reactor, the minor actinides produced by neutron capture of uranium and plutonium can be used as fuel. Metal actinide fuel is typically an alloy of zirconium, uranium, plutonium, and minor actinides. It can be made inherently safe as thermal expansion of the metal alloy will increase neutron leakage.
A1. Abstract: A uranium oxide fuel pellet (10) comprises an inner region (14) and an outer region (12) about the inner region, the uranium oxide of at least a portion of said outer region being rich in niobia relative to the inner region. A fuel pellet according to any preceding claim wherein the uranium oxide in the inner region is seeded to produce a large grain size. 9. A fuel pellet according to any preceding claim wherein the said portion is substantially the entire outer region.
Nuclear fuel is made of solid pellets that contain enriched uranium. These small, ceramic-like pellets create a tremendous amount of energy when used in a nuclear power plant. For example, one pellet has an amount of energy equivalent to almost one ton of coal. The pellets are sealed in tubes of a strong corrosion-and heat-resistant metal alloy. To understand how nuclear fuel generates electricity, think about how other power plants work. When electricity is generated at coal-fired plants, coal is burned to produce heat to make steam. At nuclear power plants, fission within the fuel pellets creates the heat used to make steam to turn turbines.
Nuclear power plants use pellets to fuel the plants. A pellet contains approximately 3% U-235 that is encased in a ceramic matrix. Refueling the Reactor Core. Source: P. A. Scholle & D. S. Ulmer-Scholle, 1997, SEPM Photo CD-14, Environmental Sciences 5, SEPM, Tulsa, OK. Nuclear power generates electricity much like coal-or diesel-powered plants. What is different from the other two, is that nuclear doesn't produce greenhouse gases like the burning of fossil fuels. It does produce spent nuclear fuel that is radioactive, and this has disposal problems.
Nuclear fuel pellets are compounds consisting of center and outside shell where in most world's nuclear reactors, the center contains a brittle uranium blend, and the solid outside shell is made of a metallic alloy containing the element zirconium. Fukushima accident and the search for safer nuclear power plants. The working principle in each nuclear plant starts with fission. The typical core of a nuclear power plant uses the heat generated by fission of uranium and plutonium in fuel rods to heat and then pressurize water.
1. A uranium oxide fuel pellet comprising an inner region and an outer region about the inner region, wherein the uranium oxide of at least a portion of said outer region is rich in niobia relative to the inner region. 2. A fuel pellet according to any preceding claim wherein the uranium oxide in the inner region is seeded to produce a large grain size. 9. A fuel pellet according to any preceding claim wherein the said portion is substantially the entire outer region.