Nucleotides that form the strands of the DNA structure are complex molecules which consist of both a phosphate moiety and a nucleobase (adenine, guanine, cytosine or thymine) joined to a five-carbon sugar (deoxyribose). In RNA, the five-carbon sugar ribose replaces deoxyribose. The DNA structure consists of two chainlike molecules (polynucleotides) that twist around each other to form the classic double-helix. The cell s machinery forms polynucleotide chains by linking together four nucleotides.
DNA structure. DNA is made up of molecules called nucleotides. Each nucleotide contains a phosphate group, a sugar group and a nitrogen base. The four types of nitrogen bases are adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G) and cytosine (C). The order of these bases is what determines DNA's instructions, or genetic code. Deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA is a molecule that contains the instructions an organism needs to develop, live and reproduce. These instructions are found inside every cell, and are passed down from parents to their children.
Deoxyribonucleic acid (/diˌɒksiˌraɪbɵ.njuːˌkleɪ.ɨk ˈaesɪd/ ; ˈæSɪD) dna is a molecule that carries most of the genetic instructions used in the, development functioning and reproduction of all known living organisms and many. viruses 
Chemically, DNA is a long polymer of simple units called nucleotides, with a backbone made of sugars and phosphate groups joined by ester bonds. Attached to each sugar is one of four types of molecules called bases. It is the sequence of these four bases along the backbone that encodes information. The main role of DNA molecules is the long-term storage of information. DNA is often compared to a set of blueprints, since it contains the instructions needed to construct other components of cells, such as proteins and RNA molecules.
Answers. Best Answer: Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is a nucleic acid that contains the genetic instructions used in the development and functioning of all known living organisms. The main role of DNA molecules is the long-term storage of information. DNA is often compared to a set of blueprints, since it contains the instructions needed to construct other components of cells, such as proteins and RNA molecules.
DNA is an information bearing molecule  a language molecule. It is constructed out of very long chains of four different small composite molecules, and the order of these four molecules determines the message coded into the molecule, just as the order of letters in a word determines the meaning of the word. The process by which the instructions in a DNA molecule are read and followed is one of the most amazing phenomena of life. It involves a third kind of molecule called RNA, and the activity of the cell's army of ribosomes.
DNA replication is the process by which DNA makes a copy of itself during cell division. 1  The first step in DNA replication is to ‘unzip’ the double helix structure of the DNA molecule. 
DNA-STRUCTURE This page, looking at the structure of DNA, is the first in a sequence of pages leading on to how DNA replicates (makes copies of) itself, and then to how information stored in DNA is used to make protein molecules. This material is aimed at 16 - 18 year old chemistry students. Exploring a DNA chain The sugars in the backbone The backbone of DNA is based on a repeated pattern of a sugar group and a phosphate group. The full name of DNA, deoxyribonucleic acid, gives you the name of the sugar present-deoxyribose.
Nitrogenous Bases. - make up the CODE for the information carried in DNA-these make DNA a good molecule for storing information because they can combine in any order-there are 4 kinds in DNA: adenine, guanine, cytosine, and thymine-have a chemical structure that makes them especially good at absorbing UV light. 
DNA. DNA (or deoxyribonucleic acid) is the molecule that carries the genetic information in all cellular forms of life and some viruses. It belongs to a class of molecules called the nucleic acids, which are polynucleotides-that is, long chains of nucleotides. Each nucleotide consists of three components: