In space, the astronauts do not have a bathroom as we have at home. But, they do have their own toothbrushes, toothpaste, combs, brushes, and shavers. These are kept in a Personal Hygiene Kit. Astronauts use toothpaste and toothbrushes just like yours. There is no sink like yours on the Space Shuttle, though.
Astronauts use space shuttles(trasport people and equipment), Space probes (robotic exploration, Spacecrafts (trasport crew, equipment, and other technologies).
But when the Apollo astronauts were on the moon, where there is no air, or when the Shuttle astronauts need to contact earth through the vacuum of space, radio has to be used because radio waves are electromagnetic waves and can travel easily in a vacuum.
One of the biggest problems in keeping astronauts fit and healthy as they travel through the solar system is simply preventing the physiological changes caused by weightlessness, says Dave Williams, director of Space and Life Sciences at the Johnson Space Center.
Living in space is not the same as living on Earth. In space, astronauts' bodies change. On Earth, our lower body and legs carry our weight. This helps keep our bones and muscles strong. In space, astronauts float. They do not use their legs much. Their lower backs begin to lose strength. Their leg muscles do too.
They have to keep their area clean in space just like we do on Earth. In space, the astronauts wipe the walls, floors, and windows to keep them clean. They use a soap that kills germs. The astronauts also use wet wipes to wash things. They use the same kind of wipes and cleanser on their forks, spoons, and eating trays.
A new Integrated Audio system, which enables astronauts to communicate in space, is being tested at NASA's Glenn Research Center in Cleveland in a test rig. Image Credit: NASA NASA is in the process of completely redesigning their space suits, with the goal of creating a brand new space suit to be used starting in 2020.
Right now, the chief countermeasure recommended by space doctors is simply exercise. Astronauts on the International Space Station work out about two hours a day, using treadmills, exercise bikes, and an IRED--a device specially developed to allow astronauts to do resistive or strength training.