In the Teachers' Superannuation (Scotland) Regulations 1992(), in paragraph 1 of Schedule 2, for the words “college of education,” there shall be substituted the words, “designated institution (within the meaning of section 44(2) of the Further and Higher Education (Scotland) Act 1992) or in a”. (b) in paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 2, after the words “a central institution,” there shall be inserted the words “a designated institution within the meaning of section 44(2) of the Further and Higher Education (Scotland) Act 1992,”.
Richard Lauder, Laird of Haltoun. Laird (/ˈlɛərd/) is a generic name for the owner of a Scottish estate, roughly equivalent to an esquire in England, yet ranking above the same in Scotland. In the Scottish order of precedence, a laird ranks below a baron and above a gentleman. A laird is said to hold a lairdship. A woman who holds a lairdship in her own right has been styled with the honorific Lady. Although laird is sometimes translated as lord and historically signifies the same, like the English term lord of the manor laird is not a title of nobility.
Haul-Out Sites. Under Section 117 of the Marine (Scotland) Act 2010, Scottish Ministers, consulting with the Natural Environment Research Council (NERC), are permitted to designate specific seal haul-out sites to provide additional protection for seals from intentional or reckless harassment. Seal haul-outs are locations on land where seals come ashore to rest, moult or breed and Marine Scotland has been working closely with the Sea Mammal Research Unit (SMRU) (on behalf of NERC) to identify suitable sites.
We raised this with the Registers of Scotland who advised that this is a statutory requirement in terms of the definition of “designation” set out in Section 113 (1) of the Land Registration etc. (Scotland) Act 2012 [ http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2012/5/section/113 ]. 
Citation and commencement. 1. This Order may be cited as the Designation of Institutions of Higher Education (Scotland) Order 1992 and shall come into force on 16th May 1992. (b) in paragraph 1(b) of Schedule 2, after the words “a central institution,” there shall be inserted the words “a designated institution within the meaning of section 44(2) of the Further and Higher Education (Scotland) Act 1992,”.
The result was a revised list of 194 seal haul-out sites which were designated through The Protection of Seals(Designation of Haul-Out Sites) (Scotland) Order 2014 laid in the Scottish Parliament on 26 June 2014. Seal haul-outs are locations on land where seals come ashore to rest, moult or breed and Marine Scotland has been working closely with the Sea Mammal Research Unit (SMRU) (on behalf of NERC) to identify suitable sites.
Natural Heritage Designations identify areas of the countryside where the best wildlife and scenery are to be found, and are important for its conservation and enhancement. There is no strict definition of a designation. All apply to areas of land or water-large or small-and have a mapped boundary. 
In England, Wales and Northern Ireland, the primary purpose of the AONB designation is to conserve natural beauty – which by statute includes wildlife, physiographic features and cultural heritage as well as the more conventional concepts of landscape and scenery. By awarding the European Diploma, the Council of Europe recognises that the area is of particular European interest for natural-heritage and that the area is properly protected. The Diploma can be awarded to national parks, nature reserves or natural areas, sites or features.
The regulatory landscape for reservoir safety in Scotland is changing with the introduction of the Reservoirs (Scotland) Act 2011 (the 2011 Act). The 2011 Act introduces a proportionate and risk based regulatory regime based on the consequences of an uncontrolled release of water on downstream receptors. Registration of reservoirs under the Reservoirs (Scotland) Act 2011. Reservoir managers who are responsible for reservoirs currently regulated under the Reservoirs Act 1975 are required to register their reservoirs with SEPA.
A large proportion of the land area in Great Britain is under the protection of conservation designations. Statutory designations broadly fall into three categories: nature conservation, landscape conservation and natural heritage conservation, which protects wildlife, landscape and cultural aspects of the countryside.