If its an above ground pool you can get it done for free. Place an add in the paper stating free pool if you take down and remove. When the people come explain that you do not want your property mistreated. I did this when it was time for us to get a new pool. I had so many calls and it was gone with in 24 hours. Most People will jump on the offer for a free swimming pool, the only catch is that they need to take it down. If its an in-ground pool, it will be costly.You dont actually remove the pool. You will have to have holes drilled into the bottom of the pool for water to pass through either direction depending on season.
Report Abuse. Cost Depends on your swimming pool. I dont know if you have an Above Ground or an In Ground pool. An Above Ground pool is VERY easy to have removed. An Advertisement offering a free pool to whoever wants it, usually works best. Most People will jump on the offer for a free swimming pool, the only catch is that they need to take it down. If its an in-ground pool, it will be costly.You dont actually remove the pool. You will have to have holes drilled into the bottom of the pool for water to pass through either direction depending on season.
- $800 run a power line for the motor - $400 for above ground pool fence and alarm (town requirement) - $300 for landscaping after installed the pool (seeding and stone around the pool, etc) - then ofcourse monthly cost to maintain the pool and opening and closing cost. hope this helps. Typically, the more resin and less metal the pool has, the higher the price will be and the longer it will last. The installation costs of above ground pools usually run $1000-$3000, depending on the size and type of pool.
Over the years, an above ground pool will show signs of stress and age, complete with corrosion and possibly, rust. That not only makes it unsightly, it makes it a safety hazard and that’s when it’s time to collapse it, take it apart, and dispose of it. 
Above ground pools are much easier to demolish and remove than inground pools. Costs for above ground pool removal vary considerably, but it's generally significantly less than removing an inground pool. The cost of pool removal depends mostly on the type of pool (above ground pool vs. inground pool), the size of the pool, ease of access to the pool area, method of pool removal (ie. partial pool removal by filling in the pool or complete demolition and removal) and the pool removal contractor you select.
A good rule of thumb to follow is to take the pool apart in the opposite order you put it together. If you didn’t put the pool together, taking a round above ground pool down is not difficult. 
The cost of an above ground pool will vary based on size and shape. Larger, as well as oval-shaped pools will be most expensive. Filling this type of pool uses only 18,015 gallons of water, on average, and chemicals average $80 a month. With above ground pools open an average of close to five months of the year, annual chemical costs will total near $400.
The average above ground swimming pool kit will cost between $1500 and $4500, depending on the quality of the pool. Typically, the more resin and less metal the pool has, the higher the price will be and the longer it will last. The installation costs of above ground pools usually run $1000-$3000, depending on the size and type of pool. Keep in mind that oval pools normally cost more to install than round pools, and the kits are also more expensive
Doughboy pools use an expandable pool liner, and Kayak pools have rectangular pool liners. Above ground pool liners vary in cost, ranging from $99 for a 12′ round overlap liner, to $660 for an 18×33′ oval beaded liner. Length, width and depth is the main pricing factor. The cost to replace an above ground liner yourself can be less than half the cost of contractors, who typically double their liner cost, and then charge $500-$1000 for labor. A simple weekend project, replacing a pool liner requires only basic tools, and a small pump to drain the pool