There is controversy as to whether avoidant personality disorder is a distinct disorder from generalized social anxiety disorder, and it is contended by some that they are merely different conceptualisations of the same disorder, where avoidant personality disorder may represent the more severe form. Those with this disorder may often choose jobs of isolation so that they do not have to interact with the public regularly, due to their anxiety and fear of embarrassing themselves in front of others.
Abstract. As in previous selective exposure (avoidance) research, the purpose of this study was to determine whether individuals shy away from information which could be dissonance-arousing. 
Avoidant restrictive food intake disorder is a disorder in which food or eating is avoided to the extent that nutritional requirements are not met and a considerable amount of weight and energy is lost. 1 Common Symptoms of Avoidant Restrictive Food Intake Disorder-Avoidant eating disorder is a condition under the Eating Disorders Not Otherwise Specified category.
Selective exposure is a theory within the practice of psychology, often used in media and communication research, that historically refers to individuals’ tendency to favor information which reinforces their pre-existing views while avoiding contradictory information. Accuracy motivation is not always beneficial within the context of selective exposure and can instead be counterintuitive, increasing the amount of selective exposure. Defense motivation can lead to reduced levels
Selective avoidance refers to the idea that either a behavior, thought, situation, etc. is avoided at certain times in order to cope with stress, but not always. A very basic example would be a child who stops going to the playground when a bully goes but will go on days that he knows the bully does not go. Rate the effectiveness of the use of avoidance coping (scale 1-5). Avoidance coping refers to strategies that attempt to avoid stressful situations rather than solve them. This may include self-destructive behavior, behavioral, mental, and emotional disengagement, and denial of stressful situations.
People are hesitant to use this energy; they tend to be careful so they don't waste it. Thus, this model suggests that selective exposure does not happen in separate stages. Rather, it is a combined process of the individuals' certain acts of motivations and their management of the cognitive energy. Accuracy motivation is not always beneficial within the context of selective exposure and can instead be counterintuitive, increasing the amount of selective exposure. Defense motivation can lead to reduced levels
For the phase in child development, see Food neophobia. Avoidant/restrictive food intake disorder (ARFID), also known as selective eating disorder (SED), is an eating disorder that prevents the consumption of certain foods. It is often viewed as a phase of childhood that is generally overcome with age. Some people may not grow out of the disorder, however, and may continue to be afflicted with ARFID throughout their adult lives.
In some cases, this may indicate different food preferences of the child, which may normalize the situation. This has to be differentiated from Avoidant Restrictive Food Intake Disorder in which the child is severely harmed due to selective or restrictive eating habits. Food refusal, which may be inconsistent, does not in any way pose hazards to the health of the child, the way ARFID, does. 1 Common Symptoms of Avoidant Restrictive Food Intake Disorder-Avoidant eating disorder is a condition under the Eating Disorders Not Otherwise Specified category.
Fischer and Greitemeyer (2010) explored individuals’ decision making in terms of selective exposure to confirmatory information. Selective exposure posed that individuals make their decisions based on information that is consistent with their decision rather than information that is inconsistent. Accuracy motivation is not always beneficial within the context of selective exposure and can instead be counterintuitive, increasing the amount of selective exposure. Defense motivation can lead to reduced levels
The present study investigated selective attention to pain in children, its implications for child avoidance behaviour, and the moderating role of dimensions comprising child and parental catastrophizing about pain (ie, rumination, magnification, and helplessness). The present study is part of a larger investigation consisting of 2 parts. The first part aimed at examining the relationship between child’s selective attention to pain and avoidance behaviour and the moderating role of child and parental catastrophizing about personal pain.