Kenmore is the Sears brand of appliances. This brand is sold throughout the United States in Sears centers, K-Marts and outlet stores. Save. Kenmore is the Sears brand of appliances. This brand is sold throughout the United States in Sears centers, K-Marts and outlet stores. Like many other brands, Kenmore appliances are manufactured by other companies and labeled with the Kenmore name.
Blog Post: http://bit.ly/1KPm5bq. This video shows how to know who makes the Kenmore Appliance that you are wanting to purchase. This might be important to you if you are looking to avoid a certain manufacturer, or if you are trying to stay with a good manufacturer. Published on Sep 27, 2013. 
Kenmore appliances are actually made by most of the major manufacturers for Sears. The following model prefixes are listed along with who makes them: 665. Whirlpool Dishwasher. 110. Whirlpool Laundry. 587. Frigidaire Dishwasher. 106. 1 A Review of Kenmore Gas Grills People often associate Kenmore products with the quality of a major brand name. 2  Kenmore has even become one of the most widely known home appliance brands in America.
1 A Review of Kenmore Gas Grills People often associate Kenmore products with the quality of a major brand name. 2  Kenmore has even become one of the most widely known home appliance brands in America. Whirlpool has been making Kenmore's appliances for decades and has the monopoly on Refrigerators in the USA (above 70% of the market). Most are built in Mexico, paying workers about $2.00/hour (2006).
If you know of any omissions or anomalies, please report them to the webmaster. The Kenmore product line is made for Sears by the leading appliance manufacturers and branded with the Kenmore name. Sears does not manufacture any products themselves. You can determine the manufacturer of your particular Kenmore appliance by comparing the model number prefix (first 3 or 4 digits of the model number before a dot or space) with the table below. (Eg. 110.20622991 or 110 20622991).
1 Kenmore has even become one of the most widely known home appliance brands in America. 2  When Ke…. 3  A Review of Kenmore Gas Grills People often associate Kenmore products with the quality of a major brand name. 4  Kenmore has even become one of the most widely known home appliance brands in America. Whirlpool has been making Kenmore's appliances for decades and has the monopoly on Refrigerators in the USA (above 70% of the market). Most are built in Mexico, paying workers about $2.00/hour (2006).
The brand is controlled by Sears Holdings, and owned by KCD IP, LLC, a special purpose entity created by Sears Holdings for securitization purposes. The name KCD IP is an acronym for Kenmore Craftsman DieHard intellectual property. Today the brand is sold at all Sears Holdings stores, including Sears and, since 2005, at Kmart. The first Kenmore branded product was a washing machine introduced in 1927. The first Kenmore vacuum cleaners were introduced in 1932. Kenmore's upscale line of appliances is known as the Elite line. Kenmore also has a professional line of appliances called Kenmore Pro. On March 12, 2010, the Kenmore brand launched its first interactive Kenmore Live Studio in Chicago