Chrysopelea ornata is usually green in color, with black cross-hatching and yellow or gold colored accents. The body, though slender, is far less so than in other tree snakes. It has a flattened head with constricted neck, a blunt nose and large eyes with round pupils. Chrysopelea ornata has two major colour forms, which are largely determined by geographic locality, and their descriptions are given below: 1  In Sri Lanka and the southern extent of its Indian range, the snake is primarily greenish yellow or pale green.
Golden Tree Snake. The golden tree snake (Chrysopelea ornata), also called the ornate flying snake, is the largest of these unique reptiles. It can reach about 4 feet in length. It is usually known to be pure yellow in color, but color variations, like yellow to lime green, are also observed. The twin-barred tree snake Chrysopelea pelias is the smallest of all flying snakes. It is about 2 feet in length, and is black or gray in color. Thick red and thin yellow bands cover its entire body. The species is very rare in nature, and therefore, it is very difficult to come across one in the wild.
Common names: golden tree snake, ornate flying snake, golden flying snake (more). Chrysopelea ornata is a colubrid snake found in both South and Southeast Asia. Chrysopelea ornata has two major colour forms, which are largely determined by geographic locality, and their descriptions are given below: 1  In Sri Lanka and the southern extent of its Indian range, the snake is primarily greenish yellow or pale green.
No matter what shade or  color combination a snake has, each snake's color is key to its  survival as both hunter and prey. The most common snake colors are  black, green, brown and yellow. 1 person found this useful. 
Though it is called the golden tree snake, there are other colour variations; for example, some phases tend to lean towards lime green in colour rather than pure yellow, while in India, it has orange to red markings and small black bars on the dorsum, almost as rich in colouration as the paradise tree snake. Twin-barred tree snake or banded flying snake, Chrysopelea pelias. : This is the smallest flying snake species, reaching up to two feet in length. Its base colour is black or dark grey, and the entire body is covered with thick red and thin yellow with black bands.
The golden tree snake(Chrysopelea ornata) is also known as flying snake. This is a harmless variety of snake. Local Names: Urdu ' Kalajin; Singhalese Pol-mal-karawala. The golden tree snake(Chrysopelea ornata) is also known as flying snake. This is a harmless variety of snake that has a distinctive color and is very slender. Its lateral, sharp and keeled condition of the ventrals in association with its un-enlarged vertebral row of scales distinguishes this snake from other snakes. Its head is pear-shaped and appears to be strongly depressed.
The adult snakes are about 4 feet long. Because the size of snake is bigger compared to other flying snakes, it has weaker ability to glide. [6] They have many different body color which are green or greenish-yellow and other colors. [7]. Anatomy. Most of adult flying snakes are 1 to 1.2 meters long (3 to 4 feet) but the smallest species' adult size is only 60 to 70 cm (2 feet).
Twin-barred Tree Snake. The twin-barred tree snake Chrysopelea pelias is the smallest of all flying snakes. It is about 2 feet in length, and is black or gray in color. Thick red and thin yellow bands cover its entire body. The species is very rare in nature, and therefore, it is very difficult to come across one in the wild.
Chrysopelea, more commonly known as the flying snake or gliding snake, is a genus that belongs to the family Colubridae. Flying snakes are mildly venomous, though the venom is only dangerous to their small prey. Twin-barred tree snake or banded flying snake, Chrysopelea pelias. : This is the smallest flying snake species, reaching up to two feet in length. Its base colour is black or dark grey, and the entire body is covered with thick red and thin yellow with black bands.