The extrinsic glands associated with the digestive system secrete components that aid in the digestion of foodstuffs in the mouth and intestine. The liver is also involved in the further processing of nutrients for the body. Digestion starts with saliva which is a mucous secretion containing the enzyme amylase. 3. Describe the flow of saliva from its synthesis to secretion. 4. Identify the glands and bladder associated with the lower digestive system. 5. Describe the organization of the parenchyma in the pancreas and its duct system. 6. Define and characterize the cellular components found in the acini of the pancreas. 7.
Extrinsic Salivary Glands: 1. Parotid Gland: The main function of the parotid gland is to release saliva through the Stenson's duct, which opens opposite the upper second molar tooth. The parotid glands are found overlying the mandibular ramus and the inferior part of the external ear. 2. 
1. Identify and distinguish the three extrinsic salivary glands. 2. Identify the components of the secretory end-pieces. 3. Describe the flow of saliva from its synthesis to secretion. 4. Identify the glands and bladder associated with the lower digestive system. 5. Describe the organization of the parenchyma in the pancreas and its duct system. 6. Define and characterize the cellular components found in the acini of the pancreas. 7.
Two types of glands secrete saliva into the mouth. The first type of glands are called intrinsic salivary glands. These are small glands dispersed throughout the mouth. They have openings in different parts of the mouth, such as under the base of the tongue, on the inside of the lips, and on the inside of the cheeks. They secrete saliva regardless of whether we are eating. The saliva that they secrete contains lipase, an enzyme that breaks down fats when it comes into contact with the hydrochloric acid in the stomach, and lysozyme, an enzyme that destroys bacteria. Extrinsic salivary glands are the second type of salivary gland.
Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Intrinsic salivary glands, located throughout the mouth, keep the mouth moist, while Extrinsic salivary glands secrete serous, enzyme-rich saliva in response to ingested food and the thought of food. 
SEARCH. The salivary glands are the small glands responsible for the production of saliva, a highly important link in the digestive chain. They are considered to be accessory digestive glands. Saliva serves a dual function
Salivary Glands:Intrinsic & Extrinsic Glands • intrinsic salivary glands – small glands dispersed amid other oral tissues • lingual glands – in the tongue– produce lingual lipase • labial glands – inside of the lips• buccal glands – inside of the cheek – all secrete saliva at a fairly constant rate. 