The United States of America (U.S.A.) is located in North America. It is bound in the north by Canada, in the east by the North Atlantic Ocean, in the south by Mexico, and in the west by the North Pacific Ocean. More... USA comprises 50 states and a federal district. The capital city of the country is Washington DC Some of the major cities in the United States of America are New York City, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago, Seattle, Washington DC, Philadelphia, Houston, Miami, Las Vegas, Boston, and Atlanta. History of USA.
The United States Capitol, often called Capitol Hill, is the seat of the United States Congress, the legislative branch of the U.S. federal government. It sits atop Capitol Hill, at the eastern end of the National Mall in Washington, D.C. . 
The street address for the US Supreme Court Building: One First Street, NE. Washington, DC 20543. Additionally, the Supreme Court is located across First Street from the US Capitol Building, and across East Capitol Street from the Thomas Jefferson Building of the Library of Congress. The nearest Metrorail station is Union Station, located 3 blocks to the north. Mailing Address.
Mexico is located in the south of USA and Canada is situated in the north of USA. United States of America is politically divided into fifty states and one federal district. Washington D.C is its capital city (Washington DC Map) . The states of Alaska and Hawaii Islands are the only two states not sharing contiguous boundaries with the country. Alaska is situated to the northwest side of North America sharing its border with the neighboring country of Canada and Hawaii Island is an archipelago in the Pacific Ocean.
The headquarters of the National Weather Service is located in Silver Spring, Maryland, with regional headquarters located in Kansas City, Missouri; Bohemia, New York; Fort Worth, Texas; Salt Lake City, Utah; Anchorage, Alaska; and Honolulu, Hawaii. 
LOCATION AND SIZE. The 48 states that make up the continental United States are located in North America between Mexico and Canada. The state of Hawaii is located in the Pacific Ocean, midway between North America and Asia, and the state of Alaska is located on the extreme northwest corner of North America. The United States also controls a number of small islands in the Caribbean and the Pacific. The Eastern United States borders the Atlantic Ocean and the Caribbean Sea, while the West Coast borders the Pacific Ocean. Areas of Alaska border the Arctic Ocean. In all, the country has 19,924 kilometers (12,380 miles) of coastline.
The third largest country of the world, the United States of America is located in North America between Mexico and Canada. The states of Alaska and Hawaii Islands are the only two states not sharing contiguous boundaries with the country. Alaska is situated to the northwest side of North America sharing its border with the neighboring country of Canada and Hawaii Island is an archipelago in the Pacific Ocean.