Photosynthesis converts these energy-depleted compounds (ADP and NADP+) back to the high energy forms (ATP and NADPH) and the energy thus produced in this chemical form is utilized to drive the chemical reactions necessary for synthesis of sugars and other carbon containing compounds (e.g., proteins, fats). 
Free Energy from Hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the energy currency of life and it provides that energy for most biological processes by being converted to ADP (adenosine diphosphate). Since the basic reaction involves a water molecule, this reaction is commonly referred to as the h
ATP is a compound that is synthesized when what happens? ATP is a compound that is synthesized when energy that is stored in  chemical bonds is released during cellular respiration. ATP is  considered as the energy-currency of an … organism. Answered. In Biology. 
This chemical energy is stored in carbohydrate molecules, such as sugars, which are synthesized from carbon dioxide and water – hence the name photosynthesis, from the Greek φῶς, phōs, light, and σύνθεσις, synthesis, putting together. In most cases, oxygen is also released as a waste product. Photosynthesis occurs in two stages. In the first stage, light-dependent reactions or light reactions capture the energy of light and use it to make the energy-storage molecules ATP and NADPH. During the second stage, the light-independent reactions use these products to capture and reduce carbon dioxide.
1. chemical bonds between carbon atoms are formed by during photo synthesis 2. energy is stored in chemical bonds is released during cellular respiration 3. energy stored in nitrogen is released froming amino acids 4. digestive enzymes break amino acids into smaller pieces? 
Conversion from ATP to ADP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the energy currency of life and it provides that energy for most biological processes by being converted to ADP (adenosine diphosphate). Since the basic reaction involves a water molecule, this reaction is commonly referred to as the hydrolysis of AT
A. Energy is being stored as a result of aerobic respiration. B. Fermentation is taking place, resulting in the synthesis of ATP. C. Energy is being released for metabolic activities. D. Photosynthesis is taking place, resulting in the storage of energy. 2. 
ATP is a compound that is synthesized when energy that is stored in  chemical bonds is released during cellular respiration. ATP is  considered as the energy-currency of an … organism. Answered. In Biology. This is a typical muscle cell, you the insulin receptor at the top of page within the membrane of the cell. That insulin receptor sends a signal over to the Glut 4 gluco … se channel in the membrane to the left of the insulin receptor in which sugers enter the cell.
Although there is a theoretical yield of 38 ATP molecules per glucose during cellular respiration, such conditions are generally not realized due to losses such as the cost of moving pyruvate (from glycolysis), phosphate, and ADP (substrates for ATP synthesis) into the mitochondria. Most of the ATP produced by aerobic cellular respiration is made by oxidative phosphorylation. This works by the energy released in the consumption of pyruvate being used to create a chemiosmotic potential by pumping protons across a membrane.