The two branches of immunity includes, humoral immunity and cell-mediated immunity. The humoral immune response, is the aspect of immunity that is mediated by secreted antibodies produced in the cells of the B lymphocyte lineage (B cell).
Cell-mediated immunity is an immune response that does not involve antibodies but rather involves the activation of phagocytes, natural killer cells (NK), antigen-specific cytotoxic T-lymphocytes, and the release of various cytokines in response to an antigen.
1 Cell mediated immunity or CMI in which the lymphocytes also termed as T cells form a bonding with other surface cells that exhibit antigen and activate a response.
Discussion of antibodies. 1  cell-mediated immunity (CMI). 2  T cells (lymphocytes) bind to the surface of other cells that display the antigen and trigger a response. 3  The response may involve.
1 cell-mediated immunity (CMI). 2  T cells (lymphocytes) bind to the surface of other cells that display the antigen and trigger a response. 3  The response may involve. 4  other lymphocytes and. 5  any of the other white blood cells (leukocytes).
Cell-mediated immunity, also known as cellular immunity, is one of the two types of the adoptive immune system inside the body. It is mostly responsible for fighting microbes and antigens or foreign substances inside the cells. The T lymphocytes, or thymus-derived lymphocytes, are a key part of cell-mediated immunity.
Cell-mediated immune response reactions are responsible for defense against certain bacterial, fungal, and viral pathogens; malignant cells; and other foreign proteins and tissues. Allergic dermatitis is an example of a cell-mediated immune response.
• Humoral immunity is mediated by B-cells while cell-mediated immunity is mediated by T-cells. • In the humoral immunity, the B-cells secrete antibodies whereas in the cell-mediated immunity, the T-cells do not secrete receptors. T-cell receptors are bound to the T-cells and the cells themselves bind with antigens.
The role of effector T cells in cell-mediated and humoral immune responses to representative pathogens. Cell-mediated immune responses involve the destruction of infected cells by cytotoxic T cells, or the destruction of intracellular pathogens by macrophages (more...).