Our goal was to build a ladder with a comfortable angle, level flat steps, and rails that extended into the loft for safer handholds. A good way to get rail angles and step layouts is to measure a step ladder with a similar height to the loft floor. We used kiln-dried framing material and some newel post mounting hardware to make the nice new loft ladder for this project. Step by Step. After cutting the first rail to length with the right angle at the floor and a bird’s mouth notch to the loft trim, we used it as a template to make the other rail. With one of the rails in place, we determined our step intervals using a step ladder as a model.
When you are measuring up for your new loft ladders you need to make a few 'key' measurements, but bear in mind some of these are slightly different depending on which type of ladder you want to buy. Floor to Ceiling Height This is the distance measured from the floor, where your ladders will rest, to the ceiling of the same room. This measurement is usually required if the ladders are of the 'Folding' style, or come with an integrated frame and hatch.
When you are measuring up for your new loft ladders you need to make a few 'key' measurements, but bear in mind some of these are slightly different depending on which type of ladder you want to buy. We have set out to show you the main measurements and in a bit more detail including how to measure them accurately. Loft Opening Dimensions. This is the maximum size of the 'hole' that could be made in your loft floor to accomodate your loft ladders, this may be bigger than the size of your existing loft opening if you have one.
For example, if you measure that you can make a loft opening with maximum dimensions of 1100 mm x 600 mm then you will know that a loft ladder with a supplied hatch size of 1000 mm x 500 mm will fit. Loft Opening Dimensions. This is the maximum size of the 'hole' that could be made in your loft floor to accomodate your loft ladders, this may be bigger than the size of your existing loft opening if you have one.
You might find that you have enough room once the ladders are fully extended and ready for use but the swing clearance can actually mean that the ladders would not fold away correctly. You need to measure the distance from the hinge end of your loft hatch to the nearest obstruction, usually a wall. Loft Opening Dimensions. This is the maximum size of the 'hole' that could be made in your loft floor to accomodate your loft ladders, this may be bigger than the size of your existing loft opening if you have one.
Floor to Floor Height (mm). This is the measurement from the floor where your ladder sits to the floor of the room above, usually your loft/attic. You will need this measurement for Sliding, Concertina and Telescopic Loft Ladders as these all need to be fitted to the loft floor using brackets normally. Floor to Ceiling Height (mm). This is the measurement from the floor where your ladder sits to the ceiling of the same room. You will need this measurement for Folding style Loft Ladders or Integrated frame and hatch. Loft Opening Measurement. This measurement is for the maximum size of the hole that can be made in your loft to be able to fit your new Loft Ladder. Other things to consider are where the joists are, and possibly boilers, chimneys, cables and any other obstructions.
1 Make sure you take the measurement from the topside of hatch (the floor of the loft). 2  Now, from the same side of the hatch (loft ladder hinged side) measure horizontally to the closest obstruction, running your tape measure across the loft floor or loft boarding travelling away from the hatch. 3  Record this measurement. Sliding Loft Ladders. This type of loft is a popular loft ladder for those who are looking for ‘simple means of access’ to their loft and is designed for occasional domestic use. These loft ladders usually work independently from the loft hatch trapdoor, and are usually operated using a pole supplied with the ladder.
Today’s topic is all about how to measure for a loft ladder – something we get frequently asked by our customers. When measuring for a loft ladder, the first thing to consider is the type of loft ladder you wish to install. Concertina loft ladders. These ladders help you to save on space and fit loft hatches as small as 600 x 500mm. In addition, they require almost no inside loft clearance! They’re strong and safe with extra wide treads for comfort.
Horizontal clearance. This measurement is for the sliding loft ladders and is taken from the hinge of the hatch along your loft floor to the nearest obstruction. The obstruction could be the eaves of the roof, a boiler or structural obstruction. Concertina loft ladders. These ladders help you to save on space and fit loft hatches as small as 600 x 500mm. In addition, they require almost no inside loft clearance! They’re strong and safe with extra wide treads for comfort.
Loft opening dimensions: 1  For Sliding, Telescopic and Concertina loft ladders (Trapdoor Size) – Measure what the maximum length and width of that your trapdoor could be. 2  For ladders that are supplied with a hatch and frame – Measure what the maximum length and width of that your trapdoor could be. Concertina loft ladders. These ladders help you to save on space and fit loft hatches as small as 600 x 500mm. In addition, they require almost no inside loft clearance! They’re strong and safe with extra wide treads for comfort.