Home or Farm Scale Wind Turbines. Wind turbines under 100 kilowatts cost roughly $3,000 to $8,000 per kilowatt of capacity. A 10 kilowatt machine (the size needed to power a large home) might have an installed cost of $50,000-$80,000 (or more). Wind turbines have significant economies of scale. Smaller farm or residential scale turbines cost less overall, but are more expensive per kilowatt of energy producing capacity. Oftentimes there are tax and other incentives that can dramatically reduce the cost of a wind project.
The cost of a wind energy project will vary depending on the scale, site and installation requirements. Some typical figures for the installed cost for different scales of wind turbine are provided in the following table. Capital cost figures are approximate and include installation costs due to civil works. Planning and feasibility study costs are not included as these vary considerably.
This improvement will be driven by declining costs of wind farm installation, foundations and turbine The potential for cost reductions towers, which are expected to fall by 6.6%, 6.1% and 5.4% respectively in the next five years. Capital expenditure on wind turbines accounts for approximately 40% of the cost of bringing offshore wind farms online, so any cost reductions in the turbine supply chain will have a material impact on total costs.
The costs for a utility scale wind turbine range from about $1.3 million to $2.2 million per MW of nameplate capacity installed. Most of the commercial-scale turbines installed today are 2 MW in size and cost roughly $3-$4 million installed. Wind turbines have significant economies of scale. Smaller farm or residential scale turbines cost less overall, but are more expensive per kilowatt of energy producing capacity. Oftentimes there are tax and other incentives that can dramatically reduce the cost of a wind project.
Recent improvements in turbine technology has reduced the cost of wind energy, allowing electricity consumers and utilities to lock in low, affordable electricity rates through 20 to 30 year contracts. GO TO: Cost of Wind Energy: PPA, Capital Cost, and Performance. As a renewable resource, wind energy has no fuel cost, allowing electricity consumers and utilities to lock-in known electricity rates for 20 to 30 years through contracts called Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs).
1 The Department of Energy finds that “ Among a large sample of wind projects installed in 2012, the capacity-weighted average installed cost stood at nearly $1,940/kW, down almost $200/kW from the reported average cost in 2011 and down almost $300/kW from the reported average cost in both 2009 and 2010 .” [3]. As a renewable resource, wind energy has no fuel cost, allowing electricity consumers and utilities to lock-in known electricity rates for 20 to 30 years through contracts called Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs).
Capital costs: The cost of the wind turbine is the single largest cost component, and can make up 70% or more of the entire cost of a land-based wind project. The cost of installation, such as construction, makes up the remaining capital costs. As a renewable resource, wind energy has no fuel cost, allowing electricity consumers and utilities to lock-in known electricity rates for 20 to 30 years through contracts called Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs).
Small farm and residential turbines cost far less to build or install, but cost more per kilowatt of energy produced. The price of residential and farm turbines are based on kilowatts, and 10 kilowatts cost $48,000. You can expect to pay between $2,800 and $4,800 per kilowatt with professionally constructed turbines. The good news is there are kits that teach you how to make your own wind turbine for $200 or less.
Total costs for installing a commercial-scale wind turbine will vary significantly depending on the number of turbines ordered, cost of financing, when the turbine purchase agreement was executed, construction contracts, the location of the project, and other factors. Wind turbines have significant economies of scale. Smaller farm or residential scale turbines cost less overall, but are more expensive per kilowatt of energy producing capacity. Oftentimes there are tax and other incentives that can dramatically reduce the cost of a wind project.