affidavit-Investment & Finance Definition. A sworn, written statement made in the presence of a notary public or a person who is authorized to administer an oath. Affidavits are used in legal proceedings and may be submitted in lieu of having a person appear in court. A voluntary and written ex parte statement of facts signed and the truth of its content affirmed or sworn to by the declarant before a notary public or another officer authorized to administer oaths. See also affirmation.
affidavit-Legal Definition. n. A voluntary and written ex parte statement of facts signed and the truth of its content affirmed or sworn to by the declarant before a notary public or another officer authorized to administer oaths. See also affirmation.
A sworn declaration (also called a sworn statement or a statement under penalty of perjury) is a document that recites facts pertinent to a legal proceeding. It is very similar to an affidavit, but unlike an affidavit, it is not witnessed and sealed by an official such as a notary public. 
Affidavits Law & Legal Definition. An affidavit is statement of facts which is sworn to (or affirmed) before an officer who has authority to administer an oath (e.g. a notary public). The person making the signed statement (affiant) takes an oath that the contents are, to the best of their knowledge, true. It is also signed by a notary or some other judicial officer that can administer oaths, affirming that the person signing the affidavit was under oath when doing so. A jurat is the bottom part of an affidavit where the officer certifies that the document was sworn before him. Jurat notarizations are required for transactions where the signer must attest to the content of the document, such as all affidavits and pleadings in court.
An affidavit (/ˌaefɨˈdeɪvɨt/ ˌæfɨˈdeɪvɨt-a-Fə-day) vət is a written sworn statement of fact voluntarily made by an affiant or deponent under an oath or affirmation administered by a person authorized to do so by. law If an affidavit is notarized or authenticated, it will also include a caption with a venue and title in reference to judicial proceedings. In some cases, an introductory clause, called a preamble, is added attesting that the affiant personally appeared before the authenticating authority.
noun. The definition of affidavit is a legal term for an official written statement made under oath before a judge, notary public or other person with legal authority. A voluntary and written ex parte statement of facts signed and the truth of its content affirmed or sworn to by the declarant before a notary public or another officer authorized to administer oaths. See also affirmation.
Full Definition of AFFIDAVIT. : a sworn statement in writing made especially under oath or on affirmation before an authorized magistrate or officer. See affidavit defined for English-language learners. See affidavit defined for kids. Definition of AFFIDAVIT for Kids. : a written statement signed by a person who swears that the information is true.
Such statement is witnessed as to the authenticity of the affiant's signature by a taker of oaths, such as a notary public or commissioner of oaths. The name is Medieval Latin for he/she has declared upon oath. An affidavit is a type of verified statement or showing, or in other words, it contains a verification, meaning it is under oath or penalty of perjury, and this serves as evidence to its veracity and is required for court proceedings. If an affidavit is notarized or authenticated, it will also include a caption with a venue and title in reference to judicial proceedings. In some cases, an introductory clause, called a preamble, is added attesting that the affiant personally appeared before the authenticating authority.
Noun. 1. affidavit-written declaration made under oath; a written statement sworn to be true before someone legally authorized to administer an oath. legal document, legal instrument, official document, instrument - (law) a document that states some contractual relationship or grants some right. affidavit. A declaration made in writing and under oath in the presence of an authorized person such as a notary public.
a written statement that is sworn to before a notary public or an officer of the court. Deposition; a pledge, oath, or statement by a person about certain facts, which is written and sworn to in the presence of a person authorised to administer such an oath, such as a notary public (US).