TomorrowLand. Boom, Belgium's TomorrowLand is one of the biggest electronic music festivals in the world. ID&T makes sure to include fanciful stage design, innovative decorations and attractions, and a superior line-up of the biggest and best DJs in the dance music scene. 
The Carnaval in Rio de Janeiro is a world famous festival held before Lent every year and considered the biggest carnival in the world with 2 million people per day on the streets. The first festivals of Rio date back to 1823. Oktoberfest is the world's largest beer festival held annually in Munich, Bavaria, Germany. It is a 16-day festival running from late September to the first weekend in October with more than 6 million people from around the world attending the event every year. The event is all about beer, beer and only beer.
4. Rock In Rio: First held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil in 1985, Rock in Rio became one of the largest music festivals of its kind in the world. Aside from its Brazilian location, it is held in three other cities; Madrid, Spain; Lisbon, Portugal and, for the first time this year, Las Vegas, Nevada. Ultra: Ultra is the biggest electronic music festival in the United States. It takes place every year in Miami, Florida. Since 1999, Ultra has grown from a small underground weekend festival to an annual gathering of hundreds of thousands of people. Last year, the festival was attended by 330,000 concert goers. 9.
The Carnaval in Rio de Janeiro is the largest carnival in the world and takes place before Lent. Over 2 million people a day fill the streets to partake in the festival events and parades. Music, drinks, and traditional foods are consumed by the thousands as festival goers samba their way through the city streets. Tomorrowland. Arguably the biggest electronic music festival in the world, Tomorrowland attracts close to 200,000 people a day over its July weekend in Boom, Belgium. Tomorrowland has continued to grow in size over the years, venturing to the U.S. and Brazil as TomorrowWorld.
The Band/Live Aid series. Glastonbury in the UK is the biggest annual music festival. What is the world's biggest festival arts? The granddaddy of art fairs, Art Basel was established in 1970 by a group of local art gallerists and is the biggest contemporary art fair in the world.
The World's Biggest Music Festivals. Festivals have become synonymous with summer, attracting thousands of music fans-tents in tow-and lining up the biggest rock and pop stars. The biggest are in Europe, where many music fans go on an annual pilgrimage to their preferred festival. We've assembled the 20 biggest by attendance. Read more
Roskilde, one of Europe's largest festivals, attracts artists ranging from synthpop to hip-hop. Held in June or July each year, the festival attracts over 100,000 people and includes a naked run for those who feel wearing clothing is too mainstream. Glastonbury. A five-day music festival held near Pilton, Somerset, England on the last weekend of June, Glastonbury is one of the world's largest. Secret shows have been played by Radiohead and Skrillex for those in the know.