The word Singh is derived from the Sanskrit word for lion (सिंह siṃha). Several variants of the word are found in other languages: 1  In Hindi, the name is written सिंह 2  (. [sɪŋɦə]), and pronounced घ (singh, [ 3 sɪŋɡʱ]). 4  Variations include Simha and Sinha in Bihar. Singh is used by all baptized male Sikhs, regardless of their geographical or cultural binding; the females use Kaur. In the 18th century, several groups started using the title Singh. These included the Brahmins, the Kayasthas and the Baniyas of what are now Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.
All Sikhs share the surname Singh, which means a Lion. All Sikhs women use the name Kaur, which means a Princess. In Sikhism these titles eliminate discrimination based on family name (which denotes a specific caste) and reinforces that all humans are sovereigns and equal under God. 
A: Singh means a lion and Kaur means a princess. In Sikhism these titles eliminate discrimination based on “family name” (which denotes a specific caste) and reinforces that all humans are sovereigns and equal under God. 
Derived from the Sanskrit word for lion, it was originally used as a title by the warriors in India. It was later adopted by several castes and communities, including the Sikhs, whose Guru Gobind Singh mandated it for all the baptized males. Singh is used by all baptized male Sikhs, regardless of their geographical or cultural binding; the females use Kaur. In the 18th century, several groups started using the title Singh. These included the Brahmins, the Kayasthas and the Baniyas of what are now Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.
The word Khalsa means pure, Khalsa's are Sikhs which have undergone the sacred Amrit Ceremony initiated by the 10th Sikh Guru, Guru Gobind Singh. The Khalsa order was initially created on Baisakhi Day March 30 1699, with Guru Gobind Singh baptizing 5 Sikhs and then in turn asking the five Khalsa's to baptize him. 
A Sikh, according to Article I of the Sikh Rehat Maryada (the Sikh code of conduct), is any human being who faithfully believes in One Immortal Being; ten Gurus, from Guru Nanak to Guru Gobind Singh; Guru Granth Sahib; the teachings of the ten Gurus and the baptism bequeathed by the tenth Guru . Sikh properly refers to adherents of Sikhism as a religion, not an ethnic group.
A Sikh (/siːk, sɪk/ ; Punjabi: ਸਿੱਖ sikkh [sɪkkʰ]) is a follower of Sikhism, a monotheistic dharma which originated during the 15th century in the Punjab region of South Asia. Sikh properly refers to adherents of Sikhism as a religion, not an ethnic group.
1 Singh, or Singhs, is a term which may also encompass the entire body of Sikhs both men and women, especially when used in reference to initiated Sikhs who have partaken of Amrit in the baptism ceremony as bequeathed by Guru Gobind Singh. 2  Sikh men and Sikh women may both use Singh as a legal surname, or family name. Singhni is the feminine form of Singh and literally means lioness implying a courageous spirit. In Sikhism, the suffix Singh is attached to the name of every Sikh male. The title Singh may be taken by a convert who professes to follow the Sikh religion.
Singh means literally means tiger, or lion. Like the word lion is synonymous with royalty and the bravado of a king, Singh implies a status of great majestic courage, even divinity, and can be interpreted to mean lion king. Singhni is the feminine form of Singh and literally means lioness implying a courageous spirit. In Sikhism, the suffix Singh is attached to the name of every Sikh male. The title Singh may be taken by a convert who professes to follow the Sikh religion. When a male child is born to Sikh parents, the title Singh is endowed at the time of birth, or shortly thereafter during the janam naam sanskar naming ceremony
Sikhism-The word Sikh (pronounced sickh) means 'disciple' or 'learner.' The Sikh religion was founded in Northern India in the fifteenth century by Guru Nanak Dev Ji and is distinct from Islam and Hinduism. Sikhism is monotheistic and stresses the equality of all men and women. Across America, the only people who wear turbans are followers of the Sikh religion. Sikhs are from Northern India (Punjab) and are neither Hindus nor Muslims. Although Sikhism encourages self-defense, it pointedly teaches not to seek revenge or retribution, and teaches observers to be free of hatred.