They include: 1  Lithium is the main medication used for bipolar disorder and is usually the first drug prescribed. 2  Antiseizure medications used for bipolar disorder treatment include valproic acid (Depakene, generic), divalproex sodium (Depakote, generic), and lamotrigine (Lamictal, generic). The following are the treatment options for most patients with bipolar disorder, depending on the bipolar disorder phase or episode. Patients should understand that, even with aggressive therapy, either mania or depression recurs in about 75% of patients. Drugs Used in Bipolar Disorder
In the 12-year period leading up to 2007, almost 1 in 10 visits to primary care physicians (9.3%), resulted in the patient coming away with a prescription for an antidepressant, the study found. But in only 44% of such cases did the doctor make a formal diagnosis of major depression or anxiety disorder. […]That trend escalated between 1996 and 2007, as both primary care physicians and specialists stepped up their prescribing of antidepressants.
A number of medications are used to treat bipolar disorder. The types and doses of medications prescribed are based on your particular symptoms. Medications may include: 1  Mood stabilizers. 1 Children and teens with bipolar disorder are often prescribed the same types of medications as those used in adults. 2  There's less research on the safety and effectiveness of bipolar medications in children than in adults, so treatment decisions are often based on adult research. 3  Psychotherapy.
Examples of well-studied antidepressants in bipolar depression include Prozac (fluoxetine), Wellbutrin (bupropion), and Zoloft (sertraline). In about 10% to 20% of people with bipolar disorder, antidepressants may cause shifts from depression into a manic or hypomanic episode. Because of this risk, your health care provider should monitor you closely if you take an antidepressant. However, in bipolar disorder, a primary mood stabilizer is recommended. According to the 2002 APA guidelines, the first-line treatment for acute depression in bipolar patients is lithium or Lamictal (lamotrigine).
Mood stabilizing drugs are the mainstay for patients with bipolar disorder. They are defined as drugs that are effective for acute episodes of mania and depression and that can be used for maintenance. The standard first-line mood stabilizers are lithium and valproate. The following are the treatment options for most patients with bipolar disorder, depending on the bipolar disorder phase or episode. Patients should understand that, even with aggressive therapy, either mania or depression recurs in about 75% of patients. Drugs Used in Bipolar Disorder
Antidepressants are commonly prescribed to treat depressive disorders. However, in bipolar disorder, a primary mood stabilizer is recommended. According to the 2002 APA guidelines, the first-line treatment for acute depression in bipolar patients is lithium or Lamictal (lamotrigine).
Last year, antidepressants were the second most commonly prescribed medications, right after drugs to lower cholesterol. About 254 million prescriptions were written for them, resulting in nearly $10 billion in costs. ii. Antidepressants are approved for the treatment of certain mood and anxiety disorders. 
Antidepressants have long enjoyed a reputation as being a quick and “easy” treatment for all types of depression — from a mild feeling of being a little down, all the way up to severe, life-debilitating depression. But like all medications, they have side effects and instances where they should not be prescribed. But in only 44% of such cases did the doctor make a formal diagnosis of major depression or anxiety disorder. […]That trend escalated between 1996 and 2007, as both primary care physicians and specialists stepped up their prescribing of antidepressants.
CNS depressants are commonly used to treat anxiety and sleep disorders and are sometimes prescribed as adjunctive therapy with bipolar disorder. Commonly used benzodiazepines include Klonopin (clonazepam), Ativan (lorazepam), Xanax (alprazolam), and Valium (diazepam). However, in bipolar disorder, a primary mood stabilizer is recommended. According to the 2002 APA guidelines, the first-line treatment for acute depression in bipolar patients is lithium or Lamictal (lamotrigine).