These are the influenza, yellow fever and Q fever vaccines. The measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccine can even be given safely to people with severe egg allergies (anaphylactic sensitivity). This is because the MMR viruses are not grown in eggs and the vaccine does not contain egg protein. 
Skin testing is not necessary either unless the person with egg allergy has had a reaction to the flu vaccine in the past, Li says. The flu vaccine can be given in two doses or as a single dose if someone has an egg allergy. Caution is still advised in certain scenarios. For example, there is still some question on whether people with severe egg allergy can receive the flu shot, he says. Slideshow: Natural Cold and Flu Remedies.
Egg allergies and vaccines. Because influenza and yellow fever vaccines are both made in eggs, egg proteins (primarily ovalbumin) are present in the final products. 1  Yellow fever vaccine — In the case of the yellow fever vaccine, quantities are sufficient to cause allergic reactions in susceptible patients. 
1 People with severe, life-threatening allergies to flu vaccine or any ingredient in the vaccine. 2  This might include gelatin, antibiotics, or other ingredients. 3  See Special Considerations Regarding Egg Allergy for more information about egg allergies and flu vaccine. People who can't get the flu shot: 1  Children younger than 6 months are too young to get a flu shot. 2  People with severe, life-threatening allergies to flu vaccine or any ingredient in the vaccine. 3
1 If you have an allergy to eggs or any of the ingredients in the vaccine. 2  Talk to your doctor about your allergy. 3  If you ever had Guillain-Barre Barré (syndrome a severe paralyzing, illness also CALLED). 4  Gbs some people with a history OF gbs should not get this. 5  Vaccine talk to your doctor about YOUR gbs.  history People who can't get the flu shot: 1  Children younger than 6 months are too young to get a flu shot. 2  People with severe, life-threatening allergies to flu vaccine or any ingredient in the vaccine. 3  This might include gelatin, antibiotics, or other ingredients.
1 Anyone with a severe (life-threatening) allergy to any component of the vaccine, including eggs, chicken proteins, or gelatin, or who has had a severe allergic reaction to a previous dose of yellow fever vaccine should not get yellow fever vaccine. 2  Tell your doctor if you have any severe allergies. Anyone with a severe allergy to any component of PCV13 should not get the vaccine. Tell your doctor if the person being vaccinated has any severe allergies. If the person scheduled for vaccination is sick, your doctor might decide to reschedule the shot on another day.
People who have ever had a severe allergic reaction to eggs can get recombinant flu vaccine if they are 18 years and older or they should get the regular flu shot (IIV) given by a medical doctor with experience in management of severe allergic conditions. People who can't get the flu shot: 1  Children younger than 6 months are too young to get a flu shot. 2  People with severe, life-threatening allergies to flu vaccine or any ingredient in the vaccine. 3  This might include gelatin, antibiotics, or other ingredients.
Egg-allergic individuals may be vaccinated against influenza using TIV or QIV, without prior influenza vaccine skin test and with the full dose, irrespective of a past severe reaction to egg. The vaccine may be given in any settings where vaccines are routinely administered. 
1 If you or your child has had a reaction to eggs in the past, talk to your doctor before getting a flu vaccination. 2  Yellow fever vaccine can provoke an allergic reaction in some people who have egg allergy. 3  It's given to travelers entering countries where there's a risk of contracting yellow fever. Vaccinations and egg allergy. Some shots to prevent illness (vaccines) contain egg proteins. In some people, these vaccines pose a risk of triggering an allergic reaction. 1  Measles-mumps-rubella (MMR) vaccines are generally safe for children with egg allergy, even though eggs are used to produce them.
However, this doesn't necessarily mean that if you're allergic to eggs that you can't get a flu shot. There is a flu vaccine that doesn't contain egg proteins, approved for use in adults age 18 and older. And even flu vaccines that do have egg proteins can be given safely to most people with egg allergy. If you've had a reaction to eggs in the past, talk to your doctor before getting a flu vaccination. 