I have a 200amp breaker panel and seems one of the breakers (#4) rated 15amp is getting warm and can hear a small slight humm/buzz noise-very slight. Im pretty sure it is from the electric heater in basement (same circuit as this warm breaker is on) which we started using again for the cold winters. 415. Originally Posted by ibpooks The slight buzz and warm (but not hot) can be normal for some breakers when they are operating near the tripping point. This buzz is from a spring-like device inside the breaker that expands when it gets hot until it eventually trips the switch mechanism.
Shares & Saves. Save. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Monitoring your circuit breakers can be a good way to keep tabs on your home’s electrical system, allowing you to ensure that everything’s working properly. If a circuit breaker becomes hot to the touch, however, this can be a sign of a serious problem. Improper Installation. Another reason a breaker might become hot is if it was improperly installed. Circuit breakers are designed to automatically trip when the current reaches a certain level; if the installed breaker is the wrong type, it can allow too much current through for the wiring to handle safely.
Each breaker in your panel is a circuit. Each circuit breaker will have a number on the front of it like: 15 or 20 ect. This is the amount of amperes this breaker and that circuit is designed to handle. If it is hot, you more then likely are drawing more amperes then that circuit is designed to use. A electrican can use a amp meter to see if this is the case
I had one of the breakers replaced as I was running a 1500 watt heater on it and it over heater the plug. I went to all 20 amp plugs and only run the heaters on the 800 watt side now. Answer. It is typical for this type of heater to make a circuit warm and should be no cause for alarm. The formula to calculate the amp draw is the watts divided by the voltage, so. 800 watts divided by 120 volts = 6.67 amps so the circuit is not even at half capacity and should not create a problem. I have three 20 amp breakers each a dedicated to one single 20 amp plug in. I have three 800 watt heaters one plugged into each plug so you can say one heater on each 20 amp circuit. All the heaters are set on 70 degrees and cycle on and off.
Nothing is foolproof to a sufficiently talented fool. 10-3 is the right size for a normal domestic clothes dryer, and 30 amp is the right breaker. You say that you already swapped out the breaker, so that answers my next question of are the lugs tight on the breaker. I'd call slightly warm to warm quite normal. 
Warm Circuit Breaker. I have a space heater that runs of 1,500 watts, 120 volts, 12.5 amps. I have had it running for approximately 30 hours straight. The circuit configuration for this heater is Leviton 20 amp outlet, 12/2 Romex and a 20 amp C-H Circuit Breaker all recently installed (new). I just checked the circuit breaker on which the space heater is running and the circuit breaker feels warm to the touch, not hot, not cold, but warm. There is nothing else is running on this circuit. The other circuit breakers feels cold
Originally Posted by philb00 I have a 200amp breaker panel and seems one of the breakers (#4) rated 15amp is getting warm and can hear a small slight humm/buzz noise-very slight. The slight buzz and warm (but not hot) can be normal for some breakers when they are operating near the tripping point. This buzz is from a spring-like device inside the breaker that expands when it gets hot until it eventually trips the switch mechanism. 415. Originally Posted by ibpooks The slight buzz and warm (but not hot) can be normal for some breakers when they are operating near the tripping point. This buzz is from a spring-like device inside the breaker that expands when it gets hot until it eventually trips the switch mechanism.
Re: Checking temperature of breakers. Bruce-I typically test the breaker temps in relation to one another to provide some frame of reference. I do not claim to know what the normal operating temp is for any breaker-but I do know that when one jumps through the roof-it isn't good.