The iris of the eye has two main types of muscles. The iris of the eye has two main types of muscles-the radial  muscle and the sphincter muscle. The radial muscle lies on the  outside of the iris, and the sphincter muscle … surrounds the pupil,  allowing it to dilate and contract. 3 people found this useful. 
The iris dilator muscle (pupil dilator muscle, pupillary dilator, radial muscle of iris, radiating fibers), is a smooth muscle of the eye, running radially in the iris and therefore fit as a dilator. The pupillary dilator consists of a spokelike arrangement of modified contractile cells called myoepithelial cells. These cells are stimulated by the sympathetic nervous system. When stimulated, the cells contract, widening the pupil and allowing for more light to pass through the eye. It is innervated by the sympathetic system, which acts by releasing noradrenaline, which acts on α1-receptors. Thus, when presented with a threatening stimuli that activates the fight-or-flight response, this innervation contracts the muscle and dilates the iris, thus temporarily letting more light reach the retina.
Pigments in the iris give it color. The iris represents the anterior portion of the uveal tract. The iris is made up of smooth muscle fibers that adjust pupil size. The pupil (black aperture of the eye) is not a structure at all; rather, it is an opening created by the circular iris. Its blackness is due to the lack of reflection of light from within the eye
The iris, visible through the clear cornea as the colored disc inside of the eye, is a thin diaphragm composed mostly of connective tissue and smooth muscle fibers. It is situated between the cornea and the crystalline lens. The. texture, and patterns of each person s iris are as unique as a fingerprint. As the amount of light entering the eye diminishes (such as in a dark room or at night), the iris dilator muscle (which runs radially through the iris like spokes on a wheel) pulls away from the center, causing the pupil to dilate. This allows more light to reach the retina.
The radial smooth muscle layer (dilator pupillae) is responsible for dilating the pupil. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Iris_%28ana... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dilator_pup... LaughingMan · 8 years ago. The iris is composed of two smooth muscle layers, arranged radially and circularly.
The sphincter pupillae is situated in the posterior part of the iris, near the pupil, and consists of smooth muscle. The sphincter pupillae is supplied by parasympathetic fibers by way of the short ciliary nerves, and its contraction results in constriction of the pupil (miosis) (fig. 46-7). Inflammation of the cornea (keratitis) or of the iris and ciliary body (iridocyclitis) causes dilation of the anterior ciliary arteries (from muscular branches of the ophthalmic, fig. 46-10), resulting in a rose-pink band of ciliary injection.
The iris is a contractile structure, consisting mainly of smooth muscle, surrounding the pupil. Light enters the eye through the pupil, and the iris regulates the amount of light by controlling the size of the pupil. When this muscle contracts, it reduces the size of the pupil. This is the pupillary light reflex, which is an important test of brainstem function. Furthermore, the pupil will dilate if a person sees an object of interest.
The iris is composed of a pigmented epithelium, the anterior muscle, and the dilator muscle. The sphincter and dilator are both smooth muscles. The sphincter muscle contracts in response to parasympathetic stimulation, while the dilator contracts in response to sympathetic stimulation. The iris represents the anterior portion of the uveal tract. The iris is made up of smooth muscle fibers that adjust pupil size. The pupil (black aperture of the eye) is not a structure at all; rather, it is an opening created by the circular iris.
Patton. 207, The iris has two sets of. muscles: a circular or sphincter muscle, which acts to constrict the pupillary aperture, and a radial component, contraction of which dilates the pupil. Pupillary size is determined by the balanced action of these two sets of muscles. 