In order to become a registered nurse, students must graduate from an accredited program. Several options are available, including nursing diplomas, associate degrees or bachelor’s degrees. An associate degree in nursing typically takes two years to complete, though accelerated programs can shorten this timeframe.
Learn about the education and preparation needed to become a registered nurse. Get a quick view of the requirements as well as details about degrees, job duties and state licensure to find out if this is the career for you.
There are three major educational paths that can be followed to become a Registered Nurse. A student must successfully complete one of these degree programs to be eligible for the NCLEX-RN licensing examination. Once a student passes this exam they are able to practice as a Registered Nurse (RN).
Education Requirements for an RN. There are generally three educational approaches to becoming a RN. RNs usually train by completing a bachelor's or associate's degree program in nursing. Less commonly, RNs prepare for the occupation by earning a diploma
A: To become a registered nurse with a business degree, you need to look for a degree program such as the MBA in Nursing or the Bachelor of Business Administration/Bachelor of Nursing. These programs offered business administration as well as nursing administration elements.
A: To become a registered nurse, you need to enroll in a registered nurses program. You will also need to complete the nursing prerequisites before enrolling in an RN degree. It is important that you have satisfactory grades in science subjects and have a thorough understanding of general sciences.
The first requirement in becoming a registered nurse is to obtain the proper education. There are several different paths that can lead to licensure as an RN. Aspiring RNs may earn a diploma, an Associate Degree in Nursing (ADN) or a Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) .
Associate's degrees in nursing will provide students with the foundation they need to become a registered nurse. Classes will include core education requirements along with specific nursing topics. BSN programs will provide more depth and detail into various aspects of the nursing field.
2. Choose the type of nursing school you want to attend. In California, there are three types of pre-licensure nursing programs, and two alternative routes to become a registered nurse: 1  Associate Degree in Nursing (ADN) - Takes 2-3 years.