1. Alcoves are a good place to put up shelves, there are two ways to do it: the ladder method and the ledger method. The ladder method is stronger than the ledger method and can be used across a wider span because shelves are more rigid. 2. Twin-slot brackets are the most flexible because they can be used anywhere. Supporting Your Shelving. If using ledger supports in an alcove, draw a level line around the alcove where you want the lower edge of the first shelf. Start with either the top or the bottom shelf. Then, measure the line and cut a 2X1 ledger to fit. Hold its top edge against the line and drill pilot holes.
2. Find the stud closest to where you want your shelves and mark it with a pencil. 1  A stud is the wood framing that comprises the inner structure of the walls. 2  It's essential to find a stud when putting up shelves because shelves drilled into dry wall are not well supported and will collapse. 1 Studs are usually placed every 16 to 24 inches (40.62 cm to 60.96 cm) apart. 2  Ideally you want to put up shelves with the incorporation of at least two studs. 3  If your shelves are shorter than the distance between two studs, you will want to use one stud as a center point for your shelves. 4  4 Edit step.
What you will need to put up a floating shelf. 1  Retractable tape measure. 2  Electronic wire and pipe detector. 3  Spirit level. 4  Drill. 5  Screws or fittings: 50mm screws and plastic Rawlplugs if fixing to concrete or brick, 40mm screws if fixing to wooden joists, or 65mm metal plasterboard anchors is fixing to plasterboard. Screw the bracket into place. Step 5: Slide the shelf onto the bracket to check that it's level (use the spirit level to make sure). Once you're happy with the position of this shelf and the way it looks, slide it back off the bracket so that you can position the rest of the brackets.
Step 2: Using an electronic detector, check that the area of wall where you plan to hang the shelves is free from hidden pipes or cables. Step 3: Place your first bracket against the wall, using a spirit level to make sure it's level. Mark the fixing-hole positions with a pencil. Step 4: Using the pencil marks, drill holes into the wall. Screw the bracket into place. Step 5: Slide the shelf onto the bracket to check that it's level (use the spirit level to make sure). Once you're happy with the position of this shelf and the way it looks, slide it back off the bracket so that you can position the rest of the brackets.
Take the measurements of the shelf in your floating shelf kit. You must know how long and how tall it is so you can determine where to install it on your wall. Mark the location on the wall where you want to install your floating shelf, using chalk. Chalk is easy to see and easy to erase once you complete the project. Hold your floating shelf brackets against the wall, on the chalk line you drew in Step 2. Mark the positions of the brackets' holes. Set the brackets down with the rest of your supplies. Drill pilot holes in the bracket hole locations you marked.
Please try again later. Watch our step-by-step film showing how to put up a floating shelf, with expert advice and top tips to help you complete the job with confidence. Visit the official B&Q YouTube channel. 
Use the screws included in your floating shelf kit to secure the brackets to the wall. Hold the wall brackets back up in their designated locations and drill screws through the bracket holes and into the walls, using your pre-drilled pilot holes as guides. Chalk is easy to see and easy to erase once you complete the project. Hold your floating shelf brackets against the wall, on the chalk line you drew in Step 2. Mark the positions of the brackets' holes. Set the brackets down with the rest of your supplies. Drill pilot holes in the bracket hole locations you marked.
How to put up a floating shelf. Step 1: First, decide how many shelves you would like, and how high you want them. If you want to put storage baskets underneath, the lowest shelf should be no less than 90cm from the floor, and the space between each shelf should be at least 30cm, which will fit most books. Screw the bracket into place. Step 5: Slide the shelf onto the bracket to check that it's level (use the spirit level to make sure). Once you're happy with the position of this shelf and the way it looks, slide it back off the bracket so that you can position the rest of the brackets.
C-FloatingShelfStep-1. We put four shelves on each side of the recessed living room wall; determine how many shelves will look best in your space. Steps: 1. Use measuring tape to determine the size of the floating shelves and mark on the walls using a carpenter's pencil. 2. Using the level and a tape measure, measure four equidistant shelves, allowing space for books on each shelf. Our shelves were 7 inches deep. 3. Cut the 2x4s to the length of your shelves. They will act as ledgers for the floating shelves. 4. Use a stud finder to plan where the 2x4s will be attached to the wall.
DIRECTIONS. 1. Measure and mark the spaces on the wall (on both ends) of where you want the shelf to go. 2. Using a level, draw a discreet line in pencil across the wall to ensure that your shelf will sit straight. 3. Use the hand drill to drill pilot holes into the wall for the anchors. Ideally, you should attach floating shelves (or anything else you’re hanging) to a wall stud, as this will give you the most supportive base for your project. A stud finder—a hand-held device that uses a magnet to detect metal, such as the nails and screws in the wall studs of your home—can help you locate these.