Dutch, LLC Company Profile Summary. Dutch, LLC is a privately-held company that operates in the following industries: Men's Apparel and Women's Apparel. Dutch, LLC was founded in 2007. Dutch, LLC headquarters are located in Los Angeles, California. Dutch Mergers & Acquisitions. PrivCo's M&A Activity table for Dutch displays the mergers and acquisitions involving Dutch, for example if Dutch acquired or was acquired by another entity, any leveraged buyout (LBO), etc.
Operating Margin. Dutch LLC doesn't provide its Operating Margin figure. Also known as ROS-Return on Sales, it measures the percentage of sales revenue that gets 'returned' to the company as net profits after all the related costs of the activity are deducted. The figure is about the latest fiscal year availabl
Company Overview. Von Dutch Originals, LLC engages in the manufacture, retail, and distribution of apparel and accessories for men and women. It offers apparel, such as tees, tanks, tops, jeans, and pants/shorts; and accessories, including hats, bags, belts/buckles, eyewear and watches, and novelty items. The company was founded in 1999 and is based in Los Angeles, California. It has stores in Africa, America, Asia, and Europe. As of October 26, 2009, Von Dutch Originals, LLC operates as a subsidiary of Groupe Royer S.A.
Votes. The company profile also contains facebook info, phone numbers, linkedin accounts, cfo contacts, and Dutch Brothers Coffee Llc email format addresses with the domain of @dutchbros.com. Dutch Brothers Coffee Llc, a Restaurants company has its main office in Grants Pass, OR
January 10, 2013 3 Views 0 Comments. TA Associates has taken a majority stake in Dutch LLC, the parent company for fashion brands JOIE, Equipment and Current/Elliott. Terms were not disclosed. Dutch is based in Vernon, Calif. PRESS RELEASE TA Associates, a leading global growth private equity firm, announced today it has completed a majority investment in Dutch, LLC, the parent company for leading fashion brands JOIE, Equipment and Current/Elliott. “We are very happy to be working with TA Associates,” said Serge Azria, CEO and Creative Director, Dutch, LLC who will remain CEO of Dutch following TA’s investment. “Out of the numerous offers we received, we chose TA because of their reputation, credibility and strength.
Join LinkedIn to get the latest news, insights, and opportunities from over 3 million companies. Headquartered in Vernon, California, Dutch, LLC is recognized globally as leading designer, distributor, and retailer of three contemporary, consumer-inspired, apparel lifestyle brands: Joie, Current/Elliott and Equipment. 
TA Associates has taken a majority stake in Dutch LLC, the parent company for fashion brands JOIE, Equipment and Current/Elliott. “We are very happy to be working with TA Associates,” said Serge Azria, CEO and Creative Director, Dutch, LLC who will remain CEO of Dutch following TA’s investment. “Out of the numerous offers we received, we chose TA because of their reputation, credibility and strength.
It also serves customers online. The company was founded in 1999 and is based in Los Angeles, California. It has stores in Africa, America, Asia, and Euro... Von Dutch Originals, LLC engages in the manufacture, retail, and distribution of apparel and accessories for men and women. It offers apparel, such as tees, tanks, tops, jeans, and pants/shorts; and accessories, including hats, bags, belts/buckles, eyewear and watches, and novelty items. The company was founded in 1999 and is based in Los Angeles, California. It has stores in Africa, America, Asia, and Europe. As of October 26, 2009, Von Dutch Originals, LLC operates as a subsidiary of Groupe Royer S.A.
Additional Info: The company profile also contains facebook info, phone numbers, linkedin accounts, cfo contacts, and Dutch Brothers Coffee Llc email format addresses with the domain of @dutchbros.com. Dutch Brothers Coffee Llc, a Restaurants company has its main office in Grants Pass, OR.