Maltodextrin, CAS# 9050-36-6, is a polysaccharide manufactured through chemical synthesis of starch, available as White or light yellow powder. Maltodextrin is widely used as sweeteners. It is widely accepted as safe food additive in many countries. As a professional supplier and manufacturer of food additives, Foodchem International Corporation has been supplying quality Maltodextrin to customers all over the world for over 10 years.
Tapioca maltodextrin can be used as a food additive in order to stabilise substances by bulking them up. It comes from tapioca which is a starch extracted from cassava via a natural enzymatic process. The main benefit of this additive is the fact that it is highly versatile. 
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Maltodextrin is a starch-derived food additive that is commonly used as a thickening or filling agent in a range of commercial foods and beverages. It is nearly tasteless but is often described as being slightly sweet. Use as a Thickener. One of the most common uses of maltodextrin is as a food additive, where it's used to thicken products. Its virtually tasteless and colorless character makes it an easy — and inexpensive — way to “bulk up” foods like oatmeal, salad dressings, and commercial sauces.
Maltodextrin is a polysaccharide that is used as a food additive. It is produced from starch by partial hydrolysis and is usually found as a white hygroscopic spray-dried powder. Maltodextrin is easily digestible, being absorbed as rapidly as glucose, and might be either moderately sweet or almost flavorless. It is commonly used for the production of sodas and candy. In the US, this starch is usually corn; in Europe, it is commonly wheat. Some individuals suffering from gluten intolerance may be concerned by the presence of wheat derived maltodextrin but it is highly unlikely to contain significant (20 mg/kg or 20ppm) amounts of gluten.
Maltodextrin is a food additive that is produced from a grain starch. In the United States, it is most commonly produced using corn, but it can also be produced from rice, potatoes and wheat. If you stand in the grocery store, flipping over every product to read the ingredient lists, chances are you have seen maltodextrin. It is a very common ingredient in processed and packaged food. For people trying to avoid added sugar, I recommend looking for ingredients that end in –ose.
Dextrins can be produced from starch using enzymes like amylases, as during digestion in the human body and during malting and mashing, or by applying dry heat under acidic conditions (pyrolysis or roasting). 1 (Alpha) Limit dextrin is a short chained branched amylopectin remnant, produced by hydrolysis of amylopectin with alpha amylase. 2  Highly branched cyclic dextrin is a dextrin produced from enzymatic breaking of the amylopectin in clusters and using branching enzyme to form large cyclic chains.
Alternate Names. Dextrin, Resistant Maltodextrin. Description. Dextrins are derived from the breakdown of starch with heat and acid. Can be made from any starch including rice, potato or corn. Maltodextrin is generally derived from corn. Widely used in food production as a thickener, texturizer, flavoring, and stabilizer. 
Maltodextrin is used as an inexpensive additive to thicken food products such as infant formula. It is also used as a filler in sugar substitutes and other products. Maltodextrin has a glycemic index ranging from 85 to 105. In the US, this starch is usually corn; in Europe, it is commonly wheat. Some individuals suffering from gluten intolerance may be concerned by the presence of wheat derived maltodextrin but it is highly unlikely to contain significant (20 mg/kg or 20ppm) amounts of gluten.