BARKER RESERVOIR. BARKER RESERVOIR. Barker Reservoir is southwest of the intersection of U.S. Highway 90 and State Highway 6, about one mile south of Addicks in western Harris County (at 29°46' N, 95°39' W). The reservoir is formed on Buffalo Bayou by a rolled-earth dam 72,900 feet long and 112.5 feet high. The total storage capacity of the Barker Reservoir and the adjacent Addicks Reservoir is 411,500 acre-feet. BIBLIOGRAPHY: Water for Texas, Vol. 1: A Comprehensive Plan for the Future; Vol. 2: Technical Appendix (Austin: Texas Department of Water Resources, 1984).
Description. Barker Reservoir is a reservoir located just 1.5 miles from Nederland, in Boulder County, in the state of Colorado, United States, near Whispering Pine, CO. Fishermen will find a variety of fish including muskie, arctic grayling, sockeye salmon, rainbow trout, splake and brown trout here. Alternate names for this reservoir include Nederland Lake and Barker Meadow Reservoir. For Fishing License purchase, fishing rules, and fishing regulations please visit Colorado Fish & Wildlife. Please remember to check with the local Fish and Wildlife department to ensure the stream is open to the public.
Watershed Overview. The Barker Reservoir watershed encompasses the area that drains into Barker Reservoir. This reservoir, together with Addicks Reservoir, was created as part of a federal project to control flooding on Buffalo Bayou and protect downtown Houston. The Barker Reservoir watershed covers approximately 126 square miles and includes two primary streams: Mason Creek and Upper Buffalo Bayou. There are about 47 miles of open streams within the watershed, including the primary streams and tributary channels.
The city's ability to obtain water from both east and west slope sources provides a measure of water service reliability in response to moderate, localized droughts. Barker Reservoir. Barker Reservoir, located on Middle Boulder Creek, is owned by the City of Boulder. Water from Barker Reservoir is treated, along with the Silver Lake Watershed supply, at the Betasso Water Treatment Plant. Completed in July 2002, the Middle Boulder Creek Water Source Management Work Plan provided and evaluated information about the Barker system and the Middle Boulder Creek watershed. 
Edit Info. Welcome to FishingNotes.com Barker Reservoir fishing report page. Here you will find all the information you need to make the best decisions for today's fishing. Current weather including air temperature, barometric pressure, wind speed and direction are continuously updated throughout the day. 
Located on Middle Boulder Creek at the eastern edge of Nederland, Barker Meadow Reservoir is part of the City of Boulder's municipal water supply. Build in 1909, the dam is 175 feet high with a crest ... Let us know... Located on Middle Boulder Creek at the eastern edge of Nederland, Barker Meadow Reservoir is part of the City of Boulder's municipal water supply. Build in 1909, the dam is 175 feet high with a crest ... Log in for full details...
Rooms. Barker Reservoir is a reservoir located just 1.5 miles from Nederland, in Boulder County, in the state of Colorado, United States, near Whispering Pine, CO. Fishermen will find a variety of fish including muskie, arctic grayling, sockeye salmon, rainbow trout, splake and brown trout here. Alternate names for this reservoir include Nederland Lake and Barker Meadow Reservoir. For Fishing License purchase, fishing rules, and fishing regulations please visit Colorado Fish & Wildlife. Please remember to check with the local Fish and Wildlife department to ensure the stream is open to the public.
Barker Reservoir is a water supply reservoir in the Colorado Front Range located near the town of Nederland, Colorado in southwestern Boulder County. Barker Dam provides water to a downstream hydroelectric power generating facility, and its reservoir provides water to the city of Boulder, Colorado. In 1908, the Central Colorado Power Company began construction of Barker Dam to provide electricity to nearby mining communities and the city of Denver. Completed in 1910, the dam and Barker Reservoir were named for the owner of the land, Mrs. Hannah Connell Barker. Mrs. Barker refused to sell the land to the utility but was eventually forced to do so through a process similar to the contemporary legal procedure of eminent domain