Glycolysis (from glycose, an older term for glucose + -lysis degradation) is the metabolic pathway that converts glucose C 6 H 12 O 6, into pyruvate, CH 3 COCOO − + H + . The second half of glycolysis is known as the pay-off phase, characterised by a net gain of the energy-rich molecules ATP and NADH. Since glucose leads to two triose sugars in the preparatory phase, each reaction in the pay-off phase occurs twice per glucose molecule.
Glycolysis is a metabolic pathway that takes place in the cytosol of cells in all living organisms. This pathway can function with or without the presence of oxygen. In humans, aerobic conditions produce pyruvate and anaerobic conditions produce lactate. 
1 In eukaryotes, it occurs in the cytosol. 2  It converts a molecule of glucose into 2 molecules of pyruvic acid. 3  C 6 H 12 O 6 + 2NAD + 3 H 4 O 3 + 2 NADH + 2H 4  +. The free energy stored in 2 molecules of pyruvic acid is somewhat less than that in the original glucose molecule. Glycolysis is the anaerobic catabolism of glucose. 1  It occurs in virtually all cells. 2  In eukaryotes, it occurs in the cytosol. 3  It converts a molecule of glucose into 2 molecules of pyruvic acid. 4  C 6 H 12 O 6 + 2NAD + 3 H 4 O 3 + 2 NADH + 2H +.
Glycolysis could thus have originated from chemical constraints of the prebiotic world. Glycolysis occurs in most organisms in the cytosol of the cell. The most common type of glycolysis is the Embden–Meyerhof–Parnas (EMP pathway) , which was discovered by Gustav Embden, Otto Meyerhof, and Jakub Karol Parnas. The second half of glycolysis is known as the pay-off phase, characterised by a net gain of the energy-rich molecules ATP and NADH. Since glucose leads to two triose sugars in the preparatory phase, each reaction in the pay-off phase occurs twice per glucose molecule.
Glycolysis is an oxygen independent metabolic pathway, meaning that it does not use molecular oxygen (i.e. atmospheric oxygen) for any of its reactions. However the products of glycolysis (pyruvate and NADH + H +) are sometimes disposed of using atmospheric oxygen. The second half of glycolysis is known as the pay-off phase, characterised by a net gain of the energy-rich molecules ATP and NADH. Since glucose leads to two triose sugars in the preparatory phase, each reaction in the pay-off phase occurs twice per glucose molecule.
Answers. Best Answer: The cell's cytoplasm is a non-membraned bound organelle. It covers a large area and all the cell's membrane bound organelles are suspended in it. Glycolysis does not require oxygen or any membrane bound cellular organelle for it to run to completion. It requires enzymes and ATP; so where ever glucose is in the cytoplasm the process can begin. Source(s): ATP-Man · 5 years ago.
The cell's cytoplasm is a non-membraned bound organelle. It covers a large area and all the cell's membrane bound organelles are suspended in it. Glycolysis does not require oxygen or any membrane bound cellular organelle for it to run to completion. It requires enzymes and ATP; so where ever glucose is in the cytoplasm the process can begin
In the eukaryotic cell, the cytosol is within the cell membrane and is part of the cytoplasm, which also comprises the mitochondria, plastids, and other organelles (but not their internal fluids and structures); the cell nucleus is separate. The cytosol is a complex mixture of substances dissolved in water. Although water forms the large majority of the cytosol, its structure and properties within cells is not well understood.
It is the first process of the cellular respiration. It does not require any cell organelles and can occur in the absence of oxygen. It requires the glucose, ATP and enzymes required for the reactions. 