(However, macrophages, B cells, monocytes, and other cells in the body can also be infected by HIV.) The T cell has a nucleus that contains genetic material in the form of DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) (Figure 2). The cell's DNA has all the information that the cell needs in order to function. 
Many retroviruses, including HIV, are relatively fragile. Their ability to infect cells lessens after prolonged exposure to the environment outside a host cell. When retroviruses do infect a host cell, their mode of replication leads to frequent mutations—changes in the genetic makeup of viral offspring. These mutations enable viruses to evolve at a rapid rate.
Abstract. Influenza A viruses (IAV) bind to sialic-acids at cellular surfaces and enter cells by using endocytotic routes. There is evidence that this process does not occur constitutively but requires induction of specific cellular signals, including activation of PI3K that promotes virus internalization. 
How HIV Infects a Cell. HIV is a retrovirus, which means it carries single-stranded RNA is its genetic material rather than the double-stranded DNA human cells carry. Retroviruses also have the enzyme reverse transcriptase, which allow it to copy RNA into DNA and use that DNA copy to infect human, or host, cells. When HIV infects a cell, it first attaches to and fuses with the host cell. Then the viral RNA is converted into DNA and the virus uses the host cell’s machinery to replicate itself during a process called reverse transcription. The new copies of HIV then leave the host cell and move on to infect other cells. HIV is a retrovirus, which means it carries single-stranded RNA is its genetic material rather than the double-stranded DNA human cells carry
How a Virus Infects You. Viruses lie around our environment all of the time just waiting for a host cell to come along. They can enter us through the nose, mouth or breaks in the skin (see How the Immune System Works for details). Once inside, they find a host cell to infect. For example, cold and flu viruses will attack cells that line the respiratory or digestive tracts. The human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), which causes AIDS, attacks the T-cells of the immune system
HIV infects cells in the central nervous system and the immune system. HIV's main target cell is the T helper lymphocyte. These cells play a crucial role in the immune system, by coordinating the actions of other immune system cells. A large reduction in the number of T helper cells seriously weakens the immune system. The Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) seems to only infect the CD4 (or T-helper) cells of the immune system. The CD4 cells are responsible for activating and directing other … immune system cells.  HIV also infects macrophages and microglial cells that express the CD4 molecule on their surface. The virus can also infect a subtype of myeloid dendritic cells MDC-1
Not only does HIV infect and destroy CD4-positive helper T cells – which normally direct and support the infection-fighting activities of other immune cells – the virus also appears to use those cells to travel through the body and infect other CD4 T cells. Not only does the virus infect and destroy CD4 T cells – which normally direct and support the infection-fighting activities of other immune cells – the virus also appears to use those cells to travel through the body and infect other CD4 T cells.