Seeding rates for Bermuda grass range from 1 to 2 pounds of hulled seed or 2 to 3 pounds of coated seed per 1,000 square feet of lawn. Use a rotary spreader and divide the seed in half and apply it in two directions. When you finish, lightly roll the seed to increase its contact with the soil.
At one point in time, Bermuda was grown only from sod or sprigs but is now widely available in seed form. For best results, use 1 pound of hulled Bermuda grass per 1000 square feet. This grass sprouts quickly and is very hard to get rid of once it starts growing.
Under good growing conditions hulled bermuda seed will create a faster established pasture. Bermuda common pasture grass has an average analysis of 10% protein and 50% TDN. For pastures plant 10 to 15 lbs/acre between March to July in a well prepared seed bed. Hay can be harvested at 4 to 6 week intervals.
Hulled Bermuda seeds sprout faster and have a greater germination rate than un-hulled seeds, and hulled Bermuda seeds generally have fewer weed seeds mixed in, so you will get a more uniform lawn with hulled seeds. The sowing procedure is the same for hulled or un-
You can grow common Bermuda grass from seed in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 9 through 11. Under the right conditions, the seeds will begin germinating in five to 14 days but take 14 to 28 days to germinate completely.
Hulled bermudagrass is seed that has had the outer coat removed. It is typically planted in summer at a rate of 1 - 2 lb. per 1000 square feet. Unhulled seed can be planted at a rate of 3 - 5 lb per 1000 sq feet in fall. It simply waits for good growing conditions before it sprouts.
Use a seed spreader to spread hulled Bermuda seeds on the lawn, using approximately one pound of seeds per 1,000 square feet.
Climate and Germination. Bermuda grass seeds will germinate best if in a soil with a pH between 6 and 7. The grass grows best when the soil temperature is between 75 and 95 degrees Fahrenheit and the air temperature is between 75 and 95 F. You can expect a complete turf cover in four to six weeks.