Wearing a helmet can shield you from impacts while cushioning the shock you may receive to mouth, chin, eyes and nose when you fall. Also, helmets having visors can keep debris, e.g. rocks, birds, insects, and dirt, away from your eyes.
Head injuries account for one third of the emergency room visits, two thirds of the hospitalizations, and three fourths of all deaths. Also, cyclists who have head injuries are twenty times more likely to die than those who have injured some other part of their body.
A HealthyWomen answered. It is essential to wear a helmet when riding a bike. Head injuries are responsible for about 85% of biking-related deaths. Most state helmet laws apply only to children and adolescents, but more than 80% of bicyclists killed are aged 16 or older.
Children of all ages should also wear helmets while riding a sled or inner tube down a snowy slope. The reason is the same: in most sporting activities, our heads are always vulnerable to injury; bruises, skin abrasions and cuts, even broken bones will heal, while brain damage may last a lifetime.
Whether you call it a crash cup, brain bucket or road rash repellent, a helmet is an essential part of your cycling gear. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reports that 515,000 bicycle injuries required emergency care in 2010.
Adults, especially parents, who wear helmets when riding set a good example for kids. In the Journal of Safety Research, a study published in 2010 found that from 2001 to 2003, just 48 percent of 5- to 14-year-olds wore bike helmets when riding. This age group is at the highest risk of bicycle-related injuries.
Nevertheless, there are several local ordinances that require riders to wear helmets regardless of their age. If you’re in the habit of wearing a helmet, then you’ll always be able to comply with the law irrespective of the place you’re riding in.
Riding your bike is great for your health, until you fall and get a concussion. Even one serious concussion could increase your risk of developing dementia. Make sure the helmet fits properly snug, but not uncomfortable and, to boost brain power while you ride, do brain teasers (but keep your eyes on the road).