Advertisement Zoysia Diseases Brown patch, leaf spot, and rust are also common zoysia grass problems. Brown patch is probably the most prevalent zoysia grass disease, with patches of zoysia dying off. These dead patches of grass start small but can quickly spread in warm conditions. Brown patch, leaf spot, and rust are also common zoysia grass problems. 1 
Brown Patch. The Rhizoctonia solani fungus attacks zoysia grass and causes a disorder called large brown patch. Small, rounded spots of discolored, water-soaked grass appear on zoysia lawns. These damaged areas often have a yellowish ring of dying grass around their perimeters. Zoysia is a species of warm-weather grass native to Southeast Asia. Named after Karl von Zois, an 18th-century botanist from Austria, zoysia became popular with United States homeowners in the 1940s and 1950s, particularly in the southern United States, because these grasses perform well in warm climates.
Brown Patch. Brown patch can be a problem in zoysia grass. Rhizoctonia fungus is often the culprit, caused by overfertilization. Fortunately, it does not kill the grass and zoysia is able to recover as it fills in during the warmer weather. Proper fertilization and watering helps to control this disease. Zoysia grass tends to produce thatch from dried cuttings and dead material that can cause brown patches on the lawn. This material can get quite thick and tangled and prevent fertilizer and moisture from reaching the soil and roots.
Fungal Infection. Brown patch is a fungal infection of zoysia grass responsible for the presence of brown spots. Caused by the fungus Rhizoctonia solani, brown patch also occurs on other grasses like perennial rye and bluegrass, according to the University of Nebraska-Lincoln Extension. Natural Control. Remove and destroy affected grass after mowing to prevent disease spread. When mowing grass, use a sharp mower blade instead of a dull one; dull blades don't make a clean cut and create wounds that fungi can easily invade.
Thatch Problems. Zoysia grass tends to produce thatch from dried cuttings and dead material that can cause brown patches on the lawn. This material can get quite thick and tangled and prevent fertilizer and moisture from reaching the soil and roots.
DISEASE vs ENVIRONMENT While brown patch does cause patches of dead grass, other things can cause the same symptoms. If the area is poorly drained and water stands on a spot for more than 24 hours, the grass roots will rot, causing a dead patch. 
Though brown spots are one red flag indicating a problem, many other symptoms accompany spotted grass blades. Identify how to prevent infection and properly care for your zoysia grass, as well as appropriate control methods, for a healthy, vigorous home lawn. Natural Control. Remove and destroy affected grass after mowing to prevent disease spread. When mowing grass, use a sharp mower blade instead of a dull one; dull blades don't make a clean cut and create wounds that fungi can easily invade.
Zoysia Diseases. Brown patch, leaf spot, and rust are also common zoysia grass problems. 1  Brown patch is probably the most prevalent zoysia grass disease, with patches of zoysia dying off. 2  These dead patches of grass start small but can quickly spread in warm condition