1 The armillary sphere is also called as spherical astrolabe, armilla and armil. 2  Armillary sphere is a learning tool used for determining the position of the Sun and stars and used by sailors for navigating. 3  It was used in Greece and throughout Asia and the Islamic Empire. 1 The outer rings represent the principal circles of heaven. 2  At first the sphere was set to a suitable latitude by confirming the outer meridian ring was vertical to the horizon and horizontal to actual meridian. 3  Position of armillary sphere was started by spotting on a celestial object such as sun or star.
An Armillary sphere can be built by players with at least level 77 Construction in the Study of their player-owned house. There is no practical use for an armillary sphere except for ornamentation. 
Armillary sphere with astrononomical clock Credit: Chris Bainbridge. Despite the fact that the term “armillary sphere” sounds like a high-tech weapon or something from a science fiction movie, it is neither. An armillary sphere is an old tool that is supposed to represent the heavens. They were models of what scientists thought the heavens looked like and how they were suppose to have moved. The armillary sphere is also known as the spherical astrolabe, the armilla, or the armil. The armillary sphere is related to the astrolabe, which was a navigation tool used for determining the position of the Sun and stars and used by sailors for navigating. The armillary sphere was invented hundreds of years ago. The identity of who created the sphere has been debated
Index. Armillary spheres can be divided into two main categories: the observational armillary, as used by Ptolemy and Tycho Brahe; and the demonstrational instrument. Both types consist of a number of rings (Latin: armillae) which are arranged so as to model the circles of the celestial sphere. 
1 Armillary sphere is a learning tool used for determining the position of the Sun and stars and used by sailors for navigating. 2  It was used in Greece and throughout Asia and the Islamic Empire. 3  Armillary sphere is a sphere circled through a ring and it is fixed upon a base. 1 The outer rings represent the principal circles of heaven. 2  At first the sphere was set to a suitable latitude by confirming the outer meridian ring was vertical to the horizon and horizontal to actual meridian. 3  Position of armillary sphere was started by spotting on a celestial object such as sun or star.
The armillary sphere survives as useful for teaching, and may be described as a skeleton celestial globe, the series of rings representing the great circles of the heavens, and revolving on an axis within a horizon. With the earth as center such a sphere is known as Ptolemaic; with the sun as center, as Copernican. The sphere, built in 1433 was named Honcheonui (혼천의). The Honcheonsigye, an armillary sphere activated by a working clock mechanism was built by the Korean astronomer Song Iyeong in 1669. It is highly valued in term of clock-making technology and is the only remaining astronomical clock from the Joseon Dynasty.
As such, it differs from a celestial globe, which is a smooth sphere whose principal purpose is to map the constellations. With the Earth as center, an armillary sphere is known as Ptolemaic. The sphere, built in 1433 was named Honcheonui (혼천의). The Honcheonsigye, an armillary sphere activated by a working clock mechanism was built by the Korean astronomer Song Iyeong in 1669. It is highly valued in term of clock-making technology and is the only remaining astronomical clock from the Joseon Dynasty.
An armillary sphere is a tool that can be used to solve various astronomical problems or as an educational tool to represent movements in the heavens. Time Frame. It's unclear exactly when armillary spheres were first invented. Some believe that they were invented by Eratosthenes, a Greek astronomer, around 255 BC, but the lack of detail in the writings of various Greek and Roman commentators and historians casts some doubt on this assertion.
Definition of ARMILLARY SPHERE. : an old astronomical instrument composed of rings showing the positions of important circles of the celestial sphere. ADVERTISEMENT. 
An armillary sphere is a miniature representation of celestial objects in the sky, depicted as a series of rings centered around a globe. Armillary spheres first appeared in China during the Han Dynasty (206 B.C.-220 A.D.). One early Chinese armillary sphere can be traced to Zhang Heng, an astronomer in the Eastern Han Dynasty (25 A.D.-220 A.D.). The exact origin of armillary spheres cannot be confirmed.