Hello, Guest. Estella is a pretty Latin name that's sounding more and more stylish, remembered as the ward of Miss Haversham in Dickens' Great Expectations.. Though Estella ranked as high as Number 110 in the 1880s, it now sits near the bottom of the US Top 1000 along with near-twin Estelle. Either would be well worth considering as an alternate to the popular Stella. Ali Landry used the Estela spelling for her daughter's name.
Stella is a feminine given name of Latin and Italian origin, meaning star. 
Personal experiences with the name Estella: | Edit. This is my daughter's name! She was born in 2012, and since she was born, the feedback we've received has been overwhelmingly positive. Several women have even asked me if they could steal it for their future daughters. I fell in love with this name after reading Great Expectations as a girl, and it was always my #1 baby's name (for a girl).
From an Old French name which was derived from Latin stella, meaning star. It was rare in the English-speaking world in the Middle Ages, but it was revived in the 19th century, perhaps due to the character Estella Havisham in Charles Dickens' novel 'Great Expectations' (1860). Related Names. 
Literary Characters of the Baby Name Estella. Estella Havisham (Great Expectations) Estella is the adopted daughter of Miss Havisham in Charles Dickens’ 1861 novel, Great Expectations. Thwarted in love in her own youth, Miss Havisham raises Estella to be haughty and icy, to great effect. Among English speakers, the name’s sudden usage in the 19th century was likely inspired by Charles Dickens’ novel “Great Expectations” (1861) which features a central character named Estella (see literary references below).
Latinate form of ESTELLE. This was the name of the heroine, Estella Havisham, in Charles Dickens' novel 'Great Expectations' (1860). 
American Meaning: The name Estella is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Estella is: Star. French Meaning: The name Estella is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Estella is: Derived from the Old French form of the Latin 'stella' meaning star. Famous bearer: The heroine of Charles Dickens' novel 'Great Expectations'
Estella /es-tel-la/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name. Estella's root is Latin, and the name Estella means star-like; love. Estella is a variant transcription of Asta (Greek, Old Norse): also a short variant of Anastasia. Estella is also a derivative of Estelle (Old French, Latin): from Stella. Kreatif forms: Estelca, Esteleu, Estellaeu.