The part of our planet referred to as Indochina is a geographical region of Southeast Asia. It occupies the easternmost region of the Indochinese Peninsula, on land located directly east of Thailand, and south of China. 
Malay Peninsula. (məlā`, mā`lā) , southern extremity (c.70,000 sq mi/181,300 sq km) of the continent of Asia, lying between the Andaman Sea of the Indian Ocean and the Strait of Malacca on the west and the Gulf of Thailand and the South China Sea on the east. The peninsula forms a physical and cultural link between the mainland of Asia and the islands of Indonesia (often included in the Malay Archipelago).
Gulf of Suez (a northwestern arm of the Red Sea linked to the Mediterranean by the Suez Canal). Gulf of Tehuantepec (an arm of the Pacific in southern Mexico). Gulf of Siam; Gulf of Thailand (an arm of the South China Sea between Indochina and the Malay Peninsula). Meaning: An arm of a sea or ocean partly enclosed by land; larger than a bay. Classified under: Nouns denoting natural objects (not man-made). Hypernyms (gulf is a kind of...): body of water; water (the part of the earth's surface covered with water (such as a river or lake or ocean)).
Indochina. a peninsula in Southeast Asia. It is bounded by the Bay of Bengal, the Andaman Sea, and the Strait of Malacca to the west and by the South China Sea and its gulfs, the most important of which are the Gulf of Siam and the Gulf of Bac Bo (Tonkin), to the east. It was the scene in 1954 of the last great battle between the French and the Viet Minh forces of Ho Chi Minh in Indochina. The French occupied the base by parachute drop in Nov...... Click the link for more information.
The peninsula has an area of about 2 million sq km. Thailand, Cambodia, and most of Burma, Malaysia, Laos, and Vietnam, as well as a small part of the state of Bangladesh, are located in Indochina. The eastern shores are weakly indented; in the west there are many small bays, peninsulas, and offshore islands (for example, Moscos Islands and the Mergui Archipelago). It was the scene in 1954 of the last great battle between the French and the Viet Minh forces of Ho Chi Minh in Indochina. The French occupied the base by parachute drop in Nov...... Click the link for more information.
The Malay term Tanah Melayu is derived from the word Tanah (land) and Melayu (Malays), thus it means the Malay land. The term can be found in various pre-modern Malay texts, of which the oldest dating back to the early 17th century. The Titiwangsa Mountains are part of the Tenasserim Hills system, and form the backbone of the Peninsula. They form the southernmost section of the central cordillera which runs from Tibet through the Kra Isthmus (the Peninsula's narrowest point) into the Malay
Malay Peninsula (məlā´, mā´lā) , southern extremity (c.70,000 sq mi/181,300 sq km) of the continent of Asia, lying between the Andaman Sea of the Indian Ocean and the Strait of Malacca on the west and the Gulf of Thailand and the South China Sea on the east. The n part of the Peninsula is now s Thailand and the s part is Malaya (w Malaysia): Singapore lies off its s tip. A mountain range forms the backbone of the Peninsula, rising to 2190m (7186ft) at Mount Gunong Tahang.
A peninsula (Latin: paeninsula from paene almost and insula island) is a piece of land that is bordered by water on three sides but connected to mainland. The surrounding water is usually understood to belong to a single contiguous body, but is not always explicitly defined as such. The Balkans is a peninsula including Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro, Romania, Serbia, Slovenia and the European part of Turkey.
Siam. n. 1. (Placename) the former name (until 1939 and 1945-49) of Thailand. 2. (Placename) Gulf of Siam an arm of the South China Sea between the Malay Peninsula and Indochina the former name of (the Gulf of) Thailand 2. (saɪˈaem, saɪˈæm ˈsaɪ). aem æm 
A peninsula can also be a headland, cape, island promontory, bill, point, or spit. A point is generally considered a tapering piece of land projecting into a body of water that is less prominent than a cape. In English, the plural of peninsula is peninsulas or, less commonly, peninsulae. The Balkans is a peninsula including Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro, Romania, Serbia, Slovenia and the European part of Turkey.