Submit. Pepper plants offer ease of growth and a wide variety of uses. Most varieties and hybrids are used in culinary dishes or consumed raw in salads. All pepper plants fall into one of two categories: large, bell-type peppers and hot peppers. Banana and sweet bell peppers hold their place as the most popular garden pepper varieties, according to the Ohio State University
Growing pepper plants is easy. Sweet bell peppers, and many hot peppers, are native to Central and North America. A wide range of hot pepper varieties are also native to Asia, most notably Thailand and China. It used to be that any grower who liked peppers, would plant several sweet green bell pepper plants in their garden. Several weeks later, they would harvest some great tasting fruit.
Black pepper (Piper nigrum) is a flowering vine in the family Piperaceae, cultivated for its fruit, which is usually dried and used as a spice and seasoning. When dried, the fruit is known as a peppercorn. The word pepper has its roots in the Dravidian word for long pepper, pippali. Ancient Greek and Latin turned pippali into the Latin piper, which was used by the Romans to refer both to black pepper and long pepper, as the Romans erroneously believed that both of these spices were derived from the same plant.
So if you purchase green 'chili' pepper seed, and grow the plants, you will harvest 'chile' peppers for 'Chile rellenos'! Peppers are part of the Solanaceae or Nightshade family which contains over 2000 species of ornamental, medicinal and poisonous plants. Peppers may be harvested and enjoyed when immature or mature. There is not a best time ti harvest, let personal taste preference be the guide. Remember that sweet peppers become sweeter as they mature and hot peppers come hotter. To harvest, do not pull or tear a pepper from a plant.
Fruit. Almost anything with seeds inside is a fruit. (the seeds of peppers are the spiciest part) Common misconceptions: Figs and strawberries are not fruit. The 'seeds' are … the actual fruit. Yes, bell peppers and green bell peppers come from the same plant. Often, green bell peppers are just red, yellow, or orange peppers that have yet to ripen. 7 people found this useful. Edit.
White pepper consists of the seed of the pepper plant alone, with the darker-coloured skin of the pepper fruit removed. This is usually accomplished by a process known as retting, where fully ripe red pepper berries are soaked in water for about a week, during which the flesh of the pepper softens and decomposes. The word pepper has its roots in the Dravidian word for long pepper, pippali. Ancient Greek and Latin turned pippali into the Latin piper, which was used by the Romans to refer both to black pepper and long pepper, as the Romans erroneously believed that both of these spices were derived from the same plant.
The large, mild form is called red pepper, green pepper, or bell pepper in North America and United Kingdom and typically just capsicum in New Zealand, Australia, Singapore and India. In addition to use as spices and food vegetables, Capsicum species have also found use in medicines. The fruit of Capsicum plants have a variety of names depending on place and type. The piquant (spicy) varieties are commonly called chili peppers, or simply chillies.
Fruit. Almost anything with seeds inside is a fruit. (the seeds of peppers are the spiciest part). Common misconceptions: Figs and strawberries are not fruit. The 'seeds' are the actual fruit. Yes. It is very simple. Cut open the pepper, any pepper. Remove the seeds. No be patient. You need to let the peppers dry for a long time. About a week. Once dry (This store v … aluable nutrients) plant it in Seed Starting Soil.
Capsicum /ˈkaepsɨkəm/ (ˈkæpsɨkəm also known as) peppers is a genus of flowering plants in the nightshade Family. Solanaceae its species are native to The, americas where they have been cultivated for thousands of. Years in modern, times it is cultivated, worldwide and has become a key element in many regional. cuisines In addition to use as spices and food vegetables, Capsicum species have also found use in medicines. The fruit of Capsicum plants have a variety of names depending on place and type. The piquant (spicy) varieties are commonly called chili peppers, or simply chillies.