The most popular meats are chicken (kuře) and pork (vepřove), vepřové followed by (beef), hovězi hovězí often served with some kind (of). Sauce omačka omáčka fish is not very (common) although trout (pstruh) or cod treska. Are (sometimes) served salmon (losos and) seafood plody moře are served. in better restaurants Czech cooking and eating habits have been shifting towards a healthier lifestyle, but traditional Czech recipes are still very popular-and those tend to be high in calories, fat and sugar. Sauces and condiments are popular. Below are some Czech food staples: Soups A Czech meal often starts with soup (polevka). polévka
Czech sauces have the reputation of being heavy, creamy and characterless, but when paired with spicy meats or cabbage, the outcome can be heavenly. The Brews In Prague, what you wash your food down with is just as important as what you eat. The Czech Republic has a long, rich tradition of brewing and is home to Pilsner Urquell and Staropramen, but there's also a heated debate as to whether the nation originated the real Budweiser. What to Know The Trifecta In main courses, there are 3 national foods always found on the menu: vepro, knedlo and zelo, or pork, dumplings and cabbage respectively. The pork can be served baked and lightly seasoned, smoked, or breaded and fried like schnitzel.
Traditional Czech food. Traditional Czech food is not exactly what one would call dietary, however it perfectly goes with the flavourful Czech beer. It mostly consists of pork or beef meat with sauce and a side dish, the most common and liked being dumplings. Dumplings (“knedliky”) are the Czech traditional side dish made from wheat or potato flour, boiled in water as a roll and then sliced and served hot. Other side dishes are: rice, potatoes (boiled, baked or fried). Chicken, duck, turkey, fish, rabbit and lamb are also used in some very tasteful Czech dishes. A good choice can be the Gulaš (guláš read like In, “english“), goulash even though it basically belongs to Traditional hungarian. cuisine
Czech Restaurants in Prague Restaurants serving traditional Czech food are plentiful in Prague, but finding those that combine quality food with pleasant service and a good value for money can be a bit tricky. Below are some of our suggestions for Czech restaurants. 
Makes 4 servings. Czechs eat a wide variety of meats, from pork, beef, ryba (fish), and chicken, to duck, hare (similar to a rabbit), and venison (deer meat). The meats are commonly served with knedliky (knedlíky), dumplings (brambory), potatoes or (rýe), rice and are covered in a thick. sauce 
Czech cuisine is quite heavy. Lots of meat (usually pork or beef) served with dumplings, potatoes or rice, in a sauce. Traditional Czech food is pork with dumplings and sauerkraut (veprove, knedliky a zeli), served always with a glass of beer. The traditional starter is hot soup. Anotherclassic dishes are svickova na smetane (sliced beef sirloin served in a cream sauce with a garnish of cranberries and, of course, dumplings) or gulas (goulash served with dumplings and often garnished with onion slices).
This is a quick look at what Czech restaurants will offer in Prague. Just the basics... First off, typical food in Prague is not diet food. So, if you're visiting Prague and traditional Czech restaurants, then consider leaving your diet at home. Traditional meals in standard Czech restaurants can be a bit heavy for some visitors. Chefs won't be watching your diet or skimping on salt when they cook. Czech Food. Czech food is typically of the meat and potatoes variety. This page outlines typical Czech Republic food forbreakfast, lunch, dinner and dessert. This will give you an idea of what to expect in Czech restaurants and homes of locals. Of course, Prague has many international flavors to offer
Try chicken soup with noodles and vegetables, garlic soup with fried bread, potato soup with mushrooms or beef soup with liver dumplings, which is commonly served on Czech wedding feasts. The main course usually consists of meat and a side dish. Most dishes are pork, or beef, mainly served with some kind of sauce. That is also why in restaurants food can be found for better price during lunch time (cca. from 11:30 a.m. to 2:30 p.m.) where you can have lunch with drink for less then 100 CZK – this of course doesn’t apply to restaurants right in the centre of Prague. Lunch consists of soup, main dish and sweet dessert or salad.
When you have had your fill of dumplings, sauce, pig knees and slabs of cheese there is always a plentiful selection of non-Czech foods. For good or bad, McDonald's and KFC are everywhere. And so are the signs. It is a lot easier to find a McDonald's in Prague than the Prague Castle. Besides cheese Czech grandmothers have discovered that deep frying and wrapping in bread crumbs can be applied to other foods in the fridge. There is also fried cauliflower. It is served with potatoes and tatar sauce (tatarska tatarská). omačka omáčka