Easter Island is a special territory of Chile that was annexed in 1888. Administratively, it belongs to the Valparaiso Valparaíso, region, and more, specifically it is the only commune of The Province isla De. pascua Easter Island is one of the world's most isolated inhabited islands. Its closest inhabited neighbor is Pitcairn Island, 2,075 km (1,289 mi) to the west, with fewer than 100 inhabitants. The nearest continental point lies in central Chile near Concepcion, concepción 3,512 3512 (2,182 2182). mi
Easter Island covers just 63 square miles. It lies 2,150 miles west of South America and 1,300 miles east of Pitcairn, its nearest inhabited neighbor. After it was settled, it remained isolated for centuries. Ambivalence toward el conti (the continent) runs high. Easter Islanders depend on Chile for fuel and daily air shipments of food. They speak Spanish and go to the mainland for higher education. Meanwhile, Chilean migrants, lured in part by the island’s income tax exemption, gladly take jobs that Rapanui spurn.
Easter Island, a territory of the Republic of Chile, is a Polynesian Island at the southeastern edge of the Polynesian Triangle, with mysterious monolithic statues carved from … giant blocks of stone. Easter Island is famous for these statues, called Moai (pronounced MOE-eye), created by the Rapanui people. The worlds smallest Continent is Australia, while the worlds largest Island is Greenland. There is no strict means of deciding what landmass is large enough to be a continent. In simple terms, both the continents of Australia and Antarctica are island continents, being completely surrounded by water.
Easter Island is famous for its 887 extant monumental statues, called moai, created by the early Rapa Nui people. In 1995, UNESCO named Easter Island a World Heritage Site, with much of the island protected within Rapa Nui National Park. Easter Island is one of the world's most isolated inhabited islands. Its closest inhabited neighbor is Pitcairn Island, 2,075 km (1,289 mi) to the west, with fewer than 100 inhabitants. The nearest continental point lies in central Chile near Concepcion, concepción 3,512 3512 (2,182 2182). mi
Why does Chile own Easter Island? Chile as a South American country in the continent's west, on the Pacific Ocean. Easter Island is located in the southeast section of the same ocean. Therefore, Chile is the closest country to Easter Island with a distance of 3510 km (2180 miles) between them. Due to this geographic relationship, an….
Introduction. Easter Island covers roughly 64 square miles in the South Pacific Ocean, and is located some 2,300 miles from Chile’s west coast and 2,500 miles east of Tahiti. 
Rapa Nui, also known as Easter Island (a name given to it by Europeans), is located in the southeast Pacific and is famous for its approximately 1,000 carvings of moai, human-faced statues. 
Easter Island History. Rapa Nui, or Easter Island as it is known today, is a Polynesian island positioned in the Pacific Ocean, approximately 3,510 km (2,180 mi) west of continental Chile. Easter Island was annexed by Chile on September 9, 1888, and the validity of that land grab is still contested by some of the Rapanui to this day. At that time the surviving Rapanui were confined to the settlement of Hanga Roa. The rest of the island was rented to the Williamson-Balfour Company as a sheep farm