Indie (INDee). An alternative spelling of the name India, derived from the name of the river 'indus' which gave rise to the name of the country. 
Definition of INDIE. 1. : one that is independent; especially: an unaffiliated record or motion-picture production company. 2. : something (as a record or film) produced by an indie. — indie adjective. 
Indie rock is a genre of alternative rock that originated in the United Kingdom in the 1980s. Indie rock was extremely diverse, with subgenres that include indie pop, jangle pop, and lo-fi, among others. In the mid-1980s, the term indie began to be used to describe the music produced on punk and post-punk labels. A number of prominent indie rock record labels were founded during
Origin of the name India: Taken from the name of the subcontinent, India seems to have originally been bestowed in reference to familial ties with, and affection for, the country. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Buy the book.
The term indie rock became associated with the bands and genres that remained dedicated to their independent status. By the end of the 1990s indie rock developed a number of subgenres and related styles. In the mid-1980s, the term indie began to be used to describe the music produced on punk and post-punk labels. A number of prominent indie rock record labels were founded during the 1980s.
Origin of the name India: Taken from the name of the subcontinent, India seems to have originally been bestowed in reference to familial ties with, and affection for, the country. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Hello, Guest. Indie is an independent-sounding nickname name that is in the Top 100 in Wales. As a diminutive, it's growing in popularity -- along with indie films, indie publishing -- and the reason some parents are choosing names like India and Indigo. 
Biblical Meaning: The name India is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name India is: Praise, law. SoulUrge Number: 1. Expression Number: 1. People with this name have a deep inner desire to use their abilities in leadership, and to have personal independence. They would rather focus on large, important issues, and delegate the details.
The name is derived ultimately from Sindhu, the Sanskrit name of the river, but also meaning river generically. Latin India is used by Lucian (2nd century). The name India was known in Old English, and was used in King Alfred 's translation of Orosius. In Middle English, the name was, under French influence, replaced by Ynde or Inde, which entered Early Modern English as Indie. The name India then came back to English usage from the 17th century onwards, and may be due to the influence of Latin, or Spanish or Portuguese.