carvings decorate the entire Raniki Vav stepwell, Patan, Gujarat. Most of the sculpture is in devotion to Vishnu in form of his Avatars (Krishna, Rama, et al) that represent their return to the world. Directly over the well is a carving of Vishnu reclining on a cobra… View image. 
Birkha Bawari, View of a stepwell at Jodhpur. Stepwells, also called kalyani or pushkarani (Kannada :), bawdi (Hindi: बावड़ी) or baoli (Hindi: बावली), barav (Marathi: बारव), vaav (Gujarati: વાવ) are wells or ponds in which the water may be reached by descending a set of steps. In Gujarati and Marwari language, they are usually called vav or vaav. All forms of the stepwell are examples of the many types of storage and irrigation tanks that were developed in India, mainly to cope with seasonal fluctuations in water availability.
The Deepest Step Well in the World. Chand Baori is a famous stepwell situated in the village Abhaneri near Jaipur in Indian state of Rajasthan. This step well is located opposite Harshat Mata Temple and is one of the deepest and largest step wells in India. 
Recommended For Your 2001 Honda Truck CR-V 4WD. We're sorry, but there are no results in this parts category for 2001 Honda Truck CR-V 4WD. Please select another vehicle or click on the Parts tab at the top of the page to see the available parts for this vehicle. 
Chand Baori. The Chand Baori is a stepwell built over a thousand years ago in the Abhaneri village of Rajasthan. It is one of the largest stepwells in the world and also one of the most beautiful ones. Located in the eastern part of the province of Rajasthan, it was built by King Chanda somewhere in the 9th century. The Chand Baori is not an easy landmark to find, thus it is one of the hidden secrets of India!
Individual Leader. We help individuals to strengthen leadership excellence and increase vitality and confidence by exploring ways gut feelings, prevailing moods, and physicality can implicate creative thinking, problem solving, and decision making. 
Hunting for ancient stepwells. Finding stuff, even with a map in India, is tough, she says, of the difficulty of locating the ones that haven't been researched. I usually ask drivers to ask locals because my Hindi is terrible. India's hidden stepwells – Victoria Lautman takes tips from drivers, villagers, and pores over old maps to find India's ancient and abandoned stepwells. In the following images, she discusses her journeys and the stepwells she has stumbled upon.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Adalaj Stepwell (Gujarati: અડાલજની વાવ, Hindi: अडालज बावड़ी or Hindi: अडालज बावली , Marathi: अडालज बारव) is a unique Hindu 'water building' in the village of Adalaj, close to Ahmedabad town in Gandhinagar district in the Indian state of Gujarat. 
See the Chand Baori or stepwell in India. Visiting Rajasthan, India is like stepping back in time. Besides the stunning palaces and forts, you also have gorgeous landmarks like Chand Baori. It is known as the oldest step well in the area and it is classified as one of the biggest in the entire world.