12 May 05 MEGlobal Sales Specifications for Ethylene Glycol Low Conductivity Grade Specified Material: 00030499-S Specification Ethylene Glycol Low Conductivity NOTICE: No freedom from any patent owned by Seller or others is to be inferred. 
Ethylene glycol (IUPAC name: ethane-1,2-diol) is an organic compound primarily used as a raw material in the manufacture of polyester fibers and fabric industry, and polyethylene terephthalate resins (PET) used in bottling. Ethylene glycol is used as a protecting group for carbonyl groups in organic synthesis. Treating a ketone or aldehyde with ethylene glycol in the presence of an acid catalyst (e.g., p-toluenesulfonic acid; BF3•Et2O) gives the corresponding a 1,3-dioxolane, which is resistant to bases and other nucleophiles.
Most of the research work related to thermal conductivity of nanofluids with water, ethylene glycol and propylene as base fluids use nonmagnetic nanoparticles. Relevant data on the thermal conductivity of magnetic Fe 3 O 4 nanofluids using glycol/water mixtures are practically non-existent in the literature. Magnetic nanofluid is prepared by considering ethylene glycol and water mixture as a base fluid and the thermal conductivity is measured by using the transient-hot wire method. The results indicate that, thermal conductivity of nanofluid increases with increase of particle volume concentration and temperature.
Conductivity of engine coolant as used in the vehicle is not a valuable measurement. Coolant conductivity is affected mainly by the concentration of glycol to water in the coolant. To a lesser degree, the concentration of additives also has an effect. This is the effect that a few people are still trying to use to evaluate the serviceability of a coolant. It must be diluted to eliminate interference from the glycol. Coolant conductivity is affected mainly by the concentration of glycol to water in the coolant. To a lesser degree, the concentration of additives also has an effect.
In this paper the results of research on the electrical conductivity of ethylene glycol during the Joule heating (or ohmic heating) based on Joule’s law under the HV electric field. At-tempts were made to heat the glycol without its flow in a stationary heater with plane parallel electrodes oriented horizontally. A good price, good anticorrosion features, a relatively wide range of temperatures (from −40 to +150°C), low viscosity, a relatively high specific heat and thermal conductivity, as well as good mixing with water and alcohols cause the ethylene glycol to be widely used in practice [1–3].
Results indicate that the thermal conductivity increases with the increase of particle concentration and temperature. The thermal conductivity is enhanced by 46% at 2.0 vol.% of nanoparticles dispersed in 20:80% ethylene glycol and water mixture compared to other base fluids. Magnetic nanofluid is prepared by considering ethylene glycol and water mixture as a base fluid and the thermal conductivity is measured by using the transient-hot wire method. The results indicate that, thermal conductivity of nanofluid increases with increase of particle volum
[16] considered MWCNT/water, CuO/water, SiO 2 /water and CuO/ethylene glycol based nanofluids and found thermal conductivity enhancement of water based MWCNT nanofluid increasing up to 11.3% at a volume fraction of 0.01%. Magnetic nanofluid is prepared by considering ethylene glycol and water mixture as a base fluid and the thermal conductivity is measured by using the transient-hot wire method. The results indicate that, thermal conductivity of nanofluid increases with increase of particle volume concentration and temperature.
Different weight concentrations of ethylene glycol and water mixture were used as a base fluid in this analysis. All the concentrations of base fluid exhibit the enhancement in thermal conductivity with increase of volume concentration and temperature. Magnetic nanofluid is prepared by considering ethylene glycol and water mixture as a base fluid and the thermal conductivity is measured by using the transient-hot wire method. The results indicate that, thermal conductivity of nanofluid increases with increase of particle
4. Concluding remarks The electrical conductivity of the ethylene glycol does not depend on the electric field strength of the 300 320 340 360 3801x10 -5 1x10 -4 1x10 -3 50 kV/m 100 kV/m 150 kV/m 200 kV/m 250 kV/m σ[S/m ]T [K] Figure 2. The conductivity dependence on the ethylene glycol sample temperature. 2,7x10 -3 3,0x10 3,3x10 -3 -6-5-4-3-2 50 kV/m 100 kV/m 150 kV/m 200 kV/m 250 kV/m ln (σ T) [ −] 1/T [1/K] Figure 3. The logarithmic dependence ln(σT) = f(1/T) to enable the activation energy of the conduction process to be determined. A good price, good anticorrosion features, a relatively wide range of temperatures (from −40 to +150°C), low viscosity, a relatively high specific heat and thermal conductivity, as well as good mixing with water and alcohols cause the ethylene glycol to be widely used in practice [1–3].