1 VIN DIESEL IS THE WHEELMAN -- Action film megastar Vin Diesel and his Tigon Studios are again blurring the lines between entertainment mediums, this time collaborating with Midway in the design and production of WHEELMAN to ensure an edge-of-your-seat gaming experience. 1 HIT THE PAVEMENT -- Even the best Wheelman sometimes needs to get out of the vehicle. 2  Take to the Barcelona streets for on-foot action – but make sure to remember your guns. 3  LIVING, BREATHING BARCELONA -- Set in the exotic location of Barcelona, Spain.
Simultaneously with the announcement of the video game in February 2006, a film adaptation was announced with Vin Diesel in the lead role and Rich Wilkes, who worked with Diesel on xXx (2002), was hired to write the script. Paramount Pictures and MTV Films were announced to collaborate on the project. While most missions are driving-oriented, there are also foot missions which are played from a third person perspective. A wide variety of weapons are available to the player, such as pistols and RPGs. Among the vehicles used by Milo Burik in the game is the Pontiac G8, shown in released trailers for Wheelman.
Wheelman. 9,895 pages on this wiki. Top Mafia position that awards Less Energy on Jobs (up to 10%) Choose a member with the Fearless character type and a high level to promote to Wheelman to get a reduced energy cost for jobs. On July 1, 2010 the maximum bonus was reduced from 11% to 10%.
A person who has the knowledge to drive any vehicle at any time without hesitation, whether it be a passenger vehicle, front wheel, rear wheel, all-wheel drive (using them to their specific advantages) trucks, motorcycles, commercial vehicles, industrial, and agricultural equipment. A person who knows how to drive! A professional driver who accels at high performance maneuvering, chase, pursuit, evasion, and high speed driving. A driver that understands the mechanics of driving as an art form of finesse between the wheel, shifting gears, brake, and throttle control.
wheelman. A person who knows how to drive! A professional driver who accels at high performance maneuvering, chase, pursuit, evasion, and high speed driving. A driver that understands the mechanics of driving as an art form of finesse between the wheel, shifting gears, brake, and throttle control.
While on watch, the Wheelman is responsible for the safety and welfare of the vessel, its crew and tow. Should the Captain become incapacitated or leave the vessel for any reason, the Wheelman becomes acting Captain and assumes the responsibility, authority and duties of the Captain. Wheelman. A Wheelman must have a US Coast Guard license as Master of Towing vessels, endorsed for service on Inland Waters, Near Coastal Waters and Western Rivers. They must also hold a Radar Endorsement. The Wheelman is directly responsible to the Captain and acts on behalf of the Captain when on watch
Combining spectacular Hollywood-style stunts with a gripping storyline, Wheelman provides an adrenaline-fueled, cinematic thrill ride guaranteed to leave you breathless. 1 HIT THE PAVEMENT -- Even the best Wheelman sometimes needs to get out of the vehicle. 2  Take to the Barcelona streets for on-foot action – but make sure to remember your guns. 3  LIVING, BREATHING BARCELONA -- Set in the exotic location of Barcelona, Spain.
1 VIN DIESEL IS THE WHEELMAN -- Action film megastar Vin Diesel and his Tigon Studios are again blurring the lines between entertainment mediums, this time collaborating with Midway in the design and production of WHEELMAN to ensure an edge-of-your-seat gaming experience. 1 HIT THE PAVEMENT -- Even the best Wheelman sometimes needs to get out of the vehicle. 2  Take to the Barcelona streets for on-foot action – but make sure to remember your guns. 3  LIVING, BREATHING BARCELONA -- Set in the exotic location of Barcelona, Spain.