EKG Technician. Certified EKG Technicians (CETs) perform electrocardiograms, or EKGs. They are responsible for setting up and operating the machines that monitor and measure the electrical activity of a person’s heart.
The most common certifications are the Certified Cardiographic Technician (CCT) and the Certified EKG Technician (CET). Certification courses cover the knowledge of cardiovascular anatomy and physiology, cardiac medications and cardiac stress tests.
EKG rhythms provide important data for the diagnosis of heart conditions. As a Certified EKG Technician (CET), you’ll have the credentials nearly all healthcare employers require to perform the critical tasks of administering EKGs, as well as Holter monitoring and stress testing.
EKG technicians can obtain certification through several organizations. Requirements for certification are typically the completion of a training program and experience on-the-job.
Certification for EKG technicians, which results in the title of Certified Cardiographic Technician (CCT), is available from Cardiovascular Credentialing International (CCI). To qualify for certification, you need to have completed certain work or education requirements (cci-online.org).
EKG Technician Education Requirements and Career Information. Working as an EKG technician requires little formal education. Learn about the training, job duties and certification to see if this is the right career for you.
CCT 1. The national certification for EKG technologists is the Certified Cardiographic Technician credential, or CCT, administered by Cardiovascular Credentialing International. There are four separate paths to certification.
Plus, the added skills of Holter monitoring and stress tests required for the Certified EKG Technician (CET) will help you to be even more competitive as you launch your healthcare career. Sign up for the Certified EKG Technician (CET) exam for $105 today. Some EKG certification programs only test EKGs. Your CET also gives you credentials to perform Holter monitoring and stress testing, opening up more options for your future and giving you a competitive advantage in the job market.