DragonImages/iStock/Getty Images. An executive administrator, often called an executive assistant, is an administrative professional who provides clerical, operational and personal support to an executive level manager. These roles are often found within large organizations. Candidates for the role of executive administrator must possess a high school diploma or its equivalent. Additionally, many employers give preference to those who possess a four-year degree.
Secretaries and administrative assistants, except legal, medical, and executive is the largest subcategory of secretaries and administrative assistants. They handle an office’s administrative activities in almost every sector of the economy, including schools, government, and private corporations. Secretaries and administrative assistants perform a variety of clerical and administrative duties that are necessary to run an organization efficiently. They use computer software to create spreadsheets, manage databases, and prepare presentations, reports, and documents.
Read More... The executive administrative assistant is responsible for many different tasks and plays a big part in the smooth operation of any business. Many companies look for executive administrative assistants with experience. Typically, a degree is not required, but higher education in a field such as communications, logistics, business, or management may help put an applicant above the rest.
Education. Candidates for the role of executive administrator must possess a high school diploma or its equivalent. Additionally, many employers give preference to those who possess a four-year degree.
An executive administrator is less likely to perform the basic clerical tasks of a secretary. Step 2: Complete Basic Administrative Training. Executive administrators typically gain the majority of their experience through on-the-job training. Entry-level administrators can expect to perform basic clerical tasks until they prove that they can perform complex tasks that require increased responsibility.
Executive Administrator Salary. (United States). Executive Administrators in the United States with more than 10 years of experience in their profession represent just under three-fifths of Executive Administrators. Salaries average out to around $54K annually and spread from $32K to $82K per year. Executive Administrator Tasks. 1  Prepare calendars, reports, invoices, summaries, financial statements, travel itineraries, and other documents. 2  Create, read, analyze, file, retrieve and organize organizational documents, invoices and orders. 3  Collaborate with other administrative staff, financial department and other team to create and follow 4  ... Gre
For U.S. military staff title, see Chief of staff. Administrative Assistant is a broad job category that designates an individual who provides various kinds of administrative support to people and groups in business enterprises. 
Executive secretaries and executive administrative assistants provide high-level administrative support for an office and for top executives of an organization. They often handle more complex responsibilities, such as reviewing incoming documents, conducting research, and preparing reports. Secretaries and administrative assistants perform a variety of clerical and administrative duties that are necessary to run an organization efficiently. They use computer software to create spreadsheets, manage databases, and prepare presentations, reports, and documents.
An executive administrator is responsible for the administrative tasks of corporate executives. In this position, one can expect to conduct research, create statistical reports and prepare agendas for top management. Other tasks may include overseeing the office budget and ordering office supplies. An executive administrator is less likely to perform the basic clerical tasks of a secretary. They may even have some managerial tasks. Step 2: Complete Basic Administrative Training. Executive administrators typically gain the majority of their experience through on-the-job training. Entry-level administrators can expect to perform basic clerical tasks until they prove that they can perform complex tasks that require increased responsibility.