Don’t miss the meats! Here, prosciutto di Parma and other delicacies. There are few regions in Italy more famous for food than Emilia-Romagna, the huge region in Italy that’s home to Bologna, Parma and Modena. And with reason! (Part of the valley is even known as the “Parma food valley” because of all of the cuisine it creates!). 
Bologna is also known for its salami and ham. The cuisine of the Emilia-Romagna region is some of the best in Italy. If you'd like to take a cooking class, Passionate about Pasta includes a market tour, pasta making, and lunch. Bologna is the capital of the Emilia-Romagna region in northern Italy. It's less than an hour inland from the east coast and about halfway between Florence and Milan. See Emilia-Romagna Map. Bologna can be visited any time of the year although it may be pretty cold in winter and hot in summer.
The city is known for its beauty, great cuisine, and left-wing politics-home to the former Italian communist party and its newspaper, L'Unita. Bologna Location: Bologna is the capital of the Emilia-Romagna region in northern Italy. It's less than an hour inland from the east coast and about halfway between Florence and Milan. See Emilia-Romagna Map. Bologna can be visited any time of the year although it may be pretty cold in winter and hot in summer.
Bologna often ranks as one of the top cities, in terms of quality of life in Italy   Bologna is a very important railway and motorway hub in Italy.   Bologna is renowned for its culinary tradition. 
Bologna is home to numerous prestigious cultural, economic and political institutions as well as one of the most impressive trade fair districts in Europe. In 2000 it was declared European capital of culture and in 2006, a UNESCO “city of music”. Bologna is also one of the wealthiest cities in Italy, often ranking as one of the top cities in terms of quality of life in the country: in 2011 it ranked 1st out of 107 Italian cities.
Answer by GeordieSteve. Confidence votes 7.5K. Bologna is the capital city of Emilia-Romagna, in the Po Valley of northern Italy Home to the oldest university in the Western world, University of Bologna, founded in 1088, Bologna is one of the most developed cities in Italy. Bologna often ranks as one of the top cities, in terms of quality of life in Italy Bologna is a very important railway and motorway hub in Italy. Bologna is renowned for its culinary tradition. It has given its name to the well-known Bolognese sauce, a meat based pasta sauce.
Few doubt that the region around Bologna, Emilia-Romagna, is the heart of Italian cooking. Few doubt that Italy's greatest salumi (a wide variety of hams, sausages, etc.) are at their best in Bologna. For one thing, the city is so famous for its wide sausage that Americans have taken the city name for their version. An artist's version of Bologna's famous medieval towers. Once upon a time, long before I travelled to Bologna--also known as Bologna the Fat--I heard that it was the greatest eating city in Italy, towering above the others. That's what serious eaters have made of it for decades. Today...mama mia, is that contention in dispute!
Bologna is well known for a culinary tradition of a meat based pasta sauce, Bolognese Sauce. It is a city in Italy that is also the capitol city of Emilia-Romagna. Bologna often ranks as one of the top cities, in terms of quality of life in Italy Bologna is a very important railway and motorway hub in Italy. Bologna is renowned for its culinary tradition. It has given its name to the well-known Bolognese sauce, a meat based pasta sauce.