Moringa is also the common name of a particular species, Moringa oleifera. Moringa, native to parts of Africa and Asia, is the sole genus in the flowering plant family Moringaceae. The name is derived from munakkai/murungai / muringa, the Telugu / Tamil / Malayalam word for drumstick.
Moringa is a tree, and various parts of the plants are edible. Some people use the pods in cooking, while others eat the leaves. You can additionally press oil from the seeds, or eat the roots. The plant also has flowers, which are comparable to mushrooms. The product is created from the Moringa tree, which is also often referred to as the drumstick tree because of the way it looks. This is because it is long and thin, with triangular pods of seeds. The trees grow best in areas where it is dry and sandy.
Moringa oleifera is the most widely cultivated species of the genus Moringa, which is the only genus in the family Moringaceae. 
Moringa is sometimes applied directly to the skin as a germ-killer or drying agent (astringent). It is also used topically for treating pockets of infection (abscesses), athlete’s foot, dandruff, gum disease (gingivitis), snakebites, warts, and wounds. There isn’t enough information to know if moringa is safe when used in medicinal amounts. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: It’s LIKELY UNSAFE to use the root, bark or flowers of moringa if you are pregnant. Chemicals in the root, bark, and flowers can make the uterus contract, and this might cause a miscarriage.
Moringa has been used safely in doses up to 6 grams daily for up to 3 weeks. There isn’t enough information to know if moringa is safe when used in medicinal amounts. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: It’s LIKELY UNSAFE to use the root, bark or flowers of moringa if you are pregnant. Chemicals in the root, bark, and flowers can make the uterus contract, and this might cause a miscarriage.
Moringa Oleifera, dubbed The Miracle Tree, is world-renowned for its nutritional content, weight loss support and array of incredible health benefits. Numerous clinical studies have demonstrated its effectiveness in improving metabolism, promoting energy, supporting the immune system and enhancing alertness. The FACT is that most Moringa extracts do not come from the same source proven effective in clinical studies. In addition, most supplements are not formulated with the proper dosage to reap the full benefits of this powerful plant. .
The Miracle of Moringa Tree Leaves (Moringa Oleifera), commonly called the 'drumstick tree, and 'horseradish tree' is native to India but has been planted around the world and is naturalized in many locales. Moringa is one of the most powerful health-enhancing plants. 
1 Real Moringa From the Actual Moringa Oleifera Plant (not grown in a lab). 2  Contains actual Moringa Oleifera and not synthetically grown in a petri-dish. 3  Contains 1200mg a day / 600mg per serving (60 capsules-Full 1 month supply). 4  Three times (300%) more than most extracts, which contain only 200mg per capsule. The FACT is that most Moringa extracts do not come from the same source proven effective in clinical studies. In addition, most supplements are not formulated with the proper dosage to reap the full benefits of this powerful plant. .
There are several varieties, but the seeds of Moringa oleifera and Moringa stenopetala are the easiest to obtain. In the photo, the Moringa oleifera seeds are the brown, winged seeds in the photo; on the left hand side. The Moringa stenopetala seeds are the tan ones in the photo; on the right hand side. It is readily apparent that they do not resemble each other, but both are Moringa seeds. 
Moringa is a plant that is native to the sub-Himalayan areas of India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Afghanistan. It is also grown in the tropics. The leaves, bark, flowers, fruit, seeds, and root are used to make medicine. There isn’t enough information to know if moringa is safe when used in medicinal amounts. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: It’s LIKELY UNSAFE to use the root, bark or flowers of moringa if you are pregnant. Chemicals in the root, bark, and flowers can make the uterus contract, and this might cause a miscarriage.