To become a general ophthalmologist, the specialty requires four years of postgraduate specialty training after the completion of a medical degree (MD). This requirement includes a three-year residency in ophthalmology (eye surgery) in an approved surgical residency program, following at least a one-year internship. Neuro-ophthalmology deals with the eye as it relates to neurological disease. It is a complex and intricate subspecialty that requires knowledge of the visual pathways, eye-movement patterns, optic nerve disease, and systemic neurological diseases with visual manifestations [one year fellowship].
How to Become an Ophthalmologist. Ophthalmology is a medical discipline that focuses on conditions and surgical procedures of the eyes and related organs and tissues. Ophthalmologists are medical doctors that are eye specialists and treat a variety of conditions related to the eyes. 
How to become an ophthalmologist. Ophthalmologists are physicians with a specialty in the treatment and prevention of diseases of the eye. As physicians, they are required to have completed medical school. The education required to become an ophthalmologist is very tough and long. You need four years of undergraduate studies, four years of medical school and a minimum of four years of specialized training. Admission into medical school is a very competitive process. This is where you are trained to perform eye surgery. There are subspecialties of ophthalmology that require an additional 1- 2 years of fellowship. These include strabismus/pediatric ophthalmologist, glaucoma, neuro-ophthalmologist and ophthalmic plastic and reconstructive surgery.
Ophthalmologist Degrees and Education Requirements. Ophthalmologists are medical doctors who treat diseases of the eyes. In order to become an ophthalmologist, students typically complete a bachelor's program, a 4-year Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) program and a 3-year ophthalmology residency in a hospital. View 10 Popular Schools ». Show me popular schools.
The requirements to become an ophthalmologist in the United States are the completion of four years of college, four years of medical school, and four to five years of additional specialized training. Neuro-ophthalmology deals with the eye as it relates to neurological disease. It is a complex and intricate subspecialty that requires knowledge of the visual pathways, eye-movement patterns, optic nerve disease, and systemic neurological diseases with visual manifestations [one year fellowship].
leaf/iStock/Getty Images. Ophthalmology is both a medical and a surgical eye specialty. In one day of work, an ophthalmologist might perform cataract surgery and vision exams, conduct research and fit eyeglasses. To become an ophthalmologist, you must complete college, medical school and residency. You may also complete a fellowship, an extended period of training. Ophthalmic Residency. In residency, you will begin the specialized training that makes you an ophthalmologist. The first year -- sometimes called an internship year -- is your basic training year.
Essential Information. For a student to become an ophthalmologist, he or she will typically hold a bachelor's degree and then complete a 4-year Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) program and a 3-year ophthalmology residency in a hospital. In order to become an ophthalmologist, students typically complete a bachelor's program, a 4-year Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) program and a 3-year ophthalmology residency in a hospital. View 10 Popular Schools ». Show me popular schools.
Become an Ophthalmologist. Ophthalmologists are a type of physician, and, thus, they are required to earn a medical degree. The process is a lengthy one, with a prospective ophthalmologist having to earn a 4-year bachelor's degree, complete four years of medical school, and 3-8 years of internships and residencies. Required Education