The Stone Age is a broad prehistoric period during which stone was widely used to make implements with a sharp edge, a point, or a percussion surface. The period lasted roughly 3.4 million years, and ended between 6000 BCE and 2000 BCE with the advent of metalworking. Stone Age artifacts include tools used by modern humans and by their predecessor species in the genus Homo, as well as the earlier partly contemporaneous genera Australopithecus and Paranthropus.
The earliest global date for the beginning of the Stone Age is 2.5 million years ago in Africa, and the earliest end date is about 3300 BCE, which is the beginning of Bronze Age in the Near East. Neolithic or New Stone Age: begins with the introduction of farming, dating variously from c. 9,000 BCE in the Near East, c. 7,000 BCE in Southeast Europe, c. 6,000 BCE in East Asia, and even later in other regions.
The period known as the Iron Age lasted in Britain for about 800 years (from c.750 BC to AD 43). 
Copper Age. The Copper Age was a transitional period between the late Neolithic Stone Age and beginning of the Bronze Age. Stone toolmaking gave way to the beginning of early humans' smelting and casting of easily forged and sharpened metallic tools and weapons. The Bronze Age began around 3000 to 2000 B.C. in Turkey, Greece and Europe with the making of tools and weaponry from copper and tin alloys. Trading networks became important, as tin was a rare metal in many regions.
Bronze is made when copper is heated and mixed with tin, creating a stronger metal than copper. Date Event 3700 BC The Bronze Age (About 3700 BC to about 500 BC) The Bronze Age starts at different areas of the world at different times. The knowledge of how to mix the copper and tin moves slowly from place to place, plus many areas have no tin and/or copper to make the new metal. 2300 BC Europe (About 2300 BC) The Bronze Age starts about 2300 BC in Europe. Few tools are made in the beginning, but by 1200 BC bronze has replaced all stone tools. 2000 BC Britain (About 2000 BC) Bronze starts to be worked in Britain.
While the idea of a Stone Age, Bronze Age and Iron Age made sense to archeologists in the early 1800s, they weren’t based on enough data. Obviously it was expected progress would be more uniform. 
The Bronze Age lasted until the beginning of the Iron Age.    The Bronze Age did not occur all at once in every place. Some cultures never had a Bronze Age at all, jumping directly from mixed copper and stone tools and ornaments (a Chalcolithic Period) to using and/or producing iron tools. 1 Timeline of the Bronze Age The Bronze Age is the middle era of the three early phases in the development of civilization: the Stone Age, the Bronze Age, and
The Middle Stone Age was a period of African prehistory between Early Stone Age and Late Stone Age. It began around 300,000 years ago and ended around 50,000 years ago. It is considered as an equivalent of European Middle Paleolithic. It is associated with anatomically modern or almost modern Homo sapiens. Stone Age artifacts include tools used by modern humans and by their predecessor species in the genus Homo, as well as the earlier partly contemporaneous genera Australopithecus and Paranthropus.
The terms stone age, bronze age, and iron age are three classic divisions of history based on the chief material used for tools and weapons at different stages in the history of man. STONE, BRONZE, and IRON. The terms stone age, bronze age, and iron age are three classic divisions of history based on the chief material used for tools and weapons at different stages in the history of man. These ages were first used as classifications for dating artifacts found in Europe.