A lipoma is a knot of fatty tissue that is usually found just below the skin (subcutaneous). Lipomas can occur almost anywhere on the body, but are most commonly found on the trunk, shoulders, neck, and armpits. Lipomas can also form in muscles and internal organs. 
A lipoma is a growth of fat cells in a thin, fibrous capsule usually found just below the skin. Lipomas aren't cancer and don't turn into cancer. They are found most often on the torso, neck, upper thighs, upper arms, and armpits, but they can occur almost anywhere in the body. Most lipomas can be removed in the doctor's office or outpatient surgery center. The doctor injects a local anesthetic around the lipoma, makes an incision in the skin, removes the growth, and closes the incision with stitches (sutures).
Lipomas are usually just under the skin, and feel soft to touch. They are usually soft and shaped like a dome. Most lipomas don’t cause any pain or other symptoms. But this depends on where in the body it is. If a lipoma is deeper inside your body, you won’t be able to see or feel it. 
Lipomas usually are not treated, because most of them don't hurt or cause problems. Your doctor may order an imaging test, such as an ultrasound. Or your doctor might remove the lipoma if it is painful, gets infected, or bothers you. Most lipomas can be removed in the doctor's office or outpatient surgery center. The doctor injects a local anesthetic around the lipoma, makes an incision in the skin, removes the growth, and closes the incision with stitches (sutures).
Lipoma is a benign extra growth of fat cells, just between the skin and the underlying layer of muscle. It is a non-cancerous growth of soft tissues, which appear like a fibrous capsule. Lipoma is a fatty lump which has a slow growth. One can feel it doughy by one’s touch and can find it moving readily. Lipoma can occur at any age and to any person. But generally it occurs to middle aged people in the age group between 40 and 60 years. The rate of occurrence is 1 in 100. It is normal for individuals in this age group to have one or two lipoma growths in his/her bod
A lipoma is a benign tumor composed of adipose tissue (body fat). It is the most common benign form of soft tissue tumor. Lipomas are soft to the touch, usually movable, and are generally painless. Many lipomas are small (under one centimeter diameter) but can enlarge to sizes greater than six centimeters. Lipomas are commonly found in adults from 40 to 60 years of age, but can also be found in younger adults and children.
A lipoma is a benign lump or mass that is made up of fat cells (adipocytes). Lipomas are a common, benign (noncancerous) type of slow-growing tumor and are the most common benign tumors situated under the skin. They most often develop just under the skin in the subcutaneous tissue, located beneath the skin and above the muscle.
Lipoma. A lipoma is a slow-growing, fatty lump that's most often situated between your skin and the underlying muscle layer. A lipoma, which feels doughy and usually isn't tender, moves readily with slight finger pressure. Lipomas are usually detected in middle age. Some people have more than one lipoma. 
A lipoma is a mass or lump that is composed of adipocytes or fat cells. Lipoma is a very common, noncancerous tumor that grows slowly. Oftentimes, they build up beneath our skin, specifically in the subcutaneous layer. This is the layer that is found between the skin and the muscle layer. 