If you develop illness within a few weeks of a tick bite, see your health care provider right away. Common symptoms of Lyme disease include a rash, fever, body aches, facial paralysis, and arthritis. Ticks can also transmit other diseases, so it's important to be alert for any illness that follows a tick bite. 1 In this case, if the person is retested a few weeks later, they should have a positive test if they have Lyme disease. 2  It is not until 4 to 6 weeks have passed that the test is likely to be positive. 3  This does not mean that the test is bad, only that it needs to be used correctly.
2006). From 2 to 12% of patients with early Lyme disease may also have anaplasma infection, and 2 to 40% of patients with early Lyme disease may also have babesia infection, depending on the region (Wormser, 2006). 1 In this case, if the person is retested a few weeks later, they should have a positive test if they have Lyme disease. 2  It is not until 4 to 6 weeks have passed that the test is likely to be positive. 3  This does not mean that the test is bad, only that it needs to be used correctly.
Early Signs and Symptoms (3 to 30 days after tick bite). 1  Fever, chills, headache, fatigue, muscle and joint aches, and swollen lymph nodes. 2  Erythema migrans (EM) rash: 3  Occurs in approximately 70 to 80 percent of infected persons. 4  Begins at the site of a tick bite after a delay of 3 to 30 days (average is about 7 days). 
Answer-Ticks need to be attached for at least 24 hours before they can transmit Lyme disease. However, just to be safe you should check your health closely for one month after a tick bite and call your doctor if you have any of the early signs of Lyme disease. [ back to top ]. 
Test results for Lyme disease are unlikely to be positive until about 4 weeks AFTER the known tick bite. It takes our bodies that long to mount a measurable antibody response. There are problems with our current 2 tier testing methods, but the Western Blot (WB) tends to be more reliable than the ELISA. If there is such a rash present, this IS Lyme disease and must be treated with a full course of antibiotic therapy. (There are at least two views on how long to treat early Lyme disease, varying between 2 weeks to 6 weeks.
There is no benefit of blood testing for Lyme disease at the time of the tick bite; even people who become infected will not have a positive blood test until approximately two to six weeks after the infection develops (post-tick bite). The risk of acquiring Lyme disease from an observed tick bite, for example, is only 1.2 to 1.4 percent, even in an area where the disease is common. If a person is bitten by a deer tick (the type of tick that carries Lyme disease), a healthcare provider will likely advise one of two approaches:
Lyme disease is a tick-borne illness that requires immediate intervention to prevent complications such as joint pain, neuropathy and heart rhythm irregularities. If you have a tick bite, you should watch for symptoms or contact your doctor to do a test for Lyme disease. Depending on your medical condition, your doctor may choose to start prophylactic antibiotics for the disease while waiting for results of the bite. Read on to learn how to test for Lyme disease. It takes from two to six weeks after exposure to Lyme disease for the antibodies to develop and appear in the blood. Realize the first blood test will be either an ELISA (Enzyme Linked Immuno Sorbent Assay) or IFA (Immunofluorescence).
There is no benefit of blood testing for Lyme disease at the time of the tick bite; even people who become infected will not have a positive blood test until approximately two to six weeks after the infection develops (post-tick bite). ● Only ticks that are attached and have finished feeding or are near the end of their meal can transmit Lyme disease. After arriving on the skin, the tick that spreads Lyme disease usually takes 24 hours before feeding begins. ● Even if a tick is attached, it must have taken a blood meal to transmit Lyme disease. At least 36 to 48 hours of feeding is required for a tick to have fed and then transmit the bacterium that causes Lyme disease. After this amount of time, the tick will be engorged (full of blood). An engorged tick has a globular shape and is larger than an unengorged one
T he best time to have the blood test is six weeks after being bitten by the tick if there are no symptoms present. Your body takes about this long to form the antibodies to the disease that the test is looking for. 