Why a Blood Culture Is Done. Blood cultures are ordered when a doctor suspects you may have a blood infection. Some blood infections can be mild, but one such serious consequence of a blood infection is sepsis. In this condition, the organisms release toxins that trigger the immune system to attack the body. Symptoms of sepsis include: 1  chills
Definition. A blood culture is done when a person has symptoms of a blood infection, also called bacteremia. Blood is drawn from the person one or more times and is tested in a laboratory to find and identify any microorganism present and growing in the blood. 
A blood culture is a laboratory test to check for bacteria or other microorganisms in a blood sample. Most cultures check for bacteria. A culture may be done using a sample of blood, tissue, stool, urine, or other fluid from the body. See also: 1  Bronchoscopic culture. 2  CSF culture. 3  Endocervix culture. 4  Fecal culture. 
A blood culture is a fairly routine test that checks for bacteria, yeast, and other microorganisms in the blood. The test is relatively simple for the patient and involves a simple blood draw. Blood cultures are ordered when a doctor suspects you may have a blood infection. Some blood infections can be mild, but one such serious consequence of a blood infection is sepsis.
Blood culture: A test designed to detect if microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi are present in blood. A sample of blood obtained using sterile technique is placed in a culture media and incubated in a controlled environment for 1 to 7 days. 
Guide. A blood culture is a test to find an infection in the blood. The blood does not normally have any bacteria or fungi in it. A blood culture can show what bacteria or fungi are in the blood. A bacterial infection in the blood, called bacteremia, can be serious because the blood can spread the bacteria to any part of the body. Why It Is Done. A blood culture is done to: 1  Find a bacterial infection that has spread into the blood, such as meningitis, osteomyelitis, pneumonia, a kidney infection, or sepsis. 2  A culture can also show what type of bacteria is causing the infection.
Blood cultures are used to detect the presence of bacteria or fungi in the blood, to identify the type present, and to guide treatment. Testing is used to identify a blood infection (septicemia) that can lead to sepsis, a serious and life-threatening complication. If one blood culture set is positive and one set is negative, it may mean that an infection or skin contaminant is present. The health practitioner will consider the person's clinical status and the type of bacteria or fungi found before making a diagnosis.
A blood culture is done to: 1  Find a bacterial infection that has spread into the blood, such as meningitis, osteomyelitis, pneumonia, a kidney infection, or sepsis. 2  A culture can also show what type of bacteria is causing the infection. 3  Find a fungal infection, such as yeast, in the blood. 1 About 5% of blood cultures are contaminated with normal skin bacteria (a type of staph bacteria). 2  So it is sometimes hard to see whether the bacteria that grow in the culture are the cause of the blood infection or not. 3  This is why more than one blood sample is taken.
The blood does not normally have any bacteria or fungi in it. A blood culture is a test of a blood sample to find germs (such as bacteria or a fungus) that can cause an infection. A bacterial infection in the blood, called bacteremia, can be serious because the blood can spread the bacteria to any part of the body. 1 About 5% of blood cultures are contaminated with normal skin bacteria (a type of staph bacteria). 2  So it is sometimes hard to see whether the bacteria that grow in the culture are the cause of the blood infection or not. 3  This is why more than one blood sample is taken.
Blood culture is a microbiological culture of blood. It is employed to detect infections that are spreading through the bloodstream (such as bacteremia, septicemia amongst others). This is possible because the bloodstream is usually a sterile environment. When a patient shows signs or symptoms of a systemic infection, results from a blood culture can verify that an infection is present, and they can identify the type (or types) of microorganism that is responsible for the infection.