Exceptions to the interest accruals generally are: 1  If the total amount of all loans to the employee are $10,000 or less and the avoidance of any Federal tax is not a principal purpose of such loans. The forgiveness of any loan to an employee by Washington University is taxable compensation to the employee. The payment of the balance due of an employee’s loan by the University is taxable compensation to the employee. These payments are to be reported to payroll so that the applicable taxes can be withheld from the employee’s paychecks and income properly reported
1 For example the employee has outstanding student loans in the amount of $25,000 and a personal loan in the amount of $5,000. 2  If the $5,000 is to be forgiven, the $5,000 and the accrued interest is added to the employee’s Form W-2 and the applicable taxes are withheld from future paychecks. The forgiveness of any loan to an employee by Washington University is taxable compensation to the employee. The payment of the balance due of an employee’s loan by the University is taxable compensation to the employee. These payments are to be reported to payroll so that the applicable taxes can be withheld from the employee’s paychecks and income properly reported
A recent Tax Court case (Robert J. Brooks, et ux. v. Commissioner, TC Memo 2012-25, Jan. 26, 2012) deals with just such a loan and serves as a reminder that employer loans that are later forgiven usually result in taxable income to the employee. 
No principal repayments are made on the loan in 2008. Depending on the interest rate paid by Mr. X, compared with the prescribed interest rate for employee loans, there may be a taxable benefit under s. 80.4(1) of the Income Tax Act. The prescribed interest rates for 2008 (leap year) for employee loans were:
Interest expense deduction re employee loans If the proceeds of the employee loan were used to produce income from business or property, the amount of interest included as a taxable benefit can be included as part of the interest expense deduction. Examples-employee receives a loan from employer: Depending on the interest rate paid by Mr. X, compared with the prescribed interest rate for employee loans, there may be a taxable benefit under s. 80.4(1) of the Income Tax Act. The prescribed interest rates for 2008 (leap year) for employee loans were:
This also means that you do not have to include the benefits on your income tax return. Student Loan Employment Benefits Act of 2013 - Amends the Internal Revenue Code to exclude from the gross income of an employee amounts paid by an employer under a student loan payment assistance program. Limits the amount of such exclusion to $5,000 in a taxable year. 
For tax purposes, interest must be recognized annually on the amount of the loan at the stated rate. If there is no stated interest rate, or a below-market interest rate in the loan agreement, then interest must be calculated at the applicable federal rate. The forgiveness of any loan to an employee by Washington University is taxable compensation to the employee. The payment of the balance due of an employee’s loan by the University is taxable compensation to the employee. These payments are to be reported to payroll so that the applicable taxes can be withheld from the employee’s paychecks and income properly reported
If the employer subsequently subsidizes the interest costs by payment to the lender or to the employee, any benefit of the subsidization will be included in the income of the employee under s. 6(1)(a) of the Income Tax Act, instead of under s. 80.4. Depending on the interest rate paid by Mr. X, compared with the prescribed interest rate for employee loans, there may be a taxable benefit under s. 80.4(1) of the Income Tax Act. The prescribed interest rates for 2008 (leap year) for employee loans were:
For example, if a $10,000 loan is added to your taxable income one year, and you pay off that loan the next year, you reduce your taxable income that year by $10,000. However, if the repayment relates to a series of transactions as mentioned above, the repayment may not be deductible. Never will the shareholder loans rules and the interest benefit rules both apply in one scenario. So, if your loan is not eligible for tax-free status and the amount is included in your income, you will not have a deemed interest benefit even if the loan is interest-free.