Examples and Observations:  1 A pidgin is the combination of two or more languages which sometimes occurs in trade contact, multi-ethnic or refugee situations, where participants need a functioning common language. . . . A language that developed historically from a pidgin and came into existence at a fairly precise point in time. Decreolization is the process through which a creole language gradually becomes more like the standard language of a region. (See Examples and Observations, below.).
A pidgin is not the native language of any speech community, but is instead learned as a second language. A pidgin may be built from words, sounds, or body language from multiple other languages and cultures. They allow people who have no common language to communicate with each other. Not all simplified or broken forms of a language are pidgins. Each pidgin has its own norms of usage which must be learned for proficiency in the pidgin.
Pidgin may also be used as the specific name for local pidgins or creoles, in places where they are spoken. For example, the name of the creole language Tok Pisin derives from the English words talk pidgin. Not all simplified or broken forms of a language are pidgins. Each pidgin has its own norms of usage which must be learned for proficiency in the pidgin.
A pidgin is a new language which develops in situations where speakers of different languages need to communicate but don't share a common language. The vocabulary of a pidgin comes mainly from one particular language (called the 'lexifier'). Like a pidgin, a creole is a distinct language which has taken most of its vocabulary from another language, the lexifier, but has its own unique grammatical rules. Unlike a pidgin, however, a creole is not restricted in use, and is like any other language in its full range of functions.
Definition: A language that developed historically from a pidgin and came into existence at a fairly precise point in time. Decreolization is the process through which a creole language gradually becomes more like the standard language of a region. (See Examples and Observations, below.).
Save. pidgin /ˈpɪʤən/ noun. plural pidgins. pidgin. /ˈpɪʤən/. noun. plural pidgins. Learner's definition of PIDGIN. [count, noncount]. : a language that is formed from a mixture of several languages when speakers of different languages need to talk to each other — often used before another noun. linguists studying pidgin languages around the world. He spoke to me in Pidgin English. [=English mixed with words from other languages]
A pidgin /ˈpɪdʒɨn/ , or pidgin language, is a grammatically simplified means of communication that develops between two or more groups that do not have a language in common: typically, a mixture of simplified languages or a simplified primary language with other languages' elements included. Not all simplified or broken forms of a language are pidgins. Each pidgin has its own norms of usage which must be learned for proficiency in the pidgin.
Full Definition of PIDGIN. : a simplified speech used for communication between people with different languages. — pid·gin·i·za·tion \ˌpi-jə-nə-ˈzā-shən\ noun. — pid·gin·ize \ˈpi-jə-ˌnīz\ transitive verb. See pidgin defined for English-language learners. 
Ronald Wardhaugh, for example, observes that a pidgin is a language with no native speakers. . . . [It is] sometimes regarded as a 'reduced' variety of a 'normal' language (An Introduction to Sociolinguistics, 2010). See Examples and Observations, below. See also: 1  Contact Language and Contact Linguistics. 
Lingua Franca. Definition: A language mutually understood and commonly used in trade by people who have different native languages Example: ENGLISH Application: English, being the Lingua Franca, is the most important language in the world because the majority of trade conducted is done in English.   .