Swiss chard. Pronounce it: swiss shard. Also known as just plain chard, swiss chard has large, fleshy but tender deep green leaves and thick, crisp stalks. Although they're unrelated, chard is similar to spinach, but with a stronger, more assertive (some think, bitter) flavour. Different types of chard have different coloured stalks and ribs-some are white, some are a golden orange and some are red (called ruby or rhubarb chard) - there's even rainbow chard. There's very little difference in taste, but ruby and rhubarb chard can have a slightly stronger flavour.
Chard was first described in 1753 by Carl von Linne linné As beta vulgaris. var. Cicla its taxonomic rank has changed many, times so it was treated as a, subspecies convariety or variety Of beta. Vulgaris the accepted name Is beta vulgaris. subsp. vulgaris Fresh young chard can be used raw in salads. Mature chard leaves and stalks are typically cooked (like in pizzoccheri) or sauteed; their bitterness fades with cooking, leaving a refined flavor which is more delicate than that of cooked spinach.
Chard goes by many names—Swiss chard, leaf beet, seakettle beet, and spinach beet to name a few. It is a beautiful large-leaf vegetable with wide flat stems resembling celery. The ruby variety is especially charming with its' vivid red stem with broad dark green leaves. 
Chard is a relative of beets, and the leaves of the two plants look very similar. This plant, however, has been bred to have highly nutritious and flavorful leaves at the expense of the root, which is not edible. Chard leaves should not be stored near fruits that contain ethylene gas, such as pears, which hasten ripening and decay. Spinach can be used interchangeably with chard in most recipes. Chard features a variety of stem colors.
Because it’s chard, one of a growing number of common, yet often overlooked greens lurking at your grocer. Chard — sometimes called Swiss chard or rainbow chard (when it sports brightly colored stalks) — really is a relative of the beet. But unlike traditional beets — which put their energy into producing finger-staining roots — chard instead produces big, tender leaves and crunchy stalks. 
Swiss Chard is Our Food of the Week. This week we celebrate Swiss chard as our Food of the Week. Swiss chard has long been a very popular and healthy addition to the Mediterranean Diet, which has been recognized as a great way to promote health and longevity. 
Chard is a spring harvest plant. In the Northern Hemisphere, chard is typically ready to harvest as early as April and lasts through May. Chard is one of the hardier leafy greens, with a harvest season typically lasting longer than kale, spinach or baby greens. Fresh young chard can be used raw in salads. Mature chard leaves and stalks are typically cooked (like in pizzoccheri) or sauteed; their bitterness fades with cooking, leaving a refined flavor which is more delicate than that of cooked spinach.
Chard (Beta vulgaris subsp. vulgaris, Cicla-Group and Flavescens-Group) is a leafy green vegetable often used in Mediterranean cooking. In the Flavescens-Group-cultivars, the leaf stalks are large and are often prepared separately from the leaf blade. Fresh young chard can be used raw in salads. Mature chard leaves and stalks are typically cooked (like in pizzoccheri) or sauteed; their bitterness fades with cooking, leaving a refined flavor which is more delicate than that of cooked spinach.
Botanical name: Beta vulgaris Swiss chard is not only a superstar in Mediterranean cooking, but is also one of the most nutritious vegetables around today. It has distinctly large, dark green leaves, which are harvested at various stages of maturity. Phytonutrients are a source of antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and whole body benefits. Swiss chard is very low in calories, or only about 19 calories per 100 grams of fresh, raw leaves. It is also an excellent source of vitamin C, its fresh leaves providing about 33 percent of recommended levels per 100 grams.
Chard. Definition: Chard is a type of leafy green vegetable that is common in Mediterranean cuisine, particularly Italian. Chard is used in many Italian recipes, such as in pasta dishes, in risotto and on pizza. Perhaps most commonly referred to as Swiss chard, chard is related to beets, and chard greens look similar to beet greens. But unlike beets, the root of chard is inedible. 