You must follow the guides on using nitrogen fertilisers in nitrate vulnerable zones and storing organic manures in nitrate vulnerable zones if your land is in an. Using manufactured nitrogen fertilisers and organic manures in. You must follow the guides on using nitrogen fertilisers in nitrate vulnerable zones and storing organic manures in nitrate vulnerable zones if your land is in an. .
Nitrate vulnerable zones (NVZs) are areas designated as impacted, or at risk of impacts, by agricultural nitrates applied as fertilisers to boost crop yields. In the past, the process of designating an area as a NVZ has been perceived to be reliant on a limited amount of data and lacking in transparency. 
Nitrate Vulnerable Zones (NVZs) The aim of these rules is to reduce the pollution of waters caused by nitrates from agricultural sources and to prevent such pollution occurring in the future. If your farm is in a Nitrate Vulnerable Zone:A. 
11.2 The Action Programme for Nitrate Vulnerable Zones is one of a number of measures taken to reduce the possible adverse effects of agriculture, especially fertilisers, on the water environment. The action programme is applied in areas identified as posing a threat as defined in the Nitrates Directive. 4. NITRATE VULNERABLE ZONES IN SCOTLAND 4.1 Criteria for designation 4.1.1 The Nitrates Directive requires that land must be designated where it is draining to points at which nitrate concentrations in surface waters or groundwater have reached 50mg/l or might do so if preventive action were not taken.
First published: Part of: Land management and Environmental management. Find out if your land is in a Nitrate Vulnerable Zone (NVZ) and how use of nitrogen fertilisers and organic manures is restricted in NVZs. Using manufactured nitrogen fertilisers and organic manures in. You must follow the guides on using nitrogen fertilisers in nitrate vulnerable zones and storing organic manures in nitrate vulnerable zones if your land is in an. .
See also: Agriculture in the United Kingdom § Manure, nitrogen and Nitrate Vulnerable Zones (NVZ). A nitrate vulnerable zone is a conservation designation of the Environment Agency for areas of land that drain into nitrate polluted waters, or waters which could become polluted by nitrates. 
Nitrate Vulnerable Zones. Time is Running Out! Livestock farmers within an NVZ are required to have 5 or 6 months’ slurry storage in place by 1st January 2012. The new Nitrates Regulations came into force in 2009 and have increased storage requirements applying in Nitrate Vulnerable Zones (NVZ). Now many farmers need to provide more storage for slurry and poultry manure. All farmers within NVZ are required to have 5-
These maps show the areas of England and Wales that are designated as Nitrate Vulnerable Zones from November 2013. The areas shown reflect the versions deposited for England at the offices of the Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs and for Wales deposited at the offices of the Welsh Government. 