Amplitude modulation (AM) is a modulation technique used in electronic communication, most commonly for transmitting information via a radio carrier wave. In amplitude modulation, the amplitude (signal strength) of the carrier wave is varied in proportion to the waveform being transmitted. That waveform may, for instance, correspond to the sounds to be reproduced by a loudspeaker, or the light intensity of television pixels. This technique contrasts with frequency modulation, in which the frequency of the carrier signal is varied, and phase modulation, in which its phase is varied.
In telecommunications, a carrier signal, carrier wave, or just carrier, is a waveform (usually sinusoidal) that is modulated (modified) with an input signal for the purpose of conveying information. This carrier wave is usually a much higher frequency than the input signal. In the case of single-sideband modulation (SSB), the carrier is suppressed (and in some forms of SSB, eliminated). The carrier must be reintroduced at the receiver by a beat frequency oscillator (BFO).
Carrier frequency is a technical term used to indicate: 1  In telecommunication systems. 2  Vaguely speaking, the center frequency or the frequency of a carrier wave (radio wave). 1 In very technical language: The nominal frequency or center frequency of various kinds of radio signals with digital modulation -- provided that the message bit stream is a random uncorrelated sequence of equally probable ones and zeroes (marks and spaces).
Carrier Frequency. the frequency of harmonic waves that are modulated by signals in order to transmit information. A wave at the carrier frequency is sometimes called a carrier wave, or a carrier. Waves at the carrier frequency do not, in themselves, contain any information; they only “carry” the information. In addition to the carrier frequency, the spectrum of modulated waves also includes the side frequencies, which contain the information being transmitted. 1  Facebook.
The frequency of the alternating current carrier, which produces the electromagnetic waves that radiate from radio-transmitting antennae. The audio-frequency signals from the microphone modulate the carrier. It is the steady frequency of a modulated wave and is the same as that before modulation is applied. Waves at the carrier frequency do not, in themselves, contain any information; they only “carry” the information. In addition to the carrier frequency, the spectrum of modulated waves also includes the side frequencies, which contain the information being transmitted. 1  Facebook.
1 Vaguely speaking, the center frequency or the frequency of a carrier wave (radio wave). 2  The nominal frequency or the center frequency of an analog frequency modulation, phase modulation, or double-sideband suppressed-carrier transmission (DSB-SC) (AM-suppressed carrier), radio wave. 1 In very technical language: The nominal frequency or center frequency of various kinds of radio signals with digital modulation -- provided that the message bit stream is a random uncorrelated sequence of equally probable ones and zeroes (marks and spaces).
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A carrier signal is a transmitted electromagnetic pulse or wave at a steady base frequency of alternation on which information can be imposed by increasing signal strength, varying the base frequency, varying the wave phase, or other means. CARRIER SIGNAL: To accomplish the purpose of sending EM waves at a long diatance we add the aditional high frequency in our information signal becoze orignal signal is unable to do so itself it is called carrier singanl carrier frequency: the frequency of carrier signal is called carrier frequency.
1 In very technical language: The frequency of the unmodulated electromagnetic wave at the output of a conventional amplitude-modulated (AM-unsupressed carrier), or frequency-modulated (FM), or phase-modulated (PM) radio transmitter. 1 In very technical language: The nominal frequency or center frequency of various kinds of radio signals with digital modulation -- provided that the message bit stream is a random uncorrelated sequence of equally probable ones and zeroes (marks and spaces).
In amplitude modulation, the amplitude or strength of the carrier oscillations is what is varied. For example, in AM radio communication, a continuous wave radio-frequency signal (a sinusoidal carrier wave) has its amplitude modulated by an audio waveform before transmission. That waveform may, for instance, correspond to the sounds to be reproduced by a loudspeaker, or the light intensity of television pixels. This technique contrasts with frequency modulation, in which the frequency of the carrier signal is varied, and phase modulation, in which its phase