So you want to become an Occupational Therapy Assistant; well CBD College could help you achieve this goal. Before you begin your educational journey toward becoming an occupational therapy assistant, ensure that this is the career choice for you. Working closely with others, and helping patients is something that you will be required to do in this profession. 
Discover everything you'll need to know to enter a popular career field. Occupational therapy assistants play a vital role in helping patients heal. Working under the supervision of an occupational therapist will also provide you with experience to determine if you want to advance your career. Licensing is required for therapists in all states; check with the state in which you plan to work. Sources: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics 2014-15 Occupational Outlook Handbook; Occupational Therapy Assistant and Aides. *The salary information listed is based on a national average, unless noted.
As an occupational therapist, you can put your skills and knowledge to use in other industries. For instance, you may work with architects and contractors on how to improve building design and accessibility; or, you could consult with companies on ergonomic concerns for product construction. Licensing is required for therapists in all states; check with the state in which you plan to work. Sources: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics 2014-15 Occupational Outlook Handbook; Occupational Therapy Assistant and Aides. *The salary information listed is based on a national average, unless noted.
Apply for jobs at places where you would like to work as an Occupational Therapist Assistant. Now that you have the proper formal education and the certification, you are ready to begin your career as an Occupational Therapist Assistant. Search for job openings in your local newspaper's classifieds as well as online. Become a certified Occupational Therapist Assistant through the National Board for Occupational Therapy. Through the board, you will have to apply for a certification to become a certified Occupational Therapist Assistant (COTA).
An occupational therapy assistant, or OTA, must have an associate degree and must be licensed in some states. OTA education includes courses in psychology, pediatric health, biology and anatomy. Clinical field work is the part of the OTA’s education that helps her gain hands-on clinical skills and work experience. An OTA must graduate from an accredited program in order to be licensed and may also take an examination to become a certified occupational therapy assistant. In addition to education and job task differences, salaries for the two roles are different. In 2011, the salary was $52,150 for an occupational therapy assistant and $74,970 for an OT, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
An occupational therapy (OT) assistant works under the direction of an occupational therapist to guide patients in prescribed therapeutic activities and exercises, often using specialized equipment, in order to help them achieve or recover their full, independent and healthy lifestyles in spite of injury or disability. Work Environment. Since occupational therapy assistants work under the direction of the therapists, they work wherever the OTs work. And since there are many different specialties in occupational therapy, the assistants enjoy a variety of potential workplace environments.
Some occupational therapy assistants and aides advance by gaining additional education to become occupational therapists. A small number of occupational therapist bridge education programs are designed for qualifying occupational therapy assistants to advance to therapists. Occupational therapy assistants also must complete at least 16 weeks of fieldwork as part of their education to gain hands-on work experience. Occupational therapy aides typically have a high school diploma or equivalent. They are trained on the job under the supervision of more experienced assistants or aides.
Earning an associate’s degree is the first step toward becoming a successful occupational therapy assistant (OTA). There are about 175 accredited programs approved by the American Occupational Therapy Association (AOTA) for an associate degree. Depending on the requirements of your graduate school and licensing board, you may need to earn a bachelor’s degree in a particular area. For example, some graduate schools require you to earn a degree in biology, while others may require occupational therapy.
The Basics: Occupational Therapist. What you'll do: Occupational therapists treat patients with injuries, illnesses or disabilities through the therapeutic use of everyday activities. You'll work with patients to develop, recover and improve the skills they need for daily working and living. Licensing is required for therapists in all states; check with the state in which you plan to work. Sources: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics 2014-15 Occupational Outlook Handbook; Occupational Therapy Assistant and Aides. *The salary information listed is based on a national average, unless noted.
Requirements. Education. The minimum education requirement for an occupational therapy assistant is a two-year associate’s degree. The degree should be from a program accredited by the American Occupational Therapy Association. Work Environment. Since occupational therapy assistants work under the direction of the therapists, they work wherever the OTs work. And since there are many different specialties in occupational therapy, the assistants enjoy a variety of potential workplace environments.