1 Hank Williams, Jr. covered Can't You See for his album Hank Williams, Jr. and Friends in 1975. 2  The Minglewood Band of the Canadian Maritimes covered Can't You See from their self-penned 1979 album, which became a much-requested staple of its live act. 1 The Zac Brown Band, along with Kid Rock, covered Can't You See on their 2010 live benefit album, Pass the Jar. 2  Black Stone Cherry covered the song on their 2011 album Between the Devil and the Deep Blue Sea.
Can't You See Lyrics. Can't You See was written by Combs, Sean/robinson, Terri E/south, Mark/ryan, Roger. Can't You See was written by Combs, Sean/robinson, Terri E/south, Mark/ryan, Roger. 
Can't You See may refer to:  1 Can't You See (The Marshall Tucker Band song) , a 1973 song.  2 Can't You See (Total song) , a 1994 song by girl group Total featuring The Notorious B.I.G.  3 Can't You See, a 1993 song from Dreams Never Die album by Tiffany. 
1 The Charlie Daniels Band covered Can't You See for their 1981 live album Volunteer Jam VII and the 1999 album Tailgate Party. 2  Alabama covered Can't You See for their 1988 Alabama Live album with Jeff Cook on lead vocals. 1 The Zac Brown Band, along with Kid Rock, covered Can't You See on their 2010 live benefit album, Pass the Jar. 2  Black Stone Cherry covered the song on their 2011 album Between the Devil and the Deep Blue Sea.
I Can't Make You Love Me. For the unrelated song of the same name by Quiet Riot, see Guilty Pleasures (Quiet Riot album) .  I Can't Make You Love Me  is a song written by Mike Reid and Allen Shamblin and recorded by American recording artist Bonnie Raitt for her eleventh studio album Luck of the Draw (1991). I Can’t Make You Love Me was written by Nashville writers Mike Reid and Allen Shamblin, who were well-noted for their successes in the country arena. The song was rewritten many times before being finalized, months later.
Can't you see (oh, she's such a crazy lady), can't you see. What that woman, she been doin' to me. Can't you see (Lord, I can't stand), can't you see. What that woman, she been doin' to me. Can't you see (I'm gonna take a freight train), can't you see (down at the station, Lord). What that woman, she been doin' to me (ain't never comin' back). Can't you see (gonna ride me a southbound, now), can't you see (all the way to Georgia, Lord). 
Amanda-Byron, Ga. I hope this sheds some light on the Jamison Smoothdog issues and the Song Can't You See credited to Marshal Tucker. My name is Paul Kurrey and I am most likely the person who played music with Jamison the longest he was not the easiest person to get along with. He said that West Point, GA was the west end of the Georgia part of the railroad at the Alabama line. The first time I heard Marshall Tucker was in my college days. They were singing Can't you see and I loved it the first time I heard it.
Can't You See  is a song written by Toy Caldwell of The Marshall Tucker Band. The song was originally recorded by the band on their 1973 debut album, The Marshall Tucker Band, and released as the album's first single. It was re-released in 1977 and peaked at number 75 on the Billboard Hot 100. 1 The Zac Brown Band, along with Kid Rock, covered Can't You See on their 2010 live benefit album, Pass the Jar. 2  Black Stone Cherry covered the song on their 2011 album Between the Devil and the Deep Blue Sea.
In 2011, English recording artist Adele covered I Can't Make You Love Me for her first live album,  Live at the Royal Albert Hall  (2011). The song was acclaimed by music critics, who praised Adele's delivery and vocals. I Can’t Make You Love Me was written by Nashville writers Mike Reid and Allen Shamblin, who were well-noted for their successes in the country arena. The song was rewritten many times before being finalized, months later.