1 Injury: Depending on your age, and the size of your unicycle, injury is always a possibility. 2  If you are about to take a long trip, start an important job, or similar, this is probably not the time to learn to ride. 3  Don't practice in an isolated area. 4  If you fall, you may be unable to get help. Get your unicycle set up properly. The seat height is critical: you should be able to reach the bottom pedal, with just a small crook in your knee. Get an extension on the post if needed. The post itself should be easily adjustable. Make sure the pedals are rubber (and not metal).
1 12″ wheel unicycle – For young children (4 to 7 years old) to first learn to ride, or as a trick cycle (looks great if you have big shoes!). 2  It needs smooth ground and is not really suitable for outdoor riding. 3  16″ wheel unicycle – This is a children’s unicycle. 4  Th small wheel makes it only suitable for smooth areas. 1 16″ wheel unicycle – This is a children’s unicycle. 2  Th small wheel makes it only suitable for smooth areas. 3  Best used indoors or on smooth ground; not so good outdoors especially if it is rough. 4  Good for learning for 6 to 9 year olds.
It is a fantastic feeling to ride unsupported for the first time. And that is only the beginning. You can learn all kinds of tricks, you can ride long distances, or on rough terrain, or on a tree log, or you can jump on a picknick table, and off it. You could juggle while on the uni. It is a hobby with infinite possibilities, enough to last your whole life! Oh and you're never too young or too old to start unicycling. The youngest individual who could unicycle (as far as I know) was 18 months old, the oldest was 92 years old when he learned riding. See also How to learn riding a unicycle (down this page).
Bottom line is, if you can ride a bike and have an average sense of balance, you should be able to acquire the basics of mounting and riding in a straight line, on smooth, even ground, within a week or two. I would strongly suggest learning to freemount asap, rather than use a wall, poles, or someone's shoulder. I'll try to help if I can, but a little searching could probably get you the answers you need without relying on my ability to recall information. If memory serves the number is around 15 hours. So, If you are riding and mounting easily with only a third of that time I would say you are doing well.
1 For beginners, learn to ride the unicycle by holding on to a support like a fence or friend. 2  For some people, unicycling in pairs by holding hands is the fastest method to learn how to ride by themselves. 3  If the seat begins to fall, let it. 4  Stay on your feet and let the unicycle crash to avoid injury. Warnings. 1  When you are about to fall from your unicycle, leap away from it and let it fall by itself. 2  Make sure your feet are positioned straight on the pedals. 3  Unicycles do not have brakes. 4  Nobody ever learned to unicycle without taking a few spills. 5  Learning to unicycle takes time so persistence, practice, and patience are required.
You need Excel 4.0 or higher to open it. Answer five simple questions and hey presto! The spreadsheet returns your estimated time to learn and ride 50 metres on a unicycle. You will also get a probability histogram so that you can estimate how much uncertainty there is in the predicted number of hours.
Best Answer: Hey there, I've been unicycling for little over a year now. took me about 3 weeks to learn to ride consistently, another week to freemount the unicycle. 
If the seat does not go high enough you’ll need a bigger unicycle or a longer seat post. A quick rule of thumb is to stick your thumb in your belly button. The top of the saddle should be 2-3 centimetres below. Unicycling is generally not dangerous, but expect to fall every now and again, especially while learning. Learning To Ride A Unicycle. Welcome to the fun-filled world of unicycling! To kids young and old, you're about to embark on an adventure that will last a lifetime. The average time needed to learn unicycling is 10-15 hours; that's about an hour a day for two weeks. Safety Gear: Unicycling is generally not dangerous, but as with any physical activity, like riding a bike