Research says on average, 20% of couples don't get pregnant in their first year of trying. However, 95% of couples will get pregnant within two years. If you have been trying for a few months already, you may be feeling somewhat despondent.
81 percent were pregnant after 6 months. 92 percent were pregnant after 12 months. In their conclusion, the researchers wrote, “Most couples conceive within six cycles with timed intercourse.” After a year of trying without conceiving, experts say you should see a fertility specialist.
The time it takes to get pregnant generally increases with age. For example, a woman aged between 30 and 35 has around a 15% chance of getting pregnant per cycle. It's not uncommon for couple in their 30s to try for nine cycles or more before they conceive.
How long it takes to conceive. The majority of couples get pregnant within three months. Your own timeline could be longer if you're older, have certain fertility-unfriendly habits (like smoking), or have a condition that impairs fertility. Of all couples trying to conceive: 1  30 percent get pregnant within the first cycle (about one month). 2  59 percent get pregnant within three cycles (about three months). 3  80 percent get pregnant within six cycles (about six months).
This means that they have a lower than average chance of getting pregnant within any given month. They are likely to take longer to get pregnant. Taking up to two years to get pregnant is normal for some couples. It may feel far from normal if it's happening to you.
On average, 20% of all couples trying to get pregnant will not conceive in the first year of trying. According to one study, 25% of couples get pregnant in the first month of trying, while 60% of couples trying to get pregnant do so within six months. On the other hand, 75% of couples get pregnant within nine months while 80% get pregnant within a year.
1 59 percent get pregnant within three cycles (about three months). 2  80 percent get pregnant within six cycles (about six months). 3  85 percent get pregnant within 12 cycles (about one year). 4  91 percent get pregnant within 36 cycles (about three years).