Dicyclomine is used to treat the symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome. Dicyclomine is in a class of medications called anticholinergics. It relieves muscle spasms in the gastrointestinal tract by blocking the activity of a certain natural substance in the body.
Dicyclomine is used to treat a certain type of intestinal problem called irritable bowel syndrome. It helps to reduce the symptoms of stomach and intestinal cramping. This medication works by slowing the natural movements of the gut and by relaxing the muscles in the stomach and intestines.
6 Reviews. Dicyclomine, commonly sold under the brand name Bentyl, is an anti-cholinergic drug used to treat symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). It works by relieving spasms of the muscles in your stomach and intestines by blocking a certain substance that your body produces naturally.
Dicyclomine relieves spasms of the muscles in the stomach and intestines. Dicyclomine is used to treat functional bowel or irritable bowel syndrome. Dicyclomine may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Dicyclomine is a drug that is used for treating irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). Dicyclomine is in a class of drugs called anticholinergics. Anticholinergic drugs block the effects of acetylcholine, the chemical transmitter that nerves release in order to cause muscles to contract.
Dicyclomine is a medication that relieves spasms in involuntary, smooth muscles like those that line the gastrointestinal tract. Several companies produce dicyclomine in capsule, syrup, tablet and intramuscular injection formulations.
Uses. Dicyclomine is used to treat a certain type of intestinal problem called irritable bowel syndrome. It helps to reduce the symptoms of stomach and intestinal cramping. This medication works by slowing the natural movements of the gut and by relaxing the muscles in the stomach and intestines.
Dicyclomine relieves spasms of the muscles in the stomach and intestines. Dicyclomine is used to treat functional bowel or irritable bowel syndrome. Dicyclomine may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.