rear. n. 1. the back or hind part. 2. the area or position that lies at the back: a garden at the rear of the house. 3. (Military) the section of a military force or procession farthest from the front. 4. the buttocks. See buttock
The term food system is used frequently in discussions about nutrition, food, health, community economic development and agriculture. Organic agriculture is promoted for the ecological benefits of reduced chemical application, the health benefits of lower chemical consumption, the economic benefits that accrue to farmers through a price premium, and the social benefits of increased transparency in the food system.
A food system includes all processes and infrastructure involved in feeding a population: growing, harvesting, processing, packaging, transporting, marketing, consumption, and disposal of food and food-related items. It also includes the inputs needed and outputs generated at each of these steps. Organic agriculture is promoted for the ecological benefits of reduced chemical application, the health benefits of lower chemical consumption, the economic benefits that accrue to farmers through a price premium, and the social benefits of increased transparency in the food system.
Organic food systems are characterized by a reduced dependence on chemical inputs and an increased concern for transparency and information. Organic produce is grown without the chemical pesticides and fertilizers of industrial food systems, and livestock is reared without the use of antibiotics or growth hormones. Organic agriculture is promoted for the ecological benefits of reduced chemical application, the health benefits of lower chemical consumption, the economic benefits that accrue to farmers through a price premium, and the social benefits of increased transparency in the food system.
1. the properties acquired as a consequence of the way you were treated as a child. 2. helping someone grow up to be an accepted member of the community. Familiarity information: REARING used as a noun is rare. • REARING (adjective). The adjective REARING has 1 sense: 1. rearing on left hind leg with forelegs elevated and head usually in profile. Familiarity information: REARING used as an adjective is very rare. 
“Organic foods are produced according to certain production standards. For crops, it means they were grown without the use of conventional pesticides, artificial fertilizers, human waste, or sewage sludge and that they were processed without ionizing radiation or food additives.
There is a diet where the practitioner only eats meat from free-range sources called ethical omnivorism, which is a type of semivegetarian. In ranching, free-range livestock are permitted to roam without being fenced in, as opposed to fenced-in pastures. There is no requirement for access to pasture, and there may be access to only dirt or gravel. Free-range chicken eggs, however, have no legal definition in the United States. Likewise, free-range egg producers have no common standard on what the term means.
Full Definition of REAR. transitive verb. 1. : to erect by building: construct. 2. : to raise upright. 3. a (1) : to breed and raise (an animal) for use or market b: to cause (as plants) to grow. 4. : to cause (a horse) to rise up on the hind legs. 
Production systems. Indoor reared. Most meat chickens are reared in large, closed, buildings, where temperature, artificial lighting, ventilation, food and water are carefully controlled. Food and water are provided in lines along the length of the building and wood shavings cover the floor. 