The ridge in the upper part of the picture is the high pressure of the upper esophageal sphincter which only opens for a short time to let water pass. Peristalsis is a radially symmetrical contraction and relaxation of muscles that propagates in a wave down a tube, in an anterograde direction. Peristaltic movement comprises relaxation of circular smooth muscles, then their contraction behind the chewed material to keep it from moving backward, then longitudinal contraction to push it forward. Earthworms use a similar mechanism to drive their locomotion, and some modern machinery imitates this design.
Gastrointestinal motility refers to the contraction of the smooth muscles of the gastrointestinal tract. The gastrointestinal tract is commonly divided into 5 parts: the mouth, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, and large intestine (colon). When the motility is not appropriate for its specific function in digestion, it can cause symptoms such as bloating, vomiting, constipation, or diarrhea which are associated with sensations such as pain, bloating, fullness, and urgency to have a bowel movement.
After food is chewed into a bolus, it is swallowed and moved through the esophagus. Smooth muscles contract behind the bolus to prevent it from being squeezed back into the mouth. Then rhythmic, unidirectional waves of contractions work to rapidly force the food into the stomach. Peristaltic movement comprises relaxation of circular smooth muscles, then their contraction behind the chewed material to keep it from moving backward, then longitudinal contraction to push it forward. Earthworms use a similar mechanism to drive their locomotion, and some modern machinery imitates this design.
1 First, there is a primary peristaltic wave, which occurs when the bolus enters the esophagus during swallowing. 2  The primary peristaltic wave forces the bolus down the esophagus and into the stomach in a wave lasting about 8–9 seconds. Peristaltic movement comprises relaxation of circular smooth muscles, then their contraction behind the chewed material to keep it from moving backward, then longitudinal contraction to push it forward. Earthworms use a similar mechanism to drive their locomotion, and some modern machinery imitates this design.
Muscle is a soft tissue found in most animals. Muscle cells contain protein filaments of actin and myosin that slide past one another, producing a contraction that changes both the length and the shape of the cell. Muscles function to produce force and motion. 
Control of peristalsis in the smooth muscle segment of the esophagus is more complicated than in the adjacent striated muscle segment. In the latter, the central nervous system not only initiates the primary and secondary peristaltic wave, but also completely controls the sequential nature of the contraction. Esophageal peristalsis consists of sequential contraction of the circular muscles of the muscularis propria, which is largely mediated by acetylcholine. This sequential contraction serves to occlude the esophageal lumen and push the bolus aborally.
In much of a digestive tract such as the human gastrointestinal tract, smooth muscle tissue contracts in sequence to produce a peristaltic wave, which propels a ball of food (called a bolus while in the esophagus and upper gastrointestinal tract and chyme in the stomach) along the tract. Peristaltic movement comprises relaxation of circular smooth muscles, then their contraction behind the chewed material to keep it from moving backward, then longitudinal contraction to push it forward. Earthworms use a similar mechanism to drive their locomotion, and some modern machinery imitates this design.
The type of muscle in the digestive system is smooth muscle, one of  the types of involuntary muscles. Smooth muscle found in the  urinary bladder, gallbladder, arteries, ve … ins, and the digestive  tract. 
1 Esophageal peristalsis results from sequential contraction of circular muscle, which serves to push the ingested food bolus toward the stomach. 2  Esophageal longitudinal muscle may also play a role in peristalsis. Esophageal peristalsis consists of sequential contraction of the circular muscles of the muscularis propria, which is largely mediated by acetylcholine. This sequential contraction serves to occlude the esophageal lumen and push the bolus aborally.
Peristalsis is a series of muscle contractions and relaxations that occur along the course of the intestinal tract to push food and waste products through. In some cases, people can actually feel the contractions as they occur, especially in the case of movements of the large intestine. A cow takes part in 'reverse peristalsis' when its digestive tract pulls cud back into the esophagus so that it can be chewed again. Peristalsis begins with the esophagus. Vomiting is an example of the body overriding the usual muscle movements of peristalsis.