The 'Lindisfarne Centre' is wholly owned by 'The Holy Island of Lindisfarne Community Development Trust'. All profits from sales are used for the benefit of the Holy Island community and in the provision and regeneration of village resources. P ainstakingly worked and lovingly crafted over 1300 years ago on Holy Island and written 'in honour of God and Cuthbert', the 'Lindisfarne Gospels' is probably the most valuable and treasured book of its period. It is held on behalf of the nation, on view, at 'The British Library' in London.
The Holy Island of Lindisfarne is one of Britain’s foremost Christian sacred natural sites and is the only one where national ecological values overlap with national religious and historical values. Lindisfarne, one of the first Christian monastic communities in England, was founded in 635 by St. Aidan, whose generosity and humility are considered to have established the spiritual pattern of the island.
Lindisfarne (or Holy Island) [1] is situated just off the coast of Northumberland, England. It is a tidal island linked to the mainland by a causeway. 1 Drive: The main east coast road the A1 is conveniently located for Lindisfarne. 2  The turning is located in the small village of Beal (which appears to consist only of The Plough Hotel and a service station, both on the eastern side of the road). 3  The turning is signed as Holy Island.
Lindisfarne Castle on Holy Island. Skim over the sands and causeway to Holy Island and prepare to enter another world. Lying just a few miles off the Northumberland coast, Holy Island as seen on Robson Green's Tales from Northumberland is cut off twice-daily from the rest of the world by fast-moving tides. Both an island and a picturesque village, Holy Island carries a wealth of history within its tidal walls. Aside its historical pedigree, the Holy Island of Lindisfarne has an exciting array of wildlife. Its island status protects tidal mudflats, saltmarshes and dunes which together form the Lindisfarne National Nature Reserve. Rare plants and an abundance of food supplies attract visiting birds from thousands of miles.
Still a place of pilgrimage even in these more secular times, the Holy Island of Lindisfarne is the very fountain head of England's Christian heritage. It was on Holy Island that the early Christian message was honed and distributed to a largely pagan Northumberland. Lindisfarne Priory was the home of St Cuthbert and the birthplace of a true national treasure-the Lindisfarne Gospels, a unique illuminated Latin manuscript of the gospels of Mark, Luke and John.
The Holy Islanders' web site. with information on heritage. and for those visiting us. The Holy Island of Lindisfarne: In 635AD Saint Aidan came from Iona and chose to found his monastery on Lindisfarne. The Christian message flourished here and spread throughout the world. 
Statue of St Aidan on the Holy Island of Lindisfarne. Holy Island remains a place of pilgrimage today. The island is the final destination of long distance walking route and one of Scotland’s Great Trails, the St Cuthbert’s Way. Rising from the sheer rock face at the tip of the island is Lindisfarne Castle. Built to defend a harbour sheltering English ships during skirmishes with Scotland, the castle caught the eye of Edward Hudson, founder of Country Life magazine. Aside its historical pedigree, the Holy Island of Lindisfarne has an exciting array of wildlife. Its island status protects tidal mudflats, saltmarshes and dunes which together form the Lindisfarne National Nature Reserve. Rare plants and an abundance of food supplies attract visiting birds from thousands of miles.
The Holy Island of Lindisfarne has been a Christian holy site and pilgrimage center since 635, playing a pivotal role as a cradle of Christianity in Northern England and Southern Scotland. Lindisfarne, one of the first Christian monastic communities in England, was founded in 635 by St. Aidan, whose generosity and humility are considered to have established the spiritual pattern of the island.
Lindisfarne Castle is a 16th-century castle located on Holy Island, near Berwick-upon-Tweed, Northumberland, England, much altered by Sir Edwin Lutyens in 1901. The island is accessible from the mainland at low tide by means of a causeway. 
The Holy Island of Lindisfarne. Lindisfarne Priory. As one of the holiest Anglo-Saxon sites in England, the island has become globally important. St Aidan founded a Christian community on Holy Island in 635 and it was also the home of St Cuthbert, who died on Inner Farne in 687.