Perennials, or plants and flowers that come back year after year, are found in virtually every yard. Perennial flowers work in multiple situations: in whole garden beds, in combination with annuals and bulbs, as accent to shrubs and trees, and in containers and windowboxes. You'll also discover what perennial plants work well in sun or shade, USDA Hardiness Zones, growing requirements, and planting suggestions for perennials. View a list of perennials by common name or scientific name.
The searchable tool enables you to search by perennial common or scientific name, plant characteristics, growing season, and common uses. You'll also discover what perennial plants work well in sun or shade, USDA Hardiness Zones, growing requirements, and planting suggestions for perennials. View a list of perennials by common name or scientific name.
Perennial Plants. Year after year, Burpee's perennial seeds and plants will fill your home garden beds and borders. Select from our full palette of colors, textures, forms and fragrances to create the perennial garden of your dreams-a sensory pleasure for years to come. Mix and Match Perennials and Save 20%! Save 20% when you buy any combination of 3 or more perennials plants! Mix and Match perennial plants one or more at a time-once you add the third plant to your cart ALL your perennial plants will be 20% off! Order as many as you like and they will all be 20% off
Definition of Perennial Plants. Simply put, unlike annuals or biennials, perennials are plants that live year after year. Some perennials, such as trees and shrubs, have significant life spans. Others, like many flowering perennials, may need to be replaced every three or more years. 
The symbol for a perennial plant, based on Species Plantarum by Linnaeus, is, which is also the astronomical symbol for the planet Jupiter. Perennial plants can be short-lived (only a few years) or they can be long-lived, as are some woody plants like trees. They include a wide assortment of plant groups from ferns and liverworts to the highly diverse flowering plants like orchids and grasses.
A perennial plant or simply perennial is a plant that lives for more than two years. The term is often used to differentiate a plant from shorter-lived annuals and biennials. The term is also widely used to distinguish plants with little or no woody growth from trees and shrubs, which are also technically perennials. Perennial plants can be short-lived (only a few years) or they can be long-lived, as are some woody plants like trees. They include a wide assortment of plant groups from ferns and liverworts to the highly diverse flowering plants like orchids and grasses.
Not all plants with the ability to be perennial are hardy in all areas. Some can be killed by freezing temperatures, excessively dry conditions or other growing conditions. This is why hardiness zones are so important. Knowing what zone you garden in will allow you to determine what plants will survive in your area. The term perennial is most often used for plants with showy flowers, but plants like ornamental grasses, tropicals and other plants that have their own categories may also be perennial.
The Perennial Plant of the Year™ (POY™) program began in 1990 to showcase a perennial that is a standout among its competitors. Perennials chosen are suitable for a wide range of growing climates, require low maintenance, have multiple-season interest, and are relatively pest/disease-free. Geranium xcantabrigiense 'Biokovo'. Geranium xcantabrigiense ‘Biokovo’ is the 2015 Perennial Plant of the Year™. Geranium xcantabrigiense ‘Biokovo,’ pronounced jer-AY-nee-um kan-tuh-brij-ee-EN-see bi-o-KO-vo, carries several common names including Biokovo geranium and cranesbill Biokovo. The plant is a member of the Geraniaceae family
Perennial Seeds and Plants. something to look forward to... Year after year, Burpee's perennial seeds and plants will fill your home garden beds and borders. Select from our full palette of colors, textures, forms and fragrances to create the perennial garden of your dreams-a sensory pleasure for years to come. 