Terra-cotta can range from white to reddish brown in color. Terra-cotta pots are made from clay and fire-baked to form porous earthenware. Terra-cotta pots commonly are used in gardens to hold plants or water, but they have a variety of other purposes. If your terra-cotta pots are unglazed, they can absorb moisture and crack when exposed to extremely cold temperatures. Sealing the pots with exterior varnish or terra-cotta sealer also can prevent mineral and salt spots that form from water exposure. 1. Clean the terra-cotta pots with warm water and a few drops of dish detergent on a soft-bristled scrub brush. For mineral spots, wipe the pot with a cloth dampened with full-strength white or apple cider vinegar. Thoroughly rinse the pots, then dry them with a towel. Allow them to air dry completely before waterproofing
If you do not paint the inside and you place a plant in your pot, the water will seep through the pot and make your paint bubble up on the outside. Do not use inside bird baths or fountains. If you remember those tips, you should be ready to paint your own terra cotta pots for some gorgeous outdoor decor. décor 
Terracotta pots have a timeless beauty and can last for several years if given some TLC once and a while. One of the advantages of using terracotta pots is that they absorb water, and help prevent over-watering (I use them to grow all of my succulents and cactus plants). The less vinegar you use, the longer you’ll need to soak the pots. Completely submerge the clay pots in the solution. You may hear a sizzling sounds or see bubbles. Don’t worry; that’s a combination of the vinegar doing it’s job at dissolving the crusty buildup, and the clay pot absorbing the water.
Ollas (pronounced “oy-yahs”) are unglazed clay/terra-cotta pots with a bottle or tapered shape that are buried in the ground with the top/neck exposed above the soil surface and filled with water for sub-surface irrigation of plants. Ollas may be the most efficient method of local plant irrigation in drylands known to humanity due to the microporous (unglazed) walls that do “not allow water to flow freely from the pot, but guides water seepage from it in the direction where suction develops.
Fertilizer salts do not discolor plastic pots and salts do not build up on the rims, as they do on clay pots. One advantage of the fact that these salts cannot get through the walls of the pot, it leaves the outsides always clean, and the inside can be wiped cleaned with a sponge. Plastic pots have several drainage hold so small that soil does not sift through and no drainage material is needed at the bottom of the pot. These require the least maintenance, because plastic is non-porous and water can t evaporate through the walls.
Plastic pots hold water almost twice as long as clay pots. In plastic pots the soil stays evenly moist, and the plant can survive absent minded or absent owners. If you are going to be gone, your plants can be left and survive a weekend in plastic pots, when in a clay pot it may perish. Plastic pots have several drainage hold so small that soil does not sift through and no drainage material is needed at the bottom of the pot. These require the least maintenance, because plastic is non-porous and water can t evaporate through the walls.
However, since terra cotta containers can absorb water, they also absorb minerals from the soil and chemicals in the fertilizers. It is essential that they be cleaned and sterilized at the end of each season to keep from these absorbed particles from being spread to new plants in the spring. 
1 Domestic water effluent [graywater]from kitchens can easily be recycled and used in clay pot irrigation in backyards. 2  The water used for cleaning utensils in the kitchen can be used to refill the pots in a backyard garden. 3  This saves on scarce water and reduces the need to use fresh water. Ollas may be the most efficient method of local plant irrigation in drylands known to humanity due to the microporous (unglazed) walls that do “not allow water to flow freely from the pot, but guides water seepage from it in the direction where suction develops.
Clay pots are beautiful, practical and affordable. Your choice of pot is important. It will influence the look, cost and upkeep of your project for years to come. In theory, anything that holds soil can function as a flowerpot, but most gardeners tend to develop preferences, and sometimes strong opinions, on the subject. Clay pots are a common favorite, and with good reason. Large, ornate or customized planters can be expensive, but unglazed terracotta pots are usually comparable with plastic pots of the same size. Part of the beauty of clay pots is their tendency to beautify with age as they weather and absorb mineral salts from the soil.