In ancient Greek Philosophy, Aristotle foregrounded the meaning of arche as the element or principle of a thing, which although undemonstrable and intangible in itself, provides the conditions of the possibility of that thing. This source of entity is always preserved. (Aristotle-Metaph.A, 983, b6ff). Anaximander was the first philosopher that used arche for that which writers from Aristotle onwards called the substratum (Simplicius Phys.
Origin of ARCHE. Greek archē, literally, beginning — more at archi-. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged
Arche in Ancient Greek philosophy [edit]. The heritage of Greek mythology already embodied the desire to articulate reality as a whole and this universalizing impulse was fundamental for the first projects of speculative theorizing. This source of entity is always preserved. (Aristotle-Metaph.A, 983, b6ff). Anaximander was the first philosopher that used arche for that which writers from Aristotle onwards called the substratum (Simplicius Phys.
1 beginning, origin. 2  the person or thing that commences, the first person or thing in a series, the leader. 3  that by which anything begins to be, the origin, the active cause. 4  the extremity of a thing. 5  of the corners of a sail. Definition. beginning, origin the person or thing that commences, the first person or thing in a series, the leader that by which anything begins to be, the origin, the active cause the extremity of a thing of the corners of a sail the first place, principality, rule, magistracy of angels and demons. 1  beginning, origin.
Strong's #746: arche (pronounced ar-khay'). from 756; (properly abstract) a commencement, or (concretely) chief (in various applications of order, time, place, or rank):--beginning, corner, (at the, the) first (estate), magistrate, power, principality, principle, rule. Thayer's Greek Lexicon: ̓́. archē
Arche (Ancient Greek: ἀρχή) is a Greek word with primary senses beginning, origin or source of action. (εξ’ ἀρχής: from the beginning, οr εξ’ ἀρχής λόγος: the original argument), and later first principle or element, first so used by Anaximander (Simplicius in Ph. 150.23), principles of knowledge (ἀρχαί) (Aristot. This source of entity is always preserved. (Aristotle-Metaph.A, 983, b6ff). Anaximander was the first philosopher that used arche for that which writers from Aristotle onwards called the substratum (Simplicius Phys.
Noun Feminine. Definition. beginning, origin the person or thing that commences, the first person or thing in a series, the leader that by which anything begins to be, the origin, the active cause the extremity of a thing of the corners of a sail the first place, principality, rule, magistracy of angels and demons. 1  beginning, origin. 1 the person or thing that commences, the first person or thing in a series, the leader. 2  that by which anything begins to be, the origin, the active cause.
Definition of ARCHE. : something that was in the beginning: a first principle: a in early Greek philosophy: a substance or primal element b in Aristotle: an actuating principle (as a cause). ADVERTISEMENT. Greek archē, literally, beginning — more at archi-. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis.