Glandular fever is a viral infection caused by the Epstein–Barr virus. Glandular fever is often spread through oral acts such as kissing, which is why it is sometimes called the kissing disease. However, glandular fever can also be spread by airborne saliva droplets. Symptoms of glandular fever include: 1  Fever. 
Glandular fever is a viral infection with unpleasant symptoms that can last several weeks. Glandular fever affects around 1 in 200 people during their lives and mostly affects young adults aged between 15 and 24. Swollen glands in the back of the neck are especially typical of glandular fever. Most people develop a sore throat, which can be very severe, with inflamed tonsils. A fever, usually no higher than 40 degrees Celsius (104 degrees Fahrenheit), can also develop and may last up to three weeks.
Confidence votes 2.1K. Infectious mononucleosis, commonly known as glandular fever, is a viral infection, which is caused by the Epstein-Barr virus. The disease is, among other things, characterised by a sore throat, swollen lymph nodes and extreme fatigue. Young people aged between 10 and 25 years are most vulnerable to this infection. 
Symptoms of glandular fever include fever, sore throat, swollen neck glands and fatigue. Glandular fever is caused by the Epstein-Barr virus, or EBV, named after the two British researchers who first identified it in 1964, although the disease itself had been recognised many years earlier. Swollen glands in the back of the neck are especially typical of glandular fever. Most people develop a sore throat, which can be very severe, with inflamed tonsils. A fever, usually no higher than 40 degrees Celsius (104 degrees Fahrenheit), can also develop and may last up to three weeks.
Symptoms of glandular fever are thought to take around one to two months to develop after infection with the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). How the condition progresses. Most symptoms of glandular fever will usually resolve within two or three weeks. Your throat will normally feel most sore for three to five days after symptoms start before gradually improving, and your fever will usually last 10 to 14 days.
Symptoms of glandular fever. Symptoms of glandular fever, which typically appear 4 to 8 weeks after being infected with EBV, include: 1  sore throat; 2  enlarged lymph nodes (glands), usually in the neck; 3  fever; 4  tiredness; 5  swollen tonsils; 6  headache; and. 7  night sweats. 
Glandular fever comes on gradually. It begins with flu-like symptoms; fever, headache and a general malaise and lethargy. After a few days, the lymph glands begin to swell, although this symptom is not noticeable in everyone. Swollen glands in the back of the neck are especially typical of glandular fever. Most people develop a sore throat, which can be very severe, with inflamed tonsils. A fever, usually no higher than 40 degrees Celsius (104 degrees Fahrenheit), can also develop and may last up to three weeks.
Glandular fever, also known as infectious mononucleosis, is a type of viral infection. It can cause fever, sore throat, fatigue, swollen lymph nodes and glands. Glandular fever is caused by the Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) and is one of the most common viruses that can affect humans. Extreme fatigue is a common symptom of glandular fever. 1  Flu-like symptoms. 2  As is the case with many virus infections, glandular fever often causes fever and temperature, aches, headaches, and feeling sick. 3  A skin rash can appear in some individuals. 4  Widespread, red, non-itchy. 5  Loss of appetite. 6  Nausea.
Common symptoms of glandular fever include: Extreme fatigue is a common symptom of glandular fever. 1  Flu-like symptoms. 2  As is the case with many virus infections, glandular fever often causes fever and temperature, aches, headaches, and feeling sick. 3  A skin rash can appear in some individuals. 4  Widespread, red, non-itchy. 5  Loss of appetite. 6  Nausea.