This phenomenon is known as the chemical shift. In addition, the resonance frequencies are purturbed by the existance of neighboring NMR active nuclei, in a manner dependent on the bonding electrons that connect the nuclei. This is knows as spin-spin, or J coupling. Two-dimensional NMR spectra have two frequency axes, which can correspond to like nuclei (i.e. 1H-1H) or different nuclei (i.e. 1H-13C), and a third dimension of peak intensity. More recently, NMR experiments have been developed that contain information in three, four, and even five dimensions.
Most frequently, NMR spectroscopy is used by chemists and biochemists to investigate the properties of organic molecules, although it is applicable to any kind of sample that contains nuclei possessing spin. The vast majority of nuclei in a solution would belong to the solvent, and most regular solvents are hydrocarbons and would contain NMR-reactive protons. Thus, deuterium (hydrogen-2) is substituted (99+%).
This magnetic field makes the possible spin-states of the nucleus differ in energy, and using NMR techniques the spins can be made to create observable transitions between the spin states. Common NMR active nuclei are 1H, 13C, 31P, 15N, 29Si, and many more. Two-dimensional NMR spectra have two frequency axes, which can correspond to like nuclei (i.e. 1H-1H) or different nuclei (i.e. 1H-13C), and a third dimension of peak intensity. More recently, NMR experiments have been developed that contain information in three, four, and even five dimensions.
1) Carbon is one of the proverbial dogs of NMR nuclei (along with 15 N and 17 O, of course). This NMR is plagued with two standard plights: Low natural abundance. Poor receptivity (see table below). The NMR active carbon isotope marks only 1.07 % of the carbon present (cf. , 99.99 or 100% for 1 H and 19 F, respectively) and it is intrinsically less receptive (by 4 orders of magnitude vs. both 1 H and 19 F!!). Some Properties of Selected Magnetically Active Nuclei[i]. 
There are many NMR active nuclei other than 13 C and 1 H that are encountered by chemists. The effects on proton and carbon NMR spectra can vary from negligible to dramatic, depending on the natural abundance of the X-nucleus, and on its nuclear properties (spin and T 1 relaxation). The principal effects: 
Nuclei with spin = 0. These nuclei have no NMR properties except for isotope shifts on nearby nuclei: 16 O, 12 C, 32 S. Principal NMR active nuclei with spin = ½ . These nuclei are easily observed, give sharp lines and easily observed J coupling. 100% abundance: 1 H, 19 F, 31 P, 169 Tm, 103 Rh, 89 Y. Of these, Rh and Y are low-frequency nuclei which may require special hardware. Nuclear Properties: these determine what kind of hardware is needed and what experiments can be done on a nucleus (see 11-DATA-1 Main group, Transition metals, Lanthanides). - Spin (I I = 0, the nucleus cannot be directly observed. Nuclei with I = ½ have excellent NMR properties (sharp lines).
Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, most commonly known as NMR spectroscopy, is a research technique that exploits the magnetic properties of certain atomic nuclei. It determines the physical and chemical properties of atoms or the molecules in which they are contained. The vast majority of nuclei in a solution would belong to the solvent, and most regular solvents are hydrocarbons and would contain NMR-reactive protons. Thus, deuterium (hydrogen-2) is substituted (99+%).
Some nuclei have spin. The most important nuclide from a spectroscopic standpoint is 1H, followed by 13C, 31P, 19F, 2H, 15N, 29Si. All of these nuclei are spin 1/2 nuclei except deuterium (2H) which is spin 1. For a complete listing of NMR active nuclei, see our NMR Frequency Table. Some nuclei have I=0, meaning that they are not NMR-active (12C, 16O). Normally, the energies of the various allowed spin states are degenerate (the same). However, application of a magnetic field (B0) splits the energies of the spin states.