The diffusing capacity of the lung is usually reported as both the diffusing capacity (DLCO) and the diffusing capacity divided by the alveolar volume (DLCO/VA). However, it is unclear which measure to use when interpreting pulmonary gas exchange. The reason that the DLCO was a better predictor of gas exchange than the DLCO/VA may be because the DLCO is a more global measure of diffusing capacity, which takes into account not only the intrinsic gas exchange ability of the lung (the DLCO/VA), but also the overall lung size and distribution of ventilation (VA).
DLCO, VA and Inspired Volume can say a lot about lung function. DLCO is a critical component in the differential diagnosis of obstructive and restrictive lung diseases but to use it you first need to assess test quality with Inspired Volume and VA and only then can you use VA to help interpret the results. DLCO can be used to assess a patient for lung resection, lobectomies and pneumonectomies. A simple approach is to estimate how much lung tissue will be removed as a fraction of the total lung volume and then estimate that DLCO will be reduced by the same amount.
Trying to determine DLCO test quality without other pulmonary function test results will be difficult because the results from spirometry and lung volume tests can be used both to assess DLCO quality and to guide the interpretation. DLCO can be used to assess a patient for lung resection, lobectomies and pneumonectomies. A simple approach is to estimate how much lung tissue will be removed as a fraction of the total lung volume and then estimate that DLCO will be reduced by the same amount.
DLCO. A clinical test which provides an objective measure of lung function. It reflects the lung's ability to take up an inhaled nonreactive test gas—e.g., carbon monoxide (CO)—which binds to haemoglobin with such a high affinity that virtually all of the CO reaches the alveolar space.
Understanding Your Test Results. A doctor will interpret the results of your PFTs by comparing them to normal values. To describe how serious your COPD is, the categories of mild, moderate, severe and very severe are used. The following two tests provide the most important information concerning your lung volume: 1  Total Lung Capacity (TLC) is the most amount of air your lungs can hold at the top of breathing in.
In fact, the DLCO/VA is the transfer coefficient for the diffusion of CO into the blood, and is an essential part of the equation used to calculate the DLCO. 10 The global diffusing capacity is calculated as the DLCO/VA multiplied by the overall lung volume, VA. The reason that the DLCO was a better predictor of gas exchange than the DLCO/VA may be because the DLCO is a more global measure of diffusing capacity, which takes into account not only the intrinsic gas exchange ability of the lung (the DLCO/VA), but also the overall lung size and distribution of ventilation (VA).
DLCO or TLCO (diffusing capacity or t ransfer factor of the lung for carbon monoxide (CO),) is the extent to which oxygen passes from the air sacs of the lungs into the blood. Commonly, it refers to the test used to determine this parameter. It was introduced in 1909. 
This test is used to estimate the transfer of oxygen from the alveoli in your lungs to your bloodstream. The diffusing capacity (DL) of oxygen is technically very difficult to measure, and the test actually measures the diffusing capacity of carbon monoxide (DLCO) which provides a valid estimate of the oxygen diffusion. The diffusing capacity test results are compared to normal values for someone that is your height, age, gender and ethnicity. These normal values will come from one of several different population studies and there are two different ways of making this comparison:
Percent predicted: A DLCO result that is at least 80% of the predicted value is considered to be within normal limits. Lower Limit of Normal (LLN): The lower limit of normal is based on a statistical analysis of the study population. A DLCO result above the LLN is considered to be within normal limits. The diffusing capacity test results are compared to normal values for someone that is your height, age, gender and ethnicity. These normal values will come from one of several different population studies and there are two different ways of making this comparison:
Question: The diffusing capacity (DLCO) is a moderately difficult test to perform and so the values can vary from one pulmonary lab to another. Furthermore, not all labs use the same set of predicted values so, for example, a raw number of 10.0 could be 40% of predicted in one lab and 36% of predicted in another lab. Because the diffusing capacity is not a perfect test in every patient, we often look at the overall result of several pulmonary function tests together including the FVC (forced vital capacity), TLC (total lung capacity), and blood oxygen saturation during walking (commonly done during a 6 minute walk test).