Founder, baker, chief cookie lover and former chairman of Mrs. Fields Cookies, a $450 million company she founded in 1977, Fields has since sold her company, which is a market leader among fresh-baked cookie stores. At the age of 20, Fields was a young housewife with no business experience. The first, Mrs. Fields' Cookie Book: 100 Recipes from the Kitchen of Mrs. Fields, has sold more than 1.8 million copies and was the first cookbook to top The New York Times best seller list.
Debbie Fields, founder of Mrs. Fields Cookies, shared her story of raising the dough to open the first of more than 1,000 shops filled with her delectable delights with the Sam Houston State University community during the fall edition of The President's Speaker Series on Tuesday. The passion. Twenty-five years after opening the small shop and hitting the sidewalks of Palo Alto, Calif., Mrs. Fields Bakery is one of the industry's most recognized names. The perfection. Seeing her product as more than a cookie, Fields said she continues to seek
More than 25 years of entrepreneurial, operational and managerial experience, all of it earned in a company she built (literally) from scratch. Founder, baker, chief cookie lover and former Chairman, of Mrs. Fields Cookies, a $450 million company she founded in 1977. Armed with real butter, an American Dream and an inability to accept ‘no’ as an answer, she opened Mrs. Fields Chocolate Chippery in Palo Alto, California on August 16, 1977. 
Mrs. Fields Cookies was founded by Debbi Fields (b. 1956, Oakland, California) in the late 1970s. She and her husband, Randy, opened their first of many stores in 1977 in Palo Alto, California, selling homemade-style cookies which quickly grew in popularity. In 1982, they moved their headquarters to Park City, Utah. I would like to tell all my customers that this story is not true, this is not my recipe and I have not sold the recipe to anyone. Mrs. Fields recipe is a delicious trade secret. Mrs. Fields Famous Brands is a franchisor in the snack food industry, with Mrs. Fields and TCBY as its core brands.
Debbi Fields (born September 18, 1956) is the founder and spokesperson of Mrs. Fields Bakeries. Additionally, she has written several cookbooks and makes cookies. She currently lives in Memphis, Tennessee, with her husband, former Holiday Inn and Harrah's CEO Michael Rose. Debbi was one of the first ones he hired. She was paid five dollars an hour and would use the money to buy ingredients for what would become her famous cookies. At the age of nineteen, Debbi married Randy Fields, taking the name she would soon use for her business. She attended Foothill College in Los Altos, California.
About Mrs. Fields. Mrs. Fields is based in Broomfield, Colorado with a production and distribution facility in Salt Lake City, Utah. Debbi Fields opened her first store in Palo Alto, California in 1977 and the Mrs. Fields name quickly became associated with warm, freshly baked cookies right out of the oven. Today, Mrs. Fields enjoys the highest aided brand awareness in the industry and sells products at over 300 retail locations globally and online.
Biography. Debbi Fields is the founder and former chairperson of Mrs. Fields Cookies, a $500 million company. At age 20 and without any business experience, Debbi convinced a bank to finance an unproven business concept that appeared to have little likelihood of success. On August 16, 1977, Mrs. Fields… more