Tdap is a combination vaccine that protects against three potentially life-threatening bacterial diseases: tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis (whooping cough). Td is a booster vaccine for tetanus and diphtheria. It does not protect against pertussis.
DTaP and Tdap vaccines help protect infants and children against 3 diseases: pertussis, tetanus, and diphtheria. The childhood vaccine is called DTaP. The adult and adolescent booster vaccine is called Tdap. Both help protect against all 3 conditions.
DTaP is approved for children under age 7. Tdap, which has a reduced dose of the diphtheria and pertussis vaccines, is approved for adolescents starting at age 11 and adults ages 19 to 64. It is often called a booster dose because it boosts the immunity that wanes from vaccines given at ages 4 to 6.
The pertussis vaccines, DTaP (for infants and children) and Tdap (for adolescents and adults), also protect against diphtheria and tetanus: 1  Diphtheria can lead to breathing problems, heart failure, and death. 2  You can get it from contact with an infected person.
1 The whooping cough booster is a combination vaccine with tetanus and diphtheria. 2  The vaccine is called Tdap. 3  Once an adult gets the Tdap vaccine, he or she should get the Td (tetanus and diphtheria) booster every 10 years from then on.
DTaP is a vaccine that helps children younger than age 7 develop immunity to three deadly diseases caused by bacteria: diphtheria, tetanus, and whooping cough (pertussis). Tdap is a booster immunization given at age 11 that offers continued protection from those diseases for adolescents and adults.
Tdap vaccine. Tdap vaccine can protect adolescents and adults from tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis. One dose of Tdap is routinely given at age 11 or 12. People who did not get Tdap at that age should get it as soon as possible.
Tdap vaccine protects against tetanus, diphtheria, and whooping cough (pertussis) . Teens and adults should get Tdap vaccine in order to: 1  Help protect themselves against whooping cough and prevent the spread of disease to others. 2  Help protect babies from whooping cough.
Another vaccine, called Td, protects against tetanus and diphtheria, but not pertussis. A Td booster should be given every 10 years. Tdap may be given as one of these boosters if you have never gotten Tdap before. Tdap may also be given after a severe cut or burn to prevent tetanus infection.