Hand marbling is the art of floating paints on top of a thick solution, called size, manipulating the paints into patterns, then transferring the pattern to an object by gently placing the object on top of the paints. We'll hand marble 100% cottons. Fabric that's sold for dyeing is a perfect choice, but any cotton fabric will do. Pre-wash fabrics, and if they're regular cottons off the bolt, throw a few tablespoons of Borax into the wash to help remove coatings.
Marbling. Marbling is a method of decorating paper or fabric by floating pigments or colours on a sizing solution. Carrageen is used to develop the appropriate viscosity of the sizing solution to maintain the colours and pattern on the solution surface. The colours can then be combed or manipulated into various patterns. MARBLING: Comb the inks, or use other methods to create marbled patterns. Then gently lower fabric onto the ink pattern. The inks should stay on the surface of the material (similar to screen printing). Should the ink penetrate through, it indicates that the ink is too thick.
Fabric marbling is such a unique method and an awesome way to create a cool pattern you can somewhat control and transfer to other surfaces. We had a blast creating these cocktail and dinner napkins to use for parties or events! The process was timely, but so much fun. 
Marbling is the process of floating fabric paints on the surface of a thick cellulose solution (called size), somewhat like oil on water. This will wash out anything that is likely to prevent the paint from sticking. For Paper: 4 tbsp (2 oz) Alum in one quart water. For Fabric: 8 tbsp (4 oz) Alum in one gallon water. Dip the fabric into the alum solution or if necessary, such as for paper, sponge it on very thoroughly.
Golden Acrylics page1, page 2; Fabric, Marbling Size MARBLING INSTRUCTIONS: Marbling with Golden Acrylics Marbling (or marbleizing) is an intricate art form with numerous variables and techniques, especially when it comes to manipulating the paint on the size. 
Marbling is the art of printing multi-colored swirled or stone-like patterns on paper or fabric. The patterns are formed by first floating the colors on the surface of a liquid, and then laying the paper or fabric onto the colors to absorb them. Hello -- I'm Galen Berry, one of the few professional marblers in the country. I started marbling in 1985, and have been doing it as a full-time occupation for 26 years now.
Paper marbling is a method of aqueous surface design, which can produce patterns similar to smooth marble or other stone. The patterns are the result of color floated on either plain water or a viscous solution known as size, and then carefully transferred to an absorbent surface, such as paper or fabric. 
My first marbling piece waiting to dry. When finished marbling, move each fabric and piece of newsprint to a place where they can dry. After the fabric dries on the newsprint sheet (which took some of my pieces from 24-48 hours), peel it off and then hand wash it in warm water with dish detergent. The day before marbling, the fabric needs to be soaked in alum. The alum helps the paint to adhere to the fabric. Mix 2 tablespoons of alum to two gallons of water and let the fabric soak for 20 minutes or so.
www.dickblick.com. This video shows how easy it is to create amazing marblized fabric and paper with the Jacquard Marbling Kit. The kit includes step-by-step instructions and all materials needed with the exception of the paper or fabric. The results vibrant and unique! Great for the classroom, home or studio. 
Marbling fabric is a great way to recycle old hankies, and men's handkerchiefs are a good size for making a furoshiki. In order for the paint to adhere permanently to the fabric, it's necessary to soak the cloth in a mixture of alum and water before marbling. Alum can cause a skin rash, so have an adult do this step for you. In a bucket, dissolve 2 tablespoons of alum (potassium aluminum sulfate) in 1 quart of warm tap water.