Government. Spain is a constitutional monarchy governed under the constitution of 1978. The hereditary monarch, who is the head of state, may ratify laws, dissolve the legislature, and propose candidates for the office of prime minister; he is also head of the armed forces. The prime minister (presidente) is the head of government. The king proposes the prime minister, who must be approved by the legislature. Spain has a bicameral legislature, the Cortes (Las Cortes Generales), or National Assembly. Members of the 350-seat Congress of Deputies are elected by popular vote.
Spain is a parliamentary monarchy.Spain is a Democratic Monarchy. It has a King, Juan Carlos I, who has very little power and is the Head of State. It has a democratically e … lected government which in turn elects a Presidente del Gobierno. The President governs the nation and is Head of Government. Spain is a democracy with a parlimetary government under a constitutional monarchy. The European country of Spain holds the form of government known as  Constitutional … Monarchy. They have monarchs, but they have no  executive role, they are their representatives in formal  ceremonies.
The politics of Spain takes place under the framework established by the Constitution of 1978. Spain is established as a social and democratic state, wherein the national sovereignty is vested in the people, from which the powers of the state emanate. Spain is a multi-party constitutional parliamentary democracy. According to the constitution, political parties are the expression of political pluralism, contributing to the formation and expression of the will of the people, and are an essential instrument of political participation.
The Supreme Court of Spain is the highest court in the nation, with jurisdiction in all Spanish territories, superior to all in all affairs, except in constitutional matters, which are the jurisdiction of a separate court, the Constitutional Court. Spain is a multi-party constitutional parliamentary democracy. According to the constitution, political parties are the expression of political pluralism, contributing to the formation and expression of the will of the people, and are an essential instrument of political participation.
Spain. The system of government in Spain takes the form of a parliamentary monarchy. The Constitution was signed by the King of Spain and thus proclaimed on December 27,1978. 
The Republic of the Philippines is a constitutional democracy, with the President as head of state. The president and vice president are elected by the people for six-year terms. The national government has three coequal branches that exercise a system of checks and balances: executive, legislative, and judicial. 
1 The Monarchy of Spain holds the constitutional head of state, which has no executive role, other than appointing officials, requiring reports of official activities and representing Spain at formal and ceremonial occasions. This was approved by a general referendum of the people of Spain in 1978. The final interpretation of the Constitution, in the case of dispute, is the business of the Constitutional Court of Spain.
Spain's current government is relatatively new, having been organized from scratch following the 1975 death of Spanish dictator Francisco Franco after a 35-year reign. The Spanish constitution, which bestowed upon Spain a long-awaited democratic Parliamentary Monarchy, was drafted and decided upon in 1978. Monarchy. 
1 President of the Government, sometimes misleadingly called the Spanish President, is the first minister and is elected by the Congress of Deputies. 2  He is informally but internationally and commonly referred to as the Prime Minister. 3  The current holder is Mariano Rajoy Brey, who was elected on December 21, 2011. This was approved by a general referendum of the people of Spain in 1978. The final interpretation of the Constitution, in the case of dispute, is the business of the Constitutional Court of Spain.
Spain is a constitutional monarchy whose government is defined by the Constitution of Spain. This was approved by a general referendum of the people of Spain in 1978. The final interpretation of the Constitution, in the case of dispute, is the business of the Constitutional Court of Spain.