Heart palpitations are one of the most common physical symptoms of anxiety, and they’re also one of the most terrifying. When you experience palpitations, it’s hard not to think there’s something serious wrong with your heart, and that’s where the intense fear comes from. 
Many things can cause palpitations. You may have these feelings even when your heart is beating normally or somewhat faster than normal. Most palpitations are harmless and often go away on their own. However, some palpitations are signs of a heart problem. Sometimes the cause of palpitations can't be found. If you start having palpitations, see your doctor to have them checked. 
Hi team, I have had terrible heart palpitations since starting mirtazapine, mainly towards the end of the day and when I am in bed. It's so frightening I don't know what to do, it's like my heart stops and makes me take a massive breath. I have recently increased to 30mg any ideas. 
Often the cause of your heart palpitations can't be found. Common causes of heart palpitations include: 1  Strong emotional responses, such as stress or anxiety. 2  Strenuous exercise. 3  Caffeine. 4  Nicotine. 5  Fever. 6  Hormone changes associated with menstruation, pregnancy or menopause. 7  Taking cold and cough medications that contain pseudoephedrine, a stimulant
These types of palpitations often trigger panic attacks. Panic attacks themselves can also cause palpitations. During a panic attack, two things occur that lead to rapid heartbeat: 1  First, the sympathetic nervous system is on high alert, which may lead to a rapid increase in heart rate. 2  Second, during panic attacks, people often have a tendency to hyperventilate
Notify your doctor if serious side effects of Remeron occur including agitation, hallucinations, fever, rapid or uneven heart rate, loss of coordination, stiff muscles, confusion, tremors, flu symptoms, memory problems, or weakness. Remeron (mirtazapine) is a tetracyclic antidepressant used to treat depression. The drug is available in generic form (mirtazapine). It has been used to treat nausea, anxiety, post traumatic stress syndrome, and used as an appetite stimulant. The most common side effects of Remeron are drowsiness, increased appetite, weight gain, dizziness, and nausea
We see this with a very common cause of palpitations called atrial fibrillation. Patients can be in atrial fibrillation for many years without harm, but some patients with very little symptoms may have too rapid and irregular a rhythm present with symptoms of heart failure. 
What Heart Palpitations Tell You About Your Anxiety. Heart palpitations can affect anyone with anxiety. They're both a symptom and a cause, and are more common in those that suffer from anxiety attacks. Check out your anxiety profile (if you haven't taken my free anxiety test yet, do so first). Panic attacks themselves can also cause palpitations. During a panic attack, two things occur that lead to rapid heartbeat: 1  First, the sympathetic nervous system is on high alert, which may lead to a rapid increase in heart rate.
Causes of Heart Palpitations. Many things can cause heart palpitations. In the vast majority of cases, the cause is either related to your heart or is unknown. Non-heart-related causes of palpitations include: 1  Strong emotions such as anxiety, fear, or stress; palpitations often occur during panic attacks. 2  Vigorous physical activity. 3  Caffeine, nicotine, alcohol, or illegal street drugs such as cocaine and amphetamine