Definition of CREMINI. : a meaty cultivated brown or tan mushroom that is of the same variety of button mushroom as the larger and more mature portobello. cre·mi·ni or cri·mi·ni \kri-ˈmē-nē\. ADVERTISEMENT
Cremini (or Crimini) mushrooms are known botanically as Agaricus bisporus, and are also known as baby Portobellos. These little brown mushrooms are the same as the white Button mushrooms seen on pizzas and the large Portobello mushrooms that grill like a steak. The difference between these three mushrooms is merely age. Remove the stem, and stuff Cremini mushrooms with crab or other meats, add to sauces and soups or slice and top a pizza. Add quartered Cremini mushrooms to green or grain salads. The stems are completely edible; pair with red wine, stock, mozzarella cheese, tomato-based sauces, fresh herbs and beef.
Crimini mushrooms are a coffee-colored variety of the world's most commonly eaten mushroom, commonly called the button mushroom. The names white button, crimini and portobello all refer to this same scientific category of mushroom, Agaricus bisporus. 1 Along with extracts from oyster, shiikate, maitake, and white button mushrooms, extracts from crimini mushrooms have been found to reduce the binding of certain immune cells onto the lining of the aorta.
Cremini, also known as crimini mushrooms, are simply a different strain than the white button. Developed by commercial growers, they are brown in color and have a slightly deeper taste. Growers also created the concept of portobello mushrooms to sell mature cremini. Cremini mushrooms sometimes live in the shadows of their well-known edible relatives. They're not quite the common white button, but they're not quite the larger brown portobello either.
Botanically, there is not a difference between portabello and crimini mushrooms ‚ and baby bella is just another name for criminis. But in the marketplace, you'll see a difference. Mushrooms sold as portabellos are larger, and the gills are exposed and dark, because the mushroom is allowed to ripen after being picked. 
We enjoy the cremini mushrooms a lot; their slightly more mature state means that they have a browner color, firmer texture, and better flavor than the younger white mushrooms. We use them frequently in stews and soups, since we find that they hold up better in liquid. Here are a few favorite mushroom recipes: They are left to grow for longer, until they have spread out into that delicious meaty cap. • The cremini mushroom, then, is just in between these two varieties. It's a moderately mature version of the white button mushroom, which is why it has a similar flavor. It's younger than the portobello, but still related, which is why these are sometimes sold as baby bella or baby portobello mushrooms.
Agaricus bisporus is an edible basidiomycete mushroom native to grasslands in Europe and North America. It has two color states while immature —white and brown—both of which have various names. When mature, it is known as portobello mushroom, often shortened to just portobello. When immature and brown, this mushroom may be known variously as Swiss brown mushroom, Roman brown mushroom, Italian brown, Italian mushroom, cremini or crimini mushroom, brown cap mushroom, or chestnut mushroom.
We have been buying a lot of cremini mushrooms lately. They're in the bin next to the more familiar little white button mushrooms, and they're slightly more expensive but oh so worth it. We got curious about this new favorite mushroom, and decided to look up a few mushroom facts. Here's what we discovered. They are left to grow for longer, until they have spread out into that delicious meaty cap. • The cremini mushroom, then, is just in between these two varieties. It's a moderately mature version of the white button mushroom, which is why it has a similar flavor. It's younger than the portobello, but still related, which is why these are sometimes sold as baby bella or baby portobello mushrooms
Like other mushrooms, crimini (baby bella) mushrooms are a type of fungus. Shaped like regular white button mushrooms, they are darker and drier and offer a deliciously earthy flavor and meaty texture. When criminis grow to full size, they’re called portobellos. 