Arabia now encourages the development of industries other than oil in order to make its. economy stronger. Turkey Of Israel, Saudi Arabia, and Turkey, Turkey has the least amount of economic freedom. The government of Turkey controls the country’s economy. Turkey’s economy, however, is not a pure command economy. Turkey’s economy is developed and a mixed economy. Oil is the most profitable resource in the Southwest Asia. Many Southwest Asian nations get most of their wealth from oil exports. Other nations, like Israel, Lebanon, and Turkey, are not rich in oil, and so they must export other products.
Saudi Arabia has 20% of the known oil reserves in the world. With its oil they have a national GDP of $657 billion and a per capita GDP (PPP) of 25,700. With this revenue stream the country has become the largest rentier economy in the world. 
Saudi Arabia has the 19th largest economy in the world by nominal gross domestic product (GDP) at $745.273 billion and 11th by purchasing power parity (PPP) at $906.8 billion. The nation also has one of the better growth rates in the world, at about 5.13 percent. Saudi Arabia's economy is deeply rooted in its petroleum production. The nation has roughly 18 percent of the world's confirmed oil supplies and is the number one oil exporter in the world. Oil production accounts for virtually all of Saudi Arabia's government revenues and export earnings. Saudi Arabia is a member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), the World Trade Organization (WTO), G-20, the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and a number of other international and regional economic organizations.
Saudi Arabia, like the United States is a Capitalist Economy but the government does interfere with economy to regulate it. This is just like in USA where this happens in many … incidents like FDR's New Deal. The Wahhabi Is … lamic Religion does have influence on the government, but all final decisions rest with the King. Answer 2 Saudi Arabia is an unlimited government. It is an absolute monarchy in which the royal family has no limits on what kinds of actions they can take or impose.
Answer 1 Saudi Arabia is an Absolute Monarchy (a monarchy is ruled by a king or queen), with a strong religious clergy. Kings and queens are born into power. The Wahhabi Is … lamic Religion does have influence on the government, but all final decisions rest with the King. Answer 2 Saudi Arabia is an unlimited government. It is an absolute monarchy in which the royal family has no limits on what kinds of actions they can take or impose.
Saudi Arabia Saudi Arabia has a mixed economy. Though much of Saudi Arabia is desert, the country has rich oil reserves that allow the Saudis to buy most of the goods they cannot produce themselves. The Saudi king and his advisors make most of the decisions about how and where to use oil profits. Oil is the most profitable resource in the Southwest Asia. Many Southwest Asian nations get most of their wealth from oil exports. Other nations, like Israel, Lebanon, and Turkey, are not rich in oil, and so they must export other products.
Saudi Arabia: Command Economy which is powered through oil. Israel: Advanced Market Economy which is supported by it's people, not oil or other resources. Turkey: Advanced … Market Economy which is supported by it's people, not oil or other resources. The Wahhabi Is … lamic Religion does have influence on the government, but all final decisions rest with the King. Answer 2 Saudi Arabia is an unlimited government. It is an absolute monarchy in which the royal family has no limits on what kinds of actions they can take or impose.
Saudi oil reserves are the second largest in the world, and Saudi Arabia is the world's leading oil exporter and second largest producer. Proven reserves, according to figures provided by the Saudi government, are estimated to be 260 billion barrels (41 km 3), about one-quarter of world oil reserves. Petroleum in Saudi Arabia is not only plentiful but under pressure and close to the earth's surface. Another 40% of GDP comes from the private sector. An estimated 7.5 (2013) million foreigners work legally in Saudi Arabia, playing a crucial role in the Saudi economy, for example, in the oil and service sectors.
Saudi Arabia possesses 18% of the world's proven petroleum reserves, ranks as the largest exporter of petroleum, and played a leading role in OPEC for many years. The petroleum sector accounts for almost all of Saudi government revenues, and export earnings. Another 40% of GDP comes from the private sector. An estimated 7.5 (2013) million foreigners work legally in Saudi Arabia, playing a crucial role in the Saudi economy, for example, in the oil and service sectors.
The type of economy Saudi Arabia has is a command economy. 19 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Prioktan 918. 729,295 Contributions. My major at university concerned the history of the Islamic World with a particular emphasis on Middle Eastern History. Answer 2 Saudi Arabia is an unlimited government. It is an absolute monarchy in which the royal family has no limits on what kinds of actions they can take or impose. There are no internal checks on their authority, nor are their protections behind which Saudis can claim that they have been illegitimately treated.