Roundhead was the name given to the supporters of the Parliament of England during the English Civil War. Also known as Parliamentarians, they fought against Charles I of England and his supporters, the Cavaliers or Royalists, who claimed rule by absolute monarchy and the divine right of kings. The goal of the Roundhead party was to give the Parliament supreme control over executive administration. During the war and for a time afterwards, Roundhead was a term of derision —in the New Model Army it was a punishable offence to call a fellow soldier a Roundhead. This contrasted with the term Cavalier to describe supporters of the Royalist cause.
The Roundheads were a group in the English Civil War who promoted a Republican commonwealth instead of a monarchy. The term was actually pejorative, and members of this group would not have used it to describe themselves. “Roundhead” is more catchy than “Parliamentarian,” their official title, and many historians of the English Civil War still refer to the parliamentary faction by this name. The English Civil War was an important event in British history, marked by a major uprising against the traditional system of monarchy in Britain.
The Roundheads were not killed in combat but probably by infectious disease during the gruelling English Civil War siege of the city. Leader: Oliver Cromwell led the Roundhead cavalry. Their comrades went on to defeat King Charles I's Cavaliers at the Battle of Marston Moor in 1644 and turn the tide of the war. 
at first lord Manchester and Lord Essex lead the roundheads but after the first battle Oliver Cromwell was put in charge. This was very effective as it meant that the soldiers knew how to handle themselves in a battle situation and eventually helped the Roundheads' to win the Civil War. Soldiers were also paid the equivalent of 10p a day, something which often stopped them from deserting! Hope this helped.
Roundhead was the name given to the supporters of Parliament during the English Civil War. Also known as Parliamentarians led by Oliver Cromwell-Its reported the Name came … in to being because of the basin haircut sported by these people Royalist supporters of King Charles were named Cavilers. They were given this nickname because of their hairstyle. The Royalists … /Cavaliers had long hair, often in ringlets, while the Parliamentarians (Puritans and Roundheads) wore their hair short in a pageboy like style.
Oliver Cromwell (1599–1658) was a farmer and Member of Parliament. In the English Civil War he proved himself to be a brilliant soldier. He and his armored troopers became known as Ironsides. He led a savage invasion of Catholic Ireland in 1649. From 1642 to 1648 people in the British Isles were split by a war between King Charles I and Parliament. The king was said to be influenced by his wife, a French Catholic.
A Roundhead was a soldier who supported the Parliamentarian cause during the English Civil War. They were given this nickname because of their hairstyle. The Royalists … /Cavaliers had long hair, often in ringlets, while the Parliamentarians (Puritans and Roundheads) wore their hair short in a pageboy like style.
The Roundheads military aspects, support and leadership played a significant part in their victory in the Civil War, but the incompetence and disorganisation of the Cavaliers was equally important. The exceedingly better military organization and tactics of the Roundheads contributed to their win over the Cavaliers. Furthermore, the Roundheads discipline within their army also played a significant role, as the cavaliers indiscipline was evident from their incompetence shown in battles.
Although, in the end the Roundheads leader, Oliver Cromwell demonstrated the leadership role that allowed the Roundheads victory as he imposed good conduct among his men while Prince Rupert, the Cavaliers leader showed incompetence. The exceedingly better military organization and tactics of the Roundheads contributed to their win over the Cavaliers. Furthermore, the Roundheads discipline within their army also played a significant role, as the cavaliers indiscipline was evident from their incompetence shown in battles.