Tropical Rainforest Plants & Soil. The phrase tropical rainforest conjures up images of lush, thick vegetation. That is an accurate perception, but relatively few tropical plants actually spring from the soil. Instead, the overwhelming majority of tropical rainforest plants live in trees.
Tropical Rainforest The tropical rainforest is a hot, moist biome found near Earth's equator. The world's largest tropical rainforests are in South America, Africa, and Southeast Asia. Tropical rainforests receive from 60 to 160 inches of precipitation that is fairly evenly distributed throughout the year. 
More recent volcanic soils, however, can be very fertile. Tropical rain forest soils contain less organic matter than temperate forests and most of the available nutrients are found in the living plant and animal material. Nutrients in the soil are often in forms that are not accessible by plants. Constant warmth and moisture promote rapid decay of organic matter. 
Soils. The bulk of the world's tropical rainforests, including the Amazon, contain laterite soils. Such soils lack nutrients and are very acidic. Many tropical rainforest soils lack minerals such as calcium, magnesium, phosphorous and potassium, making them old soils in the sense that they have no new nutrients. An abundance of iron and aluminum oxide gives tropical rainforest soils its red or yellow coloring. The phrase tropical rainforest conjures up images of lush, thick vegetation. That is an accurate perception, but relatively few tropical plants actually spring from the soil. Instead, the overwhelming majority of tropical rainforest plants live in trees.
A tropical rainforest is a biome type that occurs roughly within the latitudes 28 degrees north or south of the equator (in the equatorial zone between the Tropic of Cancer and Tropic of Capricorn). 
Winter is absent in these forests. Most tropical rainforests receive 100 inches of rain per year. Soil: Because the temperature is warm and the air moist, decomposition happens at a very fast rate in tropical rainforests. Soil: The soil in these forests is very fertile. Plants: The forest floor in temperate deciduous forests supports mosses, ferns and wildflowers and the understory supports a variety of shrubs and ferns. Maple, oak and birch trees are some examples of the deciduous trees that dominate
The Tropical Rainforest. The tropical rainforest is a forest type that captures huge attention from the public. It is undoubtedly one of the most fascinating interactions between climate, vegetation and organisms, and soil that exists in the world today. The rainforests which previously occupied up to 24 million square kilometres today occupy only some 10 million square kilometres on either side of the equator. The tropical rainforest is often in the news for various reasons. There are major concerns about deforestation of it and the consequent damage to the soil. From a soil point of view, cutting down of the rainforest disturbs the natural soil-plant cycle and makes the soils extremely vulnerable to soil.
The soil in the tropical rain forest is very nutrient poor. It's poor because the topsoil is only one to two inches thick and the soil beneath it is mostly clay and rocks. It … also has been here for millions of years so the soil gas taken quite a beating. Plus, when it rains the water washes away all the minerals. Soil fertility in tropical rainforest soils is low. This is because of the warm climate and the availability of water, both of which increase microbial activity, chemical reaction times, and the leaching of soluble soil constituents.
Soil of Tropical Rainforest. The soil found in the tropical rainforest is very nutrient poor. This is due to the many decomposers and plants in need of any nutrients available, so they don't stay in the soil for long. The rain has left it acidic and lacking in minerals. The topsoil is very thin at only 1 to 2 inches deep