Banting refers to a diet plan popularized by a man named William Banting back in 1862. It was said that Mr. Banting sought the help of Dr. William Harvey with regards to his obesity problems. He needed medical advice so he could lose some weight and become healthier. It was Dr. Harvey who first made the suggestion that Banting should take the low-carbohydrate approach to dieting. Later on, both Dr. Harvey and William Banting found out that the new diet plan actually worked in terms of controlling weight problems. Banting’s original diet plan involved four meals a day that included consumption of red meat, fish, or poultry along with glasses of wine, some fruit and dry toast.
What is Banting – A simple guide. Here at Sleekgeek we try not to recommend any one specific type of diet as we strongly believe our place in this health movement is providing community-based support and resources. 1 There are a great many different vegetables on the Green List. 2  Make sure that you have variety in your diet. 3  Don’t snack. 4  For the first week or so of banting, that is, when you are going carb-cold-turkey, you may need to snack periodically, if only to keep your sanity.
In 1923 Banting and John James Rickard Macleod received the Nobel Prize in Medicine. Banting shared the award money with his colleague, Dr. Charles Best. As of September 2011, Banting, who received the Nobel Prize at age 32, remains the youngest Nobel laureate in the area of Physiology/Medicine. Banting was appointed Senior Demonstrator in Medicine at the University of Toronto in 1922. The following year he was elected to the new Banting and Best Chair of Medical Research, endowed by the Legislature of the Province of Ontario.
Frederick G. Banting-Biographical. Frederick Grant Banting was born on November 14, 1891, at Alliston, Ont., Canada. He was the youngest of five children of William Thompson Banting and Margaret Grant. In 1922 Banting had been appointed Senior Demonstrator in Medicine at the University of Toronto, and in 1923 he was elected to the Banting and Best Chair of Medical Research, which had been endowed by the Legislature of the Province of Ontario.
Banting (right) with Charles H. Best, ca. 1924. An article he read about the pancreas piqued Banting's interest in diabetes. Banting had to give a talk on the pancreas to one of his classes at Western University on November 1, 1920, and he was therefore reading reports that other scientists had written. Banting was appointed Senior Demonstrator in Medicine at the University of Toronto in 1922. The following year he was elected to the new Banting and Best Chair of Medical Research, endowed by the Legislature of the Province of Ontario.
Canadian scientist. Born in Allison, Ontario, and educated at the University of Toronto, Banting undertook research on the internal secretion of the pancreas, and in 1921, with Charles Herbert Best, he discovered insulin. Banting and J. J. R. Macleod shared the Nobel prize for medicine in 1923. 
William Banting (c. December 1796 – 16 March 1878) was a notable English undertaker. Formerly obese, he is also known for being the first to popularise a weight loss diet based on limiting intake of refined and easily digestible carbohydrates. Banting’s pamphlet was popular for years to come, and would be used as a model for modern diets. Initially, he published the booklet at his personal expense. The self-published edition was so popular that he determined to sell it to the general public. The third and later editions were published by Harrison, London.
Banting is a low-carbohydrate, high-fat (LCHF) diet, named after William Banting, the first person to do it. It’s recently been made popular by Professor Tim Noakes in his book The Real Meal Revolution. The idea is that this way of eating makes your body switch from burning carbs for energy to burning fat. 2. 
We believe that Tim Noake’s Real Meal Revolution and Banting approach truly has people’s best interest at heart and is in accordance with the latest high-quality research on topics such as sugar and carbohydrate overconsumption, saturated fat, cholesterol, Diabetes, metabolic syndrome, and so on. 1 There are a great many different vegetables on the Green List. 2  Make sure that you have variety in your diet. 3  Don’t snack. 4  For the first week or so of banting, that is, when you are going carb-cold-turkey, you may need to snack periodically, if only to keep your sanity.
Our Banting Support Discussion Group on Facebook is a safe place to engage with other like-minded individuals on the topic of Banting, Real Meal Revolution, and Low-Carb High-Fat nutrition in general. 1 There are a great many different vegetables on the Green List. 2  Make sure that you have variety in your diet. 3  Don’t snack. 4  For the first week or so of banting, that is, when you are going carb-cold-turkey, you may need to snack periodically, if only to keep your sanity.