1 They can cause harmful physical and mental effects. 2  List of Opioid Agonist Drugs-Opiate agonists bind to opiate receptors in the brain to help reduce withdrawal symptoms and more. 3  These medications are often used in treating opiate addiction. Opiate antagonists work in a way that is almost completely different from how opiate agonists work. When introduced into a patient’s bloodstream the opiate antagonists don’t bond with the opiate receptors present in the patient’s body; instead they block the receptors completely.
An opioid antagonist, or opioid receptor antagonist, is a receptor antagonist that acts on opioid receptors. Naloxone and naltrexone are commonly used opioid antagonist drugs which are competitive antagonists that bind to the opioid receptors with higher affinity than agonists but do not activate the receptors. This effectively blocks the receptor, preventing the body from responding to opioids and endorphins. Naloxone on the other hand has no partial agonist effects, and is in fact a partial inverse agonist at mu opioid receptors, and so is the preferred antidote drug for treating opioid overdose.
The group includes drugs which act as an agonist or partial agonist at one receptor and an antagonist at another (pentazocine, butorphanol, nalbuphine, dezocine) and drugs acting as a partial agonist at a single receptor (buprenorphine). These drugs can be classified as nalorphine-like or morphine-like. (1)Royal Marsden Hospital, London, England. The agonist-antagonist opioid analgesics are a heterogeneous group of drugs with moderate to strong analgesic activity comparable to that of the pure agonist opioids such as codeine and morphine but with a limited effective dose range.
An antagonist is an agent that binds to a receptor but does not elicit the response that the neurotransmitter or an agonist would cause. The antagonist blocks the receptor and prevemts activation by neurotransmitters or other drugs. So in the case of opiates, lets look at the opiate agonist, morphine. When morphine enters the brain, it binds to opiate receptors and activates them. This binding is what produces the effects of Morphin
A drug that is an agonist attaches itself to receptors in the brain, and then produces a chemical reaction. For example, heroin is an opioid agonist. It binds to opioid receptors that control pleasure and pain, the result being a feeling of euphoria and well being. Agonist Therapy vs Antagonist Therapy. Agonist and Antagonist therapies are effective evidence-based options in the medical treatment of drug addiction. A simple way to think about these concepts is that agonist therapy creates an action while antagonist therapy opposes an action.
Home » Opiate Agonist. Opiate agonists are drugs that mimic the effects of naturally-occurring endorphins in the body, and produce an opiate effect by interacting with the opioid receptor sites. Examples of opiate agonists include methadone and LAAM. These synthetic opiates help prevent cravings and withdrawal but do not produce a high or feelings of euphoria. An opiate antagonist is a drug that replaces opiate agonists at the receptor sites. This blocks the patient from experiencing the opiate effects of the agonist drug. Opiate antagonists include naloxone and naltrexone. Methadone is used therapeutically to treat addiction to opiates including heroin, morphine, OxyContin and other drugs. In the treatment of chronic opiate addiction, an opiate agonist can be used as maintenance therapy
Benefits of Opioid Agonist Drugs. Opioid agonists interact with the brain’s opiate receptors. Opioid addiction causes an overwhelming compulsion to use the drug and increased tolerance levels have left people destitute, homeless, or shattered financially and in their relationships with others.
An opiate antagonist is a medication that blocks the opiate receptors, therefore blocking the effects of the opiate. Antagonists such as naltrexone, naloxone or buprenorphine are often used to combat the overdose effects of an opiate or to help break an addiction to an opiate medication. 
1 - Many of the most addictive opiates are often opioid agonist drugs. 2  They can cause harmful physical and mental effects. 3  Understanding the Use of an Opioid Agonist-Find out about the various ways that opioid agonists are useful in the treatment of substance abuse. Opioid agonists interact with the brain’s opiate receptors. Opioid addiction causes an overwhelming compulsion to use the drug and increased tolerance levels have left people destitute, homeless, or shattered financially and in their relationships with others.