Statutory Maternity Pay (SMP). To qualify for SMP you must: 1  earn on average at least £112 a week. 2  give the correct notice. 3  give proof you’re pregnant. 4  have worked for your employer continuously for at least 26 weeks up to the ‘qualifying week’ - the 15th week before the expected week of childbirth. 
Best Answer: first find out if your company pays contractual maternity pay, if they do then it varies from company to company. if not the you can apply for SMP statutory maternity pay http://www.direct.gov.uk/Bfsl1/BenefitsA... If your expected week of childbirth is on or after April 1st 2007, the law will have changed and you are entitled to one year no matter how long your service with a company has been. Before that date, the old law entitles everyone to 26 weeks, but only those with 26 weeks continuous service to the full 52 weeks.
Report Abuse. in the uk you have had to been with the company 26 weeks before you become pregnant to be untitled to maternity pay not sure about leave it may be the same. rosieange · 7 years ago. Rating Newest Oldest. To qualify for maternity benefits you need to have worked 600 hours, doesnt matter how long you work as long as you have that number of hours. At 40 hours a week its only like 15 weeks
To claim your right to maternity leave, you must tell your employer about your pregnancy no later than 15 weeks before your baby is due. You can work this out by finding the Sunday before your baby is due, and then counting back 15 weeks. You should tell your employer: Your employer may want you to put this in writing. You can start maternity leave any time from 11 weeks before the beginning of the week your baby's due. You can bring the date forward if you need to take time off work for pregnancy-related reasons within four weeks of the expected birth date. Your employer may make you start your leave from then.
To get the allowance, you have to be employed or self-employed and pay Class 2 National Insurance contributions. Other conditions are that you were employed or self-employed for at least 26 of the 66 weeks before the week your baby was due and you earned an average of £30 over any 13 of those 66 weeks. The standard rate of Maternity Allowance is £128.73 or 90% of your average weekly earnings, whichever is less. Helping hand: Maternity pay means working mums can take time off to care for their newborn-but it's not much and it is taxed. You are entitled to up to 39 weeks of statutory maternity pay. The first six weeks of this is paid at 90% of your salary, after which you get £128.73 per week.
In the Uk, they don't have to keep paying you! After you have been there 26 weeks you are entitled to 26 weeks Satutory Maternity Pay (SMP). Don't get too excited about this tho, its 90% of your salary for 6 weeks, then it drops to approx £120 a week. Less tax etc... If your expected week of childbirth is on or after April 1st 2007, the law will have changed and you are entitled to one year no matter how long your service with a company has been. Before that date, the old law entitles everyone to 26 weeks, but only those with 26 weeks continuous service to the full 52 weeks.
in the uk you have had to been with the company 26 weeks before you become pregnant to be untitled to maternity pay not sure about leave it may be the same. Rating Newest Oldest. To qualify for maternity benefits you need to have worked 600 hours, doesnt matter how long you work as long as you have that number of hours. At 40 hours a week its only like 15 weeks
Bridezilla. my company states you need to have worked there for 26 weeks when you are 15 weeks before your expected due date. so need to be there 1 week before you get pregnant. you DO NOT need to tell your employers are pregnant anyway until later on (just say you didnt know). 