Requirements. Education. The first step in the education of a school counselor is to obtain a bachelor's degree-usually in counseling, psychology, education or social work, though a degree in a related field can be acceptable. Once classroom training is complete, the majority of counseling programs require an internship or mentoring program, where the candidate is paired with an experienced counselor to learn through observation. Some states require this mentorship stage as a condition for employment or licensure.
Social work programs with a focus in counseling prepare students to become Licensed Clinical Social Workers, while programs for school counselors focus specifically on counseling in the school environment. Step 1: Earn a Bachelor's Degree. A prospective counselor will begin his or her education with a bachelor's degree. A student may choose a related major, such as psychology, education or social work, or he or she may choose an unrelated major.
Training to become a counsellor or learning relationship skills can be extremely beneficial and rewarding to you both personally and professionally. It is recognised that these capabilities have become an indispensable and much-valued part of modern day life and provide a way of making a genuine difference to people. 
In order to become a student member of BACP, you must be training on a counselling or psychotherapy course that is undertaken via face to face classroom tuition and is a minimum of one year full time or two year part time with a supervised placement that is a minimum of 100 hours. If you have decided that you want to begin a career in counselling or psychotherapy, you will need to think about what type of counsellor or psychotherapist you want to become. There are many different approaches which can be generally categorised as behavioural, humanistic or psychoanalytic.
Counselors can work with people of all ages from children to adolescents to adults. The typical work of a counselor may include offering support to families or couples facing difficulties or guiding adolescents and young adults who are making decisions about their education, career options or their future. Step 1: Earn a Bachelor's Degree. A prospective counselor will begin his or her education with a bachelor's degree. A student may choose a related major, such as psychology, education or social work, or he or she may choose an unrelated major.
Training. Once classroom training is complete, the majority of counseling programs require an internship or mentoring program, where the candidate is paired with an experienced counselor to learn through observation. Some states require this mentorship stage as a condition for employment or licensure.
Our comprehensive Training Counselor Development Workshops train experienced instructors how to become facilitators and to teach experienced shooters how to teach firearm safety and shooting skills to others, using the NRA instructional methodologies and training materials. To be eligible to attend a Training Counselor Development Workshop, you need to be an NRA Certified Instructor for a minimum of 18 months, conducted a minimum of five NRA courses (as the lead trainer), have taught a minimum of 25 students, and successfully reported your training activity at NRAInstructors.org.
BACP has assessed and awarded accreditation to just under 100 courses. Search for a BACP Accredited Training Course. If you are interested in finding out more about training to become a counsellor or psychotherapist, you can call BACP on 01455 883300 or email bacp@bacp.co.uk. Alternatively, if you would like a training pack emailed to you please text your name and email address to 01455 560606. If you have decided that you want to begin a career in counselling or psychotherapy, you will need to think about what type of counsellor or psychotherapist you want to become. There are many different approaches which can be generally categorised as behavioural, humanistic or psychoanalytic.
Becoming a Counsellor/Psychotherapist. Below is the three stage training structure or route BACP would recommend for counsellor/psychotherapist training. It is only a guideline to try and help you and the BACP can only recommend specific BACP accredited courses as we have seen the course criteria. 
In general, most school counselors begin their careers with a bachelor’s degree in areas such as counseling, education, or psychology. When pursuing a school counseling career, you’ll most likely also be required to earn at least a master’s degree in school counseling or education psychology. Teachers may enlist the help of school counselors at times as well. They may ask for help with a problem student, for instance, or work with a school counselor to help a student with a particular problem. School counselors may also be asked to help with ho to discipline students as well.