Primary brain tumors are classified by the type of tissue in which they arise. The most common brain tumors are gliomas, which begin in the glial (supportive) tissue. There are several types of gliomas, including the following: 1  Astrocytomas arise from small, star-shaped cells called astrocytes. 2  They may grow anywhere in the brain or spinal cord.
There are many more neuroglial cells than neurons in the brain, and neuroglia are involved in over half of all brain tumors. Tumors arising from neuroglial or glial cells are referred to generally as gliomas but will often take their more specific names from the type of glial cell involved.
(also glia), the group of interstitial cells whose cell bodies and outgrowths fill the spaces in the brain and spinal cord between the capillary blood vessels and the nerve cells, or neurons. Each neuron is surrounded by several neuroglial cells.
Cells of the Brain and Spinal Cord. Like all living tissue, the brain and spinal cord are made up of cells, which in turn have characteristics and names unique to their function. The cells unique to the central nervous system are neurons and neuroglia.
Adenoma. A benign tumor that starts in gland-like cells of the epithelial (cells that line cavities and surfaces of the body) tissue. Astrocytoma. A benign or malignant tumor that begins in the brain or spinal cord in small, star-shaped cells called astrocytes.
The term “brain tumor” encompasses a wide range of tumors growing from many different types of cells; each type of tumor has individual characteristics. Many aggressive and challenging brain tumors grow from glial cells (or glia).
1 Astrocytomas arise from small, star-shaped cells called astrocytes. 2  They may grow anywhere in the brain or spinal cord. 3  In adults, astrocytomas most often arise in the cerebrum. 4  In children, they occur in the brain stem, the cerebrum, and the cerebellum.
This type of tumor arises from astrocytes, star-shaped cells that play several roles in the brain. Astrocytes are supportive components of the brain’s “white matter,” the tissue containing the electrochemical “transmission lines” that connect nerve cells.