PNET (primitive neuroectodermal tumor) is a name used for tumors which appear identical under the microscope to medulloblastoma, but occur primarily in the cerebrum. PNET is used by some to refer to tumors such as the pineoblastoma, polar spongioblastoma, medulloblastoma, and medulloepithelioma. Except for medulloblastoma, these are all very rare tumors. Location. PNETs occur primarily in the cerebrum, but can spread to other parts of the brain and spine.
Overview. If your child has been experiencing seizures that don’t respond to medication, a possible cause may be a dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor (DNT). This is a rare, benign type of tumor that occurs in the tissues that cover the brain and spinal cord. The outlook for a child with DNT is generally good. As you read further below, you will find general information about dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumors (DNT). 
The DNET is a benign mass of the cerebral cortex and usually evokes seizures. 3 criteria should be fufilled to reach the diagnosis: Seizures before the 20th year of life., no neurological or cognitive deficit, cortical tumor. The tumor can be localized, however, in the basal ganglia, in the brain stem or cerebellum. 
Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumors (DNET) are benign, localized lesions that typically cause localization-related epilepsy of childhood onset. 
Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumours (DNET) are benign (WHO Grade I) slow growing tumours arising from either cortical or deep grey matter. The vast majority are centered in cortical grey matter, arise from secondary germinal layers and are frequently associated with cortical dysplasia (up to 80% of cases). The temporal lobe is the most common location, but all parts of the CNS containing grey matter are potential locations. 1  temporal lobe: over 60% of cases. 2  frontal lobe: 30% of cases. 3  caudate nucleus.
An epidermoid tumor is a rare, benign neoplasm of the brain. It is congenital and is formed by skin cells that are in the wrong place during fetal development. It consists of an outer covering (the capsule part of it) and an inner mixture of skin cells, and fatty acids. The brain is not invaded by the tumor, but the tumor pushes the brain as it enlarges. The slowly enlarging tumor protrudes from the internal auditory canal into an area behind the temporal bone called the cerebellopontine angle. The tumor now assumes a pear shape with the small end in the internal auditory canal.
Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumors are rare, benign tumors that occur in the tissues covering the brain and spinal cord. These tumors, found in children and teens, can cause seizures. 
Primitive neuroectodermal tumor (PNET) is a malignant (cancerous) neural crest tumor. It is a rare tumor, usually occurring in children and young adults under 25 years of age. The overall 5 year survival rate is about 53%.
Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumor is a rare tumor that occurs in children and is characterized by long-standing, intractable partial complex seizures. It typically presents with epilepsy during childhood. 
Dysembryoplastic neuroepithelial tumour, commonly abbreviated DNT or DNET, is a type of brain tumour. Defined as an usually supratentorial glial-neuronal neoplasm occurring in children and young adults and characterized by a predominantly cortical location and by drug-resistant partial seizures. 