Cellular respiration is the process that cells use to transfer energy from the organic molecules in food to ATP. The following equation summarizes the chemical changes that occur in cellular respiration of the monosaccharide glucose when oxygen is available.
Cellular respiration produces water, carbon dioxide and energy in  the form of ATP. The chemical equation for it (which shows the  products) is shown below.
Cellular Respiration is the process where living organisms gathers the energy in food molecules to make energy. Heterotrophs, organisms that must get energy from food indirectly from sunlight or inorganic substances, go through the process of cellular respiration to get the energy needed. This energy comes from food.
Water is a bi product in several cellular respiration processes including glycolosis. water is produced in step 9 from to 2-phosphoglycerate to phosphenalpyruvate. water is also a product of the citric acid cycle. these cycles are what produce the ATP required for normal cellular function.
Water is formed in the Kreb's Cycle/Citric Acid Cycle when Citric acid is converted to cis-acotinic acid. Water, however, is formed mainly during Oxidative Phosphorylation in the Cristae of the Mitochondria.
The energy released is captured in the form of ATP (3 ATP per NADH and 2 ATP per FADH 2). The electron transport chain (ETC) consists of a series of molecules, mostly proteins, embedded in the inner mitochondrial membrane. The glucose required for cellular respiration is produced by plants.
Cellular respiration is the process by which cells get their energy in the form of ATP. There are two types of cellular respiration, aerobic and anaerobic. Aerobic respiration is more efficient and can be utilized in the presence of oxygen, while anaerobic respiration does not require oxygen.
Carbon dioxide is the by-product of cellular respiration. This gas  is produced in the oxidative decarboxylation of pyruvate and as a  by-product of the citric acid cycle.
Cellular respiration is the process by which the chemical energy of food molecules is released and partially captured in the form of ATP. Carbohydrates, fats, and proteins can all be used as fuels in cellular respiration, but glucose is most commonly used as an example to examine the reactions and pathways involved.