The bark of the stately white willow tree (Salix alba) has been used in China for centuries as a medicine because of its ability to relieve pain and lower fever. Early settlers to America found Native Americans gathering bark from indigenous willow trees for similar purposes. Specifically, white willow bark may help to: Relieve acute and chronic pain, including headache, back and neck pain, muscle aches, and menstrual cramps. The effectiveness of white willow bark for easing these and other types of discomforts results from its power to lower prostaglandin levels.
Special tip: Choose supplements that are standardized to contain 40 mg salicin, the active ingredient in white willow bark. For the majority of ailments: Take one or two pills three times a day, as needed, totaling a daily dose of 60 to 120 mg of salicin. Follow package directions. Specifically, white willow bark may help to: Relieve acute and chronic pain, including headache, back and neck pain, muscle aches, and menstrual cramps. The effectiveness of white willow bark for easing these and other types of discomforts results from its power to lower prostaglandin levels.
Dosage Information. Special tip: Choose supplements that are standardized to contain 40 mg salicin, the active ingredient in white willow bark. For the majority of ailments: Take one or two pills three times a day, as needed, totaling a daily dose of 60 to 120 mg of salicin. Follow package directions. Although white willow is the species of willow tree most commonly used for medicinal purposes, other salicin-rich species are employed as well, including crack willow (Salix fragilis), purple willow (Salix purpurea), and violet willow (Salix daphnoides). These all may be sold under the label of willow bark.
Although white willow is the species of willow tree most commonly used for medicinal purposes, other salicin-rich species are employed as well, including crack willow (Salix fragilis), purple willow (Salix purpurea), and violet willow (Salix daphnoides). These all may be sold under the label of willow bark. Specifically, white willow bark may help to: Relieve acute and chronic pain, including headache, back and neck pain, muscle aches, and menstrual cramps. The effectiveness of white willow bark for easing these and other types of discomforts results from its power to lower prostaglandin levels.
The bark of the stately white willow tree (Salix alba) has been used in China for centuries as a medicine because of its ability to relieve pain and lower fever. Early settlers to America found Native Americans gathering bark from indigenous willow trees for similar purposes. Although white willow is the species of willow tree most commonly used for medicinal purposes, other salicin-rich species are employed as well, including crack willow (Salix fragilis), purple willow (Salix purpurea), and violet willow (Salix daphnoides). These all may be sold under the label of willow bark.
Willow bark comes in tablet, capsule, powder, and liquid form. A normal daily dose is between 120 to 240 mg of salicin. Studies show that willow bark can help treat lower back pain and possibly osteoarthritis (OA) pain. One study found that people with back pain who took a high, 240mg dose daily found relief from their pain.
The main chemical that gives willow bark its therapeutic effects is salicin. Experts believe that when the body processes salicin, it turns it into salicylic acid, which is the chemical precursor to aspirin. In 1928, European chemists figured out how to extract salicin and turn it into salicylic acid. Studies show that willow bark can help treat lower back pain and possibly osteoarthritis (OA) pain. One study found that people with back pain who took a high, 240mg dose daily found relief from their pain.
The white willow bark is a tree indigenous to Europe and Asia and has leaves that are coated with fine white hair. There are several benefits of white willow due to it containing the compound known as salicin, and it’s been utilized when treating human conditions like osteoarthritis, pain, back pain, the flu, and more. 
Willow bark acts a lot like aspirin, so it is used for pain, including headache, muscle pain, menstrual cramps, rheumatoid arthritis (RA), osteoarthritis, gout, and a disease of the spine called ankylosing spondylitis. Willow bark’s pain relieving potential has been recognized throughout history. The following doses have been studied in scientific research: BY MOUTH 1  : For back pain: Willow bark extract providing 120-240 mg salicin has been used. 2  The higher 240 mg dose might be more effective.