The most common instruments used for measuring noise are the sound level meter (SLM), the integrating sound level meter (ISLM), and the noise dosimeter. It is important that you understand the calibration, operation and reading the instrument you use. The second step is to determine personal noise exposure levels; that is, the amount of noise to which individual employees are exposed. If the workplace noise remains steady, noise survey data can be used to determine employee exposures.
The integrating sound level meter (ISLM) can be used to measure equivalent noise level averaged over the measurement period which could be several minutes, a few hours or an entire work shift. In this respect it is similar to a dosimeter used as area monitor. The second step is to determine personal noise exposure levels; that is, the amount of noise to which individual employees are exposed. If the workplace noise remains steady, noise survey data can be used to determine employee exposures.
1 Divide noise into its frequency components. 2  Some sound level meters may have an octave or one-third octave band filter attached or integrated into the instrument. 3  Usually a Type 1 (precision) sound level meter is used for octave and one-third octave analysis. Like a sound level meter, a noise dosimeter can also measure sound levels. However, the dosimeter is actually worn by the employee in order to determine the personal noise dose during the workshift or sampling period. Dosimeters can be used to:
1 The true peak value is the maximum value of the noise waveform. 2  The impulse measurement is an integrated measurement. 3  The true peak reading should only be used when determining compliance with OSHA's 140 dB peak sound pressure level [ 29 CFR 1910.95(b)(1) or 29 CFR 1926.52(e) ]. Like a sound level meter, a noise dosimeter can also measure sound levels. However, the dosimeter is actually worn by the employee in order to determine the personal noise dose during the workshift or sampling period. Dosimeters can be used to:
A sound level meter is an instrument that can measure sound level, commonly used in noise pollution studies for the quantification of different kinds of noise, especially for industrial, environmental and aircraft noise. A common variant of the sound level meter is a noise dosemeter (dosimeter in American English). However, this is now formally known as a personal sound exposure meter (PSEM) and has its own International standard IEC 61252:1993.
slow measurement response: the exponential-time-averaging done in a sound level meter every 1000 milliseconds. Slow time response has been used in conjunction with C-weighting when measuring blast noise or other low frequency impulse sources and is available in most types of sound level meters. MPCA Impulse Noise Study: FINAL REPORT, MAY 1991. impulse noise ranging from:  no level for impulse noise is too low to be ignored to: lack of an impulse standard does not place the public's hearing in jeopardy .
(c) Impact or impulse noise shall be measured as dB(P) sound pressure levels with. sound level meters which have an impulse or peak hold circuit, a rise time. constant not exceeding 35 milliseconds, and the capability to measure peak sound. pressure levels of at least 140 dB(P). 
Sound Level Meters. Whether you need a simple optimus yellow for community noise checks, an optimus red for OSHA compliance and occupational noise measurements or an optimus green for outdoor and environmental noise measurements, we can provide you with the solution that matches your needs. Class/Type 2 Sound Level Meters. The optimus green are the part of the optimus family and are designed for environmental, occupational, industrial and simple noise applications.
1 Some sound level meters may have an octave or one-third octave band filter attached or integrated into the instrument. 2  Usually a Type 1 (precision) sound level meter is used for octave and one-third octave analysis. 3  The filters are used to analyze the frequency content of noise. Like a sound level meter, a noise dosimeter can also measure sound levels. However, the dosimeter is actually worn by the employee in order to determine the personal noise dose during the workshift or sampling period. Dosimeters can be used to:
Noise survey is conducted in areas where noise exposure is likely to be hazardous. Noise level refers to the level of sound. A noise survey involves measuring noise level at selected locations throughout an entire plant or sections to identify noisy areas. This is usually done with a sound level meter (SLM). The second step is to determine personal noise exposure levels; that is, the amount of noise to which individual employees are exposed. If the workplace noise remains steady, noise survey data can be used to determine employee exposures.