And there may be some people who don’t want to loose any important mails sent to them. Luckily you can now combine the multiple accounts from your single gmail account. (Practically it’s not combing your email accounts, it just forwarding the mails to your single main email account from all other email accounts. 
Hello, I created a Outlook email account and I have a other outlook email address that used to be a Hotmail address. Before I knew that you can rename a Outlook account I created another account with the same name. Is it possible to merge the two accounts. Thanks,
Note: if you're adding a new Gmail address to your Google Account, you can't choose an existing Gmail username (even if you delete the other account with Gmail, you can't reuse the Gmail username.). Share this: Kaley is on the Accounts support team and author of this help page. It isn't currently possible to merge separate Google Accounts. However, if you'd like transfer your data from one account to another, this may be done on a per product basis.
Currently, we don't have a feature to merge two email accounts to have one inbox. I suggest that you try to add it on your other account as a send only account, be informed that you will be unable to receive messages from the send only account as you can only send with it. Welcome to Microsoft Community. I understand that you want to merge the two email accounts that you have created so that you have one inbox to view the email messages in your account and I'm here to assist you. I would like to inform you that the change from Hotmail to Outlook interface is purely in appearance but with different features from Hotmail
You can specify your default email address from the Accounts and Import settings pane. You could also use Google’s multiple sign-in feature if each email address was a Gmail one, but that still leaves you with multiple inboxes to switch between. Send As. Getting all your emails into one inbox is only half the battle. Once you have, go into the Settings screen on your main email address, click the Accounts and Import tab and use the “ Add Another Email Address You Own ” link. You can add any email address you own, even if it doesn’t support the SMTP protocol.
released a new feature for Gmail this week called Gmail Delegation that lets you merge multiple accounts together. While Google's pitch is that it allows busy executives to share their inbox with assistants, it's actually a perfect feature for people with more than one Gmail account. You can link your Gmail accounts to one primary account to avoid the hassle of logging in and out of Gmail every time you want to check a different inbox. The service gives you full access to the shared Gmail account. You can reply to e-mail, view contacts, and add labels to messages as if it were your own account. We tested Delegation out and it works very well, aside from the fact that you have to wait about 30 minutes for each account to link
Just go into the Accounts and Import section in Gmail’s settings and click the “ Add a POP3 mail account you own ” link. Enter the email address of your other email account. You’ll have to provide the mail account’s POP settings. You can get this information from the other email service. Send As. Getting all your emails into one inbox is only half the battle. Once you have, go into the Settings screen on your main email address, click the Accounts and Import tab and use the “ Add Another Email Address You Own ” link. You can add any email address you own, even if it doesn’t support the SMTP protocol.