NOx is a generic term for the mono-nitrogen oxides NO and NO 2 (nitric oxide and nitrogen dioxide). They are produced from the reaction among nitrogen, oxygen and even hydrocarbons (during combustion), especially at high temperatures. In areas of high motor vehicle traffic, such as in large cities, the amount of nitrogen oxides emitted into the atmosphere as air pollution can be significant.
Nitrogen oxides form when fuel is burned at high temperatures, as in a combustion process. The primary sources of NOx are motor vehicles, electric utilities, and other industrial, commercial, and residential sources that burn fuels. Sources Major sources of nitrogen oxides include: • Fuel combustion in power plants and automobiles. • Processes used in chemical plants. Health Effects NOx causes a wide variety of health and environmental impacts because of various compounds and derivatives in the family of nitrogen oxides, including nitrogen dioxide, nitric acid, nitrous oxide, nitrates, and nitric oxide.
Sources of NOx Pollution. NOx is produced from the reaction of nitrogen and oxygen gases in the air during combustion, especially at high temperatures. In areas of high motor vehicle traffic, such as in large cities, the amount of nitrogen oxides emitted into the atmosphere as air pollution can be significant. NOx gases react to form smog and acid rain as well as being central to the formation of fine particles (PM) and ground level ozone, both of which are associated with adverse health effects.. NOx is produced from the reaction of nitrogen and oxygen gases in the air during combustion, especially at high temperatures.
Most of the gas in Earth's atmosphere is nitrogen. About 4/5ths of the air is nitrogen. The nitrogen cycle explains how nitrogen moves around in the environment. When fuel burns hot, like it does in the engine of a car, nitrogen combines with oxygen to make nitrogen oxides. 
1 • Ozone (O3) is an extremely reactive gas molecule composed of three oxygen atoms. • 2  Ozone forms in chemical reactions in the atmosphere when nitrogen oxides (NOx) and volatile organic compounds (VOCs), also called hydrocarbons (HC), come into contact with both sunlight and heat. 
Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) What is NOx? Where does it come from? Nitrogen oxides, or NOx, is the generic term for a group of highly reactive gases, all of which contain nitrogen and oxygen in varying amounts. Many of the nitrogen oxides are colorless and odorless. • Processes used in chemical plants. Health Effects NOx causes a wide variety of health and environmental impacts because of various compounds and derivatives in the family of nitrogen oxides, including nitrogen dioxide, nitric acid, nitrous oxide, nitrates, and nitric oxide.
Chemical reactions in the atmosphere have the opposite effect on substances, causing an atom to become more oxidized over time in the atmosphere. Atoms that enter the atmosphere as gases in a reduced state are oxidized, in a stepwise fashion, to form ionic substances that are washed out of the atmosphere in rainfall. Atmospheric chemistry at ground level is very different from that which occurs in the thermosphere, and there are a number of reasons why this is so. The density of the atmosphere decreases at one progress from ground level to the edge of outer space.
Nitrogen oxides are a group of gases that are composed of nitrogen and oxygen. Two of the most common nitrogen oxides are nitric oxide and nitrogen dioxide. The chemical formula for nitric oxide is NO; for nitrogen dioxide, it is NO2. Nitrous oxide, N2O, is a greenhouse gas that contributes to climate change. Nitrogen oxides, when combined with volatile organic compounds, form ground-level ozone, or smog. Sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides react with precipitation, oxygen, and other substances in the atmosphere to form acid rain. Nitric oxide is used to bleach rayon and produce nitric acid. Nitrogen dioxide is used to produce rocket fuels, explosives, and other chemicals