An ‘ average IQ score’ or ‘normal IQ score’ can be defined as a score between 85 and 115. 68% of people score between 85 and 115. The Mensa qualifying IQ score is a score that puts you in the top 2% of the population in a bell curve like this one. The Mensa qualifying score is 130 or higher, as shown below. The IQ score bell curve. With standardized IQ tests, IQ tests are designed so that their scores have a ‘bell curve’ distribution in the general population with an average of 100. This curve has a peak in the middle where most people score and tapering ends where only a small percentage of people score.
Their IQ scores ranged from 77 to 135, with an average score of 112. Four years later, the same group took another IQ test. While the average score of 113 was only one point greater than the previous test, the range of scores was quite different: 87 to 143.
IQ classification is the practice by IQ test publishers of labeling IQ score ranges with category names such as superior or average. There are several publishers of IQ tests. No two publishers use exactly the same classification labels. The current scoring method for all IQ tests is the deviation IQ. In this method, an IQ score of 100 means that the test-taker's performance on the test is at the median level of performance in the sample of test-takers of about the same age used to norm the test.
The current scoring method for all IQ tests is the deviation IQ. In this method, an IQ score of 100 means that the test-taker's performance on the test is at the median level of performance in the sample of test-takers of about the same age used to norm the test. By the current deviation IQ definition of IQ test standard scores, about two-thirds of all test-takers obtain scores from 85 to 115, and about 5 percent of the population scores above 125.
IQ classification is the practice by IQ test publishers of labeling IQ score ranges with (somewhat subjective) category names such as superior or average. There are several publishers of tests of cognitive abilities. By the current deviation IQ definition of IQ test standard scores, about two-thirds of all test-takers obtain scores from 85 to 115, and about 5 percent of the population scores above 125.
Last 10 results of this IQ Test : The bell curve (also called a normal curve or normal distribution) is a graph that shows approximately how much of the population falls into each IQ range. In theory, if we tested everyone in the world with a traditional IQ test, most people would score in the  Average range. A smaller number would score moderately below average and moderately above average. Very high and very low scores are rare. IQ Scores-Average IQ Score at IQ Test Center.
For example, a mental age score of thirteen years and zero months for a test-taker with the chronological age ten years and zero months results in a quotient of 1.3 after doing the division. The division result was then multiplied by 100 so that scores could be reported without decimal points. By the current deviation IQ definition of IQ test standard scores, about two-thirds of all test-takers obtain scores from 85 to 115, and about 5 percent of the population scores above 125.
An IQ score of 115 means performance one standard deviation above the median, a score of 85 performance one standard deviation below the median, and so on. Lewis Terman and other early developers of IQ tests noticed that most child IQ scores come out to approximately the same number by either procedure. By the current deviation IQ definition of IQ test standard scores, about two-thirds of all test-takers obtain scores from 85 to 115, and about 5 percent of the population scores above 125.