A STAR Test & Repair station is the only type of smog check center which can inspect, repair and certify any and all vehicles. These stations are participants of the State's Consumer Assistance Program and are inspected by the State of California monthly.
1 STAR smog stations will be able to issue a certificate of compliance to a vehicle passing a smog check when a motorist is referred by the DMV to such a station for vehicle registration renewal. 2  A non star station may not issue a certificate to the motorist's vehicle.
When the STAR Program begins on January 1, 2013, Smog Check stations planning to test vehicles can be licensed as either a Test-Only station or a Test-and-Repair station. Gold Shield stations will cease to exist. Both Test-Only and Test-and-Repair stations may apply for STAR certification.
1 If you received the DMV registration renewal paper saying SMOG Certification Required at a STAR station, you are at the right place. 2  Premier Star Smog is a Star Certified Smog Check Station.
1 Premier Star Smog is a Star Certified Smog Check Station. 2  STAR Smog Station means, DMV has chosen your car to be inspected at a smog station which is monitored closely by the BAR (Bureau of Automotive Repair) and must conform to high standards established by the Bureau of Automotive Repairs.
If your vehicle has been selected to undergo a STAR smog check don't be alarmed. Simply locate a convenient STAR certified smog station and proceed with the inspection. The smog technician conducting the test can inform you of any serious issues.
No need to panic. All this means is that the DMV has chosen your vehicle to be inspected at a STAR certified smog station which is monitored closely by the BAR and must conform to high standards established by the Bureau of Automotive Repairs. Some STAR stations are only authorized to perform smog inspections.
1 Repair Assistance — If your DMV renewal notice requires a Smog Check at a STAR or Test-Only station, you may qualify for up to $500 in repair assistance once you pay the first $100 in repair costs. 2  You may also qualify if your income is within certain levels, regardless of where you got your Smog Check.