Retaining Wall Costs. The cost of a retaining wall depends on the material chosen, the overall height of the wall and the length of the wall. Wood retaining walls start at $15 per square foot, while concrete retaining walls start at $20 per square foot.
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Concrete Block Wall Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Concrete Block Wall ranges between $8.59 - $11.70 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 
You will find that the cost to install an average concrete block wall depends upon the length and height of the wall, the evenness and accessibility of the property, the material used and its reinforcing measures, and the labor rate. 
The cost of adding a new wall to a home depends on the material used. Brick walls are often an affordable option, and a hollow brick wall costs around $25.40 per square foot. Manufacturers of stone blocks must source large pieces of stone and use special machines to cut those stones into smaller blocks. A natural stone wall will cost around $8 to $12 per square foot based on the type of stone chosen. A concrete block wall costs $6.10 to $7.60 per linear foot. Homeowners will also need to pay for any other materials needed, including steel bars, sand to keep the stones from rubbing against each other and mortar
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Block Retaining Wall Installation project. For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Block Retaining Wall ranges between $5.83 - $7.89 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1
Originally Posted by rctfan2 About what is the average price for concrete blocks on 8 and 6 I'm gonna be shopping around for prices... So i wanna know what is a good deal when i see it. your info would be appreciated. I'm off to work right now, but ill check back on this thread later.
To Install Concrete Block Walls in Temecula you should expect to pay in the range of $1,664.50 to $1,844.26. What we use to calculate Temecula Concrete Block Wall Installation estimates is average material costs, average hourly labor wages and labor productivity rates. 3. Click the Calculate button. The average cost to Install Concrete Block Walls in Temecula 2015 is $8.32 to $9.22 per square foot. Always make sure to make all hiring decisions carefully and to make sure the contractor is fully insured, bonded and licensed. It is a good idea to check references and verify prior work quality
Average Cost per square foot for Concrete Block Wall Installation in Temecula. The average cost to Install Concrete Block Walls in Temecula 2015 is $8.32 to $9.22 per square foot. Always make sure to make all hiring decisions carefully and to make sure the contractor is fully insured, bonded and licensed. It is a good idea to check references and verify prior work quality. 3. Click the Calculate button. The average cost to Install Concrete Block Walls in Temecula 2015 is $8.32 to $9.22 per square foot. Always make sure to make all hiring decisions carefully and to make sure the contractor is fully insured, bonded and licensed.