Compounds that are more reactive than ethane continue to be considered reactive VOCs, and therefore are subject to air quality regulation. Definitions. Rule 102 (PDF)- Definition of Terms contains a complete and updated list of exempt compounds. The U.S. EPA exempts compounds by comparing the reactivity of a given organic compound to that of ethane. Compounds with reactivity levels lower than, or equal to, ethane under the assumed conditions, may be deemed negligibly reactive.
The list differed somewhat from the U.S. EPA's list of exempted VOCs even at the time, in that ARB's definition of ROG did not exempt Ethane. As discussed in the prior section, U.S. EPA later exempted additional compounds from the federal definition of VOC as well. Therefore, the compounds identified in paragraph (s) of this section as negligibly reactive and excluded from EPA's definition of VOCs are to be counted towards a product's reactivity limit for the purposes of determining compliance with California's aerosol coatings reactivity-based regulation.
In most countries, a separate definition of VOCs is used with regard to indoor air quality that comprises each organic chemical compound that can be measured as follows: Adsorption from air on Tenax TA, thermal desorption, gas chromatographic separation over a 100% nonpolar column (dimethylpolysiloxane). Most scents or odours are of VOCs. VOCs play an important role in communication between plants, and messages from plants to animals. Some VOCs are dangerous to human health or cause harm to the environment. Anthropogenic VOCs are regulated by law, especially indoors, where concentrations are the highest
Non-VOC Compounds under 40 CFR 51.100 and LAC 33:III.2117. Volatile organic compound (VOC) means any compound of carbon, excluding carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, carbonic acid, metallic carbides or carbonates, and ammonium carbonate, which participates in atmospheric photochemical reactions. While these chemicals are considered Non-VOC, some may be required to be reported in emissions inventories as Toxic Air Pollutants (TAP) under LAC 33:III.5107.
VOCs (or specific subsets of the VOCs) are legally defined in the various laws and codes under which they are regulated. Other definitions may be found from government agencies investigating or advising about VOCs. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulates VOCs in the air, water, and land. Most scents or odours are of VOCs. VOCs play an important role in communication between plants, and messages from plants to animals. Some VOCs are dangerous to human health or cause harm to the environment. Anthropogenic VOCs are regulated by law, especially indoors, where concentrations are the highest
Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) are organic chemicals that have a high vapor pressure at ordinary room temperature. Most scents or odours are of VOCs. VOCs play an important role in communication between plants, and messages from plants to animals. Some VOCs are dangerous to human health or cause harm to the environment. Anthropogenic VOCs are regulated by law, especially indoors, where concentrations are the highest
VOC. abbreviation for. 1. (Chemistry) volatile organic compound: one of a number of chemicals, including benzene and acetone, that evaporate or vaporize readily and are harmful to human health and the environment. 
volatile organic compound (VOC). 1.Any hydrocarbon (except ethane and methane) with a vapor pressure equal to or greater than 0.1 millimeters of mercury (mmHg). Definitions (2
(s) Volatile organic compounds (VOC) means any compound of carbon, excluding carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, carbonic acid, metallic carbides or carbonates, and ammonium carbonate, which participates in atmospheric photochemical reactions. Therefore, the compounds identified in paragraph (s) of this section as negligibly reactive and excluded from EPA's definition of VOCs are to be counted towards a product's reactivity limit for the purposes of determining compliance with California's aerosol coatings reactivity-based regulation.