I dont think that star fish make any sounds but if they did i wonder wat kind of sounds they make so... i dont think starfish make and sounds   I dont think that s … tar fish make any sounds but if they did i wonder wat kind of sounds they make so... i dont think starfish make and sounds. 1 person found this useful. 1  Arachnid Advice: Keeping a Tarantula as a Pet Exotic pets are becoming more and more popular these days
More About Dragonflies ... The dragonfly (suborder Anisoptera) is an insect of the order Odonata, with large multifaceted eyes, two pairs of long transparent wings, and a long body. Dragonflies have very good eye sight due to their unique eye structure. Another name for them is mosquito hawks. Dragonflies do not bite or sting humans.[1]. The life cycle of the dragonfly, from egg to death of adult, is from six months to as much as six or seven years. Sometimes female dragonflies lay eggs in the small cleft between mud or moss.
Dragonflies are hard to miss-ranging in size from two or three centimeters all the way up to ten centimeters long, they look like small airplanes, with four very large transparent wings and a long, tubular body. They are often colorful. They make a surprisingly loud and deep buzzing sound when flying. Dragonflies are the largest insects in British Columbia. Other names for dragonflies are skimmers, darners and gomphus. Most BC dragonflies are darners, from the family Aeshnidae. Skimmers and gomphus are names for other varieties of dragonfly.
But there’s something magical about dragonflies. 1) Dragonflies were some of the first winged insects to evolve, some 300 million years ago. Modern dragonflies have wingspans of only two to five inches, but fossil dragonflies have been found with wingspans of up to two feet. 
What makes a sound a sound? Sound is vibration of (mostly air) molecules. Humans hear sounds from about 20 Hz (=20 vibrations per second, deepest bass) to about 20.000 Hz (20.000 vibrations per sec., ver … y high sizzling) The vibration is tranmitted from the air to your ear and your brain interprets it as a sound. So actually YOU make a sound a sound :-). 33 people found this useful. 
http://davidtyrer.co.uk New Dragonfly clip with audio added afterwards (Foley Sounds). The audio track was made up from two unrelated sound sources, which is a practice often used in professional wildlife filming. © David Tyrer 2009 http://davidtyrer.co.uk/blog. 