Achilles tendinitis is a common condition that causes pain along the back of the leg near the heel. The Achilles tendon is the largest tendon in the body. It connects your calf muscles to your heel bone and is used when you walk, run, and jump.
This causes parts of the body (such as a finger) to move. The flexor tendons allow you to bend your fingers. The muscles that move the fingers and thumb are located in the forearm. Long tendons extend from these muscles through the wrist and attach to the small bones of the fingers and thumb.
What ligaments and tendons have in common is that they are both types of soft tissue found in joints. However, whereas ligaments connect bone to bone, tendons attach muscle to bone. Because of the way in which they connect, ligaments and tendons thus perform different roles in the body.
Ruptured Tendon Overview. A tendon is the fibrous tissue that attaches muscle to bone in the human body. The forces applied to a large tendon may be more than five times the body weight. In some rare instances, tendons can snap or rupture.
Chronic tendonitis can affect the tendons in many different parts of the body. Tendons are the elastic tissue that connects the muscle to the bone. The elderly are at a higher risk of developing chronic tendonitis. Sometimes with over use, these tendons will break or tear and then scar tissue will form.
An Achilles tendon injury can affect both professional and amateur athletes. The Achilles tendon is one of the longer tendons in your body, stretching from the bones of your heel to your calf muscles. You can feel it -- a springy band of tissue at the back of your ankle and above your heel. It allows you to extend your foot and point your toes to the floor.
A tendon is a flexible band of tissue that connects muscles to bones. Tendons can be small, like those found in the hand or ankle, or large, like the Achilles tendon in the heel. Tendons help create movement by making the muscles push or pull the bones in different ways. Tendinitis is the severe swelling of a tendon.
They're made of tough, nonelastic tissue -- called fibrous connective tissue -- that transfers the force produced when a muscle contracts. Tendons are found in most parts of your body, including your arms, legs, hands and feet, and even your head and torso.