Carnosine is important for many normal body functions including the proper function and development of the muscles, heart, liver, kidneys, brain, and many other organs. CARNOSINE Overview Information. Carnosine is a protein building block that is naturally produced in the body. It is concentrated in muscles when they are working, and it is also found in the heart, brain, and many other parts of the body.
Build a better muscle in 4 ways. As the name suggests, CarnoSyn® beta-alanine is important for carnosine synthesis. Beta-alanine is an amino acid that bonds with another amino acid, histidine, to form carnosine in the muscle. Elevated muscle carnosine levels positively transform muscles in 4 ways: 1  Extends Endurance*. 
Submitted by: Cynthia Wang. L-Carnosine is a combination of beta-alanine and L-histidine, amino acids that work efficiently together than they would if separated. It is found mainly in the muscle tissues of the heart, muscles, skin, nerve, brain, and the stomach. The most studied purpose of L-Carnosine is its anti-aging properties. It enhances cell renewal in which dull, old skin are being replaced with new, healthy ones revealing a clearer complexion and younger looking skin.
Swanson Ultra L-Carnosine features Right Age® Carnosine, an organic compound composed of the amino acids histidine and beta-alanine. It's highly concentrated in important tissues like those of the brain, the heart, and the muscles. 
Athletic performance of some individuals, especially vegetarians, might benefit from supplementation with beta-Alanine. Carnosine. Carnosine (also known as beta-alanyl-L-histidine) is a molecule made up of two amino acids, alanine and histidine. It is synthesized in animal tissues, especially muscle and brain (1), and is not contained in any plant foods. One study has shown vegetarians to have 50% or less carnosine in muscle tissue (7). 
L Carnosine is one of the most important and potent 100% natural antioxidants on the planet. L Carnosine supports healthy skin and healthy aging by promoting strong cellular rejuvenation. This makes it a critically important anti aging supplement for younger as well as older adults. 
Carnosine is a 100 % natural substance, a so-called dipeptide, formed of two amino acids (ss-ß-Alanyl-l). Histidine it is often called a neuropeptide due to its brainprotective. Properties carnosine is found naturally in healthy, muscles, hearth, brain, liver kidneys and other. tissues Carnosine is a 100 % natural substance, a so-called dipeptide, formed of two amino acids (ss-ß-Alanyl-l). Histidine it is often called a neuropeptide due to its brainprotective. properties
High doses of carnosine are necessary for therapeutic effect because the body naturally degrades carnosine with the enzyme carnosinase. Absorption of carnosine from food is 30 to 70 % (depending on the amount of various amino acids in the meal) and that of pure L-carnosine greater than 70%. Carnosine is a 100 % natural substance, a so-called dipeptide, formed of two amino acids (ss-ß-Alanyl-l). Histidine it is often called a neuropeptide due to its brainprotective. properties
L-Carnosine Supplements. Carnosine supplements are organic compounds composed of the amino acids histidine and beta-alanine. Carnosine is highly concentrated in important tissues like those of the brain, the heart, and the muscles. It functions as a broad-spectrum antioxidant and supports the healthy functioning of enzyme systems. Many scientists suspect that carnosine plays a role in supporting longevity in some of our most vital organs