1 How many carbs should I eat while on weight loss? 2  The number of carbs most people can tolerate to reach ketosis and achieve rapid weight loss without suffering from cravings or fatigue is about 50 to 100. 3  Remember, some people don't get into ketosis even when far below 50. 
Some advise just cutting out refined and starchy carbs, while others limit carb intake to an average of 20 grams per day. While the former is fairly safe, the latter is controversial. One of these is ketosis -- a state in which levels of compounds called ketones increase in your body. Ketosis can have undesirable side effects, so you should know how many carbs you need to eat to prevent it from occurring. Talk to your doctor before beginning a low-carb diet
If you're trying to prevent ketosis but still follow a low-carb diet, aim for between the 50 to 80 grams Sisson says is the initiation point of ketosis and the minimum recommended carb intake set by the IoM. Again, your individual carb intake needs for weight loss depend mostly on your weight and activity level. One of these is ketosis -- a state in which levels of compounds called ketones increase in your body. Ketosis can have undesirable side effects, so you should know how many carbs you need to eat to prevent it from occurring. Talk to your doctor before beginning a low-carb diet
While in ketosis, your body effectively uses fat for fuel. In general, the daily intake of net carbs required to enter ketosis could vary from 20 to 100 grams per day (and very rarely over 100 grams per day). Most people, who have experienced ketosis, claim to have reached that state at about 20-50 grams of net carbs per day. I'd suggest you start at 20-30 grams and see how you can adjust it for your needs. There is no need to go zero-carb eating unless you are doing Restricted Ketogenic Diet for therapeutic reasons. Most people experience all the great fat loss and health benefits of the Ketogenic diet at 20-30 grams of net carbs per day.
The Primal Blueprint recommends “generally” about 100-150 grams of carbohydrates a day, but many who follow it or the related paleo principles choose diets that fall in the realm of 50-80 grams a day, a practice (along with IF) that spurs the body to turn on ketosis as needed. When your carb intake is low enough, say 50-80 grams a day, ketosis kicks in when it needs to. Over time, this process becomes efficient as the body “unfolds” in its genetic expression.
So, summing up mid-article, the absolute requirement for carbohydrates is zero grams per day. However, depending on protein intake, a practical minimum for carbs lies between 50 grams/day (if someone functions well in ketosis) to 100-120 grams per day (if they don’t function well in ketosis). The carbohydrate requirements for weight training actually aren’t that great. I did some rough calculations in The Ketogenic Diet and concluded that, for every 2 work sets (assuming a set length of 30-45 seconds) or so, you’ll need 5 grams of carbohydrates to replenish the glycogen used.
Best Answer: Protein does not stop ketosis at all. You're supposed to have about 55% of your diet protein, 40% fat, and 5% carbs (or around there). Ketosis stops when you eat too many carbs. And to the person who says that ketosis is catabolic is an idiot. 
Start from a low level of net carbs to ensure you quickly enter ketosis (~ 20 grams of net carbs per day). When you detect ketosis after about 2-3 days, start adding net carbs (about 5 grams each week) until you detect a very low-level or no ketones (using Ketostix or blood ketone meter). There is no need to go zero-carb eating unless you are doing Restricted Ketogenic Diet for therapeutic reasons. Most people experience all the great fat loss and health benefits of the Ketogenic diet at 20-30 grams of net carbs per day.