1 The direction of this force is perpendicular to both the magnetic field and the velocity vector of the electric charge. 2  If you have an electric field in some region, that will cause a change in electric potential between two points. If you don’t know the direction of the magnetic field you are trying to measure, this method won’t work. Also, if the magnetic field is very small or very large in comparison to the Earth’s horizontal component you won’t get a very accurate result.
Hall Effect. If an electric current flows through a conductor in a magnetic field, the magnetic field exerts a transverse force on the moving charge carriers which tends to push them to one side of the conductor. This is most evident in a thin flat conductor as illustrated.
1. The force is perpendicular to both the velocity v of the charge q and the magnetic field B. 2. The magnitude of the force is F = qvB sin&#952 where &#952 is the angle. 3. The direction of the force is given by the right hand rule. The force relationship above is in the form of a vector product. When the magnetic force relationship is applied to a current-carrying wire, the right-hand rule may be used to determine the direction of force on the wire.
The Lorentz force is always perpendicular to both the velocity of the particle and the magnetic field that created it. When a charged particle moves in a static magnetic field, it traces a helical path in which the helix axis is parallel to the magnetic field, and in which the speed of the particle remains constant. 1 A poloidal magnetic field is generated by a current flowing in a ring, and is found, for example, in a tokamak. 2  A radial magnetic field is one in which field lines are directed from the center outwards, similar to the spokes in a bicycle wheel. 3  An example can be found in a loudspeaker transducers (driver).
A charged particle moving in a B-field experiences a sideways force that is proportional to the strength of the magnetic field, the component of the velocity that is perpendicular to the magnetic field and the charge of the particle. 1 A poloidal magnetic field is generated by a current flowing in a ring, and is found, for example, in a tokamak. 2  A radial magnetic field is one in which field lines are directed from the center outwards, similar to the spokes in a bicycle wheel. 3  An example can be found in a loudspeaker transducers (driver).
1 This force depends on the magnetic field, the charge and the speed. 2  The direction of this force is perpendicular to both the magnetic field and the velocity vector of the electric charge. 3  If you have an electric field in some region, that will cause a change in electric potential between two points. If you don’t know the direction of the magnetic field you are trying to measure, this method won’t work. Also, if the magnetic field is very small or very large in comparison to the Earth’s horizontal component you won’t get a very accurate result.
The force (F) on wire of length L carrying a current I in a magnetic field of strength B is given by the equation: F = BIL. But Q = It and since Q = e for an electron and v = L/t you can show that : Magnetic force on an electron = BIL = B[e/t][vt] = Bev where v is the electron velocity. In a magnetic field the force is always at right angles to the motion of the electron (Fleming's left hand rule) and so the resulting path of the electron is circular (Figure 1). Therefore : and so you can see from these equations that as the electron slows down the radius of its orbit decreases.