As a user of Microsoft Dynamics GP 2015 you will have access to all of the modules in the Starter Pack. For an additional one time cost of $10,000 you can have access to all of the modules in the Extended Pack too. Additional Packs also available: Customization Pack and Extended HR & Payroll Pack. Get a description of each Microsoft Dynamics GP 2015 module by clicking the links below: Download Dynamics GP Functionality Guide: A description of each of the modules available within Microsoft Dynamics GP 2015.
4. If your Great Plains database option is MSSQL Server, proceed to step 5, otherwise, on the AIT Company Setup window, mark the Enable AIT in GL, Enable AIT in BR, Enable AIT in PM, and any other modules that you plan to use for originating AIT transactions. Great Plains Advanced Intercompany Transactions Setup Now that you’ve set up your Great Plains system to manage Advanced Intercompany transactions, you’ll also need to perform specific setup procedures within the Advanced Intercompany Transactions module.
A: The modules are available in worldwide English for Microsoft Dynamics GP 10.0, Microsoft Dynamics GP 9.0 and Microsoft Business Solutions-Great Plains 8.0 (now part of Microsoft Dynamics). Audit Trails will capture a “snapshot” of all the data in the table(s) at the time of activation. It is important for the Microsoft Dynamics GP partner to work closely with the client to determine the tables and fields to be audited.
Great Plains Purchasing automation includes Purchase Order Processing with PO Enhancements, plus Requisition Management in Dynamics GP Business Portal. Plus it has links to GP Inventory control module and Purchase Order Generator could be associated with your MRP functionality in manufacturing modules. 3. Inventory replenishment. If you setup your Inventory items with the quantity limits for automatic replenishment, you can use these features to replenish, or sort of use simple MRP related logic in Purchase Order Generator module in GP. 4. History.
Great Plains Dynamics-Integration Manager. iMIS provides support to meet export requirements for Great Plains Dynamics version 5.0 or greater with the Integration Manager. This support is in place in iMIS version 4.11 and later and iMIS LAN version 3.52 and later. 
Microsoft Dynamics™ is a line of integrated, adaptable business management solutions that enables you and your people to make business decisions with greater confidence. The Dynamics line includes AX, CRM, GP, NAV, and SL. 
1 Additionally, you can use the Select A Table window that opens when you access the Table Import Utility when a Microsoft Dynamics GP form is open. 2  The Select A Table window shows the tables that are used for that window. 3  You can also use the Show Required Fields option in Microsoft Dynamics GP. 1 Use the online table and field descriptions to view the table description and the field information for any table in the selected product. 2  To do this, click Tools, click Resource Descriptions, and then click Tables. 3  View the existing data in the Fabrikam, Inc. sample company.
Dynamics GP is written in a language called Dexterity. The Dynamics GP product was originally developed by Great Plains Software, an independent company located in Fargo, North Dakota, which was run by Doug Burgum. Dynamics Release 1.0 was released in February 1993. It was one of the first accounting packages in the USA that was designed and written to be multi-user and to run under Windows as 32 bit software. In late 2000, Microsoft announced the purchase of Great Plains Software for $1.1 billion.
We did not see this behavior in the test upgrade environment. Here is he scenario. We upgraded from GP 2010 to GP 2013 with SP1. After the users launch Great Plains they see a message stating, The Human Resources Integrated with Payroll module is registered, but no HRP dictionary is available on this machine. To access the additional Human Resources information, please load the dictionary.. 
1 To open the Deferral Setup window, point to Setup on the Tools menu, point to Financials, and then click Deferral. 2  Now you can void the original transaction in the module it was entered in, and the deferral entries will be deleted along with it. 3  Rekey the original transaction back in and re-set up the deferral for it. 