Ericsson, like all other companies in the field, got caught up in the frenzy of the IT/telecoms bubble in the late 1990s. The company’s market value increased by an order of magnitude, with the share price peaking at SEK 825 in March 2000, up from a low of SEK 20 at the start of the 1990s. Since the launch of .mobi in September 2006, Ericsson has launched Ericsson.mobi, its mobile portal, and SonyEricsson.mobi, the mobile portal of Sony Ericsson. Additionally, Ericsson hosts a developer program called Ericsson Developer Connection, designed to encourage development of applications and services.
Search Jobs. At Ericsson, we use innovation to empower people, business and society. Our professionals have the freedom and autonomy to think big and bring ideas to life, and they thrive in a culture defined by our core values of respect, professionalism and perseverance. Explore the opportunities at Ericsson, and contribute your unique abilities and strengths to advancing our global vision.
Follow Ericsson’s dramatic journey as the company copes with the world’s economic ups and downs. We will also learn about the Ericsson spirit, export success and subsidiaries and the events that occurred during the Russian revolution and the Great Depression and how those events affected Ericsson. Diversification and focus on the domestic market was Ericsson's way of surviving the crises of the 1930s. The same trends were to apply even more during the Second World War from 1939-1945. Initially, this involved the production of ammunition.
In 1928, Ericsson began issuing A and B shares, where an A share has 1000 votes against a B share. Wincrantz controlled the company by having only a few A shares, not a majority of the shares. Since the launch of .mobi in September 2006, Ericsson has launched Ericsson.mobi, its mobile portal, and SonyEricsson.mobi, the mobile portal of Sony Ericsson. Additionally, Ericsson hosts a developer program called Ericsson Developer Connection, designed to encourage development of applications and services.
Ericsson acquired U.S. company Telcordia Technologies in January 2012, operations and business support systems (OSS/BSS) company. In March, Ericsson announced that it was buying the broadcast-services division of Technicolor, a media broadcast technology company. Since the launch of .mobi in September 2006, Ericsson has launched Ericsson.mobi, its mobile portal, and SonyEricsson.mobi, the mobile portal of Sony Ericsson. Additionally, Ericsson hosts a developer program called Ericsson Developer Connection, designed to encourage development of applications and services.
A new company “Ericsson-LG Enterprise’ begins on November 1st, 2013. In order to leverage the enterprise communication business of Ericsson-LG. we have decided to start with our new corporate name Ericsson-LG Enterprise. 
Sony Mobile Communications Inc. (formerly Sony Ericsson) is a multinational mobile phone manufacturing company jointly headquartered in Tokyo, Japan, and Lund, Sweden, and is a wholly owned subsidiary of Sony Corporation. Since 2012 all products by Sony Mobile have been in the XPERIA range-launched with the Sony Ericsson XPERIA X1 at the 2008 Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, which carried the Windows Mobile operating system with a Sony Ericsson's panel interface.
In 2007, the company's first 5-Megapixel camera phone, the Sony Ericsson K850i, was announced followed in 2008 by the Sony Ericsson C905, the world's first 8-Megapixel phone. At Mobile World Congress 2009, Sony Ericsson unveiled the first 12-Megapixel phone, named Satio. Since 2012 all products by Sony Mobile have been in the XPERIA range-launched with the Sony Ericsson XPERIA X1 at the 2008 Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, which carried the Windows Mobile operating system with a Sony Ericsson's panel interface.
The company employs more than 110,000 people and works with customers in more than 180 countries, including Canada, United States, China, India, Brazil, Pakistan, Japan, South Africa, Australia, Germany, Italy, the UK, and Sweden. Since the launch of .mobi in September 2006, Ericsson has launched Ericsson.mobi, its mobile portal, and SonyEricsson.mobi, the mobile portal of Sony Ericsson. Additionally, Ericsson hosts a developer program called Ericsson Developer Connection, designed to encourage development of applications and services.
Sony acquired Ericsson's share in the venture on February 16, 2012. Sony Mobile Communications has research and development facilities in Tokyo, Japan; Chennai, India; Lund, Sweden; Beijing, China and Silicon Valley, United States. Since 2012 all products by Sony Mobile have been in the XPERIA range-launched with the Sony Ericsson XPERIA X1 at the 2008 Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, which carried the Windows Mobile operating system with a Sony Ericsson's panel interface.