Exceptional Hotel In Ghana. Welcome to NOVA Hotel feel good at a great price. Nova is located in Accra, Osu Oxford Street next to Frankies and Large Tax Payers Revenue Services. 
The kitchenettes were lovely and the rooms cosy. Didi, Nigeria. Located in Accra, Roots Apartment Hotel offers a fitness room, a business centre and free Wi-Fi internet access in the entire property. Excursions around the city and in the region are organised by the staff. Located in the Kokomlemle neighborhood in Accra, 2.2 miles from Kwame Nkrumah Memorial Park, King David Hotel features a restaurant, bar and free WiFi.
Aerial view. Located about 3 kilometres (1.9 mi) east of the central business district, Osu is a district in central Accra, Ghana, known for its busy commercial, restaurant and nightlife activity. It is locally known as the West End of Accra. Bounded to the south by the Gulf of Guinea, Osu's western boundary is the Independence Avenue. Ring Road separates Osu from the northern district of Labone. Owing to its establishment as a settlement around the Danish fort of Christiansborg in the 17th century, Osu offers a mix of houses dating from the early 20th century (both low-rise apartment blocks and detached houses) to modern office towers.
One of the most influential decisions in the history of the city was that of building the Accra-Kumasi railway in 1908. This was to connect Accra, the country's foremost port at that time, with Ghana's main cocoa-producing regions. In 1923, the railway was completed, and by 1924, cocoa was Ghana's largest export. Accra is served by Kotoka International Airport, which has both civil and military uses. Located 6 miles (9.7 kilometres) from downtown Accra, the airport handles all of the city's scheduled passenger services.
Accra serves as the Greater Accra region's economic and administrative hub. It is furthermore a centre of a wide range of nightclubs, restaurants, and hotels. Since the early 1990s, a number of new buildings have been built, including the multi-storey French-owned Novotel hotel. Accra is served by Kotoka International Airport, which has both civil and military uses. Located 6 miles (9.7 kilometres) from downtown Accra, the airport handles all of the city's scheduled passenger services.
Accra area guides • Osu. Your guide to the best shops, restaurants, clubs, live music, art and culture and bars in the most bustling part of Ghana's capital city. Many of Accra's best bars, restaurants and shops are in Osu. Stalls line the street and hawkers hound tourists selling personalised wristbands, fake Rolexes and football shirts.
Accra is furthermore the anchor of a larger metropolitan area, the Greater Accra Metropolitan Area (GAMA), which is inhabited by about 4 million people, making it the second-largest metropolitan conglomeration in Ghana by population, and the eleventh-largest metropolitan area in Africa. Accra is served by Kotoka International Airport, which has both civil and military uses. Located 6 miles (9.7 kilometres) from downtown Accra, the airport handles all of the city's scheduled passenger services.
Oxford Street in Osu. Osu is probably the most happening part of town. The busy Cantonments Road, known to virtually everyone as Oxford Street, is a hub of activity 24 hours a day. Many of Accra's best bars, restaurants and shops are in Osu. Stalls line the street and hawkers hound tourists selling personalised wristbands, fake Rolexes and football shirts.
Accra /əˈkrɑː/ is the capital and largest city of Ghana, with an estimated urban population of 2.27 million as of 2012. It is also the capital of the Greater Accra Region and of the Accra Metropolitan District, with which it is coterminous. Accra is served by Kotoka International Airport, which has both civil and military uses. Located 6 miles (9.7 kilometres) from downtown Accra, the airport handles all of the city's scheduled passenger services.