Re: calculate % discount for full column. Jordan, if you use an Excel 2007 table (Insert-Table), then you can enter a formula in the first data row of the table and it will automatically be applied to the whole column. Re: calculate % discount for full column. Just copy the formula down. Or, if the discount is different in each row, use something like =(F3/100*X3) where column X holds the discount value for that particular row.
When calculating a percent in Excel, you do not have to multiply the resulting fraction by 100 since Excel does this automatically when the percentage format is applied to a cell. And now, let's see how you can use the Excel percentage formula on real-life data. Total * Percentage = Amount. Assuming that the total value is in cell A2 and percent in B2, the above formula turns into a simple =A2*B2 and returns 104.50. Remember, when you type a number followed by the percent sign (%) in Excel, the number is interpreted as a hundredth of its value.
Get original price from percentage discount. If you have a discounted price and know the discount percentage, you can calculate the original price with a simple formula that divides the discounted price by the result of 1 minus the discount percentage. 
Microsoft Excel has a built-in function for calculating the discount rate for bonds, given the settlement date, maturity date, security price, redemption value and basis, which is an option argument. For example, suppose you own a bond, and want to calculate the discount rate for it. The discount rate is determined to be 1%. You can calculate the discount factor over time by using the formula: D = 1÷(1+r)^n, where D is the discount factor, r is the discount rate, and n is the number of years.
1 To get around this, you can calculate your numbers as percentages first. 2  For example, if you type the formula =10/100 in cell A2, Excel will display the result as 0.1. 3  If you then format that decimal as a percentage, the number will be displayed as 10% , as you ‘d expect. 
Instructions. Enter Original Price in cell A1, Percent Discount in cell A2 and Discounted Price in cell A3. Enter the original price of the item in cell B1. For example, if the item was $50, you would enter 50.. Enter the percentage discount as a decimal in cell B2. For example, if the discount was 35 percent, you would enter 0.35. Enter =B1*(1-B2) in cell B3 to calculate the final price of the item
Enter Redemption Price: into cell A4 and the corresponding price into cell B4, $100 in this example. Now use the corresponding Excel function, DISC, to calculate the discount rate for the bond. In cell A5, enter Discount Rate: to label the value in cell B5. The function DISC takes in specific parameters in a specific order of settlement date, maturity date, price and redemption price. In cell B5 enter =DISC(B1, B2, B3, B4). The discount rate is determined to be 1%. You can calculate the discount factor over time by using the formula: D = 1÷(1+r)^n, where D is the discount factor, r is the discount rate, and n is the number of years.
Re: calculate % discount for full column. Jordan, just copy the formula down. select the cell with the formula. Hold down the Shift key and use the down arrow key until you have selected all cells where you want the formula to go. Re: calculate % discount for full column. Just copy the formula down. Or, if the discount is different in each row, use something like =(F3/100*X3) where column X holds the discount value for that particular row.
Hello, I need a formula to be able to calculate the discount percent between two amounts. For example: In column A I have a customer's regular price of $4.36. In column B I have the customer's discount price of $4.15. In column C I need a formula to calculate the discount percent between the two costs. I know it should be around 5%, but can't figure out how to get there.