Coasts. Ireland is famous for the beautiful craggy sea cliffs along its western coastline. Among the most dramatic are the Cliffs of Moher, which reach over 700 feet. Scotland lies to the northwest of the island, across the North Channel. Directly to the east, the Irish Sea separates Ireland from England. Longest and most famous of Ireland's rivers is the 240-mile-long River Shannon. Other important rivers include the Barrow, Blackwater, Boyne, Finn, Lee, Liffey, Nore, Slaney and Suir.
The western coastline includes numerous sea cliffs. The most famous, and some say the most beautiful in all of Europe, are the Cliff of Moher. They reach a maximum height of just over 213 m (700 ft.). Ireland has dozens of coastal islands, including Achill, the country's largest. Others of significance include the Aran Islands to the southwest of Galway and Valentia Island just off the Iveragh Peninsula. Other peninsulas of note include the Beara and Dingle. The River Shannon at 386 km (240 miles) long is Ireland's longest river.
Ireland is an island on the western fringe of Europe between latitude 51 1/2 and 55 1/2 degrees north, and longitude 5 1/2 to 10 1/2 degrees west. Its greatest length, from Malin Head in the north to Mizen Head in the south, is 486 km and its greatest width from east to west is approximately 275 km. 
Other peninsulas of note include the Beara and Dingle. The River Shannon at 386 km (240 miles) long is Ireland's longest river. It widens into four loughs (lakes) along its route, including Lough Allen, Lough Bafin, Lough Derg and Lough Ree. Other inland loughs of note are the Conn, Corrib and Mask. Besides the Shannon, additional rivers of size are the Barrow, Blackwater, Boyne, Finn, Lee, Liffey, Nore, Slaney and Suir. 1  Geography of Ireland. 2  Bodies of Water of Europe. 3  Landforms of Europe. 4  River
Ireland has two major plateau areas. The first, in County Antrim, was created by the same volcanic action that made the Giant’s Causeway. The volcanic rocks cover most of the county, with the dormant volcanic plug of Slemish -- a raised hill reputed to have been visited by St. Patrick -- the most notable feature. Ireland’s longest river is the Shannon, rising in County Cavan in the northwest and flowing 161 miles south to meet the Atlantic close to Limerick in the southwest. Today you can cruise most of the river by boat; check the Waterways Ireland website (waterwaysireland.org) for a list of recommended hire companies.
1 • Coasts • Ireland is famous for the beautiful craggy sea cliffs along its western coastline. 2  Among the most dramatic are the Cliffs of Moher, which reach over 700 feet. 3  Scotland lies to the northwest of the island, across the North Channel. 1 7. County Clare’s Cliffs of Moher are some of the highest sea cliffs in Europe, at about 200meters high, straight out of the sea. 2  journals.worldnomads.com and www.ireland.com/en-us/amazing-places/cliffs-of-moher. 3  8.
Ireland is famous for the beauty of its natural landscape, but there’s much more to Ireland than green fields. If you’re planning a vacation in Ireland, make time to take in some of the island’s natural attractions, which range from its rugged coastline to its lakes, rivers and mountains. Ireland’s longest river is the Shannon, rising in County Cavan in the northwest and flowing 161 miles south to meet the Atlantic close to Limerick in the southwest. Today you can cruise most of the river by boat; check the Waterways Ireland website (waterwaysireland.org) for a list of recommended hire companies.
Ireland’s coastline includes one of its most famous natural features: the Giant’s Causeway. Between 50 and 60 million years ago, an extrusion of basalt on the coast of County Antrim created 40,000 black basalt columns, each with a distinctive hexagonal profile. Ireland’s longest river is the Shannon, rising in County Cavan in the northwest and flowing 161 miles south to meet the Atlantic close to Limerick in the southwest. Today you can cruise most of the river by boat; check the Waterways Ireland website (waterwaysireland.org) for a list of recommended hire companies.
The western coastline includes numerous sea cliffs. The most famous, and some say the most beautiful in all of Europe, are the Cliff of Moher. They reach a maximum height of just over 213 m (700 ft.). Ireland has dozens of coastal islands, including Achill, the country's largest. Besides the Shannon, additional rivers of size are the Barrow, Blackwater, Boyne, Finn, Lee, Liffey, Nore, Slaney and Suir. 1  Geography of Ireland. 2  Bodies of Water of Europe. 3  Landforms of Europe. 4  River
Ireland's central lowlands of flat rolling plains are dissected by bogs, loughs (lakes) and rivers, and surrounded by hills and low mountains. The major mountain ranges include the Blackstairs, Bluestack, Comeragh, Derryveagh, Macgillycuddy's Reeks, Nephinbeg, Ox, Silvermines, Slieve Mish, Twelve Pins, and Wicklow. Besides the Shannon, additional rivers of size are the Barrow, Blackwater, Boyne, Finn, Lee, Liffey, Nore, Slaney and Suir. 1  Geography of Ireland. 2  Bodies of Water of Europe. 3  Landforms of Europe. 4  River