1 The Club Vistalagos project is a residential development stretching from the rim of the Laguna de Apoyo back towards Granada,the oldest colonial city in the Americas. 2  Granada is 30 miles and 40 minutes from the centre of Managua and the international airport. DOWNLOAD. 1 
About the Laguna: Laguna de Apoyo is a clean, blue, and thermally vented 48-square kilomenter body of water contained inside the crater of the Apoyo Volcano (think big warm clean lake!).Laguna de Apoyo is one of Nicargua’s most beautiful natural wonders (and a great place to vacation or backpack). It is also referred to as the Apoyo Lagoon, Apoyo Crater, and simply La Laguna if you are close by. Nicaragua has a chain of Volcanos that run through it from North to South. Laguna De Apoyo is located between Volcano Mombacho, which is to the south, and Volcano Masaya to the North. You can see the tip of Mombacho from the shores of the Laguna and it usually will have some clouds swirling about the top of it
Lake Apoyo was declared a nature reserve in 1991 and is managed by the Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources (MARENA) and comprises one of 78 protected areas of Nicaragua. Geological data suggests that Lake Apoyo originated about 23,000 years ago. 
In 1991 the lagoon was declared as natural reserve (Reserva Natural Laguna de Apoyo). The lagoon and the crater are shared by the districts of Granada and Masaya. The northern and southern sectors are in the districts of Catarina and San Juan de Oriente, which are part of the department of Masaya. Apoyo Lagoon. In the center of the Nicaraguan Pacific coast, in the middle of the long volcanic chain which runs through the country from north to south, there is a wide and extended crater in a form of an inverted cone, and in the center of it there is one of the most beautiful lagoons in Nicaragua: the
Laguna de Apoyo is a nature reserve in the Capital Region of Nicaragua. From Granada head north on the Carratera Masaya to KM 37.5 and turn left. Follow the many signs to Laguna de Apoyo. From Managua head south on the Carratera Masaya to KM 37.5 and turn right. Follow the many signs to Laguna de Apoyo. Take a taxi offered by one of the many taxi drivers for around $10 - $15.
Lago de Apoyo is a crater lake with slightly salty water. I was told this was the reason the fish do not get all that big. But I was able to catch a stringer full of tilapia one morning as the sun was rising. The fish here are technically cichlids, so they are quite aggressive and territorial. If you have to take a taxi to the airport from Laguna de Apoyo, the cost of a taxi is about $40. From Masaya, it's more than half that. We were quoted $12.50 or 300 cords, a great deal! Allot about 30-40 mins. If you've got the time, the bus is the cheapest option, of course.
Welcome to Lago Apoyo, Granada, Nicaragua. A lakeside gem on Granada’s doorstep with 360 degree views of Lago de Apoyo, Granada, Cocibolca and Mombacho… only 3 miles from the center of Colonial Granada! We have several projects here and you can immediately start constructing as water, power and title are in place. Club Vista lago Apoyo is fully committed to the conservation of the Laguna de Apoyo. We have a program of reforestation of the area and have to date planted tens of thousands of saplings of indigenous species. We have set aside a vast area to remain as virgin forest which may never be built on.