Definition. Market segmentation based on differences in demographic factors of different groups of consumers. It is one of the five common segmentation strategies, and aims to define specific niches that require custom promotion. 
One of the main advantages of demographic segmentation is that the information you need is readily available for you. You can pull census data to determine who, where, and how you want to market your product. For example, automobile industries can market their cars to different age groups, income levels, and genders. Disadvantages of Demographic Segmentation. One of the main disadvantages of demographic segmentation is it can make an organization vulnerable to competitors. Competitors may try to use the same marketing techniques and potentially take away customers.
Segmentation according to demography is based on variables such as age, gender, occupation and education level or according to perceived benefits which a product or service may provide. Benefits may be perceived differently depending on a consumer's stage in the life cycle. Demographic segmentation divides markets into different life stage groups and allows for messages to be tailored accordingly. A variant of this approach known as firmographic or feature based segmentation is commonly used in business-to-business markets (it’s estimated that 81% of B2B marketers use this technique).
1) Age – One of the first variable of demographic segmentation is age. This is because consumer needs and wants change with their age. A youngster might want a mobile phone but an earning professional will want a communicator with lots of extra features such as email and file editing support. Demographic Segmentation. Segmentation generally divides a population based on variables. Thus demographic segmentation too has its own variables such as Age, gender, family size, income, occupation, religion, race and nationality. Demographic segmentation is one of the most commonly used forms of segmentation as it is clearly identifiable. The variables used for Demographic segmentation help divide a large population into specific customer groups
There are ways to target a specific market for your product or service. Demographic segmentation is one of the ways to target a specific group of consumers. Read on to learn more about demographic segmentation and its advantages and disadvantages. Disadvantages of Demographic Segmentation. One of the main disadvantages of demographic segmentation is it can make an organization vulnerable to competitors. Competitors may try to use the same marketing techniques and potentially take away customers.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Market segmentation is a marketing strategy which involves dividing a broad target market into subsets of consumers, businesses, or countries who have, or are perceived to have, common needs, interests, and priorities, and then designing and implementing strategies to target them. Demographic segmentation divides markets into different life stage groups and allows for messages to be tailored accordingly. A variant of this approach known as firmographic or feature based segmentation is commonly used in business-to-business markets (it’s estimated that 81% of B2B marketers use this technique).
Demographic segmentation is market segmentation according to age, race, religion, gender, family size, ethnicity, income, and education. Demographics can be segmented into several markets to help an organization target its consumers more accurately. Disadvantages of Demographic Segmentation. One of the main disadvantages of demographic segmentation is it can make an organization vulnerable to competitors. Competitors may try to use the same marketing techniques and potentially take away customers.
DEFINITION of 'Market Segmentation'. A marketing term referring to the aggregating of prospective buyers into groups (segments) that have common needs and will respond similarly to a marketing action. 
Lesson Summary. Psychographic segmentation involves dividing your market into segments based upon different personality traits, values, attitudes, interests, and lifestyles of consumers. This segmentation is advantageous because it allows you to engage in product design and marketing in a focused manner