Plain, ordinary foods can come alive with taste and flavor with the addition of simple sauces. For example, traditional poached eggs and English muffins take on an entirely new flavor and look with the addition of Hollandaise sauce. So it is with Tchoupitoulas sauce. Ingredients. The base ingredients of Tchoupitoulas sauce are butter or a butter/margarine mix, Cajun seasoning, and cayenne pepper. Other ingredients are added, depending on the flavor desired or the meat or fish used.
1 tablespoons minced shallots. 2 teaspoons minced garlic. 3 cups water. 2 tablespoons rice wine vinegar. 3 pounds assorted greens, such as mustard greens, collard greens, turnip greens, kale and spinach, washed and stemmed. In a large, deep pot over medium-high heat, saute the bacon until slightly crisp. Heat 2 large oven-safe saute pans over medium high-heat. When the pans are hot, add enough oil to coat the bottom of each pan. Place 2 chicken halves in each pan, skin side down, and sear until deep golden brown, about 6 to 8 minutes. Turn the chickens over and place in the oven.
1 In a large saute pan, over medium-high heat, melt the remaining 2 tablespoons butter, about 1 minute. 2  Add the onions, 1 teaspoon salt, 1/4 teaspoon cayenne, and 12 turns black pepper and saute for 6 minutes. 3  Add the sausage and continue to cook for 3 minutes. 4  Add the garlic and corn. 5  Continue to cook for 1 minute. 1 Smear the mixture evenly over shrimp. 2  Heat a large oven-safe saute pan over medium-high heat. 3  When the pan is hot, add enough oil to coat the bottom of the pan. 4  Place the shrimp in the pan, and saute until done, about 3 to 4 minutes. 5  For the Southern Cooked Greens: In a large pot, saute the bacon until slightly crisp.
Directions. Melt 4 ounces of the butter in a skillet. Add the Creole seasoning, clam juice, garlic and shrimp. Saute until the shrimp are pink. Add the mushrooms, parsley, and scallions. Saute until the mushrooms are tender, about 2 to 3 minutes. Add the remaining 2 ounces of butter and continue cooking until the sauce is creamy. Server over French bread rounds in shirred egg dishes or shallow soup bowls.
1 Heat a large oven-safe saute pan over medium-high heat. 2  When the pan is hot, add enough oil to coat the bottom of the pan. 3  Place the shrimp in the pan, and saute until done, about 3 to 4 minutes. 4  For the Southern Cooked Greens: In a large pot, saute the bacon until slightly crisp. 1 Smear the mixture evenly over shrimp. 2  Heat a large oven-safe saute pan over medium-high heat. 3  When the pan is hot, add enough oil to coat the bottom of the pan. 4  Place the shrimp in the pan, and saute until done, about 3 to 4 minutes. 5
In a large saute pan, over medium-high heat, melt the remaining 2 tablespoons butter. Add the onions, bell peppers, 1 teaspoon salt, and 1/4 teaspoon cayenne. Season generously with black pepper and saute until the onions are soft and start to brown, about 6 minutes. Add the sausage and continue to cook for 3 minutes. Heat 2 large oven-safe saute pans over medium high-heat. When the pans are hot, add enough oil to coat the bottom of each pan. Place 2 chicken halves in each pan, skin side down, and sear until deep golden brown, about 6 to 8 minutes. Turn the chickens over and place in the oven.
Flour to coat chicken. 1/2 cup cooked and diced potatoes. 1/2 cup diced ham or andouille sausage. 1/2 cup sliced mushrooms. 1/4 cup diced green onions. 1 cup (about) hash (purchased or your favorite recipe). Prepare tchoupitoulas butter and bearnaise sauce with tarragon reduction. Preheat oven to 350 degrees. In 10-inch saute pan, melt tchoupitoulas butter over medium heat. Dredge chicken breasts in flour and saute until browned on both sid
Types of Entrees. Tchoupitoulas sauce is a tasty addition to many meat dishes, including fish such as halibut, trout or salmon; veal chops; shrimp; chicken and oysters. It is often served in conjunction with other popular sauces such as Bearnaise. Ingredients. The base ingredients of Tchoupitoulas sauce are butter or a butter/margarine mix, Cajun seasoning, and cayenne pepper. Other ingredients are added, depending on the flavor desired or the meat or fish used.