1 For a bladder infection with complications -- such as pregnancy or diabetes, OR a mild kidney infection -- you will usually take antibiotics for 7 to 14 days. 2  Finish all of the antibiotics, even if you feel better. 3  If you do not finish the whole dose of medicine, the infection may return and be harder to treat later.
1 For a bladder infection with complications -- such as pregnancy or diabetes, OR a mild kidney infection -- you will usually take antibiotics for 7 - 14 days. 2  Be sure to finish all of the antibiotics, even if you feel better.
Symptoms of urinary bladder infection in kids include: 1  pain or burning with urination, 2  frequent urination, 3  urgency-a child will have a very strong, painful urge to urinate, 4  fever-mild infections often will cause fever, but moderate to severe bladder infections that involve the kidneys do cause fever. 5  foul-smelling urine.
Look at your urine to identify the symptoms of a bladder infection. If an infection is present, urine will appear dark amber, cloudy and may have a foul odor. You may feel abdominal pain and pressure. Urinating may be difficult; only small amounts of urine may be released at a time.
Antibiotics are the most common treatment for chronic bladder infections. If your symptoms are mild, your GP might ask you to wait for the results of a urine test. This way, your doctor can prescribe the most suitable antibiotic for fighting the bacteria which are causing your infection.
MILD BLADDER AND KIDNEY INFECTIONS. 1  Most of the time you will need to take an antibiotic to prevent the infection from spreading to the kidneys. 2  For a simple bladder infection, you will take antibiotics for 3 days (women) or 7 to 14 days (men).
While being treated for a bladder infection, drink plenty of fluids to help flush any bacteria out of the bladder. A common treatment is phenazopyridine (Pyridium), which is available over the counter. This is an anesthetic for the urinary tract, but doesn’t actually treat the infection.