The starchy root of the yucca is not only rich in carbohydrates but also contains a healthy mix of vitamins, minerals and plant-based nutrients. Researchers are finding that yucca root’s phytonutrients, including steroidal saponins and resveratrol, endow it with significant health benefits.
Overview. The yucca plant is also known as manioc or cassava. It is a woody shrub currently found in most tropical and subtropical climates worldwide and was domesticated because of the manifold properties of its tuberlike roots.
In South America, the yuca root is regarded as a staple crop and is extensively cultivated. It is a very starchy vegetable and is similar to a potato. This vegetable is commonly grown and consumed in places like Asia, Africa, the Caribbean, and other parts of Latin America.
Commonly used to make tapioca, tapioca flour, pancakes, and snack chips, this root may also be referred to as Cassava Root, Manioc Yuca, Manioc, Manihot, Mandioca, and Eddoes. At times, it is mistakenly referred to as Yucca, which is a non-edible plant from the Agave plant family.
Uses. Properly prepared yuca root is a good source of vitamin C and acts as a starchy substitute for a potato in stews, soups and other hearty dishes. You can even prepare it like French-cut fries, pan-fried yuca chips, or hashbrowns. The starch is also used as a thickener in tapioca, the coarse pudding-like dessert.
Yuca root goes by many names. The yuca is often called cassava or manioc and is a woody shrub type plant. This plant is native to South America and can be found in many subtropical and tropical regions. Although the plant is not native to North America, it is grown in the Southwestern parts of the United States.
The root of the non-flowering plant is used to make medicine. Yucca is used for osteoarthritis, high blood pressure, migraine headaches, inflammation of the intestine (colitis), high cholesterol, stomach disorders, diabetes, poor circulation, and liver and gallbladder disorders.
Other names for cassava are yuca, manioc, mandioca, yucca root, casabe, and tapioca. Cassava is native to Brazil and the tropical areas of the Americas. It’s widely grown all over Latin America and the Caribbean. It was, and still is, an essential root vegetable in the Caribbean diet.