Cost allocation is the process of identifying, aggregating, and assigning costs to cost objects. A cost object is any activity or item for which you want to separately measure costs. Examples of cost objects are a product, a research project, a customer, a sales region, and a department. Cost allocation is used for financial reporting purposes, to spread costs among departments or inventory items. Cost allocation is also used in the calculation of profitability at the department or subsidiary level, which in turn may be used as the basis for bonuses or the funding of additional activities. Cost allocations can also be used in the derivation of transfer prices between subsidiaries. Example of Cost Allocation
Cost allocation is the process of identifying and assigning the costs of services necessary for the operation of a business or other type of entity. Another benefit of cost allocation has to do with simply keeping track of expenses for internal planning purposes. While some expenses are indirect costs and benefit more than one area of the operation, there is still a need to allocate direct costs in a manner that is logical and accurate.
Considerations. One of the best ways to understand cost allocation is to view it as a process that requires you to identify, aggregate and assign costs to cost objects. A cost object is an item or activity, such as a department or product, that requires you to separately weigh costs. As a small business owner, allocating costs through an accounting system is a necessary task. The process requires you to assign costs so that all components included in that cost are divided accordingly.
Cost allocation is important because it the process through which costs incurred in producing a certain product or rendering a certain service is calculated. If costs are not accurately calculated, a business might never know which products are making money and which ones are losing money. Cost allocation base. Cost allocation base is the variable that is used for allocating/assigning costs in different cost pools to different cost objects. A good cost allocation base is something which is an appropriate cost driver for a particular cost pool.
Cost allocation is a process of providing relief to shared service organization's cost centers that provide a product or service. In turn, the associated expense is assigned to internal clients' cost centers that consume the products and services. The core components of a cost allocation system consist of a way to track which organizations provides a product and/or service, the organizations that consume the products and/or services, and a list of portfolio offerings (e.g. service catalog).
2 COST ALLOCATION I. COST ALLOCATION CONCEPTS Cost allocation is a method to determine the cost of services provided to users of that service. Itdoes not determine the price of the service, but rather determines what the service costs to provide. 
Cost Allocation. Cost allocation (also called cost assignment) is the process of finding cost of different cost objects such as a project, a department, a branch, a customer, etc. Cost allocation base. Cost allocation base is the variable that is used for allocating/assigning costs in different cost pools to different cost objects. A good cost allocation base is something which is an appropriate cost driver for a particular cost pool.
Cost allocation and cost apportionment are methods for attributing cost to particular cost objects (Cost object is a term referring simply to any item associated with a cost figure of its own). The assignment of cost figures to specific cost objects is a central task in budgeting, planning, and financial reporting. 