Organelles like the nucleus and golgi apparatus are usually single while others like mitochondria, chloroplasts, peroxisomes and lysosomes are in large numbers about hundreds to thousands. The cellular organelles are suspended and surrounded in a gelatinous fluid cytosol that fills the cell. Cell is the basic, structural and functional unit of life. Cells are often called the building blocks of life. There are two types of cell-prokaryotes and eukaryptes. Prokaryotes are single-celled organisms, they lack membrane bound cellular organelles like nucleus, mitochondria.
Mitochondria Have DNA. Mitochondria and chloroplasts have striking similarities to bacteria cells. They have their own DNA, which is separate from the DNA found in the nucleus of the cell. And both organelles use their DNA to produce many proteins and enzymes required for their function. A double membrane surrounds both mitochondria and chloroplasts, further evidence that each was ingested by a primitive host.
Mitochondria are essential components of nearly all cells in the body. These organelles are the powerhouses for cells, providing energy to carry out biochemical reactions and other cellular processes. Mitochondria make energy for cells from the chemical energy stored in the food we eat. 
The main function of mitochondria is the production of energy during the production of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) via the TCA Cycle (which is also as the Krebs Cycle and the Citric Acid Cycle). That process is an important metabolic pathway (see also what is metabolism). Mitochondria contain their own genetic material-which is independent of the cell in which they are located. Mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) is maternally inherited. At fertilization only nuclear DNA enters from the sperm because although the egg contains mitochondria, sperm cells do not.
Mitochondria Mitochondria are rod-shaped organelles that can be considered the power generators of the cell, converting oxygen and nutrients into adenosine triphosphate (ATP). ATP is the chemical energy currency of the cell that powers the cell's metabolic activities. The mitochondrion is different from most other organelles because it has its own circular DNA (similar to the DNA of prokaryotes) and reproduces independently of the cell in which it is found; an apparent case of endosymbiosis.
There are many organelles in cells. Each organelle has a specific function:for example, the mitochondria produces most of the cell's energy! Basically, an organelles fun … ction is to help run the cell. Go into more description to get a specific answer.
The mitochondrion (plural mitochondria) is a double membrane-bound organelle found in most eukaryotic cells. The word mitochondrion comes from the Greek μίτος, mitos, i.e. thread, and χονδρίον, chondrion, i.e. granule or grain-like. Mitochondria range from 0.5 to 1.0 μm in diameter. Several characteristics make mitochondria unique. The number of mitochondria in a cell can vary widely by organism, tissue, and cell type. For instance, red blood cells have no mitochondria, whereas liver cells can have more than 2000. The organelle is composed of compartments that carry out specialized functions
But we're learning they do far more for the cell.. Mitochondria are critical to cell survival in a variety of ways. For instance, they store calcium ions, helping cells maintain the right concentration of these electrically charged particles involved in blood clotting, muscle contraction and other important tasks. 
Mitochondria are rod-shaped organelles that can be considered the power generators of the cell, converting oxygen and nutrients into adenosine triphosphate (ATP). The mitochondrion is different from most other organelles because it has its own circular DNA (similar to the DNA of prokaryotes) and reproduces independently of the cell in which it is found; an apparent case of endosymbiosis.