There are many kinds of RSV, so your body never becomes immune to it. You can get it again and again throughout your life, sometimes during the same season. RSV usually causes the same symptoms as a bad cold, such as: 1  A cough. 2  A stuffy or runny nose. 3  A mild sore throat. 4  An earache. 5  A fever
Infection with respiratory syncytial virus (RSV; see the image below) , which manifests primarily as bronchiolitis or viral pneumonia, is the leading cause of lower respiratory tract infections (LRTIs) in infants and young children. Electron micrograph of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV). RSV is most common cause of bronchiolitis and pneumonia in children younger than 1 year. Image courtesy of Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The clinical entity of bronchiolitis was described at least 100 years ago.
There are two main types of RSV and many subtypes (strains). For this reason, you cannot have full immunity to the virus. And you may have many RSV infections throughout life. People with RSV infection may spread the virus through their secretions (saliva or mucus) when they cough, sneeze, or talk. The incubation period-the time from exposure to RSV until you have symptoms-ranges from 2 to 8 days but usually is 4 to 6 days. You are most likely to spread the virus within the first several days after symptoms of RSV infection begin. You remain contagious for up to 8 days. Babies and young children may spread the virus for at least 3 to 4 weeks. Many different viruses can cause lower respiratory tract infections in children. These viruses can cause symptoms that are similar to an RSV infection
Respiratory syncytial virus infection, usually called RSV, is a lot like a bad cold. It causes the same symptoms. And like a cold, it is very common and very contagious. Most children have had it at least once by age 2. RSV is usually not something to worry about. RSV usually causes the same symptoms as a bad cold, such as: 1  A cough. 2  A stuffy or runny nose. 3  A mild sore throat. 4  An earache.
Causes. Respiratory syncytial virus enters your body through your eyes, nose or mouth. It spreads easily when infectious respiratory secretions — such as those from coughing or sneezing — are inhaled or passed to others through direct contact, such as shaking hands. An infected person is most contagious in the first few days after infection, but respiratory syncytial virus may spread for up to a few weeks after the start of infection. 1  Symptoms. 2  Risk factors.
It is not to be confused with Rous sarcoma virus. Human respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a virus that causes respiratory tract infections. It is a major cause of lower respiratory tract infections and hospital visits during infancy and childhood. In the United States, 60% of infants are infected during their first RSV season, and nearly all children will have been infected with the virus by 2–3 years of age. Of those infected with RSV, 2–3% will develop bronchiolitis, necessitating hospitalization
Respiratory syncytial (sin-SISH-uhl) virus, or RSV, is a respiratory virus that infects the lungs and breathing passages. Healthy people usually experience mild, cold-like symptoms and recover in a week or two. But RSV can be serious, especially for infants and older adults. 