Continental crust is also less dense than oceanic crust, whose density is about 2.9 g/cm 3. Continental crust is considerably thicker than oceanic crust, mostly 25 to 70 km versus the average thickness of the oceanic crust of around 7–10 km. About 40% of Earth's surface is now overlaid by continental crust. Continental crust makes up about 70% of the volume of Earth's crust
The oceanic crust consists of heavier rock, mostly Basalt, so that if a oceanic plate collides with a continental plate the oceanic plate will be forced down below the contine … ntal plate, forming island arcs.continental plates are thicker than oceanic plates. 
Earth's crust consists of solid rock that consists of both dry land and the ocean floor and forms Earth's outer skin. The oceanic crust is part of the crust that is made fully out of basaltic rock and is several times thinner than the continental crust which is made out of granitic rock. Ocea … nic crust underlies Earth's oceans and is produced at divergent plate boundaries which are commonly referred to as mid-ocean ridges
The crust is composed of two basic rock types granite and basalt. The continental crust is composed mostly of granite. The oceanic crust consists of a volcanic lava rock called basalt. Basaltic rocks of the ocean plates are much denser and heavier than the granitic rock of the continental plates. Because of this the continents ride on the denser oceanic plates. The Earth's Crust is like the skin of an apple. It is very thin in comparison to the other three layers. The crust is only about 3-5 miles (8 kilometers) thick under the oceans(oceanic crust) and about 25 miles (32 kilometers) thick under the continents (continental crust).
1 Layer 3 is formed by slow cooling of magma beneath the surface and consists of coarse grained gabbros and cumulate ultramafic rocks. 2  It constitutes over two-thirds of oceanic crust volume with almost 5 km thickness. Oceanic crust is significantly simpler than continental crust and generally can be divided in three layers. 1  Layer 1 is on an average 0.4 km thick. 2  It consists of unconsolidated or semiconsolidated sediments, usually thin or even not present near the mid-ocean ridges but thickens farther away from the ridge.
Oceanic crust is the uppermost layer of an oceanic tectonic plate. The crust overlies the solidified and uppermost layer of the mantle. The crust and the solid mantle layer together comprise an oceanic plate. The plates of the Earth together are referred to as the lithosphere. Oceanic crust is significantly simpler than continental crust and generally can be divided in three layers. 1  Layer 1 is on an average 0.4 km thick. 2  It consists of unconsolidated or semiconsolidated sediments, usually thin or even not present near the mid-ocean ridges but thickens farther away from the ridge.
Accordingly, the crust is divided into two types; the continental crust and the oceanic crust. Oceanic Crust. The oceanic crust is that part of the Earth’s crust that covers the ocean basins. It consists of dark-colored rocks made up of basalt. This rock is made up of silicon, oxygen, and magnesium. The density of the oceanic crust is about 3.0 g/cm3. The continental crust has a lower density. This difference in the average densities allows many natural phenomenon to occur on and below the surface of the Earth. The oceanic crust scarcely floats on the mantle
Oceanic crust is the result of erupted mantle material originating from below the plate, cooled and in most instances, modified chemically by seawater. This occurs mostly at mid-ocean ridges, but also at scattered hotspots, and also in rare but powerful occurences known as flood basalt eruptions. Oceanic crust is significantly simpler than continental crust and generally can be divided in three layers. 1  Layer 1 is on an average 0.4 km thick. 2  It consists of unconsolidated or semiconsolidated sediments, usually thin or even not present near the mid-ocean ridges but thickens farther away from the ridge.
This crust is mostly made up of igneous rocks and is also a lot older than the oceanic crust. The continental crust can be divided into two parts. The upper part is made up of mostly granite rocks, and the lower part consists of basalt and diorite. 