Return to work should be phased, however, with three half-days in the first week, two full days in the second week, five half-days in the third week, and full-time by week four. Recovery from knee replacement surgery takes a minimum of three months, but most likely six. A full recovery can take around eight to ten months. The degree of improvement during rehabilitation often depends on the strength of your body before surgery, your body weight, and your ability to manage pain. 1 2 1 1. Many patients are eager to know when they can return to work and resume their normal activities after knee replacement surgery. While the desire for a speedy recovery is nearly universal among patients, less understood and appreciated is the value of recovery time itself.
Return to work should be phased, however, with three half-days in the first week, two full days in the second week, five half-days in the third week, and full-time by week four. Recovery from knee replacement surgery takes a minimum of three months, but most likely six. A full recovery can take around eight to ten months. The degree of improvement during rehabilitation often depends on the strength of your body before surgery, your body weight, and your ability to manage pain. Your pain needs to be at a manageable level and you should be able to get around independently. Under these criteria, most patients are able to return to work within the one to two month period. Here is what some of the patients at the BoneSmart.org knee replacement forum are saying about their recoveries:
The average short-term recovery time for a total knee replacement is 6 to 12 weeks. Long-term recovery involves the complete healing of surgical wounds and internal soft tissues. When a patient can return to work and the activities of daily living, they are on the way to achieving the full term of recovery. Another indicator is when the patient finally feel s normal again. The average long-term recovery for total knee replacement patients is between 3 and 6 months. Generally speaking, knee replacement patients take longer to recover than, say, hip replacement patients. It should still be noted, however, that recovery time for a total knee replacement can differ vastly from patient to patient. Some patients may take six months to recover; while others may recover in one month.
Everyone heals from total knee replacement surgery at a different pace. In most cases, however, you will likely use a walker or crutches for 2 to 4 weeks after your operation. You will then advance to a cane and wean to no assistive device at all. You will gradually return to normal function without any assistive devices. In general, most patients are close to full recovery after 3 months.
When you can return to work after total knee replacement surgery depends on your profession. If your work is sedentary, you may return as early as 2 to 4 weeks post-operatively. If your work is more rigorous, you may require up to 3 months before you can return to full duty. In some cases, more time may be necessary. In most cases, however, you will likely use a walker or crutches for 2 to 4 weeks after your operation. You will then advance to a cane and wean to no assistive device at all. You will gradually return to normal function without any assistive devices. In general, most patients are close to full recovery after 3 months.
After knee replacement surgery, you are usually sent home or to a rehabilitation facility, depending on your condition at that time. If you are sent to a facility, the average rehabilitation stay is approximately seven to ten days. If you are sent directly home from the hospital, your doctor will usually have a physical therapist come to treat you at home.
You will usually be in hospital for three to five days, depending on what progress you make and what type of knee replacement you have. Patients who have a half knee replacement usually have a shorter hospital stay. However, it may take up to three months for pain and swelling to settle down. It can take up to a year for any leg swelling to disappear. Your new knee will continue to recover up to two years after your operation. During this time, scar tissue will heal and muscles will be restored by exercise.
Patients with physically demanding jobs are often out of work for three to six months. Patients who hold desk jobs or administrative positions may return to work within six weeks, but this is the minimum. Going back to work too soon hinders long term recovery. Your pain needs to be at a manageable level and you should be able to get around independently. Under these criteria, most patients are able to return to work within the one to two month period. Here is what some of the patients at the BoneSmart.org knee replacement forum are saying about their recoveries:
By Mary Brophy Marcus. HealthDay Reporter. FRIDAY, March 22 (HealthDay News) -- Getting back to work after knee-replacement surgery is a big concern for people contemplating the procedure. Now, a new study shows that most people return to work after a total knee replacement -- even those with physically demanding jobs. 
How quickly you can return to work after having knee surgery will depend on what your job involves. If you work in an office, you may be able to return to work after two to three weeks. If you do any form of manual labour, it could be up to three months before you can return to work, depending on your work activities. 