Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Memphishvactech. Confidence votes 3. CFC is Cloroflurocarbon and it refers to the Clourine, Flourine, and Carbon that are present in Freons such as R12. Most home AC units use R22, which is a HCFC, that is HyrdoClouroFlouroCarbon. 
CFC-chloro fluoro carbon. It's the gas that used to be used in refrigerators and aerosol cans. When it became clear that this gas was highly damaging to the ozone layer the c … ountries of the world agreed, at the Montreal Treaty, to stop using it.
is a trade name for a class of chemicals (known as Chlorofluorocarbons or CFC's) used as a refrigerant in air conditioning systems. Freon is a gas at room temperature and a liquid when cooled or compressed. Freon gas is colorless, non-flammable and relatively odorless. Some Freons have an ether-like odor. 
If you’re involved in commercial property or facility management, you probably know that refrigerants are essential to any HVAC operation. In short, refrigerants are what make air conditioning possible, helping to maintain the delicate balance in your building’s environment, and keep your tenants happy. The Environmental Challenge. Unfortunately, refrigerants also have a large impact on the environment. If you are involved in making decisions about an HVAC system, it’s important to understand your refrigerant options so you can make educated decisions – both for the planet and for your budget.
HVAC Universal Certification. One of the main prerequisites for becoming an HVAC technician is to be able to do the work safely. Heating and cooling systems use potentially dangerous chemicals, flammable substances, and heat. All of these could potentially be dangerous if handled or installed improperly.
Freon is a refrigerant used for most home heating, ventilating, and air conditioning (HVAC) units in America. While only a brand name of DuPont, the name “freon” often represents all HCFC refrigerants. HCFC was created to take the place of a refrigerant containing carbon, fluorine, and chlorine, or CFC (chlorofluorocarbons). It was argued that HCFC was safer than CFC because HCFC is nonflammable, nontoxic, noncorrosive, and odorless.
We can replace any card that has been lost or stolen, as long as it was originally issued by our office. The fee to replace a CFC Card is $10.00. To replace a card, fill out and submit an application for a Replacement CFC Card. Once received by our office, you should receive your replacement card in 7-10 days.
CFC/EPA Certification. All licensed refrigeration contractors and technicians as who handle refrigerants as stated must be certified by an EPA-Approved Technician's Certification Program effective November 14, 1994. If you are interested in taking the exam, you have 2 options: The fee to replace a CFC Card is $10.00. To replace a card, fill out and submit an application for a Replacement CFC Card. Once received by our office, you should receive your replacement card in 7-10 days.
What does CFC mean in relation to HVAC? already exists. already exists as an alternate of this question. exists and is an alternate of. What's your #1 piece of advice for guys on how to get a girl? What does the abbreviation 'HVAC' mean? What does it mean to be an HVAC contractor? What is CFC in HVAC? What mean by hvac full form? What is the hvac? It's the gas that used to be used in refrigerators and aerosol cans. When it became clear that this gas was highly damaging to the ozone layer the c … ountries of the world agreed, at the Montreal Treaty, to stop using it.
The HVAC Pro* is the original Professional Provider of its Signature One Day Complete CFC Certification Program for groups in the locations we serve, primarily in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland, Delaware, Virginia and the District of Columbia. As the license is valid in all states, many come from greater distances. 