10 days after possible conception date is too early. Usually it is best to test about a week after your missed period. Some women test before their missed period but you are more likely to get false negative because there isn't enough hormone in your system for the test to pick up on it. Wait a little and test again. I found out 8 days after conception. First responce early pregancy test tells you 6 days before you miss your period. So typical 14-6 days=8! :) I concieved on Friday October 23rd.
Yes there is. Sperm can survive up to 5 days after ejaculation. A positive ovulation test means you will ovulate in 24 to 36 hours. You can use a pregnancy test to see if you are pregnant about 12 days after you got the positive ovulation test. As a frame of reference, most women have an hCG measurement of 25 mIU 10 days after ovulation, 50 mIU once 12 days have passed since ovulation, and 100 mIU around two weeks after ovulation has occurred. Of course, different tests and brands of tests will have different sensitivities to hCG levels within the body.
The majority of the pregnancy tests on the market today are able to detect an hCG range between 20 mIU and 50 mIU. The hCG in your urine, if you are pregnant, will typically be 25 mIU around 4 days prior to your period start date, which is roughly 11 days after your positive ovulation test. However, this is all dependent on when your fertilized egg actually implanted. To test at this time, the pregnancy test will need to be sensitive to at least 25 mIU. If money is no concern, then starting 8 days after your positive ovulation test, you could start taking a daily pregnancy test.
4 days after your baby finds its special spot in your uterus (implantation) you body doesn't even start to produce the hormone hCG until it has implanted which can be 6 to 12 days (most commanly around 8)after the day of conception, then your hCG level rises, doubling daily. I found out 8 days after conception. First responce early pregancy test tells you 6 days before you miss your period. So typical 14-6 days=8! :) I concieved on Friday October 23rd.
A: The earliest you can get a positive result on the most sensitive pregnancy tests is seven days after ovulation. Implantation needs to occur before hCG is produced, and that generally happens between 6-12 days post ovulation, usually by 10 days after. 
As your pregnancy continues, the level of hCG is expected to steadily increase. As a frame of reference, most women have an hCG measurement of 25 mIU 10 days after ovulation, 50 mIU once 12 days have passed since ovulation, and 100 mIU around two weeks after ovulation has occurred. Of course, different tests and brands of tests will have different sensitivities to hCG levels within the body.
Hope this helps Q: How soon after ovulation can I test? A: The earliest you can get a positive result on the most sensitive pregnancy tests is seven days after ovulation. Implantation needs to occur before hCG is produced, and that generally happens between 6-12 days post ovulation, usually by 10 days after. I got a positive pregnancy test 16 days after ovulation, 8 days after ovulation i had implantation and 8 days after implantation i had a positive test.
All pregnancy tests look for the presence of hCG. hCG is short for ’’human chorionic gonadotropin’’. It is a hormone produced by the placenta during pregnancy. It is not produced until implantation (when the fertilized egg attaches to the uterine wall). Implantation does not occur until 6-12 days after ovulation. So the soonest you can take a pregnancy test and get a positive test result is seven days after ovulation, though many women will get a false negative at this time. 
Implantation usually occurs 5-6 days after conception. So for a blood test I would say it would detect pregnancy around 8 days after conception. A home pregnancy test takes longer to detect HCG because they are only sensitive to a certain amount of HCG, usually 50 and higher. Your HCG doesn't reach 50 until about 13 days after conception and sometimes longer
These tests can detect pregnancy earlier than a home pregnancy test, or about six to eight days after ovulation. But with these tests, it takes longer to get the results than with a home pregnancy test. Two types of blood pregnancy tests are available: A qualitative hCG test simply checks to see if hCG is present. 