All men are at risk for developing prostate cancer. About one man in six will be diagnosed with prostate cancer during his lifetime, but only one man in 36 will die of this disease. About 80 percent of men who reach age 80 have prostate cancer cells in their prostate. Besides being male, there are other factors, such as age, race, and family history that may contribute to the risk.
About Prostate Cancer. Prostate cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the prostate. The prostate is a gland in the male reproductive system. It lies just below the bladder (the organ that collects and empties urine) and in front of the rectum (the lower part of the intestine). 
Age. The greatest risk factor for prostate cancer is age. This risk increases significantly after the age of 50 in white men who have no family history of the disease and after the age of 40 in black men and men who have a close relative with prostate cancer. About 80 percent of men who reach age 80 have prostate cancer cells in their prostate. Besides being male, there are other factors, such as age, race, and family history that may contribute to the risk.
Prostate cancer. In the vast majority of cases, the prostate cancer starts in the gland cells-this is called adenocarcinoma. In this article, prostate cancer refers just to adenocarcinoma. Prostate cancer is mostly a very slow progressing disease. 1 Almost all prostate cancers are adenocarcinomas-cancers that begin in cells that make and release mucus and other fluids. 2  Prostate cancer often has no early symptoms. 3  Advanced prostate cancer can cause men to urinate more often or have a weaker flow of urine.
Prostate cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the prostate. The prostate is a gland in the male reproductive system. It lies just below the bladder (the organ that collects and empties urine) and in front of the rectum (the lower part of the intestine). The metastatic tumor is the same type of cancer as the primary tumor. For example, if prostate cancer spreads to the bone, the cancer cells in the bone are actually prostate cancer cells. The disease is metastatic prostate cancer, not bone cancer.
1 Prostate cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the prostate. 2  Signs of prostate cancer include a weak flow of urine or frequent urination. 3  Tests that examine the prostate and blood are used to detect (find) and diagnose prostate cancer. The metastatic tumor is the same type of cancer as the primary tumor. For example, if prostate cancer spreads to the bone, the cancer cells in the bone are actually prostate cancer cells. The disease is metastatic prostate cancer, not bone cancer.
Prostate cancer is a common disease that affects men, usually in middle age or later. In this disorder, certain cells in the prostate become abnormal and multiply without control or order to form a tumor. The prostate is a gland that surrounds the male urethra and helps produce semen, the fluid that carries sperm. Early prostate cancer usually does not cause pain, and most affected men exhibit no noticeable symptoms. Men are often diagnosed as the result of health screenings, such as a blood test for a substance called prostate specific antigen (PSA) or a medical procedure called a digital rectal exam.
This gland has two distinct tissue types: glandular tissue and muscular tissue. Glandular tissue in the prostate gland produces the fluid and the muscular tissue promotes the male ejaculation. Cancer of the Prostate. For a healthy person, cells grow and divide to produce more cells when the body needs them. Cancer of the prostate is caused if the cells keep dividing when new cells are not needed. This excess tissue forms a clump that is called a tumor. The tumor can be benign (not cancerous) or malignant (cancerous). 
Prostate cancer. Several types of cells are found in the prostate, but almost all prostate cancers develop from the gland cells (the cells that make the prostate fluid that is added to the semen). The medical term for a cancer that starts in gland cells is adenocarcinoma. 