Hypertensive heart disease is the No. 1 cause of death associated with high blood pressure. It refers to a group of disorders that includes heart failure, ischemic heart disease, hypertensive heart disease, and left ventricular hypertrophy (excessive thickening of the heart muscle). 
There are two primary hypertension types. For 95 percent of people with high blood pressure, the cause of their hypertension is unknown — this is called essential, or primary, hypertension. When a cause can be found, the condition is called secondary hypertension. 1  Essential hypertension. 2  This type of hypertension is diagnosed after a doctor notices that your blood pressure is high on three or more visits and eliminates all other causes of hypertension.
Kidney disease is the most common secondary cause of hypertension. Hypertension can also be caused by endocrine conditions, such as Cushing's syndrome, hyperthyroidism, hypothyroidism, acromegaly, Conn's syndrome or hyperaldosteronism, hyperparathyroidism and pheochromocytoma. It increases the risk of ischemic heart disease strokes, peripheral vascular disease, and other cardiovascular diseases, including heart failure, aortic aneurysms, diffuse atherosclerosis, chronic kidney disease, and pulmonary embolism. Hypertension is also a risk factor for cognitive impairment and dementia.
Overview. There are two main types of hypertension, and there are four types of hypertension that are less common. Depending on the type of hypertension, the cause could be known or unknown. It is suspected that hypertension results from a combination of factors related to genetics, diet, and lifestyle. Secondary Hypertension. With this type of high blood pressure, the cause is apparent and can be an underlying condition such as a thyroid problem or Cushing's syndrome. Problems with the kidneys, sleep apnea, and some conditions during pregnancy can cause secondary h
Some common underlying causes include pulmonary arterial hypertension from some types of congenital heart disease, connective tissue disease, coronary artery disease, high blood pressure, liver disease (cirrhosis), blood clots to the lungs, and chronic lung diseases like emphysema. 
Group 2 Pulmonary Hypertension. Group 2 includes PH with left heart disease. Conditions that affect the left side of the heart, such as mitral valve disease or long-term high blood pressure, can cause left heart disease and PH. Left heart disease is likely the most common cause of PH. 
Hypertension is classified as either primary (essential) hypertension or secondary hypertension. About 90–95% of cases are categorized as primary hypertension, defined as high blood pressure with no obvious underlying cause. It increases the risk of ischemic heart disease strokes, peripheral vascular disease, and other cardiovascular diseases, including heart failure, aortic aneurysms, diffuse atherosclerosis, chronic kidney disease, and pulmonary embolism. Hypertension is also a risk factor for cognitive impairment and dementia.
Heart disease is the No. 1 cause of death associated with hypertension. Learn more about related heart conditions, their diagnoses, and treatment. Kidney Disease and Hypertension. Hypertension is a major cause of kidney disease and kidney failure. There are symptoms to watch for -- and treatment options. Learn more
When high blood pressure is cause by another condition or disease process, it is called secondary high blood pressure or secondary hypertension. When only the systolic blood pressure number (the top number) is high it is called isolated systolic hypertension, which is common in older adults. Types of Hypertension. There are three general types of high blood pressure. Essential hypertension occurs when the condition has no known cause. This is also known as primary hypertension or idiopathic