In more than ten years of dream interpretation I have found these symbols in dreams by a wide spectrum of people, and 80 percent of these symbols mean the same thing. Many of the symobls below have scriptural support as well which only strengthens the argument that there are a few universal symbols. I want to caution once again that at any time these symbols could mean different things to different people but these exceptions seem to be rare--at least in my experience.
Alchemy wasn't just a quest to transform lead into gold: it was a quest to transform base things into greater, more spiritual things, including the elevation of the soul. Alchemists coded their notes in a variety of personalized symbols. Here is a collection of common ones. Geometric Symbols. Because basic geometric shapes are so simplistic in construction, they are found all over the world with a wide variety of uses and meanings. However, there are a variety of meanings that are more commonly ascribed to these shapes, particular when used in a religious or magical context.
Native American religions are the spiritual practices of the indigenous peoples of the Americas. Traditional Native American ceremonial ways can vary widely, and are based on the differing histories and beliefs of individual tribes, clans and bands. 
The use of patterns is part of the way that Islamic art represents nature and objects by their spiritual qualities, not their physical and material qualities. The repeated geometric patterns often make use of plant motifs, and these are called arabesques. Stylised arabic lettering is also common. So Islamic art focuses on the spiritual representation of objects and beings, and not their physical qualities. The Muslim artist does not attempt to replicate nature as it is, but tries to convey what it represents. This lets the artist, and those who experience the art, get closer to Allah.
Philosophy of religion is the philosophical study of the meaning and nature of religion. It includes the analyses of religious concepts, beliefs, terms, arguments, and practices of religious adherents. 
Many people find it in religious or spiritual worship or practice. The questions of religion have occupied humanity since our beginnings. Questions here include the ancient, organized, and new & evolving religions; faith, spirituality, and alternate pathways; as well as those of people still searching. 
For example, the three-legged frog is considered to be a symbol of good fortune in both Chinese and Japanese culture, however, in early Christian references the frog was seen as an unclean animal and sometimes a symbol of the Devil. As you can see, some symbols do not have a universal meaning. 
You are surrounded with reminders of your true nature, your inner spiritual being. That inner spirit speaks to you without words through symbols. These spiritual symbols represent the expression of your inner being in a way that cannot be explained in words. Symbols in Nature. In the natural world and from primitive times these symbols are common in many cultures. For example the bird represents freedom from the physical earth-bound life. Birds are also considered messengers from the higher power. Flowers like the Rose is a universal symbol for lov
May these items below form the first additions of your own dream vocabulary. Other future symbols have to be discerned by you, but hopefully with some help from the Lord and others in the Body of Christ! Common Dream Symbols and Their Meaning : House-represents the person; their life; one's spiritual state. Many of the symobls below have scriptural support as well which only strengthens the argument that there are a few universal symbols. I want to caution once again that at any time these symbols could mean different things to different people but these exceptions seem to be rare--at least in my experience.