Originally a Norman form of a Germanic name, which was composed of the elements hrod fame and heid kind, sort, type. The Normans introduced it to England in the forms Roese and Rohese. From an early date it was associated with the word for the fragrant flower rose (derived from Latin rosa). 
Additional information: The girl name Rose is of Latin origin, from the Latin 'Rosa' meaning the Rose blossom, the romantic flower of love. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Rose and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Rose and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds.
It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Rose is  rose . Flower name from rosa. The name, which the Normans brought to Britain in the 11th century, can also be traced to the Old German words hros meaning horse, or hrod meaning  fame, renown. The flower meaning is possibly more valid, given the Christian symbolic meaning of the rose. The rosa mystica is the Virgin Mary. An elaboration, Rosario is popular in Spain. Actress Rosario Dawson; TV talk show host Rosie O'Donnell.
Rose-Meaning of Rose. Tweet. Rose has its origins in the Latin language, and it is used largely in English and French. The name evolved as a short form of compound Germanic names, introduced to England by the Normans in the 11th century in forms such as Rohese (Medieval) and Roese (Medievel). Rose is an English form of Rosa. Rose is also a contracted form of the English Rosemary. See also the related forms, Heiderose, Melrose, Rohana, Rosangelica, Rosanne, Rosemarie. Rose is a classic favorite. Currently it is still popular as a baby girl name, but not to the degree it was in the past.
Variant forms inherit the origin and meaning of the name Rose. Rose's language of origin is Germanic. It is derived from the words 'hros' which means horse; 'hruod' fame. The name first developed as a short form of Germanic names with the first element 'hros' or 'hruod'. Rose is an English form of Rosa. Rose is also a contracted form of the English Rosemary. See also the related forms, Heiderose, Melrose, Rohana, Rosangelica, Rosanne, Rosemarie. Rose is a classic favorite. Currently it is still popular as a baby girl name, but not to the degree it was in the past.
Rose Name Meaning. English, Scottish, French, and German: from the name of the flower, Middle English, Old French, Middle High German rose (Latin rosa), in various applications.
Origin of the name Rose: Originally, Rose was a short form of any of the old Germanic names in use in England in the Middle Ages that contained the element hros, ros (horse). Flower names began being used in the 19th century, and now Rose is bestowed with reference to the flower. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 
Greek name. In Greek, the name Rose means-of the rose blossom. Other origins for the name Rose include-Greek, Scottish, English, German, French, Scottish.The name Rose is most often used as a girl name or female name. Greek Name Meaning-of the rose blossom. Origin-Greece. 
English Meaning: The name Rosa is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Rosa is: Rose (flower name). German Meaning: The name Rosa is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Rosa is: Noted protector. Also a Horse; fame. 
Scottish Meaning: The name Rose is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Rose is: Flower. American Meaning: The name Rose is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Rose is: Flower.