Directions: 1  In a bowl, mix the balsamic vinegar, olive oil, honey, brown sugar, soy sauce, garlic, onion powder and season with salt and pepper. 2  Add the chicken breasts to a large zip-closed bag and pour the marinade over top. 3  Close the top and toss the chicken. 4  Marinate overnight or until ready to grill. Directions: 1  In a bowl mix the lime juice and zest, oil, soy sauce, honey, pepper, garlic and season with salt and pepper. 2  Mix well. 3  Add the chicken breasts to a large zip-closed bag and pour the marinade over top. 4
Preheat oven to 450. (If lamb was marinated overnight, remove from refrigerator 1 hour prior to cooking.) Place potatoes in a large pot and cover with cold water by 2 inches; season with salt. Bring to a boil; reduce to a simmer and cook until potatoes are tender when pierced with a knife, about 15 minutes. Drain potatoes. Directions. Roughly chop strips of lemon zest. In a medium bowl, combine lemon zest and juice, garlic, and rosemary; whisk in oil. Pat lamb dry and season with salt and pepper. Place lamb in a 1-gallon resealable bag and pour in marinade. Seal bag, pressing to remove as much air as possible.
Click here to see how she does it. In a small bowl stir together the first 7 ingredients. Put the lamb chops in a sealable plastic bag and pour the marinade over them. Move the chops around in the bag so the marinade coats them well. Marinate for 1 hour. Grill or broil the chops for 3 to 4 minutes per side for medium rare. 
1 Place marinade & Leg of Lamb Roast in 1 Gallon size freezer bag. 2  Try to get as much air out of bag as possible. 3  Place in refrigerator in shallow pan, in case of leak. 4  Turn every time you think of it. 5  I put this together in an afternoon and allow the roast to marinate overnight & part of the next day. 
Preparation. 1. Combine first 8 ingredients in a large zip-top plastic bag. Add lamb; seal and marinate in refrigerator 8 hours or overnight. 2. Preheat oven to 450°. 3. Heat a large nonstick skillet over medium-high heat. Coat pan with cooking spray. Remove lamb from bag, and discard marinade.
Ready In. 1  In a small bowl, combine the honey, mustard, rosemary, ground black pepper, lemon zest and garlic. 2  Mix well and apply to the lamb. 3  Cover and marinate in the refrigerator overnight. 1
1 Place chicken in the mixture. 2  Cover and marinate chicken in the fridge 8 hours or overnight. 3  Remove chicken from marinade just before you turn on your grill or broiler to let come up a few degrees. 4  Discard marinade. 5  Lightly oil your grill or broiler pan. 
1 In a bowl mix the lime juice and zest, oil, soy sauce, honey, pepper, garlic and season with salt and pepper. 2  Mix well. 3  Add the chicken breasts to a large zip-closed bag and pour the marinade over top. 4  Close the top and toss the chicken. 5  Marinate overnight or until ready to grill. Directions: 1 
2 tbsp chopped green coriander. 1/2 kg potatoes peeled and cubed. Marinate the mutton overnight or for a couple of hours. Heat oil and fry the potato cubes till brown. Remove from oil and fry till golden brown .Fry the spices (bay leaves, cumin, cardamom,cinnamon, garlic) and gur. 
1 In a bowl, mix the balsamic vinegar, olive oil, honey, brown sugar, soy sauce, garlic, onion powder and season with salt and pepper. 2  Add the chicken breasts to a large zip-closed bag and pour the marinade over top. 3  Close the top and toss the chicken. 4  Marinate overnight or until ready to grill. Directions: 1  In a bowl mix the lime juice and zest, oil, soy sauce, honey, pepper, garlic and season with salt and pepper. 2  Mix well. 3  Add the chicken breasts to a large zip-closed bag and pour the marinade over top. 4