Definition. Autosomal dominant is one of several ways that a trait or disorder can be passed down (inherited) through families. In an autosomal dominant disease, if you inherit the abnormal gene from only one parent, you can get the disease.
A recessive trait is the phenotype that is not seen in the heterozygous genotype, and attached earlobes are a recessive trait. This brings us back to our main topic, which we can now define. A dominant trait is the phenotype that is seen when the heterozygous genotype is present.
(In genetic terms, a dominant trait is one that is phenotypically expressed in heterozygotes). A dominant trait is opposed to a recessive trait which is expressed only when two copies of the gene are present. (In genetic terms, a recessive trait is one that is phenotypically expressed only in homozygotes).
an inherited characteristic that is determined by a dominant allele. Polydactyly is an example of a dominant trait; individuals with either one or two copies of the polydactyly allele have extra fingers or toes.
Dominant trait. Definition. noun. (genetics) An inherited trait that results from the expression of the dominant allele over the recessive allele. Supplement. The inheritance of one or two copies of the dominant alleles results in the expression of a dominant trait. Also called: 1  dominant character.
Dominant trait. A genetic trait in which one copy of the gene is sufficient to yield an outward display of the trait; dominant genes mask the presence of recessive genes; dominant traits can be inherited from a single parent.
Recessive trait. Definition. noun. (genetics) A genetic trait that results from the expression of the two recessive alleles. Supplement. When the dominant allele is lacking or when the two alleles present are both recessive, their expression results in a r
Another way to define a recessive trait is one that is never expressed by the heterozygous genotype. For example, the heterozygous genotype for earlobe type (Ee) produces detached earlobes because the dominant allele (E) hides the effects of the recessive allele (e).