Contractors have different square footage rates for labor based on their company and it's ability. For material costs only, you should expect an estimate of 30 to 33 cents per square foot. Contractors may have local area drywall supply stores from whom they order material. Because of these wage expectations, a small remodel job will quote at a much higher square footage rate than an entire house. For example, the work cited above requires only 16 to 17 sheets of drywall. However, it would take at least three days of labor to hang, tape and texture this one room project. Using a square foot rate of $1 per square foot, this job would only costs $705 for both, labor and material. Material costs being about $300 would leave only $400 for labor. For a good quality journeyman to spend 3 or more days for both hanging and finishing, $400 is not going to be quite enough
This estimate is for Level 4 drywall installation: fit and secure drywall, tape and mud joints with 2 coats of joint compound, cover fasteners with 3 coats of joint compound. All dried joint compound shall be flat, smooth and free of tool marks and ridges. Note that surface texturing or skim coating is NOT included in this estimate. For a basic 500 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install Drywall ranges between $1.43 - $1.76 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 
For smaller jobs that are less than forty sheets expect $200 to $300 per journeyman worker per day plus the cost of material needed. Try using our drywall estimating calculator. Because of these wage expectations, a small remodel job will quote at a much higher square footage rate than an entire house. For example, the work cited above requires only 16 to 17 sheets of drywall. However, it would take at least three days of labor to hang, tape and texture this one room project. Using a square foot rate of $1 per square foot, this job would only costs $705 for both, labor and material. Material costs being about $300 would leave only $400 for labor. For a good quality journeyman to spend 3 or more days for both hanging and finishing, $400 is not going to be quite enough
6. Write down each price per square foot for each contractor, deducting any discounts you may be eligible for, and then determine how much each company will charge for drywall labor by multiplying the cost per square foot by the square footage of the walls. Warning. 1  This information is based on estimating only the installation of the drywall. 2  Other factors, such as the materials needed, removing existing drywall, repairing any structural issues, and finishing the drywall are typically not included in the square-foot estimate for just installation.
1 The Drywall-The room described above is going to demand around 600 square feet of drywall to cover the walls and the ceilings. 2  These will be sheets sized at 4'x8' and cost around $9 each. 3  This means that roughly 20 sheets are required for this project, which will cost around $180 total. 1 Most carpenters estimate that they will require roughly one pound for every 500 square feet of drywall installed. 2  The average cost for a single pound is $6, which means that around two pounds will be necessary for the project, at a cost of $12.
The average costs and materials associated with a project like this would include: 1  The Drywall-The room described above is going to demand around 600 square feet of drywall to cover the walls and the ceilings. 2  These will be sheets sized at 4'x8' and cost around $9 each. 1 Most carpenters estimate that they will require roughly one pound for every 500 square feet of drywall installed. 2  The average cost for a single pound is $6, which means that around two pounds will be necessary for the project, at a cost of $12.
Cost of new drywall or gypsum panels installation calculated per sheet (4’ x 8’) as its manufactured dimensions or estimated as a charge per square foot. Every remodeling project associated with small drywall repair priced base on work complexity, time spent, and hourly rate of a drywall installer. Average cost of a new drywall to get installed will vary from $41.5 to $60.0 per 4'x8'x5/8 sheet including labor and materials or from $1.30 to $1.88 per square foot. 
Most contractors include overhead in this estimate, as well as the cost of storing the materials, delivering to the site, paying the workers for the installation, and cleaning up the job. The cost of labor for drywall is typically broken down by square foot, and this number varies by location. As of the time of this article, in the Bay area, drywall labor can cost as much as $1.30 per square foot, especially when choosing a licensed and bonded contractor. Warning. 1  This information is based on estimating only the installation of the drywall. 2  Other factors, such as the materials needed, removing existing drywall, repairing any structural issues, and finishing the drywall are typically not included in the square-foot estimate for just installation.