How. Click the worksheet that you want to print with row and column headings. On the Ribbon, click the Page Layout tab. In the Sheet Options group, under Headings, select the Print check box. Note You can also click, and then under Print, select the Row and column headings check box. To print the worksheet, press CTRL+P, and then click Print.
Excel 2013 automatically creates row numbers on the left hand side of any spreadsheet, but these are static and can't be included in the spreadsheet's calculations. To create automatic numbers within your workbook, you can use a number of Excel's tools. 
Printing Row and Column Headers. Click Print Titles in the Page Layout's Page Setup group or click the small arrow at the bottom right of the Page Layout's Sheet Options group. Check Row and Column Headers and then click OK to add row numbers and column letters to each page of the printout for selected sheets. You can also click the first sheet tab in a range, hold the Shift key and then click the last sheet tab to also select all sheets in between. Click Print Titles in the Page Layout's Page Setup group or click the small arrow at the bottom right of the Page Layout's Sheet Options group.
A1 Vs R1C1 Referencing Style. By default, Excel references cells using the A1 reference style that contains a column letter, followed by a row number. The optional R1C1 reference style uses numbers for both rows and columns. Furthermore, references in this latter system are relative to the cell that uses the reference. You can also click the first sheet tab in a range, hold the Shift key and then click the last sheet tab to also select all sheets in between. Click Print Titles in the Page Layout's Page Setup group or click the small arrow at the bottom right of the Page Layout's Sheet Options group. Check Row and Column Headers and then click OK to add row numbers and column letters to each page of the printout for selected sheets
Print row and column headings. By default, Microsoft Excel does not print the column headings (A, B, C, etc.) or row headings (1, 2, 3, etc.) that you see on screen. Here’s how you can print column and row headings. Click the worksheet that you want to print with row and column headings. Click Page Layout. In the Sheet Options group, under Headings, select the Print check box. Click File, and then click Print. Keyboard shortcut You can also press Ctrl+P. Click the Print button or adjust Settings before you click the Print button. By default, Excel uses the A1 reference style, which refers to columns as letters and rows as numbers.
4. Click the box next to 'Print' under 'Headings' to turn on the row and column titles for printing for the worksheet. Microsoft Office Excel 2003. 5. Select the worksheet whose row numbers you want to print. If you want to have row numbers print on multiple worksheets, you must repeat the process for each worksheet. 2. Click 'Page Layout' from the options across the top of the screen. 3. Locate the 'Sheet Options' subgroup, which will be the fourth subgroup from the left.
Maria wonders if it is possible to print out a worksheet and show the row numbers (1, 2, 3, etc.) on the printout. She wants just the row numbers, not the column letters. The short answer is no, it is not possible. Excel allows you to print both row numbers and column letters, but not row numbers alone. You can, however, use a workaround to get row numbers. All you need to do is add a new column A (insert a blank column to the left of the existing column A) and then use this formula in each cell of the column:
Maria wonders if it is possible to print out a worksheet and show the row numbers (1, 2, 3, etc.) on the printout. She wants just the row numbers, not the column letters. The short answer is no, it is not possible. Excel allows you to print both row numbers and column letters, but not row numbers alone. You can, however, use a workaround to get row numbers. All you need to do is add a new column A (insert a blank column to the left of the existing column A) and then use this formula in each cell of the column: The formula returns the row number of the formula's row.
Microsoft Office Excel 2007. 1. Select the worksheet whose row numbers you want to print. If you want to have row numbers print on multiple worksheets, you must repeat the process for each worksheet. 2. Click 'Page Layout' from the options across the top of the screen. 3. Locate the 'Sheet Options' subgroup, which will be the fourth subgroup from the left.