Add all of your debt up: the student loans, mortgage, car payments, any installment loans, credit card balances, the $200 you owe Uncle Joe, and anything else you need to repay. This is your total debt. To calculate your net worth, subtract your total debt from your total assets. Hopefully, that second number is much larger than the first. Remember, calculating your net worth is a valuable starting point to build goals and can help you confront the reality of your finances.
A Quick Estimate. For a quick estimate of your annual salary, double your hourly salary and add a thousand to the end. If you make $20 an hour, you make approximately $40,000 a year. If you make $25 an hour, you make about $50,000 a year. You can also figure out your approximate hourly salary if you know your annual salary. If you make $60,000 a year, your hourly salary is approximately $30 an hour. $75,000 a year is about $37.50 an hour. If you make an hourly wage and you'd like a more exact number for your annual salary, you first need to figure out how many hours a week you work.
I find it useful to calculate my net worth every month. My goal each month is to increase my net worth over the previous month, which means my expenses for the month was less than my income. I use the excess to pay down debts or increase personal savings. Now that you know about net worth and how it changes, you could use a program like Mint.com to automatically calculate your net worth in real time and manage all of your finances. If you’re worried about online security, then simply stick to the longhand calculation ever month!
In a nutshell, your net worth is really everything you own of significance (your assets) minus what you owe in debts (your liabilities). Assets include cash and investments, your home and other real estate, cars or anything else of value you own. I use the excess to pay down debts or increase personal savings. Now that you know about net worth and how it changes, you could use a program like Mint.com to automatically calculate your net worth in real time and manage all of your finances.
1 On the other hand, if you own a home worth $100,000, a car worth $20,000, and have a $50,000 mortgage, your net worth would be a positive $70,000 (or $120,000 of assets minus your $50,000 mortgage liability). 1 For instance, you might be able to sell your five-year-old TV for $100, but replacing it with a comparable new one might cost $250. 2  We’ll pretend your household possessions add up to $25,000, for a running total of $215,000. 3  Be careful not to double-count anything.
The easiest way to define net worth is that it is what you own, minus what you owe. It is how much you have left over when you take everything you own, sell it, and use the proceeds to pay off what you owe. 1  Your net worth gives you a good idea of your overall wealth, your the health of your financial situation. 1 For instance, you might be able to sell your five-year-old TV for $100, but replacing it with a comparable new one might cost $250. 2  We’ll pretend your household possessions add up to $25,000, for a running total of $215,000. 3  Be careful not to double-count anything.
This is your target net worth. So if you are 30 years old and make $60,000 a year, you’ll be called a wealth accumulator if you have an actual net worth of $180,000 or more. To calculate your actual net worth, you simply add up all your assets, and subtract from that sum all your liabilities. 
3. Subtract liabilities from assets. Gathering up all the various dollar values is the most difficult part of this exercise; the actual calculation is quite simple. 1  That said, there are numerous online net worth calculators that can do the calculating for you, and which may help you keep your data more organized. 1 For instance, you might be able to sell your five-year-old TV for $100, but replacing it with a comparable new one might cost $250. 2  We’ll pretend your household possessions add up to $25,000, for a running total of $215,000. 3  Be careful not to double-count anything.
Your assets can be defined as everything you own that has monetary value. They may be liquid like a checking account or non-liquid like your home. If an asset is liquid, it simply means you don’t have to sell it first to realize its monetary value. A few general examples of assets are: 1  The market value of your home. You list and add up all your assets and all your liabilities. Then, you subtract your liabilities from your assets. Since determining your net worth is similar to taking a financial snapshot, you don’t consider your annual income, but rather how much money you have “in the bank” right now.
Calculate your net worth and more. Net worth is the value of all assets, minus the total of all liabilities. Put another way, net worth is what is owned minus what is owed. This net worth calculator helps determine your net worth. It also estimates how net worth could grow or decline over the next 10 years. Javascript is required for this calculator. If you are using Internet Explorer, you may need to select to 'Allow Blocked Content' to view this calculator. 