1 Cold freezer – The medicine should be stored in a well controlled temperature ranging between -20 °C to -10 °C. 2  Place cold – The drug must be kept in a temperatures ranging between 8 °C to 15 °C. 3  Fridge – The drug must be stored in a temperature ranging between 2 °C to 8 °C. 1 Room Temperature – The medicinal drug must be placed in a temperature ranging between 15 °C to 30 °C. 2  Hot – The drug must be stored in a place with temperatures above 40 ° C. 3  Warm – The medicine must be stored in a place with temperatures ranging between 30 °C to 40 °C.
There are two types of medicines that need storing at low temperature and Medicines that need storing at room temperature. 1  Medicines needing storage in low temperature: There are many medications that should be stored at low temperature. 2  However, these medicines should not be directly placed in the refrigerator. 1 Room Temperature – The medicinal drug must be placed in a temperature ranging between 15 °C to 30 °C. 2  Hot – The drug must be stored in a place with temperatures above 40 ° C. 3  Warm – The medicine must be stored in a place with temperatures ranging between 30 °C to 40 °C.
1 The refrigerator's temperature fluctuates since the door is opened often, the medicines must be kept in a locked container stored away from heat, direct sun light and safely out of reach of small children. 2  Store the medicine in the refrigerator only when the label instructs clearly to do so. 1 Room Temperature – The medicinal drug must be placed in a temperature ranging between 15 °C to 30 °C. 2  Hot – The drug must be stored in a place with temperatures above 40 ° C. 3  Warm – The medicine must be stored in a place with temperatures ranging between 30 °C to 40 °C.
The ideal temperature range to store them is between 7°C and 9°C. The potatoes will stay dormant in the cool (i.e. they won't sprout). Room temperature ought to be fine if you don't store them for prolonged periods. In the fridge they will keep for a couple of months. In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40°F (0-4°C). Your freezer must be below 32°F (0°C). I keep mine as cold as it will go.
Store at 2°-8°C (36°-46°F) : Some products are very heat sensitive but must not be frozen. These are usually kept in the first and second part of the refrigerator (never the freezer). This temperature is appropriate for storing vaccines for a short period of time. Keep cool: Store between 8°-15°C (45°-59°F). Store at room temperature: Store at 15°-25°C (59°-77°F). It means “room temperature” or normal storage conditions, which means storage in a dry, clean, well ventilated area at room temperatures between 15° to 25°C (59°-77°F) or up to 30°C, depending on climatic conditions. Medicines with stability problems under tropical conditions: Oral solids (tablets).
Normally a domestic freezer is best set to −18 °C (0 °F) or colder, as that's what the expiration dates for many food items are based on. It's also a requirement for freezers in restaurants, supermarkets & other places that sell food (at least here in Europe) to maintain a temperature of at most -18 °C. In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40°F (0-4°C). Your freezer must be below 32°F (0°C). I keep mine as cold as it will go.
1 Keep the refrigerator temperature at or below 40° F (4° C). 2  The freezer temperature should be 0° F (-18° C). 3  Check temperatures periodically. 4  Appliance thermometers are the best way of knowing these temperatures and are generally inexpensive. 1 Also, when putting food away, don't crowd the refrigerator or freezer so tightly that air can't circulate. 2  Keep your appliances at the proper temperatures. 3  Keep the refrigerator temperature at or below 40° F (4° C). 4  The freezer temperature should be 0° F (-18° C). 5
1 Medicines needing storage at room temperature: Never put the medicines that have instructions like “store at room temperature” in refrigerator, especially the capsules and tablets. 2  It is our common assumption that since the temperature in the refrigerator is low, the medicines will last longer. 1 Room Temperature – The medicinal drug must be placed in a temperature ranging between 15 °C to 30 °C. 2  Hot – The drug must be stored in a place with temperatures above 40 ° C. 3  Warm – The medicine must be stored in a place with temperatures ranging between 30 °C to 40 °C.
When it comes to protecting yourself and your family from foodborne illness, one of your most effective tools is the kitchen refrigerator. In fact, at room temperature, the numbers of bacteria that cause foodborne sickness can double every 20 minutes! 1 Also, keep in mind that your car is probably even hotter than typical room temperature, so it's important not to leave groceries in your car longer than absolutely necessary — and never more than 2 hours (or 1 hour on a hot day). 2  Leftovers: These need to be refrigerated or frozen within two hours, as well.
1 If you do lose power, keep the doors to your fridge and freezer closed as much as possible to keep foods cold. 2  Before using any foods, check your refrigerator and freezer thermometers. 3  If the fridge is still at or below 40 °F, or the food has been above 40 °F for only two hours or less, it should be safe to eat. 1 Also, keep in mind that your car is probably even hotter than typical room temperature, so it's important not to leave groceries in your car longer than absolutely necessary — and never more than 2 hours (or 1 hour on a hot day). 2  Leftovers: These need to be refrigerated or frozen within two hours, as well.