Blue cheese is a blanket term for cheeses which have been inoculated with Penicillium mold cultures, forming dark streaks, patches, or veins of blue-green mold.
Your suspicions are correct, DB. Blue and blue-green cheeses can be made from most cheese bases, whether the milk is from a cow, sheep, or goat. The main thing that makes a blue cheese blue is mold. Cheese making generally consists of three basic steps.
Some blue cheeses are injected with spores before the curds form and others have spores mixed in with the curds after they form. Blue cheeses are typically aged in a temperature-controlled environment such as a cave. Blue cheese can be eaten by itself or can be spread, crumbled or melted into or over foods.
Blue cheese is a general classification of cheeses that have had cultures of the mold Penicillium added so that the final product is spotted or veined throughout with blue, blue-grey, blue-green, or blue-brown mold and carries a distinct smell, either from that or various specially cultivated bacteria.
Exactly when this helpful bacteria is added during the cheesemaking process depends on the type of cheese being made. When blue cheese is made, it's often introduced after the curds are ladled into containers to drain and form into a whole wheel of cheese. Today, most cheesemakers use commercially manufactured Penicillium Roqueforti cultures that are freeze-dried. Anyone can order powdered cultures in the mail.
Blue cheese is believed to have been discovered by accident, when cheeses were stored in naturally temperature-and moisture-controlled caves, which happened to be favorable environments for many varieties of harmless mold. Roquefort is mentioned in texts as far back as 79 AD.
Blue Vein cheeses also called Blue cheese is a generic term used to describe cheese produced with cow's milk, sheep's milk, or goat's milk and ripened with cultures of the mold Penicillium. The final product is characterized by green, grey, blue or black veins or spots of mold throughout the body.