Betamethasone is a potent glucocorticoid steroid with anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive properties. Unlike other drugs with these effects, betamethasone does not cause water retention. It is applied as a topical cream, ointment, foam, lotion or gel to treat itching. Betamethasone sodium phosphate is sometimes prescribed as an intramuscular injection (I.M) for itching from various ailments, including allergic reactions to poison ivy and similar plants. It is used as a treatment for local psoriasis, as betamethasone dipropionate and salicylic acid, or as the combination betamethasone/calcipotriol. Betamethasone sodium phosphate is used orally and via injection with the same indications as other steroids.
Clotrimazole and betamethasone topical combination is used to treat fungus infections. Clotrimazole works by killing the fungus or preventing its growth. Betamethasone, a corticosteroid (cortisone-like medicine or steroid), is used to help relieve redness, swelling, itching, and other discomfort of fungus infections. Clotrimazole and betamethasone topical cream or lotion is applied to the skin to treat: 1  Ringworm of the foot (tinea pedis; athlete's foot);
What is BETNOVATE. The name of your medicine is BETNOVATE. It contains an active ingredient called betamethasone valerate. Betamethasone valerate is a type of cortisone and belongs to the group of medicines called the corticosteroids. BETNOVATE is available as a cream and an ointment. It is a topical corticosteroid, which is applied to the body surface (skin)
doctor or pharmacist. Keep this leaflet with the medicine. You may need to read it again. where the nose, cheeks, chin, What BETNOVATE-C. is used for. BETNOVATE-C is used to treat. various inflammatory skin. conditions, including eczema, psoriasis and dermatitis. It is often. used where there is or may be an. infection, as well as inflammation. Do not store BETNOVATE-C or any other medicine in the bathroom or near a sink. Do not car. Heat and dampness can destroy some medicines. Disposal If your doctor tells you to stop taking this medicine or the expiry date has passed, ask your pharmacist what to do with any medicine that is left over.
Considerations. Patients who are allergic to betamethasone valerate should not use Betnovate ointment. This product is not intended for use on any child under the age of one year. Women who are pregnant, breast-feeding, or may become pregnant should discuss use of Betnovate ointment before using it. Betnovate ointment works inside the cells of the skin by decreasing the release of certain inflammatory substances. The result is a corresponding reduction in swelling, itching, and redness. Betamethasone, the active ingredient in Betnovate ointment is suspended in a moisturizing base.
Keep this leaflet with the medicine. You may need to read it again. where the nose, cheeks, chin, What BETNOVATE-C is used for BETNOVATE-C is used to treat various inflammatory skin conditions, including eczema, psoriasis and dermatitis. It is often used where there is or may be an infection, as well as inflammation. Do not store BETNOVATE-C or any other medicine in the bathroom or near a sink. Do not car. Heat and dampness can destroy some medicines. Disposal If your doctor tells you to stop taking this medicine or the expiry date has passed, ask your pharmacist what to do with any medicine that is left over.
Betnovate ointment is a medication that is used to treat certain skin conditions including eczema and psoriasis. The active ingredient in Betnovate ointment is betamethasone valerate, which is a steroid. This topical ointment is used to help to reduce swelling, irritation, redness and itchiness associated with dermatitis and other skin ailments. Betnovate ointment works inside the cells of the skin by decreasing the release of certain inflammatory substances. The result is a corresponding reduction in swelling, itching, and redness. Betamethasone, the active ingredient in Betnovate ointment is suspended in a moisturizing base.
Medical uses [edit]. Betamethasone is a corticosteroid used as a topical cream to relieve skin irritation, such as itching and flaking from eczema. It is used as a treatment for local psoriasis, as betamethasone dipropionate and salicylic acid, or as the combination betamethasone/calcipotriol. Betamethasone sodium phosphate is used orally and via injection with the same indications as other steroids.
1 Review. Betamethasone dipropionate is the generic name of Diprolene and Diprolene AF, used to relieve skin discomfort caused by rashes, itching, and irritation. Betamethasone comes in a topical cream, lotion, and ointment, as well as a solution for injection. It has many uses, depending on the form your doctor prescribes. Although betamethasone topical cream and lotion are used to treat irritation and inflammation of the skin, doctors prescribe the injectable form of betamethasone, Celestone Soluspan, for multiple sclerosis flares and to help mature the lungs of babies born prematurely.