For example if you’re moving from Chicago to Boston, MA and you live in a 4 bedroom house, your average moving cost with a full service moving company can go over $10000. But if you are moving locally within 100 miles from your old place, this cost will be based on hourly rate and will vary from company to company. A 4 bedroom house can take more than 12h to move from one town to another. In this case your average moving costs will be around $1800 to $2500 without including any packing. For an accurate moving estimate calculation use our fast & easy free moving calculator.
Some houses are simply easier to move than others, explains Natalie Hammer, who runs Atlas Enterprises in Forest City, Iowa, with her husband, Chris Holland. Their typical price range for relocating a house is $8,000 to $30,000, but the cost will vary regionally. “It depends on the size of the house, how hard it is to get it up and onto the wheels, and how far you’re going,” she says. “It’s not a per-mile thing; it’s how difficult it is, and how heavy it is. The cost to relocate the house 3 miles was much higher — about $55,000 just for the move. That’s at the high end of what people pay for a move, mainly because the house was a three-story structure.
The cost of moving a house starts at about $12 to $16 per square foot but can quickly rise if the home is heavier, bigger or has farther to go [sources: McLinden, Burstein ]. One house builder estimates that moving a large home more than just a few miles can run about $150,000 to $200,000 [source: Fetters ]. In addition to the costs of the actual moving, these expenses should also be considered: 1  Cost of the new home, if you're not moving one that you already own. 2  Buying the land where the home will be placed. 3  Building a new foundation for the home. 4  Permitting and inspection costs
Monroe Becker, who works for the structural moving company Unruh House Moving in Moundridge, Kan., says typical costs for the jobs he works on are $10,000 to $14,000, but would be a lot higher if the houses included brick. The cost to relocate the house 3 miles was much higher — about $55,000 just for the move. That’s at the high end of what people pay for a move, mainly because the house was a three-story structure.
Based on my experience in the field, packing costs can be similar to the moving cost itself. A 4 bedroom house can take more than 12h to move from one town to another. In this case your average moving costs will be around $1800 to $2500 without including any packing. For an accurate moving estimate calculation use our fast & easy free moving calculator.
The average professional household move costs a whopping $12,230, according to a 2010 report by Worldwide ERC, an association that tracks mobility costs. However, this cost is for a full-service professional move, in which the moving company packs up your belongings and essentially handles the entire move for you. 
The short answer, yes. The Brick Victorian shown in the photo's was purchased for a dollar. Moved onto the site 2 miles from original site..utility line cost, land purchase, nine foot basement and renovation along with move cost is estimated to be $ 125,000.00. This home was recently appraised for $ 325,000.00. 
Randy and Julie Olson purchased this house for $1 and then had it delivered to their property in Brook Park, Minn. Moving the house cost about $22,000. Steve Moon got this house for free and then had it delivered to his property in Cannon Beach, Ore., for $25.000. “People are looking for a way to save on demolition and dump fees on one end and save on building costs on the other end.”. Depending on a home’s size, its condition and how far it has to be moved, the cost can range from $15,000 to $60,000.
The cost of moving the house will depend mainly on the time it takes, which depends in turn on the route to be travelled, the size of the house and the degree of difficulty. It can range from a few thousand dollars to move a single-piece house, with the price increasing for the number of pieces, location and difficulty. 
The house cost only $1, and in total, including a one-mile move and reconstruction costs, the couple spent $100,000 for a five-bedroom house worth twice that. 