Ferrous sulfate is a type of iron. You normally get iron from the foods you eat. In your body, iron becomes a part of your hemoglobin (HEEM o glo bin) and myoglobin (MY o glo bin). Hemoglobin carries oxygen through your blood to tissues and organs. Myoglobin helps your muscle cells store oxygen. 
1 Review. Feosol is the brand name of ferrous sulfate, an over-the-counter (OTC) nutritional supplement used to prevent or treat low levels of iron in the blood. Iron deficiency is the most common nutritional deficiency in the United States. Common Side Effects of Ferrous Sulfate. Ferrous sulfate may cause constipation and upset stomach. You should tell your doctor if these side effects become severe or do not go away. The medicine may also turn your stools dark, which is harmless.
Uses. This medication is an iron supplement used to treat or prevent low blood levels of iron (e.g., for anemia or during pregnancy). Iron is an important mineral that the body needs to produce red blood cells and keep you in good health. 
Ferrous sulfate is a mineral. It supplies iron to your body, which is needed to help your blood carry oxygen to your organs. The medicine is often used to help people with iron-deficiency anemia, whose bodies have too few red blood cells because of poor diet, excess bleeding, other disorders, or pregnancy. Common Side Effects of Ferrous Sulfate. Ferrous sulfate may cause constipation and upset stomach. You should tell your doctor if these side effects become severe or do not go away. The medicine may also turn your stools dark, which is harmless.
Ferrous Sulfate is classified as an iron preparation indicated for the prevention and treatment of iron-deficiency anemia, a condition wherein there are too few red blood cells inside one’s body. This condition may be due to poor diet, pregnancy, excess bleeding, or other medical problems. Symptoms of iron deficiency anemia usually subsides within a few days of taking ferrous sulfate, but for severe cases it will take about 6 months of medication to see improved results depending on the condition of the patient.
Ferrous sulfate is also used as a dietary supplement in the form of iron. Ferrous Sulfate is available in different forms: coated long-acting tablets, regular extended-release capsules, and oral liquid (drops, syrup and elixir). This medication should be taken exactly as directed to prevent over dosage and untoward reactions to the body. Symptoms of iron deficiency anemia usually subsides within a few days of taking ferrous sulfate, but for severe cases it will take about 6 months of medication to see improved results depending on the condition of the patient.
Iron(II) sulfate (British English: iron(II) sulphate) or ferrous sulfate is a salt with the formula Fe SO4. Together with other iron compounds, ferrous sulfate is used to fortify foods and to treat iron-deficiency anemia. Constipation is a frequent and uncomfortable side effect associated with the administration of oral iron supplements. Stool softeners often are prescribed to prevent constipation.
ferrous gluconate a hematinic that is less irritating to the gastrointestinal tract than other hematinics, and generally used as a substitute when ferrous sulfate cannot be tolerated. ferrous sulfate the most widely used hematinic for the treatment of iron deficiency anemia. It is believed to be less irritating than equivalent amounts of ferric salts and is more effective. All iron preparations should be administered after meals, never on an empty stomach. ferrous gluconate. a hematinic that is less irritating to the gastrointestinal tract than other hematinics, and generally used as a substitute when ferrous sulfate cannot be tolerated. ferrous selinite. is insoluble and soils rich in iron oxide tend to be nontoxic because of the formation of this compound.
Ferrous sulfate is a type of iron. You normally get iron from the foods you eat. In your body, iron becomes a part of your hemoglobin (HEEM o glo bin) and myoglobin (MY o glo bin). Hemoglobin carries oxygen through your blood to tissues and organs. Myoglobin helps your muscle cells store oxygen. Folic acid helps your body produce and maintain new cells, and also helps prevent changes to DNA that may lead to cancer. Ferrous sulfate and folic acid is used to treat iron deficiency anemia (a lack of red blood cells caused by having too little iron in the body). Ferrous sulfate and folic acid may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide