The creatinine levels in both urine and blood are determined and compared. Normal creatinine clearance for healthy women is 88-128 mL/min. and 97 to 137 mL/min. in males (normal levels may vary slightly between labs). Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) level is another indicator of kidney function. 
If kidney function begins to decline, BUN and creatinine rise. A normal creatinine depends on muscle mass and age. In general, a normal creatine is 0.5 to 1.2 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL). A normal BUN is 7 to 20 mg/dL. Remember that different laboratories use different testing equipment, and may have slightly different ranges for normal. In cases of dehydration, BUN may increase in a higher proportion than the creatinine. A normal BUN-to-creatinine ratio is between 10 to 1 and 20 to 1. (For example, a BUN of 14 and a creatinine of 1.2 would be a ratio of 12.).
Only in renal disorders will creatinine be abnormally elevated. Normal levels of BUN are between 10 to 20 mg/dL for an adult and 5 to 18 mg/dL for a child. Normal creatinine levels are between .5 to 1.1 mg/dL for an adult female and .6 to 1.2 mg/dL for an adult male. Creatinine levels are lower in young children and the elderly as a result of reduced muscle mass. As with creatinine, creatinine clearance is slightly lower in children and the elderly. The normal adult male can expect a range between 107 to 139 mL/min and the adult female between 87 to 107 mL/min.
Normal levels. Normal levels of BUN are between 10 to 20 mg/dL for an adult and 5 to 18 mg/dL for a child. Normal creatinine levels are between .5 to 1.1 mg/dL for an adult female and .6 to 1.2 mg/dL for an adult male. Creatinine levels are lower in young children and the elderly as a result of reduced muscle mass. As with creatinine, creatinine clearance is slightly lower in children and the elderly. The normal adult male can expect a range between 107 to 139 mL/min and the adult female between 87 to 107 mL/min.
Blood urea nitrogen (BUN) measures the amount of urea nitrogen in bloodstream. Urea is formed in liver as the end product of protein metabolism and digestion. Urea is transported to the kidneys for excretion. A normal range for blood urea nitrogen is generally 8 to 24 mg/dl for adult males and 6 to 21 mg/dl for females. Generally, a high blood urea nitrogen level means that the kidneys are not performing well, particularly if the result is above 50mg/dl. Normal range of serum creatinine level will differ with age, gender and physical constitute. In adult men, normal range of serum creatinine is 0.9-1.3mg/dl; while in adult women, normal range of creatinine is 0.6 to 1.1mg/dl.
In children, the normal range of creatinine is 0.2 to 1.0mg/dl but will increase with age as there is better and better physical constitute and muscle buildup. Two units are often used to measure creatinine level, this is, mg/dl and umol/l. 1 mg/dl equals to 88.4umol/l. Normal range of serum creatinine level will differ with age, gender and physical constitute. In adult men, normal range of serum creatinine is 0.9-1.3mg/dl; while in adult women, normal range of creatinine is 0.6 to 1.1mg/dl.
Normal levels of creatinine and BUN. Te normal range for creatinine in the blood may be 0.6 to 1.3 milligrams per deciliter (53 to 115 micromoles per liter), although this can vary from lab to lab, between men and women, and by age. Since men usually have high larger muscle mass, the amount of creatinine in the blood is often higher than women. Creatinine and BUN levels are important indexes to measure how well kidneys are functioning.If creatinine and BUN levels keep higher than normal for a long time, it may prove that your kidneys are not working well.
Normal levels of creatinine in the blood are approximately 0.6 to 1.2 milligrams (mg) per deciliter (dL) in adult males and 0.5 to 1.1 milligrams per deciliter in adult females. 
In general,the normal BUN level ranges from 7 to 20mg/dL(2.5 to 7.1mmol/L).However, the normal BUN levels may vary with the lab, and your age. Urea nitrogen levels tend to increase with age. Infants have lower levels than other people do, and the range in children varies. Creatinine and BUN levels are important indexes to measure how well kidneys are functioning.If creatinine and BUN levels keep higher than normal for a long time, it may prove that your kidneys are not working well.