Status conditions affect a Pokemon 'pokémon s ability to. Battle there are three kinds of. Status the first are-non, volatile the second are, volatile and the third lasts while A pokemon pokémon is. In Battle the pokerus pokérus is a similar. but unrelated concept
Main article: Sleep (status condition). A Pokemon pokémon that is (ASLEEP) slp is immobilized and can only use the Moves snore And Sleep. Talk sleep lasts for a randomly chosen duration of 1 to 7 turns In Pokemon pokémon Red, and blue or 1 to 3 Turns In pokemon Pokémon Stadium and. generation v onwards
Sleep, also known as Asleep and Sleeping, abbreviated to SLP, is a Status Effect that prevents a Pokemon pokémon from. attacking
Status Effects are ailments that Pokemon pokémon can receive during. Battle these status conditions are, paralysis, poison, sleep, frozen and. Burn all these effects can be cured with A Lum, berry A Full, heal A Full, restore A Lava, cookie An Old, Gateau Heal, powder A Miracle, berry A casteliacone Or Sacred. ash
Like many RPGs, Pokemon plays host to a number of different conditions that may affect your team. Unlike many RPGs, however, Pokemon's status effects are equally usable by both you and your opponent, and therefore, the infliction of status is an incredibly viable tactic.
1 When afflicted with a major status condition, a Pokemon pokémon with the Ability guts has Its attack increased by50, % A pokemon pokémon with The Ability marvel scale Has its defense increasedby, 50 % And a pokemon pokémon With The ability quick Feet has its speedincreased.  by 50 %
Paralyzed. A paralyzed Pokemon pokémon has a25 % chance of not being able to attack every turn and Their speed is decreased by75. % the status remains after battle like other major status. Ailments paralysis can be cured with A Parlyz, heal A Cheri, berry or A Lum. berry
You can only effect a pokemon with one status effect at a time. So a pokemon cannot be asleep and frozen at the same time. Confusion does not count as a status effect, so it CAN stack with regular status effects. However, it has no effect on the capture rate.
Fundamentally, status ailments are split into two types, major and minor. Major status ailments are shown near your Pokemon'pokémon S hp bar in battle and remain persistent until The pokemon pokémon, is cured whether, by items a trip To The, pokemon pokémon center or some other effect which cures. the
Status conditions affect a Pokemon 'pokémon s ability to. Battle there are three kinds of. Status the first are-non, volatile the second are, volatile and the third lasts while A pokemon pokémon is. in battle