1 Jock itch is a very common groin rash. 2  Roughly half of jock itch is due to fungus. 3  The remainder is caused by moisture, irritation, and bacterial overgrowth. 4  Symptoms and signs of jock itch include. 5  pink or red rash in groin folds, 6  itching, 7  pain, 8  odor. 1 Roughly half of jock itch is due to fungus. 2  The remainder is caused by moisture, irritation, and bacterial overgrowth. 3  Symptoms and signs of jock itch include. 4  pink or red rash in groin folds, 5  itching, 6  pain, 7  odor.
Fungal infections of the skin are very common and include athlete's foot, jock itch, ringworm, and yeast infections. Ringworm Pictures: Athlete's Foot, Jock Itch, and More. 1 This form of athlete's foot can cause itching, burning, and scaling and the infection can spread to the sole of the foot. 2  Moccasin: A moccasin-type infection of athlete's foot can begin with a minor irritation, dryness, itching, or scaly skin.
1 Jock itch is a fungal infection, or ringworm of the groin area. 2  The rash is red, itchy, scaly, and may blister. 3  Diaper rash is a yeast infection that affects babies because of the warm, moist environment in the diaper. 4  It is red, scaly, and may include bumps or blisters. 1 The rash is red, itchy, scaly, and may blister. 2  Diaper rash is a yeast infection that affects babies because of the warm, moist environment in the diaper. 3  It is red, scaly, and may include bumps or blisters. 4  Vaginal yeast infection is an infection that affects women and often occurs as a result of taking antibiotic
Tinea cruris, also known as crotch itch, crotch rot, Dhobi itch, eczema marginatum, gym itch, jock itch, jock rot, scrot rot and ringworm of the groin is a dermatophyte fungal infection of the groin region in any sex, though more often seen in males. 
Some of the most common causes of genital rashes are infections: 1  Jock itch is a fungal infection, or ringworm of the groin area. 2  The rash is red, itchy, scaly, and may blister. 3  Diaper rash is a yeast infection that affects babies because of the warm, moist environment in the diaper. 1 The rash is red, itchy, scaly, and may blister. 2  Diaper rash is a yeast infection that affects babies because of the warm, moist environment in the diaper. 3  It is red, scaly, and may include bumps or blisters. 4  Vaginal yeast infection is an infection that affects women and often occurs as a result of taking antibiotics
Atopic dermatitis. Atopic dermatitis, often called eczema, is a common disorder of childhood which produces red itchy, weeping rashes on the inner aspects of the elbows and in back of the knees as well as the cheeks, neck, wrists, and ankles. It is commonly found in patients who also have asthma and hay fever. 
This is owing to the likeness of the symptoms and also because there are so many similar types of fungal rashes – making the diagnosing of the kind of rash not always an easy task. Jock itch or “tinea cruris” is a type of ringworm but the label is distorted because it has zero to do with worms. Fungal Rash Symptoms. The symptoms of rashes caused by fungus depend on the area of the body which is infected as well as the types. These rashes should not be mixed up with other infections of the skin such as psoriasis or eczema. Some symptoms include: 1  Some are itchy.
Symptoms : Signs of fungal rash vary widely with the part of the body getting infected. Some of the common symptoms are itchy skin, formation of scaly patches on the skin, hair loss (if the skin rash is on the scalp), reddish scaly patches and painful itch. 