Confidence votes 2.7K. The Legislative Branch (Congress). Both Article I, Section 8 and Article III, Section 1 of the Constitution assigned authority for creating the federal courts to Congress, or the Legislative branch.
This allows Congress to establish Courts and tribunals that are part of the Judicial Branch (constitutional courts), as well as courts of limited jurisdiction that operate outside the Judicial Branch. Article III Courts.
If you're on A+ the answer is Article I  The Legislative Branch    Both Article I, Section 8 and Article III, Section 1 of the  Constitution assigned authority for cr … eating the federal courts to  Congress, or the Legislative branch.
Under the Tenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution, all powers not granted to the federal government are reserved for the states and the people. All state governments are modeled after the federal government and consist of three branches: executive, legislative, and judicial.
If you're on A+ the answer is Article I  The Legislative Branch    Both Article I, Section 8 and Article III, Section 1 of the  Constitution assigned authority for cr … eating the federal courts to  Congress, or the Legislative branch.
Nevermind the guy above me is right, but I believe he means the Judicial branch gave Congress that power. Source(s): Article Three of the United States Constitution establishes the judicial branch of the federal government. The judicial branch comprises the Supreme Court of the United States along with lower federal courts established pursuant to legislation by Congress. Wikipedia. Ghosted · 7 years ago.
Authority for establishing lower courts is vested in the Legislative Branch (Congress) under Articles I and III of the US Constitution.
The judicial branch comprises the Supreme Court of the United States along with lower federal courts established pursuant to legislation by Congress.
Article III, Section 1: The judicial power of the United States, shall be vested in one Supreme Court, and in such inferior courts as the Congress may from time to time ordain and establish.