A basic charger usually charges at around 2 amps-and so needs 24 hours to deliver the 48 amps needed to fully charge a flat, 48 amp hour battery. But there is a wide range of chargers with different charge rates on the market-from 2 to 10 amps. The higher the charge output, the faster a flat battery is recharged. Always check the. level before connecting the battery to the charger. Top up if necessary (See Checking the batteries) and clean the battery posts. If there is a power point handy, the battery can be left in the car, so long as the charge rate is only 3 or 4 amps.
If the battery light was not on when the car was running then it's not the alternator. If there's any white crud growing on the battery terminals this can insulate the battery connections and it may not recharge while driving the car or if you hook up a charger to it. Report Abuse. Depenind on what type charger you have Shops use commercial chargers Properly charging an automotive battery goes like this. Charge at a rate of 30 amps for 30 minute intervals and recheck. This can take up to 8 hours to fully recharge a battery.
Report Abuse. It depends all the type of battery and the power rating of the charger. Some charges will charge in less than an 1hr some can take up to several hours. Forget about charging a battery just jump start it if you have another car available and jumper cables your car will be charged in minutes not hours. Report Abuse. Depenind on what type charger you have Shops use commercial chargers Properly charging an automotive battery goes like this. Charge at a rate of 30 amps for 30 minute intervals and recheck. This can take up to 8 hours to fully recharge a battery.
Theoretically, a fully charged battery, without taking in current from the. , should work the. for about ten minutes, or the headlights for eight hours, and a heated rear window for 12 hours. As the battery nears full discharge, the lights gradually grow dimmer and finally go out altogether. Always check the. level before connecting the battery to the charger. Top up if necessary (See Checking the batteries) and clean the battery posts. If there is a power point handy, the battery can be left in the car, so long as the charge rate is only 3 or 4 amps.
It depends if you are using a trickle charger or a battery charger. Recommend following the instructions on the battery charger. Check on the battery every 1/2 hour. Try to start the car after an hour. Do not make too many attempts to turn the car over or you will end up charging the battery from scratch. Theres no way any of us can guess how long as long enough. Like I said, if its not a battery that is at the end of its usage life, then enough charge to get it to start is all that's needed. Then its best to go out on a highway for a few miles at at highway speed, to let the car's system recharge it.
The more discharged that a battery is, then the longer it will take to recharge it. Usually it takes several hours to effectively recharge a battery. If a battery is very discharged then it can take up to 12 hours or more to recharge it. While recharging a battery, if the battery becomes hot when you touch it then stop charging it. Slow charge: It is best to slow charge the battery. Slow charging rates vary depending on the battery's type and capacit
Fast charge: Repeated fast charges on a battery may overcharge a battery and reduce service life. Step 1: Determine how long to recharge a battery by calculating how much capacity your battery has. For example, an Interstate battery with the part number MT-34 has 120 minutes reserve capacity. If a battery is very discharged then it can take up to 12 hours or more to recharge it. While recharging a battery, if the battery becomes hot when you touch it then stop charging it. Slow charge: It is best to slow charge the battery.
RE: How long does a car battery charger take to fully charge a battery? My car broke down on me again and we’ve been charging the battery on an external charger for a couple of hours now so we can see if it was the battery or my alternator. Report Abuse. Depenind on what type charger you have Shops use commercial chargers Properly charging an automotive battery goes like this. Charge at a rate of 30 amps for 30 minute intervals and recheck. This can take up to 8 hours to fully recharge a battery.
How to charge a battery. An average car battery has a capacity of around 48 amp hours which means that, fully charged, it delivers 1 amp for 48 hours, 2 amps for 24 hours, 8 amps for 6 hours and so on. Always check the. level before connecting the battery to the charger. Top up if necessary (See Checking the batteries) and clean the battery posts. If there is a power point handy, the battery can be left in the car, so long as the charge rate is only 3 or 4 amps.
Times vary in regards to how long it takes to charge a car battery. If you jump start your car and charge the battery through the process of using your alternator, it will likely take an hour (at least) to fully charge your battery. When using a battery charger, you can vary the time by lowering the amperage. 