Calcium is the most abundant mineral in your body. It is essential for the development and maintenance of strong bones and teeth, where about 99% of the body's calcium is found. Calcium also helps the heart, nerves, muscles, and other body systems work properly.
Sources of calcium. Calcium needs to be obtained from the diet as it is not manufactured by the body. The main sources of calcium in the diet are milk, dairy products and other calcium-rich foods such as fish with edible bones (e.g sardines and anchovies), beans, tofu, spinach, watercress and broccoli. Some foods are also fortified with calcium such as milk, yogurt, breakfast cereals, rice, and even biscuits.
Calcium is perhaps the most essential nutrient when it comes to bone health. Building strong bones is like building a healthy balance in your “calcium bank account.” Bones are living tissue and constantly in a state of turnover, making calcium deposits and withdrawals daily. Bones don't come with a lifetime guarantee.
A blood calcium test is ordered to screen for, diagnose, and monitor a range of conditions relating to the bones, heart, nerves, kidneys, and teeth. The test may also be ordered if a person has symptoms of a parathyroid disorder, malabsorption, or an overactive thyroid.
In humans, calcium is the most abundant mineral and forms about 2% of our total body weight. Almost all of this calcium is found in the skeleton and the rest is found in the teeth, the blood plasma, the body’s soft tissues and the extracellular fluid.
Calcium is a chemical element which is essential for living organisms, including humans. Calcium's chemical symbol is Ca. It is found in many foods. We need to consume a certain amount of calcium to build and maintain strong bones and healthy communication between the brain and various parts of the body.
Milk and dairy products such as yogurt, cheeses, and buttermilk contain a form of calcium that your body can absorb easily. Whole milk (4% fat) is recommended for children ages 1 to 2. Adults and children over the age of 2 should drink low-fat (2% or 1%) or skim milk and other dairy products.