Oil of citronella is a naturally occurring insect and animal repellent distilled from two grass varieties. It is yellow to brown and has a grassy/floral smell. Oil of citronella is a mixture of many components. The exact composition varies by grass variety. However, the main components are citronellol, citronellal, and geraniol.
The word “citronella” describes both a tropical tree and a fragrant grass, as well as the oil that is extracted from the grass. Citronella oil is very popular around the world as an “all natural” mosquito and tick repellant, and a number of sprays, candles, and other products feature it prominently. Citronella is also a plant, a very nice plant actually, an ornamental grass that can be added to most any garden. It is cheaper and less potentially hazardous to dogs and smalls than the manufactured product.
Uses of Citronella Oil. Citronella oil is popularly used as an insect repellent. In fact, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) classifies it as a biopesticide with a non-toxic mode of action. Citronella oil can be found in dozens of registered pesticide products, such as sprays, lotions, and candles. 
Full Definition of CITRONELLA. : a lemon-scented grass (Cymbopogon nardus) of southern Asia that yields an oil used in perfumery and as an insect repellent; also: its oil. See citronella defined for English-language learners. See citronella defined for kids
The Facts. Citronella Grass or Nardus is a lemon-scented perennial. The plant's principle chemical components are geraniol, citronellal and citronellol. Oil distilled from this plant can also be used in perfume, biopesticides, disinfectants and culinary purposes. Considerations. While citronella oil is a good insect repellent or astringent, it can be dangerous or irritating when applied directly to the skin. Test a small patch of skin first to make sure there is not a bad reaction.
CITRONELLA OIL Overview Information. Citronella oil is made by steam distillation of certain species of grasses in the Cymbopogon grouping of plants. Ceylon or Lenabatu citronella oil is produced from Cymbopogon nardus, and Java or Maha Pengiri citronella oil is produced from Cymbopogon winterianus. Lemongrass (Cymbopogon citratus) also belongs to this grouping of plants, but it is not used to make citronella oil. Some people apply citronella oil directly to the skin to keep mosquitoes and other insects away. In foods and beverages, citronella oil is used as a flavoring. In manufacturing, citronella oil is used as a fragrance in cosmetics and soaps.
Citronella oil is a popular essential oil extracted from Cymbopogon Nardus, a certain type of lemon grass. The oil, taken out from the tall thin leaves of Cymbopogon through steam distillation, has a sweet and refreshing aroma with thin consistency. 
The United States Environmental Protection Agency considers oil of citronella as a biopesticide with a non-toxic mode of action. However, since citronella insect repellant effects were not proven within the EU, the use of citronella as an insecticide is prohibited under the Biocidal Product Directive 2006.
Shares & Saves. Save. Citronella oil is distilled from the stems and leaves of Citronella Grass (Cymbopogon nardus and Cymbopogon winterianus), which grows in warm climates. As an essential oil, it is used as an insect repellent, biopesticide, cooking ingredient, antiseptic and aromatherapy tool. Considerations. While citronella oil is a good insect repellent or astringent, it can be dangerous or irritating when applied directly to the skin. Test a small patch of skin first to make sure there is not a bad reaction.
Research also shows that citronella oil has strong antifungal properties, is effective in calming barking dogs, and has even been used as a successful spray-on deterrent against pets destroying household items. However, since citronella insect repellant effects were not proven within the EU, the use of citronella as an insecticide is prohibited under the Biocidal Product Directive 2006.