Chlorophyll, a green pigment found in chloroplasts, is an important part of the light-dependent reactions. Chlorophyll soaks up the energy from sunlight. It is also the reason why plants are green. show/hide words to know. 1  Chlorophyll: the pigment that gives plants their green color and allows them to absorb sunlight... 2  more. 3  Chloroplast: a part of a cell found in plants that converts light energy into energy plants can use (sugar). 4  Other living organisms such as algae also have cells that contain chloroplasts.
Chloroplasts are the organelles inside plant cells that capture light energy to make sugars. They are fascinating organelles that have their own DNA and make their own building blocks. About 10 percent of a chloroplast’s proteins are encoded by its own DNA. The rest come from the cell. 
Plant cells are remarkable in that they have two organelles specialized for energy production: chloroplasts, which create energy via photosynthesis, and mitochondria, which generate energy through respiration, a particularly important process when light is unavailable. On the average, the chloroplast density on the surface of a leaf is about one-half million per square millimeter. Chloroplasts are one of several different types of plastids, plant cell organelles that are involved in energy storage and the synthesis of metabolic materials.
Being green. Chlorophyll, a green pigment found in chloroplasts, is an important part of the light-dependent reactions. Chlorophyll soaks up the energy from sunlight. It is also the reason why plants are green. You may remember that colors are different wavelengths of light. show/hide words to know. 1  Chlorophyll: the pigment that gives plants their green color and allows them to absorb sunlight... 2  more. 3  Chloroplast: a part of a cell found in plants that converts light energy into energy plants can use (sugar). 4  Other living organisms such as algae also have cells that contain chloroplasts.
Chloroplasts are organelles present in plant cells and some eukaryotic organisms. Chloroplasts are the most important plastids found in plant cells. It is the structure in a green plant cell in which photosynthesis occurs. Chloroplast is one of the three types of plastids. The chloro plasts take part in the process of photosynthesis and it is of great biological importance. Animal cells do not have chloroplast
The chloroplast are double membrane bound organelles and are the site of photosynthesis The chloroplasts have a system of three membranes: the outer membrane, the inner membrane and the thylakoid system. The outer and the inner membrane of the chloroplast enclose a semi-gel-like fluid known as the stroma. It is the structure in a green plant cell in which photosynthesis occurs. Chloroplast is one of the three types of plastids. The chloro plasts take part in the process of photosynthesis and it is of great biological importance.
1 Chloroplast: a part of a cell found in plants that converts light energy into energy plants can use (sugar). 2  Other living organisms such as algae also have cells that contain chloroplasts. 3  Thylakoid: the disk-shaped parts of a plant cell where light-dependent reactions occur... show/hide words to know. 1  Chlorophyll: the pigment that gives plants their green color and allows them to absorb sunlight... 2  more. 3  Chloroplast: a part of a cell found in plants that converts light energy into energy plants can use (sugar). 4
In summary, the chloroplast is an important plant cell structure and the site of photosynthesis, which converts energy from sunlight into food. The chloroplast contains chlorophyll within its thylakoids, which absorbs light energy and gives chloroplasts its green color. The thylakoids are surrounded by the stroma, or the inner liquid portion of the chloroplast. Both the stroma and the thylakoids contain important molecules for photosynthesis. Thylakoids are often stacked on top of each other-they look like a stack of flapjacks.
Chloroplasts One of the most widely recognized and important characteristics of plants is their ability to conduct photosynthesis, in effect, to make their own food by converting light energy into chemical energy. This process occurs in almost all plant species and is carried out in specialized organelles known as chloroplasts. On the average, the chloroplast density on the surface of a leaf is about one-half million per square millimeter. Chloroplasts are one of several different types of plastids, plant cell organelles that are involved in energy storage and the synthesis of metabolic materials.
1 Chlorophyll: the pigment that gives plants their green color and allows them to absorb sunlight... 2  more. 3  Chloroplast: a part of a cell found in plants that converts light energy into energy plants can use (sugar). 4  Other living organisms such as algae also have cells that contain chloroplasts. show/hide words to know. 1 