Carbohydrates are an essential nutrient for your body. During digestion, they break down into glucose, or blood sugar, which is the primary source of fuel for all cells. Nearly all of the foods you eat contain carbohydrates. Meat, eggs and some types of seafood are the only foods that do not have carbs. Fruits and fruit juices also provide a high portion of carbohydrates. You get around 15 grams of carbs from a serving of fruit. One serving includes a small 4-ounce apple, four whole apricots, 12 fresh cherries, 1 1/4 cup of whole strawberries, two small plums or 1 cup of fresh raspberries.
Low-carb diets. Low-carbohydrate (low-carb) diets usually involve cutting out most starchy foods. These diets tend to be high in fat, and eating a high-fat diet (especially saturated fat from foods such as meat, cheese and butter) could increase your risk of heart disease. Starchy foods such as potatoes, bread, cereals, rice and pasta should make up about a third of the food you eat, as shown by the eatwell plate. Where you can, choose wholegrain varieties, or eat potatoes with their skins on for more fibre. Starch is the most common form of carbohydrate in our diet.
1 Sugar is the simplest form of carbohydrates. 2  Sugar occurs naturally in some foods, including fruits, vegetables, milk and milk products. 3  Sugars include fruit sugar (fructose), table sugar (sucrose) and milk sugar (lactose). There are three main types of carbohydrates: 1  Sugar. 2  Sugar is the simplest form of carbohydrates. 3  Sugar occurs naturally in some foods, including fruits, vegetables, milk and milk products. 4  Sugars include fruit sugar (fructose), table sugar (sucrose) and milk sugar (lactose). 5  Starch.
Starch. Foods high in starch include: 1  Starchy vegetables like peas, corn, lima beans and potatoes. 2  Dried beans, lentils and peas such as pinto beans, kidney beans, black eyed peas and split peas. 3  Grains like oats, barley and rice. ( 4 The majority of grain products in the US are made from wheat flour. 
Grains. Grains are an important source of carbohydrates, as they contain healthy fiber. Whole grains have undergone little processing, making these grains a low-glycemic food. According to the Harvard School of Public Health, carbohydrates with a low-glycemic index can help control blood sugar. 
Foods containing simple carbohydrates include sugary fluids like soda or energy drinks, deserts, syrups, and processed foods. Complex carbohydrates include two types of foods: dietary fibers and starches. Foods with dietary fiber include nuts seed, fruits, beans, oatmeal, barley, bran, and vegetables. Starches include potatoes, beans, peas, corn, and some breads, cereals, and grains. The following foods have carbohydrates: 1  bread, bagels, muffins, crackers, tortillas, and crust. 2  cereal. 3  pasta, noodles, and rice. 4  starchy vegetables such as corn, peas, potatoes, and sweet potatoes.
Carbohydrates provide your body with glucose it needs to function properly. Two types of carbohydrates exist: complex carbohydrates and simple carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrates take time to break down into glucose. Foods rich in complex carbohydrates and fiber are called good carbohydrates. Simple carbohydrates include sugars found in foods such as fruits and milk products and sugars added during food processing. Foods rich in white flour and added sugars are called bad
Complex carbohydrates, often referred to as starchy foods, include: 1  Legumes, such as beans, peas, lentils and peanuts. 2  Starchy vegetables, such as potatoes, corn, green peas, and parsnips. 3  Whole-grain breads and cereals. 