The level of competence required for registration as a Chartered Engineer in the U.K. is comparable to many continental European countries that require masters-level education for registration as a professional Engineer. According to the Engineering Council, Chartered Engineers are characterised by their ability to develop appropriate solutions to engineering problems, using new or existing technologies, through innovation, creativity and change.
More qualifications for civil engineers. From becoming a chartered manager (CMgr), to gaining legal qualifications, we provide and support a number of additional qualifications to help you continue your professional development. Becoming an incorporated or chartered engineer is a great achievement, but you don't have to stop there. Chartered manager for IEng and CEng members. If you're an ICE member and either a chartered engineer (CEng) or incorporated engineer (IEng), with five years or more management experience, you can use the CMI's qualified route.
How I can become a chartered Engineer a I have filled the form and sent a D. D. of Rs. 5000.00 in Feb. 2014 but unable to get the certificate as well as response from Institute, Er. Sandeep Kr. Shrivastava Rewa M P. 
Chartered Engineers (CEng) develop solutions to engineering problems using new or existing technologies, through innovation, creativity and change and/or they may have technical accountability for complex systems with significant levels of risk. 
The committee will decide whether you are approved for the Chartered Engineer Status and notify you of the outcome. If you qualify, the committee will automatically register you as a Chartered Engineer with the Engineering Council. Complete at least four years of practical training in the industry. The training institute or company where you complete your practical training must appoint a mentor (preferably a Chartered Engineer) to monitor your training program.
The title Chartered Engineer is protected by civil law and is a terminal qualification in engineering. The Engineering Council regulates professional engineering titles in the UK. With more than 180,000 registrants from many countries, designation as a Chartered Engineer is one of the most recognisable international engineering qualifications. According to the Engineering Council, Chartered Engineers are characterised by their ability to develop appropriate solutions to engineering problems, using new or existing technologies, through innovation, creativity and change.
The benefits of professional registration as an Engineering Technician (EngTech), Incorporated Engineer (IEng), Chartered Engineer (CEng) or Information and Communications Technology Technician (ICT Tech), include: Higher earning potential −. The Engineering Council’s 2013 survey of professionally registered engineers and technicians indicated that those holding the titles EngTech, IEng, CEng or ICT Tech continued to enjoy pay increases above the national average throughout the recession.
1 You gain national and international recognition through holding the registered title, Chartered Engineer. 2  You will be eligible for inclusion in the International Register of Professional Engineers. 3  You enhance your engineering career potential and prospects. 