Polish is the most widely used minority language in Lithuania's Vilnius (Wilno) County (26% of the population, according to the 2001 census results, with Wilno (Vilnius) having been part of Poland until 1939) and is found elsewhere in southeastern Lithuania. In history, Polish is known to be an important language, both diplomatically and academically in Central and Eastern Europe. Today, Polish is spoken by over 38.5 million people as their first language in Poland. It is also spoken as a second language in western parts of Belarus, Lithuania and Ukraine, as well as northern parts of the Czech Republic and Slovak
Polish is defined as to rub until smooth and shiny, use a substance or wax on a surface to make it glossy, or to improve the condition. 1  An example of polish is buffing fingernails until smooth. 2  An example of polish is using wax on a car's paint to make it shiny. 3  An example of polish is fine tuning your Photoshop skills. 1 to smooth and brighten, as by rubbing. 2  to coat with polish, wax, etc. and make bright or glossy. 3  to improve or refine (someone or someone's manners, appearance, etc.) as by removing crudeness or vulgarity. 4  to complete or embellish (a piece of writing, etc.); finish; perfect.
1 Apply a nickel size amount of polish on the towel or pad. 2  Using a circular motion to spread the product out then use a back and forth motion, left to right, up an down, diagonal to work the product in until the polish is breaks down or turns clear. 3  Wipe off residue and check your work under proper lighting. 
Admittedly the Polish language is one of the more difficult languages to learn, what with its tongue-bending pronunciation, complex gender system, seven cases, aspect as a grammatical category of the verb and a tendency to avoid internationalisms for real Polish words. The meaning of the word is easy enough to guess-solidarity. Other Polish words in the English language point to the delicious Polish cuisine. Perhaps you've tried a kabanos or two, Poland's famous smoked sausages, bigos, hunter's stew, or pierogi, small filled dumplings.
Polish is in the form of a liquid and contains abrasive content. Polish is mildly abrasive and, if you take a car polish, polishing is good to remove dirt from the surface of your car. It also restores shine of the paint on your car. 
Polish is the official language of Poland, but it is also used throughout the world by Polish minorities in other countries. It is one of the official languages of the European Union. Its written standard is the Polish alphabet, which has 9 additions to the letters of the basic Latin script (ą, ć, ę, ł, ń, o, ó, ś, ź). ż In history, Polish is known to be an important language, both diplomatically and academically in Central and Eastern Europe. Today, Polish is spoken by over 38.5 million people as their first language in Poland. It is also spoken as a second language in western parts of Belarus, Lithuania and Ukraine, as well as northern parts of the Czech Republic and Slovakia.
Nail polish (also known as nail varnish) is a lacquer that can be applied to the human fingernails or toenails to decorate and protect the nail plates. The formulation has been revised repeatedly to enhance its decorative effects and to suppress cracking or flaking. 
), officially the Republic of Poland (Polish: Rzeczpospolita Polska, listen (help·info)), is a country in Central Europe, bordered by Germany to the west; the Czech Republic and Slovakia to the south; Ukraine and Belarus to the east; and the Baltic Sea, Kaliningrad Oblast (a Russian exclave) and Lithuania to the north. With a population of over 38.5 million people, Poland is the 34th most populous country in the world, the sixth most populous member of the European Union, and the most populous post-communist member of the European Union.
Polish is the official language of Poland, which has a population of 39 million people. There are big Polish-speaking communities in Argentina, Australia, Belarus, Brazil, Canada, Germany, Lithuania, the UK, the Ukraine, the US and Russia (among many other countries). 2. The meaning of the word is easy enough to guess-solidarity. Other Polish words in the English language point to the delicious Polish cuisine. Perhaps you've tried a kabanos or two, Poland's famous smoked sausages, bigos, hunter's stew, or pierogi, small filled dumplings.