The Hippocampus and Memory. The hippocampus plays a very important role in our memories. The hippocampus attaches memories to the emotions and senses that went with them. For instance, it will take a memory of being happy and calm while in a field and link it with the smell of the flowers. The limbic system is the area in the brain that is associated with memory, emotions, and motivation. The limbic system is located just above the brain stem and below the cortex. The hippocampus itself is highly involved with
Humans and other mammals have two hippocampi, one in each side of the brain. It belongs to the limbic system and plays important roles in the consolidation of information from short-term memory to long-term memory and spatial navigation. The hippocampus is located under the cerebral cortex; and in primates it is located in the medial temporal lobe, underneath the cortical surface. Today, the structure is called the hippocampus rather than hippocampus major, with pes hippocampi often being regarded as synonymous with De Garengeot's cornu Ammonis, a term that survives in the names of the four main histological divisions of the hippocampus: CA1, CA2, CA3, and CA4.
In Alzheimer's disease, the hippocampus is one of the first regions of the brain to suffer damage; memory loss and disorientation are included among the early symptoms. Damage to the hippocampus can also result from oxygen starvation (hypoxia), encephalitis, or medial temporal lobe epilepsy. Today, the structure is called the hippocampus rather than hippocampus major, with pes hippocampi often being regarded as synonymous with De Garengeot's cornu Ammonis, a term that survives in the names of the four main histological divisions of the hippocampus: CA1, CA2, CA3, and CA4.
Definition of HIPPOCAMPUS. : a curved elongated ridge that extends over the floor of the descending horn of each lateral ventricle of the brain, that consists of gray matter covered on the ventricular surface with white matter, and that is involved in forming, storing, and processing memory. — hip·po·cam·pal \-pəl\ adjective. ADVERTISEMENT
Hippocampus-the portion of the cerebral hemisphers in basal medial part of the temporal lobe. This part of the brain is important for learning and memory. . . for converting short term memory to more permanent memory, and for recalling spatial relationships in the world about us. 
: a curved elongated ridge that is an important part of the limbic system, extends over the floor of the descending horn of each lateral ventricle of the brain, consists of gray matter covered on the ventricular surface with white matter, and is involved in forming, storing, and processing memory—see pes hippocampi. : a curved elongated ridge that extends over the floor of the descending horn of each lateral ventricle of the brain, that consists of gray matter covered on the ventricular surface with white matter, and that is involved in forming, storing, and processing memory. — hip·po·cam·pal \-pəl\ adjective.
The Hippocampus. The hippocampus is a part of the limbic system. The limbic system is the area in the brain that is associated with memory, emotions, and motivation. The limbic system is located just above the brain stem and below the cortex. The hippocampus itself is highly involved with our memories.
In monkeys, apes, and humans, the hippocampus is confined to the temporal lobe by the massive development of the corpus callosum. Cytoarchitecturally a unique form of allocortex (archicortex), the hippocampus forms part of the limbic system (formerly rhinencephalon). The hippocampus forms part of the limbic system. Its major afferent connections are with the entorhinal area of the parahippocampal gyrus, and transparent septum; by way of the fornix it projects to the septum, anterior nucleus of the thalamus, and mammillary body.
The hippocampus, Latin for seahorse, is named for its shape. It is part of a system that directs many bodily functions: the limbic system. This system is located in the brain's medial temporal lobe, near the center of the brain. The hippocampus is involved in the storage of long-term memory, which includes all past knowledge and experiences. In particular, the hippocampus seems to play a major role in declarative memory, the type of memory involving things that can be purposely recalled, such as facts or events. The hippocampus is not involved with short-term memory and procedural memory types (memory of how to do motor actions, like walking).
The hippocampus is part of the mammalian brain, and belongs to the limbic system. Humans and other mammals have two, one in each side of the brain. The hippocampus is under the cerebral cortex. It is important in spacial memory and navigation, and helps turn short-term memory into long-term memory. The hippocampus is named after the seahorse because its shape is similar.