Close. The fluid-mosaic-model of the cell membrane. Like a mosaic, the cell membrane is a complex structure made up of many different parts, such as proteins, phospholipids, and cholesterol. The relative amounts of these components vary from membrane to membrane, and the types of lipids in membranes can also vary
The fluid part refers to the phospholipids of a cell  membrane, which, like liquid, flow. The … mosaic part refers to  proteins embedded in the phospholipid bilayer that act as conduits  through which molecules enter and exit the cell. Type your answer here... The cell membrane which is the plasma membrane is called the fluid mosaic model because :the plasma membrane consists of both lipids and proteins. T … he fundamental structure of the membrane is the phospholipid bilayer, which forms a stable barrier between two aqueous compartments
Type your answer here... The cell membrane which is the plasma membrane is called the fluid mosaic model because :the plasma membrane consists of both lipids and proteins. T … he fundamental structure of the membrane is the phospholipid bilayer, which forms a stable barrier between two aqueous compartments. This membrane is called the fluid mosaic (more than one thing) model as it is a mixture of phospholipids, cholesterol, proteins and carbohydrates. The proteins sort of float o … n the surface of the membrane like islands in the sea. Cholesterol is also found in the membrane
Report Abuse. The term fluid mosaic model refers to the theory that describes a plasma membrane. Think about what the words mean. Fluid: it is not a solid or a gas. Mosaic: It is made up of tiny different pieces. You could think of it behaving like a pool with a layer of ping pong balls floating on it. sideways swapping occurs very frequently, while swapping between the two layers is less frequent mosaic refers to the collage of intrinsic proteins that stud the membrane. the diversity of protein channels and carriers, together with their unique marker capabilities by association with glycocalyx, makes it mosaic like.
Report Abuse. The plasma membrane is lipid bi-layer. It contain proteins just like the mosaic in a fluid This is why the selectively preamble membrane is called the-FLUID MOSAIC MODEL. It was discovered by S. Jonathan singer and Garth Nicolson in 1972.
The fluid mosaic model explains various observations regarding the structure of functional cell membranes. The model, which was devised by SJ Singer and GL Nicolson in 1972, describes the cell membrane as a two-dimensional liquid in which phospholipid and protein molecules diffuse easily. 
The fluid mosaic model is a model of membrane structure; according to this model, membranes are composed of a double layer of phospholipids in which various proteins are … embedded. The phospholipid bilayer is a somewhat fluid matrix that allows the movement of proteins within it. Type your answer here... The cell membrane which is the plasma membrane is called the fluid mosaic model because :the plasma membrane consists of both lipids and proteins. T … he fundamental structure of the membrane is the phospholipid bilayer, which forms a stable barrier between two aqueous compartments