Generally, the total cost for an average home will average around $6,000 to $14,000 depending upon the time that the work is done. Additionally, some homeowners opt simply to install the electric mat style of radiant floor heating in smaller spaces such as bathrooms in order to reduce project costs. The average bathroom installation using an electric mat instead of PEX tubing and hydronics is only $700, including labor. A well designed radiant system... will normally cost less than $3 per square foot, and less than $2 for a slab on grade .. Interestingly enough, the site also explains that the larger the home the lower the cost of the equipment, and gives a quote for a five thousand square foot installation at $2 per square foot.
1 This Old House estimates the cost of electric radiant heat in an average-size bathroom at $400-$700 (including new tile) for a thin electric mat installed in thinset cement and controlled by a timer-thermostat, and says it is not a difficult do-it-yourself job for those who know how to set floor tiles. 1 If concrete is added to an existing floor when installing hot water radiant heat, it might be necessary to reinforce the floor supports. 2  The additional cost will depend on the amount of additional support needed, but if this is required be sure it's included in all cost estimates.
Typical costs: 1  Expect to pay about $6-$16 a square foot for a professionally installed hydronic (hot water) radiant floor heating system, or $9,000-$22,500 or more for a 1,500 square foot home, depending on local rates, the number of temperature zones and the overall size of the system. 1 If concrete is added to an existing floor when installing hot water radiant heat, it might be necessary to reinforce the floor supports. 2  The additional cost will depend on the amount of additional support needed, but if this is required be sure it's included in all cost estimates.
1 Electric radiant heat, on the other hand, is often more cost-effective for heating small areas, depending on the utility costs in your area. 2  According to WarmlyYours, an electric system for an average-size bathroom costs anywhere from $400 to $700 to install (for an electric mat installed in thin-set cement). 
1 Expect to pay about $6-$16 a square foot for a professionally installed hydronic (hot water) radiant floor heating system, or $9,000-$22,500 or more for a 1,500 square foot home, depending on local rates, the number of temperature zones and the overall size of the system. 1 If concrete is added to an existing floor when installing hot water radiant heat, it might be necessary to reinforce the floor supports. 2  The additional cost will depend on the amount of additional support needed, but if this is required be sure it's included in all cost estimates.
In reality, prices for tile floor heating have grown increasingly affordable over the course of the past decade or so, making the cost from $5 to $8 per square foot. The average reported cost to install bathroom floor heating for 100 square feet is $600. The minimum average cost reported for installing bathroom floor heating for 100 square feet is $475. The maximum reported cost for installing bathroom floor heating for 100 square feet is $725.
The Costs. The average reported cost to install bathroom floor heating for 100 square feet is $600. The minimum average cost reported for installing bathroom floor heating for 100 square feet is $475. The maximum reported cost for installing bathroom floor heating for 100 square feet is $725.
Because of this easy installation—and the lower cost of materials—an electric system is usually the best choice for small-scale projects like heating a kitchen floor or warming up a cold bathroom. Adding electric heat to a typical bathroom when you install a new floor adds only $200 to $300 to the cost of the project. Operating costs are typically about a half cent per square foot per day. Often the biggest challenge is “fishing” electrical cable through finished walls to the thermostat and cable. If you want to heat 200 sq. ft. or more of floor, a hydronic system may cost less to install than electric heat. The heat source for a hydronic system can be a boiler or a standard water heater.
Cons: According to Warmly Yours, to install an electric radiant floor heating system in a 10 ft. by 8 ft. (80 total feet) room will cost roughly $861. This price includes Warmly Yours TempZone mat, programmable thermostat, a splicing kit, and shipping and handling. 
In addition to paying for materials, the total cost of a bathroom floor heating project can vary depending on whether the installation company includes labor as part of the estimate or not. If not, homeowners should expect to spend between an additional $200 and $400 in these costs alone. The minimum average cost reported for installing bathroom floor heating for 100 square feet is $475. The maximum reported cost for installing bathroom floor heating for 100 square feet is $725.