In Australia, free range and organic chicken accounts for about 16.6% of value in the poultry market. This percentage is expected to grow to up to 25% in the next 5 years. 
At approximately 5-7 weeks of age, chickens have reached the 'target' weight for slaughter. Before catching the chickens to be transportation for slaughter, food is withdrawn for 8-12 hours and water for 1 hour. Catchers walk through the sheds at night grabbing birds by one leg and carrying them in bunches (up to five each hand) to crates. They are then bundled into the crates and stacked onto a truck.
Chickens are very fast growing and sexually mature by the age of 6 months. Most chickens are slaughtered for consumption at between 30 days and 6 months of age. The chickens are usually between 4 and 5 pounds by this age and marketed as a Fryer or Broiler. This is when the meat is the most tender. 
*criteria for birds to be called free range. birds must have access to the range for a minimum of 8 hours per day once they are reasonably feathered. when fully feathered (around 5-6 weeks old) birds must have easy access to an outdoor range during daylight hours. Comparison table for conventional, free range and organic meat chickens. You will notice in this chart, that although free range and organic chicken must have access to the outdoors, they are still slaughtered when they are just 1-3 months old even though they would naturally live until they were about 7 years old.
I have searched the forums, but could not find an answer. My chickens are 10 weeks old-they are getting so big! They have been in their coop and attached run since they were 5 weeks old. I want to let them out of their run (when we are home and watchful). Hi, 
Chickens will naturally live for 6 or more years, but broiler chickens typically take less than 6 weeks to reach slaughter size. A free range or organic meat chicken will usually be slaughtered at about 14 weeks of age. The chicken (Gallus gallus domesticus) is a domesticated fowl, a subspecies of the red junglefowl. As one of the most common and widespread domestic animals, with a population of more than 24 billion in 2003, there are more chickens in the world than any other species of bird.
“Free range” is a meaningless term in this sense, since almost all chickens raised for meat are uncaged. 5. Heart failure afflicts chickens at a rate of at least 4.7% and is attributed to genetic manipulation, but this figure only covers birds within their first 42 days of life. Industry Facts About Chickens Raised for Meat. 1. 51.4 billion chickens are artificially hatched, fattened up and slaughtered as 42-day-old babies every year globally. A chicken’s normal lifespan is 10–15 years. (1).
Broiler Chickens Fact Sheet. Every year in Australia alone, over half a billion chickens are raised and slaughtered for meat. Only around 15% of chickens are raised 'free range' in Australia (and about half of that is also 'organic'). *Australian Chicken Meat Federation estimate for 2010/11. Before catching the chickens to be transportation for slaughter, food is withdrawn for 8-12 hours and water for 1 hour. Catchers walk through the sheds at night grabbing birds by one leg and carrying them in bunches (up to five each hand) to crates. They are then bundled into the crates and stacked onto a truck.
There is a bigger price hike in free-range for chicken meat than for eggs. At Sainsbury's, breast fillets-the most commonly bought chicken-vary from £6.95 per kg for Basics fillet portions, to £12.99 for standard, to £14.95 for free-range, to £19 for organic free-range. Free-range accounts for 5% and organic 1% of UK chicken production, according to the British Poultry Council. The remaining 94% comes from intensively reared birds. This is in stark contrast to eggs, where free-range and organic together make up 45% of UK production.