Although a pescetarian diet has many health benefits, the AHA cautions that people who eat a large amount of seafood should always choose low-mercury seafood like canned light tuna, cod, clams, salmon and catfish over high-mercury fish. If you're a pescetarian woman who's pregnant, trying to become pregnant or nursing, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration says that you should avoid high-mercury fish and limit yourself to 12 ounces of low-mercury fish per week. Mercury may damage the neurological development of young children and unborn babies.
DefinitionA pescetarian diet excludes land animals and birds, but includes fish, mollusks, and crustaceans in addition to fruits, vegetables, plants, legumes, nuts, and grains. Eggs and dairy may or may not be present in the pescetarian's diet. 
Read on for a simple definition. Definition: Pescatarian (sometimes spelled pescetarian with an e) is a word sometimes used to describe those who abstain from eating all meat and animal flesh with the exception of fish. In other words, a pescatarian maintains a vegetarian diet with the addition of fish and other sea foods such as shrimp and lobster. Although the word is not commonly used and a pescatarian is not technically a vegetarian, more and more people are adopting this kind of diet, usually for health reasons or as a stepping stone to a fully vegetarian diet.
You may be wondering, What is a pescetarian?. Pescetarianism, or pesco-vegetarianism, means being vegetarian while still including seafood in your diet. One still cuts out red meat, pork, poultry, etc. from his or her diet like a vegetarian, but does not cut out fish and other seafood. Becoming a pescetarian was one of the most important and life-changing decisions that I've ever made -- and I made it at age 14. I have not eaten meat since then except for fish, and I don't plan to for the rest of my life.
A pescetarian (or pescatarian) is someone who eats seafood as their only source of meat. They may or may not eat dairy products; however, they do not eat poultry, beef, or any other meat. Some refer to a pescetarian as a vegetarian who eats seafood. Someone whose diet is composed primarily of fish would be a piscivore. 
So I put together a list of the top five reasons why I believe you should go pescetarian. All I ask of you today is to try the 30 Day Challenge. All you do is take a pledge to cut out meat, excluding fish and seafood, from your diet for the next 30 days. Becoming a pescetarian was one of the most important and life-changing decisions that I've ever made -- and I made it at age 14. I have not eaten meat since then except for fish, and I don't plan to for the rest of my life.
While some people may choose a pescetarian diet over vegetarian to maximize their intake of the omega-3 fatty acids found in oily fish, such as salmon, trout, sardines, and mackerel, there are many freshwater and saltwater fish varieties available. The pescetarian diet is similar to the traditional Mediterranean diet: plant-based, with fish serving as the primary animal protein, says Sharon Palmer, RDN, nutrition editor of Today's Dietitian and author of Plant-Powered for Life.
Simply put, a pescetarian, or pescovegetarian, is a person who does not eat mammals or birds but will eat fish, mollusks, and crustaceans. While some purists maintain one cannot accurately be called a vegetarian while eating any sort of flesh, there are several advantages to limiting animal consumption to fish. 
Overview. By definition, a pescatarian (or pescetarian) is a person who eats seafood but not other types of meat. Pescatarians are similar to vegetarians, but the difference is that pescatarians eat fish and shellfish in addition to an otherwise vegetarian diet. Pescatarians do not eat land animals or birds, including chicken, beef, pork and other types of poultry. They do, however, eat seafood, including fish such as salmon, tuna, trout, whitefish, sardines and even fish roe, also known as fish eggs or caviar.