Saliva testing is not helpful, however, to monitor women who are taking hormones in a sublingual (drops or spray) or tansmucosal (lozenge or troche) format. These forms of hormone delivery concentrate the hormones in the salivary glands and the resulting saliva levels are too high to be useful. Over years of clinical practice, it has been shown that saliva testing is the most accurate measurement of the body’s availability of the hormones Cortisol, DHEA, Estrogen, Progesterone, and Testosterone.
Free cortisol is secreted into the urine and is present in the saliva. This test measures the amount of cortisol in the blood, urine, or saliva. The level of cortisol in the blood (as well as the urine and saliva) normally rises and falls in a diurnal variation pattern. It peaks early in the morning, then declines throughout the day, reaching its lowest level about midnight. A saliva test requires special care in obtaining the sample. You may be instructed to refrain from eating, drinking, or brushing your teeth for a period of time (may be some time between 15 to 30 minutes) prior to the test.
Evaluating the oral environment should include the assessment of both stimulated and unstimulated saliva pH, consistency of saliva, the quantity or flow production, and the buffering capacity of saliva. Pathogen specific tests require saliva sample collection and incubation for 48 hours before results can be assessed. Saliva is the body's natural defense for the oral cavity. Saliva plays a key role in lubrication and remineralization and demineralization stages throughout the day. Composition of saliva, its buffering capacity, and the antimicrobial properties can be factors in the relationship to caries.
The flow rate is the most familiar saliva dysfunction to the dental professional. Resting saliva arises 60 percent from submandibular glands, 5 percent from sublingual glands, 20 percent from parotid glands, and 15 percent from the minor salivary glands. Saliva is the body's natural defense for the oral cavity. Saliva plays a key role in lubrication and remineralization and demineralization stages throughout the day. Composition of saliva, its buffering capacity, and the antimicrobial properties can be factors in the relationship to caries.
3. The pH of your saliva and urine after you eat or drink gives you an indication of your alkaline mineral reserves and your body's ability to deal with the acid residues created from the digestion of that food or drink. It is normal for your pH number to increase after you eat or drink not stay static or decrease. The more acidic the food that is eaten, the more rapid the response of the alkaline reserve, and the higher the saliva pH should be following a meal. 4. The pH of the saliva and urine between meals should be kept in the basic range, pH 7.2 or higher.
Saliva testing is much more specific and correctly identifies the level of hormones at the cellular level, in contrast to a serum (blood) test, which measures the level of hormones circulating in the bloodstream. Over years of clinical practice, it has been shown that saliva testing is the most accurate measurement of the body’s availability of the hormones Cortisol, DHEA, Estrogen, Progesterone, and Testosterone.
Taking a Saliva Hormone Test will assist you in assessing important steroid hormones which could be the cause of many of your symptoms. The three main hormones for all men and women to test are Estradiol-E2, Progesterone-Pg and Testosterone-T.Estradiol: We always encourage the testing of estradiol-E2 estrogen. 
3. Next, test your second morning urine before eating any food. This number should be the pH of your second urine after you have eliminated the acid load from the day before. The acids should be gone the second time you go to the bathroom so your urine pH should be ideally 7.2 or higher. The more acidic the food that is eaten, the more rapid the response of the alkaline reserve, and the higher the saliva pH should be following a meal. 4. The pH of the saliva and urine between meals should be kept in the basic range, pH
The pH should always be between 7.2 to 8.4, right after meals and between 6.8 to 7.2 a couple of hours after meals. The five tests above show the following: 1. The efficiency of the digestive system to deal with what you ate the night before, i.e., the first and second AM urine and saliva pH. The more acidic the food that is eaten, the more rapid the response of the alkaline reserve, and the higher the saliva pH should be following a meal. 4. The pH of the saliva and urine between meals should be kept in the basic range, pH 7.2 or higher.
Typically, blood will be drawn from a vein in the arm, but sometimes urine or saliva may be tested. Cortisol blood tests may be drawn at about 8 am, when cortisol should be at its peak, and again at about 4 pm, when the level should have dropped significantly. A saliva test requires special care in obtaining the sample. You may be instructed to refrain from eating, drinking, or brushing your teeth for a period of time (may be some time between 15 to 30 minutes) prior to the test.