Nitrofurantoin is a prescription medication used to treat urinary tract infections. Nitrofurantoin belongs to a group of drugs called nitrofuran antibiotics. These agents work by stopping the growth of bacteria. This medication comes as a capsule and a liquid. 
Nitrofurantoin belongs to the class of medications called antibiotics. It is used to treat urinary tract infections or bladder infections caused by certain types of bacteria. It helps to eliminate the symptoms of urinary tract infections such as burning, pain, frequent urination, and a constant urge to urinate.
Nitrofurantoin: Macrobid vs. Macrodantin. Nitrofurantoin is a nitrofuran antibacterial agent used to treat urinary tract infections (UTIs) caused by many gram-negative and some gram-positive bacteria. This medication may be used in certain patients for the prophylaxis of recurrent UTI as well. Nitrofurantoin is available in 2 different formulations: 
6 Reviews. 6 Reviews. Macrobid is the brand name for nitrofurantoin, an antibiotic used to treat or prevent urinary tract infections. Macrobid works by killing the bacteria that cause the infection or by preventing the bacteria from growing. The recommended dose of Macrobid is different depending on whether it is being used to treat a urinary tract infection or prevent one. In general, here are the ranges of oral doses given: 1  50 to 100 milligrams (mg) at bedtime for adults and teens to preven
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Nitrofurantoin is an antibiotic that is used for treating urinary tract infections caused by several types of bacteria. It is effective against E. Coli, Enterobacter cystitis, Enterococcus, Klebsiella, and S taphylococcus aureus. Nitrofurantoin interferes with the production of bacterial proteins, DNA, and cell walls. Bacteria cannot survive without a cell wall or multiply without DNA.
DESCRIPTION: Nitrofurantoin is an antibacterial agent specific for urinary tract infections. The Macrobid 速 brand of nitrofurantoin is a hard gelatin capsule shell containing the equivalent of 100 mg of nitrofurantoin in the form of 25 mg of nitrofurantoin macrocrystals and 75 mg of nitrofurantoin monohydrate. Macrobid 速(nitrofurantoin monohydrate/macrocrystals) Capsules To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Macrobid and other antibacterial drugs, Macrobid should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria.
Nitrofurantoin, sold under the trade name Macrobid among others, is an antibiotic used to treat bladder infections. It is not effective for kidney infections. It is taken by mouth. Common side effects include nausea, loss of appetite, diarrhea, and headaches. The most common side effects with nitrofurantoin are nausea, headache, and flatulence. Less common adverse events (occurring in less than 1% of those taking the drug) include: 1  Gastrointestinal: diarrhea, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, constipation, emesis. 2  Neurologic: dizziness, drowsiness, amblyopia.
Nitrofurantoin comes as a capsule and a liquid to take by mouth. Nitrofurantoin usually is taken two or four times a day for at least 7 days. . Take it with a full glass of water and with meals. Try to take nitrofurantoin at the same times every day.
Medical uses [edit]. Nitrofurantoin has been available for the treatment of urinary tract infections (UTIs) since 1953. Its current uses include the treatment of uncomplicated UTIs and prophylaxis against UTIs in people prone to recurrent UTIs. The most common side effects with nitrofurantoin are nausea, headache, and flatulence. Less common adverse events (occurring in less than 1% of those taking the drug) include: 1  Gastrointestinal: diarrhea, dyspepsia, abdominal pain, constipation, emesis. 2  Neurologic: dizziness, drowsiness, amblyopia.
Based on urinary pharmacokinetic data, the extent and rate of urinary excretion of nitrofurantoin from the 100 mg Macrobid capsule are similar to those of the 50 mg or 100 mg Macrodantin 速 (nitrofurantoin macrocrystals) capsule. Macrobid 速(nitrofurantoin monohydrate/macrocrystals) Capsules To reduce the development of drug-resistant bacteria and maintain the effectiveness of Macrobid and other antibacterial drugs, Macrobid should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by bacteria.