Investigators have determined 12 separate genes known to cause Bardet-Biedl syndrome. In rare cases, some individuals have required the occurrence of three mutations (i.e., two in one gene and a third in another gene or three separate genes) to develop the disorder (triallelic inheritance). Another common finding associated with Bardet-Biedl syndrome is truncal obesity, which refers to a condition in which fat is disproportionately distributed on the abdomen and chest rather than the arms and legs. Weight is usually normal at birth, but weight gain may be seen in the first year of life.
Bardet–Biedl syndrome (BBS) is a rare autosomal recessive ciliopathy characterised by retinal dystrophy, obesity, post-axial polydactyly, renal dysfunction, learning difficulties and hypogonadism. Many associated minor features can be helpful in making a diagnosis and are important in the clinical management of BBS. 1 Diagnosis is based on clinical features. 2  Molecular genetic testing is available and currently 16 genes are known to be associated with Bardet–Biedl syndrome (BBS), accounting for approximately 80 % of clinically diagnosed BBS.
“We know that Bardet-Biedl syndrome is caused by mutations in at least 19 known genes, and that patients with the condition have inherited a faulty gene from each of their parents. What I’m trying to do is to develop treatments that can help correct some of these mistakes.. While these therapies won’t cure Bardet-Biedl syndrome, they do have the potential to prevent and treat the blindness that it causes, and for Dr Forsythe, that’s all the motivation she needs. “I know that it is absolutely key for the patients to have this research.
About one-quarter of all cases of Bardet-Biedl syndrome result from mutations in the BBS1 gene. Another 20 percent of cases are caused by mutations in the BBS10 gene. The other BBS genes each account for only a small percentage of all cases of this condition. Other major signs and symptoms of Bardet-Biedl syndrome include the presence of extra fingers and/or toes (polydactyly), intellectual disability or learning problems, and abnormalities of the genitalia.
Bardet-Biedl syndrome is a disorder that affects many parts of the body. The signs and symptoms of this condition vary among affected individuals, even among members of the same family. Vision loss is one of the major features of Bardet-Biedl syndrome. Loss of vision occurs as the light-sensing tissue at the back of the eye (the retina) gradually deteriorates. Other major signs and symptoms of Bardet-Biedl syndrome include the presence of extra fingers and/or toes (polydactyly), intellectual disability or learning problems, and abnormalities of the genitalia.
Bardet-Biedl syndrome is characterized as recessively inherited. In other words, neither parent exhibits characteristics of the disorder, but both carry the recessive gene that causes the disorder. Parents who have one affected child run a 25 percent chance in each additional pregnancy of the condition occurring again. Bardet-Biedl syndrome can be difficult to diagnose, especially in the young, because many of the symptoms are not yet obvious and may vary considerably from one patient to another. Because there is no known cure, physicians concentrate on the treatment of specific organs and systems.
The most common defective gene associated with Bardet-Biedl syndrome is the BBS1 gene located on the long arm (q) of chromosome 11 (11q13). The BBS1 gene accounts for approximately 30 percent of cases. Chromosomes, which are present in the nucleus of human cell, carry the genetic information for each individual. Another common finding associated with Bardet-Biedl syndrome is truncal obesity, which refers to a condition in which fat is disproportionately distributed on the abdomen and chest rather than the arms and legs. Weight is usually normal at birth, but weight gain may be seen in the first year of life.
Most cases of Bardet-Biedl syndrome are inherited as an autosomal recessive trait. Genetic diseases are determined by the combination of genes for a particular trait that are on the chromosomes received from the father and the mother. Another common finding associated with Bardet-Biedl syndrome is truncal obesity, which refers to a condition in which fat is disproportionately distributed on the abdomen and chest rather than the arms and legs. Weight is usually normal at birth, but weight gain may be seen in the first year of life.
Some individuals with Bardet-Biedl syndrome may also develop anomalies of the structure and/or function of the kidneys, potentially resulting in abnormal accumulation of urine in the kidneys (hydronephrosis) or inflammation of the kidneys and the pelvis (pyelonephritis). Another common finding associated with Bardet-Biedl syndrome is truncal obesity, which refers to a condition in which fat is disproportionately distributed on the abdomen and chest rather than the arms and legs. Weight is usually normal at birth, but weight gain may be seen in the first year of life.
Bardet-Biedl syndrome is a rare genetic disorder that affects the brain and can cause multiple physical problems including a deterioration of the intellect and neurological functions. Bardet-Biedl syndrome can be difficult to diagnose, especially in the young, because many of the symptoms are not yet obvious and may vary considerably from one patient to another. Because there is no known cure, physicians concentrate on the treatment of specific organs and systems.