The Great Barrier Reef can be seen from outer space and is the world's biggest single structure made by living organisms. This reef structure is composed of and built by billions of tiny organisms, known as coral polyps. It supports a wide diversity of life and was selected as a World Heritage Site in 1981. The Great Barrier Reef has long been known to and used by the Aboriginal Australian and Torres Strait Islander peoples, and is an important part of local groups' cultures and spirituality. The reef is a very popular destination for tourists, especially in the Whitsunday Islands and Cairns regions.
You can spend a lifetime exploring the Great Barrier Reef and still not see all of this colorful coral realm—it’s nearly the size of Montana. Sprawling off the east coast of Queensland, Australia, the Great Barrier Reef is not a single reef but a group of more than 2,800 distinct entities. It stretches over 1,250 miles (2,000 kilometers) north to south and covers some 135,000 square miles (350,000 square kilometers) in total
The Great Barrier Reef is the world's largest reef system, composed of roughly 3,000 individual reefs and 900 islands that stretch for 2,600 kilometres (1,616 mi) and cover an area of approximately 344,400 square kilometres (133,000 sq mi). The reef is located in the Coral Sea, off the coast of Queensland in northeast Australia. A large part of the reef is protected by the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park.
The Great Barrier Reef World Heritage Area is the largest World Heritage Area in the world and one of just a few that meet all four natural World Heritage criteria: 1  An example of a major stage in the earth's evolutionary history. World Heritage. Natural and cultural properties considered to be of 'outstanding universal value' and which meet the strict criteria of the World Heritage Convention may be entered on the list compiled by the World Heritage Committee of UNESCO.
The Australian and Queensland governments have strongly welcomed the final and unanimous decision of the UNESCO World Heritage Committee to not place the Great Barrier Reef on its world heritage 'in danger' list. Read more…. 
The Great Barrier Reef was put on the world heritage list because of its outstanding beauty. It is also one of the largest barrier reefs in the world. The marine life thrives in its amazingly well kept oceans. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The reason for it being a world heritage site is because it holds so many beautiful features like fish, coral and mammals. The Great Barrier Reef is UNESCO World Heritage listed because it is the largest coral reef in the world. By having World Heritage designation, the Great Barrier Reef is acknowledged to be of value to all people and is to be preserved
The Great Barrier Reef is the world's largest coral reef system composed of over 2,900 individual reefs and 900 islands stretching for over 2,300 kilometres (1,400 mi) over an area of approximately 344,400 square kilometres (133,000 sq mi). The reef is located in the Coral Sea, off the coast of Queensland, Australia. The Great Barrier Reef has long been known to and used by the Aboriginal Australian and Torres Strait Islander peoples, and is an important part of local groups' cultures and spirituality. The reef is a very popular destination for tourists, especially in the Whitsunday Islands and Cairns regions.
Great Barrier Reef (UNESCO/TBS). The Great Barrier Reef is a site of remarkable variety and beauty on the north-east coast of Australia. It contains the world’s largest collection of coral reefs, with 400 types of coral, 1,500 species of fish and 4,000 types of mollusc. 
In 1981, the Great Barrier Reef became Queensland's first world heritage area. It meets all the criteria for natural world heritage as it: 1  represents major stages of the earth's evolutionary history. 2  is an outstanding example of ongoing ecological and biological processes. 3  contains superlative natural phenomena. 