T. C. A. G. An explanation of the Genetic Code: DNA is a two-stranded molecule. Each strand is a polynucleotide composed of A (adenosine), T (thymidine), C (cytidine), and G (guanosine) residues polymerized by dehydration synthesis in linear chains with specific sequences. 
The two ends of a DNA strand have different chemical groups. 
Confidence votes 76. In DNA polarity refers to the direction that the molecule is synthesised in. Directionality is important as the genetic code must be read. One end of the molecule is a phosphate-labelled 5' (5 prime) At the other is a hydroxyl group-labelled 3'. It is the polar hydroxyl group that relates to the name 'polarity'. DNA is a polar molecule because it has a negatively (-) charged phosphate group attached to the 5' end of the molecule and a negatively charge hydroxl group (OH) attached to t … he 3' prime end of the molecule.  Thus, it is a POLAR molecule which allows it to interact in an aqueous environment
The DNA duplex has polarity. One end of each DNA strand is called 5' (prime) end because the last deoxyribose unit at this end has carbon at position 5, free. Similarly, the other end of the strand is termed 3' (prime) because the last deoxyribose unit has carbon at position 3, free. Himadrisekhar S · 8 years ago. If a phosphate group is attached to the 5′ end, ligation of two nucleotides can occur, via a phosphodiester bond from the 5′-phosphate to the 3′-hydroxyl group of another nucleotide. If it is removed no ligation can occur.
Antiparallel DNA has the two strands organized in the opposite polarity, with one strand oriented in the 5′-3′ direction and the other oriented in the 3′-5′ direction. Best Answer: Double-stranded DNA is a right-handed helix formed by two individual DNA strands aligned in an antiparallel fashion (a right-handed helix, when viewed on end, twists clockwise going away from the viewer).
This polarity in a DNA chain is indicated by referring to one end as the 3 ′ end and the other as the 5 ′ end. The three-dimensional structure of DNA — the double helix —arises from the chemical and structural features of its two polynucleotide chains. Complementary base pairs in the DNA double helix. The shapes and chemical structure of the bases allow hydrogen bonds to form efficiently only between A and T and between G and C, where atoms that are able to form hydrogen bonds (see Panel 2-3, pp.
In any nucleic acid, RNA or DNA 3' refers to the 3rd carbon of sugar ribose or deoxyribose which is linked to OH group and 5' linked to a triple phosphate group. So these 5' and 3' group provide a directional polarity to the DNA or RNA molecule. Now a good question would be y 3' and 5' not 3 and 5. It is simply to differentiate sugar carbons from that of the bases which are also having a carbon skeleton and thus nos for their carbon
Summary. Genetic information is carried in the linear sequence of nucleotides in DNA. Each molecule of DNA is a double helix formed from two complementary strands of nucleotides held together by hydrogen bonds between G-C and A-T base pairs. Duplication of the genetic information occurs by the use of one DNA strand as a template for formation of a complementary strand. Complementary base pairs in the DNA double helix. The shapes and chemical structure of the bases allow hydrogen bonds to form efficiently only between A and T and between G and C, where atoms that are able to form hydrogen bonds (see Panel 2-3, pp.