Indian Flag. Map of India. GEOGRAPHY. India is part of the continent of Asia. Most of India forms a peninsula, which means it is surrounded by water on three sides. The world's highest mountain range, the Himalaya, rises in the north. The southeast is bordered by the Bay of Bengal, and the southwest is bordered by the Arabian Sea. 
It is the seventh-largest country in the world, with a total area of 3,166,414 square kilometres (1,222,559 sq mi). India measures 3,214 km (1,997 mi) from north to south and 2,933 km (1,822 mi) from east to west. 
India, officially the Republic of India (Bhārat Gaṇarājya), is a country in South Asia. It is the seventh-largest country by area, the second-most populous country with over 1.2 billion people, and the most populous democracy in the world. With 7 of the world's top 15 information technology outsourcing companies based in India, the country is viewed as the second-most favourable outsourcing destination after the United States, as of 2009. India's consumer market, the world's eleventh-largest, is expected to become fifth-largest by 2030.
India, which is located in the South Asia is the largest democracy of the world. It is the 7th largest country by area in world and the 2nd most populous country. The Indian Peninsula is bordered by India Ocean on the south, the Arabian Sea on the south-west, and the Bay of Bengal on the south-east. Geography. India is the seventh largest nation in the world, covering most of the Indian subcontinent in South Asia. As a peninsula, India is surrounded on three sides by the Indian Ocean, with the Arabian Sea along the west, and the Bay of Bengal along the east.
India has seven neighbours: Pakistan in the north-west, China and Nepal in the north, Bhutan and Bangladesh in the north-east, Myanmar in the east and Sri Lanka, an island, in the south. India is the largest democracy in the world by population. The capital of India is New Delhi. India is a peninsula, bound by the Indian Ocean in the south, the Arabian Sea on the west and Bay of Bengal in the east. The coastline of India is of about 7,517 km (4,671 mi) long. India has the third largest army in the world and nuclear weapons. India gets its name from the Greek word, Indus.
Asia Description. As the largest and most populous continent in the world with just over 3.8 billion people, Asia is composed of a wide variety of ethnic groups, cultures, environments, economics, historical ties, and governmental systems. 
India is a vast country in the Southern portion of Asia which is bound by Indian Ocean on its south, Arabian Sea on its west and Bay of Bengal on its east and borders Pakistan, Nepal, Bhutan, China and Bangladesh on its north, northwest, northeast and east. 
In the Indian Ocean, India is in the vicinity of Sri Lanka and the Maldives; in addition, India's Andaman and Nicobar Islands share a maritime border with Thailand and Indonesia. With 7 of the world's top 15 information technology outsourcing companies based in India, the country is viewed as the second-most favourable outsourcing destination after the United States, as of 2009. India's consumer market, the world's eleventh-largest, is expected to become fifth-largest by 2030.
It most certainly is. Asia is the largest and most populated  continent in the world.   India is one of many countries that are a part of it. Here are some  other countr … ies in Asia: Indonesia, countries of Middle East (also  known as West Asia), Russian Federation, Singapore, Georgia and  many more. 31 people found this useful. 