Titanic is a 1953 American drama film directed by Jean Negulesco. Its plot centers on an estranged couple sailing on the maiden voyage of the RMS Titanic, which took place in April 1912. 
Not only a film, the title of which was taken from the RMS Titanic, operated by the White Star line. The RMS Titanic struck an iceberg and sank, on the morning of April 15, … 1912, with the loss of about 1500 lives. 4 people found this useful. 
Lastet opp 17. jan. 2009. This Video is about the Titanic movie showing it's unforgetable scenes. Titanic is a 1997 American disaster film directed, written, co-produced and co-edited by James Cameron about the sinking of the RMS Titanic.
Anders Falk, who filmed a documentary about the film's sets for the Titanic Historical Society, cameoes in the film as a Swedish immigrant whom Jack Dawson meets when he enters his cabin. Ed and Karen Kamuda, then President and Vice President of the Society, were extras in the film. In 2009, James Cameron's Avatar (the first film Cameron had made since Titanic) topped Titanic, however. The film was originally scheduled to open on July 2, 1997; however, post-production delays pushed back its release to December 19 instead. Titanic was an enormous critical and commercial success.
Cameron's inspiration for the film came from his fascination with shipwrecks; he felt a love story interspersed with the human loss would be essential to convey the emotional message of the disaster. Production began in 1995, when Cameron shot footage of the actual Titanic wreck. A 3D version of Titanic, released on April 4, 2012 to commemorate the centennial of the sinking, earned it an additional $343.6 million worldwide, pushing the film's worldwide total to $2.18 billion.
More info on Fox Studios in Baja below this photo of the ship from the movie, Master and Commander, at Fox Studios in Baja... Pictured-Fox Studios in Baja, Mexico. Fox Studios is the spot where the movie [i]Titanic[/i] was filmed, and it's a lot of fun to tour -- especially the Titanic movie set. Take a break from Rosarito Beach's clubs, sand and sea to see Fox Studios, a tourist attraction worth visiting in Baja. 
The modern scenes were shot on board the Akademik Mstislav Keldysh, which Cameron used as a base while filming the actual wreck. A reconstruction of the Titanic was built in Baja, California, at Playas de Rosarito. Scale models and CGI effects were also used to create a more realistic version of the ship. In 2009, James Cameron's Avatar (the first film Cameron had made since Titanic) topped Titanic, however. The film was originally scheduled to open on July 2, 1997; however, post-production delays pushed back its release to December 19 instead. Titanic was an enormous critical and commercial success.
The scenes with the lifeboats were filmed also on the Baltic Sea and some of the interior scenes were shot in Tobis Studios. Titanic endured many production difficulties, including a clash of egos, massive creative differences and general war-time frustrations. 
Not only a film, the title of which was taken from the RMS Titanic, operated by the White Star line. The RMS Titanic struck an iceberg and sank, on the morning of April 15, … 1912, with the loss of about 1500 lives. 
The Titanic salvage fleet was actually filmed off the coast of San Diego, CA. The shot of the Titanic docked in New York Harbor was actually filmed in Greece. The bow is the ship Athinai used for the live exterior/interior shots. The rest is a matte painting. 