Henle's Loop. The portion of the nephron called the 'Henle's loop' is shown in the right half of the illustration. It consists of a descending limb that has a down arrow in it and an ascending limb with an up arrow in it. The ascending limb has a thick and a thin segment. Counter-Current Mechanisms. The mechanisms shown here are traditionally called the 'counter-current multiplier' and the 'counter-current exchanger'. The first takes place in the region of the nephron called Henle's loop; the second occurs in a region of the peritubular capillary bed called the 'vasa recta'.
1. The Loop of Henle establishes medullary hyperosmolarity The ascending limb of the loop of Henle transports solutes (NaCl) out of the tubule lumen with little or no water, generating an hyperosmotic medullary interstitium and delivering an hyposmotic tubule fluid to the distal tubule. 4. Mechanism of hyperosmotic reabsorption in the TAL. There is apical Na-K-2Cl reabsorptive cotransport with K recycling through apical K-channels, and basolateral transport of Na via the Na-K-ATPase and of Cl via Cl-channels, in the water impermeable epithelium of the TAL.
Loop of Henle -- This segment of the nephron plays a major role in the countercurrent exchange/multiplier system of water conservation. It has the ability to concentrate solutes, increase osmotic pressure, and conserve or excrete water. It also serves as a sight of Na, K, and Cl conservation. 
Increased sodium and chloride ion concentrations in the interstitial fluid of the renal medulla is the result of countercurrent mechanisms. 
1 loop of Henle = U shaped loop that dips into the renal medulla = countercurrent multiplier mechanism occurs here. 2  Descending limb = water reabsorption by osmosis (permeable to water, but not to solute). 3  Bottom of U = most concentrated. 4  Ascending limb = salt reabsorption (permeable to salt, but not water). 1 Nephron = functional unit of kidney = glomerulus, Bowman's capsule, proximal tubule, loop of Henle, distal tubule, collecting duct (shared by many nephron). 2  glomerulus = ball of fenestrated capillaries. 3  Bowman's capsule = Cup/Capsule that surrounds the glomerulus.
Best Answer: In the kidney, the loop of Henle is the portion of the nephron that leads from the proximal convoluted tubule to the distal convoluted tubule. The loop has a hairpin bend in the renal medulla. The main function of this structure is to reabsorb water and ions from the urine. To do this, it uses a countercurrent multiplier mechanism in the medulla. It is named after its discoverer, F. G. J. Henle. COUNTERCURRENT SYSTEM and the LOOP OF HENLE 1. 
A countercurrent multiplication loop is a system where fluid flows in a loop so that the entrance and exit are at similar low concentration of a dissolved substance but at the far end of the loop there is a high concentration of that substance. The exchange of heat in this diagram (1) is an example of countercurrent exchange. In this example the cold water requires the birds circulatory system to recycle heat and minimize heat loss through the skin.
1. Process (same text as syllabus notes, but points listed separately). a. The active reabsorption of Na+ and Cl-in the ascending thick limb of juxtamedullary nephrons combined with the thick limb impermeability to water results in an increased osmolality in the renal medulla. b. 