The average car can go anywhere from 110mph to 160mph in America. There are faster cars of course, but that's the average American's car speed. 1 When it comes to fast cars for teenagers, there are a variety of choices on the market. 2  The vehicles li…. 3  5 Things to Remember When Buying a Used Car Online Internet retail activity has increased dramatically over the past years. 4  Nowadays, you can buy virtually anything online, including used cars.
Or maybe you just want to have fun bashing a seriously fast electric RC car over the park. Whatever the reason, this guide will give you some great tips on how you can go faster. Depending on how fast you want to go and the amount of money you want to spend, there are a number of ways to speed up your RC car or truck. I’ll start with the cheaper options first and work my way up to the most expensive.
- Search and Read Stories at AOL Autos. Pity poor reverse; modern cars typically have 4, 5, 6 or even 7 forward gears, but reverse gets a measly 1. So I was pleased to accept the challenge of discovering how fast a ride can go backwards, and decided to use a 2010 Audi S5 loaned to me as my guinea pig. We don't recommend going fast in reverse, said Jim Lanzon, Executive Director of Transmission Engineering at GM. We put a lot of attention, in terms of design and analysis, toward the reverse gear-as much importance on that gear as the forward drive gears.
You don't specify if your new car is a 2008 or out of the showroom new. If your new car is right out of the showroom don't drive it more than 100 miles an hour to 110 miles an hour for the first 1000 miles. You should be able to travel up to 40mph dependin … g on road conditions. Keep in mind the average speed you drive with chains is consistent with how long they will last. I tend to keep it under 30mph. As a general guideline, 30mph on properly tightened and adjusted chains should be max.
How fast can a lotus car go?   it realy does depend on which lotus you are looking at...   however,   speed has never been lotus's specialty, they are more familiar with the handling and acceler … ation aspect of a car, but they do exceed 135mph on the whole. 1 When it comes to fast cars for teenagers, there are a variety of choices on the market. 2  The vehicles li…. 3  5 Things to Remember When Buying a Used Car Online Internet retail activity has increased dramatically over the past years. 4  Nowadays, you can buy virtually anything online, including used cars.
At 100 mph, it's like driving through water. At 200 mph, the air is as thick as cold molasses, and getting to 300 mph is like trying to shove a Matchbox car through a four-year-old fruitcake. The rule of thumb for speed and air resistance is that for a given car, it takes four times as much power to go twice as fast. So, if your car can do 50 mph with 35 horsepower, you'll need 140 horsepower to do 100 mph. For 200 mph, you'll need about 560 horsepower. At 300 mph, it would be around 2,240 horsepower. To break the sound barrier, you'd need around 10,000 horsepower -- roughly the equivalent of a Top Fuel engine. 
An average car will go 0-60 in about 8.4 seconds. Edit. Share to: 1  5 Fast, Stylish, and Fun Cars for Teenage Drivers There are plenty of options when you are looking for new or used cars. 2  When it comes to fast cars for teenagers, there are a variety of choices on the market. 1 When it comes to fast cars for teenagers, there are a variety of choices on the market. 2  The vehicles li…. 3  5 Things to Remember When Buying a Used Car Online Internet retail activity has increased dramatically over the past years. 4  Nowadays, you can buy virtually anything online, including
How fast does a electric gem car go. Polaris GEM vehicles are “electronically limited to a top speed of 25 mph to meet Federal Low-Speed Vehicle requirements.” Drive them on most public roads with speed limits that do not exceed 35 mph. Find roads like this on campuses, military bases, resorts, and gated communities
How fast can your car go in second gear?? I get this question a lot as if it were some standard measurment for fast cars. 
There are two speeds associated with radio controlled vehicles: scale speed and actual speed. Some manufacturers, in a bid to capitalize on the perceived superiority of really fast cars, will list the scale speed rather than the actual speed of the RC. It can make a normal car seem faster than it really is. A 1:8 scale RC listed with a scale speed of 110 mph, probably has an actual speed of around 13-14 mph. A 1:64 scale RC, such as Radio Shack Zip Zaps, with a scale speed of 110 mph has an actual speed of about 1.7 mph. There's a big difference between 1.7 and 14 mph even though both vehicles have a scale speed of 110.