Written and directed by Andrew Stanton, it tells the story of the overprotective clownfish named Marlin who, along with a regal tang named Dory, searches for his abducted son Nemo all the way to Sydney Harbour. Along the way, Marlin learns to take risks and let Nemo take care of himself. Originally released on May 30, 2003, the film was eventually re-released in 3D on September 14, 2012, and it was released on Blu-ray on December 4, 2012.
While attempting to save Nemo, Marlin meets Dory, a good-hearted and optimistic regal blue tang with short-term memory loss. Marlin and Dory meet three sharks – Bruce, Anchor and Chum – who are trying to make friends with fish in an old minefield. Along the way, Marlin learns to take risks and let Nemo take care of himself. Originally released on May 30, 2003, the film was eventually re-released in 3D on September 14, 2012, and it was released on Blu-ray on December 4, 2012.
Best Answer: Here's a site that shows all the real-life equivalents of the characters in Finding Nemo: http://web.mit.edu/seagrant/edu/res/nemo... Dory is a Blue Tang or Palette Surgeonfish. These animals are blue only when they reach adulthood. 
Finding Nemo is the best-selling DVD of all time, with over 40 million copies sold as of 2006, and was the highest-grossing G-rated film of all time before Pixar's own Toy Story 3 overtook it. It is the 31st highest-grossing film of all time, as well as the 5th highest-grossing animated film. In 2008, the American Film Institute named it the 10th greatest animated film ever made as part of their 10 Top 10 lists. A sequel, Finding Dory, is in production, set to be released on June 17, 2016. Along the way, Marlin learns to take risks and let Nemo take care of himself. Originally released on May 30, 2003, the film was eventually re-released in 3D on September 14, 2012, and it was released on Blu-ray on December 4, 2012.
1 The nicknames Dory gave to Nemo (in order of appearance) are Chico, Fabio, Bingo, Harpo, and Elmo. 2  The first four are a reference to the Marx Brothers (excluding Groucho), while the fifth is a reference to the red Muppet monster from the children's puppet show Sesame Street. 1 In Finding Nemo: The Musical, Dory wears mismatched socks. 2  Dory is a Regal tang fish and popularized this species. 3  Dory will be the third female Pixar protagonist, succeeding after Merida from Brave and Joy from Inside Out.
Finding Dory is an upcoming American 3D computer-animated film produced by Pixar Animation Studios and released by Walt Disney Pictures. It is a sequel to the 2003 Pixar film Finding Nemo. Andrew Stanton, who directed the original film, will return as writer and director, alongside Angus MacLane as the co-director. And it has everything I loved about the first one: It's got a lot of heart, it's really funny, and the best part is—it's got a lot more Dory.. In a July 2013 interview with Los Angeles Times, Stanton spoke of the sequel's origin: There was polite inquiry from Disney [about a Finding Nemo sequel].
The Whale is a character from Disney/ Pixar 's 2003 film Finding Nemo. He is voiced by Frank Welker. This whale is the largest character in the film. Upon leaving the EAC, Marlin and Dory get trapped inside the mouth of a blue whale after swimming into its path.
Dory is the deuteragonist of Finding Nemo, and is set to return in the upcoming sequel Finding Dory as the protagonist. 1 On the Disney website, they mistakenly refer to Dory as a Yellowtail Tang. 2  Although she does have a yellow tail, this is a different species of fish. 3  The nicknames Dory gave to Nemo (in order of appearance) are Chico, Fabio, Bingo, Harpo, and Elmo.
Dory is the deuteragonist in Disney / Pixar 's 2003 film Finding Nemo, and the protagonist in its upcoming 2016 sequel. She suffers from short-term memory-loss and is a bit ditzy. She is voiced by comedienne/TV personality Ellen DeGeneres. 1 In Finding Nemo: The Musical, Dory wears mismatched socks. 2  Dory is a Regal tang fish and popularized this species. 3  Dory will be the third female Pixar protagonist, succeeding after Merida from Brave and Joy from Inside Out.