Your BMI is based on your height and weight. It's one way to see if you're at a healthy weight. Underweight: Your BMI is less than 18.5. Healthy weight: Your BMI is 18.5 to 24.9. Overweight: Your BMI is 25 to 29.9. Obese: Your BMI is 30 or higher. The chart below shows examples of body mass indexes. The figure at which your height corresponds with your weight is your body mass index
This calculator provides BMI and the corresponding BMI weight status category. Use this calculator for adults, 20 years old and older. For children and teens, 2 through 19 years old, use the BMI Calculator for Children and Teens. Your BMI is, indicating your weight is in the category for adults of your height. For your height, a normal weight range would be from to pounds. Talk with your healthcare provider to determine possible causes of underweight and if you need to gain weight.
Body mass index, or BMI, is a way to help you figure out if you are at a healthy weight for your height. BMI is a number based on your weight and height. In general, the higher the number, the more body fat a person has. Divide that by your height in inches, squared: BMI = (your weight in pounds x 703) ÷ (your height in inches x your height in inches). For example, if you weigh 120 pounds and are 5 ft. 3 in. (63 in.) tall: BMI = (120 x 703) ÷ (63 x 63) or 84,360 ÷ 3969 = 21.3. This is well within the healthy weight range.
Your BMI (Body Mass Index) can help you find a healthy target weight range. BMI is a measure of body fat based on height and weight. BMI has several limitations: it's not accurate for pregnant women, people under 5 feet tall, and people with very muscular builds. It also does not account for age. Please remember that your BMI is just a guideline to help decide your target weight.
1 This calculator provides BMI and the corresponding BMI-for-age percentile on a CDC BMI-for-age growth chart. 2  Use this calculator for children and teens, aged 2 through 19 years old. Body Mass Index (BMI) is a person's weight in kilograms divided by the square of height in meters. A high BMI can be an indicator of high body fatness. BMI can be used to screen for weight categories that may lead to health problems but it is not diagnostic of the body fatness or health of an individual.
This calculator provides BMI and the corresponding BMI-for-age percentile on a CDC BMI-for-age growth chart. Use this calculator for children and teens, aged 2 through 19 years old. For adults, 20 years old and older, use the Adult BMI Calculator. Measuring Height and Weight Accurately At Home. 
BMI Calculator. BMI (Body Mass Index) is a measurement of body fat based on height and weight that applies to both men and women between the ages of 18 and 65 years. BMI can be used to indicate if you are overweight, obese, underweight or normal. A healthy BMI score is between 20 and 25. A score below 20 indicates that you may be underweight; a value above 25 indicates that you may be overweight. You can calculate your BMI by using our BMI Calculator below, or by using the BMI Formula
Body Mass Index (BMI) is a measurement of a person’s body mass in relation to the squared value of his/her height. Body Mass Index (BMI) is also a value that indicates whether you are overweight, underweight or an ideal weight. Body Mass Index (BMI) does not take into account an above average amount of muscle mass in your body. By having many trained muscles, the ideal/normal weight of your body may be higher. This BMI calculator is not suitable for calculating the BMI of children or adolescents.
Calculate Your Body Mass Index. Body mass index (BMI) is a measure of body fat based on height and weight that applies to adult men and women. 1  Enter your weight and height using standard or metric measures. 2  Select Compute BMI and your BMI will appear below. 