The aorta is the largest blood vessel in the body, originating from the left ventricle of the heart and bringing oxygenated blood to all parts of the body in the systemic circulation. The aorta is the main (largest) artery of the circulatory system. Separating aorta might refer to an aortic dissection. An aortic dissection is a life-threatening aortic condition in which the inner layer of the aorta is torn.
Ruptured aneurysms require emergency surgery to stop the bleeding. The aorta has many layers. Aortic dissection is a tear that develops in the inner layer of the aorta, causing blood to flow between the layers. The layers then separate, interrupting the blood flow and possibly causing the arterial wall to burst. 
The aorta is the largest artery in your body and is connected directly to the heart and it also carries the blood to the rest of your body and disperses the blood to the branc … hes of other arteries extended off the aorta. An aortic thrombus is a blood clot in the aorta. This would be a bad situation because a clot that breaks free in the aorta can cause tissue death in any organ of the body. Th … is can result in anything from a stroke, heart attack, or kidney failure.
Descending aorta: The descending aorta is the part of the aorta, the largest artery in the body, that runs down through the chest and the abdomen. The descending aorta starts after the arch of the aorta and ends by splitting into two great arteries (the common iliac arteries) that go to the legs. The other part of the descending aorta, the. Like other sections of the aorta (the ascending aorta and aortic arch), the descending aorta is an arbitrary anatomic entity. The aorta is one continuous conduit that stems from the left ventricle of the heart to carry blood to most of the body.
The aorta is the largest artery in your body. It originates from your heart and carries blood from your heart to the rest of your body. The aortic valve is one of four heart valves. The aortic valve separates the left ventricle (which pumps blood to the body) from the aorta. It opens and closes automatically, based on pressure changes in your heart.
All rights reserved. The aorta is the largest artery in the body. The aorta begins at the top of the left ventricle, the heart's muscular pumping chamber. The heart pumps blood from the left ventricle into the aorta through the aortic valve. Three leaflets on the aortic valve open and close with each heartbeat to allow one-way flow of blood. The aorta is a tube about a foot long and just over an inch in diameter. The aorta is divided into four sections:
The aorta (/eɪˈɔrtə/) is the main artery in the human body, originating from the left ventricle of the heart and extending down to the abdomen, where it splits into two smaller arteries (the common iliac arteries). The aorta distributes oxygenated blood to all parts of the body through the systemic circulation. One way of classifying a part of the aorta is by anatomical compartment, where the thoracic aorta (or thoracic portion of the aorta) runs from the heart to the diaphragm. The aorta then continues downward as the abdominal aorta (or abdominal portion of the aorta) diaphragm to the aortic bifurcation.
The descending aorta is the part of the aorta beginning at the aortic arch that runs down through the chest and abdomen. The descending aorta anatomically consists of two portions or segments, the thoracic and the abdominal aorta, in correspondence with the two great cavities of the trunk in which it is situated. The descending aorta is part of the aorta, the largest artery in the body.
The aorta is the largest blood vessel in the body, originating from the left ventricle of the heart and bringing oxygenated blood to all parts of the body in the systemic circulation. The aorta is the main (largest) artery of the circulatory system. It carries the blood from the heart to all prats of the body. An aortic thrombus is a blood clot in the aorta. This would be a bad situation because a clot that breaks free in the aorta can cause tissue death in any organ of the body. Th … is can result in anything from a stroke, heart attack, or kidney failure.