The health benefits of hibiscus tea include relief from high blood pressure and high cholesterol, as well as digestive, immune system, and inflammatory problems. It helps to cure liver disease and reduces the risk of cancer. It can also speed up the metabolism and help in healthy, gradual weight loss.
Hibiscus tea is simple to prepare – just boil water and add the flowers of the hibiscus plant or a tea bag. You can purchase dried loose flowers at your local health food store or in a tea bags.
Since time immemorial, Hibiscus tea is known for its health benefits and therapeutic uses. The hibiscus and its northern sister plant, rose of Sharon, also a hibiscus, is more than just a beautiful flower, it has healing properties when made into tea.
Hibiscus Tea and Antioxidants. Hibiscus flower tea is made from the dried calyces of the hibiscus flower. Calyces are known to contain high levels of antioxidants and, for good health, antioxidants are an essential part of our diets.
Hibiscus tea is proven to lower blood pressure, quench your thirst, help shed a few pounds, and much more. Hibiscus is a popular ornamental plant in gardens worldwide. Many species of it are known for their colorful and large flowers which attract insect pollinators like bees and butterflies.
Organic Hibiscus Tea is made from the deep crimson flowers of the Hibiscus sabdariffa tree and is often referred to as Roselle. These flowers are rich in nutrients including flavonoids, minerals, and vitamin C. Consuming hibiscus tea has been shown to aid in lowering high blood pressure and reducing cholesterol.
Hibiscus Tea Benefits-This tea is more than a thirst-quenching brew! Hibiscus tea benefits, well known in traditional medicine for many years, range from its potent antioxidants to its ability to lower blood pressure and more.
HIBISCUS Overview Information. Hibiscus is a bushy annual plant. Parts of the flower are used to make a popular drink in Egypt called Karkade. Various parts of the plant are also used to make jams, spices, soups, and sauces. The flowers are used to make medicine.