The most frequent cause of trigeminal neuralgia is a blood vessel pressing on the nerve near the brain stem. Over time, changes in the blood vessels of the brain can result in blood vessels rubbing against the trigeminal nerve root. Pain originating in the face, or elsewhere, may be caused by an injury, an infection in a structure of the face, a nerve disorder, or it may occur for no known reason.
Trigeminal Neuralgia Overview. Trigeminal neuralgia causes facial pain .Trigeminal neuralgiadevelops in mid to late life. The condition is the most frequently occurring of all the nerve pain disorders. The pain, which comes and goes, feels like bursts of sharp, stabbing, electric-shocks. 
Main Content. The most common cause of facial pain is a group of conditions called temporomandibular joint and muscle disorders (TMJDs). These disorders cause recurrent or chronic pain and dysfunction in the jaw joint and its associated muscles and supporting tissues
Facial pain can be caused by anything from an infection to nerve damage in the face. Common causes for facial pain include: 1  oral infections. 2  ulcers (open sores). 3  abscess (collection of pus under the surface tissue in the mouth, for example). 4  skin abscess (collection of pus under the skin). 5  headache. 6  facial injury. 7  toothache.
Trigeminal neuralgia is inflammation of the trigeminal nerve, causing intense facial pain. It is also known as tic douloureax because the intense pain can cause patients to contort their face into a grimace and cause the head to move away from the pain. The obvious movement is known as a tic. 
There are a number of causes of facial pain. Dental surgery or TMJ work may contribute to some forms of facial pain, which will be discussed later. The most common forms of facial pain arise due to migraine headaches and neuropathic problems. 
0. 0. 2. Facial pain has a long list of possible causes but the diagnosis can often be made by a good history and examination. The common causes are often benign and self-limiting but it is essential not to miss those conditions that require urgent treatment-eg, temporal arteritis, or early diagnosis-eg, malignancy. 
Allergies or infections that cause inflammation of the sinuses can produce facial pain. Facial pain can also be caused by sinusitis, an inflammation the sinuses, the air-filled pockets in the nasal passages, cheeks, forehead, and eyes. Trigeminal neuralgia is a condition manifesting with extreme facial pain that can feel like burning or an electric shock. The pain is severe enough that daily activities, such as chewing, eating, or teeth brushing, can be agonizing. Other neurologic causes of facial pain include Bell’s palsy and Parkinson’s disease.
Trigeminal neuralgia is another example of a cause of facial pain. Neuralgia refers to pain in the distribution of a nerve (or nerves), and commonly implies paroxysmal (sudden) pain, although the accepted IASP definition specifies that the term should not be restricted to mean paroxysmal pain. 