Glucagon is a peptide hormone, produced by alpha cells of the pancreas, that raises the concentration of glucose in the bloodstream. Its effect is opposite that of insulin, which lowers the glucose concentration. The pancreas releases glucagon when the concentration of glucose in the bloodstream falls too low. Glucagon causes the liver to convert stored glycogen into glucose, which is released into the bloodstream. High blood glucose levels stimulate the release of insulin. Insulin allows glucose to be taken up and used by insulin-dependent tissues. 
Glucagon is released from the alpha cells in the pancreatic islets. Epinephrine is also released from the adrenal medulla. Glucose is released from the liver, released from glycogen via glycogenolysis. Insulin release is suppressed. Glucagon is released by the alpha cells in the pancreas when blood sugar is too low. It causes the liver to convert stored glycogen into glucose, which raises the blood sugar level again. When blood sugar is too low glucagon is produced by the pancreas which stimulates the liver to catabolize (break down) stored glycogen into individual glucose molecules thereb … y raising overall blood sugar levels. Answered.
When your blood sugar levels rise after a meal your pancreas releases insulin. Insulin allows to be taken into the cells of your body where it is used in. It also allows glucose to be converted to which is stored in the liver and. When your blood sugar levels rise after a meal your pancreas releases insulin. Insulin allows glucose to be taken into the cells of your body where it is used in cellular respiration. It also allows soluble glucose to be converted to an insoluble carbohydrate called glycogen which is stored in the liver and muscles
Insulin and glucagon are hormones secreted by islet cells within the pancreas. They are both secreted in response to blood sugar levels, but in opposite fashion! Insulin is normally secreted by the beta cells (a type of islet cell) of the pancreas. 
Glucagon. Glucagon is secreted by the alpha cells of the pancreas when blood glucose is low. Blood glucose is low between meals and during exercise. When blood glucose is high, no glucagon is secreted from the alpha cells. Glucagon has the greatest effect on the liver although it affects many different cells in the body. Glucagon's function is to cause the liver to release stored glucose from its cells into the blood.
Insulin is a hormone made by the pancreas that allows your body to use sugar (glucose) from carbohydrates in the food that you eat for energy or to store glucose for future use. Insulin helps keeps your blood sugar level from getting too high (hyperglycemia) or too low (hypoglycemia). After you eat, cells in your pancreas are signaled to release insulin into the bloodstream. If you have more sugar in your body than it needs, insulin helps store the sugar in your liver and releases it when your blood sugar level is low or if you need more sugar, such as in between meals or during physical activity.
Insulin causes the uptake of glucose from your blood into your cells. In a healthy person when blood sugar levels go up, insulin is secreted by the pancreas which causes a dec … rease in blood sugar. When they fall, your pancreas secrets glucagon, which causes cells to release sugar into the blood stream. 1 person found this useful. Answered. Glucagon is the main hormone that increases blood glucose levels. According to wikipedia the following also increase blood glucose levels (hyperglycemic hormones): S … omatostatin, Cortisol, Growth Hormone, Glucagon, Thyroxine, and Epineprine.
Insulin is secreted by the beta cells of the pancreas in response to high blood sugar, although a low level of insulin is always secreted by the pancreas. After a meal, the amount of insulin secreted into the blood increases as the blood glucose rises. When blood glucose is high, no glucagon is secreted from the alpha cells. Glucagon has the greatest effect on the liver although it affects many different cells in the body. Glucagon's function is to cause the liver to release stored glucose from its cells into the blood.
Glucagon is released to stop blood sugar levels dropping too low, while insulin is released to stop blood sugar levels rising too high. Release of glucagon is stimulated by low blood glucose (hypoglycaemia), protein-rich meals and adrenaline (another important hormone for combating low glucose). Release of glucagon is prevented by raised blood glucose and carbohydrate in meals, detected by cells in the pancreas. Glucagon’s role in the body is to prevent blood glucose levels dropping too low. To do this, it acts on the liver in several ways: It stimulates the conversion of stored glycogen (stored in the liver) to glucose which can be released into the bloodstream.