ORTHOVISC is derived from bacterial cells. ORTHOVISC is given as an injection into your knee joint (administered by a health professional) once a week for 3-4 consecutive weeks. After 3-4 injections, studies have shown pain relief that lasts for up to 6 months.
Even though you may experience pain relief after your first or second injection of ORTHOVISC, be sure to get all 3 or 4 injections for maximum benefits with an ice pack applied to the knee. Remember to wrap the ice pack in a towel. The number of courses/injections is a decision you and your doctor need to make.
Had torn meniscus and knee scope surgery. Had the last of 4 injections of orthovisc. Knee pain is awful. No relief. This drug is very expensive.. $250 per injection for the orthovisc plus $200 for the doctor to do the injection. Doctor won't give me any pain meds because the DEA does not allow it.
ORTHOVISC is given as an injection into your knee joint (administered by a health professional) once a week for three or four consecutive weeks. After three injections, studies have shown pain relief that lasts for up to six months. 3 Although individual results vary, some people feel relief after the first injection.
This medicine is given as a shot into your knee joint. It may take more than one injection for the pain to go away. You will receive a series of shots of this medicine one week apart for a total of three or four injections.
Also, after the injection, you may experience increased pain and swelling in the knee at first. If the pain or swelling continues or worsens, talk to your doctor promptly. It is important to have this medication injected on schedule.
ORTHOVISC® is a FDA-approved therapy medication injected directly into the knee and is used to treat knee pain in patients with joint inflammation (osteoarthritis). Patients who have not responded to other treatments such as acetaminophen, exercise, or physical therapy may benefit from it's use.
Uses For Orthovisc. Hyaluronic acid injection is used to treat knee pain caused by osteoarthritis (OA) in patients who have already been treated with pain relievers (e.g., acetaminophen) and other treatments that did not work well.