Women in their 20s and 30s should have a clinical breast exam (CBE) as part of a periodic (regular) health exam by a health professional preferably every 3 years. Starting at age 40, women should have a CBE by a health professional every year. The American Cancer Society believes the use of mammograms, MRI (in women at high risk), clinical breast exams, and finding and reporting breast changes early, according to the recommendations outlined above, offers women the best chance to reduce their risk of dying from breast cancer.
American Cancer Society recommendations for early breast cancer detection in women without breast symptoms. Women age 40 and older should have a mammogram every year and should continue to do so for as long as they are in good health. 1  Current evidence supporting mammograms is even stronger than in the past. The American Cancer Society believes the use of mammograms, MRI (in women at high risk), clinical breast exams, and finding and reporting breast changes early, according to the recommendations outlined above, offers women the best chance to reduce their risk of dying from breast cancer.
Not all organizations agree on mammogram guidelines. For instance, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force mammogram guidelines recommend women begin screening at age 50 and repeat the test every two years. The American Cancer Society and other organizations recommend screening begin at 40 and continue annually. Reacting to changing evidence. Mayo Clinic supports screening beginning at age 40 because screening mammograms can detect breast abnormalities early in women in their 40s. Findings from a large study in Sweden of women in their 40s who underwent screening mammograms showed a decrease in breast cancer deaths by 29 percent.
This is because although an MRI is a more sensitive test (it’s more likely to detect cancer than a mammogram), it may still miss some cancers that a mammogram would detect. For most women at high risk, screening with MRI and mammograms should begin at age 30 years and continue for as long as a woman is in good health. The American Cancer Society believes the use of mammograms, MRI (in women at high risk), clinical breast exams, and finding and reporting breast changes early, according to the recommendations outlined above, offers women the best chance to reduce their risk of dying from breast cancer.
Both the National Cancer Institute and the American Cancer Society recommend screening mammography for women age 40 and older. Talk with your Beaumont doctor about how often you should have a mammogram. American Cancer Society Guideline for Screening Mammography. Women age 40 and older should have a screening mammogram on a regular basis, every one to two years. Women 40 years of age and older should have a screening mammogram every year.
As recently as 1992, the American Cancer Society recommended women get a baseline mammogram at age 35 to 39, so that doctors would have an image to which to compare their later screening results. In guidelines released Tuesday, the society said that women at average risk of breast cancer should begin annual mammograms at age 45 -- five years later than it had previously recommended.
Six years ago, the American Cancer Society lashed out against a federal task force that suggested most women could wait to get mammograms until age 50, instead of age 40, the age that other groups recommended beginning breast cancer screening. Delaying mammograms, the cancer society said, would lead more women to die. In guidelines released Tuesday, the society said that women at average risk of breast cancer should begin annual mammograms at age 45 -- five years later than it had previously recommended.
Now the American Cancer Society has revised its guidelines, saying most women can start at age 45. But that guidance doesn't jibe with what has suggested by other groups. There's big disagreement over when and how often women should get mammograms. Until Tuesday, the American Cancer Society said women should get one every year starting at age 40, as well as regular breast exams by their doctors. The new American Cancer Society guidelines are far more complicated. 
The American Cancer Society recommends yearly screening mammograms starting at age 40 and continuing for as long as you are in good health. However, the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) does not recommend routine screening for women in their 40s. 
The American Cancer Society and Mayo Clinic recommend that all American women begin scheduling routine mammograms starting at age forty. The U.S. Preventative Services Task Force recommends women without a family history of the disease get a mammogram every two years from ages fifty to seventy-four. 