Back to Video Surveillance Signs. In recent years, the use of video surveillance in the private sector has become an increasingly valuable security measure. In fact, studies have shown that employing a closed-circuit television system is the most effective method of ensuring that criminals are correctly convicted. The majority of video surveillance laws concern the invasion of privacy with the use of covert video surveillance. The use of covert video surveillance is particularly controversial in areas in which a high level of personal privacy is expected, such as: locker rooms, dressing rooms, bedrooms, and bathroom stalls.
CCTV used on your property will be exempt from the Data Protection Act unless you are capturing footage of individuals outside your property. However, regardless of whether your CCTV system is exempt, the ICO recommends that you use CCTV in a responsible way to protect the privacy of others. Most uses of CCTV will be covered by the Data Protection Act. This gives you the right to see information held about you, including CCTV images of you, or images which give away information about you (such as your car number plate).
Video surveillance, however, is rarely required by law. One that does come to mind is ATM facilities in New York City, which I believe must have CCTV coverage. But property owners are not required to install and supervise CCTV. More often than not CCTV is installed by property owners as a measure to reduce property damage or to record the damage for possible police investigation after the fact. Some property complexes do have CCTV with on-site guard monitoring and certainly the presence of CCTV does raise the question of liability. A landlord of a residential property has a duty to provide reasonable security when the property is known to be in a high crime area and that tenants are likely to be at risk. Also, there are laws that affect the landlord's duty to provide some level of protection, such as front door locks and intercom systems.
CCTV SIGNS MUST BE CORRECT. CCTV signs that you use MUST be individually made to suit YOUR OWN CCTV system to be legal. It is no good buying off the shelf signs that just tell people that they are being recorded or suchlike. See Data Protection Act-Legal Requirements. Legal CCTV signs are easily obtainable from compliant CCTV Sign makers, such as the one given below. Beware-not all signs claiming to be compliant for CCTV are actually legal. Some sign makers either don't know the rules or don't care as long as they can sell you something.
The person in charge of the premises has not given permission for video surveillance. If you opt to incorporate a covert video surveillance system into your home or business, consult with a lawyer or your local law enforcement agency to ensure your compliance with local, state, and federal video surveillance laws. The majority of video surveillance laws concern the invasion of privacy with the use of covert video surveillance. The use of covert video surveillance is particularly controversial in areas in which a high level of personal privacy is expected, such as: locker rooms, dressing rooms, bedrooms, and bathroom stalls.
CCTV warning notices non-compliant with data protection laws, says watchdog. The Government must take action to ensure that signs used to warn motorists that CCTV cameras are being used to monitor for parking offences are compliant with UK data protection laws, a watchdog has said. 07 Feb 2014. 1  Data protection. 2  TMT & Sourcin
In either case, using this system will ensure that your recorded CCTV evidence is always likely to be acceptable to the police and Courts of Law, and of course will comply with Data Protection Act for CCTV systems. Here is a sample form.... No need to worry (we tell you why later). Management of a CCTV system to keep within Data Protection Act law needs to have proper checklists, forms, CCTV warning signs and procedures tied together by a CODE OF PRACTICE. Without all of this you might as well not have registered, because you are still not complying with the Act
Current parking signs and road signs warning of the use of cameras do not convey this type of information.. Many signs used by local authorities are for the benefit of pedestrians and imply use of CCTV for public safety purposes. The Government must take action to ensure that signs used to warn motorists that CCTV cameras are being used to monitor for parking offences are compliant with UK data protection laws, a watchdog has said.
The DATA PROTECTION ACT 1998 requires that your CCTV system is registered with some exceptions. This might include your CCTV system! You must conform to Data Protection Act law for CCTV systems if you operate a CCTV system in a public place or workplace for the purpose of targeting individuals. No need to worry (we tell you why later). Management of a CCTV system to keep within Data Protection Act law needs to have proper checklists, forms, CCTV warning signs and procedures tied together by a CODE OF PRACTICE. Without all of this you might as well not have registered, because you are still not complying with the Act