The rule I've always used is 3 days. If meat (cooked or raw) has been opened and not eaten within 3 days, chuck it. The use by date on the bacon is for SEALED packages. Once its opened, more bacteria can get in, and there's more chance of contamination. Even if you have wrapped it well, there's still a chance. Your bacon in the freezer however should be ok.
1 Bacteria grow rapidly at temperatures between 40 °F and 140 °F; bacon should be discarded if left for more than 2 hours at room temperature. 2  To further extend the shelf life of bacon, freeze; when freezing, place bacon in the freezer before the number of days shown for refrigerator storage has elapsed. 1 How long does bacon last at room temperature? 2  Bacteria grow rapidly at temperatures between 40 °F and 140 °F; bacon should be discarded if left for more than 2 hours at room temperature.
1 If you freeze it, it will last up to 6 months. 2  Just cook it a bit less than you like it, so when you go to warm it up, it doesn't overcook. 3  Bacon bits will last for about 6 weeks in the fridge, and 6 months in the freezer. Different types of bacon keep for different lengths of time. 1  Cooked bacon in strips lasts for around a week post-cooking, in the fridge. 2
Best Answer: Bacon is cured therefore it can last a long time in the refrigerator. If there is no foul smell and it is not slimy, then it is perfectly fine to use. When I have had bacon for a long period of time, like your situation, I make it all and use it in sandwiches and omelets the rest of the week. You can warm it easily in the microwave, something to consider. Source(s): Luv2Cook · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. Thumbs down. 0. 1 comment. Loading ...
1 Cooked bacon in strips lasts for around a week post-cooking, in the fridge. 2  If you freeze it, it will last up to 6 months. 3  Just cook it a bit less than you like it, so when you go to warm it up, it doesn't overcook. 4  Bacon bits will last for about 6 weeks in the fridge, and 6 months in the freezer. Different types of bacon keep for different lengths of time. 1  Cooked bacon in strips lasts for around a week post-cooking, in the fridge. 2
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airtight c … ontainer. Bacon however is pre-cooked in a smoker, so technically it should keep much longer. It is also vacuum-packed, so it won't oxygenate and lose flavor either. 
I keep a jar for bacon drippings in the refrigerator. Whenever I cook bacon, I add the grease to the jar, so the level is constantly fluctuating. I have been using the same jar for years (at least 8-10) and have never had the drippings go bad. I've never had bacon grease last long enough to find out when it goes bad, but it should last at least a week, and probably several weeks. Clarified butter can last several months in the fridge.
You can help bacon keep fresh longer by storing it in your refrigerator immediately after use. Once prepared, it should be stored in a tightly closed container to keep out moisture and other contaminants. For a long-term option, you can freeze your bacon while preserving its taste if you use a freezer safe container. Bacon Cindy 2015-04-21T07:10:21+00:00. How long does bacon last? The shelf life of bacon depends on a variety of factors, such as the sell by date, the preparation method and how the meat was stored.
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.  .