This status is for people who enter the U.S. on a temporary basis – whether for tourism, business, temporary work, or study. Once a person has entered the U.S. in nonimmigrant status, they are restricted to the activity or reason for which they were allowed entry. This is for people who live permanently in the United States. Synonymous terms for immigrant status are: Permanent Resident, immigrant, green card holder, and resident alien.
An nonimmigrant who remains out of status for at least 180 days is deportable and will be unable to re-enter the United States for 3 years. A nonimmigrant who remains out of status for at least 365 days is deportable and will be unable to re-enter the United States for 10 years. For more information on the types of visas available, refer to the Department of State’s Questions About Visas web page. All immigrants are eventually issued a green card (USCIS Form I-551), which is the evidence of the alien’s LPR status. LPR’s who are awaiting the issuance of their green cards may bear an I-551 stamp in their foreign passports.
1 If the student’s visa is still valid, the student should contact the US embassy in his/her country to determine if a new visa must be issued since the SEVIS number on the visa will be different than the new I-20. 1 The student must pay a new SEVIS fee on the I-20. 2  The fee can be paid at: www.fmjfee.com. 3 
If not a U.S. citizen, every person who enters the U.S. has either an immigrant or nonimmigrant status. This is for people who live permanently in the United States. Synonymous terms for immigrant status are: Permanent Resident, immigrant, green card holder, and resident alien.
Immigrant Status. This is for people who live permanently in the United States. Synonymous terms for immigrant status are: Permanent Resident, immigrant, green card holder, and resident alien. Gaining immigrant status can be a lengthy and complex process that requires close consultation with an immigration attorney
BASIC INFORMATION. If a student’s F-1 status has been terminated due to a violation of status, a student has two options to correct his/her status. The first option is through an application process done in the US called reinstatement. 1 The student must pay a new SEVIS fee on the I-20. 2  The fee can be paid at: www.fmjfee.com. 3  If the student’s visa is still valid, the student should contact the US embassy in his/her country to determine if a new visa must be issued since the SEVIS number on the visa will be different than the new I-20.
Secrets to Getting Your F1 Visa Approved. An F1 visa is issued to international students who are attending an academic program or English Language Program at a US college or university. F-1 students must maintain the minimum course load for full-time student status. They can remain in the US up to 60 days beyond the length of time it takes to complete their academic program, unless they have applied and been approved to stay and work for a period of time under the OPT Program.
Although a California school is not required to inquire about immigration status, once the school knows a student is not a citizen, the student should be directed to pay the fee required by federal law. Questions: California Department of Education | 916-319-0800. Last Reviewed: Wednesday, August 13, 2014. However, in 1997, federal immigration law was changed to say that a non-immigrant foreign student could only obtain an F-1 student visa to study in the U.S. if the student paid the school of attendance a fee equal to the cost of educating the student.
Proposition 187 of 1994 and the Welfare Reform Act of 1996. The immigration status of students in California has been the subject of a variety of laws and legal challenges. Current law states that school-age children who reside in California must not be denied a free public education based on citizenship status. However, in 1997, federal immigration law was changed to say that a non-immigrant foreign student could only obtain an F-1 student visa to study in the U.S. if the student paid the school of attendance a fee equal to the cost of educating the student.
There are two ways a student can regain legal status: 1  Apply to USCIS for reinstatement to legal status (while staying in the US). 2  Leave the US to re-enter with a new I-20. 3  The student must have a valid visa to re-enter. US Immigration law requires all F-1 students and F-2 dependents to notify CIE of their US address within thirty days after initial arrival in the US and within ten days after any move to a different US address.