Kaieteur Falls is about five times higher than the more well known Niagara Falls, located on the border between Canada and the United States and about two times the height of the Victoria Falls located on the border of Zambia and Zimbabwe in Africa. It is located in Kaieteur National Park. It is 226 meters (741 ft) high when measured from its plunge over a sandstone and conglomerate cliff to the first break. It then flows over a series of steep cascades that, when included in the measurements, bring the total height to 251 meters (822 ft).
Kaieteur Falls of the Central Guyana-Image by Barefoot Traveler. 1- Kaieteur Falls is a waterfall on the Potaro River in central Guyana. It is located in the Kaieteur National Park. 3- Kaieteur Falls is about three times higher than the more well known Niagara Falls, located on the border between Canada Falls and the US and about two times the height of the Victoria Falls located on the border of Zambia and Zimbabwe in Africa. Amazing falls of the Kaieteur national park – Image by Tim Snell.
Luckily, there is the Kaieteur Falls that stands out among the rest of the falls in the whole wide world. The Kaieteur Falls is located in Guyana, a tropical country on the continent of South America. It is estimated to be as five times high as the Niagara Falls, which is considered the highest falls in the continent of North America. Since Kaieteur Falls is one of the most sought-after tourist spot not only in Guyana but in South America as well, the transportation means to go to the area are made easier for the tourists. The falls are situated in Kaieteur National Park. It can be found in the central part of Guyana’s tropical rainforest.
Kaieteur Falls is a major tourist attraction in Guyana. The falls is located in Kaieteur National Park and is in the center of Guyana's rainforest. There are frequent flights between the falls airstrip and Ogle Airport and Cheddi Jagan International Airport in Georgetown. Kaieteur Falls is about four times higher than the Niagara Falls, on the border between Canada and the United States, and about twice the height of the Victoria Falls, on the border of Zambia and Zimbabwe in Africa. It is a single drop waterfall
Kaieteur Falls is one of the most powerful waterfalls on the planet. The falls occur where the Potaro River plunges 741 feet off the edge of the Mazaruni-Potaro Shield into a long, broad isolated gorge. When you situate a waterfall of that height on a river of the Potaro's size then it becomes elevated to a classification that very few waterfalls can achieve. Kaieteur Falls is indeed one of the planets most spectacular and most powerful waterfalls, its really a shame that it isn't more easily accessible.
Kaieteur Falls is the world's widest single drop waterfall, located on the Potaro River in the Kaieteur National Park, in Essequibo, Guyana. Its location is in the Amazon forest. Kaieteur Falls is about four times higher than the Niagara Falls, on the border between Canada and the United States, and about twice the height of the Victoria Falls, on the border of Zambia and Zimbabwe in Africa. It is a single drop waterfall
5 Kaieteur Falls. flickr/sorenriise. Kaieteur Falls is located on the Potaro River in the centre of Guyana’s rainforest. It is one of the most powerful waterfalls in the world, averaging 663 cubic meters per second (23,400 cubic feet per second). 
Guyana submitted the Kaieteur National Park, including the Kaieteur Falls, to UNESCO as its first World Heritage Site nomination. The proposed area and surrounds have some of Guyana's most diversified life zones with one of the highest levels of endemic species found in South America. 
Kaieteur Falls is a high-volume waterfall on the Potaro River in central Guyana, Potaro-Siparuni region. It is located in Kaieteur National Park. It is 226 meters (741 ft) high when measured from its plunge over a sandstone and conglomerate cliff to the first break. It then flows over a series of steep cascades that, when included in the measurements, bring the total height to 251 meters (822 ft).