Hi, I am trying to assign ports/Interfaces to VLAN 2 but need to assign the whole blade or many ports on two or three blades to VLAN 2. Switch CAT 4500 running Cisco IOS-I can only do one port/interface at a time: Switch-4500(config)# interface fastEthernet 0/2. Switch-4500(config-if)# switchport access VLAN 2. vlan Set VLAN when interface is in access mode. So this way, as explained above one port at a time gets assigned to a VLAN. I need to do multiple ports. how can I do this if possible at all.
Configuring Static VLANs. On a Cisco switch, ports are assigned to a single VLAN. These ports are referred to as access ports and provide a connection for end users or node devices, such as a router or server. By default all devices are assigned to VLAN 1, known as the default VLAN. After creating a VLAN, you can manually assign a port to that VLAN and it will be able to communicate only with or through other devices in the VLAN. Configure the switch port for membership in a given VLAN as follows: Statically assign a VLAN: COS. IOS. To change the VLAN for a COS device, use the set vlan command, followed by the VLAN number, and then the port or ports that should be added to that VLAN
Next, you will need to set the VLAN mode for each switch port. By default, each port is a trunk port, so you will have to change ports 1 to 8 to access ports. In the following page, select port 1, and then click “Edit”. In the dialog box that appears, select “Access”. Change ports 2 to 8 to access ports in the same way. 
After creating a VLAN, the next step is to assign ports to the VLAN. An access port can belong to only one VLAN at a time. One exception to this rule is that of a port connected to an IP phone, in which case there are two VLANs associated with the port: one for voice and one for data. 
Resolution. Create a VLAN, and configure a Layer 3 (L3) VLAN interface. Assign an IP address for this interface, as shown: Configure the switch port as a Layer 2 (L2) access port, and associate the access port to a VLAN, as shown: You can also assign multiple interfaces into a VLAN, as shown:
6-2: VLAN Port Assignments. VLANs are assigned to individual switch ports. Ports can be statically assigned to a single VLAN or dynamically assigned to a single VLAN. All ports are assigned to VLAN 1 by default. Ports are active only if they are assigned to VLANs that exist on the switch. By default all devices are assigned to VLAN 1, known as the default VLAN. After creating a VLAN, you can manually assign a port to that VLAN and it will be able to communicate only with or through other devices in the VLAN. Configure the switch port for membership in a given VLAN as follows:
Re: How to: configure switch port for multiple VLANs. On the  Switch ports configuration page, click on the blue text Swx 0/2 for port 2. This will open a new page with a tab for Allowed VLAN list . Make sure that both 1 and 33 are there. How to: configure switch port for multiple VLANs. Greetings-I need some help configuring a NetVanta 3120 (firmware R10.9.3.E). Hopefully I can use the GUI for this task. The problem is: All traffic is using the default VLAN 1. I'd like to separate Public Wi-Fi traffic onto its own VLAN 33.
Determine which port to configure as a multi-VLAN port. Here, three VLANs are created on a Catalyst 3512XL Switch, and one port of the switch is connected to an external router. This example configures the port that is connected to the router as a multi-VLAN port. For more information about how to create VLANs and assign ports to VLANs, see the Configure the VLAN on Catalyst 2900XL, 3500XL, 2950, 2970, and 2940 Series Switches section of this document. Configure the Fast Ethernet 0/1 port in multi-VLAN mode, and add assigned VLANs to the multi-VLAN port.
Access ports in switches are normally used to connect end devices like workstations and printers. Access ports belong to only a single VLAN and do not provide any identifying marks on the Ethernet frames. When configuring an access port, you also want to define which VLAN the port belongs to. To configure and assign a switch access port to a VLAN, open a console connection to the switch and run the following IOS commands from interface configuration mode. 