DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Rituximab is an intravenous drug that is used to treat rheumatoid arthritis and B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. It belongs to a class of drugs called monoclonal antibodies. Other monoclonal antibodies include trastuzumab (Herceptin) and gemtuzumab ozogamicin (Mylotarg).
Rituximab injection is used alone or with other medicines to treat a type of cancer called non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). It helps the immune system destroy cancer cells. Rituximab injection is a monoclonal antibody.
Rituximab is used together with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide to treat a type of cancer called chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Rituximab is used together with methotrexate to treat the symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis.
Rituximab is a cancer medication that interferes with the growth and spread of cancer cells in the body. Rituximab is used to treat non-Hodgkin's lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Rituximab is also used in combination with another drug called methotrexate to treat symptoms of adult rheumatoid arthritis.
Rituximab is used alone or with other medications to treat certain types of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL; a type of cancer that begins in a type of white blood cells that normally fights infection) and chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL; a type of cancer that begins in the white blood cells).
Uses. Rituximab is used alone or with other medications to treat certain types of cancer (e.g., non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, chronic lymphocytic leukemia). It is a type of medication called a monoclonal antibody. It works by attaching to certain blood cells from your immune system (B cells) and killing them.
Generic Name: Rituximab. Drug Type: Rituxan is a monoclonal antibody. (For more detail, see How Rituxan Works section below). What Rituxan Is Used For: 1  Treatment of certain types of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. 2  Treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).
Rituximab is a cancer medication that interferes with the growth and spread of cancer cells in the body. Rituximab is used to treat non-Hodgkin's lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Rituximab is also used in combination with another drug called methotrexate to treat symptoms of adult rheumatoid arthritis.
Rituximab (trade names Rituxan, MabThera and Zytux) is a chimeric monoclonal antibody against the protein CD20, which is primarily found on the surface of immune system B cells.