Step 1: Start with a square piece of origami paper. If you only have regular 8.5x11 paper, follow these instructions to make a square sheet. Step 2: Fold the paper in half by folding the top corner to the bottom corner. Step 3: Now fold the triangle in half by taking the left corner and folding it to the right. Step 4: Open and spread the top flap, then crease the left and right sides so you can flatten the flap down. Step 5: Turn the paper over so we can repeat the last step. Step 6: Make the left flap stand vertically, then open and squash down. Step 7: Fold the top layers of both sides to the cent
Origami Dragon Step 7: Now it's time to start folding the neck of the origami dragon, using a sequence of three (3) reverse folds. The reverse fold is explained in detail in the origami flapping bird instructions. Follow the next ten (10) photos to make the neck of the dragon. Fold the opposite corners of the diamond to the centerline as shown. You can watch our Origami Dragon Instructions Video, or follow the step-by-step photo instructions below. Origami Dragon Step 2: Now fold the rear flap down and back: Origami Dragon Step 3: Fold the corner A upwards.
I designed this origami dragon so I may be biased ;), but I have to say that this is one of the coolest looking ones while being one of the easiest to fold. Besides being entirely foldable and not too complex, it can also flap when you pull its tail! It looks awesome, it's easy to fold, and you can play with it. Step 4: Open and spread the top flap, then crease the left and right sides so you can flatten the flap down. Step 5: Turn the paper over so we can repeat the last step. Step 6: Make the left flap stand vertically, then open and squash down.
How to make an easy origami dragon. origami instructions. ---------------------------------------- ­------------. Como hacer un dragon dragón de origami. facil fácil How to make an easy origami dragon. origami instructions. ---------------------------------------- ­------------. Como hacer un dragon dragón de origami. Facil fácil en este caso estoy usando un papel De 21 (x). 21 cm
& Instructions. The origami dragon video below will show you how to make a great dragon from a single piece of paper. This wonderful piece of art is an original design by Robyn Hondow. It's cool, simple, and easier to fold compared to other popular models! Dragons are mythical creatures of many cultures. Origami Dragon Head Instructions. If you've been successful at making one of these dragons, congratulations! You can upload a photo and share your success-just scroll down to where it says, Share Your Origami Dragon.. Now, let's get started! Check out the origami dragon video below and learn how to fold this design.
Okay, so you're ready to learn how to make an origami dragon. Grab yourself a square sheet of paper, a clean table, and follow these simple step-by-step instructions. You'll have a sweet fire-breathing dragon in no time. I will be describing the steps to you directly above the pictures i have included. 
Step 2: Fold the paper in half by folding the top corner to the bottom corner. Step 3: Now fold the triangle in half by taking the left corner and folding it to the right. Step 4: Open and spread the top flap, then crease the left and right sides so you can flatten the flap down. Step 5: Turn the paper over so we can repeat the last step. Step 6: Make the left flap stand vertically, then open and squash down.
Lastet opp 19. nov. 2011. How to make an origami dragon video instructions. To fold the paper origami dragon above you need a square piece of paper with size: 21cm X 21cm or 8.267inches X 8.267inches. Also try to make origami dragon from Printing paper (A4 or Letter) http://youtu.be/VQx0p51AnrM. WHAT CAN I DO WITH THIS ORIGAMI...
by John Szinger. This Dragon is a two-colored model when folded from a standard sheet of origami paper. Start with the white side up to fold a white dragon with colored head and wings, or the colored side up to make a colored body with white head and wings. 