Rabies is caused by lyssaviruses including: rabies virus and Australian bat lyssavirus. Rabies is spread when an infected animal scratches or bites another animal or human. Saliva from an infected animal can also transmit rabies if the saliva comes into contact with the mouth, nose, or eyes. Globally, dogs are the most common animal involved. More than 99% of rabies cases in countries where dogs commonly have the disease are caused by dog bite
The rabies virus is usually transmitted via an animal bite, however, cases have also been reported in which the virus penetrated the body through infected saliva, moist tissues such as the eyes or lips, a scratch on the skin, or the transplantation of infected tissues. Zoonosis — Any disease of animals that can be transmitted to humans. Rabies is an example of a zoonosis. As of October 2004, the medical community awaits the publication of findings by the doctors that administered a life-saving treatment that cured a Wisconsin teenager of full-blown rabies.
Rabies (ray-beez), is a deadly disease caused by a virus. The virus is found in the saliva of a rabid animal and is transmitted by a bite, or possibly by saliva contamination of an open cut or the eyes. Left untreated, rabies attacks the nervous system and causes death. What animals get rabies? Only mammals, including people, can get rabies. 
Knowledge center. Rabies is a deadly virus that attacks the CNS (central nervous system) and causes acute encephalitis. It is transmitted from animals to humans (zoonotic), most commonly by animal bites-although, there have been cases of humans becoming infected in bat caves after breathing in the air. The incubation period for rabies-how long it takes from initial infection to the onset of symptoms-is usually about 4 to 8 weeks long, in some cases as little as one week and as long as a whole year. Over 55,000 people die from rabies worldwide annually, 95% of them in Asia and Africa.
Rabies is an acute viral disease of the central nervous system that affects humans and other mammals but is most common in carnivores (flesh-eaters). It is sometimes referred to as a zoonosis, or disease of animals that can be communicated to humans. Zoonosis — Any disease of animals that can be transmitted to humans. Rabies is an example of a zoonosis. As of October 2004, the medical community awaits the publication of findings by the doctors that administered a life-saving treatment that cured a Wisconsin teenager of full-blown rabies.
Rabies is a preventable viral disease of mammals most often transmitted through the bite of a rabid animal. The vast majority of rabies cases reported to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) each year occur in wild animals like raccoons, skunks, bats, and foxes. 
The rabies virus is part of the Lyssavirus genus and infects other animals, including humans, through infected saliva, usually from a bite. Much less commonly, a person can become infected if an open wound or mucous membranes have contact with infected saliva. The incubation period for rabies-how long it takes from initial infection to the onset of symptoms-is usually about 4 to 8 weeks long, in some cases as little as one week and as long as a whole year. Over 55,000 people die from rabies worldwide annually, 95% of them in Asia and Africa.
Rabies affects humans and other mammals but is most common in carnivores (flesh eaters). It is sometimes referred to as a zoonosis, or disease of animals that can be communicated to humans. Rabies is almost exclusively transmitted through saliva from the bite of an infected animal. 
Usually the bite or scratch of an infected animal, which introduces the virus through the skin or mucous membrane. Bites (vs. nonbite exposure) cause approximately 99% of rabies cases worldwide. Wild animals account for 70% of rabies cases in the U.S.. 