Symptoms of subclavian artery stenosis present in the arms, are neurological or are cardiac. Arm ischemic symptoms may be claudication or finger necrosis from emboli. Splinter hemorrhages are a tell tale sign. Part of the evaluation for blue fingers is to evaluate the subclavian artery. It is usually a consequence of atherosclerosis. It is a disease of smokers and of diabetics. The left subclavian artery is involved more often than the right. Subclavian artery stenosis can be suspected in the office when blood pressure difference is found between the arms. A difference of greater than 20 mmHg suggests subclavian stenosis. In these patients routine blood pressure should be measured in the higher side
In the setting of severe proximal subclavian artery stenosis or occlusion, typically due to atherosclerotic disease, insufficient flow may be present to sustain the ipsilateral arm. In this case, the branches of the subclavian artery may be recruited to provide collateral retrograde flow to the upper limb. Although retrograde blood flow in the vertebral artery is usually noted angiographically in association with proximal ipsilateral subclavian artery occlusion, subclavian steal may also occur with hemodynamically significant subclavian artery stenosis (see the image below). Irregular proximal subclavian stenosis.
Retrograde blood flow from left vertebral artery into left subclavian artery in patient with subclavian steal syndrome. Successful stent treatment of subclavian stenosis, with restored antegrade flow into vertebral artery. In settings where the ipsilateral carotid is unsuitable for carotid-subclavian bypass, the axillary artery may be revascularized via axillary-axillary bypass using a subcutaneously tunneled ring-reinforced prosthetic graft. Alternatively, axillofemoral bypass may be performed.
The underlying factor leading to subclavian steal is proximal subclavian artery occlusion or severe stenosis. In most cases, this is a result of atherosclerotic arterial disease, which has a preponderance for the left side. Although retrograde blood flow in the vertebral artery is usually noted angiographically in association with proximal ipsilateral subclavian artery occlusion, subclavian steal may also occur with hemodynamically significant subclavian artery stenosis (see the image below). Irregular proximal subclavian stenosis.
In a nutshell, the ostial or proximal narrowing of the subclavian artery severely diminishes the forward flow from the aorta into the distal subclavian creating a pressure gradient in which the subclavian pressure distal to the blockage is quite low. Similarly, the internal mammary artery, another subclavian branch that gives blood supply to the chest wall, may provide a pathway for reversed flow into the distal subclavian. The stakes are upped when the internal mammary artery has been used for an in situbypass graft to a coronary artery as in this patient.
However, if the cause of subclavian steal syndrome is determined to be atherosclerotic stenosis or occlusion of the proximal subclavian artery, patients should be treated with lifelong antiplatelet therapy to reduce the risk of associated myocardial infarction, stroke, and other vascular causes of death. In settings where the ipsilateral carotid is unsuitable for carotid-subclavian bypass, the axillary artery may be revascularized via axillary-axillary bypass using a subcutaneously tunneled ring-reinforced prosthetic graft. Alternatively, axillofemoral bypass may be performed.
The term subclavian steal describes retrograde blood flow in the vertebral artery associated with proximal ipsilateral subclavian artery stenosis or occlusion, usually in the setting of subclavian artery occlusion or stenosis proximal to the origin of the vertebral artery. Although retrograde blood flow in the vertebral artery is usually noted angiographically in association with proximal ipsilateral subclavian artery occlusion, subclavian steal may also occur with hemodynamically significant subclavian artery stenosis (see the image below). Irregular proximal subclavian stenosis.
0. 0. Synonym: Harrison and Smyth's syndrome, subclavian steal syndrome, SSS. The subclavian steal phenomenon (SSP) occurs when there is stenosis or occlusion of the subclavian artery proximal to the vertebral artery origin, causing reversed flow in the ipsilateral vertebral artery. Symptoms. Only a minority of patients with subclavian steel stenosis have symptoms. Arm claudication is the most common complaint; pain or fatigue in the arm occurs following exercise. Seek a history of a provoking event that is clearly linked to symptoms.