Please try again later. Excretion is a process of removing waste materials such as nitrogenous waste through excretory system is known as Excretion. Excretory system includes a pair of Kidneys; a pair of ureters, Urinary bladder and urethra to complete excretion process successfully. 
The kidneys, considered the main excretory organs in humans, eliminate water, urea, and other waste products from the body in the form of urine. Other systems and organs in the body also play a part in excretion. The excretory system is a system of organs that removes waste products from the body. When cells in the body break down proteins (large molecules that are essential to the structure and functioning of all living cells), they produce wastes such as urea (a chemical compound of carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen).
The removal of metabolic waste products from the body of an organism is known as excretion. The major excretory products are carbon dioxide, excess water, and nitrogenous compounds like ammonia, urea, uric acid, etc. Carbon dioxide and water are produced in the process of tissue respiration. The kidneys produce urine to filter out the waste products, like urea and uric acid, from the blood. Urine leaves each kidney through a tube called ureters. The ureters from both the kidneys are corrected to the urinary bladder that collects and stores urine.
the process by which the organisms remove the waste from our body is excretion.it consists a) kidneys b) ureters c) urinary bladder d) urethra the kidneys plays an important … role in this mechanism. Excretion is a biological process by which metabolic waste products and toxic materials are removed from the body of an organism. It's an essential part in life, because it ge … ts rid of all the poisons and etc.
Human waste is any substance your body does not need to maintain homeostasis. Excretion is the process of removing these unwanted products through either the skin, urinary system, respiratory system or gastrointestinal system. The primary organs involved in waste removal are liver, kidneys, lungs, intestines and skin.
Excretion is the removal of toxic materials, the waste products of metabolism and substance in excess of requirements from organisms. Metabolism is chemical reactions taking place inside cells, including respiration. The body excretes three main waste materials. 
Excretion in plants and animals. Excretion is the removal of substances from plants, animals and other living organisms. In humans, the skin, lungs and kidneys are excretory organs. 1  1. 2  2. 3  3. 4  4. 5  5. 6  6. 
Excretion is the process by which waste products of metabolism and other non-useful materials are eliminated from an organism. In vertebrates this is primarily carried out by the lungs, kidneys and skin. This is in contrast with secretion, where the substance may have specific tasks after leaving the cell. Excretion is an essential process in all forms of life. In mammals urine is carried out through the urethra and that is part of the excretory system. In single-celled organisms, waste products are discharged directly through the surface of the cell. Chemical structure of uric acid.