The main similarities between cellular respiration and photosynthesis is that they are both processes in which a cell produces glucose or energy. Both are used in your everyda … y environment. One difference is that photosynthesis happens in plants and cellular respiration in both plants and animals.
Both Photosynthesis and Cellular Respiration are processes, which organisms use to obtain energy to sustain life. Both the processes have two stages; photosynthesis occurs in the presence and the absence of light. And cellular respiration occurs in the presence and the absence of oxygen.
One difference of photosynthesis and respiration is that their process is being reversed. In photosynthesis, carbon dioxide and water is yielded to glucose or also known as sugar and oxygen while in respiration, it is the other way around. Sugar and oxygen is yielded to carbon dioxide and water.
Photosynthesis converts the light energy obtained from the sun into chemical energy of sugar and oxygen, whereas cellular respiration is a biochemical process by which cells obtain energy from the chemical bonds of food molecules. Photosynthesis and cellular respiration are both key processes for life.
Photosynthesis and respiration are reactions that complement each other in the environment. They are in reality the same reactions but occurring in reverse. While in photosynthesis carbon dioxide and water yield glucose and oxygen, through the respiration process glucose and oxygen yield carbon dioxide and water.
As with cellular respiration, photosynthesis occurs in two stages. The difference between the two cellular processes is that cellular respiration processes are divided into processes that require oxygen and those that do not require oxygen. In the case of photosynthesis, the processes are divided into those that require light energy and those that do not require light energy.
The biggest difference between photosynthesis and respiration is that photosynthesis only occurs in plants and some bacteria while respiration occurs in all living organisms. They do share one big similarity and that is that the process of photosynthesis is actually the same process only it is completed in reverse.