The all-in-one computer design debuted with the Apple iMac in 1998. While the early all-in-one PC computers were expensive and bulky, all-in-one PCs have become much slimmer, lighter and cheaper with the advent of LCD monitors and smaller, less expensive desktop system components. All-in-one (AIO) desktop PCs offer the advantage of a smaller form factor than desktop PCs, but they often come with several drawbacks as well, including higher cost, weaker performance and limited upgrade options.
Top 10 facts about the world. An all-in-one desktop computer is a type of computer that does away with large towers and fits all the components, such as the hard drive and operating system (OS), into the monitor unit. Though an all-in-one desktop computer has all the main components for the computer to run, the user may still need other pieces of hardware. For example, all-in-one computers do not come with printers installed in the unit.
Yes, you could attach an additional screen to your notebook, or opt for a tower PC with a separate monitor, but you should consider an all-in-one (AIO) desktop. For the same amount you would spend on a 17-inch laptop that weighs more than 10 pounds, you can get an AIO desktop PC, with a 23-inch-or-larger screen. All-in-ones (AIOs) combine the sleekness of laptops with the power of a traditional tower desktops. We walk you through the ins and outs of choosing the right AIO desktop PC.
One of the top reasons to purchase an all-in-one PC is because everything is included, and there’s no need to purchase a separate monitor (or other peripherals.) With LCD screens becoming thinner and more advanced, it is possible to integrate the internal parts of the computer into the screen itself. All-in-one PCs have all their components in the retail box. That means it’s possible to take the box home and just plug and play. There’s no need to buy any additional parts, except for extras like printers and scanners; the computer is ready to perform basic functions like surf the web and create documents.
Due to the size of the displays, computer systems were comprised of three key components: the monitor, the computer case and the input devices. As the size of the monitors decreased, computer companies started to integrate the computer case into the monitor to create an all-in-one. These first all-in-one computer systems were still quite large and generally cost a fair amount compared to a standard computer setup. The most successful of the all-in-one personal computers was the Apple iMac. The original design used the cathode ray monitor with the computer boards and components integrated below the tube. Many similar designed were developed by PC manufacturers, but they did not catch on.
The all-in-one desktop computer is a scaled-down version of computers that require a tower unit to hold all the software and major hardware units. The all-in-one combines the power of a regular desktop unit with the smaller size, but not the portability, of a laptop. Though an all-in-one desktop computer has all the main components for the computer to run, the user may still need other pieces of hardware. For example, all-in-one computers do not come with printers installed in the unit.
The hard drive of an all-in-one computer is housed in monitor itself. Macintosh computers and software are the product of Apple Inc. An all-in-one desktop computer generally does away with the traditional tower and has the hardware tucked away inside a monitor. Though an all-in-one desktop computer has all the main components for the computer to run, the user may still need other pieces of hardware. For example, all-in-one computers do not come with printers installed in the unit.
All desktop computers consist of a hard drive and mother board. The difference is most computers have a seperate tower that houses the disk drives, motherboard, GPU etc. and a … n all-in-one computer houses all its components in the monitor. A good example of a all-in-one is Apple's E-Mac and I-Mac. what dose all in one computer mean any one knows i need to know :) Love, WELLING hope some one know i am a girl :() LOL Laugh Out Loud.
All-in-one PCs, also known as all-in-one desktops, integrate the computer case and system components into the monitor so that the entire PC is contained all in one unit. All-in-one (AIO) desktop PCs offer the advantage of a smaller form factor than desktop PCs, but they often come with several drawbacks as well, including higher cost, weaker performance and limited upgrade options.