Earl. Hey Peggy – There are hundreds of jobs on board cruise ships and it really all depends on your interests and what skills/knowledge you have in order to determine what is really best for you. And in terms of good money, it all depends on the position as salaries range from $500 – $10,000 per month.
Hidden Costs and Practices. When calculating the average salary of any cruise ship worker, it is also necessary to factor in the expenses incurred by taking the job. Cruise workers are required to pay for transportation to the ship, any visas or work permits and medical or legal permits.
So what can you expect to make? The majority of positions are based on an hourly wage and most employment opportunities on a cruise ship earn $1,200-$1,500 a month. There are though, a large number of positions that can make as much as $2,500 a month equating to $13 an hour. Because work weeks on a cruise ship are typically longer than your typical work week, a cruise ship employee can expect to work over 45 hours in a week on average.
Cruise ship workers typically work on six month contracts with a particular cruise line due to the nature of the work and the workplace. Long periods at sea and 7-day work week are a lot for workers to deal with.
It is common to find collective agreements on cruise ships that require all shipboard employees to work 80 hours per week. In a survey of shipboard employees conducted by the ITF in 2001, 95 per cent reported working seven days a week.
On-board entertainers are not affiliated with the cruise line at and are hired on short-term freelance contracts as well. They are paid somewhere between $450 and $2,000 on average depending on the line and the talents they bring. Related Reading: Pros & Cons of Cruise Ship Employment.
Income Range. Salaries range from around $800 per month up to $8,000 depending on the position you work and the line for which you work. Entry-level positions such as junior waitstaff are at the bottom of the ladder, while the maitre d'hotel will be at the top.
I have heard that if you are working on a cruise ship, some of the cruise lines let their staff have a guest or family member come to the ship and cruise for free. They must share the room with the staff who invited them. If this is true, about how long would you have to work on a cruise ship to get this benefit.