Part of the Network administration glossary: A management information base (MIB) is a formal description of a set of network object s that can be managed using the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP). The format of the MIB is defined as part of the SNMP. (All other MIBs are extensions of this basic management information base.) MIB-I refers to the initial MIB definition; MIB-II refers to the current definition. SNMPv2 includes MIB-II and adds some new objects
Management Information Base (MIB) is a collection of Information for managing network element. The MIBs comprises of managed objects identified by the name Object Identifier (Object ID or OID). Each Identifier is unique and denotes specific characteristics of a managed device. 
Objects in the MIB are defined using a subset of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1) called Structure of Management Information Version 2 (SMIv2) RFC 2578. The software that performs the parsing is a MIB compiler. While intended to refer to the complete collection of management information available on an entity, it is often used to refer to a particular subset, more correctly referred to as MIB-module.
A management information base (MIB) is a database used for managing the entities in a communications network. While intended to refer to the complete collection of management information available on an entity, it is often used to refer to a particular subset, more correctly referred to as MIB-module.
Most often associated with the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP), the term is also used more generically in contexts such as in OSI / ISO Network management model. While intended to refer to the complete collection of management information available on an entity, it is often used to refer to a particular subset, more correctly referred to as MIB-module.
Cisco IOS MIB Tools. A MIB (M anagement I nformation B ase) is a database of the objects that can be managed on a device. The managed objects, or variables, can be set or read to provide information on the network devices and interfaces. MIBs (Management Information Base) are in Cisco IOS Software so Network Managers can effectively manage the device the Cisco IOS software is installed into from Network Management Software such as Cisco Works 2000. MIB Locator finds MIBs in Cisco IOS software releases.
How to load Cisco MIBs. SNMP MIB Technical Tips. MIBs (Management Information Base) are in Cisco IOS Software so Network Managers can effectively manage the device the Cisco IOS software is installed into from Network Management Software such as Cisco Works 2000. MIB Locator finds MIBs in Cisco IOS software releases.
1 No switch is too big or too small, but it must be capable of being 'managed' using SNMP (simple network management protocol) and it must support certain MIBs. 2  It's been used on switches as small as the Cisco SF 300-08 series all the way up to core switches like the Cisco 6500 series. The Managed Switch Port Mapping Tool is a Windows application designed to 'map' or discover information about a network switch's ports and report on the attached devices. It does this by accessing switch internal information using Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP) over the network
ASN.1. . So the MIB is used to define what variables can be read from the device. There can be a MIB for a Cisco switch, a MIB for a HP switch and so on. With OID you can read a specific variable from the device, one example being to look at counters for an interface. SNMP is the standard and MIBs are part of that. 