Please try again later. Audio and video pronunciation of Kroy Biermann brought to you by Pronounce Names (http://www.PronounceNames.com), a website dedicated to helping people pronounce names correctly. For more information about this name, such as gender, origin, etc., go to http://www.PronounceNames.com/Kroy+Bi... 1  Education. 
Originally from Jersey, Brian Geraghty graduated from The Neighborhood Playhouse School of Theatre and then began his professional career in New York City before moving to Los Angeles. He has previously enjoyed being a surf instructor and continues to surf in his free time. See full bio ». 
If you have a name you would like to see added, send the information along. This list excludes some of the notable Irish names with Norman and Welsh origins such as Burke, Butler, FitzGerald, Power, Walsh, etc. 
How to pronounce geraghty in english. How to Say geraghty correctly | Pronunciation of geraghty in English, A free online Talking English Dictionary. how to pronounce geraghty. We are to pronounce geraghty by audio dictionary
[ 3 syll. ge-rag -(h) ty, ger-ag-hty ] The baby boy name Geraghty is pronounced JH EH RAHTiy †. Geraghty has its origins in the Irish language. The name Geraghty means 'from the court'. Variation transcriptions of Geraghty include Geraghtea, Geraghtee, Geraghtey, Geraghti, and Geraghtie. Geraghty is not commonly used as a baby boy name. It is not listed within the top 1000. Baby names that sound like Geraghty include Geraghtee, Geraghtey, Geraghti, Geraghtie, Gerity, Gerodie, Jariath, Jaryath, Georget, Gerod, Gerrid, Gerrod, Jared, Jareth, Jarratt, Jarrot, Jarrott, Jerrid, and Jerrot.
Maybe, if you are like me and don't speak Irish, you are finding it difficult to find the right Irish baby boy name because you can't figure out how some of the names are pronounced. It has audio files with pronunciation of a good selection of names. Good luck finding your perfect Irish baby boy name! Click here to go from Irish Baby Boy Name to Baby Boy Names Click here to go from Irish Baby Boy Name to www.parenting-boys.com's home page. Because Boys will be Boys... © Copyright 2008-2009 Parenting-Boys.com Click here to view Disclaimer.
Please try again later. Audio and video pronunciation of Brian Geraghty brought to you by Pronounce Names (http://www.PronounceNames.com), a website dedicated to helping people pronounce names correctly. For more information about this name, such as gender, origin, etc., go to http://www.PronounceNames.com/Brian+G... 1  Education. 
Tell a friend. Copy & paste this HTML into your blog or website: Pronunciation of Geraghty. Pronunciation: The name Geraghty is pronounced with a silent 'gh' - therefore spoken as 'Geraty' - the hard 'g' as in go; 'er' as in the word err; 'rat' as rat and the 'y' as the ea in tea. So spoken like G ER RAT EA.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Towel6. Confidence votes 5. My family always pronounced the name Geraghty with a silent 'gh' - therefore spoken as 'Geraty' - the hard 'g' as in g o; 'er' as in the word er r; 'rat' as rat and the 'y' as the ea in t ea. So spoken like G ER RAT EA. Hope this helps. It depends on the person. Some say Ay-Tee-Ay-Tee because of other walkers, like the AT-ST, AT-PT and AT-AA. Others say At-At (@-@) because it's more efficient to use just tw … o syllables rather than four syllables. I use to say Ay-Tee-Ay-Tee Walker, but now I just just say At-At Walker for the last 10-12 years.