Appalachian Mountains﻿. The Appalachian Mountains is a landform region that is located in Canada, presently in Newfoundland, Quebec, Nova Scotia, and New Brunswick. This landform region was formed about 480 million years ago due to volcanic activity and was formed throughout the Paleozoic Era. This pollution is damaging vegetation, bodies of water, and wildlife and this results in huge negative impacts on ecosystems. The Appalachian Mountains are very resourceful, yet we need to limit the pollution in this landform region of Canada.
The highest of the group is Mount Mitchell in North Carolina at 6,684 feet (2,037 m), which is the highest point in the United States east of the Mississippi River. The term Appalachian refers to several different regions associated with the mountain range. The range is mostly located in the United States but extends into southeastern Canada, forming a zone from 100 to 300 mi (160 to 480 km) wide, running from the island of Newfoundland 1,500 mi (2,400 km) southwestward to Central Alabama in the United States.
Vegetation. In the central part of the Appalachian mountains, there is a wide variety of deciduous and coniferous trees. Some vegetation in higher parts are white spruce, balsam fir and black spruce and feather moss. In the lower elevations by rivers are different. Some trees include sugar maple and white pine. Most of the ranges found in the United States. The mountains are for the most part low because of the erosion. Over time the Appalachian’s sharp peaks have eroded and turned into smooth mountains and hills. The Appalachian region also has many rivers.
The Appalachian Mountains (/ˌaepəˈleɪʃɨn/ ˌæpəˈleɪʃɨn /or/ , ˌaepəˈlaetʃɨn: ˌæpəˈlætʃɨn French), les appalaches often Called, the appalachians are a system of mountains In Eastern. north america The range is mostly located in the United States but extends into southeastern Canada, forming a zone from 100 to 300 mi (160 to 480 km) wide, running from the island of Newfoundland 1,500 mi (2,400 km) southwestward to Central Alabama in the United States.
In the central part of the Appalachian mountains, there is a wide variety of deciduous and coniferous trees. Some vegetation in higher parts are white spruce, balsam fir and black spruce and feather moss. In the lower elevations by rivers are different. Most of the ranges found in the United States. The mountains are for the most part low because of the erosion. Over time the Appalachian’s sharp peaks have eroded and turned into smooth mountains and hills. The Appalachian region also has many rivers.
: The forest vegetation of the region is mixed coniferous and deciduous trees. There is a greater concentration of coniferous trees in cooler northern locations. Deposits in many of the valleys have led to the development of deep, fertile soils. The Appalachians Mountains, often called the Appalachians are a system of mountains that are located in southern Quebec, New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island and Newfoundland. In this map of Canada's landform regions it is highlighted in pink
The trees in the Appalachian region are described as a mixture of deciduous with oaks and hickories. There are spruce and firs to the north. To the south end of the mountains it is the most diverse than any other forest in North America including basswood, tulip trees, ash and magnolia to the mix. 
The Appalachian temperate rainforest is located in the southern Appalachian Mountains of the eastern U.S. About 351,500 square kilometers (135,000 square miles) of forest land is spread across southwestern Virginia, western North Carolina, northern Georgia, and eastern Tennessee. The Southern Appalachian spruce–fir forest is a temperate rainforest located in the higher elevations in southwestern Virginia and western North Carolina. Fir is dominant at higher elevation, spruce at middle elevation, and mixed forests at low elevation.
This report will focus on the Appalachian region of Canada. Geography. The Appalachian region of Canada is located in New Brunswick, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island, Newfoundland and the eastern part of Quebec. The region has many interesting landforms. Some of the landforms found in this region are low mountains, flat uplands, forests, rocky cliffs, and many islands