Fungal forms vary: the most commonly known are mushroom-like in appearance or form spongy, creeping growths. The individual, tubular threads are called hyphae, while a mass of threads is called a mycelium. Specialized hyphae, known as rhizoids, anchor some forms of fungus to the substrate. Parasitic fungi have similar specialized hyphae known as haustoria, which function in nutrient absorption (from the cells of other organisms) while anchoring the fungus. Fungi are nonmotile and lack flagella or cilia, dispersal throughout the environment occurring during reproduction
Fungi: More on Morphology. Like plants and animals, fungi are eukaryotic multicellular organisms. Unlike these other groups, however, fungi are composed of filaments called hyphae; their cells are long and thread-like and connected end-to-end, as you can see in the picture below. 
A hypha consists of one or more cells surrounded by a tubular cell wall. In most fungi, hyphae are divided into cells by internal cross-walls called septa (singular septum). Septa are usually perforated by pores large enough for ribosomes, mitochondria and sometimes nuclei to flow between cells.
The hyphae of these fungi are divided into cells each with, normally, a single nucleus. Many are important parasites but the most obvious are the brightly colored cup-fungi, such as Peziza, which live on dead logs and the like. The hyphae are sometimes divided by cross-walls into cells, each with one or two nuclei. Fungi reproduce by spores. The principal criteria used in their classification are the nature of the spores produced and the presence or absence of cross-walls within the hyphae.
Most coenocytic (multinucleated) or multicelluar fungi are composed of multiple filaments, called hyphae, grouped together into a discrete organism called a mycelium. The cell walls of most fungi are of chitin compounds instead of cellulose; a group fungi known as cryptomycota lack chitinous cell walls. ), the pore fungi (e.g., the bracket fungi, which grow shelflike on trees, and an edible type called tuckahoe), and the puffballs puffballor smokeball,fungus in which the aboveground portion is typically a stemless brownish sac with an opening at the top through which issues the dustlike mass of ripe spores.
Mycelium as seen under a log. Mycelium is the vegetative part of a fungus, consisting of a mass of branching, thread-like hyphae. The mass of hyphae is sometimes called shiro, especially within the fairy ring fungi. Mycelium, like fungus, can be considered a mass noun, a word that can be either singular or plural. The term mycelia, though, like fungi, is often used as the preferred plural form. Sclerotia are compact or hard masses of mycelium.
Noun. 1. hypha-any of the threadlike filaments forming the mycelium of a fungus. conidiophore-a specialized fungal hypha that produces conidia. mycelium-the vegetative part of a fungus consisting of a mass of branching threadlike hyphae. 
Conidia on conidiophores. A hypha (plural hyphae, from Greek ὑφή, huphḗ, “web”) is a long, branching filamentous structure of a fungus, oomycete, or actinobacterium. In most fungi, hyphae are the main mode of vegetative growth, and are collectively called a mycelium. In most fungi, hyphae are divided into cells by internal cross-walls called septa (singular septum). Septa are usually perforated by pores large enough for ribosomes, mitochondria and sometimes nuclei to flow between cells.
1 Most fungi grow as tubular filaments called hyphae. 2  An interwoven mass of hyphae is called a mycelium. 3  The walls of hyphae are often strengthened with chitin, a polymer of N-acetylglucosamine. 1 Some fungi are parasitic, causing serious damage to their host (a few examples are given below). 2  Some fungi are both. 3  Metarhizium robertsii is a soil fungus that lives symbiotically with plants but parasitizes (and kills) soil insects. 4  Its hyphae penetrate both the roots of the plant and the corpse of the insect.