Signs and symptoms of exposure. Exposure to formaldehyde in the air can irritate the eyes, nose and throat. It can also cause symptoms such as headaches, fatigue, and dizziness. Since there can be other causes for at least some of these symptoms and signs, you may first want to speak with your doctor before taking further steps.
As a gas, formaldehyde is colorless and has a characteristic pungent, irritating odor. Upon condensation, the gas converts to various other forms of formaldehyde (with different chemical formulas) that are of more practical value. Formaldehyde is a naturally-occurring organic compound with the formula CH 2 O. It is the simplest aldehyde and is also known by its systematic name methanal. The common name of this substance comes from its similarity and relation to formic acid
As discussed above, formaldehyde can induce several symptoms, such as watery eyes, runny nose, burning sensations in the eyes, nose, and throat, and headaches. These symptoms may also occur because of the common cold, the flu, or other pollutants that may be present in the indoor air. Formaldehyde exposure can cause a variety of symptoms and potential adverse health effects. A. person’s ability to smell a chemical odor, such as formaldehyde, does not always mean that the. levels of the chemical are of concern or will cause an adverse health effect.
Formaldehyde is an important precursor to many other materials and chemical compounds. In 1996, the installed capacity for the production of formaldehyde was estimated to be 8.7 million tons per year. It is mainly used in the product of industrial resins, e.g., for particle board and coatings. Formaldehyde is a naturally-occurring organic compound with the formula CH 2 O. It is the simplest aldehyde and is also known by its systematic name methanal. The common name of this substance comes from its similarity and relation to formic acid
Combustion Gases. Formaldehyde. Characteristics. Formaldehyde is an organic chemical that is very prevalent in our environment. It has colorless gas with a pungent odor from a family of gases called aldehydes. Airborne concentrations of formaldehyde above 0.1ppm can cause irritation of the respiratory tract (2). Sources. Sources of formaldehyde in the home include building and insulating materials, smoking, household products, and the use of un-vented, fuel-burning appliances, like gas stoves or kerosene space heaters.
Exposure to formaldehyde has been shown to cause cancer in laboratory test animals. Exposure to relatively high amounts of formaldehyde in medical and occupational settings has been linked to some types of cancer in humans, but the effect of exposure to small amounts is less clear. It can also be used as a preservative in some foods and in products, such as antiseptics, medicines, and cosmetics. Sometimes, although formaldehyde is not used, substances that release formaldehyde are. These have been found in cosmetics, soaps, shampoos, lotions and sunscreens, and cleaning products
Formaldehyde is a colourless gas that is emitted mainly from household products and building materials. Low levels of formaldehyde in indoor air are actually very common. When found at high levels in air, it can be detected by a sharp smell. High concentrations of formaldehyde can cause irritation of the eyes, nose and throat and can worsen asthma symptoms in children and infants.
Formaldehyde can be toxic, allergenic, and carcinogenic. Because formaldehyde resins are used in many construction materials it is one of the more common indoor air pollutants. At concentrations above 0.1 ppm in air formaldehyde can irritate the eyes and mucous membranes, resulting in watery eyes. Formaldehyde is a naturally-occurring organic compound with the formula CH 2 O. It is the simplest aldehyde and is also known by its systematic name methanal. The common name of this substance comes from its similarity and relation to formic acid