truncated (trʌŋˈkeɪtɪd). ( 1 mathematics) (of a cone, pyramid, prism, etc) having an apex or end removed by a plane intersection that is usually nonparallel to the base. 1 (
Your last sentence is truncated. More like truncated at this point. A (truncated or folded) normal distribution is completely inappropriate here. It's still too high-it should be $1056 (truncated). I tried resizing btrfs recently, my file came out truncated :(. Heads up, your link is broken; it got truncated.
The leg (1) has the form of a truncated cone, the broad end of which is attached to (After Balfour.) (After Balfour.) FIG. The buildings stand upon raised terraces, or upon truncated pyramids, approached by broad stairways, usually of cut stone. The molten sulphur accumulates on the sole, whence it is from time to time run out into a square stone receptacle, from which it is ladled into damp poplar-wood moulds and so brought into the shape of truncated cones weighing 110 to 130 lb each.
1 Truncated order-4 pentagonal tiling: In geometry, the truncated order-4 pentagonal tiling is a uniform tiling of the hyperbolic plane. 2  It has Schlaefli schläfli symbol of,t0{1,5}. 3  4 a half. 4  Symmetry truncated-order 4 hexagonal: Tiling in, geometry the truncated-order 4 hexagonal tiling is a uniform tiling of the hyperbolic.  plane 1 John H. Conway, 2  Truncated cuboctahedron: 180° rotational symmetry), the truncated cuboctahedron is a zonohedron. 3  Alternate interchangeable names are: Truncated cuboctahedron (Johannes Kepler). 4  Truncated octagonal tiling: In geometry, the Truncated octagonal tiling is a semiregular
truncated. adj. 1. (Mathematics) maths (of a cone, pyramid, prism, etc) having an apex or end removed by a plane intersection that is usually nonparallel to the base. 2. (Chemistry) (of a crystal) having edges or corners cut off. adj. 1. Having the apex cut off and replaced by a plane, especially one parallel to the base. Used of a cone or pyramid. 2. Lacking one or more syllables, especially in the final foot; catalectic.
I like reading, as truncated. In my book, this is not a truncated sentence. I believe that a truncated sentence is one that has been cut short (truncated) causing ambiguity as to its meaning. For example: I like reading more than John [does]. 
The tanks are nearly cylindrical in form and have a truncated cone fixed in the centre, as shown at C, fig. The Aegithognathae, meant to comprise the passeres, woodpeckers and swifts, &c., are really schizognathous but with a vomer which is broadly truncated in front. The molten sulphur accumulates on the sole, whence it is from time to time run out into a square stone receptacle, from which it is ladled into damp poplar-wood moulds and so brought into the shape of truncated cones weighing 110 to 130 lb each.
1 Truncated heptagonal tiling: In geometry, the truncated heptagonal tiling is a semiregular tiling of the hyperbolic plane. 2  There is one triangle and two tetradecagons on each vertex. 3  Truncated cube: In geometry, the truncated cube, or truncated hexahedron, is an Archimedean solid. 1 John H. Conway, 2  Truncated cuboctahedron: 180° rotational symmetry), the truncated cuboctahedron is a zonohedron. 3  Alternate interchangeable names are: Truncated cuboctahedron (Johannes Kepler). 4  Truncated octagonal tiling: In geometry, the Truncated oc
(9 words).  It is easier to understand. The reader doesn’t have to wait until the end of the sentence to understand “who did what to whom.”  In “truncated” passive voice, the reader has to decide who’s doing the action in the verb since the writer doesn’t say.  The plaintiff’s rights were violated. 
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. adjective. The definition of truncated is cut short. An example of truncated used as an adjective is the phrase a truncated shirt which means a shirt that has had its sleeves cut off. adjective. 1  Having the apex cut off and replaced by a plane, especially one parallel to the base. 2  Used of a cone or pyramid. 3  Lacking one or more syllables, especially in the final foot; catalectic. 4  Shortened or reduced: a truncated version of the story.