Slaves had no rights because back when they were around, they weren't considered human, but something below human to justify their slavery. Slaves were considered to be like h … orses and dogs, those don't have rights have either so why would slaves. 3 people found this useful. They had masters. There were some cases in which slaves were treated with more kindness and respect, but were still slaves and had no right to vote or any other rights not given to them by the whites.
Introduction. Slavery in America began when the first African slaves were brought to the North American colony of Jamestown, Virginia, in 1619, to aid in the production of such lucrative crops as tobacco. Though the Union victory freed the nation’s 4 million slaves, the legacy of slavery continued to influence American history, from the tumultuous years of Reconstruction (1865-77) to the civil rights movement that emerged in the 1960s, a century after emancipation.
In simple words 1870 slaves, as such, never did get the right to vote. But at the close of the Civil War they were all formally freed under the 13th Amendment to the Constitut … ion (Bill of Rights), which abolished slavery in 1865. They had masters. There were some cases in which slaves were treated with more kindness and respect, but were still slaves and had no right to vote or any other rights not given to them by the whites.
Slavery in Africa has not only existed throughout the continent for many centuries, but still continues in the current day in some countries. Systems of servitude and slavery were common in parts of the continent, as they were in much of the ancient world. Slavery in historical Africa was practiced in many different forms and some of these do not clearly fit the definitions of slavery elsewhere in the world. Debt slavery, enslavement of war captives, military slavery, and criminal slavery were all practiced in various parts of Africa
Slaves had no constitutional rights; they could not testify in court against a white person; they could not leave the plantation without permission. Slaves often found themselves rented out, used as prizes in lotteries, or as wagers in card games and horse races. Separation from family and friends was probably the greatest fear a black person in slavery faced.
Slaves had no rights because back when they were around, they weren't considered human, but something below human to justify their slavery. Yes. But mostly in the north of the country. They were a minor group though. Because Chile wasn't a rich country like Peru, slaves were too expensive to buy and families that … could afford them usually have them as house slaves more than fields slaves, except in the north.
When Americans think of African-Americans in the Deep South before the Civil War, the first image that invariably comes to mind is one of slavery. However, many African-Americans were able to secure their freedom and live in a state of semi-freedom even before slavery was abolished by war. Free blacks lived in all parts of the United States, but the majority lived amid slavery in the American South
— From a slave song. No issue has more scarred our country nor had more long-term effects than slavery. When we celebrate American freedom, we must also be mindful of the long and painful struggle to share in those freedoms that faced and continue to face generations of African Americans. To understand the present, we must look to the past. Slaves often found themselves rented out, used as prizes in lotteries, or as wagers in card games and horse races. Separation from family and friends was probably the greatest fear a black person in slavery faced.
I’m with you that slaves didn’t have very many rights and what rights they had really were up to their masters and the other white people that touched their lives… but it is true that they had some legal rights. Of course those rights were nothing like that of even a white woman in antebellum America. Women’s rights, Children’s rights, Workers rights, Native American rights, ect ect. as we think of them today did not exist. Realistically slaves had less rights than all the other groups of that time period. So what ever rights they were perceived to have had was only a token gesture with no real meaning.