The interfering with trade or commerce by violence or threats. Related Terms: Deliberate Ignorance, Fraud. Racketeering is an organized conspiracy to commit the crimes of extortion or coercion, or attempts to commit extortion or coercion.... 
rack·et·eer. n. A person who engages in an illegal business or other organized illegal activities. intr.v. rack·et·eered, rack·et·eer·ing, rack·et·eers. To engage in an illegal business or other organized illegal activities. 
Racketeering Law & Legal Definition. Racketeering is the federal crime of conspiring to organize to commit crimes, especially on an ongoing basis as part of an organized crime operation. 
Racketeering. Set of illegal activities aimed at commercial profit that may be disguised as legitimate business deals. Common examples include fraud, extortion, bribery, and actual or threatened violence. 
rack·et·eer. n. A person who engages in an illegal business or other organized illegal activities. intr.v. rack·et·eered, rack·et·eer·ing, rack·et·eers. To engage in an illegal business or other organized illegal activities. 
racketeering. n. the federal crime of conspiring to organize to commit crimes, particularly as a regular business (organized crime or the Mafia). 
DEFINITION of 'Racketeering'. Racketeering refers to criminal activity that is performed to benefit an organization such as a crime syndicate. Examples of racketeering activity include extortion, money laundering, loan sharking, obstruction of justice and bribery. 
racketeering noun [U]. › the ​act or ​practice of making ​money through ​dishonest or ​illegal ​activities: He now ​faces 20 ​years in ​prison after ​pleading ​guilty to ​conspiracy and racketeering ​charges. racketeering noun [U]. › making ​money from a ​dishonest or ​illegal ​activity: They have been ​accused of racketeering. racketeer noun [C] uk /-ˈtɪər/ us /-ˈtɪr/ disapproving › someone who makes ​money from a ​dishonest or ​illegal ​activity.
racketeering noun [U]. › the ​act or ​practice of making ​money through ​dishonest or ​illegal ​activities: He now ​faces 20 ​years in ​prison after ​pleading ​guilty to ​conspiracy and racketeering ​charges. (Definition of racketeering from the Cambridge Academic Content Dictionary © Cambridge University Press). 
by FreeAdvice staff. RICO stands for the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (18 U.S.C. § 1961), a law that increases the severity of penalties for crimes performed in conjunction with organized crime. 