In linguistics, a morpheme is the smallest grammatical unit in a language. In other words, it is the smallest meaningful unit of a language. The field of study dedicated to morphemes is called morphology. A morpheme is not identical to a word, and the principal difference between the two is that a morpheme may or may not stand alone, whereas a word, by definition, is freestanding. 1 Inflectional morphemes modify a verb 's tense or a noun's number without affecting the word's meaning or class. 2  Examples of applying inflectional morphemes to words are adding-s to the root dog to form dogs and adding-ed to wait to form waited. 3  In English, there are eight inflections.
Full Definition of MORPHEME. : a distinctive collocation of phonemes (as the free form pin or the bound form-s of pins) having no smaller meaningful parts. — mor·phe·mic \mȯr-ˈfē-mik\ adjective. — mor·phe·mi·cal·ly \-mi-k(ə-)lē\ adverb. See morpheme defined for English-language learners. 
Bound morphemes cannot stand alone with meaning. Morphemes are comprised of two separate classes called (a) bases (or roots) and (b) affixes. A base, or root is a morpheme in a word that gives the word its principle meaning. An example of a free base morpheme is woman in the word womanly. An example of a bound base morpheme is-sent in the word dissent. Affixes. Definition. A morpheme is a short segment of language that meets three basic criteria: 1. It is a word or a part of a word that has meaning. 2. It cannot be divided into smaller meaningful segments without changing its meaning or leaving a meaningless remainder. 3.
1 Derivational morphemes, when combined with a root, change either the semantic meaning or part of speech of the affected word. 2  For example, in the word happiness, the addition of the bound morpheme-ness to the root happy changes the word from an adjective (happy) to a noun (happiness). 1 Inflectional morphemes modify a verb 's tense or a noun's number without affecting the word's meaning or class. 2  Examples of applying inflectional morphemes to words are adding-s to the root dog to form dogs and adding-ed to wait to form waited. 3  In English, there are eight inflections.
Morphemes. Morphemes are form/meaning pairings (where form = distinctive string of sounds, and meaning includes both meaning in the usual sense, and function). Morphemes can be roots or affixes, depending on whether they are the main part or dependent part of a word (cf. Roots vs. Affixes) 
A morpheme is the smallest meaningful unit in the grammar of a language. Current approaches to morphology conceive of morphemes as rules involving the linguistic context, rather than as isolated pieces of linguistic matter. They acknowledge that. 1  meaning may be directly linked to suprasegmental phonological units, such as tone or stress.
Definition. A morpheme is a meaningful linguistic unit consisting of a word (such as dog) or a word element (such as the-s at the end of dogs) that can't be divided into smaller meaningful parts. Adjective: morphemic. Morphemes are the smallest units of meaning in a language. They are commonly classified as either free morphemes (which can occur as separate words) or bound morphemes (which can't stand alone as words). Many words in English are made up of a single free morpheme
Non-is an example of a prefix, or a morpheme that precedes a base morpheme. Perish is an example of a base morpheme, as it gives the word its essential meaning. -Able is an example of a suffix, or a morpheme that follows a base morpheme. When we can take a morpheme independently and use it as a stand-alone word in a sentence, it is known as a base. As the chart indicates above, these can be nouns, verbs, adjectives, conjunctions, prepositions, or determiners. We also classify a morpheme that can function as a stand-alone word as free.