These large-scale agriculture methods are not labor intensive but they are expensive. For instance, in North America, it takes about 2 pounds of oil to produce one pound of wheat. In contrast, horticulture is labor intensive but not capital intensive. Horticulture is only economically practical as long as the population density remains low and land for new fields is readily available.
DEFINITION of 'Labor Intensive'. A process or industry that requires a large amount of labor to produce its goods or services. The degree of labor intensity is typically measured in proportion to the amount of capital required to produce the goods/services; the higher the proportion of labor costs required, the more labor intensive the business. Labor intensive industries include restaurants, hotels, agriculture and mining. Advances in technology and worker productivity have moved some industries away from labor-intensive status, but many still remain.
Horticulture is small scale, low intensity farming. This subsistence pattern involves at least part time planting and tending of domesticated food plants. Pigs, chickens, or other relatively small domesticated animals are often raised for food and prestige. For instance, in North America, it takes about 2 pounds of oil to produce one pound of wheat. In contrast, horticulture is labor intensive but not capital intensive. Horticulture is only economically practical as long as the population density remains low and land for new fields is readily available.
Horticulture is the branch of agriculture that deals with the art, science, technology, and business of vegetable garden plant growing. 1 Turf management includes all aspects of the production and maintenance of turf grass for sports, leisure use or amenity use. 2  Floriculture includes the production and marketing of floral crops. 3  Landscape horticulture includes the production, marketing and maintenance of landscape plants.
Intensive farming or intensive agriculture also known as industrial agriculture is characterized by a low fallow ratio and higher use of inputs such as capital and labour per unit land area. This is in contrast to traditional agriculture in which the inputs per unit land are lower. Intensive farms are widespread in developed nations and increasingly prevalent worldwide. Most of the meat, dairy, eggs, fruits and vegetables available in supermarkets are produced by such farms. Smaller intensive farms usually include higher inputs of labor and more often use sustainable intensive methods. The farming practices commonly found on such farms are referred to as appropriate technology
In large-scale societies today, agriculture has become highly efficient, requiring much fewer people to produce the food for everyone else. This is particularly true of mechanized grain farming and ranching. Technological advances in farm production now occur frequently and are spread world wide within a few years. This required a radical change in the concept of ownership. In most small-scale societies with less intensive subsistence patterns, economically important properties, such as land and water wells, usually are not owned in the sense that we think of ownership today.
Intensive Agriculture. Intensive agriculture is the primary subsistence pattern of large-scale, populous societies. It results in much more food being produced per acre compared to other subsistence patterns. This required a radical change in the concept of ownership. In most small-scale societies with less intensive subsistence patterns, economically important properties, such as land and water wells, usually are not owned in the sense that we think of ownership today.
The present Israeli horticulture. In a country of dense population and little arable land, intensive horticulture was emphasized at the expense of field crops. Today, horticultural produce constitutes half of the total agricultural production. Past experience teaches that industries, organization and firms do not last for ever. 
They use pointed sticks, hoes, or other hand tools to make holes in the soil to plant their seeds, tubers, and cuttings. This is a labor intensive but not capital intensive form of farming. Pesticides and herbicides are not used by traditional subsistence horticulturalists. For instance, in North America, it takes about 2 pounds of oil to produce one pound of wheat. In contrast, horticulture is labor intensive but not capital intensive. Horticulture is only economically practical as long as the population density remains low and land for new fields is readily available.