Read on to find out what they mean when they say they will create an “elevation” drawing for your project…. An “elevation” is a drawing that shows the front or side of something. A floor plan, by contrast, shows a space from above – as if you are looking down on the room from the ceiling. Thus, you see the tops of everything, but you cannot view the front, side or back of an object. 
Elevation, or geometric height, is mainly used when referring to points on the Earth 's surface, while altitude or geopotential height is used for points above the surface, such as an aircraft in flight or a spacecraft in orbit, and depth is used for points below the surface. A topographical map is the main type of map used to depict elevation, often through use of contour lines. In a Geographic Information System (GIS), digital elevation models (DEM) are commonly used to represent the surface (topography) of a place, through a raster (grid) dataset of elevations.
2. : a dancer's or an athlete's leap and seeming suspension in the air; also: the ability to achieve an elevation. 3. : an act or instance of elevating. 4. : something that is elevated: as a: an elevated place b: a swelling especially on the skin. 5. : the quality or state of being elevated. Definition of ELEVATION for Kids. 1. : height especially above sea level: altitude. 2. : a raised place (as a hill). 3. : the act of raising: the condition of being raised.
For other uses, see Elevation (disambiguation) . Elevation histogram of the surface of the Earth – approximately 71% of the Earth's surface is covered with water. A sign at 8000 feet (2438 meters) in the San Bernardino Mountains. The elevation of a geographic location is its height above or below a fixed reference point, most commonly a reference geoid, a mathematical model of the Earth's sea level as an equipotential gravitational surface (see Geodetic system, vertical datum). A topographical map is the main type of map used to depict elevation, often through use of contour lines. In a Geographic Information System (GIS), digital elevation models (DEM) are commonly used to represent the surface (topography) of a place, through a raster (grid) dataset of elevations.
: a dancer's or an athlete's leap and seeming suspension in the air; also: the ability to achieve an elevation. 3. : an act or instance of elevating. 4. : something that is elevated: as a: an elevated place b: a swelling especially on the skin. Definition of ELEVATION for Kids. 1. : height especially above sea level: altitude. 2. : a raised place (as a hill). 3. : the act of raising: the condition of being raised.
b. The degree of height reached when such a jump is executed. Synonyms: elevation, altitude, height. These nouns denote the distance of something above a point of reference such as the horizon: a city at an elevation of 3,000 feet above sea level; flying at an altitude of 1 mile; grew to a height of 6 feet. An elevated place or position: The hill is the highest elevation around here. 4. Loftiness or dignity, as of thought or feeling: a passage noted for its elevation of style. 5. A scale drawing of the side, front, or rear of a structure.
Front Elevation. A front elevation design is basically a part of as scenic design which highlights the scenic element or the entire set as seen from the front view with or without measurements. Side elevations of a home plan are similar to those of front elevations, but are drawn from each side of the home which is drawn in a straight-on view. Architects label these elevations by right and left side, determined as if you were facing the home.
Synonym Discussion of ELEVATION. height, altitude, elevation mean vertical distance either between the top and bottom of something or between a base and something above it. Definition of ELEVATION for Kids. 1. : height especially above sea level: altitude. 2. : a raised place (as a hill). 3. : the act of raising: the condition of being raised.
altitude, height-elevation especially above sea level or above the earth's surface; the altitude gave her a headache. ground level, grade-the height of the ground on which something stands; the base of the tower was below grade. water level-the level of the surface of a body of water. An elevated place or position: The hill is the highest elevation around here. 4. Loftiness or dignity, as of thought or feeling: a passage noted for its elevation of style. 5. A scale drawing of the side, front, or rear of a structure.