Sorrel is delicious used as an herb or as a salad green -- its tartness is really refreshing. A traditional way to enjoy sorrel is cooked into a sauce and served with fish, lending a lemony flavor without the use of lemon. It's also great cooked into soups or stews. Baby sorrel greens can be tossed into mixed salads. Lemons and other citrus fruits aren't the only things that have a tart, acidic flavor -- in fact, there's a green herb that does and it's got a lot of punch for such a small, frilly thing. Its name is sorrel (sor-uhl or saw-ruhl).
Sorrel is a slender herbaceous perennial plant about 60 centimetres (24 in) high, with roots that run deep into the ground, as well as juicy stems and edible, arrow-shaped (sagittate) leaves. The leaves, when consumed raw, taste like a sour green apple candy. Common sorrel or garden sorrel (Rumex acetosa), often simply called sorrel, is a perennial herb in the family Polygonaceae. Other names for sorrel include spinach dock and narrow-leaved dock. It is a common plant in grassland habitats and is cultivated as a garden herb or leaf vegetable (pot herb)
Photo Credit: Photo © Molly Watson. Sorrel has a remarkably bright and even tart flavor. Many people liken its taste to lemons, which makes sense since there is a real note of sourness in there. It can be tricky to work with, since that lemony flavor is mixed with a deep greens and grassy flavor. 
Sorrel is a small edible green plant from the Polygonaceae family, which also includes buckwheat and rhubarb. The French translation of sour (“sorrel”) is spot-on: These leaves have an intense lemony tang. In Vietnamese cuisine, sorrel leaves are known as rau thom (fresh herb), and it’s called gowkemeat in Scotland. For our purposes, though, let's just call it sorrel.
Sorrel is used for reducing sudden and ongoing pain and swelling (inflammation) of the nasal passages and respiratory tract, for treating bacterial infections along with conventional medicines, and for increasing urine flow (as a diuretic). Sorrel is also an ingredient in the herbal cancer treatment Essiac. In combination with gentian root, European elder flower, verbena, and cowslip flower, sorrel is used orally for maintaining healthy sinuses and treating sinusitis.
All of your sorrel questions, answered. Imagine a trendy green that can grow on your windowsill, has a super-long season, and is the missing piece to unlocking your greatest spring fish, and you've pretty much come up with sorrel. The French translation of sour (“sorrel”) is spot-on: These leaves have an intense lemony tang. In Vietnamese cuisine, sorrel leaves are known as rau thom (fresh herb), and it’s called gowkemeat in Scotland. For our purposes, though, let's just call it sorrel.
Sorrel is a hardy perennial herb belonging to the buckwheat family that is cultivated as a garden herb or leaf vegetable. Sorrel has grown wild for centuries in Asia, Europe and North America. Sorrel is often found in cream soups, fish stuffings, omelets, breads, salads, sauces and cole slaw. Younger sorrel is often cooked and served like spinach, or eaten raw in salads. Older, more acidic sorrel is good in cream soups where the addition of sour cream is said to reduce the tart overtones.
The name sorrel is derived from the Germanic word sur, and the old French word surele, both meaning sour. It is an ancient herb used by Egyptians and Europeans to impart acidity to foods. It is also used in teas. Tough meats can be wrapped in sorrel leaves to tenderize them before cooking. It is cooked for a minimum time to preserve its fresh flavor. To prevent sorrel from blackening and developing a metallic taste, only stainless steel knives and noniron pots are used.
Sorrel is a fascinating perennial herb that is used all around the world and is cultivated for a wide variety of uses. Although it is primarily grown for use in food, due to its sharp, tangy taste, it also has a vast array of health benefits associated with it. Skin Conditions: The leaves of sorrel have been used in two ways to treat skin conditions. The leaves, when dried as an herb can be eaten, and this has been connected with a reduction in ringworm and itchy, dry skin.