Westmead is a suburb of Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. Westmead is 26 kilometres (16 mi) west of the Sydney central business district, in the local government areas of the City of Parramatta and the City of Holroyd; and is part of the Greater Western Sydney region. Westmead is bounded by the Parramatta River, Toongabbie Creek and Finlayson Creek in the north. On the east it is bounded by Parramatta Park, the Parramatta Golf Club, Amos Street and Good Street. The southern boundary is the Great Western Highway.
Public transport to The Children's Hospital at Westmead is easy, with direct bus and train services, and connecting bus, train and ferry services from the city, Parramatta, Strathfield, Penrith and the North Shore. For timetables and trip planning, call 131 500 or visit www.131500.info. Westmead is about ten minutes drive from Parramatta, and about 50 minutes from the city. Come via Hawkesbury Road, Westmead. Parent and visitor car parking is located off Hainsworth Street, entrance on roundabout. There is a parking fee, and concessions are available for parents of long-term patients.
2 3 How to use this timetable • Go to the route map at the back of this timetable and find the two timing points your bus stop is located between. • Then find these two timing points on the timetable. • Your bus is scheduled to arrive between the times shown for these points.For exampleIf your bus stop is located between timing points A and B on the route map, then your bus is scheduled to arrive between the times shown for A and B in the timetable. Your Bus timetable Our bus services take you around the Sydney metropolitan area and further afield, including Newcastle, the Lower Hunter, the Central Coast, the Blue Mountains, Lithgow and the Illawarra. If you have any questions about getting around on buses, just ask.
Westmead railway station is on the North Shore, Northern & Western Line of the Sydney Trains network. The Western railway line from Parramatta to Blacktown was built through the suburb in 1861. A railway station at Westmead was opened in April 1893 after a successful petition by local residents. Westmead is bounded by the Parramatta River, Toongabbie Creek and Finlayson Creek in the north. On the east it is bounded by Parramatta Park, the Parramatta Golf Club, Amos Street and Good Street. The southern boundary is the Great Western Highway.
Bus transitway service Westmead from both Parramatta and The Hills District via the North-West T-way. On the day of the 2011 census, 39% of employed people traveled to work on public transport and 43% by car (either as driver or as passenger). Westmead is bounded by the Parramatta River, Toongabbie Creek and Finlayson Creek in the north. On the east it is bounded by Parramatta Park, the Parramatta Golf Club, Amos Street and Good Street. The southern boundary is the Great Western Highway.
Bus routes in Sydney, Australia are generally numbered with three digits, the first digit referring to the region in which the bus route primarily operates. Services in the Inner West district and part of the St George area of Sydney are numbered in the 400 series, and connect these suburbs and the central business district. There are 70 routes numbered 400 through 499.
Westmead station is on the Western Line and can be accessed by taking a train west from Parramatta (towards Blacktown, Penrith, or Richmond). Harris Park and Granville are also on the Western Line and can be accessed by taking a train east from Parramatta (towards the city). Parramatta is a western district of Sydney, a city in its own right within the Sydney Metropolitan Area and the second oldest European settlement on the Australian mainland.
If an accessible bus is not available for a scheduled route, we apologise in advance for the inconvenience. Your Bus timetable Our bus services take you around the Sydney metropolitan area and further afield, including Newcastle, the Lower Hunter, the Central Coast, the Blue Mountains, Lithgow and the Illawarra. If you have any questions about getting around on buses, just ask.
818 Merrylands to Westmead Bus Timetablevia Hilltop, South Wentworthville and Wentworthville. 1 What’s inside Your Bus timetable ................................................................. 1Your ticketing options ........................................................... Your Bus timetable Our bus services take you around the Sydney metropolitan area and further afield, including Newcastle, the Lower Hunter, the Central Coast, the Blue Mountains, Lithgow and the Illawarra. If you have any questions about getting around on buses, just ask.
The Children's Hospital at Westmead is located at the corner of Hawkesbury Road and Hainsworth Street, Westmead. Come via Hawkesbury Road, Westmead. The Hospital is only minutes from the major centre of Parramatta, and about 35 minutes by train from Sydney city. Westmead is about ten minutes drive from Parramatta, and about 50 minutes from the city. Come via Hawkesbury Road, Westmead. Parent and visitor car parking is located off Hainsworth Street, entrance on roundabout. There is a parking fee, and concessions are available for parents of long-term patients.