In general, applicants must have 150 credit hours to earn the CPA license. This can include both a bachelor's and master's degree, with an average of 120 and 30 credit hours, respectively. States often have required courses that candidates must take to meet education qualifications. Exam. Once a candidate meets her state's requirements, she can sit for the CPA exam. The exam consists of four parts. These include business environment and concepts, regulation, financial accounting and reporting and auditing and attestation.
Most states require aspiring CPAs to complete at least 150 semester hours of study to become licensed. Students generally accrue 120 hours via a traditional bachelor's degree program. To earn the required 150 hours, some schools offer the option of a combined 5-year bachelor's and master's degree program in accounting. 
Certified public accountants have three requirements before earning their credentials: education, experience and an exam. All applicants must have a specific education to achieve this professional certification. It is impossible to achieve the CPA license without an approved degree. Exam. Once a candidate meets her state's requirements, she can sit for the CPA exam. The exam consists of four parts. These include business environment and concepts, regulation, financial accounting and reporting and auditing and attestation.
For example, a bachelor's degree may need 36 credit hours of accounting courses and 12 credit hours in general business courses to meet basic education requirements. An accounting degree is not necessary to become a CPA if a candidate can prove he meets the requisite requirements for accounting coursework. Exam. Once a candidate meets her state's requirements, she can sit for the CPA exam. The exam consists of four parts. These include business environment and concepts, regulation, financial accounting and reporting and auditing and attestation.
Instructions. Get experience. If you have had no experience in the accounting field, get some. Volunteer to do the accounting for your PTA, church or club. You can list volunteer work on your resume. Any experience counts. Educate yourself. You don't have to have a degree to become an accountant, but you do have to know the basics. 
You can become a CPA without an accounting degree. In many states you don't need a BA or BS in accounting to sit for the CPA exam. You just need a college degree and a certain amount of course work in accounting. I am a CPA and have an undergrad in English. In order to sit for the exam I had to have 24 hours in business and 24 in accounting. It made more sense for me to just get a master's degree in accounting. If you have to get that many credits you might as well get a degree for it
New Hampshire. You can sit for the CPA Exam with a Bachelor’s degree, as long as it includes at least 24 semester hours in business, including at least 12 semester hours in accounting. However, effective July 1, 2014, candidates will need 150 hours of education to be licensed. Colorado. You can sit for the CPA Exam with a Bachelor’s degree, as long as 27 of those semester hours are in accounting courses (three of those in audit) and 21 semester hours are in business courses. Effective July 1, 2015, Colorado will also require 150 hours of education to sit for the CPA Exam. Delaware
*Qualifying for a CPA license requires a bachelor’s degree at minimum and a total of 150 semester hours of college credit to include coursework in accounting, business and ethics. 