EHR vs EMR – What’s the Difference? EMR: The electronic record of health-related information on an individual that is created, gathered, managed, and consulted by licensed clinicians and staff from a single organization who are involved in the individual’s health and care. The Google search trend data indicates an increased usage of EHR, but EMR remains more prevalent. The same is true when we look at the usage of terminology by software vendors. In a review of 300 clinical records systems, 207 vendors market their software as an EMR, while 59 use the term EHR.
EMR is an abbreviation for Electronic Medical Records. An EMR is a Healthcare IT product that is meant to facilitate the physician in documenting clinical workflows with preci … sion. EMR is an abbreviation for Electronic Medical Record. The EMRs are used by physicians and medical practices to record clinical documentation with more precision. EMRs are desi … gned to facilitate the physicians to document accurate clinical information in mere seconds
The EMR (electronic medical record) is used to capture and manage patient data. Unlike the CPR (computerized patient record), information in an EMR is acquired in electronic format, rather being scanned in from paper-based records. An EMR includes the results of a PACS system (images and reports) and other information such as lab results, latest vaccinations, and so on. EMR is an abbreviation for Electronic Medical Record. The EMRs are used by physicians and medical practices to record clinical documentation with more precision.
EMR is an abbreviation to Electronic Medical Records. These are digital records, used doctors to streamline their clinical documentation in an efficient and effective manner. … The EMRs allow the doctors to not only save time but also record the details with precision in mere seconds. EMR is an abbreviation for Electronic Medical Record. The EMRs are used by physicians and medical practices to record clinical documentation with more precision.
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved. 
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved. 
EMR is an abbreviation to Electronic Medical Records. These are digital records, used doctors to streamline their clinical documentation in an efficient and effective manner. The EMRs allow the doctors to not only save time but also record the details with precision in mere seconds. EMR is an abbreviation for Electronic Medical Record. The EMRs are used by physicians and medical practices to record clinical documentation with more precision. EMRs are desi … gned to facilitate the physicians to document accurate clinical informat
The NAHIT has produced the following definitions for EMR and EHR: EMR: The electronic record of health-related information on an individual that is created, gathered, managed, and consulted by licensed clinicians and staff from a single organization who are involved in the individual’s health and care. The Google search trend data indicates an increased usage of EHR, but EMR remains more prevalent. The same is true when we look at the usage of terminology by software vendors. In a review of 300 clinical records systems, 207 vendors market their software as an EMR, while 59 use the term EHR.