The Mulberry Tree. Twenty-Seventh Sunday of the Year. Hb 1:2-3; 2:2-4; Ps 95:1-2; 6-9; 2 Tm 1:6-8, 13-14; Lk 17:5-10. Today’s Gospel image of a mulberry tree being uprooted and planted in the sea is one of the most astonishing conceptions in the Bible. The first reading assures us that a true prophetic vision does not disappoint and will press on to its fulfillment.
Greek Symolism. The mulberry tree is featured in the works of Ovid and in Shakespeare's A Midsummer Night's Dream in the tale of Pyramus and Thisbe. These two young lovers were forbidden to wed, so they arranged to meet secretly under a mulberry tree. The mulberry tree thrives in Asia, Europe and the Middle East. Its berries are edible, it's supple wood is good for carving and its bark and leaves are used to make paper.
Heb. bakah, to weep; rendered Baca (R.V., weeping) in Ps. 84:6. The plural form of the Hebrew bekaim is rendered mulberry trees in 2 Sam. 5:23, 24 and 1 Chr. 14:14, 15. The tree here alluded to was probably the aspen or trembling poplar. We know with certainty that the black poplar, the aspen, and the Lombardy poplar grew in Palestine. 
One of the tiniest seeds to plant is the mustard seed. It is the size of a little dot like this dot at the end of my sentence. If you have just that much faith, you could ask for a sycamore tree, which is a mulberry tree, to be pulled up by the roots and planted in the sea. The point of what Jesus was saying was that you would not expect to be able to move a mulberry tree into the sea. Yet faith like the tiny mustard seed could even move a tree by the roots into the sea. Maybe there is something impossible in your life that you need done.
The mulberry tree, or Morus nigra, ... Mulberry Tree Symbolism. The mulberry tree thrives in Asia, Europe and the Middle East. Its berries are edible, it's supple wood is good for carving and its bark and leaves are used to make paper.
Full Definition of MULBERRY. 1. : any of a genus (Morus of the family Moraceae, the mulberry family) of trees with an edible usually purple multiple fruit that is an aggregate of juicy one-seeded drupes; also: the fruit. 2. : a dark purple or purplish black. : any of a genus (Morus of the family Moraceae, the mulberry family) of trees with an edible usually purple fruit that includes one (M. nigra) with a fruit whose juice is sometimes used for its medicinal properti
• MULBERRY TREE (noun). The noun MULBERRY TREE has 1 sense: 1. any of several trees of the genus Morus having edible fruit that resembles the blackberry. Familiarity information: MULBERRY TREE used as a noun is very rare.
The trees can be monoecious or dioecious. The mulberry fruit is a multiple fruit, 2–3 cm (0.79–1.18 in) long. Immature fruits are white, green, or pale yellow. In most species, the fruits turn pink and then red while ripening, then dark purple or black, and have a sweet flavor when fully ripe. Morus, a genus of flowering plants in the family Moraceae, comprises 10–16 species of deciduous trees commonly known as mulberries growing wild and under cultivation in many temperate world regions.
Meronyms (parts of mulberry tree): mulberry (sweet usually dark purple blackberry-like fruit of any of several mulberry trees of the genus Morus). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of mulberry tree): Morus alba; white mulberry (Asiatic mulberry with white to pale red fruit; leaves used to feed silkworms). The noun MULBERRY TREE has 1 sense: 1. any of several trees of the genus Morus having edible fruit that resembles the blackberry. Familiarity information: MULBERRY TREE used as a noun is very rare.
The mulberry tree, or Morus nigra, features in backgrounds against which ancient biblical battles rage and biblical kings receive God's instructions to persevere against enemies. Biblical authors of Hebrew and Christian scriptures refer to the mulberry tree and its fruit. 