A Synthetic CDO (collateralized debt obligation) is a variation of a CDO that generally uses credit default swaps and other derivatives to obtain its investment goals. In technical terms, the synthetic CDO is a form of collateralized debt obligation (CDO) in which the underlying credit exposures are taken using a credit default swap rather than by having a vehicle buy assets such as bonds. Synthetic CDOs can either be single tranche CDOs or fully distributed CDOs.
A collateralized debt obligation (CDO) is a type of structured asset-backed security (ABS). CDOs vary in structure and underlying assets, but the basic principle is the same. A CDO is a type of asset-backed security. To create a CDO, a corporate entity is constructed to hold assets as collateral backing packages of cash flows which are sold to investors. A sequence in constructing a CDO is:
CDO is a financial term that stands for “collateralized debt obligation”. CDO is an investment security that is backed—or secured—by a pool of other bonds, loans, or assets. The CDO a type of structured asset-backed security and is traded in public security markets. CDOs do not typically deal with mortgages—rather a CMO, or collateralized mortgages obligation does. The highest risk trenches are the first to pay out any defaults on the CDO. Because of the increased risk, these CDOs often have either the highest interest rates, or the lowest cost. CDOs are created by corporate entities to gain funds that are need immediately.
DEFINITION of 'Collateralized Debt Obligation-CDO'. A structured financial product that pools together cash flow-generating assets and repackages this asset pool into discrete tranches that can be sold to investors. What is the difference between a collateralized debt obligation (CDO) and an asset ... An asset-backed security (ABS) is a security created by pooling non-mortgage assets that is then resold to investors. A collateralized ...
Unlike the CDO, which is backed by a pool of bonds, loans and other credit instruments; CDO-squared arrangements are backed by CDO tranches. CDO-squared allows the banks to resell the credit risk that they have taken in CDOs. RELATED TERMS. A collateralized debt obligation squared (CDO-squared) is backed by a pool of collateralized debt obligation (CDO) tranches.
DEFINITION of 'Collateralized Debt Obligation Squared-CDO-Squared'. A special purpose vehicle (SPV) with securitization payments in the form of tranches. A collateralized debt obligation squared (CDO-squared) is backed by a pool of collateralized debt obligation (CDO) tranches.
A collateralized debt obligation (CDO) is so-called because the pooled assets – such as mortgages, bonds and loans – are essentially debt obligations that serve as collateral for the CDO. The tranches in a CDO vary substantially in their risk profile. What is the difference between a collateralized debt obligation (CDO) and an asset ... An asset-backed security (ABS) is a security created by pooling non-mortgage assets that is then resold to investors. A collateralized ...
CDO version 1.2 for Exchange, replaces Active Messaging 1.1. CDO 1.2 is currently installed when you install Exchange 5.5 server or the Outlook Web Access component found on the Exchange 5.5 server CD. CDO 1.21 library is installed with Microsoft Outlook 98 Corporate Workgroup installation. Currently, there are two versions of CDO. CDO version 1.2 and 1.21 for Exchange and CDO version 1.2 for Microsoft Windows NT Server (NTS). This document describes each library and helps the developer determine which is best suited to their objective.