Previously, these mammals were all over Mexico and Alaska as well as Far East and western shores of Hudson Bay. Grizzly bears are now found all throughout western Canada, Alaska, some places of northwestern United States, such as Washington, Wyoming, Idaho, Montana, and Grand Teton National Parks. These species inhabit across Great Plains as well as southwestern states. Grizzly bears are typically solitary animals while most of the young bears can be found in groups with their mothers. They are mostly found at the freshwater streams, marshes, coastal regions, lakes, rivers, and ponds where there is abundant of salmon spawn. The juveniles at birth normally weigh around 500 g (1 lb).
I’m going to share some of the most fantastic grizzly bear facts for kids. The grizzly bear (Ursus arctos horribilis) also called silvertip bear inhabits all throughout North America, is a subspecies of brown bear. Brown bears are usually found in the western side of North America. Grizzly bears are typically solitary animals while most of the young bears can be found in groups with their mothers. They are mostly found at the freshwater streams, marshes, coastal regions, lakes, rivers, and ponds where there is abundant of salmon spawn. The juveniles at birth normally weigh around 500 g (1 lb).
Most bears are found in North America and Eurasia. Grizzlies are found on the Alaskan and northwestern Canadian tundra. They are considered a subspecies of the brown bear. Most grizzly bears are found in the northwestern part of North America. The grizzly bear's habitat can include forests, mountains, meadows, and valleys. Grizzly bears have amazing physical strength and are surprisingly fast over short distances. 
Historically, there were around 50,000 grizzly bears in North America. Today, there are an estimated 1,800 grizzly bears remaining in five populations in the lower 48 states. Most of these bears are located in the Northern Continental Divide Population (including Glacier National Park) and the Yellowstone Population.
Habitat & Range. Grizzly bears are found many different habitats, from dense forests to subalpine meadows, open plains and arctic tundra. In North America, grizzly bears are found in western Canada, Alaska, Wyoming, Montana, Idaho and a potentially a small population in Washington. Today, there are an estimated 1,800 grizzly bears remaining in five populations in the lower 48 states. Most of these bears are located in the Northern Continental Divide Population (including Glacier National Park) and the Yellowstone Population.
The American black bear is the most commonly seen bear in North America and it has the largest geographic range. Black bears can be found as far south as central Mexico and as far north as northern Alaska and most of Canada. Polar bears are the largest of the three bears found in North America. They range from about seven hundred pounds up to about fifteen hundred pounds. Not only are they the largest bear found in North America they are also the most dangerous to humans.
The grizzly is just one subspecies, or type, of brown bear (Ursus arctos). While grizzlies are confined to northwestern North America, other types of brown bears are found in Europe, northern Asia and Japan. The species as a whole is found in fairly healthy numbers worldwide (200,000 or more). 
Habitat: Grizzly bears can be found in woodlands, forests, alpine meadows and prairies. In many habitats they prefer riparian areas along rivers and streams. Range: Grizzly bears once roamed throughout the entire western U.S. south into Mexico including the Great Plains and along rivers in desert habitats. Diet: Grizzly bears are omnivores. The most commonly eaten plants are the fleshy roots of some plants, fruits, berries, grasses, and forbs. If grizzly bears are on the hunt, their prey can include fish (especially salmon), rodents like ground squirrels, carrion and hoofed animals like moose, elk, caribou, and deer.
The grizzly bear (Ursus arctos ssp.) is any North American subspecies of brown bear, including the mainland grizzly (Ursus arctos horribilis), Kodiak bear (U. a. middendorffi), peninsular grizzly (U. a. gyas), and the recently extinct California grizzly (U. a. californicus †) and Mexican grizzly bear (U. a. nelsoni †). Scientists do not use the name grizzly bear but call it the North American brown bear See brown bear for a discussion of brown bears outside of North America (in Asia, Africa, and Europe).