[ekwaˈðor]), officially the Republic of Ecuador (Spanish: Republica república Del, ecuador which literally translates As republic of The ), equator is a representative democratic republic in Northwestern South, america bordered By colombia on the, North peru on the east and, south and The Pacific ocean to the. west 
Sales of the fruits provide a livelihood for farmers, transporters, and vendors of the region. The staple equator fruit is the banana. It comes in many forms: the least tasty big and long one like Chiquita bananas of the U.S., my favorite stocky fat bananas, and the tastiest tiny banana that's the size of a finger. Dried jack fruit chips are also popular and tasty. The spiky durian fruit is similar in size but not in taste. It is one of Lonely Planet Cambodia's five WE DARE YOU foods. Laura and I both tried it in Phnom Penh and it ranked as the worst WE DARE YOU food.
For each fruit there is a separate page with an introduction, some basic information, a number of photos, and sometimes one or more recipes (fruit salads and other culinary experiments). Most fruits on my website are culinary fruits, but also some others (e.g. coffee) have been included in the list. Some tropical fruits are also grown in warmer areas outside the tropics, while many of the temperate fruits can also be found in the tropics, especially in cooler mountain or hill areas. There are hundreds of edible tropical fruits.
Oranges are a kind of citrus fruit. The common orange is nearly round in shape with an orange skin and orange flesh. Oranges and tangerines are both citrus fruit. Citrus fruits have thick, leathery, pitted, skins or rinds. A citrus fruit has a pulpy, juicy inner flesh. Lemons grow only in warm subtropical and tropical climates. A lemon is a kind of citrus fruit. Citrus fruit has a pitted rind and a pulpy, juicy center. The pulp is usually tart or sour.Lemons trees need a lot of sunshine, rain and rich soil. Lemon trees are grown in groves such as the one in the picture to the right.
Strictly speaking the word tropical refers to the tropics, which is the area of earth centered on the equator and limited in the North by the Tropic of Cancer and in the south by the Tropic of Capricorn. This tropical zone stretches from 23.4 º North latitude to 23.4 º South latitude. Some tropical fruits are also grown in warmer areas outside the tropics, while many of the temperate fruits can also be found in the tropics, especially in cooler mountain or hill areas. There are hundreds of edible tropical fruits.
The term fruit can have different meanings. In botanical biology a fruit is the ripened ovary of a flowering plant, which contains the seeds. Plants use fruits to disseminate their seeds. But when we talk about fruits as food, we limit ourselves to those fruits that are sweet and fleshy. Some tropical fruits are also grown in warmer areas outside the tropics, while many of the temperate fruits can also be found in the tropics, especially in cooler mountain or hill areas. There are hundreds of edible tropical fruits.
Ecuador has a wonderful variety of fruit from the warm tropical and subtropical lowlands and even the cooler sierra region produces several different fruits from the fertile volcanic soil. Fruits available in Ecuador, what they are and how to eat them, fruit recipes and information on some of the more unusual fruits of Ecuador.
In fact, the knife that I used to open the jack fruit still is not clean from the event and hence, has not been used again. Jack fruit seeds are often sold out of its natural protective shell in plastic containers, a pleasant way to enjoy it. Dried jack fruit chips are also popular and tasty. The spiky durian fruit is similar in size but not in taste. It is one of Lonely Planet Cambodia's five WE DARE YOU foods. Laura and I both tried it in Phnom Penh and it ranked as the worst WE DARE YOU food.
The rambutan, Nephelium lappaceum, is a fruit considered exotic to people outside of its native range. To people of Malaysia, Thailand, the Phillippines, Vietnam, Borneo, and other countries of this region, the rambutan is a relatively common fruit the same way an apple is common to many people in cooler climates. This may change for the rambutan over time as availability and distribution improve.
The equator has so many lush fruits that I've only posted those that I found and those that were uncommon in the U.S. At every market, one could find piles of mangos, pineapples, bananas, and oranges. Their amazing taste make me long for a better process in the U.S. to deliver fruits ripened by nature. Dried jack fruit chips are also popular and tasty. The spiky durian fruit is similar in size but not in taste. It is one of Lonely Planet Cambodia's five WE DARE YOU foods. Laura and I both tried it in Phnom Penh and it ranked as the worst WE DARE YOU food.