Ventriculomegaly in Children. At Boston Children’s Hospital, we’ve already helped many infants who have been diagnosed with fetal ventriculomegaly, a condition in which the fluid-filled spaces in the brain (ventricles) appear larger than normal on a prenatal ultrasound. 
Fetal Ventriculomegaly. Fetal ventriculomegaly is a congenital finding that affects the brain. The contents of the brain consist primarily of brain tissue, blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). In a normal fetal brain, the ventricles are less than 10 mm wide. When the ventricles are between 10mm and 15mm wide, the baby is diagnosed with mild ventriculomegaly. If the ventricles are more than 15 mm wide, the enlargement is considered severe.
Treatments for Ventriculomegaly. If your child has mildly enlarged brain ventricles or ventriculomegaly without other complications, the condition may resolve on its own. When hydrocephalus is more severe or progresses, timely treatment is important. Symptoms of Ventriculomegaly. After birth, mild ventriculomegaly may not produce any symptoms or signs. If the condition is severe or caused by worsening hydrocephalus (CSF buildup in the brain), your baby may have one or more of these symptoms: 1  Full or bulging soft spot (fontanel) on the newborn's skull.
Ventriculomegaly is also known to be associated with other malformations such as agenesis of the corpus callosum, spina bifida, and heart defects. Fetuses with both isolated ventriculomegaly and with other anomalies have an increased risk of having a chromosomal abnormality, including that of Down Syndrome. Although evaluation of lateral ventricles dimensions is decisive for establishing a diagnosis of ventriculomegaly, the shape of the ventricular system, including that of the frontal horns, is also important.
Fetal cerebral ventriculomegaly is a relatively common finding on second trimester obstetrical ultrasound examination. It is clinically important because it can be caused by a variety of disorders that result in neurological, motor, and/or cognitive impairment. 
Fetal ventriculomegaly is a condition in which a fetus's brain ventricles (cavities) are abnormally enlarged. Ventriculomegaly may be mild or severe. Symptoms and treatment vary by its severity. Symptoms of Ventriculomegaly. After birth, mild ventriculomegaly may not produce any symptoms or signs. If the condition is severe or caused by worsening hydrocephalus (CSF buildup in the brain), your baby may have one or more of these symptoms: 1  Full or bulging soft spot (fontanel) on the newborn's skull.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Ventriculomegaly is a brain condition that occurs when the lateral ventricles become dilated. In fetuses, the most common definition uses a width of the atrium of the lateral ventricle of greater than 10 mm. This occurs in around 1% of pregnancies. Although evaluation of lateral ventricles dimensions is decisive for establishing a diagnosis of ventriculomegaly, the shape of the ventricular system, including that of the frontal horns, is also important.
Ventriculomegaly (medical condition): A rare condition where the normal flow of cerebrospinal fluid... more ». See also: Hydrocephalus : » Introduction: Hydrocephalus. » Symptoms of Hydrocephalus. » Causes of Hydrocephalus. » Tests for Hydrocephalus. » Treatments for Hydrocephalus. Ventriculomegaly: Ventriculomegaly is listed as a type of (or associated with) the following medical conditions in our database: 1  Brain conditions. 2  Nervous system conditions. 3  Head
Ventriculomegaly is a condition in which the lateral ventricles of the brain (the fluid-filled spaces) appear larger than normal. When ventriculomegaly exceeds 15 mm, there are often other abnormalities present, such as neural tube defects, Chiari malformations, Dandy Walker syndrome, agenesis of the corpus callosum, hydrocephalus or certain genetic syndromes.