Risk assessment value. Leukocytes in urine are detected by the action of esterase, present in granulocytes. A high number of leukocytes present in urine usually indicates inflammatory disease. Specimens that screen positive for urine leukocyte esterase are confirmed by digital imaging. 
Leukocyte esterase (LE) is a urine test for the presence of white blood cells and other abnormalities associated with infection. The combination of the LE test with the urinary nitrite test provides an excellent screen for establishing the presence of a urinary tract infection (UTI). A urine sample that tests positive for both nitrite and leukocyte esterase should be cultured for pathogenic bacteria.
A positive finding of the enzyme leukocyte esterase in urinalysis indicates the presence of white blood cells in the urine. This normally suggests inflammation of some sort, often from a urinary tract infection. Causes of Positive Results. Although a urinary tract infection is the most common cause of leukocyte esterase in urinalysis some other and rarer causes for the positive result with a negative microorganism culture do exist.
Usually normal: Leukocyte esterase released by lysed neutrophils and macrophages is a surrogate marker of the presence of white blood cells (WBCs). Leukocyte esterase suggests that there are white blood cells in the urine. Trace means few WBC produced small amount of leucocyte esterase ...Read more. 
White blood cells in the urine usually indicate a urinary tract infection. The leukocyte esterase (LE) test detects esterase, an enzyme released by white blood cells. Positive test results are clinically significant. The LE test is also used to screen for gonorrhea and for amniotic fluid infections. The combination of the LE test with the urinary nitrite test provides an excellent screen for establishing the presence of a urinary tract infection (UTI). A urine sample that tests positive for both nitrite and leukocyte esterase should be cultured for pathogenic bacteria.
1 Red or white blood cells. 2  Blood cells aren't found in urine normally. 3  Inflammation, disease, or injury to the kidneys, ureters, bladder, or urethra can cause blood in urine. 4  Strenuous exercise, such as running a marathon, can also cause blood in the urine. 5  White blood cells may be a sign of infection or kidney disease. 1 White blood cells may be a sign of infection or kidney disease. 2  Casts. 3  Some types of kidney disease can cause plugs of material (called casts) to form in tiny tubes in the kidneys. 4  The casts then get flushed out in the urine. 5  Casts can be made of red or white blood cells, waxy or fatty substances, or protein.
Leukocyte esterase is a urine test to look for white blood cells and other signs associated with infection. No special preparation is necessary for this test. The test will involve only normal urination, and there is no discomfort. Leukocyte esterase is a screening test used to detect a substance that suggests there are white blood cells in the urine, which may mean you have a urinary tract infection. This test is part of the routine urine dipstick test
Why the Test is Performed. Leukocyte esterase is a screening test used to detect a substance that suggests there are white blood cells in the urine, which may mean you have a urinary tract infection. This test is part of the routine urine dipstick test. No special preparation is necessary for this test. The test will involve only normal urination, and there is no discomfort. Leukocyte esterase is a screening test used to detect a substance that suggests there are white blood cells in the urine, which may mean you have a urinary tract infection.
Urinalysis. A test of a urine sample that can reveal many problems of the urinary tract and other body systems. The sample may be observed for color, cloudiness, concentration; signs of drug use; chemical composition, including glucose; the presence of protein, blood cells, or germs; or other signs of disease.