Diagnosing Tinnitus. A hearing test should be the first step in an audiological evaluation of tinnitus, since about 90 percent of tinnitus cases occur with hearing loss. Starting with a thorough medical exam, the proper diagnosis and evaluation of tinnitus are both critical for successful tinnitus management.
A hearing test should be the first step in an audiological evaluation of tinnitus, since about 90 percent of tinnitus cases occur with hearing loss. Starting with a thorough medical exam, the proper diagnosis and evaluation of tinnitus are both critical for successful tinnitus management.
Ear disorders. Hearing loss from exposure to loud noise: Acute hearing depends on the microscopic endings of the hearing nerve in the inner ear. Exposure to loud noise can injure these nerve endings and result in hearing loss. Hearing damage from noise exposure is considered to be the leading cause of tinnitus.
The results from the hearing tests are often displayed in the form of an audiogram. Based on the audiogram, among other things, the hearing health care professional can tell whether or not you are suffering from hearing loss and, if so, determine how serious it is.
However, around 10% of tinnitus patients do have a normal audiogram, i.e. their hearing thresholds are in the normal range and they are thus not considered to have cochlear damage.
In most cases, tinnitus is associated with hearing loss, but around 10% of tinnitus patients do have a normal audiogram. Using a computer model of tinnitus, we could further demonstrate that one common mechanism can explain the development of tinnitus after ‘normal’ and ‘hidden’ hearing loss.
Tinnitus is not a disease, but a symptom that can result from a wide range of underlying causes: prolonged exposure to abnormally loud sounds in the ear canal, ear infections, foreign objects in the ear, nasal allergies that prevent (or induce) fluid drain, or wax build-up.
This simple model can account for a great variety of findings from studies on tinnitus in humans and animals. However, around 10% of tinnitus patients do have a normal audiogram, i.e. their hearing thresholds are in the normal range and they are thus not considered to have cochlear damage.