Treatment. On average, it takes six weeks for a MCL injury to heal. The initial treatment for most grade 1, 2 or 3 MCL tears focuses on reducing the pain and inflammation in the knee while immobilizing the knee to keep it stabilized.
Recovery times differ depending on the severity of the injury: 1  A minor, or grade 1, MCL tear can take from a few days to a week and a half to heal sufficiently for you to return to normal activities, including sports. 2  A grade 2 tear can take from two to four weeks to heal.
Medial collateral ligament (MCL) injuries stretch or tear a ligament in the knee. According to UK Health Care, the medial collateral ligament keeps the thigh bone and leg bone in alignment along the side of the knee. This is the structure that prevents knees from buckling.
1 A minor, or grade 1, MCL tear can take from a few days to a week and a half to heal sufficiently for you to return to normal activities, including sports. 2  A grade 2 tear can take from two to four weeks to heal.
Grade 2 MCL Tear. 1) What is it: Many fibres are damaged but the ligament is still intact. 2) Symptoms: There may be medial knee pain with a moderate amount of swelling and bruising (which appear in the first 48 hours), and the knee may feel slightly unstable. 3) Treatment: PRICE first.
1 A grade 2 tear can take from two to four weeks to heal. 2  A grade 3 tear usually takes from four to eight weeks to heal, unless it is associated with damage to the ACL, in which case the recovery time may be longer.
Tearing the MCL is a common sports injury. Healing depends on the degree of sprain and can take six weeks or more. A MCL injury requires medical treatment for proper care. You should discuss treatment protocols with your doctor.
Place an ice pack over the knee. This is important immediately after the injury to reduce pain and swelling. With an MCL injury, you will experience pain and tenderness on the inner side of the knee. Wrap the ice in a towel and apply for 10 to 15 minutes to the inner knee every two or three hours after the injury.