1 Even if your contract doesn't specify a notice timeline, you want to shoot for 2-3 weeks as a courtesy to your employer. 2  Fewer than two weeks and your employer probably doesn't have an adequate replacement; more than three weeks and your employer will be wondering why you're still around.
Or give your two weeks notice a week into your manager's month-long vacation. Similarly, don't expect references if you give your employer a healthy month's notice you're leaving, only to spend three of those weeks burning vacation leave because you know you're over your payout cap.
That said, if you have to cut down your 8 weeks to say 6 weeks, I’d suggest taking 1 week off your notice period to current employer and 1 week off of moving time instead of the full 2 weeks off your moving time. That is a pretty difficult move, especially with minimal relocation benefits.
Definition: When an employee resigns from a job, two weeks’ notice is a traditional, standard amount of time that the employee agrees to continue working for his or current employer. At the end of the two week work period, the employee is no longer an employee of the firm.
Generally, it is considered professional conduct to give 2 weeks of notice. If you are in a particularly important position in the company, they may ask you for 3-4 weeks.
Dear Itchin' to Quit, You've stumbled on one of the working world's most hotly debated questions, congratulations! Frankly, there's no consensus on how much notice you should give an employer that you're leaving for another position.
Not every employer will have the same expectations, but the length of your notice period normally depends on how long you’ve been in your job and what your contract says. If you've been employed for one month or more, the minimum notice period required by law is one week.
Still, at most companies, the amount of notice you're expected to give generally depends on two major factors: what you do, and how senior you are in your role. Oh, and it also matters how much you want to leave with your contacts intact and your bridges unburned.