Confidence votes 112. Your BIOLOGICAL AGE is the age that most normal people would be when they have a body and mind similar to yours. Compare this to your CHRONOLOGICAL AGE, which is the number of years you have been alive. There is a free biological age test at www.growyouthful.com It asks you about 140 questions, and then makes an estimate of your body's real age.
Functional age is defined as a combination of chronological, biological, and psychological ages. What is happening is instead of focusing on one aspect at a time, we are summarizing them to create a more holistic picture of a person. Functional age would give you the clearest understanding of a person. 
Your biological age is how time and your lifestyle have affected your organs and cells compared to other people of your chronological age. A far better and more accurate tool for gauging your biological age is the Biological Age Test. You simply attach a USB pulse wave sensor to your earlobe or a finger, sit comfortably, relax and follow the simple instructions on your screen.
This is why it is important to know your biological age. If you know where the problems exist, you can initiate the lifestyle modifications necessary to improve your health and increase your vitality. People are living longer these days and the best case scenario is to live a healthy, long life. A far better and more accurate tool for gauging your biological age is the Biological Age Test. You simply attach a USB pulse wave sensor to your earlobe or a finger, sit comfortably, relax and follow the simple instructions on your screen.
One's present position in regard to the probability of survival. Determination of biological age requires assessment and measurement of the functional capacities of the life-limiting organ system, e.g., the cardiovascular system. The functional age is more important than the. , because in a majority of cases, the functional age is higher than the. due to a several factors such as stress, said Dr Mohammed Gamil Elnoamani, senior geriatrician and head of medical affairs at the Dubai Health Authority (DHA).
Biological age-why it is so important to know. Biological Age monitor can help you become younger! The Biological Age test gives you an accurate measure of your true biological age, the direction of your ageing trend (older or younger), as well as the momentum or speed of that trend. Now Biological Age Test is a simple to use tool that can be used at any computer by anybody to assess biological age. Person will get a detailed report containing person’s current biological age, biological age trend and a progress from the last test.
While age is a stage in the biological maturing of the organism, a process controlled by genetic factors, it is also a concrete result and stage of the social-psychological development of the personality and is determined by the conditions of life, training, and upbringing. 
You can also estimate your biological age with a relatively simple method that, though crude, may provide you with some ideas about what’s going on inside of you and what you need to fix. This simple measure is your height. Let’s start with memory. Your psychological age is a direct function of how well you can use your brain to handle the cognitive load you put on yourself. Perhaps you feel that your memory is slipping compared to how it used to be. You go into a room and forget what you were looking for.
Health reviser's Biological Age test is a sensitive indicator of a health disorders, that allows you to make an early decision, so that hopefully health issues never become a problem. In conclusion: The aging process is something you can have an influence on because lifestyle factors play such an important part. A far better and more accurate tool for gauging your biological age is the Biological Age Test. You simply attach a USB pulse wave sensor to your earlobe or a finger, sit comfortably, relax and follow the simple instructions on your screen.