Analysis. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, more commonly known as the stimulus bill, has been featured in more than 130 TV ads this year, according to a database maintained by Kantar Media’s Campaign Media Analysis Group. 
1 The Recovery Act, by itself, saved or created about 6 million job-years, where a job-year is defined as one full-time job for one year. 2  This translates to an average of 1.6 million jobs a year for four years through the end of 2012. Specifically, the Report finds: 1 
The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act is the most sweeping economic recovery package in our history, said President Obama, noting it will create or save 3.3 million jobs over the next two years. We have begun the essential work of keeping the American Dream alive in our time.. The Act is an extraordinary response to promote economic recovery and growth, and includes measures to modernize our nation's infrastructure, enhance energy independence, expand educational opportunities, preserve and improve affordable health care, provide tax relief, and protect those in greatest need.
Five years ago Monday, President Barack Obama visited the Denver Museum of Nature and Science to sign the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act, his $800 billion stimulus bill. At the time, the U.S. economy was losing 800,000 jobs a month. 
For information on energy-efficient products, visit the U.S. Department of Energy's EnergyStar website; not all Energy Star products qualify for the tax incentive. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act provides tax incentives for individuals to invest in energy-efficient products. Residential Energy Property Credit (Section 1121): ARRA increased the energy tax credit for homeowners who make energy efficient improvements to their existing homes. Questions and Answers. If you have questions about the energy incentives for individuals, these questions and answers might help. Related Items: 1  IR-2009-44, Energy-Saving Steps This Year May Result in Tax Savings Next Year. 2  Fact Sheet 2009-10, Energy Provisions of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.
Congress passed the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act on February 17, 2009. President Obama signed the act into law four days later. 
Follow @TIME. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009  President Obama's $787 billion stimulus  has been marketed as a jobs bill, and that's how it's been judged. The White House says it has saved or created about 3 million jobs, helping avoid a depression and end a recession. 
The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Recovery Act) was signed into law by President Obama on February 17th, 2009. As of September 30, 2010, the Department of Education's entire $97.4 billion in Recovery Act appropriation has been awarded.
President Obama signs the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act at the Denver Museum of Nature and Science in Denver, Colorado, on February 17, 2009. Photo by Jim Watson/AFP/Getty Images. Republican leaders in Congress took note of the anniversary, too, but argued that the bill spent too much for too little in return. RANCHO MIRAGE, Calif. – The costly $787 billion spending bill that President Barack Obama signed into law soon after taking office boosted the economy and helped avoid another Great Depression, the White House said in a status report on Monday’s fifth anniversary of the law’s enactment.
Overview. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Recovery Act) was signed into law by President Obama on February 17, 2009. The Act is an extraordinary response to promote economic recovery and growth, and includes measures to modernize our nation's infrastructure, enhance energy independence, expand educational opportunities, preserve and improve affordable health care, provide tax relief, and protect those in greatest need.