Located in Possession Sound between South Whidbey Island and the mainland city of Everett, Hat Island is a quaint island community with limited walk-on ferry access to and from the Everett Marina. While there are some permanent residents on this island, many Hat Island waterfront real estate is used as second homes. 
Gedney Island seen from the Mukilteo Lighthouse. Gedney Island. Gedney Island (aka Hat Island) is an island in Possession Sound in Snohomish County, Washington, US. The island lies in Possession Sound between the mainland city of Everett, Washington, and the southern part of Whidbey Island. Gedney Island has a land area of 1.768 km 2 (436.8 acres) and a population of 26 people was reported as of the 2000 census.
Hat Island, WA Land for Sale. Find Land for sale in Hat Island, Washington. Find homes for sale and view Hat Island, Washington real estate listings. Search our complete database of Hat Island, WA real estate listings for houses, condos, land, and building lots. Features include photos, property description, beds, baths, maps and virtual tours. Use Homes and Land to find the realty listing information you need to buy or sell a home in Hat Island.
Hat Island, Washington is located in Snohomish County. Hat Island is a rural community with a population of 26. The median household income is $75,227. In Hat Island, 65% of residents are married, and families with children reside in 29% of the households.
Hat Island is a census-designated place (CDP) in Snohomish County, Washington, United States. The population was 41 at the 2010 census. The CDP occupies an island in Possession Sound called Hat Island, also known as Gedney Island. There is currently one walk-on ferry named the Hat Express which transports walk-on passengers to and from the island. The maximum capacity of the ferry is 88 passengers.
Location. Hat Island (A.K.A. Gedney Island) is a small private island, located in Puget Sound, in Snohomish County Washington. The island lies west of Everett, between Whidbey Island and Camano Island, and is the permanent or vacation home to approximately 260 Hat Islander families. Street Map of Hat Island.
Hat Island-area historical earthquake activity is near Washington state average. It is 134% greater than the overall U.S. average. On 4/13/1949 at 19:55:42, a magnitude 7.0 (7.0 UK, Class: Major, Intensity: VIII-XII) earthquake occurred 53.5 miles away from the city center, causing $80,000,000 total damage. 
Homes for Sale Hat Island WA. Browse through our real estate listings in Hat Island, WA. Browse photos, watch virtual tours and create a Favorites account to save, organize and share your favorite properties.