The purpose of inflammation is to eliminate the initial cause of cell injury, clear out necrotic cells and tissues damaged from the original insult and the inflammatory process, and to initiate tissue repair. The classical signs of acute inflammation are pain, heat, redness, swelling, and loss of function. Prolonged inflammation, known as chronic inflammation, leads to a progressive shift in the type of cells present at the site of inflammation and is characterized by simultaneous destruction and healing of the tissue from the inflammatory process.
Myocarditis is a disease marked by the inflammation of heart muscle, the “myocardium,” which is the muscular layer of the heart wall. This muscle is responsible for contracting and releasing to pump blood in and out of the heart and to the rest of the body. Inflammation is a normal bodily response to any sort of wound or infection. Imagine when you cut your finger. Normally, within a short time, the tissue around the cut swells up and turns red—classic signs of inflammation.
When myocarditis is more serious, it leads to weakening of the heart muscle. Myocarditis can then cause heart failure (with symptoms of shortness of breath, fatigue, fluid accumulation in the lungs, etc.) as well as heart rhythm irregularities from inflammation and/or scarring of the electrical system of the heart. The most common cause of myocarditis is infection of the heart muscle by a virus. The virus invades the heart muscle to cause local inflammation.
It used to be thought that cholesterol alone was the major marker for atherosclerosis. This is no longer the case. Inflammation, not cholesterol, has been identified as a significant factor in the development of coronary artery disease, plaque instability and plaque rupture. 
Myocarditis or inflammatory cardiomyopathy is inflammation of heart muscle. The consequences of myocarditis vary widely. It can cause a mild disease without any symptoms that resolves itself, or it may cause chest pain, heart failure, or sudden death. The signs and symptoms associated with myocarditis are varied, and relate either to the actual inflammation of the myocardium or to the weakness of the heart muscle that is secondary to the inflammation.
Myocarditis can be caused by a variety of infections and conditions such as viruses, sarcoidosis, and immune diseases (such as systemic lupus, etc.), pregnancy, and others. The most common cause of myocarditis is infection of the heart muscle by a virus. The virus invades the heart muscle to cause local inflammation.
Understand the risks of inflammation. Although it is not proven that inflammation causes cardiovascular disease, inflammation is common for heart disease and stroke patients and is thought to be a sign or atherogenic response. Bhatt added, This combination of plaque and blood clots causes the majority of heart attacks and certain types of stroke, if the blood clot obstructs blood flow to the heart or brain.. An artery to the heart that’s blocked causes a heart attack.
Most allergy and asthma sufferers are all too familiar with inflammation, but you may not realize that inflammation also plays a key role in arthritis, diabetes, heart disease, irritable bowel syndrome, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and many others. Inflammation is the activation of the immune system in response to infection, irritation, or injury. Characterized by an influx of white blood cells, redness, heat, swelling, pain, and dysfunction of the organs involved, inflammation has different names when it appears in different parts of the body.
Myocarditis is a disease marked by the inflammation of heart muscle. Learn about the symptoms, diagnosis, and treatment of myocarditis. Inflammation is a normal bodily response to any sort of wound or infection. Imagine when you cut your finger. Normally, within a short time, the tissue around the cut swells up and turns red—classic signs of inflammation.
Inflammation (Latin, inflammatio) is part of the complex biological response of body tissues to harmful stimuli, such as pathogens, damaged cells, or irritants. Inflammation is a protective response that involves immune cells, blood vessels, and molecular mediators. Prolonged inflammation, known as chronic inflammation, leads to a progressive shift in the type of cells present at the site of inflammation and is characterized by simultaneous destruction and healing of the tissue from the inflammatory process.