In Dutch Duits means German, where the Germans call themselves Deutsche. Around 1290 in the northern and eastern part of the Netherlands the word was: duutsc and as the Frisian people (living in the North) spoke a language much more alike English, the English adapted dutch from Frisian duutsc. Later duutsc became the Dutch word for our eastern neighbors: Duits (German).
The Dutch are the people who live in the Netherlands, or those that come from the Netherlands. Often the Netherlands is called Holland, but this is only part of the Netherlands. 
“Low Dutch” referred to people from the flatlands in what is now the Netherlands. Within the Holy Roman Empire, the word “Netherlands” was used to describe people from the low-lying (nether) region (land). The people where called in the region Doutzen Dietzen Deutzen and some other names, but thats why Germans call there language Deutsch, and call themselve Deutscher and its also why the language of the Netherlands is called in English “Dutch”.
In Old English dutch simply meant “people or nation.” (This also explains why Germany is called Deutschland in German.) Over time, English-speaking people used the word Dutch to describe people from both the Netherlands and Germany. The people where called in the region Doutzen Dietzen Deutzen and some other names, but thats why Germans call there language Deutsch, and call themselve Deutscher and its also why the language of the Netherlands is called in English “Dutch”.
This linguistic confusion is why Americans call the Pennsylvania Dutch Dutch even though they're Germans. To review: this country is the Netherlands, its people are Dutch, they speak Dutch. There is no country called Holland, but there are provinces of North and South Holland. 
The people of the Netherlands call themselves: 'Nederlanders' in dutch language. In English we call ourselves: Dutch. Or sometimes we use 'Dutchmen' to refer to dutch people … . The word 'Dutch' comes from the word 'Diets' which was how the Netherlands were referred to in ancient times. The English then translated 'Diets' to 'Dutch'. Therefore we are called 'Dutch people'. In the past one of the languages used in the Netherlands was 'Duutsch' also used in Germany. For the English were in that time the Netherlands and the Germans the same so we were all called 'Dutch'.
(At that point in time, in the early 1500s, the Netherlands and parts of Germany, along with Belgium and Luxembourg, were all part of the Holy Roman Empire.) Specifically the phrase “High Dutch” referred to people from the mountainous area of what is now southern Germany. The people where called in the region Doutzen Dietzen Deutzen and some other names, but thats why Germans call there language Deutsch, and call themselve Deutscher and its also why the language of the Netherlands is called in English “Dutch”.
Report Abuse. The Netherlands is often called Holland, which is formally incorrect as North and South Holland are merely two of its twelve provinces (see terminology of the Netherlands). The word Dutch is used to refer to the people, the language, and anything appertaining to the Netherlands. 
The Netherlands is also called Holland. Holland was a very rich area in the western part of the Netherlands, thus causing people to be mistaken. Some people who do not live in the western part of the Netherlands do not like it when people call the country Holland. To the east is the country Germany and to the south is the country Belgium. The Netherlands is one of the countries that started the European Union. People who live in the Netherlands are called  Dutch .