Kittens should be first vaccinated at 6 to 8 weeks and then every 4 weeks until they are 16 weeks or older. For most kittens this will mean 3 vaccinations. A kitten will not be fully protected until 7-10 days after the last vaccination. Under specific circumstances we may advise an alternative regime. 3. The cat was not healthy at the time of vaccination – ‘stress’ can prevent a good response to vaccination. For this reason your vet will give your cat a physical examination before a vaccination is given. 4. The cat may also be pre-infected with the ‘cat flu’ virus and incubating the disease.
Yesterday, my cats got their annual rabies and distemper vaccination (no leukemia vaccination b/c they are strictly indoors). While I was there, I petted the cats in the vet's adoption area (one of which was blind in one eye from an ulcer). Yes, many cats have reactions to vaccines. If your vet used climydia vaccine in the FVRCP, that may be the culprit as it often causes eye issues so I would leave it out next time. Indoor kitties do not need FELV shots. I will be here so please let me know how your baby is doing.
Regular vaccinations can keep your pet healthy. As much as your kitty may despite and fear them, regular vaccines can help keep her healthy, happy and quite possibly free of potentially dangerous infectious illnesses -- phew. However, although quite rare, some cats may experience malaise and negative side effects as a result of shots.
Report Abuse. Cats frequently get sick after getting rabies vaccinations. Call your vet immediately and describe what is going on with your cat. You may have to bring the cat back for a thorough exam. Going off his food after 4 days doesn't sound normal. Call your vet ASAP. 
Best Answer: A cat acting lethargic after receiving vaccinations is a normal situation that occurs in a lot of cats. If she is still acting this way after twenty-four hours, I would suggest you contact your veterinarian just to make sure everything is alright. Report Abuse. that can happen as a reaction to the shots. if it does not go away in 24 hours or less take it back to the vet. A 5 year old cat does not need booster shots for distemper all the time, if ever again. The rabies is the only one to keep up to date, unless you board the cat when you go out of town.
Possibly Minor Side Effects. The ASPCA reports that while most cats do not feel sick after getting shots, some mild side effects are not entirely uncommon. These mild effects typically subside within a few days. As much as your kitty may despite and fear them, regular vaccines can help keep her healthy, happy and quite possibly free of potentially dangerous infectious illnesses -- phew. However, although quite rare, some cats may experience malaise and negative side effects as a result of shots.
All kittens should receive their core vaccinations, and any others that are agreed between you and your vet. The initial vaccine course is often started at 8-9 weeks of age, with a second injection 3-4 weeks later. Vaccinating your cat. Print this page. Just as in humans, vaccinating your cat helps to protect him or her against several serious and/or life threatening diseases. Anyone who cares for his or her cat will want to protect it in this way and vaccination is a critical part of a proper preventive healthcare programme.
The Rabies vaccine should be given as a booster one year after the initial kitten rabies vaccine and every three years from that point on. The FVRCP-C vaccine should be given one year after the initial kitten series of vaccines and then every 3 years, unless otherwise instructed by the particular vaccine manufacturer. To clarify, if the vaccine is given to a 6-week-old kitten, it is entirely possible that your kitten will receive 3 doses of the vaccine (at 6 weeks of age, 10 weeks, and 14 weeks), but a minimum of 2 doses is recommended for all cats that begin the series when they are older than 16 weeks.
Generally the risks of vaccination are extremely low. Severe reactions being very rare. Many cats experience mild reactions at the site of vaccination where a lump may occur that can be painful. Generalised reactions are sometimes seen, the cat being quiet, lame and often off its food for 24 hours after vaccination. 3. The cat was not healthy at the time of vaccination – ‘stress’ can prevent a good response to vaccination. For this reason your vet will give your cat a physical examination before a vaccination is given. 4. The cat may also be pre-infected with the ‘cat flu’ virus and incubating the disease.