Cullman County comprises the Cullman, AL Micropolitan Statistical Area, which is a component of the Birmingham-Hoover-Talladega, AL Combined Statistical Area. Cullman is served by TV stations and FM radio stations from both Huntsville and Birmingham. Cullman County is a part of the designated market area, or DMA, of Birmingham. Electricity in Cullman County is provided by the Tennessee Valley Authority and by the Alabama Power Company. For a long time, telephone service in this county was provided by the Southern Bell Company. Its county seat is Cullman. Its name is in honor of Colonel John G. Cullmann. It is a moist county in terms of availability of alcoholic beverages; the cities of Cullman, Good Hope and Hanceville allow sale of alcohol and are wet and the rest of the county is dry.
Cullman County is a county of the U.S. state of Alabama. As of the 2010 census, the population was 80,406. Its county seat is Cullman. Its name is in honor of Colonel John G. Cullmann. It is a moist county in terms of availability of alcoholic beverages; the cities of Cullman, Good Hope and Hanceville allow sale of alcohol and are wet and the rest of the county is dry.
Cullman County. County Jail. Cullman County Detention Center is classed as a medium security facility. It has a strengthened perimeter fence and electronic detection systems to ensure inmates stay within the facility. Cullman County Detention Center is a County Jail used by the jurisdictions of Cullman to confine inmates for short periods while awaiting trial or processing.
60% of Cullman County residents lived in the same house 5 years ago. Out of people who lived in different houses, 62% lived in this county. Out of people who lived in different counties, 63% lived in Alabama. People in group quarters in Cullman County, Alabama in 2010: 1  370 people in nursing facilities/skilled-nursing facilities. 2  231 people in local jails and other municipal confinement facilities. 3  194 people in college/university student housing.
Located in north-central Alabama, Cullman County was founded by German immigrants in the 1870s and today is home to the Shrine of the Most Blessed Sacrament and Our Lady of Angels Monastery. Cullman County is also home to Lewis Smith Lake, the only place in the state in which rainbow trout can be found. The county is named for its founder, Johann G. Cullman, who came to Alabama in 1873 to establish a colony for German immigrants. Prior to its creation, present-day Cullman County was occupied by poor farmers and squatters.
Cullman's Got it Going On! starring County Commission Chairman Kenneth Walker Mayor Max A. Townson. 
History. Cullman County was created by an act of the Alabama State Legislature on January 24, 1877, from portions of Blount, Walker, Morgan, and Winston counties. The county is named for its founder, Johann G. Cullman, who came to Alabama in 1873 to establish a colony for German immigrants. Prior to its creation, present-day Cullman County was occupied by poor farmers and squatters.
0.04% of residents moved from foreign countries ($155 average AGI)Cullman County:0.04%Alabama average:0.05% 3.06% relocated from other counties in Alabama ($21,868 average AGI) 1.39% relocated from other states ($11,024 average AGI)Cullman County:1.39%Alabama average:2.63%. People in group quarters in Cullman County, Alabama in 2010: 1  370 people in nursing facilities/skilled-nursing facilities. 2  231 people in local jails and other municipal confinement facilities. 3  194 people in college/university student housing.
Find Public Records in. This page lists public record sources in Cullman County, Alabama. Additional resources can be found on our Alabama State Public Records page, on city pages, and on topic pages using the navigation above. Recommend a link for this page. Court Directory and Court Records Info. Directory of court locations in Cullman County, Alabama. Includes local links to searching court records, dockets, legal research, self help, and more.