Potatoes were brought back to Ireland and the rest of Europe from  the New World, South America, upon their discovery by European  explorers. Potatoes were not found anywh … ere in Europe, Asia or  Africa until they were imported. His fathers family came from Wexford, in the south east of Ireland and he came to visit the place they came from. His mothers family was from Limerick but he did visit that pa … rt of Ireland.
Murphy (O ó murchadha Or Mac) murchadha is the most common surname In. Ireland it arose independently in several parts Of: Ireland, Tyrone, sligo And. Wexford today it is found In, Wexford, Carlow, Cork. Kerry The Ulster murphys are strong In armagh and the surname is widepread In. ulster 
The Martin surname, common in both England and Ireland, can be found primarily in Galway, Tyrone, and Westmeath. Moore. The ancient Irish Moores settled in Kildare, while most Moores are from Antrim and Dublin. Murphy. The most common of all Irish names, the Murphy surname can be found in all four provinces. Murphys are primarily from Antrim, Armagh, Carlow, Cork, Kerry, Roscommon, Sligo, Tyrone, and Wexford, however. Murray. The Murray surname is especially prolific in Donegal
The Irish people (Irish: Muintir na hÉireann héireann Or hÉireannaigh) heireannaigh héireannaigh are a nation and ethnic group who originate from the Island of ireland and its. Associated islands ireland has been inhabited 9,000 about 9000 years according to (archaeological Studies See). prehistoric ireland The terms Irish and Ireland are derived from the goddess Ériu. ériu a variety of historical ethnic groups have inhabited the, island including The, Airgialla Fir nEchmacht, Nechmacht, Delbhna Fir, Érainn, Erainn, érainn, Eoganachta, Eóganachta, mairtine Conmaicne. soghain and ulaid
In Irish O ó conchobhair OR O, ó conchuir conchúir the name means. Hero Or Champion the o connors were one Of three; royal irish families They, Are, From, Clare, Derry, Galway, Kerry offaly roscommon sligo and The. province of ulster Ireland was one of the first countries to adopt hereditary surnames, many of which were devised during the reign of Brian Boru, the High King of Ireland, who fell defending Ireland from the Vikings at the Battle of Clontarf in 1014AD.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Ireland is the English language equivalent of Eire. Eire is the Irish name for the island of Ireland. Its not the only name used in the Irish language others such as Banbha were used. Eire was a princess of the Tuatha de Danaan the semi-mythical early Celts who assumed god-like charachteristcs. His fathers family came from Wexford, in the south east of Ireland and he came to visit the place they came from. His mothers family was from Limerick but he did visit that pa … rt
Their surname is the most common in Derry. Doyle. The name comes from dubh ghall, the dark foreigner, and is thought to be Norse in origin. In the province of Ulster they were known as Mac Dubghaill (MacDowell and MacDuggall). Ireland was one of the first countries to adopt hereditary surnames, many of which were devised during the reign of Brian Boru, the High King of Ireland, who fell defending Ireland from the Vikings at the Battle of Clontarf in 1014AD.
Earliest Names of Ireland One of the earliest names for Ireland was Scotia, arguably after Scota, a Pharaoh’s daughter in the days of Moses. Scotia married Niul, a Gael (alternative spelling, Gaedhal). Some say the Gaels got their name because Niul was a Gaedhal (alternative spelling, Gaodhal. Ireland was termed Ogygia by Plutarch. Caesar used the name Hibernia, which was derived from Ivernia, the name of a people located in the south of the island. Remember, the Milesian conqueror mentioned above, Eber, (Heber.
This distinguished surname belonged to one of Ireland's great princely families who held territory in Breffny (now Cavan and West Leitrim). The prefix 'O' means grandson or male descendant. Rourke is an Anglicization of the Gaelic personal name Ruairc. The clan was noted for its military leaders... 