Vinyl flooring is a popular flooring option for families with pets. Luxury vinyl and vinyl sheet are highly durable, long-lasting, and resistant to moisture, scratches and dents. They are also easy to maintain. And here's another benefit of vinyl: it softens the sound of your pet’s nails when they walk across the floor.
But it is most popular as a floor covering. Vinyl flooring is made up of layers of material starting with a core of vinyl over a backing of felt or fiberglass. Decorative designs are printed on the next layer that sits on top of the core. That decorative design layer is what makes vinyl flooring so versatile. It can be made to look like almost any material.
Whether it is recycled or natural rubber, flooring that is made from either one is very comfortable. Rubber floors bring with them a superior level of anti-fatigue comfort that is hard to find in other types of flooring. The rubber material is softer and more forgiving surface to stand on than wood or concrete.
Our flooring products are manufactured with natural or recycled and reclaimed rubbers, adopting the materials’ incredible durability and protective qualities. However, rubber’s versatility is the characteristic that makes our flooring products so incredibly useful for a variety of needs.
You’ll want to find durable, easy-care Flooring that accommodates your dog or pet ’s size, age and temperament. Some pet-friendly products are also eco-friendly; good for your pets, and good for the earth.
PET BCF Polyester Carpet is manufactured using recycled plastic bottles made with polyethylene terephthalate, also known as PET. The BCF portion stands for Bulked Continuous Filament, which describes the construction of the carpet yarn.
If you want the cleanest, most sustainable carpet for your home, opt for EverStrand. ® This premium PET polyester fiber is thoroughly purified for the cleanest strand and easy to keep clean with advanced soil and stain protection. And, with up to 100% recycled content, it's the world's most sustainable carpet.
Recycled rubber is a remarkably durable kind of elastomer that is made from vehicle tires. Rubber floors made from this cost-effective material demonstrate a clear ability to shield existing flooring from physical shock and impact, while also being durable enough to maintain their form.