Stargate Wiki has a collection of images related to Aurora-class battleship. 1  The size of the ship is, as with many other vessels in the Stargate universe, hard to determine. 2  The first appearance was the Aurora, which was a derelict floating in space with little reference for size. According to Katana Labrea, this Aurora-class ship was destroyed along with a Traveler generational ship, and a colony of 3,000 people when a Stargate exploded; an unfortunate side-effect of the Attero device. (ATL :  Travelers ,  Be All My Sins Remember'd , .
The Cruiser Aurora. The historical ship Aurora has been turned into a museum and is docked just a few hundred yards upstream from the Cabin of Peter the Great, opposite the St Petersburg Hotel. 
Aurora was the first ship in the P&O Cruises fleet to receive the new livery design as a part of its £26 million pound makeover in winter 2015. 
Editor Rating. 4.0. Aurora is one of the oldest ships in the P&O Cruises fleet (it was launched in 2000), and came out a much-needed £26 million refurbishment at the end of 2014 as the firstone to carry the new livery, featuring a contemporary version of the Union Flag on its bow, and a blue funnel. Aurora is a family-friendly ship and has extensive kids' facilities, so expect a large proportion of children during holiday times. However, outside of school holidays the ship reverts to its traditional demographic of 50-something and older Brits.
[ɐˈvrorə]) is a 1900 Russian protected cruiser, currently preserved as a museum ship in St. Petersburg. Aurora was one of three Pallada-class cruisers, built in St. Petersburg for service in the Pacific. All three ships of this class served during the Russo-Japanese War. Aurora survived the Battle of Tsushima and was interned under US protection in the Philippines, eventually returned to the Baltic Fleet. The second ship, Pallada, was sunk by the Japanese at Port Arthur in 1904. Aurora stands today as the oldest commissioned ship of the Russian Navy, still flying the naval ensign under which she was commissioned, but now under the care of the Central Naval Museum. She is still manned by an active service crew commanded by a Captain of the 1st Rank.
MV Aurora is a cruise ship of the P&O Cruises fleet. The ship was built by Meyer Werft at their shipyard in Papenburg, Germany. At over 76,000 tonnes, Aurora is the sixth largest of eight ships currently in service with P&O Cruises. Aurora ‍ '​s Atrium. Aurora is a mid-sized cruise ship, with an overall length of 270.0 metres (885 ft 10 in), moulded beam of 32.2 metres (105 ft 8 in) and draught of 7.90 metres (25 ft 11 in). Her gross tonnage is 76,152 and her deadweight tonnage is 8,486 tonn
In 1906 Aurora returned to the Baltic and became a cadet training ship. From 1906 until 1912 the cruiser visited a number of other countries; in November 1911 she was in Bangkok as part of the celebrations in honour of the coronation of the new King of Siam. Aurora stands today as the oldest commissioned ship of the Russian Navy, still flying the naval ensign under which she was commissioned, but now under the care of the Central Naval Museum. She is still manned by an active service crew commanded by a Captain of the 1st Rank.
129 Reviews. Cruise Critic Review. 4.0 Editor's Rating. Aurora is one of the oldest ships in the P&O Cruises fleet (it was launched in 2000), and came out a much-needed £26 million refurbishment at the end of 2014 as the firstone to carry the new livery, featuring ... 11. 