Hi! I am Veronica Roth the author of Insurgent. I love to write creative stories, and I decided to write Insurgent the sequel to Divergent for many reasons. 1) I love writing. 2) I want people to get enjoyment from reading my book. 3)I knew that the story that was started in Divergent was not finished,so I decided to continue it.
Divergent is the debut novel of American novelist Veronica Roth, published by HarperCollins Children's Books in 2011. It is a young-adult dystopian novel set in the so-called Divergent Universe, that features a post-apocalyptic version of Chicago. The novel follows Beatrice Tris. Roth wrote Divergent while working on a creative writing degree at Northwestern University, and it was quickly purchased for publication. Divergent is the first book in a trilogy that was completed in October 2013. Roth's first book of short fiction set in the Divergent universe is forthcoming July 2014: Four: A Divergent Collection, edited by Katherine Tegen
Bio: Veronica Roth is a twenty-two-year-old debut author and a recent graduate of Northwestern University's creative writing program. While a student, she often chose to work on the story that would become Divergent instead of doing her homework. Now a full-time writer, she lives near Chicago. Roth started writing Divergent while in college, originally from the perspective of Tobias, Tris's mentor and love interest. But Tobias's voice didn't feel quite right. So Roth switched to a strong-willed female narrator.
Veronica Roth is from a Chicago suburb. She studied creative writing at Northwestern University, and wrote DIVERGENT (Katherine Tegen Books, May 2011) and INSURGENT (May 2012). The third and final book in The Divergent Trilogy, ALLEGIANT, will come out on October 22, 2013. 
Divergent is the debut novel of American novelist Veronica Roth, published by HarperCollins Children's Books in 2011. Divergent won Favorite book of 2011 in 2011's Goodreads Readers Choice Awards, and won the senior category of the 2014 Young Reader's Choice Award. It was also number one in the Teens' Top Ten Vote, sponsored by YALSA.
I think the author's purpose, Veronica Roth's purpose, for writing Insurgent firstly was obviously to be the sequel of her first book Divergent, but I believe she also had another intention. 
Veronica wrote Divergent because she wanted to delve into a fiction world with very specific traits. Also she centered it in the heart of Chicago, her hometown, so she wanted to make it a Utopian, futuristic society. Mostly she started to write Divergent for her own amusement, but eventually she began to find it more and more interesting and decided to have it published. With millions of fans, after Divergent had become a hit, she had to write a follow-up to her novel. Insurgent, her second book, was also a smash hit. And now she is writing Allegiant the final installment in the trilog
The novel is the first of the Divergent trilogy, a series of young-adult dystopian novels set in the Divergent Universe. The novel Divergent features a post-apocalyptic version of Chicago and follows Beatrice Tris. Divergent won Favorite book of 2011 in 2011's Goodreads Readers Choice Awards, and won the senior category of the 2014 Young Reader's Choice Award. It was also number one in the Teens' Top Ten Vote, sponsored by YALSA.
Veronica Roth is best known for her trilogy of novels: Divergent, Insurgent, and Allegiant; Allegiant was released on October 22, 2013. She is the recipient of the Goodreads 2011 Choice Award and the Best of 2012 in the category Young Adult Fantasy & Science Fiction and also Best Goodreads Author in 2012. Veronica Roth was born on August 19, 1988 in New York City, and was raised primarily in Barrington, Illinois. Her mother, Barbara Ross, is a painter who resides in Barrington. She is the youngest of three children.