64 STATE OF THE RIVER NILE BASIN 2012 The Sudd is located at the confluenceof the White Nile tributaries (see Chapter 2) and comprises of the Bahr el Ghazal wetlands in the west, the Bahr el Jebel wetlands in the centre, the Sobat–Baro–Pibor wetlands to the east and the Machar marshes to the northeast. 62 STATE OF THE RIVER NILE BASIN 2012 Lake Tana, the source of the Blue Nile (Abay), is located at the top of the eastern Nile watershed, and has alkaline water due to intensive evaporation.
We think it is the largest swamp in the world. The Nile River flowing north spreads into a huge basin called the Sudd (Arabic for block due large floating islands of vegetation blocking the river), and then reappears again as a river near Malakal. ZERAF GAME RESERVE AND THE SUDD. T he great Sudd is a swamp the size of England that has blocked exploration from Egypt into Africa for centuries. Alan Moorehead in his book The White Nile, wrote that for the early explorers searching for the source of the Nile - ...there is no more formidable swamp in the world.
76 STATE OF THE RIVER NILE BASIN 2012 Livestock production and fisheries: Over-exploitation of rangelands through overgrazing is a serious problem in parts of the basin such as the toic grasslands of South Sudan, Ethiopian Highlands, northern Rwanda, northern Tanzania, and the cattle belt in Uganda. 62 STATE OF THE RIVER NILE BASIN 2012 Lake Tana, the source of the Blue Nile (Abay), is located at the top of the eastern Nile watershed, and has alkaline water due to intensive evaporation.
The Sudd (Arabic sadd, barrier) is a vast swamp formed by the White Nile in southern Sudan. Its size is variable, but during the wet season it may be over 130,000 km² in area. In the Sudd, the river flows through multiple tangled channels in a pattern that changes each year. Hydrogeologists in the early part of the 20th century proposed digging a canal east of the Sudd which would divert water from the Bahr al Jabal above the Sudd to a point farther down the White Nile, bypassing the swamps and carrying the White Nile's water's directly to the main channel of the river.
These two major basins are the eastern Nile that is composed of Abbay (Blue Nile), Tekeze (Atbara), Baro Akobo (Sobat), and the Nile Equatorial Lake that is composed of mainly Lake Victoria basins, sudd swamp are in south Sudan.... The Nile and its tributaries flow through Eleven countries and the river basin drains over three million square kilometers (one tenth of Africa’s total land mass) and is home to more than 300 million people (many of them are among the world’s poorest).
It is 6,853 km (4,258 miles) long. The Nile is an international river as its water resources are shared by eleven countries, namely, Tanzania, Uganda, Rwanda, Burundi, Congo-Kinshasa, Kenya, Ethiopia, Eritrea, South Sudan, Sudan and Egypt. In particular, the Nile is the primary water source of Egypt and Sudan. The White Nile is longer and rises in the Great Lakes region of central Africa, with the most distant source still undetermined but located in either Rwanda or Burundi. It flows north through Tanzania, Lake Victoria, Uganda and South Sudan.
The Sudd (a s-Sudd or al-Sudd) is a vast swamp in South Sudan, formed by the White Nile 's Baḥr al-Jabal section. The Arabic word sudd is derived from sadd (سد), meaning barrier or obstruction. The term the sudd has come to refer to any large solid floating vegetation island or mat. The area which the swamp covers is one of the world's largest wetlands and the largest freshwater wetland in the Nile basin. Because of the Sudd swamp, the water from the southwestern tributaries (the Bahr el Ghazal system) for all practical purposes does not reach the main river and is lost through evaporation and transpiration.
The Blue Nile, however, is the source of most of the water and silt. The White Nile is longer and rises in the Great Lakes region of central Africa, with the most distant source still undetermined but located in either Rwanda or Burundi. It flows north through Tanzania, Lake Victoria, Uganda and South Sudan.
The Sudd is a vast expanse of swampy lowland region in central South Sudan, formed by the river White Nile. The area which the swamp covers is one of the world's largest wetlands in the Nile basin. Its size is highly variable, averaging over 30,000 square kilometers, but during the rainy season depending on the inflowing waters, the Sudd can extend to over 130,000 square km or an area the size of England. 