1 You can no longer see a contact's last seen or online in the chat window. 2  Learn more here. 3  You do not see updates to a contact's profile picture. 4  Any messages sent to a contact who has blocked you will always show one check mark (message sent), and never show a second check mark (message delivered).
Please can someone help! I blocked a contact on Whatsapp but I can still see his last seen timestamp (as it changes over time-its changed many times since blocking). He can also see mine.
If you notice all of the above for a particular WhatsApp contact then there is a high possibility that WhatsApp contact has blocked you. However, still there might be a slight chance of other possibilities too. WhatsApp has implemented it like this on purpose keeping in mind your privacy when you block someone.
-- You may make a WhatsApp call but if the person has blocked you, the call will never go through. -- The last way and the best way to find out if you are blocked or not is to ask the person, if that is an option available to you. If someone, who is close, is blocking you could be some reason.
1 Blocking someone will not remove this contact from your WhatsApp list, nor will it remove you from the list on this contact's phone. 2  To delete a contact in WhatsApp, you must delete the contact from your phone's address book.
1 First factor is that you will not be able to see the blacklister's last seen at.. login information or their online indicator in the Chat window. 2  However, this is not actually a foolproof indicator since based on our previous WhatsApp tip, you can easily toggle your last seen at.. information and set it to OFF.
If you see all of the above indicators for a contact, this could mean that the person is blocking you. However, there are other possibilities. We have made this intentionally ambiguous in order to protect your privacy when you block someone. Thus, we cannot tell you if you are being blocked by someone else.
There are actually two strong indicators that will enable you to know if someone from your contact list has blocked you on WhatsApp. 1  First factor is that you will not be able to see the blacklister's last seen at.. login information or their online indicator in the Chat window.
1 Additionally, note that if you block someone, they will still be able to see your status updates. 2  The checkmarks alone are not a clear indicator. 3  It could also mean that their internet connection is lost. 4  However, if the second checkmark hasn't appeared after a long time and the other signs are there, you're blocked.
1 Moreover, you will also not be able to view the Status of that WhatsApp contact. 2  If someone has blocked you on WhatsApp then your messages won’t be delivered to that contact. 3  This means that any message you send will have only one tick and will never have 2 ticks or colored blue ticks.