In your third trimester, you will have a prenatal visit every 2 weeks until week 36. After that, you will see your doctor or midwife every week. The visits may be quick, but they are still important. It is OK to bring your partner or labor coach with you.
You might have 1-2 appointments fewer than this if you’ve had a previous pregnancy with no complications. Many women have visits every 4-6 weeks until 28 weeks of pregnancy, then visits every 2-3 weeks until 36 weeks of pregnancy. After this, you’ll probably have weekly or fortnightly visits until birth.
For a healthy pregnancy, your doctor will probably want to see you on the following recommended schedule of prenatal visits: 1  Weeks 4 to 28: 1 prenatal visit a month. 2  Weeks 28 to 36: 1 prenatal visit every 2 weeks. 3  Weeks 36 to 40: 1 prenatal visit every week.
At this and all your antenatal appointments, your urine will be checked for protein, which later in pregnancy could indicate the condition pre-eclampsia (NCCWCH 2008: 23) . Your midwife will also take some blood samples and offer to arrange a dating scan to establish how many weeks pregnant you are.
Third trimester prenatal visits (28 weeks through the end of pregnancy). But the number of scheduled appointments you'll have depends on your medical history and whether you have any complications or conditions such as high blood pressure that warrant more frequent checkups.
Most pregnant women will have somewhere between 10 and 15 prenatal visits throughout the term of the pregnancy. During the first and second trimester, the expecting mother will normally visit the doctor or midwife almost every 4 weeks while the frequency will increase to almost every 2 weeks in the third trimester.
Most pregnant women have between ten and 15 prenatal visits. If you have a partner or labor coach, you may want that person to come to some of these appointments with you. Typically, a mom-to-be will visit her doctor or midwife every four weeks during the first and second trimesters. In the third trimester, you'll be seen more often, typically once every two weeks until 36 weeks, then weekly until the baby is born. For more information on what happens at these visits, see:
In your third trimester (28 weeks through the end of your pregnancy), you'll most likely have a checkup every two weeks from 28 to 36 weeks, then switch to once-a-week visits until you deliver.