If they can catch other insects or bugs, they will also enjoy a meaty snack. A colony of crickets that have run out of food may even turn on weaker members in an act of cannibalism. As you might have guessed, most crickets aren't very discriminating about their diet; the truth is, a cricket will eat just about anything. Crickets are perhaps best known for the chirping sounds they make at night, which help them find mates or scare off other male crickets. Normally, when people make a sound they use their vocal chords.
You need to know the answer to what do crickets eat. Find it here. Crickets are unusual creatures that will eat a variety of things, some traditional, some not so traditional including dead or decaying insects, plant matter, and fungi. If they cannot find anything to eat, they eat each other. Not a happy thought, but it saves time and energy. So, now that you know how crickets handle their food, let's find out what's on the menu. Cricket diets go way beyond plant matter and other insects. This is why you need to go into hunting-mode when you hear one inside your home. They will dine on leather, certain types of cloth, and paper.
Crickets eat food that is very similar to a human’s diet. They are omnivores that may eat fruits, vegetables and meats. In nature they eat what they can find such as rotting leaves, rotting fruit, vegetables and insects. They are scavengers that eat what they can find in our homes, garages and in our yards. Also, crickets eat protein to stay healthy
Crickets can cause a lot of damage to crops. They eat the stems and seeds of almost all commercially grown plants, including corn, barley, wheat and vegetables. A large cricket population is capable of destroying rows of seedlings in a single day. When crickets invade a garden, they prefer to eat vegetables and fruits. They may eat fresh, rotten, and dried produce. If fruit and vegetables aren’t in season, they can feed on the stems of the plants in the garden. If plants aren’t available, crickets may begin to eat other insects. Crickets may cause a lot of damage to a wardrobe. When crickets invade a pantry they can cause extensive damage. The jaws of a cricket are capable of chewing through plastic bags and cardboard. They can quickly invade stored grains and cereals as well.
They eat plants and even meat, on every continent except Antarctica. Crickets are perhaps best known for the chirping sounds they make at night, which help them find mates or scare off other male crickets. Normally, when people make a sound they use their vocal chords. Crickets, however, use their wings!
Well, that depends on the cricket. There are many different species that feed on a variety of things. Crickets are generally considered a pest because of their chirping noise and the damage they can do to some items found in your home. Crickets that make their way into your home will feed on a variety of food, paper products and fabrics. 
Crickets (also known as true crickets), of the family Gryllidae, are insects related to bush crickets, and, more distantly, to grasshoppers. The Gryllidae have mainly cylindrical bodies, round heads and long antennae. Behind the head is a smooth, robust pronotum. 
The store crickets you normally feed to your reptiles/fish/etc will not be picky eaters, but they are not as hardy as the ones that have been living outdoors for generations. Outdoor crickets will eat plants, molds, bugs, pretty much what they can digest when their hungry depending on the breed. Crickets are omnivores, meaning will eat anything from smaller beetles to grass and crops. Also, if you are breeding crickets, it is suggested to feed them carrots, strawberries, cucumbers, and fruit loops (cereal) along with a damp sponge. Themselves!!!!
Crickets raised in the home for pet consumption can be fed a wide variety of staples that will, in turn, befit said pet. If your feeding a turtle, put some turtle food in the crickets feed dish. Anoles, feed the cricket's some anole food, and so forth. Crickets can handle most hard, soft, and flake foods. Crickets are omnivores, meaning will eat anything from smaller beetles to grass and crops. Also, if you are breeding crickets, it is suggested to feed them carrots, strawberries, cucumbers, and fruit loops (cereal) along with a damp sponge. Themselves!!!!