One and a half hours is much too long to cook the chicken at 350 degrees F. The time your chicken will bake in the oven does depend on the internal temperature and the size of your chicken or chicken pieces. Generally I bake chicken at 350 degrees F. for 30 to 40 minutes. A cooking or meat thermometer should not be a sometime thing.. Use it every time you prepare foods like poultry, roasts, hams, casseroles, meat loaves and egg dishes. I, too, have seen recipes that call for cooking the chicken over a hour. I just ignore their inaccurate times and use the following logic:
Kitchen Fact: The safe internal temperature for cooked chicken is 165° Fahrenheit (75° Celsius). A meat or instant-read thermometer is your best bet for determining the temperature of your chicken, and if you're cooking a whole bird, it should be inserted into the thickest part of the thigh but not touching bone. 165 degrees Fahrenheit is the safe internal temperature for both the white meat and dark meat. If you don't have a thermometer, an easy visual clue is that all the juices that come from the chicken should run clear and not be pink. Kitchen Fact Source: Safe Minimum Cooking Temperatures at Foodsafety.gov.
Chicken leftovers should be cooled and refrigerated as soon as possible, limiting the amount of time it is exposed to room temperatures. Never leave the chicken at room temperature for more than two hours. Cooked chicken can be store for up to three or four days in a refrigerator at 40°F or less. If taking cooked chicken to be served at another location, be sure to pack the chicken so it maintains the proper temperatures. If you are keeping it hot, it should maintain at least a 140°F temperature and if it is cold, it must be kept at or below 40°F. Cooking Safety.
Handling Leftover Chicken. Cooked chicken should not be left at room temperature for more than two hours. Package it up in an air-tight container and store it in the fridge for up to two days. 1  Recipes for Leftover Chicken. 2  Chicken. Chicken should reach 165 degrees F (75 degrees C). The meat will continue to cook once removed from the heat. So if the temperature is a few degrees below the target–keep the thermometer in place for a moment; the temperature might climb to a safe heat. Safety Tips for Marinating Chicken.
A cooking or meat thermometer should not be a sometime thing.. Use it every time you prepare foods like poultry, roasts, hams, casseroles, meat loaves and egg dishes. After desired cooking temperature is reached, remove meat from heat source and let stand 10 to 15 minutes before carving. A cooking or meat thermometer should not be a sometime thing.. Use it every time you prepare foods like poultry, roasts, hams, casseroles, meat loaves and egg dishes. I, too, have seen recipes that call for cooking the chicken over a hour. I just ignore their inaccurate times and use the following logic:
This goes to the very heart of the liberal/conservative debate  and, as you can imagine, it s not pretty. Our government says that you should cook a whole chicken until the temperature measured in the thigh is 180°F (82°C). If you cook chicken pieces, the government says, the thigh, wings, and drumsticks should be 180°F, while the breast should reach 170°F (77°C). 
Very generally, you would let them cook for 45 minutes to an hour at 350 degrees F. When checking chicken for doneness, insert a knife or fork in the thickest portion of the … meat. If it is done, the juices will run out clear, if not, the juices will have a pinkish tinge and you should let them cook a little longer. The internal temperature of cooked chicken, whether whole or in parts, should reach 165
Proper Storage. Chicken should be stored at a temperature outside of the temperature zone in which bacteria, that causes foodborne illness, grows quickly. The danger temperature zone is a range between 40°F and 140°F. Raw chicken can be stored in a refrigerator for several days. If taking cooked chicken to be served at another location, be sure to pack the chicken so it maintains the proper temperatures. If you are keeping it hot, it should maintain at least a 140°F temperature and if it is cold, it must be kept at or below 40°F. Cooking Safety.