enquire online. Pterygium symptoms A pterygium can usually be seen as a fleshy, pink growth on the white of the eye, and may occur in one eye or both. They occur between the eyelids, most often in the corner of the eye, close to the nose, but can sometimes extend onto the cornea. It usually appears as a creamy-coloured, chalky growth on the white of the eye, between the eyelids. A pinguecula will also normally occur in the corner of the eye, near the nose, and can affect one eye or both. Just like a pterygium, a pinguecula can cause irritation, as well as difficulty wearing contact lenses.
When it affects both eyes, it is called a bilateral pterygium. Pterygium is usually not a serious condition. It can, though, cause annoying symptoms such as the feeling of having a foreign body in the eye. Sometimes the growth becomes red and irritated and requires medical treatment. Symptoms of Pterygium. Sometimes, a pterygium causes no symptoms other than its appearance. An enlarging pterygium, however, may cause redness and inflammation. A pterygium can progressively grow onto the cornea (the clear, outer layer of the eye). This can distort the shape of the cornea, causing a condition called astigmatism
Symptoms of pterygium. Sometimes, a pterygium causes no symptoms other than its appearance. An enlarging pterygium, however, may cause redness and inflammation. In some cases, a pterygium can grow onto the centre of the cornea (the clear, outer layer of the eye covering the iris and pupil) and interfere with vision. It may also distort the shape of the cornea, causing a condition called astigmatism. The result can be blurred vis
A pterygium (plural pterygia) is a wedge-shaped growth of abnormal tissue that forms on the eye. While they are benign (non-cancerous) and relatively harmless, they can sometimes extend onto the cornea (the clear front ‘window’ of the eye) where they may affect vision. It usually appears as a creamy-coloured, chalky growth on the white of the eye, between the eyelids. A pinguecula will also normally occur in the corner of the eye, near the nose, and can affect one eye or both. Just like a pterygium, a pinguecula can cause irritation, as well as difficulty wearing contact lenses.
A pterygium can lead to severe scarring on your cornea, although this is rare. This condition needs to be treated since the scarring can cause vision loss. For minor cases, treatment usually involves eye drops or ointment to treat inflammation. In the most serious cases, treatment usually involves a corneal transplant. Surgery is also done when a pterygium causes a loss of vision or a condition called astigmatism, which results in blurry vision. You can also discuss surgical procedures with your doctor if you want the pterygium removed for cosmetic reasons. There are a couple of risks associated with these operations.
A pterygium, from the Greek word for “wing,” is an abnormal growth of tissue that extends from the conjunctiva (a membrane that covers the white of the eye) onto the cornea. Pterygia may be small, or grow large enough to interfere with vision and cause irritation. 
A pterygium is a growth that develops on the conjunctiva or mucous membrane that covers the white part of your eye. It is a benign or noncancerous growth that is often shaped like a wedge. In some cases, a pterygium can extend to the cornea. This is the clear part of your eye that covers your iris and pupil. Pterygia usually don’t cause problems or require treatment, although they can be removed if they interfere with your vision. Surgery is also done when a pterygium causes a loss of vision or a condition called astigmatism, which results in blurry vision. You can also discuss surgical procedures with your doctor if you want the pterygium removed for cosmetic reasons. There are a couple of risks associated with these operations.
Pinguecula has the same risk factors as pterygium, especially frequent exposure to the sun without sunglasses. Because pinguecula may prevent tears from coating the surface of your eye well, it can cause dryness and a feeling like something’s stuck in your eye. The pinguecula can also become red. Symptoms of Pterygium. Sometimes, a pterygium causes no symptoms other than its appearance. An enlarging pterygium, however, may cause redness and inflammation. A pterygium can progressively grow onto the cornea (the clear, outer layer of the eye). This can distort the shape of the cornea, causing a condition called astigmatism