One cup of dandelion also contains 535% of the recommended daily allowance of vitamin K and is a good source of vitamin C, calcium, iron, fiber, and potassium. There are many uses for dandelions, most of which involve the leaves. Dandelion is likely the most abundant and most identifiable edible flower in the country. For those people who seek to keep a lush, “weed”-less yard, dandelions are a thorn in their side.
Taraxacum /təˈraeksəkʉm/ təˈræksəkʉm is a large genus of flowering plants in the Family asteraceae and consists of species commonly known as. Dandelion they are native To eurasia And North, america and two, Species. t officinale And. t, erythrospermum are found as commonplace wild flowers. worldwide Taraxacum /təˈraeksəkʉm/ təˈræksəkʉm is a large genus of flowering plants in the Family asteraceae and consists of species commonly known as. dandelion
Dandelion herb nutrition facts. Revered since earlier times, Dandelion herb is one of the most sought-after herbs to enliven our daily meals. Almost all the parts of the plant, leaves, flower tops, and root, are being used either for culinary purpose or as a curative remedy for certain medical conditions. 
Eat them. Every part of the dandelion is edible – leaves, roots, and flowers. And they are nutritional power-houses. They’re rich in beta-carotene, fiber, potassium, iron, calcium, magnesium, phosphorus, B vitamins, and protein. The flowers. Dandelion flowers are a rich source of the nutrient lecithin. The best time to harvest them is mid-spring, when they’re usually the most abundant. If you cut off the green base, the flowers aren’t bitter.
Other Benefits: Dandelions can also be used as a vegetable and is a good source of fiber. It promotes digestion, and in the past, it was used to treat scurvy, because of its high levels of vitamin-C. It also has healing effects on dyspepsia, infections in the stomach, intestines and urinary system. Health Benefits of Dandelions. The health benefits of dandelions include the following: Bone Health: Dandelions are rich in calcium, which is essential for the growth and strength of bones, and they are rich in antioxidants like vitamin-C and Luteolin, which protect bones from age-related damage.
People use the above ground parts and root to make medicine. Dandelion is used for many conditions, but so far, there isn’t enough scientific evidence to determine whether or not it is effective for any of them. Dandelion is used for loss of appetite, upset stomach, intestinal gas, gallstones, joint pain, muscle aches, eczema, and bruises. Dandelion is also used to increase urine production and as a laxative to increase bowel movements. 
Dandelion root can by ground and used as a substitute for coffee, and dandelion flowers can be used in recipes and for garnish. The French have a well-known soup called creme de pissenlits (cream of dandelion soup), which is easy to make, as is Dandelion Syrup. 
Dandelion Flower Health Benefits. In the west we consider Dandelions to be weeds, but in many societies this beautiful flower is considered an important medicinal herbs. It also tastes great! The following list of benefits is only for the yellow flowers. The root and the leaves have even stronger properties and are more fully researched
Overview. While many people think of the dandelion (Taraxacum officinale) as a pesky weed, it is chock full of vitamins A, B, C, and D, as well as minerals, such as iron, potassium, and zinc. Dandelion leaves are used to add flavor to salads, sandwiches, and teas