The context clarifies the meaning of the word, phrase, sentence, etc. With the Bible, it is important to know the context of the particular passage you are studying. It is also important to understand the context of the entire book in which the passage is found and how that book fits into the context of Scripture. We also need to recognize where the passage fits into the flow of history.
While key words are very important, they are only part of the process. Understanding the language in word problems is critical for all students. They need to know the meaning of words. But because words are often used differently and problems are set up differently, there are some cautionary messages. Here is an example of problem that uses fewer than to set up a subtraction equation. Maria has 24 marbles which is 8 fewer than Paolo has. The difference is between knowing the meaning of the words fewer than and using fewer than as a key to an operation. We want students to know the meaning of the words, but also to see them in the context of the whole problem.
A person with this aphasia cannot understand the spoken words of others or read written words. Speech is preserved, but language content is incorrect. Substitutions of one word for another (paraphasias, e.g. “telephone” for “television”) are common. Comprehension and repetition are poor. 
While key words are very important, they are only part of the process. Understanding the language in word problems is critical for all students. They need to know the meaning of words. But because words are often used differently and problems are set up differently, there are some cautionary messages. Many ELLs may have difficulty reading and understanding the written content in a word problem. If a student is learning English as a second language, he might not yet know key terminology needed to solve the equation.
The different categories of communication are: 1  Spoken or Verbal Communication: face-to-face, telephone, radio or television and other media. 2  Non-Verbal Communication: body language, gestures, how we dress or act-even our scent. 3  Written Communication: letters, e-mails, books, magazines, the Internet or via other media. Communication theory states that communication involves a sender and a receiver (or receivers) conveying information through a communication channel. Communication Channels is the term given to the way in which we communicate.
In most languages, writing is a complement to speech or spoken language. Writing is not a language but a form of technology. Within a language system, writing relies on many of the same structures as speech, such as vocabulary, grammar and semantics, with the added dependency of a system of signs or symbols. 
Background. Word problems in mathematics often pose a challenge because they require that students read and comprehend the text of the problem, identify the question that needs to be answered, and finally create and solve a numerical equation. The difference is between knowing the meaning of the words fewer than and using fewer than as a key to an operation. We want students to know the meaning of the words, but also to see them in the context of the whole problem.
Here are five helpful steps to ensure you are effectively studying God's Word. Step 1 -- Reading Begin by developing a plan on how you will approach reading through the Bible. Unlike most books, you will probably not read it straight through from cover to cover. There are many good Bible reading plans available. Here is one John recommends: 1  Read through the Old Testament at least once a year.
Understanding how sounds are connected to print. In an English alphabetic system, the individual letters on the page are abstract and meaningless, in and of themselves. They must eventually be linked to equally abstract sounds called phonemes, blended together and pronounced as words, where meaning is finally realized. The development of reading fluency. While the ability to read words accurately is a necessary skill in learning to read, the speed at which this is done becomes a critical factor in ensuring that children understand what they read.