A solar cell, or photovoltaic cell, is an electrical device that converts the energy of light directly into electricity by the photovoltaic effect, which is a physical and chemical phenomenon. Assemblies of solar cells are used to make solar modules which generate electrical power from sunlight, as distinguished from a solar thermal module or solar hot water panel. A solar array generates solar power using solar energy.
Meaning: A cell that converts solar energy into electrical energy. Classified under: Nouns denoting man-made objects. Synonyms: photovoltaic cell; solar cell. Hypernyms (solar cell is a kind of...): cell; electric cell (a device that delivers an electric current as the result of a chemical reaction). Holonyms (solar cell is a part of...): solar array; solar battery; solar panel (electrical device consisting of a large array of connected solar cells). • SOLAR CELL (noun). The noun SOLAR CELL has 1 sense: 1. a cell that converts solar energy into electrical energy. Familiarity information: SOLAR CELL used as a noun is very rare.
A photovoltaic cell (PV cell) is a specialized semiconductor diode that converts visible light into direct current (DC). Some PV cells can also convert infrared (IR) or ultraviolet (UV) radiation into DC electricity. 
Here you will find a simple introduction to the technology for the uninitiated. A solar cell or photovoltaic cell is a device which generates electricity directly from visible light by means of the photovoltaic effect. In order to generate useful power, it is necessary to connect a number of cells together to form a solar panel, also known as a photovoltaic module. The amount of power generated by solar cells is determined by the amount of light falling on them, which is in turn determined by the weather and time of day. In the majority of cases some form of energy storage will be necessary. No matter what, sometimes there will be too much power. Other times there won't be enough.
solar cell. An electric cell that converts visible light into electrical energy. Solar cells are used as power supplies in calculators, satellites, and other devices, and as a prime source of electricity in remote locations. Also called photovoltaic cell. By exciting electrons to break free from their atoms. A solar cell has an upper layer of negatively charged silicon, with free-flowing electrons, and a lower layer of positively charged silicon, with atoms that are missing some electrons.
Photovoltaics (PV) is the name of a method of converting solar energy into direct current electricity using semiconducting materials that exhibit the photovoltaic effect, a phenomenon commonly studied in physics, photochemistry and electrochemistry. One of the major causes for the inefficiency of cells is overheating. The efficiency of a solar cell declines by about 0.5% for every 1 degree Celsius increase in temperature. This would mean that a 100 degree increase in surface temperature could decrease the efficiency of a solar cell by about half.
A solar cell or photovoltaic cell is a device that converts light energy into electrical energy. Sometimes the term solar cell is reserved for devices intended specifically to capture energy from sunlight, while the term photovoltaic cell is used when the light source is unspecified. 
Silicon is what is known as a semi-conductor, meaning that it shares some of the properties of metals and some of those of an electrical insulator, making it a key ingredient in solar cells. Let’s take a closer look at what happens when the sun shines onto a solar cell. Solar (or photovoltaic) cells convert the sun’s energy into electricity. Whether they’re adorning your calculator or orbiting our planet on satellites, they rely on the the photoelectric effect: the ability of matter to emit electrons when a light is shone on it.
Solar cell. A solar cell is an electrical device that converts the energy of light directly into electricity by the photovoltaic effect. It is a form of photoelectric cell which, when exposed to light, can generate and support an electric current without being attached to any external voltage source. 
A photoelectrolytic cell (photoelectrochemical cell), on the other hand, refers either to a type of photovoltaic cell (like that developed by Edmond Becquerel and modern dye-sensitized solar cells), or to a device that splits water directly into hydrogen and oxygen using only solar illumination. Assemblies of solar cells are used to make solar modules which generate electrical power from sunlight, as distinguished from a solar thermal module or solar hot water panel. A solar array generates solar power using solar energy.