It contains bases such as adenine, guanine, cytosine and uracil. Since mRNA is transcribed from the DNA molecule, its sequences are complementary to that of DNA on which they are transcribed.... Introduction: Messenger ribonucleic acid or mRNA encodes for a protein production. mRNA is produced from a DNA template by a process known as transcription
1 DNA and RNA base pairing is slightly different, since DNA uses the bases adenine, thymine, cytosine, and guanine; RNA uses adenine, uracil, cytosine, and guanine. 2  Uracil differs from thymine in that it lacks a methyl group on its ring. 1 DNA contains the sugar deoxyribose, while RNA contains the sugar ribose. 2  The only difference between ribose and deoxyribose is that ribose has one more-OH group than deoxyribose, which has-H attached to the second (2') carbon in the ring.
In transcription, the codons of a gene are copied into messenger RNA by RNA polymerase.This RNA copy is then decoded by a ribosome that reads the RNA sequence by base-pairing the messenger RNA to transfer RNA, which carries amino acids. Enzymes Required. DNA Helicase, DNA Polymerase. The purpose of transcription is to make RNA copies of individual genes that the cell can use in the biochemistry. Definition. DNA replication is the replication of a strand of DNA into two daughter strands, each daughter strand contains half of the original DNA double helix.
There are three main types of RNA: 1  Messenger RNA (mRNA) transcribes genetic information from the DNA found in a cell 's nucleus, and then carries this information to the cell's cytoplasm and ribosome. 2  Transfer RNA (tRNA) is found in a cell's cytoplasm and is closely related to mRNA as its helper. 1
TRANSCRIPTION-FROM DNA TO RNA This page takes a simple look at the structure of RNA and how the information in DNA is used to make messenger RNA. It is designed for 16 - 18 year old chemistry students, and if you are doing biology or biochemistry, you will probably need more detail than this page gives. Length. RNA is much shorter than DNA. DNA contains the code for making lots and lots of different proteins. Messenger RNA contains the information to make just one single polypeptide chain-in other words for just one protein, or even just a part of a protein if it is made up of more than one polypeptide chain.
RNA is of three types namely; mRNA, rRNA, and tRNA. mRNA is formed as a complementary strand to one of the two strands of the DNA. So it carries the same information as DNA in that particular part except that in place of thymine, uracil is present. The main function of mRNA is to carry the genetic information from the chromosomal DNA to the cytoplasm for the synthesis of proteins. This is the reason why Jacob and Monad named this kind of RNA as messenger RNA in 1961. The lifespan of mRNA in the prokaryotic cells is very short.
One strand of DNA is transcribed or copied to make a messenger RNA (mRNA) molecule. The nitrogenous bases pair up. Uracil is now paired up with adenine for RNA. 2. Once the mRNA has transcribed the message, it breaks away from the DNA strand. 
3) RNA has uracil as a nucleotide (along with adenine, cytosine, and guanine). DNA has adenine, cytosine, guanine, and thymine as nucleotides. 4) Their functions differ. DNA is a medium for long-term storage, along with the transmission of genetic material. RNA serves as a messenger between DNA and the protein synthesis complexes known as ribosomes. 5) There is only one type of DNA. Best Answer: RNA differs from DNA in a number of ways. 1) RNA is single stranded molecule, while DNA is double stranded. 2) RNA is a polymer with ribose and phosphate backbone, while DNA has a deoxyribose(1 less oxygen) and phosphate backbone.
How does transcription differ from DNA synthesis? The primary difference between transcription and DNA replication is that only a single strand of mRNA is produced during transcription. During DNA replication both strands need to be copied and DNA polymerase needs to work on both strands at the same time. 