A. pain, swelling, stiffness and loss of function in your joints. It can affect any joint but is common in the wrist and fingers.You might have the disease for only a short time, or symptoms might come and go. The severe form can last a lifetime. A. Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease, which means the problem is that the body attacks its own cells, in this case, the joints. The cause for this autoimmunity is unknown, and there are factors that are known to worsen an attack. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Image:Rheumatoid_arthritis_joint.gif
A. Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease, which means the problem is that the body attacks its own cells, in this case, the joints. The cause for this autoimmunity is unknown, and there are factors that are known to worsen an attack. Applications of heat or cold may be used in the management of rheumatoid arthritis. Heat applications improve circulation, promote relaxation, and relieve pain. When used in conjunction with exercise, heat can allow more freedom of joint movement.
About RA. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a disease that causes pain, swelling, and stiffness in the joints. In some people, it can also cause the joints to become damaged and deformed. 1  Although it can affect any joint in the body, RA is most commonly found in the hands, wrists, feet, and knees. 2  Usually, if it is found in one hand, it will appear in the other as well.
Rheumatoid arthritis: An autoimmune disease characterized by chronic inflammation of joints. Rheumatoid disease can also involve inflammation of tissues in other areas of the body, such as the lungs, heart, and eyes. Because it can affect multiple organs of the body, rheumatoid arthritis is referred to as a systemic illness.
: characteristic of or affected with rheumatoid arthritis. 
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) causes premature mortality, disability and compromised quality of life in the industrialized and developing world (1). Rheumatoid arthritis is a systemic inflammatory disease which manifests itself in multiple joints of the body. 1 RA is diagnosed clinically, but classified according to the 2010 American College of Rheumatology (ACR) and European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) classification criteria for rheumatoid arthritis http://www.rheumatology.org/practice/clinical/classification/ra/ra_2010.asp (7, 8).
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a long lasting autoimmune disorder that primarily affects joints. It typically results in warm, swollen, and painful joints. Pain and stiffness often worsen following rest. Most commonly the wrist and hands are involved with typically the same joints involved on both sides of the body. While the cause of rheumatoid arthritis is not clear, it is believed to involve a combination of genetic and environmental factors. The underlying mechanism involves the body's immune system attacking the joints. This results in inflammation and thickening of the joint capsule
1 Informally, arthritis often refers to osteoarthritis, while rheumatism describes rheumatoid arthritis. 2  Rheumatoid arthritis is a type of autoimmune disease (where the body attacks itself). 3  More than 50 million Americans are thought to be living with arthritis. Old and new words, lay and medical terms. While rheumatism is still found in the lay dictionaries to denote any of a number of pain conditions of the muscles and joints, doctors no longer use the word. One medical dictionary, Black's, says it is an obsolete medical term which no longer has a defined meaning. 1.