(Canada). An Architectural Technologist earns an average salary of C$49,289 per year. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this field. The skills that increase pay for this job the most are Microsoft Word and Project Coordinating. X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare).
These figures are only a guide, as actual rates of pay may vary, depending on the employer and where people live. 1  New entrants may earn an average of £15,000 to £18,000 a year. 2  Technicians with three years' experience may earn around £20,000 to £25,000. 3  Experienced architectural technologists can earn £40,000 or more. Hours and environment. Architectural technicians/technologists usually work from 9am to 5pm from Monday to Friday, although overtime may be necessary to meet deadlines. There is a limited amount of part-time work available. Most work is based in the office, with some time spent visiting clients and sites.
Starting salary. £20,000 + per year. Architectural technicians and technologists use their skills in science and engineering to help bring architects' construction ideas to life. They work on design plans, advise on the best use of building materials and monitor progress of projects. As an architectural technician, you'll: 1  compile technical information for use in the planning of projects, such as client requirements, site surveys and building regulations. 2  prepare plans using computer aided design (CAD) software, as well as traditional drawing methods.
Architectural engineering salaries improve based on how long they have been employed. Entry-level employees start around $51,000 a year, move up to $74,000 a year for nine to 10 years' experience and peak at $106,080 a year for 26 to 30 years of experience. Architectural engineers, like workers in other industries, are paid more for living in areas with higher costs of living, like New York City, California and Chicago, where architectural engineers earn just under $80,000 a year.
According to PayScale.com, architectural technicians made a median annual salary of $48,696 in 2014. Salaries often depended on the industry and location of workers. Essential Information. Architectural technicians are structural designers that work with engineers and general architects to create construction blueprints. Most technicians are not involved with the actual designing of the building, but focus on creating the guidelines for how it's constructed.
1 An architectural technologist has a broader range of skills than a technician, and will contribute more to the design and construction process, including contract management, certification and post-construction work. Hours and environment. Architectural technicians/technologists usually work from 9am to 5pm from Monday to Friday, although overtime may be necessary to meet deadlines. There is a limited amount of part-time work available. Most work is based in the office, with some time spent visiting clients and sites.
Architectural Technician Salary. (Canada). The average pay for an Architectural Technician is C$42,441 per year. A skill in AutoCAD is associated with high pay for this job. People in this job generally don't have more than 20 years' experience. 
An architectural technologist has a broader range of skills than a technician. They contribute more to the design and construction process, including contract management, certification and post-construction work. Starting salaries may be around £15,000 to £18,000 a year. Hours and environment. Architectural technicians/technologists usually work from 9am to 5pm from Monday to Friday, although overtime may be necessary to meet deadlines. There is a limited amount of part-time work available. Most work is based in the office, with some time spent visiting clients and sites.