Older patients may need medicine to prevent osteoporosis. PMR can occur with a more serious condition, giant cell arteritis. Thus, see your doctor right away if you have PMR and you get symptoms of headache, changes in vision or fever. Updated June 2015. Written by William P. Docken, MD, and reviewed by the American College of Rheumatology Communications and Marketing Committee. This information is provided for general education only.
Polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) is a relatively common chronic inflammatory condition of unknown etiology that affects elderly individuals. It is characterized by proximal myalgia of the hip and shoulder girdles with accompanying morning stiffness that lasts for more than 1 hour. Other risk factors for PMR are an age of 50 years or older and the presence of GCA. An autoimmune process may play a role in PMR development. PMR is associated with the HLA-DR4 haplotype. High level of IL-6 is associated with increased disease activity.
Polymyalgia rheumatica (sometimes referred to as PMR) is a common cause of widespread aching and stiffness that affects adults over the age of 50, especially Caucasians. Because polymyalgia rheumatica does not often cause swollen joints, it may be hard to recognize. Thus, see your doctor right away if you have PMR and you get symptoms of headache, changes in vision or fever. Updated June 2015. Written by William P. Docken, MD, and reviewed by the American College of Rheumatology Communications and Marketing Committee. This information is provided for general education only.
Related condition – giant cell arteritis (GCA). Polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) is sometimes associated with a condition called giant cell arteritis (GCA) , or temporal arteritis, which causes inflammation of the arteries in your head. It can affect your sight, so it needs prompt medical treatment. You’ll probably be prescribed steroid tablets to treat polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR). They often start to work very quickly but you’ll need to continue taking them for some time to keep the inflammation under control and prevent your symptoms coming back.
Definition. Polymyalgia rheumatica is an inflammatory disorder that causes muscle pain and stiffness, especially in the shoulders. Symptoms of polymyalgia rheumatica (pol-e-my-AL-juh rue-MAT-ih-kuh) usually begin quickly and are worse in the morning. Most people who develop polymyalgia rheumatica are older than 65
PMR: PMR is listed as a type of (or associated with) the following medical conditions in our database: 1  Vasculitis. 2  Artery conditions. 3  Arteritis. 4  Blood vessel conditions. 5  Head Conditions. 6  Pain conditions. 7  Nervous system conditions. 8  Non-pathogenic inflammatory conditions. PMR is listed as a  rare disease  by the Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). This means that PMR, or a subtype of PMR, affects less than 200,000 people in the US population.
Polymyalgia rheumatica (which takes its name from the word πολυμυαλγία polymyalgia which means pain in many muscles in medical-scientific Greek) abbreviated as PMR, is a syndrome with pain or stiffness, usually in the neck, shoulders, upper arms, and hips, but which may occur all over the body. 
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, otherwise known as Physiatry, is a unique medical specialty founded in the 1930s to treat neurological and musculoskeletal conditions. Caring for post World War II veterans, served as an important milestone and era of growth for PM&R. 