. Primitive trait: same as plesiomorphy; a character that is present in the common ancestor of a clade; a primitive trait is inferred to be the original character state of that character within the clade under consideration; compare to derived trait. Process cladism: see Phylogenetic Systematics. Evolutionary Systematics is based on identifying and determining the traits of an ancestral species or, more usually, supra-specific taxa. Cladistics rejects the possibity of knowing the actual common ancestor, and instead posits a hypothetical common ancestor.
1 A homoplasy is a shared trait found among different taxa but inferred to have been independently derived and not to have occurred in their common ancestor (i.e., a trait considered to be the same emerged in different taxa independently of each other). 2  An example of this is homeothermy in birds and mammals. Simplicity is often secondarily derived. For example, the absence of mitochondria in the anaerobic protist Entamoeba histolytica is a result of their secondary loss, and when considered in the context of eukaryotes as a whole, is a derived trait.
Primitive trait: same as plesiomorphy; a character that is present in the common ancestor of a clade; a primitive trait is inferred to be the original character state of that character within the clade under consideration; compare to derived trait. Evolutionary Systematics is based on identifying and determining the traits of an ancestral species or, more usually, supra-specific taxa. Cladistics rejects the possibity of knowing the actual common ancestor, and instead posits a hypothetical common ancestor.
D. derived characters. E. novel characters. 12. Characteristics that have arisen in organisms as a result of common evolutionary descent are said to be ______________ characteristics. A. homologous B. homoplastic C. adaptive D. derived E. ancestral 13. One day after a biology class four of your friends argue about the difference between phylogeny and systematics.
1 This trait is a derived character-state (in relation to poikilothermy, the character-state inferred to have been that of the last common ancestor of both groups), which therefore is hypothesized to have evolved independently in these two groups (or at least in the larger clades to which these groups belong). Simplicity is often secondarily derived. For example, the absence of mitochondria in the anaerobic protist Entamoeba histolytica is a result of their secondary loss, and when considered in the context of eukaryotes as a whole, is a derived trait.
Primitive traits are those inherited from distant ancestors. Derived traits are those that just appeared (by mutation) in the most recent ancestor -- the one that gave rise to a newly formed branch. Of course, what's primitive or derived is relative to what branch an organism is on. Now let's compare traits on the lamprey-dolphin-shark-wolf branch. 
Derived characters are used to infer evolutionary relationships, as derived characters evolved after primitive characters. In comparing humans and apes, it can be said that an upright stance in humans is a derived character. diversity -- Term used to describe numbers of taxa, or variation in morphology. 
Convergent evolution creates analogous structures that have similar form or function, but that were not present in the last common ancestor of those groups. The cladistic term for the same phenomenon is homoplasy, from Greek for same form. The recurrent evolution of flight is a classic example of convergent evolution. Functionally similar features arising through convergent evolution are termed analogous, in contrast to homologous structures or traits, which have a common origin, but not necessarily similar function.
I want to ask my audience this question... Traits that are derived from a common ancestor, like similarity in the bones of human arms and bird wings, are said to be ______. Poll responses are kept private. Poll Everywhere lets your audience respond using text messages (SMS), Twitter, or the web in real-time. The best part is you can embed live audience responses and live charts right inside your Microsoft PowerPoint presentation, free!
Whether or not a trait is considered derived depends on the group in question. For example, among the (crown group) tetrapods, having five fingers is the primitive trait-as their last common ancestor bore a five-digit hand. Simplicity is often secondarily derived. For example, the absence of mitochondria in the anaerobic protist Entamoeba histolytica is a result of their secondary loss, and when considered in the context of eukaryotes as a whole, is a derived trait.