Macmillan Publishers is a global trade book publishing company with prominent imprints around the world. Macmillan publishes a broad range of award-winning books for children and adults in all categories and formats. Macmillan Education supports students, instructors and institutions through a lifetime of learning by providing them with world-class content in the most relevant, engaging and flexible formats.
more I'm Publisher and Global Head of the Film, Culture and Media Studies scholarly books programme at Palgrave Macmillan. We publish high-quality research monographs, edited collections and handbooks as well as a number of upper-level texts and scholarly trade non-fiction titles. I'm Publisher and Global Head of the Film, Culture and Media Studies scholarly books programme at Palgrave Macmillan....
Palgrave Macmillan was created in 2000 when St. Martin's Press Scholarly and Reference in the USA united with Macmillan Publishers in the UK to combine their worldwide academic publishing operations. Classical historian Sir Francis Palgrave, who founded the Public Record Office, and his four sons were all closely tied with Macmillan Publishers in the 19th century:
The company was known as simply Palgrave until 2002, but has since been known as Palgrave Macmillan. It is now part of the Macmillan Group and belongs to the German publishing company Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck. Classical historian Sir Francis Palgrave, who founded the Public Record Office, and his four sons were all closely tied with Macmillan Publishers in the 19th century:
In 2008, Palgrave Macmillan published The New Palgrave Dictionary of Economics, 2nd edition, edited by Steven N. Durlauf and Lawrence E. Blume. In 2009 Palgrave Macmillan made over 4,500 scholarly ebooks available to libraries. Classical historian Sir Francis Palgrave, who founded the Public Record Office, and his four sons were all closely tied with Macmillan Publishers in the 19th century:
Search for. Palgrave Macmillan is a global cross-market publisher specializing in quality trade non-fiction and cutting-edge academic books. We publish general interest books as well as textbooks, journals, monographs, professional, and reference works in print and online. We presently have over 5,000 active titles. 
Palgrave Macmillan is headquartered at the Macmillan campus in Kings Cross London with other Macmillan companies including Pan Macmillan, Nature Publishing Group and Macmillan Education, having moved from Basingstoke, Hampshire, England, United Kingdom in 2014. Classical historian Sir Francis Palgrave, who founded the Public Record Office, and his four sons were all closely tied with Macmillan Publishers in the 19th century:
Julian Bond was an advocate for justice and equality. Here at Palgrave Macmillan, we would like to pay tribute to one of the greats, and acknowledge the immeasurable contribution Julian Bond made to the civil rights movement. Palgrave Pivot Sale: 30% off all of our Palgrave Pivots Find out more. The Palgrave Encyclopedia of Imperialism and Anti-Imperialism Our brand new title is the most comprehensive collection of essays studying imperialism and anti-imperialism to date.Find out more.