Why have Collateral Warranties? The appointment of a consultant or the award of a building contract will be between two parties i.e. the developer and the consultant or between the employer and the contractor. Often a third party will need the benefit of the contract even though it is not a party to the contract. The collateral warranty will contain statements to the effect that the consultant or contractor: a) takes proper skill, care and diligence in design;
Explanatory Notes. A Collateral Warranty is an agreement between a consultant or contractor involved in the design and/or construction of a development and a third party, the beneficiary, who acquires an interest in that development. The beneficiary, under his agreement with the developer is likely to have a requirement for collateral warranties. That requirement is imposed on the consultant or contractor in his contract with the developer.
The purpose of a Collateral Warranty agreement is to create a contractual link between the beneficiary and the consultant or contractor involved in its design and construction. The beneficiary, under his agreement with the developer is likely to have a requirement for collateral warranties. That requirement is imposed on the consultant or contractor in his contract with the developer.
A Collateral Warranty is an agreement between a consultant or contractor involved in the design and/or construction of a development and a third party, the beneficiary, who acquires an interest in that development. The beneficiary may be a purchaser or tenant of all or part of the development or a bank or other company providing finance for the development. The purpose of a Collateral Warranty agreement is to create a contractual link between the beneficiary and the consultant or contractor.
Search for a contract: Collateral warranties are used as a supporting document to a primary contract where an agreement needs to be put in place with a third party outside of the primary contract. Collateral warranties often contain obligations that affect the consultant or contractor, such as using materials of an appropriate quality, and carrying out work in a professional, workmanlike manner.
What does a collateral warranty do? This is where the collateral warranty comes in. A collateral warranty is an additional contract between, commonly, a (1) contractor, consultant or subcontractor (warrantor) and (2) an interested third party (beneficiary) giving that third party the right to sue the warrantor. There is still little case law on the operation of third party rights and collateral warranties remain the most common mechanism to give third parties contractual rights of recovery in relation to construction projects.
What is a Collateral Warranty? It is a contract under which a consultant such as an architect or a contractor / sub-contractor warrants to a third party (e.g. a funder, landlord or purchaser) that it has complied with its professional appointment or duties under a building contract. Often a third party will need the benefit of the contract even though it is not a party to the contract. The collateral warranty will contain statements to the effect that the consultant or contractor: a) takes proper skill, care and diligence in design;
The purpose of a collateral warranty is to create a direct contractual relationship between a designer or contractor and a third party with an interest in the building, such as a funder, purchaser or leaseholder. 
A collateral warranty is a contractual arrangement that is directly connected to another principal contract. In other words, it is “collateral” to the main contractual arrangement. Collateral warranties are particularly popular in the building industry. 