There are eight major characteristics of what is called the bureaucratic form.. Your organization likely uses most of these. Virtually all organizations that use the bureaucratic form seem to suffer the same suffocating and immobilizing symptoms that people call bureaucracy.. The characteristics of the bureaucratic organization are: 1. Most employees blame their organization’s bureaucracy on senior management. They assume that management must want it, or it wouldn’t be tolerated.
Structure. Many layers of management are typical for a bureaucratic organization. With a pyramid in mind, the leader or president is at the top of the company, and all other departments cascade underneath that leader. Impersonal. Bureaucratic organizations are impersonal places to work. Individuals are valued by the tasks they perform, and these tasks are specific and detailed. Formal structures exist that limit individual and personal decisions, and policies allow for little deviation from the norm.
Although often associated with excessive paperwork in modern times, a bureaucratic organization was originally intended to have a hierarchical or pyramidal structure to help achieve the most rational and efficient operation at the lowest cost. 
DEFINITION of 'Bureaucracy'. An administrative or social system that relies on a set of rules and procedures, separation of functions and a hierarchical structure in implementing controls over an organization, government or social system. Although some form of bureaucracy is necessary for large, efficiently run organizations, there is much debate over whether the theory is ever manifested in practice. The term is often used in a pejorative way, since many bureaucracies become too large to be efficient, and become dysfunctional as a result.
A bureaucratic organization is a form of management that has a pyramidal command structure. The bureaucratic organization is very organized with a high degree of formality in the way it operates. Organizational charts generally exist for every department, and decisions are made through an organized process. 
A bureaucratic organization is one with rigid and tight procedures, policies and constraints; and the company reacts with stringent controls as well as a reluctance to adapt or change. Impersonal. Bureaucratic organizations are impersonal places to work. Individuals are valued by the tasks they perform, and these tasks are specific and detailed. Formal structures exist that limit individual and personal decisions, and policies allow for little deviation from the norm.
A bureaucracy (/bjuːˈrɒkrəsi/) is a body of non-elective government officials and/or an administrative policy-making group. Historically, bureaucracy was government administration managed by departments staffed with nonelected officials. 
Principles of a Bureaucratic Structure. Employees of a bureaucracy give their obedience to the organization because managers exercise authority through their office or formal position, and the orders or directions are based on the formal rules or laws of the organization. Key features of a bureaucratic structure include a hierarchical organization, with management authority based on rational-legal authority. Rational-legal authority is best understood as the rules and procedure
Power. In bureaucratic organizations, power is concentrated in the hands of a few, high-ranking managers. Decisions about company policy, personnel decisions and financial objectives are made by the highest ranking leaders. Impersonal. Bureaucratic organizations are impersonal places to work. Individuals are valued by the tasks they perform, and these tasks are specific and detailed. Formal structures exist that limit individual and personal decisions, and policies allow for little deviation from the norm.