Medical Definition of CARCINOMATOSIS. : a condition in which multiple carcinomas develop simultaneously usually after dissemination from a primary source. ADVERTISEMENT. New Latin, from Latin carcinomat-, carcinoma.
Abstract. Peritoneal carcinomatosis is a term used to describe widespread metastases of cancerous tumors in the peritoneal cavity. It is most common in carcinomas of the gastrointestinal tract (GIT) and ovaries, and must be considered to be the main diagnosis even when the primary is not known. A wide variety of disease processes mimic peritoneal carcinomatosis.
Top 10 unbelievable historical concurrencies. Peritoneal carcinomatosis is a type of secondary cancer that affects the lining of the abdominal cavity, called the peritoneum. It occurs when cancer metastasizes from another part of the body and implants into the lining. An ultrasound can be used to detect cancer in the abdominal cavity. Peritoneal carcinomatosis is a type of secondary cancer that affects the lining of the abdominal cavity, called the peritoneum. View slideshow of images above. Watch the Did-You-Know slideshow.
Moving toward a new standard of care in treating peritoneal carcinomatosis. CTCA. Peritoneal carcinomatosis is a rare type of cancer that occurs in the peritoneum, the thin layer of tissue that covers abdominal organs and surrounds the abdominal cavity. The disease develops when cancers of the appendix, colon, ovaries or other organs spread to the peritoneum and cause tumors to grow. 
Carcinosis, or carcinomatosis, is disseminated cancer, forms of metastasis, whether used generally or in specific patterns of spread. Carcinomatosis is often restricted to tumors of epithelial origin, adenocarcinomas, while sarcomatosis describes the dissemination of tumors of mesenchymal origin, sarcomas.
Dr Frank Gaillard ◉ et al. Lymphangitic carcinomatosis, or lymphangitis carcinomatosa, is the term given to tumour spread through the lymphatics of the lung, and is most commonly seen secondary to adenocarcinoma. 
In most cases, lymphangitis carcinomatosis is caused by the dissemination of a tumor with its cells along the lymphatics. However, in about 20 percent of cases, the inflammation of the lymphatic tubules (lymphangitis) is caused by a tumor that blocks the drainage of the lymph duct. 
Peritoneal metastases (also known as peritoneal carcinomatosis when extensive) are relatively common particularly in tumours of the abdomen and pelvis and generally imply a poor prognosis, often with a significant impact on palliation. 
Practice Essentials. Leptomeningeal carcinomatosis (LC) is a rare complication of cancer in which the disease spreads to the membranes (meninges) surrounding the brain and spinal cord. LC occurs in approximately 5% of people with cancer and is usually terminal. 