1 Amplitude is measured in decibels. 2  The absolute threshold of human hearing is defined as 0 decibels. 3  Loudness doubles with every 10-decibel increase in amplitude. 4  Pitch, though influenced by amplitude, depends most on the frequency of sound waves. The physical characteristics of sound waves influence the three psychological features of sound: loudness, pitch, and timbre. 1  Loudness depends on the amplitude, or height, of sound waves. 2  The greater the amplitude, the louder the sound perceived. 3 
This article is about the psychological experience. For other uses, see Dissociation (disambiguation) . In psychology, the term dissociation describes a wide array of experiences from mild detachment from immediate surroundings to more severe detachment from physical and emotional experience. 
In physics, sound is a vibration that propagates as a typically audible mechanical wave of pressure and displacement, through a medium such as air or water. In physiology and psychology, sound is the reception of such waves and their perception by the brain. A distinct use of the term sound from its use in physics is that in physiology and psychology, where the term refers to the subject of perception by the brain. The field of psychoacoustics is dedicated to such studies. The physical reception of sound in any hearing organism is limited to a range of frequencies.
1 The absolute threshold of human hearing is defined as 0 decibels. 2  Loudness doubles with every 10-decibel increase in amplitude. 3  Pitch, though influenced by amplitude, depends most on the frequency of sound waves. 4  Frequency is the number of times per second a sound wave cycles from the highest to the lowest point. The physical characteristics of sound waves influence the three psychological features of sound: loudness, pitch, and timbre. 1  Loudness depends on the amplitude, or height, of sound waves. 2  The greater the amplitude, the louder the sound perceived. 3  Amplitude is measured in decibels.
Noun. 1. decibel-a logarithmic unit of sound intensity; 10 times the logarithm of the ratio of the sound intensity to some reference intensity. dB. sound unit-any acoustic unit of measurement. Translations. [ˈdesɪbel] N → decibelio m. decibel. range of human hearing in decibels. n. Abbr. dB.
As examples, if P dB is 10 dB greater than P dB0, then P is ten times P 0. If P dB is 3 dB greater, the power ratio is very close to a factor of two. For sound intensity, I 0 is typically chosen to be 10 −12 W/m 2, which is roughly the threshold of hearing. When this choice is made, the units are said to be dB SIL . In radio electronics, the decibel is used to describe the ratio between two measurements of electrical power. It can also be combined with a suffix to create an absolute unit of electrical power. For example, it can be combined with m for milliwatt to produce the  dBm .
1 The greater the amplitude, the louder the sound perceived. 2  Amplitude is measured in decibels. 3  The absolute threshold of human hearing is defined as 0 decibels. 4  Loudness doubles with every 10-decibel increase in amplitude. The physical characteristics of sound waves influence the three psychological features of sound: loudness, pitch, and timbre. 1  Loudness depends on the amplitude, or height, of sound waves. 2  The greater the amplitude, the louder the sound perceived. 3
The decibel (dB) is a measure of the ratio between two quantities, and is used in a wide variety of measurements in acoustics, physics and electronics. While originally only used for power and intensity ratios, it has come to be used more generally in engineering. In radio electronics, the decibel is used to describe the ratio between two measurements of electrical power. It can also be combined with a suffix to create an absolute unit of electrical power. For example, it can be combined with m for milliwatt to produce the  dBm .
is a subjective measure of sound which can be determined by the intensity of certain component of 'sound' such as the base element of a piece of music which are more likely to travel than higher frequencies. 