Caduet is often used to treat conditions affecting the heart and blood vessels. Caduet ® (amlodipine and atorvastatin) is a combination medication used to treat a variety of conditions related to the heart and blood vessels. It contains amlodipine (Norvasc ®) and atorvastatin (Lipitor ®). The medication comes in tablet form and is typically taken once a day
It contains two medications: amlodipine and atorvastatin. Caduet ® (amlodipine and atorvastatin) is a combination medication used to treat a variety of conditions related to the heart and blood vessels. It contains amlodipine (Norvasc ®) and atorvastatin (Lipitor ®). The medication comes in tablet form and is typically taken once a day
CADUET ® (amlodipine besylate/atorvastatin calcium) tablets are not for everyone, including anyone who has previously had an allergic reaction to CADUET or to any of the inactive ingredients. It is not for those with liver problems. And it is not for women who are nursing, pregnant, or may become pregnant. It is rare, but when you first start taking the amlodipine component of CADUET or increase your dose, you may have a heart attack or your angina may get worse. If that happens, call your doctor right away or go directly to a hospital emergency room. Tell your doctor if you have diabetes.
The combination of amlodipine and atorvastatin is used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension) or chest pain (angina), and to lower the risk of stroke, heart attack, and other heart complications in people with type 2 diabetes, coronary heart disease, or other risk factors. Atorvastatin is in a group of drugs called HMG CoA reductase inhibitors, or  statins .. Atorvastatin reduces levels of bad cholesterol (low-density lipoprotein, or LDL) and triglycerides in the blood, while increasing levels of good cholesterol (high-density lipoprotein, or HDL).
Caduet can also be used for angina (a certain type of chest pain). Caduet can be used in people who have high blood pressure and coronary heart disease (CHD) or who are at risk of CHD (for example, if they have diabetes, a history of stroke, or small blood vessel disease).
Caduet (amlodipine besylate and atorvastatin calcium) is used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension) or chest pain (angina) that occurs with high cholesterol or triglyceride levels. Caduet is a combination of amlodipine, a calcium channel blocker, and atorvastatin, a statin drug. Common side effects include dizziness or lightheadedness as your body adjusts to the medication. Swelling hands/ankles/feet, tiredness, or flushing may also occur
Uses. This product contains 2 medications: amlodipine and atorvastatin. Amlodipine is a calcium channel blocker and is used to treat high blood pressure or prevent chest pain (angina). It works by relaxing the blood vessels so that blood can flow more easily and the heart does not need to work so hard
CADUET ® (amlodipine besylate/atorvastatin calcium) tablets are not for everyone, including anyone who has previously had an allergic reaction to CADUET or to any of the inactive ingredients. It is not for those with liver problems. And it is not for women who are nursing, pregnant, or may become pregnant. CADUET is used in adults who need both NORVASC and LIPITOR. NORVASC ® (amlodipine besylate) is prescribed to treat high blood pressure (hypertension), chest pain (angina) and blocked arteries of the heart (coronary artery disease).
CADUET ® (amlodipine besylate/atorvastatin calcium) combines 2 proven medicines: NORVASC ® (amlodipine besylate) tablets for high blood pressure and LIPITOR ® (atorvastatin calcium) tablets for high cholesterol—in 1 pill to significantly lower high blood pressure and high cholesterol. CADUET is used in adults who need both NORVASC and LIPITOR. NORVASC ® (amlodipine besylate) is prescribed to treat high blood pressure (hypertension), chest pain (angina) and blocked arteries of the heart (coronary artery disease).