College. Graduating from a college is a big deal, which makes many people wonder if a larger monetary gift is required. Millionaire's Corner's survey shows that many people give between $100 and $500 dollars for the college graduation of a relative or close friend. Clearly, there is plenty of debate and discrepancy regarding how much to give a graduate. For example, you might want to give $10 for acquaintances, $20 for a friend or $50 for a close friend or family. When you get graduation announcements in the mail, decide which category the person graduation belongs in (ie friend, family, or acquaintance) and give accordingly.
What you give to a college graduate will depend on how well you  know the person, and what their plans are after graduation. For  example, if the graduate is going into the … business world, a  briefcase might be a good gift. 
Rich friends and relatives are likely to respond more generously to “how much should I give?” Half of Millionaires would give a high school graduate between $100 and $500, and 60 percent would give a college grad between $100 and $500. Accordingly, grads are more likely to get a gift from a woman, but a gift from a man is likely to be a bigger one. More than half the women surveyed (53 percent) say it’s important to give graduation gifts to close friends, compared to 39 percent of men.
For some people giving $20 would be a stretch. I think a lot of how much you give depends on how close you are to these nieces and nephews. If not close--if you don't see them or stay in touch, I'd give a lower amount. I gave $50 to my kids' friends on high school graduation. But for close kids or family, I'd give $100. I am truly shocked. I wouldn't DARE give somebody less than $50 for a graduation gift (HS or college). When I graduated from HS a few years ago, neighbors/family friends gave between $50 and $100. Close family members gave between $150 and $500.
Brides-to-be and expecting parents can also expect to be showered with gifts. Again, how much to spend depends on how close you are to the person. The consensus on Baby Center suggests: $20-$25 for a co-worker or acquaintance, $50 for a close friend, or $100 for a best friend or family member. As for how much to spend: Wedding guests say they’ll spend an average of $108 on gifts, up 15% from 2012. Not all gifts are created equal, however, and consumers will weigh factors like relationship to the bride or groom (45%) and budget at the time of the wedding (33%) before deciding how much to spend.
Most investors (57 percent) say that’s the appropriate amount for a high school grad of a close friend or family member, though 40 percent are more comfortable giving between $100 and $500. Wondering how much to give for a wedding shower gift? Click here to find out what affluent investors have to say. Accordingly, grads are more likely to get a gift from a woman, but a gift from a man is likely to be a bigger one. More than half the women surveyed (53 percent) say it’s important to give graduation gifts to close friends, compared to 39 percent of men.
Most investors (54 percent) say it’s appropriate to give the college grad of a close friend or family member between $100 and $500, though 35 percent say less than $100 is appropriate. Accordingly, grads are more likely to get a gift from a woman, but a gift from a man is likely to be a bigger one. More than half the women surveyed (53 percent) say it’s important to give graduation gifts to close friends, compared to 39 percent of men.
The question of how much you should give to a college graduate as a gift is also important. If it’s a relative and you are an important part of their lives, a college degree was a huge effort on their part, so consider giving between $25 and $50 dollars. Just because there is monetary gift etiquette for college graduation and the grads that achieve success, it doesn’t mean it’s always followed to the letter. Only give what you can afford; if the standard $25 is too high for your budget, consider a lower amount.
(If you say money, how much?) The invitation says,... show more My wife and I have been invited to a 3 hour open house high school graduation party for the daughter of an acquaintance. We are in our 60's, wouldn't we be out of place? What would be a nice gift for an 18 year old girl? I haven't a clue. The daughter of an acquaintance? I wouldn't go to a 3 hours event for that!! I would give a simple, I'm sorry we can't make it, but we already have plans for that date.. I wouldn't spend more than $10-15 on