Cultural Significance. Completed in 1883, the Brooklyn Bridge is one of the oldest suspension bridges in the United States. Spanning almost 1600 feet, it connects Manhattan and Brooklyn, in the state of New York. Residents originally referred to it as the New York and Brooklyn Bridge and even the East River Bridge. 1 Photo of the Brooklyn Bridge by Walker Evans: In addition to Evan’s photo, it includes an explanation of angles of other photos of the Brooklyn Bridge as well as a lesson plan designed to help students analyze and interpret the photo and the significance of this American icon.
Eiffel Tower-Google Cultural Institute. The Eiffel Tower was built by Gustave Eiffel for the 1889 Exposition Universelle, which was to celebrate the 100th year anniversary of the French Revolution. Its construction in 2 years, 2 months and 5 days was a veritable technical and architectural achievement
Some Interesting Facts. Tower Bridge has a fascinating history, which is explored in full in Tower Bridge Exhibition. Here’s some to get your started…. 1910 - the high-level Walkways, which were designed so that the public could still cross the bridge when it was raised, were closed down due to lack of use. Tower Bridge has a fascinating history, which is explored in full in Tower Bridge Exhibition. Here’s some to get your started…
London Bridge was originally the only crossing for the Thames but as the population of London grew, new bridges were needed. At this time the east end of London was a thriving, densely populated port being served by hundreds of boats including Thames Sailing Barges. It wasn’t until October 1884 however, that Horace Jones, the City Architect, in collaboration with John Wolfe Barry, offered the chosen design for Tower Bridge as a solution. It took 8 years and 5 major contractors to complete the new bridge with a total of 432 construction workers working on the project.
The Eiffel Tower is important because while the tower was built as the entrance arch for the 1889 Worlds Fair in Paris, France, it holds much more significance. To overcome cultural skepticism, he desighned and built the ornamental iron tower now named for him as an exhibit for a world's fair in Paris. Originally intended to be temporary, it was derrided by many as an ugly abomination.
Confidence votes 1.4K. Gustave Eiffel was an arcitect and engineer with a strong interest in using the then-new building material of iron to build taller, lighter buildings. To overcome cultural skepticism, he desighned and built the ornamental iron tower now named for him as an exhibit for a world's fair in Paris. Originally intended to be temporary, it was derrided by many as an ugly abomination.
The Brooklyn Bridge is a hybrid cable-stayed / suspension bridge in New York City and is one of the oldest bridges of either type in the United States. Completed in 1883, it connects the boroughs of Manhattan and Brooklyn by spanning the East River. Although the Brooklyn Bridge is technically a suspension bridge, it uses a hybrid cable-stayed /suspension bridge design. The towers are built of limestone, granite, and Rosendale cement.
Long way down: the view looking through the new glass floor at Tower Bridge (Picture: Jeremy Selwyn). London’s newest tourist attraction was unveiled today-a new glass floor in the upper walkways of Tower Bridge. The floor enables visitors to view traffic passing over the bridge or ships passing under its raised bascules from a height of 42 metres.
1952 - a London bus driven by Albert Gunton had to leap from one bascule to the other when the bridge began to rise with the number 78 bus still on it. 1977 - Tower Bridge was painted red, white and blue to celebrate the Queen's Silver Jubilee. (Before that, it was painted a chocolate brown colour). 1982 - Tower Bridge opened to the public for the first time since 1910, with a permanent exhibition inside called The Tower Bridge Experience. Tower Bridge has a fascinating history, which is explored in full in Tower Bridge Exhibition. Here’s some to get your started….