1 For online orders: To print your tickets, you can use the link on your order confirmation page or the link in your email confirmation. 2  If you are ready to print immediately, follow the link on your order confirmation page. 1 If you are ready to print immediately, follow the link on your order confirmation page. 2  If you would like to wait to print your order, you can print using the link in your email confirmation. 3  For phone orders: You will receive an email confirmation once your order is placed.
Birdies for Charity is a fundraising program designed to give participating charities the opportunity to generate contributions for their organization based on the number of “birdies” made by Champions Tour players during the Regions Tradition. Charity begins on the golf course at the Regions Tradition. You have the opportunity to make a charity or a school a big winner by participating in the Birdies for Charity Program. Participating charities receive every single penny of the donations generated!
Fans will have the chance to make a guess of the total number of birdies made by Champions Tour players during the 2016 Regions Tradition. One Grand Prize winner will win $2,500! WEEKLY GIVE-A-WAYS. There will be random drawings each week for prizes starting in December 2015. Charity begins on the golf course at the Regions Tradition. You have the opportunity to make a charity or a school a big winner by participating in the Birdies for Charity Program. Participating charities receive every single penny of the donations generated!
Here's how it works: 1  Purchase your tickets. 2  Print your tickets. 3  For online orders: To print your tickets, you can use the link on your order confirmation page or the link in your email confirmation. 4  For phone orders: You will receive an email confirmation once your order is placed. 1 If you are ready to print immediately, follow the link on your order confirmation page. 2  If you would like to wait to print your order, you can print using the link in your email confirmation. 3  For phone orders: You will receive an email confirmation once your order is placed.
1 If you would like to wait to print your order, you can print using the link in your email confirmation. 2  For phone orders: You will receive an email confirmation once your order is placed. 3  Within that email, you will receive a link to print your order. 1 If you are ready to print immediately, follow the link on your order confirmation page. 2  If you would like to wait to print your order, you can print using the link in your email confirmation. 3  For phone orders: You will receive an email confirmation once your order is placed.
Unlike the mainstream major championships, some of the senior majors have title sponsors, and at present The Tradition is officially known as the  Regions Tradition. It is the only senior major where the winner does not earn an exemption into a PGA Tour or European Tour event. The par-72 layout played at 7,316 yards (6,690 m) in 2009. During the eight years in Oregon, the event was held in mid-to late August. Following the 2010 event, Birmingham, Alabama-based Regions Financial Corporation announced in August that it was taking over sponsorship of the tournament.
The Tradition is one of the five major championships recognized by the U.S.-based Champions Tour, the world's leading tour for professional golfers aged fifty and older. The par-72 layout played at 7,316 yards (6,690 m) in 2009. During the eight years in Oregon, the event was held in mid-to late August. Following the 2010 event, Birmingham, Alabama-based Regions Financial Corporation announced in August that it was taking over sponsorship of the tournament.
The inaugural event was staged in 1989. Unlike the U.S. Senior Open, Senior PGA Championship and The Senior Open Championship, it is not recognized as a major by the European Seniors Tour, and is not part of that tour's official schedule. The par-72 layout played at 7,316 yards (6,690 m) in 2009. During the eight years in Oregon, the event was held in mid-to late August. Following the 2010 event, Birmingham, Alabama-based Regions Financial Corporation announced in August that it was taking over sponsorship of the tournament.
A: It's fast, easy and convenient! Here's how it works: 1  Purchase your tickets. 2  Print your tickets. 3  For online orders: To print your tickets, you can use the link on your order confirmation page or the link in your email confirmation. 4  If you are ready to print immediately, follow the link on your order confirmation page. 1 If you are ready to print immediately, follow the link on your order confirmation page. 2  If you would like to wait to print your order, you can print using the link in your email confirmation. 3  For phone orders: You will receive an email confirmation once your order is placed.