Lavender is used for restlessness, insomnia, nervousness, and depression. It is also used for a variety of digestive complaints including meteorism (abdominal swelling from gas in the intestinal or peritoneal cavity), loss of appetite, vomiting, nausea, intestinal gas (flatulence), and upset stomach. 1 Hair loss in a condition called alopecia areata. 2  There is some evidence that applying lavender oil in combination with oils from thyme, rosemary, and cedarwood might improve hair growth by as much as 44% after 7 months of treatment.
Limonene. Fragrance (Parfum) from natural essential oils. Limonene is a naturally occurring component of essential oils, such as Rosemary Oil, Lemon Oil, Orange Oil, Grapefruit Oil, Bergamot Oil, Fennel Oil and Lavender Oil. Limonene is used in:
Lanolin is a naturally occurring wax that is secreted by the glands of sheep and other wool bearing animals that helps them shed water from their coats. When sheep are sheared in order to use their wool for textiles such as yarn or felt, the wool is first run through rollers in order to extract the lanolin. Using a different pipette for each oil, add the tea tree and lavender essential oils, rosemary extract and vitamin E. Stir well then pour 1.5 oz. of salve (by weight) into each of the two 2 oz. containers. Allow to cool, then cap tightly and store in a cool, dry location.
Lanolin Aloe Vera Lavender Rose Water. Lanolin. Lanolin or wool grease is a natural substance, which is extracted from sheep wool. Extracting Lanolin from shorn wool makes no harm to animal, and most of Lanolin is removed from wool when it is processed to yarn or felt. Lanolin is very close to our skin that is readily absorbed deeply by skin.
Moisturisers are one of the easiest cosmetics to enhance with essential oils. There is a large range of lanolin-free, fragrance-free, hypoallergenic products available. A moisturiser's job is to soothe dry skin, reduce fine lines and provide a little additional help at weatherproofing. Any of the carrier oils can be used; I would suggest Grapeseed oil as it is relatively inexpensive and easy to obtain. Massage oils can also be used as intensive moisturisers for your skin, either by adding a spoonful of a blend to your bath or by applying the oil after bathing.
In fact, the term lanolin is derived from the Latin words lana' meaning wool and oleum' denoting oil. However, chemically, lanolin is not oil, but a kind of wax. To be precise, lanolin is secreted by the sebaceous glands in sheep and shields their coat from rain and other natural elements. The history of lanolin dates back to 8000 years when people first began to use the substance derived from sheep wool. Going by ancient Egyptian history, we find that the primeval Egyptians placed blocks of lanolin on their head.
Liquid Lanolin Our Pure Lanolin is a thick natural moisturizer derived from sheep wool. Use as a skin conditioner, salve, and emollient for sealing your body's moisture. Use in its pure form or mix with other oils. 
From A Consumers Dictionary of Cosmetic Ingredients: Lanolin is a product of the oil glands of sheep. A water-absorbing base material and a natural emulsifier, it absorbs and holds water to the skin. Chemically a wax instead of a fat. (Anhydrous: Does not contain water.) INCI: Lanolin. Shelf life: 1.5 to 2 years when properly stored in a cool place away from heat and direct light, tightly sealed. Soluble in oil, not in water. Lanolin has an ability to absorb up to 300% water. Emulsions which contain lanolin usually have a very good shelf life. This lanolin does NOT containg BHT or any other additives.
Lanolin is derived from the wool after shearing the fleece of sheep and it is interesting to note that extraction of lanolin does not cause any harm to these animals. Normally, 100 pounds of wool or fleece from sheep produce merely two to four pounds of lanolin. The history of lanolin dates back to 8000 years when people first began to use the substance derived from sheep wool. Going by ancient Egyptian history, we find that the primeval Egyptians placed blocks of lanolin on their head.
Sold by weight. Our lanolin (anhydrous, USP a/k/a wool fat, wool wax) is ultra refined and exhibits excellent moisture binding and humectant properties, making it an ideal ingredient for creams, lotions, bar soaps and treatment products where enhanced moisture retention is desired. Lanolin has an ability to absorb up to 300% water. Emulsions which contain lanolin usually have a very good shelf life. This lanolin does NOT containg BHT or any other additives.