PV function. PV, one of the financial functions, calculates the present value of a loan or an investment, based on a constant interest rate. You can use PV with either periodic, constant payments (such as a mortgage or other loan), or a future value that's your investment goal. Use the Excel Formula Coach to find the present value (loan amount) you can afford, based on a set monthly payment.
BREAKING DOWN 'Present Value-PV'. This sounds a bit confusing, but it really isn't. The basis is that receiving $1,000 now is worth more than $1,000 five years from now, because if you got the money now, you could invest it and receive an additional return over the five years. The current worth of a future sum of money or stream of cash flows given a specified rate of return. Future cash flows are discounted at the discount rate, and the higher the discount rate, the lower the present value of the future cash flows.
Photovoltaics are best known as a method for generating electric power by using solar cells to convert energy from the sun into a flow of electrons. The photovoltaic effect refers to photons of light exciting electrons into a higher state of energy, allowing them to act as charge carriers for an electric current. With current technology, photovoltaics recoups the energy needed to manufacture them in 1.5 to 2.5 years in Southern and Northern Europe, respectively. Solar PV is now, after hydro and wind power, the third most important renewable energy source in terms of globally installed capacity.
DEFINITION of 'Present Value-PV'. The current worth of a future sum of money or stream of cash flows given a specified rate of return. Future cash flows are discounted at the discount rate, and the higher the discount rate, the lower the present value of the future cash flows. Determining the appropriate discount rate is the key to properly valuing future cash flows, whether they be earnings or obligations. Also referred to as discounted value
Photovoltaics (PV) is the name of a method of converting solar energy into direct current electricity using semiconducting materials that exhibit the photovoltaic effect, a phenomenon commonly studied in physics, photochemistry and electrochemistry. With current technology, photovoltaics recoups the energy needed to manufacture them in 1.5 to 2.5 years in Southern and Northern Europe, respectively. Solar PV is now, after hydro and wind power, the third most important renewable energy source in terms of globally installed capacity.
Investopedia explains Present Value (PV). This may sound confusing, but it really is not. The basic idea is that receiving $1,000 now is worth more than receiving $1,000 five years from now, because a person who has money today can invest it and receive an additional return over the five years. Present Value. The worth of a future amount of money at specific point in time. If one expects an investment to result in a cash flow at a certain time in the future, calculating the cash flow's present value will help the investor decide whether the investment results in a real profit.
polycythemia rubra vera (PV). Etymology: Gk, polys, many, kytos, cell, haima, blood, L, ruber, red, verus, true. a condition of unknown cause characterized by a marked increase in the red blood cell count, packed cell volume, cellular hemoglobin, leukocytes, platelets, and total blood volume. The skin and mucous membranes acquire a maroon or plum color, and hepatomegaly, splenomegaly, hypertension, and neurologic symptoms develop.
Photovoltaic (PV) devices generate electricity directly from sunlight via a process that naturally occurs in some materials. Within a certain class of crystals, electrons are freed when tiny packets of light from the sun — called photons — are absorbed. These electrons can be induced to travel through a circuit as electricity. Solar cells are made from semiconductors such as silicon. They are designed with a positive and a negative layer to create an electric field similar to that of a battery. Configuring many cells in a circuit is the basis for a solar PV panel.
If you have PV, your bone marrow makes too many red blood cells. It also can make too many white blood cells and platelets. A mutation, or change, in the body's JAK2 gene is the major cause of PV. This gene makes a protein that helps the body produce blood cells. What causes the change in the JAK2 gene isn't known. Polycythemia vera (POL-e-si-THEE-me-ah VAY-rah or VE-rah), or PV, is a rare blood disease in which your body makes too many red blood cells. The extra red blood cells make your blood thicker than normal. As a result, blood clots can form more easily