Neoplasm (from Ancient Greek νέος- neo new and πλάσμα plasma formation, creation) is an abnormal growth of tissue, and when also forming a mass is commonly referred to as a tumor or tumour. A neoplasm can be benign, potentially malignant (pre-cancer), or malignant (cancer). 1  Benign tumors include uterine fibroids and melanocytic nevi (skin moles). 2  They are circumscribed and localized and do not transform into cancer. 3  Potentially-malignant neoplasms include carcinoma in situ
Differentiation is the grade of the cancer and it is based on how abnormal the cells look under the microscope. Cancers that are higher grade or poorly differentiated tend to be more aggressive – to grow and spread more quickly. Colon cancer is usually divided into 3 grades: 1  Well differentiated (low grade). Adenocarcinoma is a type of cancer that starts in the cells that form glands making mucus to lubricate the inside of the colon and rectum. This is the most common type of colon cancer.
The cecum is the beginning of the colon where the small intestine empties into the large intestine. The ascending colon, transverse colon, descending colon, sigmoid colon, and rectum are other parts of the colon after the cecum. The colon ends at the rectum and waste exits through the anus. Adenocarcinoma is a type of cancer that starts in the cells that form glands making mucus to lubricate the inside of the colon and rectum. This is the most common type of colon cancer.
The cecum is the beginning of the colon where the small intestine empties into the large intestine. The ascending colon, transverse colon, descending colon, sigmoid colon and rectum are other parts of the colon after the cecum. 
The cecum or caecum (/ˈsiːkəm/ , plural ceca /ˈsiːkə/ ; from the Latin caecus meaning blind) is an intraperitoneal pouch, that is considered to be the beginning of the large intestine. It receives chyme from the ileum, and connects to the ascending colon of the large intestine. It is separated from the ileum by the ileocecal valve (ICV) or Bauhin's valve. It is also separated from the colon by the cecocolic junction. The appendix is connected to the cecum. The term cecum comes from the Latin caecum, literally blind, here in the sense blind gut or  cul de sac . In dissections by the Greek philosophers, the connection between the ileum of the small intestines and the cecum was not fully understood.
Cecum: The first portion of the large bowel, which is situated in the lower-right quadrant of the abdomen. The cecum receives fecal material from the small bowel (ileum), which opens into it. 
Tumor is not synonymous with cancer. While cancer is by definition malignant, a tumor can be benign, precancerous, or malignant. The terms mass and nodule are often used synonymously with tumor. Generally speaking, however, the term tumor is used generically, without reference to the physical size of the lesion. A neoplasm can be benign, potentially malignant (pre-cancer), or malignant (cancer). 1  Benign tumors include uterine fibroids and melanocytic nevi (skin moles). 2  They are circumscribed and localized and do not transform into cancer. 3  Potentially-malignant neoplasms include carcinoma in situ
» Treatments for Cancer. Introduction: Neoplasm is a medical term that refers to a new growth of cells. Whereas neo means new and plasm refers to cells, the word neoplasm refers to abnormal overgrowth of cells rather than healthy new cell growth. It is often used interchangeably with words such as tumor and cancer. 
1 Secondary neoplasm refers to any of a class of cancerous tumor that is either a metastatic offshoot of a primary tumor, or an apparently unrelated tumor that increases in frequency following certain cancer treatments such as chemotherapy or radiotherapy. A neoplasm can be benign, potentially malignant (pre-cancer), or malignant (cancer). 1  Benign tumors include uterine fibroids and melanocytic nevi (skin moles). 2  They are circumscribed and localized and do not transform into cancer. 3  Potentially-malignant neoplasms include carcinoma in situ