Goodman SSX16 air conditioner. The unit on the low end of the American Standard range, the Silver SI has a SEER of 13. Goodman air conditioners can have a SEER of 18 on the high end and 13 on the low end. Energy efficiency. Efficiency is an important point when comparing American Standard vs Goodman air conditioners. Home cooling can be costly, so a higher upfront cost for a more efficient unit can save money over the long term. American Standard offers a broader range of efficiency from its units than Goodman does.
This guide provides a very basic overview of the pros and cons of American Standard's air conditioners. Since the 1880s, American Standard has been one of the biggest HVAC manufacturers in the country. The company stands on clean energy principles and works hard to cut energy costs by producing efficient units. If you have any other questions, your contractor will be happy to answer them for you. When you choose an American Standard air conditioner, you are investing in a company you can trust. Use Reply! to find quality contractors in your area.
Both American Standard and Goodman air conditioners are durable. Some Goodman models offer a lifetime warranty on the air conditioner's compressor. The longest warranty you can get on an American Standard unit's compressor is 12 years. Energy efficiency. Efficiency is an important point when comparing American Standard vs Goodman air conditioners. Home cooling can be costly, so a higher upfront cost for a more efficient unit can save money over the long term. American Standard offers a broader range of efficiency from its units than Goodman does.
I'm replacing my furnace and AC unit. I live in Schaumburg, a suburb of Chicago. I was quoted a price of $4545 pre tax rebate for an American Standard Allegiance 13 2.5 ton, 13 seer air conditioner (model 4A7B3030) and American Standard Freedom 95 Single Stage, 95% efficient furnace (model AUH0601B936). Is this a good price? Price is good. If you spend a bit more with the recommendations below you can really have a nicer system though. Ask for the 2-stage 95% gas furnace. 2 stages makes a world of difference in comfort and may help with efficiency too. It shouldn't cost much more.
Supply and install an American Standard Platinum ZV-80,000 Btu’s, 96.7% A.F.U.E efficiency gas furnace and an American Standard Platinum ZM- 16.25 S.E.E.R 3 ton air conditioning unit for your home. 
American Standard air conditioners range in price from about $1500 to $2500 and up, not including installation costs which typically add an additional $500 to $1000. The price of the AC depends on the model, the size and output, the efficiency (SEER) rating, and where you live, among other things. The brand offers comfort and energy efficient air conditioners that can last even on humid and hot days.
American Standard air conditioner units are an excellent choice for homeowners who want to conserve energy. Reducing energy usage is one of the best things you can do for both the planet and your wallet. When you purchase an energy-efficient air conditioner, you are investing in a lifetime of savings. If you have any other questions, your contractor will be happy to answer them for you. When you choose an American Standard air conditioner, you are investing in a company you can trust. Use Reply! to find quality contractors in your area.
Ask about American Standard air conditioners! American Standard has several categories of air conditioner prices. While your final air conditioner estimate may vary depending on your warranty needs and which contractor you hire to install air conditioner units for you. If you have any other questions, your contractor will be happy to answer them for you. When you choose an American Standard air conditioner, you are investing in a company you can trust. Use Reply! to find quality contractors in your area.
Raising The Standard. For over 140 years, American Standard has led the way in developing innovative bathroom and kitchen products including high performance toilets, stylish faucets, and wellness products that have set and re-set the standards for living healthy, living responsibly, and living beautifully. 
American Standard Air Conditioners Price List. This American Standard air conditioners price list will help you compare models to one another, or to other brands. The prices we offer are not straight from American Standard but are gathered through reader input as well as our monitoring of the market. We’ve compiled AC price lists for Bryant, Lennox, Rheem and many other of today’s leading brands. See our central air conditioner reviews for more details on many of these models too. Here’s an overview of the 3 American Standard air conditioner series along with complete pricing information. Filed under ac price lists, American Standard Central Air Conditioner Prices, American Standard Central Air Conditioner Prices, Central Air Conditioner Prices, HVAC Prices · Tagged with.