If you were. 1  an Illinois resident, you must file Form IL-1040 if. 2  you were required to file a federal income tax return, or. 3  you were not required to file a federal income tax return, but your Illinois base income from Line 9 is greater than your Illinois exemption allowance. 1 you were required to file a federal income tax return, or. 2
1 an Illinois resident who was claimed as a dependent on your parents’ or another person’s return, you must file Form IL-1040 if. 2  your Illinois base income from Line 9 is greater than $2,125, or. 3  you want a refund of Illinois Income Tax withheld from your pay. 1 you were required to file a federal income tax return, or. 2  you were not required to file a federal income tax return, but your Illinois base income from Line 9 is greater than your Illinois exemption allowance.
According to the Illinois Tax Center: If you file your return electronically and have your refund directly deposited into your checking or savings account, you will receive your refund faster. If you file a paper return, you should allow as long as 15 weeks for your refund. For more information about filing your Illinois state tax return and locating your refund, visit the Illinois Department of Revenue. Illinois Tax Center issues most refunds within 21 business days. You may check the status of your refund on-line at Illinois Tax Center. You can start checking on the status of your return within 24 hours after they have received your e-filed return or 4 weeks after you mail a paper return
Using efile and direct deposit is the fastest way to get your Illinois state tax refund. If you efile an Illinois state tax return, your refund will generally be processed within 1 week. If you file a paper return, it could take as long as 15 weeks to receive your state refund. Check your Illinois tax refund status. IL efile Error Codes View a list of all Illinois State efile Income Tax Return Error Reject Codes. Illinois Tax Facts IL Income Tax: Illinois taxes individual income at a single flat rate. If you are filing an Illinois tax amendment, you may need to file a federal tax amendment as well. 2013 Past Year IL Tax Forms Illinois tax returns for 2013 and other past tax years cannot be prepared and filed online. Download, fill out, and mail your 2013 IL return to the Illinois Department of Revenue.
The best way to check the status of your federal tax refund is to visit the Where’s My Refund page at the IRS website, or, call 1-800-829-1954, or 1-800-829-4477, or 1-800-829-1040 and inquire about your tax return status with an IRS a customer service representative. The refund schedule should be the same if you filed for a tax extension, however, there is no official schedule for tax refunds for amended tax returns. The above list only includes dates for e-filing an original tax return. Amended tax returns are processed manually, and often take 8-12 weeks to process.
1 an Illinois resident, you must file Form IL-1040 if. 2  you were required to file a federal income tax return, or. 3  you were not required to file a federal income tax return, but your Illinois base income from Line 9 is greater than your Illinois exemption allowance. 1 you were required to file a federal income tax return, or. 2
For more specific information about the status of your refund after the Illinois Department of Revenue has finished processing it, you can check the Illinois Comptroller's Find Your Illinois Tax Refund System. If you are calling on behalf of someone else (this includes tax preparers inquiring about a client’s return), you must be able to verify the information as above for the account and you must be named as the third-party designee on the tax return or authorized by the taxpayer on Form IL-2848, Power of Attorney.
Visit the Income Tax Refund Status Inquiry System to find out if the Illinois Department of Revenue has initiated the refund process. The Income Tax Refund Status Inquiry System should provide you an estimated date for when you will receive your refund. If you are calling on behalf of someone else (this includes tax preparers inquiring about a client’s return), you must be able to verify the information as above for the account and you must be named as the third-party designee on the tax return or authorized by the taxpayer on Form IL-2848, Power of Attorney.