A child's baby teeth (primary teeth) begin to loosen and fall out to make room for permanent teeth at about age 6. The first baby teeth to fall out are typically the two bottom front teeth (lower central incisors) and the two top front teeth (upper central incisors), followed by the lateral incisors, molars and canines. Molars typically fall out between ages 9 and 12 and are replaced by permanent teeth by about age 13.
The following chart shows when your child's primary teeth (also called baby teeth or deciduous teeth) should erupt and shed. Eruption times vary from child to child. As seen from the chart, the first teeth begin to break through the gums at about 6 months of age. Usually, the first two teeth to erupt are the two bottom central incisors (the two bottom front teeth). Next, the top four front teeth emerge.
Some children lose their first tooth as early as 4 or as late as 7. Generally, the younger the child was when the teeth came in, the earlier they fall out. It's possible for kids to lose a baby tooth too early, before the permanent tooth is ready to erupt, because of an accident or dental disease. First in, first out. A child's 20 baby teeth, which typically come in by age 3, usually fall out in the order in which they came in. That means the lower center teeth (lower center incisors) are usually the first to go, around age 5 or 6.
Losing baby teeth is seldom as painful a process as teething. If your 5- or 6-year-old complains of pain in the back of his mouth, it's probably the 6-year molars coming in. (He has no baby teeth there to fall out first). First in, first out. A child's 20 baby teeth, which typically come in by age 3, usually fall out in the order in which they came in. That means the lower center teeth (lower center incisors) are usually the first to go, around age 5 or 6.
Most children lose their baby teeth in this order: Baby teeth ordinarily are shed first at about age 6 when the incisors, the middle teeth in front, become loose. Molars, in the back, are usually shed between ages 10 and 12, and are replaced with permanent teeth by about age 13. 
The complete set of primary teeth is in the mouth from the age of 2 ½ to 3 years of age to 6 to 7 years of age. Other primary tooth eruption facts: 1  A general rule of thumb is that for every 6 months of life, approximately 4 teeth will erupt. Eruption times vary from child to child. As seen from the chart, the first teeth begin to break through the gums at about 6 months of age. Usually, the first two teeth to erupt are the two bottom central incisors (the two bottom front teeth). Next, the top four front teeth emerge.
At age six or seven, the first adult (or permanent) teeth come in. They are known as the first molars, or the six-year molars.. They come in at the back of the mouth, behind the last baby (or primary) teeth. They do not replace any primary teeth. Also at around age six, children start to lose their primary teeth. The roots slowly get weak, and the tooth falls out. Children lose primary teeth until they are about 12 years old. It's okay for children to wiggle their primary teeth if they are loose.
Your child will begin losing his/her primary teeth (baby teeth) around the age of 6. The first teeth to be lost are usually the central incisors. This is then followed by the eruption of the first permanent molars. The last baby tooth is usually lost around the age of 12, and is the cuspid or second molar. Usually, after the child reaches two years old, the four second molars (the last of the baby teeth) appear. The teeth on the upper jaw usually erupt one to two months after the same tooth on the lower jaw. There are a total of 20 primary teeth.
Babies' teeth begin to develop before they are born, but in most cases don't come through until they're between 6 and 12 months old. Most children have a full set of 20 milk or baby teeth by the time they're three years old. When they reach five or six, these teeth will start to fall out, making way for adult teeth. By the age of 12 to 14, most children have lost all their baby teeth and have their adult teeth. There are 32 adult teeth in total, 12 more than in the baby set.
Timeframe. According to Parents.com, most children start to loose their baby teeth when they are between 5 and 6 years old. However, the normal timespan can vary by several years. Some children start to lose teeth as early as age 4, while it may not happen for others until they reach 8 years old. Typically, children begin losing their baby teeth by age 6 or 7, although again, there is a wide range of what's typical....