A butte /bjuːt/ is an isolated hill with steep, often vertical sides and a small, relatively flat top; buttes are smaller than mesas, plateaus, and table landforms. In some regions, such as the Midwestern United States and Northwestern United States, the word is used for any hill. In many cases, buttes have been given other names that do not use the word butte, for example, Courthouse Rock, Nebraska. Also, some large hills that are technically not buttes have names using the word butte, examples of which are Kamiak Butte and Chelan Butte in Washington State.
Buttes, of course! A butte is a prominent isolated hill with steep sides and a small, flat top. In fact, the word “ butte ” comes from a French word meaning “small hill.”. A related geological feature is the mesa, which is distinguished from the butte by its much larger size. Buttes, for example, usually have a surface area of less than 10,000 square feet.
Noun. 1. butte-a hill that rises abruptly from the surrounding region; has a flat top and sloping sides. western United States, West-the region of the United States lying to the west of the Mississippi River. hill-a local and well-defined elevation of the land; they loved to roam the hills of West Virginia.
Among the well-known non-flat-topped buttes in the United States are Bear Butte, South Dakota, and Black Butte, Oregon. In many cases, buttes have been given other names that do not use the word butte, for example, Courthouse Rock, Nebraska. Also, some large hills that are technically not buttes have names using the word butte, examples of which are Kamiak Butte and Chelan Butte in Washington State.
A mesa's and butte's characteristic shape—flat top and clifflike sides—is due to the layers of rock forming them. These landforms are most often composed of sedimentary rock, formed by the accumulation and compression of sediment (which may consist of rock fragments, remains of microscopic organisms, and minerals). A mesa is an isolated, flat-topped hill or mountain with steep sides that is smaller in area than a plateau. A butte is also a flat-topped hill with steep sides, though smaller in area than a mesa. Plateaus develop in a few ways, all of which are directly related to the internal heat forces of Earth.
The word butte comes from a French word meaning small hill; its use is prevalent in the Western United States, including the southwest, where mesa is also used for the larger landform. Because of their distinctive shapes, buttes are frequently landmarks in plains and mountainous areas. In many cases, buttes have been given other names that do not use the word butte, for example, Courthouse Rock, Nebraska. Also, some large hills that are technically not buttes have names using the word butte, examples of which are Kamiak Butte and Chelan Butte in Washington State.
In differentiating mesas and buttes, geographers use the rule that a mesa has a top wider than its height, while a butte's top is narrower. Three classic buttes are Scotts Bluff in Nebraska, Crested Butte in Colorado, and Elephant Butte in New Mexico. A butte is a conspicuous isolated hill with steep, often vertical sides and a small, relatively flat top; buttes are smaller than mesas, plateaus, and table landforms. In some regions, such as the north central and northwestern United States, the word is used for any hill
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Elephant Butte Reservoir is a reservoir on the Rio Grande in the U.S. state of New Mexico, 5 miles (8.0 km) north of Truth or Consequences. The reservoir is also part of the largest state park in New Mexico, Elephant Butte Lake State Park. The reservoir is part of the Rio Grande Project, a project to provide power and irrigation to south-central New Mexico and west Texas. It was filled starting between 1915 and 1916.
The word butte comes from a French word meaning small hill; its use is prevalent in the western United States, including the southwest, where mesa is also used. Because of their distinctive shapes, buttes are frequently landmarks in plains and mountainous areas. A butte is a conspicuous isolated hill with steep, often vertical sides and a small, relatively flat top; buttes are smaller than mesas, plateaus, and table landforms. In some regions, such as the north central and northwestern United States, the word is used for any hill