Venereal warts are generally spread through direct skin-to-skin contact during vaginal, anal and oral sex with someone who is infected. HPV can also be spread from mother to child (usually found in the child's throat or mouth) during birth.
A Honor Society of Nursing (STTI) answered. Genital warts are a sexually transmitted disease, which means they can be spread through any type of sex, including oral sex. The infection is caused by a virus (the human papillomavirus, or HPV) that is spread from person to person through skin contact. That means that any kind of sex-vaginal intercourse, anal sex, and oral sex-can spread genital warts.
Yes, genital warts can be spread by any kind of contact. The cause of genital warts is HPV, which is a virus spread from person to person. Usually vigorous skin to skin or skin to mucosa contact is required. Bi-directional transmission can be seen with oral intercourse.
They are highly contagious. A person with genital warts can pass the HPV infection to his or her sexual partner, but some seem immune. 4. People usually get genital warts by coming in direct contact with warts on a partner’s genitals or anus during vaginal, anal or oral sex. 5.
3. They are highly contagious. A person with genital warts can pass the HPV infection to his or her sexual partner, but some seem immune. 4. People usually get genital warts by coming in direct contact with warts on a partner’s genitals or anus during vaginal, anal or oral sex. 5.
The warts may be found in the mouth, eye lids, nose or other mucous membranes, but may also be present on the dog's skin on the limbs or other areas. The papilloma virus is contagious to other canines and may be transmitted through: 1  Direct contact with dog warts.
Dog warts are growths that are caused by the papilloma virus. The warts are most commonly found in the eye and mouth area. The warts are contagious and may be transmitted to other canines, but cannot be transmitted to humans. The warts are not a health threat and typically go away without treatment.