A promissory note is generally thought of as a glorified IOU--which it more or less is--but a lesser known fact (by the general public) is that when endorsed, it becomes a negotiable instrument, i.e. a check or bill of exchange.
A promissory note is defined as an instrument in  writing (not being a bank note or a currency note), containing an  unconditional undertaking signed by the maker, to pay a … certain sum  of money only to or to the order of a certain person, or to the  bearer of the instrument.
Promissory notes that are unconditional and saleable become negotiable instruments that are extensively used in business transactions in numerous countries. A promissory note is usually held by the payee. Once the debt has been discharged, it must be canceled by the payee and returned to the issuer.
A promissory note is generally thought of as a glorified IOU--which it more or less is--but a lesser known fact (by the general public) is that when endorsed, it becomes a negotiable instrument, i.e. a check or bill of exchange.
A promissory note that may otherwise be negotiable can be made non-negotiable by adding the words “NOT NEGOTIABLE” to the note. This added language does not, however, work to make checks non-negotiable. Incomplete Instruments. In some cases, a check, promissory note, or other signed piece of paper intended to serve as a negotiable instrument may be missing some necessary piece of information that the signer intended to include.
Another common negotiable instrument with which you also may be familiar is a promissory note, such as you might sign in order to get a business loan, or possibly to document a deal to exchange property for money.
Promissory Notes Law & Legal Definition. Promissory Note: A promissory note is a written promise to pay a debt. An unconditional promise to pay on demand or at a fixed or determined future time a particular sum of money to or to the order of a specified person or to the bearer.
If signed by the maker, a promissory note is a negotiable instrument. It contains an unconditional promise to pay a certain sum to the order of a specifically named person or to bearer—that is, to any individual presenting the note. A promissory note can be either payable on demand or at a specific time.