My inspiration for subject matter is based on portraiture, the human figure and I am currently doing a portrait of Harold Hunt, Aboriginal author and activist and at the same time a second portrait of Kate Bracks, the 2011 Winner of the Australian 'Masterchef' series. Fine Artist and painter of the human form and portraiture.The two art disciplines I work in are painting and drawing. My preferred medium is oil on canvas and I like to use a mixed media approach to drawing.
Newman was born in Los Angeles, California, the son of Mississippi-born Martha Louis (nee Née) montgomery And hollywood Composer Alfred. Newman he is the brother Of Thomas, Newman Maria newman and the cousin Of Randy, newman all of whom are also. Composers he is also the nephew of Composers Lionel newman And Emil. newman He is the brother of Thomas Newman, Maria Newman and the cousin of Randy Newman, all of whom are also composers. He is also the nephew of composers Lionel Newman and Emil Newman. An accomplished violinist, and successful concert conductor, Newman was educated at the University of Southern California.
Writer | Producer. David Newman was born on February 4, 1937 in New York City, New York, USA. He was a writer and producer, known for Superman (1978), Bonnie and Clyde (1967) and Superman II (1980). He was married to Leslie Newman. The first, but not the last, person named David Newman to be nominated for an Academy Award. Composer David Newman (I) was nominated in 1997 for scoring the film Anastasia (1997).
Life and career [edit]. Newman was born in Los Angeles, California, the son of Mississippi-born Martha Louis (nee Née) montgomery And hollywood Composer Alfred. Newman he is the brother Of Thomas, Newman Maria newman and the cousin Of Randy, newman all of whom are also. composers He is the brother of Thomas Newman, Maria Newman and the cousin of Randy Newman, all of whom are also composers. He is also the nephew of composers Lionel Newman and Emil Newman. An accomplished violinist, and successful concert conductor, Newman was educated at the University of Southern California.
Continue reading the main story. David (Fathead) Newman, a soft-spoken, sweet-toned jazz and rhythm-and-blues saxophonist who made his name in Ray Charles’s bands from the 1950s to the early ’70s, died on Tuesday in Kingston, N.Y. He was 75 and lived in Woodstock, N.Y. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Karen Newman. 
Life and career [edit]. Newman was born in Los Angeles, California, the son of Mississippi-born Martha Louis (nee Née) montgomery And hollywood Composer Alfred. newman He is the brother of Thomas Newman, Maria Newman and the cousin of Randy Newman, all of whom are also composers. He is also the nephew of composers Lionel Newman and Emil Newman. An accomplished violinist, and successful concert conductor, Newman was educated at the University of Southern California.
Born 1952,Nowra New South Wales, Australia. Fine Artist and painter of the human form and portraiture.The two art disciplines I work in are painting and drawing. My preferred medium is oil on canvas and I like to use a mixed media approach to drawing.
David Newman is a sacred chant master, recording artist, singer/songwriter, best-selling author, and inspirational teacher. David, also known as Durga Das, travels extensively sharing his music, and teachings on the path of love as a vehicle for spiritual awakening. 
I have been studying fine art with David Newman-White for eight years now, both through home tuition and also his annual Norman Lindsay workshops which are run through the Norman Lindsay Gallery & Museum (National Trust) at Faulconbridge, New South Wales. David is an exceptional teacher with whom I previously studied for two years at Meadowbank TAFE. Under his tuteladge, my drawing skills improved dramatically. He pushes students to take their work to the limit while at the same time appreciates that students may have styles and interests that differ from his own.