BRENDA (BRaunschweig ENzyme DAtabase) is an enzyme information system representing one of the most comprehensive enzyme repositories. 
Origin of the name Brenda: Of uncertain origin and meaning, Brenda is thought to be a Celtic name originating in the Shetland Islands and derived fro brandr (the blade of a sword). Alternatively, it might be a feminine form of the obsolete Brandolf (sword wolf). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Possibly a feminine form of the Old Norse name Brandr, meaning sword, which was brought to Britain in the Middle Ages. This name is sometimes used as a feminine form of BRENDAN. 
Brenda Name Meaning. The meaning of Brenda is “Sword”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. 
Meaning of name Brenda. Etymology: Possibly a feminine form of the Old Norse name Brandr, meaning sword, which was brought to Britain in the Middle Ages. Saint : Origin: English. 
Brenda /bren-da/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced BREN-dah. It is of Old Norse origin, and the meaning of Brenda is  sword . Related to the English word brand, meaning to mark by burning. Until the 20th century, the name was used mainly in Scotland and Ireland. Brenda is a very prominent first name for females (#31 out of 4276, Top 1%) and also a very prominent last name for both adults and children (#59147 out of 150436, Top 39%).
[ 2 syll. bren-da, br-e- nda ] The baby girl name Brenda is pronounced as BR EH ND-ah †. Brenda is an English and Irish name of Old Norse origin. The name may be a short form of various compound names with the element 'brandr' (meaning sword, torch). It is sometimes taken as the feminine form of the Old Irish Brendan, despite the difference in their origins.
Scottish name. In Scottish, the name Brenda means-From the Norse, meaning sword or torch, this name was originally used only in the Shetland Isles of Scotland, but spread to other parts of the English-speaking world after Brenda appeared as a heroine in Sir Walter Scotts 1822 novel The Pirate.. Scottish Name Meaning-From the Norse, meaning sword or torch, this name was originally used only in the Shetland Isles of Scotland, but spread to other parts of the English-speaking world after Brenda appeared as a heroine in Sir Walter Scotts 1822 novel The Pirate. Origin-Scottish.
The name Brenda is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Brenda is: Sword. Gaelic Meaning: The name Brenda is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Brenda is: Little raven. Irish Meaning: The name Brenda is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Brenda is: Prince, little raven, or beacon on the hill. Some scholars believe Brendan means 'stinking hair'. Norse Meaning: The name Brenda is a Norse baby name. In Norse the meaning of the name Brenda is: Norse masculine name Brand, meaning sword or torch.