Let me be more positive: there are some superb plants involved here, one of which was recognized by the Florida Nurserymen and Growers Association as a Plant of the Year for the year 2000. This plant is one of two that have been grown in the United States under the name Ficus 'Green Island'.
One of my favorite trees for indoor bonsai is the Chinese Banyan, scientific name is Ficus microcarpa. In the tropical foliage trade the same tree is called Ficus nitida or microcarpa. In this article I will refer to it as Ficus microcarpa or the Chinese banyan.
Description: Ficus lyrata is the fiddle leaf fig – so called because of its violin-shaped, puckered leaves. For the indoor plant, the leaves can be as much as 38cm (15 inch) long and 22cm (9 inch) wide with wavy edges.
1 Sycamore Fig, or Sycomore Fig, (Ficus sycomorus), also known as Fig-mulberry. 2  This is a large tree, growing to 20 m tall and 6 m wide with a dense round crown of spreading branches.
Ficus is a pan-tropical genus of trees, shrubs and vines, they are native throughout the tropics with a few species extending into the semi warm temperate zones. Fig tree species occupy a wide variety of ecological niches, mostly specific rainforest canopy niches.
Ficus microcarpa var. crassifolia (Ficus 'Green Mound' see below for a note on this name) has heavy-textured leaves a little more than twice as long as wide-about four inches by almost two inches. They are widest a little above the midpoint of the blade (that is, obovate) with a blunt but obviously pointed tip.
The fruit is a green fig 3cm (1 inch) diameter. Description: Ficus lyrata is the fiddle leaf fig – so called because of its violin-shaped, puckered leaves. For the indoor plant, the leaves can be as much as 38cm (15 inch) long and 22cm (9 inch) wide with wavy edges. The plant tends to remain single stemmed.
Botanical Name: Ficus lyrata. Enormous leaves shaped like violins make Fiddle Leaf Fig a dramatic accent. In its native habitat, this fig tree from the Moraceae family will reach 40 ft (12 m) tall. Fortunately, it grows very slowly and stays much shorter when grown indoors. Controlling its height is easy to do.
The four leaves on the left are from different varieties of Ficus microcarpa. The leaf on the right is from Ficus benjamina. A round leaf variety of Ficus microcarpa, often called Green Island Fig In Taiwan I viewed three different clones of Ficus microcarpa with leaf size varying from small, medium, and normal.
The common collective name for the Ficus genus is Fig Trees or Figs. There are about 850 species of Ficus in this genus, most types are comprised of trees, however some species of Figs exhibit shrub, vine, epiphyte, and hemiepiphyte growth types.