How to Smoke Pulled Pork Shoulder. If you have a smoker, this well-seasoned pork sandwich recipe is for you. It makes 14 to 18 servings so invite the neighbors and pick up enough buns and condiments. While the prep time is about 15 minutes, plan on a smoke time of 4 to 5 hours. 4. Pull the Pork & Serve. 1  Remove the meat from smoker and cover with foil. 2  Let stand for 15 minutes, which gives it time to redistribute the juices. 3  Using a large carving knife, cut the meat into large pieces.
Smoking: The smoke of pulled pork is provided by hickory and/or oak. While you can use any mild wood these are the traditional woods. You will want an even temperature around 225 degree F. You need to keep the smoker temperature below 265 degrees F. no matter what. Too high of a temperature will make the meat tough. You want to smoke your pork roasts for about 1 to 1 1/2 hours per pound. This means you will be smoking for a long time. 
That temp is better for a pork loin that you are going to slice. Pork shoulder needs to cook long and slow to allow that fall apart tender thing you are looking for. I would go to like 185-195F. I know people that don't pull it off the smoker until it is 200-205. Hey gang I picked up a 7lb pork shoulder that I wanted to roast for various pulled dishes and was curious on cooking time and temp, I need it to be fall off the bone tender but not dry, any insight to how to pull this off is greatly appreciated. Thanks for your time
1 Total cooking time is usually 1½ to 2 hours per pound. 2  If the pork is taking too long to cook, you can increase the oven temperature to 300 - 325 degrees F to hurry things along. 3  In some cases, pork butt will cook a bit faster than you expect it to. Preparation time for this recipe (making the rub and applying it to the pork) is about 20 minutes. Then the rubbed pork needs to rest in the refrigerator overnight before cooking. Cooking time is about 1½ to 2 hours per pound of meat. So this recipe does take a bit of time (though most of it is unattended).
Return pork to the grill (or smoker) The pork is finished cooking when it pulls apart easily and reaches an internal temperature of 190 to 195 degrees F, about another 1 to 2 hours. Let rest for 1 hour, then unwrap the pork butt and pull the bone out. Try not to lift the lid of the cooker at any other time. When the pork reaches an internal temperature of 165 to 170 degrees F on an instant read meat thermometer (after about 4 to 5 hours), remove it from the grill and double wrap in aluminum foil to keep the juices from leaking out.
To Bake Pulled Pork: Preheat the oven to 325 degrees F. Prepare as directed above in the slow-cooked recipe, except place the 2-1/2- to 3-pound pork roast in a roasting pan and increase the water in the water-vinegar mixture to 1 cup. Cover the pan and bake for 2-1/2 to 3 hours or until very tender. 4. Pull the Pork & Serve. 1  Remove the meat from smoker and cover with foil. 2  Let stand for 15 minutes, which gives it time to redistribute the juices. 3  Using a large carving knife, cut the meat into large pieces.
Overview: The simplified version of preparing pulled pork is to take a pork shoulder and put it in your smoker. Cook until the internal temperature of the meat reaches at least 165 degrees F., the safe temperature for pork. However, higher internal temperature will make the meat easier to pull and more tender. Do not exceed 190 degrees F.in the smoker. You will want the meat to rest a minimum for 30 minutes
The length of cooking can be a little tricky to figure out, but a good rule of thumb is 1 to 1 (hours of smoke per lb of meat). But I like to always have a meat thermometer handy and strictly go by internal temperature. You are shooting for an internal temperature of 195 degrees for perfect pulled pork. Once you have your butt on the smoker, its time to make your mop. The mop consists of a mixture of: 1  16 oz Vegetable Oil. 