Native Tribes of the United States and Canada: Partial list of North American Indian tribes including state-recognized tribes. Indian Tribes Names: Partial chart of the original and current names of North American Indian tribes. First Nations Histories: Historical overviews of 48 different North American Indian tribes. Maps of Native American Nations: Maps and tribal information about American Indian nations of the US and Canada. Native American Nations: List of links to North American Indian tribes. Native American Tribes and Cultures: List of links to Indian tribes of North America. Native American Tribes List: Links to American Indian tribal websites.
Information and Facts about Indian Tribes The articles and pictures of Native American Indians in this section provide an opportunity to study the differences between the tribes of the Native Americans. The massive area of the United States incorporates many different types of climate and land. The way of life of the different tribes were dictated by the natural raw materials available in the area they lived and the animals, fish, birds, plants, nuts, berries and trees.
In Northeast Arizona, the Navajo are a pround and independent people. The Navajo are the largest of the remaining tribes today. The Navajo can adapt to the modern life but still somewhat nomadic. The Hopi Indians live in the center of the Navajo country. The Blackfeet reservation in Montana is adjacent to the Glacier National Park. Their reservation is one of the most attractive in the U.S. (Indian America, Ney, 15). The most handsome of the western Indians were the Crow for their long hair. The Arikara Indians live in North Dakota.
Native American Indians are indigenous people of North America. There are many ways to organize the different cultures: 1  Location: Southeastern, Southwestern, Northwest, Plains, Woodland, Coastal. 2  Occupation: hunters/gatherers, fishermen, weavers, etc. 3  Shelter: hogan, teepee, longhouse, wigwam, mud and daub, pueblo, etc. 
Two major Indian Tribes in this area are the Cherokee and the Chickasaw (Indian America, Ney, 38). Tuscarora, Cheraw, Cherokee, Sugeree, Catawba, Woccon, Pamlico, Hatteras, and Chowanoc are the tribes thta linve in North Carolina. The Cherokee live mostly at the end of the Great Smoky Moutain National Park. The Blackfeet reservation in Montana is adjacent to the Glacier National Park. Their reservation is one of the most attractive in the U.S. (Indian America, Ney, 15). The most handsome of the western Indians were the Crow for their long hair. The Arikara Indians live in North Dakota.
Indian Tribes A comprehensive and illustrated guide to famous Indian Tribes and the culture of the Native American and the indigenous people of North America. The massive area of the United States incorporates many different types of climate and land. The way of life of the different tribes were dictated by the natural raw materials available in the area they lived and the animals, fish, birds, plants, nuts, berries and trees.
In 1871 Congress added a rider to the Indian Appropriations Act, signed into law by President Ulysses S. Grant, ending United States recognition of additional Native American tribes or independent nations, and prohibiting additional treaties. In the United States, Native Americans are considered to be people whose pre-Columbian ancestors were indigenous to the lands within the nation's modern boundaries. These peoples were composed of numerous distinct tribes, bands, and ethnic groups, and many of these groups survive intact today as sovereign nations.
Native American music is the music that is used, created or performed by Native Americans in the United States and First Nations people of Canada, specifically traditional tribal music. 
Great Basin Indian Tribes The lands occupied by many of the Great Basin Indian Tribes consisted of barren wasteland of deserts, salt flats and brackish lakes in the states of Idaho, Oregon, Wyoming, Utah, Colorado, New Mexico, Nevada and Montana. The massive area of the United States incorporates many different types of climate and land. The way of life of the different tribes were dictated by the natural raw materials available in the area they lived and the animals, fish, birds, plants, nuts, berries and trees.
Native Americans celebrate their heritage with regional gatherings. A teepee is a traditional Native American shelter. Like many Native American groups, the tribes in the Iroquois Confederation used canoes for trading, fishing, and warfare. Hundreds of federally recognized tribes exist in the U.S. Native American is the generic term for indigenous North Americans. 