Known problems of Phylogenetic Analysis  The definition of best tree is ambiguous.It might mean the most likely tree, or a tree withthe fewest changes, or a tree best fit to a knownmodel, etc.. The trees that result from various methods differfrom each other. 
A phylogenetic tree or evolutionary tree is a branching diagram or  tree  showing the inferred evolutionary relationships among various biological species or other entities—their phylogeny —based upon similarities and differences in their physical or genetic characteristics. This is normally done by including an outgroup in the input data so that the root is necessarily between the outgroup and the rest of the taxa in the tree, or by introducing additional assumptions about the relative rates of evolution on each branch, such as an application of the molecular clock hypothesis.
n. pl. phy·log·e·nies. 1. The evolutionary development and history of a species or trait of a species or of a higher taxonomic grouping of organisms: the phylogeny of Calvin cycle enzymes. Also called phylogenesis. 2. A model or diagram delineating such an evolutionary history: a molecular phylogeny of the annelids. 3. 1. the development or evolution of a particular group of organisms. 2. the evolutionary history of a group of organisms, esp. as depicted in a family tree. [1865–70]. phy•log′e•nist, n.
Molecular evolution is a change in the sequence composition of cellular molecules such as DNA, RNA, and proteins across generations. The field of molecular evolution uses principles of evolutionary biology and population genetics to explain patterns in these changes. Mutations are permanent, transmissible changes to the genetic material (DNA or RNA) of a cell or virus. Mutations result from errors in DNA replication during cell division and by exposure to radiation, chemicals, and other environmental stressors, or viruses and transposable elements.
In a rooted phylogenetic tree, each node with descendants represents the inferred most recent common ancestor of the descendants, and the edge lengths in some trees may be interpreted as time estimates. Each node is called a taxonomic unit. This is normally done by including an outgroup in the input data so that the root is necessarily between the outgroup and the rest of the taxa in the tree, or by introducing additional assumptions about the relative rates of evolution on each branch, such as an application of the molecular clock hypothesis.
Phylogeny. The genealogical history of organisms, both living and extinct. Phylogeny represents the historical pattern of relationships among organisms which has resulted from the actions of many different evolutionary processes. An investigation of the historical changes that took place in the characteristics of a given taxonomic group makes it possible to reconstruct the phylogeny of the group.
Molecular phylogeny is the use of the structure of molecule s to gain information on an organ ism's evolution ary relationships. The result of a molecular phylogenetic ana lysis is express ed in a so-called phylogenetic tree. Molecular phylogeny is the use of a gene 's molecular character istics to class ify an organ ism and to place it on a map of evolution ary relationships known as the phylogenetic tree. Molecular phylogeny indicates that human pubic lice diverged from gorilla lice as recently as 3.3 MYA [3], whereas the chimp and human host lineage split from the gorilla lineage at least 7 MYA (Figure 3).
A phylogenetic tree, also known as a phylogeny, is a diagram that depicts the lines of evolutionary descent of different species, organisms, or genes from a common ancestor. 
Medical Definition of PHYLOGENY. 1. : the evolutionary history of a kind of organism. 2. : the evolution of a genetically related group of organisms as distinguished from the development of the individual organism—called also phylogenesis; compare ontogeny. Definition of PHYLOGENY. 1. : the evolutionary history of a kind of organism. 2. : the evolution of a genetically related group of organisms as distinguished from the development of the individual organism. 3. : the history or course of the development of something (as a word or custom). See phylogeny defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.