Cervical Muscle Spasm. A muscle spasm is a sudden and involuntary contraction, tightening, or shaking of a muscle. A spasm often occurs as a result of trauma, strain, overuse, weakness, or pain. In the cervical spine, a muscle spasm may or may not cause the head to turn or move without warning. 
In-Depth From A.D.A.M. The origin of the pain is often unknown, and imaging studies may fail to determine its cause. Disk disease, spinal arthritis, and muscle spasms are the most common diagnoses. Other problems can also cause back pain, however. A herniated disk, spinal stenosis, degenerative disc disease, spondylolisthesis, or other abnormalities of vertebrae can all cause pressure on the sciatic nerve. Some cases of sciatica pain may occur when a muscle located deep in the buttocks pinches the sciatic nerve. This muscle is called the piriformis.
Degenerative disc disease is most common in the lumbar spine, less common in the cervical spine, and extremely rare in the thoracic spine. Each spinal disc joins two vertebrae and is an almost oval structure made of fibrocartilage, a very firm and strong form of cartilage. In the lumbar spine, if it presses on a nerve root, it can cause pain and neurological complaints and reactions: decrease or loss of sensation (hypesthesia, anesthesia) and muscle weakness in the leg of the affected side. The reflexes may be decreased when checked by a physician.
Once injured, inflammation sets in. This, in turn, sensitizes the nerves, causing the muscle/s to contract and spasm. Disc Disorders and Muscle Spasms. Conditions, such as degenerative disc disease or herniated disc, may cause an acute episode of low back pain. A disc may herniate or bulge and compress a nearby spinal nerve root causing irritation and inflammation. 
Generally, the pain associated with degenerative disc disease is thought to stem from two main factors: Inflammation. The proteins contained within the disc space can cause a lot of inflammation, and as a general rule inflammation will cause pain. 1  In the lumbar disc space, the low back pain can radiate into the hips.
Causes of Disc Disease. Lumbar disc disease is due to a change in the structure of the normal disc. Most of the time, disc disease comes as a result of aging and the degeneration that occurs within the disc. Occasionally, severe trauma can cause a normal disc to herniate. Trauma may also cause an already herniated disc to worsen. Degenerative disc disease is one of the most common causes of low back and neck pain. As degenerative disc disease continues to worsen, or with continued stress on the spine, the inner nucleus pulposus may actually rupture out from the annulus. This is considered a ruptured, or herniated, disc
The pain from degenerative disc or joint disease of the spine is usually treated conservatively with intermittent heat, rest, rehabilitative exercises, and medications to relieve pain, muscle spasm, and inflammation. Medically Reviewed by a Doctor on 7/11/2014. Degeneration of the disc can cause local pain in the affected area. Any level of the spine can be affected by disc degeneration. When disc degeneration affects the spine of the neck, it is referred to as cervical disc disease. When the mid-back is affected, the condition is referred to as thoracic
Risk Factors and Causes of Degenerative Disc Disease. Degenerative disc disease typically is a result of the natural aging process, although it also can be caused by injury or trauma. At birth, intervertebral discs are about 80% water, along with collagen and proteins, with most of the water located in the nucleus pulposus. Signs and Symptoms of Degenerative Disc Disease. The primary symptom of degenerative disc disease is pain, which often worsens when sitting or standing and during certain types of activity (e.g., bending, lifting, twisting). In many cases, pain is relieved by changing positions, such as walking or swimming.
It is a reflex, and although the body's response of muscle spasm is not necessary for the safety of the nerve roots, it can be quite painful. The muscle spasms associated with the instability are thought to cause the flare-ups of intense pain often associated with degenerative disc disease. Article continues below. Inflammation. The proteins contained within the disc space can cause a lot of inflammation, and as a general rule inflammation will cause pain. 1  In the lumbar disc space, the low back pain can radiate into the hips.