In Bulgaria, Epiphany is celebrated on January 6 and is known as Bogoyavlenie (Manifestation of God), кръщение господне (Krashtenie Gospodne or Baptism of the Lord) or Yordanovden (Day of Jordan, referring to the river). 
Roman Catholic AnswerThe feast of the … Epiphany celebrates three different manifestations of Christ as God to the people: 1) the Magi, 2) His Baptism in the Jordan, and 3) His first miracle at Cana. from Modern Catholic Dictionary by John A. Hardon, S.J. Doubleday & Co., Inc. Garden City, NY 1980 Epiphany. Epiphany is not geographical... I think you mean to ask 'What is Epiphany'    Epiphany is an ancient church festival celebrating the magi's visit to the Christ Child. I … t is kept on January 6.
Epiphany: a Christian festival held on January 6 in honor of the coming of the three kings to the infant Jesus Christ. Full Definition of EPIPHANY. 1. capitalized: January 6 observed as a church festival in commemoration of the coming of the Magi as the first manifestation of Christ to the Gentiles or in the Eastern Church in commemoration of the baptism of Christ. 2. : an appearance or manifestation especially of a divine being. 3
Many Christians around the world annually celebrate Epiphany on January 6. It is a public holiday in many countries and marks two events in Jesus Christ’s life, according to the Christian Bible. The first event was when the three wise men, or kings, visited infant Jesus. Epiphany is commonly known as Three Kings’ Day or the Feast of the Epiphany. It means “manifestation” or “showing forth”. It is also called Theophany (“manifestation of God”), especially by Eastern Christians.
Epiphany is a public holiday in countries such as Austria, Colombia, Croatia, Cyprus, Poland, Ethiopia (but on different date that varies annually), parts of Germany, Greece, Italy, Slovakia, Spain, and Uruguay. Epiphany is commonly known as Three Kings’ Day or the Feast of the Epiphany. It means “manifestation” or “showing forth”. It is also called Theophany (“manifestation of God”), especially by Eastern Christians.
The word epiphany means “manifestation” or “revelation and is commonly linked in Western Christianity with the visit of the wise men (Magi) to the Christ child. Through the Magi, Christ revealed himself to the gentiles. 
1 Epiphany A Christian feast celebrating the manifestation of the divine nature of Jesus to the Gentiles as represented by the Magi, traditionally observed on January 6. noun. 1 
In Christianity, the Epiphany refers to a realization that Christ is the Son of God. Western churches generally celebrate the Visit of the Magi as the revelation of the Incarnation of the infant Christ, and commemorate the Feast of the Epiphany on January 6. For other uses, see Epiphany. An epiphany (from the ancient Greek ἐπιφάνεια, epiphaneia, manifestation, striking appearance) is an experience of sudden and striking realization.