Q fever (see the image below) is a zoonosis caused by Coxiella burnetii, an obligate gram-negative intracellular bacterium. Cattle, sheep, and goats are the primary reservoirs although a variety of species may be infected. 
Q fever is a worldwide disease with acute and chronic stages caused by the bacteria Coxiella burnetii. Cattle, sheep, and goats are the primary reservoirs although a variety of species may be infected. Organisms are excreted in milk, urine, and feces of infected animals. 
1 Q fever is a highly infectious disease that can cause serious illness. 2  Q fever is caused by a bacterium called Coxiella burnetii; infected animals transmit Q fever to humans. 3  Q fever can occur in an acute form and a chronic form. Animals transmit the disease to humans (this sort of infectious disease is called a zoonosis). Most often, cattle, goats, and sheep transmit Q fever, but it can also come from cats, dogs, rabbits, and other animals. Rarely, it's possible for Q fever to spread from person to person.
Q fever is a disease caused by infection with Coxiella burnetii, a bacterium that affects humans and other animals. This organism is uncommon, but may be found in cattle, sheep, goats and other domestic mammals, including cats and dogs. 
Q fever is an infection caused by the bacterium Coxiella burnetii. Q fever is usually a mild disease with flu-like symptoms. Many people have no symptoms at all. In a small percentage of people, the infection can resurface years later. This more deadly form of Q fever can damage your heart, liver, brain and lungs. Q fever is transmitted to humans by animals, most commonly sheep, goats and cattle.
Q fever, also known as Query fever is a bacterial infection caused by the coxiella burnetii bacterium. Animals, most typically sheep, goats, cattle and other livestock infect humans-i.e. humans get it from animals. The organism is uncommon. Experts say Q fever may be considered the most infectious disease in the world, as a human being can be infected by a single bacterium. The infection is also known as Query fever because when it was initially identified nobody knew what caused it.
Q Fever is a disease of humans and ruminants (cattle, sheep, goats) caused by bacteria called Coxiella burnetii. Most infected animals do not show signs of illness but can shed large amounts of bacteria in the placenta, aborted fetuses, or other reproductive tissues expelled while giving birth. 
Q fever, also called query fever, is a bacterial infection caused by the bacteria Coxiella burnetii. The bacteria are most commonly found in cattle, sheep, and goats around the world. Humans typically get Q fever when they breathe in dust that was contaminated by infected animals. Q fever is caused by a bacterial infection with a bacterium called Coxiella burnetii. The bacteria are typically found in cattle, sheep, and goats. The animals transmit the bacteria in their urine, feces, milk, and fluids from giving birth. These fluids dry inside a barnyard where contaminated dust can float in the air
Q fever is a bacterial infection that can affect the lungs, liver, heart, and other parts of the body. A.D.A.M. Q fever is found around the world and is caused by the bacteria Coxiella burnetii. The bacteria infects sheep, goats, cattle, dogs, cats, birds, rodents, and ticks, as well as some other animals. Infected animals shed this bacteria in: