1 IgA antibodies protect body surfaces that are exposed to outside foreign substances. 2  This type of antibody is also found in saliva, tears, and blood. 3  About 10% to 15% of the antibodies present in the body are IgA antibodies. 4  A small number of people do not make IgA antibodies. 1 This type of antibody is also found in saliva, tears, and blood. 2  About 10% to 15% of the antibodies present in the body are IgA antibodies. 3  A small number of people do not make IgA antibodies. 4  IgG.
The Independent Grocers Alliance (IGA) was founded in 1926, bringing together independent grocers across the United States to ensure that the trusted, family-owned local grocery store remained strong in the face of growing chain competition. 
Immunoglobulin A (IgA), in its secretory form, is the main effector of the mucosal immune system and provides an important first line of defense against most pathogens that invade the body at a mucosal surface [1]. IgA is also found as a monomer in the serum where it may function as a second line of defence by eliminating pathogens that have breached the mucosal surface. Serum IgA interacts with an Fc receptor called FcαR1 triggering antibody-dependent-cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC).
1 IgA antibodies are found in areas of the body such the nose, breathing passages, digestive tract, ears, eyes, and vagina. 2  IgA antibodies protect body surfaces that are exposed to outside foreign substances. 3  This type of antibody is also found in saliva, tears, and blood. 1 This type of antibody is also found in saliva, tears, and blood. 2  About 10% to 15% of the antibodies present in the body are IgA antibodies. 3  A small number of people do not make IgA antibodies. 4  IgG.
IgA. Immunoglobulin A (IgA, also referred to as sIgA) is an antibody that plays a critical role in mucosal immunity. More IgA is produced in mucosal linings than all other types of antibody combined; between three and five grams are secreted into the intestinal lumen each day. This accumulates up to 15% of the total immunoglobulin produced in the entire body. The high prevalence of IgA in mucosal areas is a result of a cooperation between plasma cells that produce polymeric IgA (pIgA), and mucosal epithelial cells that express an immunoglobulin receptor called the polymeric Ig receptor (pIgR).
Immunoglobulin A (IgA) is a blood protein that's part of your immune system. Your body makes IgA in order to fight off infections. IgA is found in mucous membranes, especially in the respiratory and gastrointestinal tracts, and in saliva, tears, and breast milk. It appears to play a part in asthma and allergies. Researchers have also linked IgA to autoimmune conditions, in which your body's immune system mistakenly attacks your body itself
This test is ordered when a person has symptoms of an immunoglobulin deficiency such as recurrent infections, especially of the respiratory tract (sinus, lungs) or gastrointestinal tract (stomach, intestines), and/or chronic diarrhea. A test for quantitative immunoglobulins (Igs) is used to detect an excess or deficiency in the three major classes of immunoglobulins (IgG, IgA, and IgM).
Definition of Selective IgA Deficiency. Selective IgA Deficiency is defined as a primary immunodeficiency characterized by an undetectable level of immunoglobulin A (IgA) in the blood and secretions but no other immunoglobulin deficiencies. There are five types (classes) of immunoglobulins or antibodies in the blood: IgG, IgA, IgM, IgD and IgE. Although individuals with Selective IgA Deficiency do not produce IgA (or produce only extremely small amounts), they do make all the other immunoglobulin classes; hence the term Selective IgA Deficiency. Furthermore, the functions of their T-lymphocytes, phagocytic cells and complement systems are all normal.