Charles Perkins: Freedom Rides : On the night of the 12 February 1965, 30 university students from Sydney boarded a bus and set off to campaign in the country towns of New South Wales. In 1965 he led the Student Action for Aborigines group on the first 'Freedom Ride', a bus trip designed to protest and bring to attention to the racial discrimination that was rife in rural communities.
After his education in Adelaide and his soccer days, Perkins went to the University of Sydney, from where he graduated in 1965 with a Bachelor of Arts. He was the first Indigenous Australian to graduate from tertiary education in Australia. In 1965 he led the Student Action for Aborigines group on the first 'Freedom Ride', a bus trip designed to protest and bring to attention to the racial discrimination that was rife in rural communities.
Charles Nelson Perkins, AO, commonly known as Charlie Perkins ,(16 June 1936 – 19 October 2000) was an Australian Aboriginal activist, soccer player and administrator. He was known as Kumantjayi Perkins in the period immediately following his death. Perkins was named by the National Trust of Australia as one of Australia's Living National Treasures. In 2001 The Dr Charles Perkins AO Memorial Oration and Dr Charles Perkins AO Memorial Prize were established in his honour by the University of Sydney.
After the Freedom Rides, Charles Perkins began his career as a public servant in 1969 as a Senior Research Officer with the office of Aboriginal Affairs. His upbringing/education before going to University. In the first few years of his life his mum educated him the ways of the Arrente – his ancestor’s tribe. At the age of 8 (around 1945), after his mum permission, he was voluntarily taken to go to St Francis – a Christian school – in Adelaide by the Anglican Priest.
From the State Funeral program, Sydney Town Hall, 25th October 2000. Charles’s grandmother, Nellie Errerreke Perkins, and his mother Hetti, were Eastern Arrernte women, Hetti was born at Arltunga, east of Mparntwe (Alice Springs), in Central Australia. Hetti’s young life was spent around the local mines and working on pastoral stations. In 1935, Hetti met Martin Connelly while living at the Bungalow (Old Telegraph Station) near Alice Springs. Martin’s mother was a Kalkadoon woman from the Mt Isa region and his father was Irish. Hetti had two children to Martin.
Indigenous leader and public administrator (1936–2000). Charles (Charlie) Perkins was born at the Alice Springs Telegraph Station Aboriginal Reserve in the Northern Territory in 1936. His parents were Arrente and Kalkadoon people. Records relating to Charles Perkins held by the National Archives. The National Archives holds many records relating to Charles Perkins, and in particular his years as a government employee. You can search the collection to identify records. Examples of the types of records held are listed in the tables below.
Early life and family [edit]. Charles Perkins was born in Alice Springs to Hetty Perkins, originally from nearby Arltunga, and Martin Connelly, originally from Mount Isa, Queensland. His mother was born to a white father and an Arrernte mother, while his father was born to an Irish father and a Kalkadoon mother. Perkins was named by the National Trust of Australia as one of Australia's Living National Treasures. In 2001 The Dr Charles Perkins AO Memorial Oration and Dr Charles Perkins AO Memorial Prize were established in his honour by the University of Sydney.
Charles Perkins was born in Alice Springs to Hetty Perkins, originally from nearby Arltunga, and Martin Connelly, originally from Mount Isa, Queensland. Perkins was named by the National Trust of Australia as one of Australia's Living National Treasures. In 2001 The Dr Charles Perkins AO Memorial Oration and Dr Charles Perkins AO Memorial Prize were established in his honour by the University of Sydney.
Charles Perkins was born on the 16th of June, 1936 behind the old telegraph station (previosuly known as 'The Bugalow') in Alice Springs (Northern Territory) Australia. His upbringing/education before going to University. In the first few years of his life his mum educated him the ways of the Arrente – his ancestor’s tribe. At the age of 8 (around 1945), after his mum permission, he was voluntarily taken to go to St Francis – a Christian school – in Adelaide by the Anglican Priest.
(1936 to 2000). Charles Perkins was born in Alice Springs; his mother was Arrente and his father Kalkadoon. He was removed from the Alice Springs Telegraph Station Aboriginal Reserve when he was 10 and educated at St Francis House, a school established by Father Percy Smith in Adelaide to educate Aboriginal boys. Perkins' role in this action propelled him to a position as a national Aboriginal leader and spokesman, a position he held until his death. In the post-referendum period, Charles Perkins was critical of the Federal Council, believing it had not done enough to share power with Aboriginal members.