The Inter-quartile range is the range of the middle half of the data. It is the difference between the upper and lower quartile. Example: 35,80,100 110,120,120,170,180. Th … e Inter-quartile range would be 145-90 or 55 To find the interquartile range, you: 1) Arrange the data in numerical order.
InterQuartile Range (IQR) Calculator. Interquartile range (IQR) is the difference between the third and the first quartiles in descriptive statistics. Make use of this free online calculator to find the interquartile range from the set of observed numerical data.
Confidence votes 100. Like the standard deviation, the interquartile range (IQR) is a descriptive statistic used to summarize the extent of the spread of your data. The IQR is the distance between the 1st quartile (25th percentile) and 3rd quartile (75th percentile). Q3 - Q1 = IQR.
In descriptive statistics, the interquartile range (IQR), also called the midspread or middle fifty, is a measure of statistical dispersion, being equal to the difference between the upper and lower quartiles, IQR = Q 3 − Q 1.
The interquartile range (IQR) is a number that indicates how spread out scores are and tells us what the range is in the middle of a set of scores.
An Alternative Definition for IQR. In some texts, the interquartile range is defined differently. It is defined as the difference between the largest and smallest values in the middle 50% of a set of data. To compute an interquartile range using this definition, first remove observations from the lower quartile. Then, remove observations from the upper quartile. Then, from the remaining observations, compute the difference between the largest and smallest values.
The first quartile is the point where 1/4 of the values are lower and 3/4 are higher; the second quartile, better known as the median, divides the distribution into equal parts; the third quartile is just the opposite of the first.
Like the standard deviation, the interquartile range (IQR) is a descriptive statistic used to summarize the extent of the spread of your data. The IQR is the distance between the 1st quartile (25th percentile) and 3rd quartile (75th percentile). Q3 - Q1 = IQR.