Years later, the virus can become active, causing shingles. The first symptoms of shingles are unusual skin sensations. These include pain, itching and tingling. Other symptoms include confusion, fatigue, fever, headache, memory loss, an upset stomach and stomach pain. These symptoms generally occur one to five days before a painful rash appears on one side of the body or face.
Shingles is a painful rash that develops on one side of the face or body. The rash forms blisters that typically scab over in 7 to 10 days and clears up within 2 to 4 weeks. Before the rash develops, people often have pain, itching, or tingling in the area where the rash will develop.
The symptoms of shingles include: 1  Pain or a bruised feeling -- usually on one side of your face or body -- often along with a fever, chills, headache, or upset stomach. 2  Tingling, itching, or prickling skin, followed several days later by a group of fluid-filled blisters on a red, inflamed base of skin.
Early Signs and Symptoms of Shingles. The first symptom of shingles is often burning or tingling pain, or sometimes numbness, in or under the skin. An individual may also feel ill with fever, chills, headache, or an upset stomach. Shingles pain can be mild or intense, and is often described as unrelenting.
Early symptoms can start several days before the more obvious symptoms of shingles. The most common early symptom is a feeling of numbness, itching, tingling or a burning pain centered in one part of the body or face. Often, this occurs in the abdominal area.
When the virus that causes chickenpox reactivates, it causes shingles. Early symptoms of shingles include headache, sensitivity to light, and flu-like symptoms without a fever. You may then feel itching, tingling, or pain where a band, strip, or small area of rash may appear several days or weeks later.
Symptoms of Shingles: Introduction. Symptoms of shingles affect the nerves and the skin and can occur in almost any part of the body. However, shingles most often affects one side of the trunk. Symptoms generally begin with sensations of itching, tingling, and/or a severe burning pain in the affected area. The pain can be severe.