What to drink when you have cold or flu. Water is the best fluid to drink when you have a cold or flu as it helps lubricate the mucous membranes of the throat. Hot drinks are also a good choice as the hot steam they produce can relieve congestion.
How to eat during cold or flu: The best way to reap all the benefits from yogurt is to have one or two 6-ounce servings of yogurt a day. Choose low-fat, sugar-free yogurt with live active cultures seal. Morning cereals are not only a good start of your day, but also great food to eat when you have common cold or flu. Whole grains such as oats and barley are rich in beta-glucan, a soluble fiber with powerful immune boosting properties.
Immune boosting foods. A healthy immune system not only helps prevent cold and flu infections, it also helps prevent serious complications and ensures rapid recovery when they do occur. Foods which have been shown to boost the immune system include: 1  Yoghurt; 2  Kefir; 3  Salmon and tuna; 4  Flaxseeds and walnuts; 5  Olive, canola and walnut oil.
This is a very common problem and is caused by aggravation of Kapha. It is also caused by weak digestion. When the food we eat is not fully digested it changes into ama. This mucus or ama reaches the respiratory system and causes cold or cough. Other causes are exposure to cold or humid conditions or cold air.
How to eat during cold or flu: Have two raw cloves of garlic a day or add freshly-crushed garlic to your meal for best treatment. Opt for orange when you want to boost the defensive power of your immune system against viruses and bacteria.
How to eat during cold or flu: Have at least 1 ½ to 2 cups of fruit or berries a day during cold. Warm liquids like soups, tea, water and juices are especially important when you have common cold and flu. Scientists proved that traditional chicken soup is a good home remedy during cold or flu.
When you have a cold or flu, drink a minimum of eight 250 mL cups of fluid each day. Drink water or another healthy fluid (see below) whenever you are thirsty. But there’s no need to overdo it – too much can lead to hyponatreamia (a condition characterised by low levels of salt in the blood).