Scabies, known as the seven-year itch, is a contagious skin infestation by the mite Sarcoptes scabiei. The most common symptoms are severe itchiness and a pimple-like rash. Occasionally tiny burrows may be seen in the skin. When first infected, usually two to six weeks are required before symptoms occur. 
Infection control. On the day you first apply the cream or lotion, you should wash all bed linen, nightwear and towels at a temperature above 50C (122F). If you're unable to wash certain items, place them in a plastic bag for at least 72 hours. After this time, the scabies mites will have died. In cases of crusted scabies, you should clean the floors in your house and thoroughly vacuum your carpets and furniture, including the armchairs and sofa.
The most common symptoms of scabies are intense itching and a pimple-like skin rash. The scabies mite usually is spread by direct, prolonged, skin-to-skin contact with a person who has scabies. Scabies is found worldwide and affects people of all races and social classes. My spouse and I were diagnosed with scabies. The rash and itching of scabies can persist for several weeks to a month after treatment, even if the treatment was successful and all the mites and eggs have been killed.
Scabies is a condition of very itchy skin caused by tiny mites that burrow into your skin. The itching is caused by an allergic reaction to the mites. Scabies spreads very easily from person to person. It can affect people of all ages and from all incomes, social levels, and living situations. 
Scabies infestations are caused by tiny mites that live under the skin. Only one type of mite is transmitted from human to human. These mites cannot survive off the human body for more than 48 hours, and cannot reproduce off the body. 
Scabies medications can kill the mites and eggs quickly, and patients can usually return to school or work 24 hours after starting treatment. However, the itch may persist for a few weeks. This is the result of an ongoing allergic reaction in the skin. It can only be cured with prescription medications that kill the mites. Treatment is a cream or lotion that is applied to the entire body from the neck down in most cases. It is left on for 8 to 14 hours and then washed off. In some cases, a doctor may prescribe pills to treat scabies. Treatment takes up to three days, depending on the medication used
Scabies is a skin condition caused by mites (little bugs) that burrow under the skin and produce small red bumps and severe itching. The mites easily spread from person to person, especially among people who share close living spaces. 
Human scabies is caused by an infestation of the skin by the human itch mite (Sarcoptes scabiei var. hominis). The microscopic scabies mite burrows into the upper layer of the skin where it lives and lays its eggs. The most common symptoms of scabies are intense itching and a pimple-like skin rash. The scabies mite usually is spread by direct, prolonged, skin-to-skin contact with a person who has scabies. An infested person can spread scabies even if he or she has no symptoms. Humans are the source of infestation; animals do not spread human scabies. 
On a person, scabies mites can live for as long as 1-2 months. Off a person, scabies mites usually do not survive more than 48-72 hours. Scabies mites will die if exposed to a temperature of 50°C (122°F) for 10 minutes. My spouse and I were diagnosed with scabies. The rash and itching of scabies can persist for several weeks to a month after treatment, even if the treatment was successful and all the mites and eggs have been killed.