1 A misdemeanor assault conviction can result in a jail term of up to one year as well as other serious consequences. 2  Felony assault and sexual assault: If the alleged offense is sexual in nature (sexual assault), results in serious bodily injury or involves the use of a weapon, it can be charged as felony assault. 1 Class A assault (misdemeanor assault): Class A misdemeanor assault can involve any abuse or assault that results in visible injuries (including something as trivial as a scratch) or nonvisible injuries (such as pain). 2  Family violence also constitutes a Class A assault.
Domestic violence penalties in Texas. Simple assault is a Class A misdemeanor, punishable by up to a year in a county jail unless you have a previous conviction involving family violence. If so, it becomes a third-degree felony, carrying a possible 2 to 10-year prison sentence. If you are convicted on domestic assault charges, even if it’s a misdemeanor, you will not be able to possess a firearm for up to five years of the end of your sentence or community supervision.
Penalties for Simple Assault in Texas. A person convicted of a misdemeanor in Texas faces the following possible penalties: 1  Class A misdemeanor – up to one year in jail or a fine up to $4000, or both. 2  Class B misdemeanor – up to 180 days in jail or a fine up to $2000, or both, and. 3  Class C misdemeanor – a fine up to $500. A person convicted of simple assault in Texas can be required to pay restitution, which involves reimbursing the victim for any expenses resulting from the crime, such as the cost of medical treatment or counseling, or repair or replacement of damaged property.
Under Texas law, you can be charged with assault resulting from an incident with no physical contact. Acts of Assault. An act of assault can be one of three things: 1  Intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly causing bodily injury to another person. A simple assault that results in minor injuries is usually a Class A misdemeanor under Texas law. A class A misdemeanor carries penalties of fines of up to $4000, and up to 1 year in jail. A simple assault that only involved threatening or touching is usually a Class C
Punishment for Assault. The Class C Misdemeanor offense of simple assault is punishable by a fine only up to $500. It is possible to be charged with a simple assault involving domestic violence. A Class A Misdemeanor is punishable up to one year in county jail and a $4,000 fine. Aggravated Assault or an enhanced domestic violence assault is a second degree felony punishable by 2 to 20 years in prison and up to a $10,000 fine.
Class A Misdemeanor. In Texas, class A misdemeanors are punishable by up to one year in jail, a fine of up to $4,000, or both jail time and a fine. Pimping, and carrying a gun without a permit are examples of class A misdemeanors. (Tex. Penal Code Ann. Class C Misdemeanor. Class C misdemeanors in Texas are punishable by a fine of up to $500. There is no jail time for a class C misdemeanor. Any misdemeanor that is not designated as Class A, B, or C, and has no specified punishment is a class C misdemeanor. (Tex.
Under the criminal laws of Texas, assault can be charged if you: 1  Intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly cause bodily injury to someone else, including your spouse. 2  Intentionally or knowingly threaten someone else, including your spouse, with imminent bodily injury. Misdemeanor Assault and Felony Assault. Normally, a simple assault that results in minor injury is a Class A misdemeanor, punishable by not more than 1 year in a county jail and/or a fine of not more than $4,000.
A teacher in Texas can continue to teach with a class A as long as the misdemeanor is not one that is related to the duties of the education profession. If a teacher is convicted of a felony or misdemeanor that is related to the duties of the education profession they can also lose their license. 
In Texas, assault carries either misdemeanor or felony level penalties and punishments in Texas, depending on the circumstances. Because simple assault is a misdemeanor, a police officer must see you commit the act before making an immediate arrest unless it involves domestic violence. Misdemeanor Assault and Felony Assault. Normally, a simple assault that results in minor injury is a Class A misdemeanor, punishable by not more than 1 year in a county jail and/or a fine of not more than $4,000.