Vaccines and Immunizations. ShareCompartir. For the first dose of measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella vaccines at age 12-47 months, either MMR vaccine and varicella vaccine or MMRV vaccine may be used. However, the overall risk of febrile seizures is very low for both options (about 8 out of every 10,000 children vaccinated with MMRV vaccine when they are 12-23 months old, and about 4 out of every 10,000 children vaccinated with the MMR and varicella vaccines at the same visit when they are 12-23 months old).
When the first dose of measles, mumps, rubella, and varicella vaccines is administered at ages 48 months and older, use of MMRV vaccine generally is preferred over separate injections of MMR and varicella vaccines. However, the overall risk of febrile seizures is very low for both options (about 8 out of every 10,000 children vaccinated with MMRV vaccine when they are 12-23 months old, and about 4 out of every 10,000 children vaccinated with the MMR and varicella vaccines at the same visit when they are 12-23 months old).
MMR vaccine. The MMR vaccine contains vaccines that protect against three viral infections: measles, mumps and rubella. It is given as a series of two doses at 12 to 15 months of age and at 4 to 6 years of age. 
MMR is a two-shot series of vaccines usually given during childhood. A child should receive the first shot when he is between 12-15 months, and the second when he's between 4-6 years of age. If you're not sure if you have had the diseases or the vaccines (prior to 1971 it was given in three separate shots), you can get the MMR vaccine as an adult. Talk to your doctor about it if: 
The Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) recommends a two-dose vaccine schedule for measles, mumps, rubella and varicella vaccines for children, with the first dose at age 12-15 months and the second at age 4-6 years. However, the overall risk of febrile seizures is very low for both options (about 8 out of every 10,000 children vaccinated with MMRV vaccine when they are 12-23 months old, and about 4 out of every 10,000 children vaccinated with the MMR and varicella vaccines at the same visit when they are 12-23 months old).
If measles, mumps, and rubella vaccine is to be given to a child, the child should be at least 12 months of age. This is to make sure the measles vaccine is effective. In a younger child, antibodies from the mother may interfere with the effectiveness of the vaccine. Descriptions. Measles, mumps, and rubella virus vaccine live is an active immunizing agent used to prevent infection by the measles, mumps, and rubella viruses. It works by causing your body to produce its own protection (antibodies) against the virus.
vaccine is a three-in-one needle that protects against measles, mumps and rubella (German measles). It should be given to children soon after their first birthday. A second dose is given in combination with varicella (chicken pox), as. (a four-in-one needle) at 4-6 years of age. Vaccination against measles, mumps and rubella is required by law for all children attending school in Ontario (unless exempted). This vaccine should also be given to adults who are not protected against measles, mumps or rubella. 
The tuberculosis (TB) skin test and the measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) vaccination are two common procedures that most health care professionals should know how to perform. Gather the MMR vaccine, 3 ml syringe, 25 gauge needle, two alcohol pads and a gauze pad. Unwrap the needle and syringe and assemble them by firmly pressing or twisting the hub of the needle onto the top of the syringe. Clean the rubber top of the vaccine vial with an alcohol pad and let it dry.
5. Administer 0.5 mL MMR vaccine subcutaneously (23–25g, e needle) in the posterolateral fat of the upper arm. 6. For adults in need of a second dose of MMR, observe a minimum interval of 4 weeks between the first and second doses.7. Document each patient’s vaccine administration information and follow up in the following places:a. Medical chart: Record the date the vaccine was administered, the manufacturer and lot number, the vaccination site and route, and the name and title of the person administering the vaccine.
MMR dosing schedule. The first dose of MMR is given to babies aged around 13 months and the second dose between the ages of three and five years. In adults, the second MMR dose must be given at least one month after the first. Single vaccines for measles, mumps and rubella. Single vaccines for the three separate conditions (measles, mumps and rubella) are not available on the NHS, but are available at some private clinics. However, there are certain drawbacks to single vaccines against measles, mumps and rubella: