The Victoria Police website contains information on how to apply for a National Police Check and includes details explaining the release policy. To access the above information visit www.police.vic.gov.au then on the side menu bar under “ Our Services ” click “ Police Records Check ”. 2. The application form for a National Name Check must be forwarded by mail to the Public Enquiry Service to the address specified on the application form. Victoria Police will not accept faxed applications and we do not fax or email certificates to the applicant.
Some volunteer organisations must get a police check for all volunteers as part of their funding arrangements with government departments. You should be told if you need to get a police check when you apply for a volunteering position, as part of the application process or during an interview or information session. If you haven't been told, ask the volunteering organisation. 
Turnaround Time Approximately 80% of police checks are processed within 1-2 hours of lodgement at a participating Australia Post retail outlet. The remainder of police checks get flagged for manual processing and generally take between 2-10 working days, however approximately 5% may take up to 20 business days.
Victoria Police does not conduct police checks for applicants residing overseas. To obtain a National Police Certificate you must apply to the Australian Federal Police. You may visit their website: www.afp.gov.au The direct link is: http://www.afp.gov.au/what-we-do/police-checks.aspx 6. The application form for a National Name Check must be forwarded by mail to the Public Enquiry Service to the address specified on the application form. Victoria Police will not accept faxed applications and we do not fax or email certificates to the applicant.
Back to top How Long Is Police Checks Kept For. All police history information is kept for 3 months. As a federal government requirement, all police history information is destroyed after 3 months. You are able to obtain a copy of your police check within 3 months. After this, a new police check application will be required. 1 Your address details should be for the last 5 years; 2  Enter in the number of years and/or months even if it is zero (i.e. 2 years and 0 months or 0 years and 2 months); 3  Ensure that the Country field of each of the addresses provided has been selected.
The release of records obtained from another Australian police jurisdiction may be governed by legislation and/or release policy within that jurisdiction. The following is a brief outline of what may appear on your Police History Record Check. For more information please refer to the release guidelines. No, the identification information requested is normally sufficient to conduct a Police Record Check. The organisation requesting the information may however require you to undergo a fingerprint check for your employee or regulatory requirements, or for reasons such as a visa for overseas travel or emigration.
Applying for a Police Check is a 3-step process and takes approximately 10 - 12 minutes to complete: 1  Once you have completed your online form, you will receive an email with your Application / Informed Consent Form. 2  You will need to print and sign the Application / Informed Consent Form. You are able to obtain a copy of your Police Check results within 12 months of issue, after this period, a new Police Check application will be required.
Veritas Check will retain Police History Information for 12 months. As a CrimTrac requirement, all Police History Information is destroyed after 12 months. You are able to obtain a copy of your Police Check results within 12 months of issue, after this period, a new Police Check application will be required.
Hi Kelly, both your meds and police checks last one year from when you had them done. Hope that helps KP Nuts. Rec'd at ASPC 08.45am 30/08/07 Pre ack & money taken 12/12/07 - at last....... Full ack and file number 4/1/08 Police checks requested - 14/1/08 Case Officer - 30/1/08 - OMG Meds done - 12/2/08 - Police checks back - 14/2/08 (both) All doc's sent to C/O 27/2/08 - Meds passed 10th March VISA GRANTED 1st May 2008 - YESSSSSSSSS. Rec'd at ASPC 08.45am 30/08/07.