A cup of jalapeno peppers provides 3.2 milligrams of vitamin E, or 21 percent of your recommended daily intake. Jalapenos also contain 17 micrograms of vitamin K per cup -- 19 percent of the recommended daily intake for women or 14 percent for men, according to the Institute of Medicine. Vitamin A. Jalapenos also offer health benefits due to their vitamin A content. You need vitamin A for healthy vision, and failure to get enough vitamin A negatively affects your eyesight, especially in low-light conditions.
Jalapenos are a variety of chili pepper. Although small in size at just 2 to 4 inches long, the jalapeno pepper packs a nutritional punch, with notable amounts of two important vitamins. Jalapenos are just one variety of chili pepper, a nightshade vegetable well known for a hot and pungent flavo
Like other peppers, jalapenos are a rich source of vitamin C, with almost 17 milligrams in a small pepper. That is equal to 18 percent of the recommended daily allowance for men and 23 percent for women. Although small in size at just 2 to 4 inches long, the jalapeno pepper packs a nutritional punch, with notable amounts of two important vitamins. Jalapenos are just one variety of chili pepper, a nightshade vegetable well known for a hot and pungent flavor
There are also vitamins and minerals in one serving of jalapenos jalapeños including14 % of the daily requirement Of Vitamin, a66 % Vitamin, c1 % calcium and4 %. Iron red peppers contain lycopene and have been shown to reduce the risk for certain types of. cancers One cup of sliced raw jalapenos jalapeños is considered to be a serving and contains only 27, calories mostly from carbohydrates and some. Protein there are also vitamins and minerals in one serving of jalapenos jalapeñosincluding 14 % of the daily Requirement Of, vitamina 66 %, vitaminc 1 % calciumand 4. % iron
Jalapenos are excellent sources of vitamins A and C, and folate. These peppers are extremely hot and spicy because of capsaicin, a chemical that is known to give it this fiery flavor. Extremely good for the health, jalapeno peppers are also known for inducing weight loss. Packed with vitamins, potassium as well as folic acid, jalapenos not only pump in nutrients into your body, but also add that spicy flavor to your meal. Also, since these are low on calories and sodium, you can be at peace about jalapeno nutritional benefits.
Vitamins and Minerals. Jalapenos contain heart-healthy vitamins and minerals such as vitamin K, which promotes blood clotting; potassium and magnesium, which help the heart contract; and iron, which carries oxygen throughout the body. Jalapeno peppers contain antioxidants that decrease the risk of disease and fight the effects of aging. In addition to vitamins A and C, jalapenos contain phenols, flavonoids and capsaicinoids that help the body fight free radicals and inflammation.
Jalapeno peppers also contain fat-soluble vitamins E and K. Like vitamin C, vitamin E protects your cells from dangerous free radicals. It also aids in cell communication and regulates your immune system. Vitamin K controls the formation of blood clots, aids in wound healing and plays a role in bone health. Vitamin A. Jalapenos also offer health benefits due to their vitamin A content. You need vitamin A for healthy vision, and failure to get enough vitamin A negatively affects your eyesight, especially in low-light conditions.
Vitamins in Jalapenos. The favorite choice for the term Jalapenos is 1 Jalapeno Pepper which has about 10 % of daily Vitamin C. The percent daily values of Vitamin C, Vitamin A, Calcium and Iron for a variety of types and serving sizes of Jalapenos is shown below. View other nutritional values (such as Calories, Carbs or Fats) using the filter below: Calories | Total Carbs | Total Fats | Protein | Sodium | Cholesterol | Vitamins
There are also vitamins and minerals in one serving of jalapenos jalapeños including14 % of the daily requirement Of Vitamin, a66 % Vitamin, c1 % calcium and4 %. Iron red peppers contain lycopene and have been shown to reduce the risk for certain types of. Cancers red peppers are also a source of Vitamin. b6 One cup of sliced raw jalapenos jalapeños is considered to be a serving and contains only 27, calories mostly from carbohydrates and some. Protein there are also vitamins and minerals in one serving of jalapenos jalapeñosincluding 14 % of the daily Requirement Of, vitamina 66 %, vitaminc 1 % calciumand 4. % iron