ROCKS AND LAYERS. Most of the rocks exposed at the surface of Earth are sedimentary --formed from particles of older rocks that have been broken apart by water or wind. The gravel, sand, and mud settle to the bottom in rivers, lakes, and oceans. Sedimentary rocks are formed particle by particle and bed by bed, and the layers are piled one on top of the other. Thus, in any sequence of layered rocks, a given bed must be older than any bed on top of it.
+++  Fossils do not form into sedimentary rock, but as th … e question  says, are in many, though not all sedimentary rocks. A fossil is  the cast of a dead organism whose decayed-away tissues or bones are  replaced by minerals in the parent sediment. Oil and coal are fossil fuels formed from organic debris, but  other fossils do not turn into them.  .  Metamorphic rocks are formed from any other rock by heat and/ or  pressure, not necessarily by heat alone; but metamorphism generally  destroy any fossils in sedimentary rocks undergoing the change.
Among the three major types of rock, fossils are most commonly found in sedimentary rock. Unlike most igneous and metamorphic rocks, sedimentary rocks form at temperatures and pressures that do not destroy fossil remnants. Clastic sedimentary rocks are composed of silicate minerals and rock fragments that were transported by moving fluids (as bed load, suspended load, or by sediment gravity flows) and were deposited when these fluids came to rest.
Sedimentary rock is rock that is formed in layers by the depositing and pressing of sediments on top of each other. Sediments are any loose material that gets broken away and carried: pieces of rocks, pebbles, sand, clay, silt, boulders, dead organisms, animals, plants, shells, insects. . . . 
Sedimentary rocks are types of rock that are formed by the deposition of material at the Earth 's surface and within bodies of water. Clastic sedimentary rocks are composed of silicate minerals and rock fragments that were transported by moving fluids (as bed load, suspended load, or by sediment gravity flows) and were deposited when these fluids came to rest.
Igneous rock forms from magma; no chance for fossils to form there.  Metamorphic rocks are other rock types that are changed by heat and  pressure; their transformation and mineral reorganization causes  very few fossils to be found there. Sedimentary rock can be formed  from the accumulation of sediments and are often formed near  ancient shores, basins, and lake beds. Oil and coal are fossil fuels formed from organic debris, but  other fossils do not turn into them.  .  Metamorphic rocks are formed from any other rock by heat and/ or  pressure, not necessarily by heat alone; but metamorphism generally  destroy any fossils in sedimentary rocks undergoing the change.
Sedimentary rock is formed when exposure to rain, heat, wind, and cold breaks down existing rock into small particles of sand, silt, and clay. These particles are carried by streams and rivers into lakes or seas, where they eventually settle to the bottom. Oil and coal are fossil fuels formed from organic debris, but  other fossils do not turn into them.  .  Metamorphic rocks are formed from any other rock by heat and/ or  pressure, not necessarily by heat alone; but metamorphism generally  destroy any fossils in sedimentary rocks undergoing the change.
Particles that form a sedimentary rock by accumulating are called sediment. Before being deposited, sediment was formed by weathering and erosion in a source area, and then transported to the place of deposition by water, wind, ice, mass movement or glaciers which are called agents of denudation. Clastic sedimentary rocks are composed of silicate minerals and rock fragments that were transported by moving fluids (as bed load, suspended load, or by sediment gravity flows) and were deposited when these fluids came to rest.
Report Abuse. Fossils are generally found in sedimentary rocks formed by soft silts and muds. The soft sediment preserves the fine details in the bones, teeth, and leaves of plants. Sometimes sediments fill an opening in a bone or shell and leave behind a cast of the inside of the living thing. Fossils cannot form in metamorphic or igneous rocks since metamorphic rocks are formed under extreme pressure and heat and igneous rocks are formed from magma both of which will destroy the fossil. Source(s): Guy of Awesomeness · 2 years ago. Thumbs up