Whole soy foods contain high levels of healthy protein and fiber. Fiber helps to reduce bad cholesterol. Plus, soy is a much better source of protein for your heart than saturated-fat-rich animal-derived foods. 
Story at-a-glance 1  +. Many health “experts” and the media tout unfermented soy products (tofu, soymilk, soy cheese, etc.) as being good for you, but in actuality, the risk of consuming them far outweighs the benefits. 2  Soy has many potent hormones that can wreak havoc with your health. Soy foods to avoid include: Tofu. TVP (texturized vegetable protein) or soy protein isolate, which contains a large amount of msg, which you should definitely not consume. 1  Soybean oil. 2  Soymilk. 3  Soy cheese, soy ice cream, soy yogurt. 4  Soy meat (meatless products made of TVP). 5  Soy protein. 6  Edamame. 7  Soy infant formula.
Foods containing soy protein are also a healthy alternative to meats and other animal products that contain cholesterol and saturated fat. Soy in Your Diet Soy foods and beverages have gained popularity, with sales increasing by nearly one third between 2003 and 2007. The real health benefits of soy might lie in its nutritional content and the fact that people often use soy foods as a replacement for less-healthy foods. Soy foods are a great source of protein and contain other important nutrients, such as fiber, B vitamins, and omega-3 fatty acids.
1 Many health “experts” and the media tout unfermented soy products (tofu, soymilk, soy cheese, etc.) as being good for you, but in actuality, the risk of consuming them far outweighs the benefits. 2  Soy has many potent hormones that can wreak havoc with your health. Soy foods to avoid include: Tofu. TVP (texturized vegetable protein) or soy protein isolate, which contains a large amount of msg, which you should definitely not consume. 1  Soybean oil. 2  Soymilk. 3  Soy cheese, soy ice cream, soy yogurt. 4  Soy meat (meatless products made of TVP). 5  Soy protein. 6  Edamame. 7  Soy infant formula.
The fact that soy is present in a lot of foods has nothing to do with your argument about the safety of isoflavones. The food industry uses isolated soy protein—which typically contains only very low levels of isoflavones, if any at all—as a functional ingredient. Jamie, soy is actually well digested from foods like tofu and soymilk as well as from fermented foods like tempeh and miso. All beans and whole grains contain phytic acid which does interfere to some extent with mineral absorption. However, because they are so high in iron, you end up absorbing some.
1 Say YES to whole, real soy. 2  The Okinawans are the world’s longest-lived people, probably in part because of their diet. 3  For more than five millennia, they’ve eaten whole, organic and fermented soy foods like miso, tempeh, tofu, soy milk, and edamame (young soybeans in the pod). 
The beans can be processed in a variety of ways. Common forms of soy (or soya) include soy meal, soy flour, soy milk, tofu, textured vegetable protein (TVP, which is made into a wide variety of vegetarian foods, some of them intended to imitate meat), tempeh, soy lecithin and soybean oil. For example, soybeans are the primary ingredient in many dairy product substitutes (e.g., soy milk, margarine, soy ice cream, soy yogurt, soy cheese, and soy cream cheese) and meat alternatives (e.g. veggie burgers). These substitutes are readily available in most supermarkets.
Traditional nonfermented food uses of soybeans include soy milk, and from the latter tofu and tofu skin. Fermented foods include soy sauce, fermented bean paste, natto, and tempeh, among others. The oil is used in many industrial applications. For example, soybeans are the primary ingredient in many dairy product substitutes (e.g., soy milk, margarine, soy ice cream, soy yogurt, soy cheese, and soy cream cheese) and meat alternatives (e.g. veggie burgers). These substitutes are readily available in most supermarkets.
Foods that contain whole soy are a good source of protein for vegetarians and vegans because they provide all the amino acids — a type of nutrient — that people need to stay healthy. The real health benefits of soy might lie in its nutritional content and the fact that people often use soy foods as a replacement for less-healthy foods. Soy foods are a great source of protein and contain other important nutrients, such as fiber, B vitamins, and omega-3 fatty acids.