The imperative mood is a verb form which makes a command or a request. For example: The main verb (i.e., the finite verb) in an imperative sentence will be in the imperative mood. In other words, it will be a command or a polite request. Here are some more examples of verbs in the imperative mood (shaded): Mood is the form a verb takes to show how it is to be regarded (e.g., as a fact, a command, a wish, an uncertainty). There are three major moods in English:
The imperative mood is used to tell someone to do something in a direct manner, or simply, a command. For a softer command, the subjunctive is often used. Because Spanish has two ways to address someone directly based on formality (tu tú and) usted there are two different manners in commanding these. people 
get is not an imperative verb. But used without a subject, as a command get can … be an imperative verb: Get down! Imperative verbs are used to give: commands/orders-Come here! Be quiet! offers-Have a drink. invitations-Come in. instructions-Take two twice a day. suggestions-Sit down, relax. Imperative verbs give orders. A list of imperative verbs for each  letter of the alphabet is answer, behave, clean, do, eat, fix,  give, halt, identify, jump, kill, leave, m … ake, notify, open, push,  quit, run, stop, take, untie, vote, win, x-ray, yell, and zip.
Imperative mood is mood that signals directive modality, especially in commands. Its use may be extended to signal permission. An imperative verb is typically not inflected for most of the grammatical categories associated with verbs in a language, especially tense and person. 
If an imperative takes a pronoun as an object, it is appended to the verb; for example, Dime (Tell me). Pronouns can be stacked like they can in indicative clauses: 1  Me lo dices. ( 2 You tell me it or You tell it to me, can also mean You tell me as lo usually isn't translated). 3  Dimelo.  dímelo The negative imperative is formed with the infinitive of the verb, preceded by the imperative of nōlle (to not want): nōlī stāre (don't stand, 2nd pers. singular) and nōlīte stāre (2nd pers. plural); compare the positive imperative stā (
Imperative Verbs. Imperative verbs are also known as ‘bossy verbs’- they tell people what to do! e.g. close. the door; empty. the bin; eat. your dinner! TASK ONE: Look at the words below-colour in the words that could be used as imperative verbs.
The verbs in sentences like Do it! and Say what you like! are in the imperative. ( 1 countable, grammar) A verb in imperative mood. ( 2 countable) An essential action, a must: something which is imperative. 
Imperative verbs are also known as Bossy verbs because they tell you what to do. We put imperative verbs at the beginning of a sentence, which automatically changes them into commands or actions that must be done.We can leave out a lot of the normal language of a sentence so we get to the point a lot quicker.
Here are some more examples of verbs in the imperative mood (shaded): Mood is the form a verb takes to show how it is to be regarded (e.g., as a fact, a command, a wish, an uncertainty). In other words, it will be a command or a polite request. Here are some more examples of verbs in the imperative mood (shaded): Mood is the form a verb takes to show how it is to be regarded (e.g., as a fact, a command, a wish, an uncertainty). There are three major moods in English:
We are telling some what to do. Sentence two uses an imperative to tell someone what to do. Note: we can make 'Close the door' into a request by adding 'Please' first: 'Please, close the door.'. An imperative is base verb (present simple verb). Above, 'close' is the verb. Imperatives are direct. 