Figure 1: The lac operon in E.coli. Three lactose metabolism genes (lacZ, lacY, and lacA) are organized together in a cluster called the lac operon. The coordinated transcription and translation of the lac operon structural genes is supported by a shared promoter, operator, and terminator. A lac regulator gene with its promoter is found just outside the lac operon.
The lac operon, an inducible operon, is a mechanism used by bacterial cells as an economical means to restrict the expression of the structural genes necessary for metabolizing lactose, a disaccharide. These structural genes break down lactose when lactose is the best carbon source available within its environs. When glucose is present, the CRP does not bind to the promoter and expression of the lac operon remains low even if lactose is present. However, when glucose is absent, the CAP binds to the promoter region and promotes transcription. Glucose does not directly regulate the binding of CRP. A cAMP-CRP complex is entailed.
With lactose in the cell, lactose binds to the repressor. This causes a structural change in the repressor and it loses its affinity for the operator. Thus RNA polymerase can then bind to the promoter and transcribe the structural genes. In this system lactose acts as an effector molecule. This decrease in the complex inactivates the promoter, and the lac operon is turned off. Because the CAP-cAMP complex is needed for transcription, the complex exerts a positive control over the expression of the lac operon. Copyright © 1997.
An essential molecule is required in the positive regulation of the lac operon. This molecule is a protein called the cyclic AMP receptor protein, CRP. It stimulates transcription of the operon by binding to the promoter site and by so doing enhances the RNA polymerase binding ability to the promoter. When glucose is present, the CRP does not bind to the promoter and expression of the lac operon remains low even if lactose is present. However, when glucose is absent, the CAP binds to the promoter region and promotes transcription. Glucose does not directly regulate the binding of CRP. A cAMP-CRP complex is entailed.
The lac operon. In the absence of lactose, the repressor protein encoded by the I gene binds to the lac operator and prevents transcription. Binding of allolactose to the repressor causes it to leave the operator. This enables RNA polymerase to transcribe the three genes of the
1 The lac operon consists of three structural genes, and a promoter, a terminator, regulator, and an operator. 2  The three structural genes are: lacZ, lacY, and lacA. In this case, when lactose is required as a sugar source for the bacterium, the three genes of the lac operon can be expressed and their subsequent proteins translated
Expression of the lac operon is, in fact, regulated by the presence of lactose itself. The ability to turn lactose-metabolizing genes on or off as a group therefore provides an efficient way to quickly adapt to environmental changes. The coordinated transcription and translation of the lac operon structural genes is supported by a shared promoter, operator, and terminator. A lac regulator gene with its promoter is found just outside the lac operon.
lac operon (lactose operon) is an operon required for the transport and metabolism of lactose in Escherichia coli and many other enteric bacteria. Although glucose is the preferred carbon source for most bacteria, the lac operon allows for the effective digestion of lactose when glucose is not available. In this case, when lactose is required as a sugar source for the bacterium, the three genes of the lac operon can be expressed and their subsequent proteins translated: lacZ, lacY, and lacA.
Concept 6: The Effect of Lactose on the lac Operon. When lactose is present, the lac genes are expressed because allolactose binds to the Lac repressor protein and keeps it from binding to the lac operator. Allolactose is an isomer of lactose. Small amounts of allolactose are formed when lactose enters E. coli. 