In the United Kingdom, the Netherlands and France, the abbreviation DTP refers to a combination vaccine against diphtheria, tetanus, and poliomyelitis. In the Netherlands, pertussis is known as kinkhoest and DKTP refers to a combination vaccine against diphtheria, pertussis/kinkhoest, tetanus, and polio. DTaP (also DTPa and TDaP) is a combined vaccine against diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis, in which the component with lower case 'a' is acellular. This is in contrast to whole-cell, inactivated DTP (aka DTwP). The acellular vaccine uses selected antigens of the pertussis pathogen to induce immunity.
Usually every 10 yrs: After the initial childhood series, a td (tetanus and diphtheria) booster is recommended every 10 yrs. If there is a significant wound, a booster is recommended if it has been 5 or more years since the last one. Does a tetanus booster i had 10 yrs. 7. Get help from a doctor now ›. Depends: If you never had a tetanus shot previously then it was the first. If you had the primary series in childhood, it is just a booster & due again every 10 years.
The Vaccine. The vaccine to prevent tetanus generally is given in combination with vaccines to prevent diphtheria and pertussis (whooping cough). The vaccine given to children through age 7 is called DTaP while the booster vaccine for adolescents and adults is called Tdap. Additional abbreviations for the tetanus-containing vaccines are: DTP, DT or Td. The Disease. Tetanus (lockjaw) is a serious disease that causes painful tightening of the muscles, usually all over the body. It can lead to locking of the jaw so the victim cannot open his mouth or swallow. Tetanus leads to death in about 1 in 10 cases.
DTaP and Tdap refer to similar combination vaccines in which the component with lower case 'a' is acellular. Also available is the DT or TD vaccine, which lacks the pertussis component. The Tdap vaccine is currently recommended by the CDC and covers tetanus, diphtheria and pertussis (CDC Vaccines, 2013). DTaP (also DTPa and TDaP) is a combined vaccine against diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis, in which the component with lower case 'a' is acellular. This is in contrast to whole-cell, inactivated DTP (aka DTwP). The acellular vaccine uses selected antigens of the pertussis pathogen to induce immunity.
This page is designed to assist you in interpreting both old and new immunization records such as the yellow California Immunization Record, the International Certificate of Vaccination (Military issued shot record) or the Mexican Immunization Card described in the shaded sections. 
This page is designed to assist you in interpreting both old and new immunization records such as the yellow California Immunization Record, the International Certificate of Vaccination (Military issued shot record) or the Mexican Immunization Card described in the shaded sections. 
This acronym may be used for either or both serogroup B meningococcal vaccines on vaccination records, schedules, or other documents when it is unnecessary to distinguish between the two products. † several manufacturers; for complete listing, see U.S. Vaccines [4 pages] and U.S. Vaccine Names. § For additional Hib vaccine acronyms, see Haemophilus influenzae type b Vaccines Acronyms. ¶ For additional meningococcal vaccine acronyms, see Meningococcal Vaccines Acronyms table. ** For more information on IIV flu vaccines, see the flu vaccines table