Ciprofloxacin is a prescription antibiotic. It belongs to a class of drugs called fluoroquinolones, or quinolones for short. This medication is an active ingredient in several different prescription products and is used to treat a variety of infections. Ciprofloxacin comes in many forms, including: 1  A regular tablet. 2  An extended-release tablet.
Do not give to puppies younger than 28 weeks of age. What is Ciprofloxacin: Ciprofloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibiotic used for the treatment of bacterial infections of the urinary tract, skin, respiratory tract, and wound infections due to susceptible organisms. This medication may also be used for purposes other than those listed in this guide. 
Ciprofloxacin is used to treat a wide variety of infections, including infections of bones and joints, endocarditis, gastroenteritis, malignant otitis externa, respiratory tract infections, cellulitis, urinary tract infections, prostatitis, anthrax, and chancroid. 
Ciprofloxacin is the generic form of the brand-name antibiotic Cipro. Doctors prescribe ciprofloxacin to treat or prevent infections caused by various bacteria that are sensitive to ciprofloxacin. The drug works by preventing bacteria from reproducing. Ciprofloxacin belongs to a family of antibiotics called fluoroquinolones.
Uses of This Medicine. Ciprofloxacin is used to treat bacterial infections in many different parts of the body. Ciprofloxacin oral liquid and tablets are also used to treat anthrax infection after inhalational exposure. Ciprofloxacin may mask or delay the symptoms of syphilis. It is not effective against syphilis infections. Ciprofloxacin extended-release tablets are only used to treat urinary tract infections, including acute uncomplicated pyelonephritis. Proquin® XR tablets are only used to treat uncomplicated or simple urinary tract infections (acute cystitis)
Descriptions. Ciprofloxacin is used to treat bacterial infections in many different parts of the body. Ciprofloxacin oral liquid and tablets are also used to treat anthrax infection after inhalational exposure. Ciprofloxacin may mask or delay the symptoms of syphilis. It is not effective against syphilis infections. Ciprofloxacin belongs to the class of drugs known as quinolone antibiotics. It works by killing bacteria or preventing their growth. However, this medicine will not work for colds, flu, or other virus infections. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription.
Also, ciprofloxacin is used for treating infections only when they are caused by certain types of bacteria. Although this drug is considered a broad spectrum antibiotic, which means it is effective against many different types of bacteria, not all bacteria will respond to it. Ciprofloxacin is a prescription antibiotic that belongs to a group of drugs called fluoroquinolones, or just quinolones for short. It is available in several different forms and strengths, and is used to treat a variety of infections.
Ciprofloxacin is an antibiotic in a group of drugs called fluoroquinolones (flor-o-KWIN-o-lones). Ciprofloxacin fights bacteria in the body. Ciprofloxacin is used to treat different types of bacterial infections. Ciprofloxacin may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. 