Lodging rates are almost never used by truckers in their per diem deduction because the hotel costs are almost always covered by the trucker's employer. The IRS Publication that lists per diem rates for travel within the Continental United States (CONUS) is called IRS Publication 1542. IRS Publication 1542 contains all the domestic CONUS per diem rates established by the GSA for each individual locality and year.
Rates vary by location. According to the U.S. General Services Administration, if a trucker is allotted $56 in per diem expenses a day, that breaks down to about $9 for breakfast, $13 for lunch, $29 for dinner and $5 for incidental charges. Operating Expense. Many accountants classify per diem expenses for truckers as operating expenses. The per diem expenses are often necessary for truckers to do their jobs properly. A truck won't drive without gas, and a trucker can't work properly without food and other essentials vital for living and working.
The per diem rate for meals as of 2011 is 80 percent of $59 per day in the continental United States and 80 percent of $65 per day if you travel to Canada or Mexico. The IRS requires you to keep track of your per diem expenses in order to receive the per diem deduction. A per diem is a rate given to employees or contractors to cover the daily expense of meals, lodging or another item. Every industry has different rates, and the trucking industry has a per diem meal rate set by the Internal Revenue Service.
For travel post-September 30, 2012, the IRS-approved per diem rate for high-cost areas is $242 (reflecting $177 for lodging and $65 for meals and incidental expenses). The IRS-approved per diem rate for all other areas is $163 (reflecting $111 for lodging and $52 for meals and incidental expenses). The $242/$163 amounts are unchanged from last year’s amounts.
Per diem expenses for truckers are expenses that are granted for truckers that live away from home during work. For example, meals are a per diem expense. Lodging and clothing might be acceptable as well, depending on the employer. Employers grant truckers a certain amount of per diem expenses each day, week or job. Operating Expense. Many accountants classify per diem expenses for truckers as operating expenses. The per diem expenses are often necessary for truckers to do their jobs properly. A truck won't drive without gas, and a trucker can't work properly without food and other essentials vital for living and working.
This information is published in IRS Publication 463 and establishes the limits for daily meal deductions that truck drivers can take. Employers, on the other hand, adhere to Publication 1542, which establishes the maximum per diem rates the employer can pay the employee as a reimbursement of expenses. 
Trucker Per Diem Rates. News. Prior to Nov,1, 2003 the per diem rate for meals was 65% of $40 per day. After Nov,1, 2003 the rate increased to 70% of $41 per day
50% usually for the rest. Truckers usually are allowed 80% of a $59 per diem rate. While the rest are allowed 50% of a $46 per diem rate. Some locales have higher rates, and exceptions can apply, but generally the $59/$46 and 80%/50% rates will apply to most circumstances. You may wish to research more if the trucker is self employed, or an employee etc