Well it was brand new but it has been riding around in the trunk for about 2 or 3 years. Does unused motor oil go bad from say the hot summer days sitting in the trunk or should it be ok to use. I am thinking of not paying to have the oil changed...
Yes, oil does go bad and spoiled oil is called rancid oil. It is an organic substance and is subject to oxidation, cross-linking and bacterial contamination. The question of course is how long does it take. Keeping it in a sealed factory container greatly extends its shelf life. Does unused motor oil go bad from say the hot summer days sitting in the trunk or should it be ok to use. I am thinking of not paying to have the oil changed...
Intermitant motors should be replaced. From experience, relays and transformers rarely go out. It is usually the motor that burns out and it usually does so quickly when at life's end. Take the time to check all of your wire connections-hours can be spent diagnosing a vacuum only to find out it was a bad connection. 
Re: does motor oil go bad if its been in the original sealed container. Oil doesn't really get old, poorer formulations as mentioned above do tend to seperate and that can be a concern. Basically oil does not wear out or break down it gets dirty and that's the problem. MTF Member # 19601. Re: does motor oil go bad if its been in the original sealed container. I was given a case of oil that was from the 1960's It was not bottles ,it was card board quarts with the metal top and bottom.
Well it was brand new but it has been riding around in the trunk for about 2 or 3 years. Does unused motor oil go bad from say the hot summer days sitting in the trunk or should it be ok to use. I am thinking of not paying to have the oil changed and doing it myself again. Thxs. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. Does unused motor oil go bad from say the hot summer days sitting in the trunk or should it be ok to use. I am thinking of not paying to have the oil changed...
If the blower wheel is out of balance that can take out blower motors, I've seen in as quick as 1 year. When you replace a blower motor, it's good practice to replace the wheel as well. It does not take much to put one out of balance, and sometimes it is a wrestling match getting the wheel of a old motor. Remember that blower motor is moving a lot of weight, thousands of pounds of air per hour and if you don't have the wright amount of return and supply air for the unit the motor can be put under a lot of added stress. If that's the case it will continue to take out blower motors.
MTF Member # 32442. does motor oil go bad if its been in the original sealed container. i was given 5 gallons of shell rotella 15-40 today. its been sitting in a box on a shelf for who knows how long. all the jugs are sealed. the label says safe on diesel engines built after 2002 so i assume it was made after 2002. MTF Member # 19601. Re: does motor oil go bad if its been in the original sealed container. I was given a case of oil that was from the 1960's It was not bottles ,it was card board quarts with the metal top and bottom.
Misalignment. Securing a motor not only fastens an engine, but aligns it, meaning that the engine’s height is ensured to be equal on all sides. If the motor mounts are in fact bad, the engine will sag and droop to one side. Again, there may be noises emitting from the engine that does not sound quite right. Check on the engine and inspect to see if the engine is tilted. If so, the mounts are bad. However, if the engine is tilting excessively, an engine block may result. In other words, your car may stop in its tracks—check the engine for drooping, and, if so, replace any and all motor mounts as necessary.
Re: does motor oil go bad if its been in the original sealed container. I buy at a lot of auctions; and have bought a lot of oil that was bottled, or canned years ago. It has been fine. In fact, when it comes to non-detergent engine oil; I prefer to use old stock. MTF Member # 19601. Re: does motor oil go bad if its been in the original sealed container. I was given a case of oil that was from the 1960's It was not bottles ,it was card board quarts with the metal top and bottom.