What is happening here is that with excess of salt, the harmalas get the Chlorine ions from salt and precipitate in the salt harmala form, harmine and harmaline HCl, which are insoluble in salt saturated water therefore precipitate. If you only have sodium carb and want to separate harmine from harmaline you'll also need a pH meter) Lye (optional). 1  Salt (rock salt or iodine free table salt). 2  Vinegar. 3  Sodium Carbonate (which can be made from sodium bicarb by putting in the oven on high for an hour or two). 4  Sodium Bicarbonate (optional. 5 
Peganum harmala, commonly called Esfand, wild rue, Syrian rue, African rue, harmel, or aspand (among other similar pronunciations and spellings) is a plant of the family Nitrariaceae. Its common English-language name came about because of a resemblance to rue (which is not related). Peganum harmala has been used as an emmenagogue and abortifacient agent. The root is applied to kill lice  and when burned, the seeds kill insects and inhibit the reproduction of the Tribolium castaneum beetle. It is also used as an anthelmintic (to expel parasitic worms
Peganum harmala contains beta-carboline alkaloids (harmine, harmaline, harmalol) that are toxic to both humans and animals. These alkaloids are used in alcoholic beverages, well-cooked foods, and tobacco smoke, and they have known hallucinogenic and strong monoamine oxidase inhibitory (MAOI) activity. Harmala alkaloids, harmaline and harmine, are known to cause tremors. When consumed by farm animals, Peganum harmala may have either a sedative or stimulant effect. In humans, the seeds are known to primarily cause a stimulant and hallucinogenic effect. Peganum harmala may interfere with the way the body processes certain drugs using the liver's cytochrome P450 enzyme system. As a result, the levels of these drugs may be increased in the blood and may cause increased effects or potentially serious adverse reactions.
Peganum harmala may cause low or high blood pressure and may interact with drugs that affect blood pressure. Peganum harmala may interfere with the way the body processes certain drugs using the liver's cytochrome P450 enzyme system. As a result, the levels of these drugs may be increased in the blood and may cause increased effects or potentially serious adverse reactions.
However, Splettstoeser et al. [9] report that harmala alkoloids “have been shown to protect neurons against the excitotoxic effects of dopamine and glutamate.” As is the case with Taxol ® , harmala alkaloids are difficult to synthesize. However, harmala alkaloids are easy to extract from species of passion flowers. There was an average of .00935 mg/g of harmine present, with a range of 0.00730 mg/g as well. The largest peak was qualitatively identified as vitexin. The levels of the harmala alkaloids varied widely between the two samples of Passiflora incarnata.
In the past, there has been speculation regarding the pharmacological effects of harmala alkaloids, and the findings that indicated the 20. AMERICAN JOURNAL OF UNDERGRADUATE RESEARCH VOL. 6, NO. 3 R = H, OH, OCH 3 Figure 2. Basic Structure of harmala alkaloids. compounds possessed cytotoxic properties. There was an average of .00935 mg/g of harmine present, with a range of 0.00730 mg/g as well. The largest peak was qualitatively identified as vitexin. The levels of the harmala alkaloids varied widely between the two samples of Passiflora incarnata.
ISSN: 2028-2508 CODEN: JMESCN 563 Table 4 and Figure 2. The three methods are in good agreement and this value indicates that the TAS P.harmala is moderately toxic Figure2: Percentage of mortality as a function of the dose of (TAS) administered intraperitoneally 3.2.  Detection of alkaloids: 20 mL of the extract was added to 5 mL of hydrochloric acid HCl (10%). At this acidic medium heated in a water bath, was added a volume of ammonium hydroxide solution (10%) until obtain a medium of pH= 9 which was extracted with diethylic ether and concentrate with a rotary evaporator.
Home :: Magic Garden :: Seeds :: Syrian Rue-Peganum harmala Seeds & Extract. The seeds of this plant contain a remarkably high amount of the same MAO-inhibiting alkaloids found in the Ayahuasca vine, Banisteriopsis caapi, making it an excellent ingredient in Ayahuasca borealis brews. 
The flowers are white and are about 2.5–3.8 cm in diameter. The round seed capsules measure about 1–1.5 cm in diameter, have three chambers and carry more than 50 seeds. Peganum harmala was first planted in the United States in 1928 in New Mexico by a farmer wanting to manufacture the dye Iranian red from its seeds. Peganum harmala has been used as an emmenagogue and abortifacient agent. The root is applied to kill lice  and when burned, the seeds kill insects and inhibit the reproduction of the Tribolium castaneum beetle. It is also used as an anthelmintic (to expel parasitic worms)