It would later be named “margarine”. Whereas butter is made from the butterfat of milk, modern margarine is made mainly of refined vegetable oil and water, and may also contain milk. In some locales it is colloquially referred to as  oleo , short for oleomargarine. Three types of margarine are common: 1  Soft vegetable fat spreads, high in mono-or polyunsaturated fats, which are made from safflower, sunflower, soybean, cottonseed, rapeseed, or olive oil. 2  Margarines in bottle to cook or top dishes. 3  Hard, generally uncolored margarine for cooking or baking.
Butter is made by churning milk or cream. It is a diary product. Margarine is made by emulsifying vegetable oil with skimmed milk or by hydrogenating vegetable oils. It may be a plant product or a combination of plant and dairy product. Butter has 33mg cholesterol in one table spoon. Technically, margarine is partially hydrogenated vegetable oil. Margarine contains unsaturated fatty acids and little to no cholesterol; however it may contain trans fat, which causes heart problems.
Margarine is made from vegetable oil, so it does not contain cholesterol. It’s also higher in heart-healthy unsaturated fats – polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats – than butter. When substituted for saturated fat (found in animal foods), unsaturated fats can help to lower LDL (bad) cholesterol in the blood. Butter is made from animal fat and is a concentrated source of saturated fat – five grams per two teaspoon serving versus two grams or less found in most margarines. (The small amount of trans fat in butter – 0.2 grams per two teaspoons – is naturally occurring.
Answer by Winnr. Confidence votes 95. Butter is a dairy product that is made by churning (the process of shaking up milk or cream) cream or milk. Essentially, it consists of fat, milk proteins, and water. Butter's main ingredient is chemically called a lipid (common name is fat)
Butter: The UK food standards agency classifies butter as a product with “a milk fat content of more than 80% but less than 90%”. Margarine is “obtained from vegetable and/or animal fats with a fat content of more than 80% but less than 90%”. According to DEFRA only a “small number of producers in the UK make a fat spread that would legally qualify as margarine.” In this report only Tomor is classified as a margarine.
The softer tub margarines are made with less hydrogenated, more liquid, oils than block margarines. Three types of margarine are common: 1  Soft vegetable fat spreads, high in mono-or polyunsaturated fats, which are made from safflower, sunflower, soybean, cottonseed, rapeseed, or olive oil. 2  Margarines in bottle to cook or top dishes. 3  Hard, generally uncolored margarine for cooking or baking.
Although many people are sensitive to cow s milk dairy products, butter is often well-tolerated by these peoople. This is because butter is almost a pure fat, and does not contain many of the allergens found in other milk products. For example, it does not contain milk protein (casein) or milk sugar (lactose). These are the two components of other dairy products that often cause milk allergies. Butter made from raw (unpasteurized) cream is available in some areas. It is the best quality butter