In general, animal science deals with the study of non-human animals. More specifically, the discipline emphasizes domestic animals, or animals that are controlled and cared for to some degree by humans. Major biological issues such as physiology, anatomy, and development are investigated by animal scientists. Agricultural science includes the study of common farm animals, such as cows and pigs. Studying animal science can lead to a career as a park ranger. An animal behaviorist who is interested in animal communication might study cuttlefish, which are marine cephalopods that communicate by changing skin color.
Animal science can also be called Zoology, especially if this is dealing with the study of wild animals. However Animal Science is still called Animal Science when studying animal agriculture in dealing with livestock like chickens, sheep, cattle and pigs. Zoology is a branch of science which deals in the study of animals including physiology, behaviour, classification, and diet. Animal husbandry is a field of animal science occupied with the study and applications of animal reproduction,practical applications include pet or livestock breeding,he … reditary diseases and mutations,and possible benefits to human health sciences through controlled experimentation. 6 people found this useful.
An animal scientist applies principles of the biological, physical, and social sciences to the problems associated with livestock production and management. Animal Science is also concerned with foods of animal origin: meat, dairy foods, and eggs. The food industry is one of the largest and most important industries in the United States. In addition, animal science is concerned with aspects of companion animals, including their nutrition, care, and welfare.
Animal Science is described as studying the biology of animals that are under the control of humankind. Youth programs are also an important part of animal science programs. Many schools that offer a degree option in Animal Science also offer a pre-veterinary emphasis such as the University of Nebraska-Lincoln and the University of Minnesota, for example.
An animal science major can provide you with an in-depth knowledge of animal health, animal behavior, farm management and livestock production. Those who study animal science can pursue a variety of jobs involving the care of animals, though some positions require additional education beyond the bachelor's degree. Research what it takes to work in animal science. Learn about the education requirements, job duties, job outlook and salary for potential careers in this field to find out if majoring in animal science is right for you.
Animal science is the study of animals that live alongside humans. Around the world, humans rely on animals for food, fiber, labor and companionship. Animal scientists help us understand and manage these animals. Animal scientists work with farm animals, wildlife, laboratory animals, pets and zoo animals. They study these animals to help keep them healthy and productive. Animal scientists help put food on our tables.
Knowledge of such basic subjects as animal behavior and management, genetics, microbiology, nutrition, physiology, reproduction, and meat science is essential to persons entering most animal sciences professions. However, a farm or animal-related background is not required. The food industry is one of the largest and most important industries in the United States. In addition, animal science is concerned with aspects of companion animals, including their nutrition, care, and welfare.
An animal science program teaches you topics including animal care, livestock production, breeding and animal disease control. A major in animal science prepares you to work in a variety of fields, including animal behavior, veterinary sciences, agriculture and biotechnology. Research what it takes to work in animal science. Learn about the education requirements, job duties, job outlook and salary for potential careers in this field to find out if majoring in animal science is right for you.
Professional education in animal science prepares students for career opportunities in areas such as animal breeding, food and fiber production, nutrition, animal agribusiness, animal behavior and welfare, and biotechnology. Youth programs are also an important part of animal science programs. Many schools that offer a degree option in Animal Science also offer a pre-veterinary emphasis such as the University of Nebraska-Lincoln and the University of Minnesota, for example.
Animal Science is a diverse and fascinating blend of applied and basic life sciences, ultimately focused on enhancing the efficiency, profitability and sustainability of domestic animal industries. Science and Technology — Students interested more in the biotechnology and science of animal science would be interested in this concentration. Consequently, there is less emphasis on business and more on the physical and biological sciences in addition to animal science.