Artist's illustration of a classical nova system just before an explosion on the surface of the white dwarf. Classical novae occur in a system where a white dwarf closely orbits a normal, companion star. In this illustration, gas is flowing from the large red,companion star into a disk and then onto the white dwarf that is hidden inside the white area.
Communities in the region form the Virginia portion of the Washington Metropolitan Area and the larger Baltimore-Washington Metropolitan Area. Northern Virginia is the highest-income region of Virginia, having seven of the 20 highest-income counties in the nation, including the three highest as of 2009. Most narrowly defined, Northern Virginia consists of the counties of Arlington, Fairfax, Loudoun and Prince William (plus the independent cities found therein), with a total population of roughly 2.3 million.
A helium nova (or helium flash) is a proposed category of nova explosion that lacks hydrogen lines in the spectrum. This may be caused by the explosion of a helium shell on a white dwarf. It was proposed by Kato, Saio and Hachisu in 1989. The first candidate helium nova to be observed was V445 Puppis in 2000. The recurrence interval for a nova is less dependent on the white dwarf's accretion rate than on its mass; with their powerful gravity, massive white dwarfs require less accretion to fuel an outburst than lower-mass ones.
Nova is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced No-va. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 287 in baby name popularity for girls with 1121 occurrences. It ranked 1553 in popular baby names for boys with 102 occurrences. View the Nova Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Nova has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Nova to other names. The name Novus is a form of Nova. Nova falls into the celestial name category.
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Nova in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Nova in Nautical Flags page. View the Nova Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Nova has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Nova to other names. The name Novus is a form of Nova. Nova falls into the celestial name category.
What does Nova mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Nova is of Latin and English origin. The meaning of Nova is new. It is also of Hopi origin, where its meaning is chases butterflies. View the Nova Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Nova has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Nova to other names. The name Novus is a form of Nova. Nova falls into the celestial name category.
1 LOCATION AND SIZE. Nova Scotia is one of Canada's Atlantic provinces and consists largely of a peninsula that is 360 miles (580 kilometers) in length. The peninsula is surrounded by four bodies of water—the Atlantic Ocean, the Bay of Fundy, the Northumberland Strait, and the Gulf of St. Lawrence. Nova Scotia consists of 18 counties, of which 12 are separate municipalities and the other 6 are each separated into two districts. The 24 rural municipalities contain 39 incorporated towns and 3 cities. Towns must have a population of at least 1,500 in an area of less than 640 acres (1 square mile).
The nova is the result of the rapid fusion of the accreted hydrogen on the surface of the star, commencing a runaway fusion reaction. The recurrence interval for a nova is less dependent on the white dwarf's accretion rate than on its mass; with their powerful gravity, massive white dwarfs require less accretion to fuel an outburst than lower-mass ones.
Artist's conception of a white dwarf accreting hydrogen from a larger companion. A nova (plural novae or novas) is a cataclysmic nuclear explosion on a white dwarf, which causes a sudden brightening of the star. Novae are not to be confused with other brightening phenomena such as supernovae or luminous red novae. The recurrence interval for a nova is less dependent on the white dwarf's accretion rate than on its mass; with their powerful gravity, massive white dwarfs require less accretion to fuel an outburst than lower-mass ones.
Far from being new stars, as their historical name suggests, novae consist of a white dwarf primary in close orbit around an orange or red dwarf or (in some cases) giant secondary, the fuel for the outbursts being gas plundered from the larger star by the white dwarf. Classical novae occur in a system where a white dwarf closely orbits a normal, companion star. In this illustration, gas is flowing from the large red,companion star into a disk and then onto the white dwarf that is hidden inside the white area.