Bloomin’ Brands International. Bloomin’ Brands International segment contributed about 13% to the company’s revenue in 2014. This total includes revenues from all company-owned and franchise restaurants outside the US.
About Bloomin' Brands, Inc. As one of the largest casual dining restaurant companies in the world, Bloomin' Brands, Inc. offers a “best in class” portfolio of casual and fine dining restaurants (Outback Steakhouse, Carrabba’s Italian Grill, Bonefish Grill, Fleming’s Prime Steakhouse and Wine Bar). 
Unlock more access to Hoover’s! 1  Build customized email lists 24/7, based on your best customer profile. 2  Learn more about the companies you want to sell to. 3  Hoover’s has reports on 85+ million companies and 900 industries. Bloomin' Brands does hope you think of Bloomin' Onions when you see its name. And steaks, Italian food, and seafood. The company, which operates through the US's #2 casual dining company. , owns some 1,350 restaurants. It also franchises about 165
Bloomin' Brands, Inc. to Host Fiscal 2015 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call at 9:00 AM ET on August 4, 2015. Bloomin' Brands Announces 2015 First Quarter Adjusted Diluted EPS of $0.54 and Diluted EPS of $0.47. SiteZeus Secures $2.2 Million in Series A Funding Led by Bloomin' Brands Founder Chris Sullivan. There are currently no press releases for this ticker. 
Outback Steakhouse overview. Outback Steakhouse is a full-service casual restaurant primarily serving steaks. The ambiance is set up to match “Australian decor.” Décor the menu includes a variety of, steaks, appetizers, chicken, ribs, chops, seafood and. Desserts the brand also offers a menu under 600. calories Outback Steakhouse overview. Outback Steakhouse is a full-service casual restaurant primarily serving steaks. The ambiance is set up to match “Australian decor.” Décor the menu includes a variety of, steaks, appetizers, chicken, ribs, chops, seafood and. desserts
Profile BLMN. Bloomin' Brands, Inc. is a casual dining restaurant company, with a portfolio of differentiated restaurant concepts. The company has four founder-inspired concepts, which include Outback Steakhouse, casual dining steakhouse featuring high quality, freshly prepared food,... 
I issue a HOLD recommendation on Bloomin' Brands, Inc. with a year-end 2015 target price of $27.88, with upside potential towards my bull case price of $31, giving investors potential upside return of 8.22% and 20.34%, respectively. Reasons for Upside Potential: 1  Significant margin improvement opportunities. 
Press Releases. 1  Bloomin' Brands, Inc. to Host Fiscal 2015 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call at 9:00 AM ET on November 3, 2015. 2  The Habit Restaurants, Inc. 3  Bloomin' Brands Announces 2015 Second Quarter Adjusted Diluted EPS of $0.28 and Diluted EPS of $0.26; 
Comments 0. Bloomin’ Brands Inc. plans to sell its 28-unit upscale concept Roy’s Restaurant, the company said Tuesday, after deciding the brand would get more attention under new owners. “The brand is a small part of our portfolio,” CEO Elizabeth Smith said during a call Tuesday discussing third-quarter earnings.