Hydro comes from the Greek word for water. Hydro-electricity, or hydro-power, is usually generated by turbines in a dam in a river. The dam means that a great body of water builds up in the river valley behind the dam. This is released through the turbines when electricity is needed. 
Benefits of Hydropower. Water power offers a number of advantages to the communities that they serve. Below are just some of the benefits that hydropower has over other methods of providing energy. 1 Because hydropower plants can generate power to the grid immediately, they provide essential back-up power during major electricity outages or disruptions. 2  In addition to a sustainable fuel source, hydropower efforts produce a number of benefits, such as flood control, irrigation, and water supply.
Disadvantages of hydroelectric power. There are many disadvantages of hydroelectric power due to which it is not used on a very large scale all around the globe. Before employing something on an industrial level, you should consider pros and cons of hydropower. So the disadvantages are: The reservoir of water for hydroelectric power releases a large amount of carbon dioxide and methane. The area around the dam is filled with water. The plants and trees in them start rotting and decompose by other method without the use of oxygen.
1 The energy generated through hydropower relies on the water cycle, which is driven by the sun, making it a renewable power source, making it a more reliable and affordable source than fossil fuels that are rapidly being depleted. 1 Because hydropower plants can generate power to the grid immediately, they provide essential back-up power during major electricity outages or disruptions. 2  In addition to a sustainable fuel source, hydropower efforts produce a number of benefits, such as flood control, irrigation, and water supply.
Hydropower – Advantages and Disadvantages of Hydropower. Hydropower is the energy generated by the water power, using gravity and buoyancy waterfall. It is the most used form of renewable energy. Once built, a hydropower plant, it produces energy without emitting greenhouse gases compared to fossil fuels. In 2006, total production of hydropower, TW 2998 was approximately 20% of global consumption. This represented 88% of energy from renewable sources. 1 The main advantage of hydropower is that the production costs are eliminated; 2  Hydropower plants have a higher economic lifetime; 3  The maintenance cost of such sources of “green energy” is very small, since the equipment is automated and does not require a large staff during power generation;
Hydro Power. Hydropower has now become the best source of electricity on earth. It is produced due to the energy provided by moving or falling water. History proves that the cost of this electricity remains constant over the year.
Advantages Hydropower is a fueled by water, so it's a clean fuel source. Hydropower doesn't pollute the air like power plants that burn fossil fuels, such as coal or natural gas. Hydropower is a domestic source of energy, produced in the United States. Hydropower relies on the water cycle, which is driven by the sun, thus it's a renewable power source. Hydropower is generally available as needed; engineers can control the flow of water through the turbines to produce electricity on demand. Hydropower plants provide benefits in addition to clean electricity
Hydropower advantages and disadvantages. Ned Haluzan. Hydropower is also sometimes called water power, and is basically a power that is coming from the force or energy of moving water. Hydropower offers some advantages over some other energy sources but there are also some disadvantages that should also be mentioned. Let's start with advantages.