The nucleus is an organelle that is surrounded by a double membrane called the nuclear envelope. The nuclear envelope separates the contents of the nucleus from the rest of the cell. Eukaryotic cells also have a cell membrane (plasma membrane), cytoplasm, cytoskeleton, and various cellular organelles. Examples of organelles found in plant cells and animal cells include: Prokaryotic cells have a structure that is less complex than eukaryotic cells. They do not have a nucleus or region where the DNA is bound by a membrane. Prokaryotic DNA is coiled up in a region of the cytoplasm called the nucleoid.
Plant cells contain some organelles not found in animal cells, such as cell walls and chloroplasts. Each organelle has specific functions in the life and health of the cell, and cell health is important for the well-being of the entire organism. 
Nucleus-The nucleus is the control center of the cell. It is the largest organelle in the cell and it contains the DNA of the cell. DNA (Deoxyribonucleic Acid) contains all the information for cells to live, perform their functions and reproduce. Inside the nucleus is another organelle called the nucleolus. Mitochondrion-This is the cell’s powerhouse. This organelle packages the energy from the food you eat into ATP molecules. Every type of cell has a different amount of mitochondria (plural). There are more mitochondria in cells that have to perform lots of work, for example-your leg muscle cells, heart muscle cells etc.
Cell Organelle Information-You will need to know both the structure and function of the organelles in a cell. Make sure you know the difference in organelles found in plant and animal cells. Nucleus Back to the Top Function The nucleus is the control center of a cell as such it is the most important part of the cell. The control arises from the genetic information stored in the nucleus. Genes are made of the nucleic acid DNA
All eukaryotic cells have within them a variety of different structures called organelles. Organelles are small and function much like organs function in a large organism. Some organelles are responsible for gathering cell energy, others for controlling cell activities. The Cytoplasm is the gel-like substance that fills the cell outside the nucleus. All of the cell's organelles are held and located within the cytoplasm. There are many different chemicals, nucleic acids, and other substances that the cell needs can be found there also. It supports the cell and gives it shape
Individual organelles are usually separately enclosed within their own lipid bilayers. The name organelle comes from the idea that these structures are to cells what an organ is to the body (hence the name organelle, the suffix-elle being a diminutive).
Eukaryotic Organelles. 1  Nucleus-a membrane bound structure that contains the cell's hereditary (DNA) information and controls the cell's growth and reproduction. 2  It is commonly the most prominent organelle in the cell. Examples of organelles found in plant cells and animal cells include: Prokaryotic cells have a structure that is less complex than eukaryotic cells. They do not have a nucleus or region where the DNA is bound by a membrane. Prokaryotic DNA is coiled up in a region of the cytoplasm called the nucleoid.
The nucleus is one of the most important organelles in a cell. It is often the largest organelle in animal cells, but this is not always the case. Nuclei contain the genetic material called DNA that is responsible for controlling and directing all cell activities. The Cytoplasm is the gel-like substance that fills the cell outside the nucleus. All of the cell's organelles are held and located within the cytoplasm. There are many different chemicals, nucleic acids, and other substances that the cell needs can be found there also. It supports the cell and gives it shape
In cell biology, an organelle /ɔrɡəˈnɛl/ is a specialized subunit within a cell that has a specific function. The name organelle comes from the idea that these structures are to cells what an organ is to the body (hence the name organelle, the suffix-elle being a diminutive).