The Moon. The moon is a symbol of fertility, prosperity and peace, it also indicates nurturing of our dreams, and passion. The full moon symbolises family reunion and an auspicious token of abundance, harmony, and luck. The harvest festival also encompasses the fruits of labour by the farmers. The festival is held on the 15th day of the eighth month in the Chinese Han calendar and Vietnamese calendar (within 15 days of the autumnal equinox), on the night of the full moon between early September to early October of the Gregorian calendar. There are many elements that symbolise the Chinese Moon festival.
The moon cake is undoubtedly a key element in the Chinese culture. Even today, while eating moon cakes on Mid-autumn Festival, overseas Chinese miss their relatives and beloved ones in China even more, eagerly hoping to reunite with them. The Dragon Masters of Beer. The moon cake, also called walnut cake, palace cake, small cake, moon pastry and reunion cake etc, is a special pastry eaten on traditional Chinese Mid-autumn Festival. The annual festival custom of a whole family getting together, eating moon cakes and enjoying the moon dates back thousands of years
Discover the various aspects of Chinese culture that revolve around Chinese moon symbols. As beautiful as the full moon looks it comes into its full form only for a short night and spends the rest of the days in its waxing and waning phases. The Chinese would even compare the eyebrows of women with the image of the moon. There are many other aspects associated with the Chinese moon symbols according to Chinese tradition. The west in general as well as the autumn season were both considered to be female.
Full Moon. The full Moon shares the symbolism of the circle as an image of wholeness and strength. The Chinese associate it with the essence of Yin and the feminine; to Buddhists it represents spiritual power. The Harvest Moon (a full Moon near the September equinox) symbolizes agricultural fertility. The word lunatic comes from the Latin for moon, luna, and originally meant Moonstruck.
Traditionally the Chinese have always associated the moon with the female principle which is referred to as Yin. In fact there is a very famous legend regarding the moon symbol which floats in ancient Chinese tradition. It is a story about the moon deity Chang-E who was believed to be a woman arising from the west. She had a moon palace that was called Guang-Han and actually meant wild coldness. The Chinese would even compare the eyebrows of women with the image of the moon. There are many other aspects associated with the Chinese moon symbols according to Chinese tradition. The west in general as well as the autumn season were both considered to be female.
Chinese Mooncakes — Flavors, Recipes, Symbols. Mooncakes are traditional Chinese pastries generally eaten during the Mid-Autumn Festival, the second most important festival in China. The festival typically involves families getting together to share mooncakes while watching the moon.
5 Important Symbols of the Chinese Moon Festival. The mid-autumn festival also known as Chinese Moon Festival is celebrated as a harvest festival by the Chinese and Vietnamese people. The festival is held on the 15th day of the eighth month in the Chinese Han calendar and Vietnamese calendar (within 15 days of the autumnal equinox), on the night of the full moon between early September to early October of the Gregorian calendar. There are many elements that symbolise the Chinese Moon festival.
The Chinese Moon Festival, or also known as the Mid-Autumn Festival, which takes place on the 15th day of the 8th month on the Chinese Lunar Calendar. This famous festival dates back to the Tang Dynasty of 618 A.D.. The Moon Festival celebrates the moon at it's biggest and brightest stage. Report Abuse. The Chinese Moon Festival is on the 15th of the 8th lunar month. It's also known as the Mid-autumn Festival. Chinese culture is deeply imbedded in traditional festivals. Just like Christmas and Thanksgiving in the West, the Moon Festival is one of the most important traditional events for the Chinese.
In Chinese culture, roundness symbolizes completeness and togetherness. A full moon symbolizes prosperity and reunion for the whole family. Round mooncakes complement the harvest moon in the night sky at the Mid-Autumn Festival. Mooncakes are traditional Chinese pastries generally eaten during the Mid-Autumn Festival, the second most important festival in China. The festival typically involves families getting together to share mooncakes while watching the moon.