Himeji (姫路市, Himeji-shi) is a city located in Hyōgo Prefecture in the Kansai region of Japan. As of April 1, 2011, the city has an estimated population of 535,945, with 206,409 households and a population density of 1,002.83 persons per km². The total area is 534.43 km 2 (206.34 sq mi). He expanded the Himeji Castle and its castle town. Himeji was the capital of Himeji Prefecture (later Shikama Prefecture) since 1871, but the prefecture was merged into Hyōgo Prefecture in 1876. The city of Himeji was established on April 1, 1889.
Shinki Bus and Keio Bus operate night buses between Himeji (Himeji Station) and Tokyo (Shibuya Mark City, Shinjuku Keio Highway Bus Terminal). The one way fare is around 9000 yen, while a round trip ticket costs 17,400 yen. Travel time is about 9 hours. By local trains. By local trains, the one way trip from Tokyo to Himeji takes about ten hours and typically involves about four transfers of trains. The regular fare is a relatively expensive 9830 yen, however, with a Seishun 18 Kippu you can do the trip for as little as 2370 yen.
How to travel between Himeji and Tokyo. By shinkansen. Tokyo and Himeji are connected with each other by the JR Tokaido/Sanyo Shinkansen. Nozomi trains require about three hours to reach Himeji Station from Tokyo, while direct Hikari trains require roughly 3.5 hours. By local trains. By local trains, the one way trip from Tokyo to Himeji takes about ten hours and typically involves about four transfers of trains. The regular fare is a relatively expensive 9830 yen, however, with a Seishun 18 Kippu you can do the trip for as little as 2370 yen.
With half a million inhabitants, Himeji is the second largest city of Hyogo Prefecture after Kobe. It can be reached in less than one hour from Osaka or Kyoto and is also a popular stopover on journeys along the Sanyo Shinkansen. 
It is 3 hours from Tokyo, 1 hour and 30 minutes from Nagoya, 30 minutes from Shin Osaka, and 1 hour from Hiroshima in JR Shinkansen so it is very convenient to get here from major cities in Japan. The world heritage, Himeji Castle, can be seen from JR Himeji Station. 
By plane [edit]. Himeji does not have its own airport. The nearest international airport is Kansai International Airport; buses run eight times a day to Himeji station (about 2 1/4 hours, ¥3200 for a one way ticket). The nearest domestic airports are in Kobe and Osaka. By train from Kobe Airport, take the Port Liner to Sannomiya and connect to the shin-kaisoku train service to Himeji (about one hour with good connection, ¥1270), or take a bus straight to Himeji station (1 1/4 hours, ¥1300, six per day)
Himeji Castle is the largest and most visited castle in Japan, and it was registered in 1993 as one of the first UNESCO World Heritage Sites in the country. Himeji Castle is associated with a number of local lore. The well-known kaidan (or Japanese ghost story) of Banchō Sarayashiki (番町皿屋敷, The Dish Mansion at Banchō) is set in Edo (Tokyo), but a variant called Banshū Sarayashiki (播州皿屋敷, The Dish mansion in Harima Province) is set in Himeji Castle.
Himeji Castle is located Himeji in Hyogo Prefecture, Kansai Japan. In 1992 Himeji Castle was recognised by UNESCO as a building of world significance and was added to the World Heritage list. 
Himeji Castle (姫路城, Himeji-jō) is a hilltop Japanese castle complex located in Himeji, in Hyōgo Prefecture, Japan. Himeji Castle is associated with a number of local lore. The well-known kaidan (or Japanese ghost story) of Banchō Sarayashiki (番町皿屋敷, The Dish Mansion at Banchō) is set in Edo (Tokyo), but a variant called Banshū Sarayashiki (播州皿屋敷, The Dish mansion in Harima Province) is set in Himeji Castle.