What is the incubation period for meningitis? The incubation period for bacterial meningitis, the most serious types of meningitis, is about three to five days after initial contact with the microbe. However, in some individuals, bacterial meningitis symptoms can occur as rapidly as 24 hours. For viral meningitis, the incubation period can range widely from only a few days to a few weeks. Patients who get meningitis usually have symptoms of headache, fever, and a stiff neck
Meningitis is infection and inflamation of the meninges (the membranes that cover the brain and the spinal cord). Meningitis can be caused by bacteria, viruses, fungi and parasites. 1 Viral meningitis-The most common but less serious form of meningitis. 2  Enteroviruses are the most common viral cause of meningitis in the US. 3  Coxsackie, herpes virus, arbovirus, measles and varicella are other common meningitis causing viruses.
Viral meningitis. Meningitis is an inflammation of the lining around the brain and spinal cord. Viruses probably account for most cases of meningitis and are an important cause of admission to hospital[1]. Symptoms of viral meningitis include headache, dislike of bright lights, neck stiffness, fever and nausea/vomiting. 
@alisha-- The incubation period for viral and bacterial meningitis is similar. It's usually about ten days for both but it can range anywhere from two days to two weeks depending on the cause of the meningitis and the individual. There is also fungal meningitis, but fungal meningitis is different. Top 10 facts about the world. The meningitis incubation period depends on the causative organism behind the meningitis, but usually ranges between two and 14 days. During the incubation period, the patient is typically not contagious. The classic trio of symptoms indicative of meningitis are headache, stiff neck, and a high fever
Bacterial Meningitis Incubation Period. Bacterial meningitis is a life-threatening disease that comes on quickly. Having knowledge about its causes, symptoms, incubation period and treatment methods will be helpful to you. Advertisement. The human brain and the spinal cord are covered with protective membranes known as meninges. The inflammation of these meninges by bacteria or virus is known as meningitis. Depending on the cause, meningitis is divided into two types: bacterial meningitis and viral meningitis. An Overview on Bacterial Meningitis
Incubation Period. The incubation period depends on the causative agent. For example the incubation period of meningococcal meningitis is 2-10 days while the incubation for hemophilus meningitis is much shorter ranging from 2-4 days. However the range of incubation for most organisms causing meningitis is 2 days to 2 weeks. 1 Viral meningitis-The most common but less serious form of meningitis. 2  Enteroviruses are the most common viral cause of meningitis in the US. 3  Coxsackie, herpes virus, arbovirus, measles and varicella are other common meningitis causing viruses.
Viral meningitis is the most common type of meningitis. It is often less severe than bacterial meningitis, and most people usually get better on their own (without treatment). However, infants younger than 1 month old and people with weakened immune systems are more likely to have severe illness. Most people with viral meningitis usually get better on their own within 7 to 10 days. Initial symptoms of viral meningitis are similar to those for bacterial meningitis. However, bacterial meningitis is usually severe and can cause serious complications, such as brain damage, hearing loss, or learning disabilities.
The incubation period for meningitis can vary between 2 to 14 days. Children under the age of five face a high risk of contracting meningitis-related infections. The spinal cord is normally enclosed within membranes called meninges, which protect and cushion long nerves. Top 10 facts about the world. The meningitis incubation period depends on the causative organism behind the meningitis, but usually ranges between two and 14 days. During the incubation period, the patient is typically not contagious. The classic trio of symptoms indicative of meningitis are headache, stiff neck, and a high fever