Due to Tenerife being a part of Spain, the currency is the Euro. 1 The Pegged Exchange Rate and Modern Money Markets A pegged exchange rate is used when a government fixes the exchange rate of its currency for other currencies, and is also called a fixed exchange rate.
Santa Cruz The capital of Tenerife is Santa Cruz de Tenerife which is also, together with Las Palmas on Gran Canaria, the capital of the Canary Islands, which are a territor … y of Spain. Tenerife is the largest of the Canary islands, which are a comunidad autonoma (autónoma autonomous) community Of. Spain therefore the nationality of a person From tenerife Is, … spanish even though many locals on the islands consider themselves and see their nationality As. canarian 3 people found this. useful
And for what it's worth, the term isn't London currency; London is the capital of the UK. All of Great … Britain uses British pounds (GBP). 1 person found this useful. 1  A Quick Guide to Collecting German Money Collecting the currency of a country can be a great way to familiarize yourself with its history. 1 The Pegged Exchange Rate and Modern Money Markets A pegged exchange rate is used when a government fixes the exchange rate of its currency for other currencies, and is also called a fixed exchange rate.
The Coins: From the 1st of January 2002 the Euro was accepted as the only official coin in Spain (with the symbol €) which equals 100 cents. There are coins and notes of different values. The coins are 1 cent, 2 cents, 5 cents, 10 cents, 20 cents, 50 cents, 1 Euro and 2 Euros. Other means of payment: It’s also possible to pay in the Canary Islands with Credit or Debit Card. This is a common, practical way of paying. It will allow you to avoid carrying money and it’s a very safe
The island's population is 852,945 (2006 census).   Additional information   If the name Tenerife has a familiar ring, it may be because it is the site of the largest plane crash in aviation history as regards loss of life (not counting fatalities on the ground). 1 The Pegged Exchange Rate and Modern Money Markets A pegged exchange rate is used when a government fixes the exchange rate of its currency for other currencies, and is also called a fixed exchange rate.
However, Spain and, consequently, Tenerife officially adopted the euro on January 1st, 2002. I was still living there at the time and, of course, it gave all the businesses the chance to put their prices up, in much the same way as happened in the UK in 1971, when decimal currency was introduced. MONEY IN TENERIFE: Opening a Bank AccountResidents and non-residents alike can open a bank account in Tenerife.For residents, it's simplicity itself. You go along to the bank and show them your NIE. They'll take it from there.
Money Cash. The denominations for the Euro bank notes are 500, 200, 100, 50, 20, 10, 5 euros. Coins are 2 and 1 euros. Smaller coins are 50, 20, 10, 5, 2 and 1 centimes. There are 100 centimes in 1 euro. Bank notes are designed to help any body with visual impairment, with large numbers, different sizes and touch differences. 
Language: The language spoken in Tenerife is Spanish. Currency: The currency used in Tenerife is Euro (€). Local time: Tenerife is 1 hour ahead of GMT/UK time. Fly to: Tenerife has two airports. Tenerife South, near the island’s most popular resorts, is larger and busier than Tenerife North, which is about 11km west of the capital. Tenerife is the largest and most developed Canary Island. Attractive beaches, watersports and exciting adventures to Loro Parque, Siam Park and the cliffs of Los Gigantes make holidays to Tenerife popular year after year, offering activities for everyone to enjoy.