DEFINITION of 'Fintech'. Fintech is a portmanteau of financial technology that describes an emerging financial services sector in the 21st century. Originally, the term applied to technology applied to the back-end of established consumer and trade financial institutions. Since the end of the first decade of the 21st century, the term has expanded to include any technological innovation in the financial sector, including innovations in financial literacy and education, retail banking, investment and even crypto-currencies like bitcoin.
As a result of this long-held definition, many individuals have viewed the FinTech industry as “niche”, with a small client base that is notoriously difficult to sell into. According to Celent, the total 2012 spend by financial institutions on Information Technology was $54.7BN. For a long time, this definition of FinTech has meant serving the back and middle office of these institutions and trying to make their transactions faster and cheaper, while the front office remained relatively human-driven and relationship oriented.
Financial technology, also known as FinTech, is a line of business based on using software to provide financial services. Financial technology companies are generally startups founded with the purpose of disrupting incumbent financial systems and corporations that rely less on software. Global investment in financial technology more than tripled to $4 billion in 2013 from $930 million in 2008. The nascent financial technology industry has seen rapid growth over the last few years, according to the office of the Mayor of London. Forty percent of London's workforce is employed in financial and technology services. Some of the better-known FinTech companies in London include FundingCircle, Nutmeg and TransferWise.
As a definition, Fintech is usually applied to the segment of the technology startup scene that is disrupting sectors such as mobile payments, money transfers, loans, fundraising and even asset management. Jens Muench münch discusses how despite seeing global investment in fintech rise to$ 12 billion in, 2015 most people are still unsure about what it actually. is
In the United States, there are a numerous FinTech startups, including several of the best-known companies, such as Betterment, Lending Club, Prosper, SoFi, Square, and Stripe (along with others, such as LOYAL3, MaxMyInterest, Robinhood and Wealthfront). Forty percent of London's workforce is employed in financial and technology services. Some of the better-known FinTech companies in London include FundingCircle, Nutmeg and TransferWise.
BREAKING DOWN 'Fintech'. The term financial technology can apply to any innovation in how people transact business, from the invention of money to double-entry bookkeeping. Since the end of the first decade of the 21st century, the term has expanded to include any technological innovation in the financial sector, including innovations in financial literacy and education, retail banking, investment and even crypto-currencies like bitcoin.
Jens Muench münch discusses how despite seeing global investment in fintech rise to$ 12 billion in, 2015 most people are still unsure about what it actually. ‘Is’ fintech is a phrase increasingly banded about in the media and in technology. circles Jens Muench münch discusses how despite seeing global investment in fintech rise to$ 12 billion in, 2015 most people are still unsure about what it actually. is
‘Fintech’ is a phrase increasingly banded about in the media and in technology circles. Yet despite being in vogue, it’s a term many – including tech savvy and clued up entrepreneurs – don’t quite have a handle on. Indeed, it’s a fresh enough term to not yet feature in the online version of the Oxford dictionary. Jens Muench münch discusses how despite seeing global investment in fintech rise to$ 12 billion in, 2015 most people are still unsure about what it actually. is
It is time for a new definition of FinTech: technology that serves the clients of financial institutions, covering not only the back and middle offices but also the coveted front office that for so long has been human-driven. The Pie Chart below shows the breakdown of US GDP by industry sector for 2012. Notice the size of Financial Services slice: $1.24 Trillion, and it’s closely related cousin Real Estate: $1.93 Trillion. That’s the new market size for FinTech—and it’s one that is definitely worth the effort. Reprinted by permission.
As a result of this long-held definition, many individuals have viewed the FinTech industry as “niche”, with a small client base that is notoriously difficult to sell in to. According to Celent, the total 2012 spend by financial institutions on Information Technology was $54.7BN. The Pie Chart below shows the breakdown of US GDP by industry sector for 2012. Notice the size of Financial Services slice: $1.24 Trillion, and it’s closely related cousin Real Estate: $1.93 Trillion. That’s the new market size for FinTech—and it’s one that is definitely worth the effort. Reprinted by permission.