This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Retail Store Manager Assistant that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Retail Store Manager Assistant are expected to make less than the median. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Retail Store Manager Assistant in the United States that make less than that annual salary.
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Retail Store Manager Assistant in the United States is $40,243, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Retail Store Manager Assistant in the United States are expected to make less than $40,243. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Retail Store Manager Assistant in the United States that make less than that annual salary.
Retail Store Manager Assistant Job Description The following is a full job description for Retail Store Manager Assistant. Here are the requirements and responsibilities for Retail Store Manager Assistant along with statistics.
Retail Store Manager Assistant. Assists the store manager with the day-to-day operations of a retail store. Implements strategies to improve customer service, drive store sales, and increase profitability. Ensures customer needs are met, complaints are resolved, and service is quick and efficie
A Retail Store Assistant Manager earns an average wage of $12.18 per hour. The highest paying skills associated with this job are Operations Management and Hiring. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this field. $27,344 - $55,116. Specifically, experience within the store itself, customer service, and/or retail can be beneficial. A retail store assistant manager is a job which can be entirely different, depending on the organization.
(United Kingdom). A Retail Store Assistant Manager earns an average salary of £17,582 per year. Pay for this job does not change much by experience, with the most experienced earning only a bit more than the least. A skill in Operations Management is associated with high pay for this job. Most people move on to other jobs if they have more than 20 years' experience in this career. X Total Pay combines base annual salary or hourly wage, bonuses, profit sharing, tips, commissions, overtime pay and other forms of cash earnings, as applicable for this job. It does not include equity (stock) compensation, cash value of retirement benefits, or the value of other non-cash benefits (e.g. healthcare).
Salary results for Deputy Manager. Here you can see the average salary for the job you entered, based on our most recent job adverts. Our salary calculator also lets you view the highest and lowest salaries recently offered for that job, and how your current salary compares. 
A retail store assistant manager will generally work in an indoor environment with retail associates, other assistant managers, and their supervisors. This person will typically work “on the floor” of the retail environment, rather than in an office. Specifically, experience within the store itself, customer service, and/or retail can be beneficial. A retail store assistant manager is a job which can be entirely different, depending on the organization.
A retail store assistant manager is the person who acts under the supervision of the general manager in order to ensure that a retail store will run smoothly and efficiently on a daily basis. Specifically, experience within the store itself, customer service, and/or retail can be beneficial. A retail store assistant manager is a job which can be entirely different, depending on the organization.