One In The Chamber. Edit Page Last Edit: 2 years 10 months ago. One In The Chamber is a Free For All Party Playlist. Ever player has an instant kill KAP-40 with one bullet and three lives. After killing another player with the one bullet or a melee attack, one bullet will be added to the pistol. The player with the most points at the end of the 10 minute time limit wins.
Call of Duty: Black Ops Edit. One in the Chamber consists of six players competing in a Free-for-All style game with a twist: each player starts off with only an insta-kill M1911, a single round of ammunition, a knife, and three lives.
Alright Welcome to OITC!!!! This plugin is quite like the famous call of duty gamemode called One in the Chamber, Basically the aim of the game is to have a free for all and kill eachother, the first one to reach the stated kills wins the game (Default to 25 kills).
1 The maximum amount of bullets a player can have in their pistol is seven, which is the same as the M1911 's magazine capacity in multiplayer. 2  In Call of Duty: Black Ops, the player can play a fake One in the Chamber in Private Match by finding it in Theater Mode. 3  The KAP-40 is semi-automatic in this game mode.
— Call of Duty ELITE description. One in the Chamber is a Wager Match game mode featured in Call of Duty: Black Ops, part of FFA Gunplay in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3, an optional game mode in Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3: Defiance, and as a party game mode in Call of Duty: Black Ops II.
One in the Chamber, for the first time in the Call of Duty DS titles, is added as an optional match mode. Similar to Call of Duty: Black Ops and Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 3, up to six players compete in a Free-for-All game. Each player is equipped with a Desert Eagle with only one bullet and their combat knife.
One bullet in the chamber of a Desert Eagle, a knife, three lives, and instant kills. Players receive a bullet after each kill. When it's down to the last two men a UAV will appear. If you lose all your lives you can spectate the survivors. The person with the most points at the end of the 10 Minute Time Limit wins.