The specific type of RNA that carries the information stored in DNA to other areas of the cell is called messenger RNA, or mRNA. Transcription begins when an enzyme called RNA polymerase attaches to the DNA template strand and begins assembling a new chain of nucleotides to produce a complementary RNA strand.
The resulting mRNA is a single-stranded copy of the gene, which next must be translated into a protein molecule. During translation, which is the second major step in gene expression, the mRNA is read according to the genetic code, which relates the DNA sequence to the amino acid sequence in proteins (Figure 2).
1 mRNA-messenger RNA is a copy of a gene. 2  It acts as a photocopy of a gene by having a sequence complementary to one strand of the DNA and identical to the other strand. 3  The mRNA acts as a busboy to carry the information stored in the DNA in the nucleus to the cytoplasm where the ribosomes can make it into protein.
During this step, RNA polymerase and its associated transcription factors bind to the DNA strand at a specific area that facilitates transcription (Figure 1). This area, known as a promoter region, often includes a specialized nucleotide sequence, TATAAA, which is also called the TATA box (not shown in Figure 1).
In the simplest sense, expressing a gene means manufacturing its corresponding protein, and this multilayered process has two major steps. In the first step, the information in DNA is transferred to a messenger RNA (mRNA) molecule by way of a process called transcription.
The process of copying a sequence of bases in DNA into a complementary sequence in mRNA is called Transcription. It occurs in the nucleus and is the first step in Protein Synthesis. + + + + + + + + + + A DNA sequence is shown below. The sequence is a small part of a gene that codes for a protein.
During transcription, the enzyme RNA polymerase (green) uses DNA as a template to produce a pre-mRNA transcript (pink). The pre-mRNA is processed to form a mature mRNA molecule that can be translated to build the protein molecule (polypeptide) encoded by the original gene.
The code is actually the sequence of bases in DNA. For example ATAGCGA... is a code for part of a protein. The entire protein would actually require a much longer sequence of DNA bases. Whenever a protein needs to be made, the correct DNA sequence for that protein is copied to a molecule called messenger RNA (mRNA).
Transcription is the process by which DNA is copied (transcribed) to mRNA, which carries the information needed for protein synthesis. Transcription takes place in two broad steps. First, pre-messenger RNA is formed, with the involvement of RNA polymerase enzymes.