Like the Senate, the House of Representatives meets in the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C. At one end of the chamber of the House is a rostrum from which the Speaker, Speaker Pro Tempore, or (when in the Committee of the Whole) the Chair presides.
The House of Representatives is one of the two houses of the United States Congress (a bicameral legislature). It is frequently referred to as The House. The other house is the Senate. The composition and powers of the House are established in Article One of the United States Constitution.ike the Senate, the House of Representatives meets in the United States Capitol in Washington, D.C. At one end of the chamber of the House is a rostrum from which the Speaker, Speaker Pro Tempore, or (when in the Committee of the Whole) the Chair presides.
Each senator has an office in Washington, D.C., and offices in his or her home state. Senator Corker has an office in the Dirksen Senate Office Building in Washington and six offices in Tennessee: in Chattanooga, Jackson, Knoxville, Memphis, Nashville, and the Tri-Cities.nited States senators are elected by the people who live in their state. Usually, there are at least two people, or “candidates,” who are competing against each other to have the job of senator. The candidate who gets the most votes becomes the senator.
There are 100 members in the Senate. Each state elects two senators no matter the size or population of the state. In the House of Representatives there are 435 members. States are divided into districts based on their population. For every 693,000 people, a state will have one district. Tennessee has nine districts, and therefore nine members of the House of Representatives.nited States senators are elected by the people who live in their state. Usually, there are at least two people, or “candidates,” who are competing against each other to have the job of senator. The candidate who gets the most votes becomes the senator.
The Washington State Senate is the upper house of the Washington State Legislature. The body consists of 49 members, each representing a district with a population of nearly 140,000. The State Senate meets at the Legislative Building in Olympia. As with the lower House of Representatives, state senators serve without term limits, though senators serve four-year terms. Senators are elected from the same legislative districts as House members, with each district electing two representatives but only one senator. Like other upper houses of state and territorial legislatures and the federal U.S. Senate, the state senate can confirm or reject gubernatorial appointments to the state cabinet, commissions and boards.
Washington is a U.S. state with two senators in the United States Senate and 10 representatives in the United States House of Representatives. The United States is divided into 435 congressional districts — 10 in Washington — each with a population of about 710,000 individuals. Each district elects a representative to the House for a two-year term. Representatives are also called congressmen/congresswomen.
The United States Senate is a legislative chamber in the bicameral legislature of the United States, and together with the U.S. House of Representatives makes up the U.S. Congress. First convened in 1789, the composition and powers of the Senate are established in Article One of the U.S. Constitution. Each state is represented by two senators, regardless of population, who serve staggered six-year terms. The Senate chamber is located in the north wing of the Capitol, in Washington, D.C. The House of Representatives convenes in the south wing of the same building.rticle I, Section 3 of the Constitution sets three qualifications for senators: 1) they must be at least 30 years old, 2) they must have been citizens of the United States for at least the past 9 years, and 3) they must be inhabitants of the states they seek to represent at the time of their election.
You live in a legislative district and are represented in the Legislature by one state senator and two state representatives. Senators are elected to four-year terms and representatives are elected to two-year terms. Find your legislative district on the Washington State Legislature website.
United States senators are elected by the people who live in their state. Usually, there are at least two people, or “candidates,” who are competing against each other to have the job of senator. The candidate who gets the most votes becomes the senator.