A stroke is caused by a disturbance of the blood supply to the brain. The blood vessels that normally supply blood to the brain can be compromised by becoming blocked or bleeding.Both scalp and body acupuncture are techniques that can be used to aid recovery from a stroke. Nerve Paralysis. Chinese research workers claim that acupuncture can be used to treat the symptoms of spina bifida, such as incontinence, although no claim has been made that acupuncture can affect the anatomical abnormality.
Once a clear diagnosis has been made acupuncture can usually be used to relieve this type of pain. Many of these 'acute pains' represent a self-limiting disease process; for instance a small burn is usually excruciatingly painful for a few days and then settles. Nerve Paralysis. Chinese research workers claim that acupuncture can be used to treat the symptoms of spina bifida, such as incontinence, although no claim has been made that acupuncture can affect the anatomical abnormality.
Once a clear diagnosis has been made acupuncture can usually be used to relieve this type of pain. Many of these 'acute pains' represent a self-limiting disease process; for instance a small burn is usually excruciatingly painful for a few days and then settles. Some of this work is excellent but, for a variety of technical reasons, some is poor. Clinical trials have been completed on knee, hip, elbow, neck and lower back pain, and the information from these trials shows that significant pain relief can be achieved in about 70 per cent of those who receive acupuncture.
Acupuncture is one of the oldest, most commonly used medical procedures in the world. Research shows that acupuncture is beneficial in treating a variety of health conditions. The term acupuncture describes a family of procedures involving stimulation of anatomical points on the body by a variety of techniques. Nerve Paralysis. Chinese research workers claim that acupuncture can be used to treat the symptoms of spina bifida, such as incontinence, although no claim has been made that acupuncture can affect the anatomical abnormality.
Research work by Chinese physiologists has shown, quite clearly, that acupuncture can reduce the acidity of the stomach and this may be one of the mechanisms by which acupuncture heals stomach ulcers and other digestive diseases. Nerve Paralysis. Chinese research workers claim that acupuncture can be used to treat the symptoms of spina bifida, such as incontinence, although no claim has been made that acupuncture can affect the anatomical abnormality.
Acupuncture is a component of the health care system of China that can be traced back at least 2,500 years. The general theory of acupuncture is based on the premise that there are patterns of energy flow (Qi) through the body that are essential for health. Disruptions of this flow are believed to be responsible for disease.
Acupuncture is a 3,000-year-old healing technique of Traditional Chinese Medicine. In 1997, the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH) documented and publicized acupuncture’s safety and efficacy for treating a wide range of conditions. By stimulating the body’s various systems, acupuncture can help to resolve pain, and improve sleep, digestive function, and sense of well-being.
All of these patterns of visual impairment can be helped through Chinese medicine by correcting the imbalance through acupuncture and lifestyle changes. In order to have great results with this problem, it’s always good to recognize any vision problems early on before the problems fully develop. 
Acupuncture is a typical Chinese medicine treatment method which treats internal diseases through external methods. Clinically, the doctor will firstly examine the patients, ascertain the key of treatment, which channels are lesioned, whether the disease property is cold or hot, and make a diagnosis of the disease. Acupuncture is a way to unblock or influence chi and help it flow back into balance. Acupuncture is done by manipulating thin, solid needles that have been inserted into acupuncture points in the skin. Sometimes heat, pressure or mild electrical current is used along with needles to treat diseases.