The Sierra Madre mountains, which consist of several smaller ranges, run from northern Mesoamerica south through Costa Rica. The chain is historically volcanic. In central and southern Mexico, a portion of the Sierra Madre chain is known as the Eje Volcanico Volcánico, transversal or The-Trans mexican volcanic. belt There is extensive topographic variation in Mesoamerica, ranging from the high peaks circumscribing the Valley of Mexico and within the central Sierra Madre mountains to the low flatlands of the northern Yucatan Yucatán. peninsula
The term Mesoamerica – literally, middle America in Greek – is defined as the area that is home to the Mesoamerican civilization, which comprises a group of peoples with close cultural and historical ties. There is extensive topographic variation in Mesoamerica, ranging from the high peaks circumscribing the Valley of Mexico and within the central Sierra Madre mountains to the low flatlands of the northern Yucatan Yucatán. peninsula
Now to the question where Mesoamerica is situated and also what it is at all. The greek word Meso means Middle, which would make Mesoamerica Middle America. This is however already a used term, which sometimes refers to Central America. But Mesoamerica is different from Central America. Mesoamerica is not a geographically shaped region, but identifiable by cultural and historical factors. Also it stretches far out the Central American regions into northern Mexico. On this map, we can see that Mesoamerica is refering to a region up to the North of Mexico. In the South-West it also covers the nowadays states of Belize, Guatemala and El Salvador. Please remember, that it is a cultural region, defined by the spread of different indigenous tribes and cultures.
Mesoamerica is an area that stretches from southern Mexico through Guatemala, Belize, Honduras, and El Salvador. The region is exceptionally diverse geographically, biologically, and culturally, and gave rise to several of the New World’s most complex societies, including the Olmec, the Aztecs, and the Maya. 
Does it men land between two large bodies of water because they were... The Pacific and the Atlantic or Caribbean sea if you wanna call it that. Or does is it just a saying used to call the land central America Mesopotamia mean land between two rivers and mesa means table in spanish and in English a large flat area... Or does is it just a saying used to call the land central America Mesopotamia mean land between two rivers and mesa means table in spanish and in English a large flat area of land on a mountain or something. Add your answer.
Definition: From the Latin, meaning Middle America.. The term Mesoamerica refers to a geographical and cultural area which extends from central Mexico down through Central America, including Guatemala, Belize, Honduras and El Salvador. Many important ancient civilizations developed in this area, including the Olmecs, Zapotecs, Teotihuacanos, Mayas and Aztecs. The Classic period, from 200 to 900 A.D., saw the development of great urban centers, including Monte Alban in Oaxaca, Teotihuacan in central Mexico and the Mayan centers of Tikal, Palenque and Copan.
Or does is it just a saying used to call the land central America Mesopotamia mean land between two rivers and mesa means table in spanish and in English... Source(s): mesoamerica mean: https://tinyurl.im/Q8y3S. Or does is it just a saying used to call the land central America Mesopotamia mean land between two rivers and mesa means table in spanish and in English a large flat area of land on a mountain or something. Add your answer.
Mesoamerica is a region and cultural area in the Americas, extending approximately from central Mexico to Belize, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, and northern Costa Rica, within which pre-Columbian societies flourished before the Spanish colonization of the Americas in the 15th and 16th centuries. There is extensive topographic variation in Mesoamerica, ranging from the high peaks circumscribing the Valley of Mexico and within the central Sierra Madre mountains to the low flatlands of the northern Yucatan Yucatán. peninsula
Mesoamerica is one of only five regions of the world where writing was independently developed. In Central Mexico, the height of the Classic period saw the ascendancy of the city of Teotihuacan, which formed a military and commercial empire whose political influence stretched south into the Maya area and northward. There is extensive topographic variation in Mesoamerica, ranging from the high peaks circumscribing the Valley of Mexico and within the central Sierra Madre mountains to the low flatlands of the northern Yucatan Yucatán. peninsula