Arginine vasopressin (AVP), also known as vasopressin, argipressin or antidiuretic hormone (ADH), is a hormone found in most mammals, including humans. 
In Human Anatomy and Physiology. Arginine vasopressin (AVP), also known as vasopressin, argipressin or antidiuretic hormone (ADH), is a neurohypophysial hormone found in most mammals. 
Answers. Best Answer: Vasopressin: A relatively small (peptide) molecule that is released by the pituitary gland at the base of the brain after being made nearby (in the hypothalamus). Vasopressin has an antidiuretic action that prevents the production of dilute urine (and so is antidiuretic). Source(s): http://www.medterms.com/script/main/art....
Antidiuretic hormone, also called arginine vasopressin (AVP), is a hormone produced by the hypothalamus in the brain and stored in the posterior pituitary gland at the base of the brain. ADH helps regulate water balance in the body. 
Vasopressin, also known as arginine vasopressin (AVP), antidiuretic hormone (ADH), or argipressin, is a neurohypophysial hormone found in most mammals. Its two primary functions are to retain water in the body and to constrict blood vessels. Vasopressin is a peptide hormone that increases water permeability of the kidney's collecting duct and distal convoluted tubule by inducing translocation of aquaporin-CD water channels in the plasma membrane of collecting duct cells.
ANTIDIURETIC HORMONE. Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) or Arginine Vasopressin (AVP) is synthesized in the hypothalamus mostly by the supraoptic nuclei. It is then packaged into transport vesicles in the cell body and transported via fast vesicular transport through the axon of the neurons. 
5.6.1 ADH in the Hypothalamus & Posterior Pituitary. ADH is synthetised in the hypothalamus & is transported to the posterior pituitary. ADH is a nonapeptide produced in the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei and other areas of the hypothalamus. Its major role is in the regulation of water balance by its effect on the kidneys. ADH is also known as vasopressin because of the vasopressor response to pharmacological doses. Humans and most animals have arginine-vasopressin but pigs have the arginine replaced by a lysine. ADH is produced from a much larger precursor protein (prepropressophysin). 
Antidiuretic hormone, ADH or vasopressin. The antidiuretic hormone, ADH, also called vasopressin and arginine-vasopressin, is a nanopeptide (nine amino acids) synthesized in the hypothalamus, transported to and stored in the posterior lobe of the pituitary gland which releases it into the blood circulation. It has antidiuretic and vasopressor actions. 
Antidiuretic hormone, also known commonly as arginine vasopressin, is a nine amino acid peptide secreted from the posterior pituitary. Within hypothalamic neurons, the hormone is packaged in secretory vesicles with a carrier protein called neurophysin, and both are released upon hormone secretion. Osmolarity is sensed in the hypothalamus by neurons known as an osmoreceptors, and those neurons, in turn, stimulate secretion from the neurons that produce antidiuretic hormone.