For instance, life expectancy at age 60 represents the number of additional years a person aged 60 would expect to live, on average, given current age-specific mortality rates for ages 60 and over. Life expectancy can also be presented for particular ages after birth. For instance, life expectancy at age 60 represents the number of additional years a person aged 60 would expect to live, on average, given current age-specific mortality rates for ages 60 and over. 4. ASSESSMENT OF DATA 44.
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH Health Mortality Core indicator 1. INDICATOR (a) Name: Life Expectancy at Birth. (b) Brief Definition: The average number of years that a newborn could expect to live, if he or she were subject to the age-specific mortality rates of a given period. (c) Unit of Measurement: Years of life. (d) Placement in the CSD Indicator Set: Health/Mortality. 2. Life expectancy can also be presented for particular ages after birth. For instance, life expectancy at age 60 represents the number of additional years a person aged 60 would expect to live, on average, given current age-specific mortality rates for ages 60 and over. 4. ASSESSMENT OF DATA 44.
DEFINITION of 'Life Expectancy'. 1. The age until which a person is expected to live. 2. The remaining number of years an individual is expected to live, based on IRS issued life expectancy tables. The life expectancy, for required minimum distribution (RMD) calculation purposes, is determined by the current age of the individual. Next Up
life expectancy, n the probable number of years a person will live after a given age, as determined by the mortality rate in a specific geographic area. This number may be individually qualified by the person's condition, race, sex, age, and other demographic factors. More discussions about life expectancy. life expectancy, the probable number of years a person will live after a given age, as determined by mortality in a specific geographic area. It may be individually qualified by the person's condition or race, sex, age, or
Infant mortality rate (IMR) is the number of deaths of children less than one year of age per 1000 live births. The rate for a given region is the number of children dying under one year of age, divided by the number of live births during the year, multiplied by 1,000. Forms of infant mortality: Infant mortality is the death of a child less than one year of age. It is measured as infant mortality rate (IMR), which is the number of deaths of children under
life expectancy the number of years, based on statistical averages, that a given person of a specific age, class, or other demographic variable may be expected to continue living. life expectancy, the probable number of years a person will live after a given age, as determined by mortality in a specific geographic area. It may be individually qualified by the person's condition or race, sex, age, or other demographic factors.
Associated terms The probability of dying between the ages of 15 and 60 years (per 1 000 population) per year among a hypothetical cohort of 100 000 people that would experience the age-specific mortality rate of the reporting year. Life table (see Life expectancy at birth). – 1 – Life expectancy at birth Rationale for use Life expectancy at birth reflects the overall mortality level of a population. It summarizes the mortality pattern that prevails across all age groups-children and adolescents, adults and the elderly.
Mathematically, life expectancy is the mean number of years of life remaining at a given age, assuming constant mortality rates. It is denoted by, which means the average number of subsequent years of life for someone now aged, according to a particular mortality experience. Life expectancy is defined statistically as the average number of years remaining for an individual or a group of people at a given age.