How to Grill Shrimp. 1  To direct-grill shrimp, thread them onto skewers to make kabobs. 2  Over medium coals, grill extra-large shrimp (20 per pound) for 6 to 8 minutes or jumbo shrimp (12 to 15 per pound) for 10 to 12 minutes, or until opaque. 3  Check for a pink color on the outside. 1 Add the shrimp to the boiling water. 2  Cook for 1 to 3 minutes or until the shrimp are pink and opaque. 3  Drain and rinse shrimp in a colander under cold running water.
Peel and de-vein shrimp and place in a resealable plastic bag. Mix remaining ingredients together and pour mixture pour over shrimp. Seal bag and allow to marinate for 2-4 hours. Preheat grill for medium-high heat. Remove shrimp for bag and discard marinade. Place shrimp of grill and allow to cook for 2 to 3 minutes on each side or until pink all the way around. Remove from heat and serve. Depending on the style of your grill it might be easier to thread these jumbo shrimp onto skewers before grilling. 
1 To direct-grill shrimp, thread them onto skewers to make kabobs. 2  Over medium coals, grill extra-large shrimp (20 per pound) for 6 to 8 minutes or jumbo shrimp (12 to 15 per pound) for 10 to 12 minutes, or until opaque. 3  Check for a pink color on the outside. 1 Add the shrimp to the boiling water. 2  Cook for 1 to 3 minutes or until the shrimp are pink and opaque. 3  Drain and rinse shrimp in a colander under cold running water.
2. Grill your shrimp. Keep your shrimp on the grill for five to seven minutes. You will need to turn the shrimp over halfway through the cooking process so that both sides of the shrimp get cooked evenly. Remove the shrimp from the grill when it is done cooking. Place it on a fresh, clean plate. According to the Food and Drug Administration, placing cooked seafood on a platter that once held raw seafood can cause contamination of the food.
Add butter, margarine, olive oil, or flavored cooking oil. Carefully place shrimp in pan. Stir-fry large shrimp for 3 to 4 minutes; medium 2 1/2 to 3 1/2 minutes, and small/bay 2 to 2 1/2 minutes. Grill or broil. Marinate, if desired. Grill or broil shrimp by skewering peeled shrimp in a horseshoe fashion.
(Leave oven slightly open when using an electric range.). Grill or broil extra jumbo shrimp for 6 minutes, jumbo for 5 minutes, extra large for 4 minutes, and large for 3 minutes. Baste with oil or marinade. Turn once halfway during cooking process. Carefully place shrimp in pan. Stir-fry large shrimp for 3 to 4 minutes; medium 2 1/2 to 3 1/2 minutes, and small/bay 2 to 2 1/2 minutes. Grill or broil. Marinate, if desired. Grill or broil shrimp by skewering peeled shrimp in a horseshoe fashion.
When you cook up a batch of shrimp, keep the grill uncovered and use a medium heat (one layer of coals or a medium flame on a gas grill). As far as time is concerned, it should take between six and eight minutes for your shrimp to cook through. 
1 You can leave the tails on the shrimp. 2  Brush each skewer of shrimp with olive oil and sprinkle with salt, black pepper and cayenne pepper. 3  Use a medium heat and grill the shrimp for 6 minutes or until shrimp turn pink. 4  Remove from heat and squeeze fresh lemon over the tops. 1 Heat butter in a large skillet over medium heat for 45 seconds. 2  Add the shrimp and garlic and saute sauté until shrimp begin to turn. 3  Pink this takes about 5. 4  Minutes lower the heat and add the, parsley lemon, juice and.  salt
Stir-fry or saute sauté shrimp by preheating a pan over-medium high. Heat add, butter, margarine olive, oil or flavored cooking. Oil carefully place shrimp in. Pan-stir fry large shrimp for 3 to 4; minutes medium 2/1 2 to 3/1 2, minutes and/small bay 2 to 2/1 2. Minutes grill or. Broil, marinate if. desired Carefully place shrimp in pan. Stir-fry large shrimp for 3 to 4 minutes; medium 2 1/2 to 3 1/2 minutes, and small/bay 2 to 2 1/2 minutes. Grill or broil. Marinate, if desired. Grill or broil shrimp by skewering peeled shrimp in a horseshoe fashion.
Shrimp cooks really quickly—anywhere from 4 to 8 minutes, depending on the size—so pay close attention. During grilling, the shrimp liquids become milky in color and the flesh opaque, with the telltale sign of pink accents. Cook each side until it just turns opaque. 