Specific causes of lymphocytosis include: 1  Acute lymphocytic leukemia. 2  Chronic lymphocytic leukemia. 3  Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection. 4  HIV/AIDS. 5  Mononucleosis. 6  Multiple myeloma. 7  Other viral infections. 8  Tuberculosis. 9  Vasculitis. 10  Whooping cough. 
In general, lymphocytopenia (a low lymphocyte count) occurs because: 1  The body doesn't make enough lymphocytes. 2  The body makes enough lymphocytes, but they’re destroyed. 3  The lymphocytes get stuck in the spleen or lymph nodes. 
2. Get help from a doctor now ›. RBC: High neutrophils might indicate infection or effect of medication, low lymphocyte might indicate effect of medication or abnormality in lymphocytes, low rbc might indicate anemia or effect of medications.
Causes Of Neutropenia. Low neutrophils can occur in a person having a compromised immune level, some types of drugs also cause low neutrophils such as chemotherapy in cancer, some antidepressants, and antibiotics can also cause low neutrophilic count. Conditions which present with low neutrophilic count are. 1  Typhoid. 2  Mumps. 3  Influenz
Causes of Low Lymphocyte Count. There are a number of factors that can contribute to a low lymphocyte count. The causes can be classified into general causes, acquired causes, or inherited causes. 
There are three types of lymphocytes: B-lymphocytes, T-lymphocytes, and natural killer cells. All of these cells help protect the body from infection. Most people who have lymphocytopenia have low numbers of T-lymphocytes. Sometimes they also have low numbers of the other types of lymphocytes. 
Signs and symptoms of chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Many people with CLL do not have any symptoms when it is diagnosed. The leukemia is often found when their doctor orders blood tests for some unrelated health problem or during a routine checkup and they are found to have a high number of lymphocytes. Many of the signs and symptoms of advanced CLL occur because the leukemia cells replace the bone marrow's normal blood-making cells. As a result, people do not make enough red blood cells, properly functioning white blood cells, and blood platelets. 1  Anemia is a shortage of red blood cells.
Definition. Lymphocytosis (lim-foe-sie-TOE-sis), or a high lymphocyte count, is an increase in white blood cells called lymphocytes (LIM-foe-sites). Lymphocytes are an important part of the immune system. 
Low Lymphocytes. Low lymphocyte count or lymphocytopenia is a cause of worry as it may be an indication of an underlying disease or illness. Scroll down to know the details of this condition. Advertisement. Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cells that are responsible for protecting the body against disease-causing agents. Possible Causes of Low Lymphocyte Count. A low lymphocyte count indicates that the body's resistance to fight infection is substantially reduced, and one may become more susceptible to recurring infections.