Get the Latest health and medical information delivered direct to your inbox! The lungs are a pair of spongy, air-filled organs located on either side of the chest (thorax). The trachea (windpipe) conducts inhaled air into the lungs through its tubular branches, called bronchi. The bronchi then divide into smaller and smaller branches (bronchioles), finally becoming microscopic. Between the alveoli is a thin layer of cells called the interstitium, which contains blood vessels and cells that help support the alveoli. The lungs are covered by a thin tissue layer called the pleura. The same kind of thin tissue lines the inside of the chest cavity -- also called pleura.
your lungs are just inside your ribcage, from the chest in. there is your heart, stomach, spine, some arm muscles, and big arteries and veins between your lungs and your back … skin. there is just the ribcage and a couple big blood vessels between the lungs and the chest. 4 people found this useful. 
When you have pain in your lungs and back pain, or upper back pain from your lungs, it could be the earliest signs of some very serious problems such as lung cancer, or it may only be a coincidence. You may only have something as simple as mechanical back pain, and bronchitis. There are also many possible causes of lung or breathing pain, which are not associated with your back or spine. Among these would be a collapsed lung, or an infection of some type, such as pneumonia or an abscess. You may also have pleuritis or pleurisy, an inflammation of the pleura that covers the lungs.
© 2014 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. The lungs are a pair of spongy, air-filled organs located on either side of the chest (thorax). The trachea (windpipe) conducts inhaled air into the lungs through its tubular branches, called bronchi. The bronchi then divide into smaller and smaller branches (bronchioles), finally becoming microscopic. 
1. Get help from a doctor now ›. under ribs: The lungs in the front and back are inside the rib cage. This is why doctors will place a stethoscope on the back as well as the front to evaluate the function of the lungs. ...Read more. 1 Where are your kidneys located on your back in women. 2  Where are the lungs located in the back. 3  Where are lungs located in your body. 4  Ask a doctor a question free online. 5  Where are the lungs located in the human body.
completely unrelated to the lungs. There are many possible causes of upper back pain, but the most common cause is muscle strain. Ligament and tendon strains and sprains may also occur in the upper back. Mechanical back pain or disc herniation is possible. There are also many possible causes of lung or breathing pain, which are not associated with your back or spine. Among these would be a collapsed lung, or an infection of some type, such as pneumonia or an abscess. You may also have pleuritis or pleurisy, an inflammation of the pleura that covers
your lungs are located on the right and left side of your body just up from your waistline. They are inside your ribs from front to back, top to bottom. Your heart sits in the space between them. They have different lobes, so your pneumonia could be in a part of your lungs that reflects to your back causing the pain. Take your medicine and rest, get well soon.
In humans, the lungs are located on either side of the heart in the chest, with the left lung sharing the left side of the space with the heart, which sits in an impression called the cardiac notch. In this image, lung tissue has been dissected away to reveal the bronchioles. The lung is the essential respiratory organ in many air-breathing animals, including most tetrapods, a few fish and a few snails. In mammals and most other vertebrates, two lungs are located near the backbone on either side of the heart.
Your Lungs and Back Pain. When you are having pain in your lungs, and back pain, they may or may not be related. Learning the signs of lung cancer, the causes of lung disease, and understanding the causes of back pain will help you to find out if the pain in your lungs and the pain in your back are associated. There are also many possible causes of lung or breathing pain, which are not associated with your back or spine. Among these would be a collapsed lung, or an infection of some type, such as pneumonia or an abscess. You may also have pleuritis or pleurisy, an inflammation of the pleura that covers the lungs.
Your heart is located under your ribcage in the center of your chest between your right and left lungs. Its muscular walls beat, or contract, pumping blood to all parts of your body. The size of your heart can vary depending on your age, size, and the condition of your heart. Oxygen-rich blood from your lungs passes through the pulmonary veins (shown in red to the right of the left atrium in figure B above). The blood enters the left atrium and is pumped into the left ventricle. From the left ventricle, the oxygen-rich blood is pumped to the rest of your body through the aorta.