Princeton's WordNet (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: banded (adj). identified with a band especially around a leg. kept watch for the return of their banded birds. banded (adj). marked with bands or strips of contrasting color or texture. a banded rock. 
Two template styles are available in the Basic tab: regular and banded. Regular templates default to a single color background with a border. Banded templates include Boxed Text blocks that offer background color options. No matter what template you choose, you can add a Boxed Text block in the Drag and Drop Editor. To view Basic templates, navigate to the Template step of the Campaign Builder, and click Basic
Full Definition of BANDED. : having or marked with bands. See banded defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT. 
A banded bird is one that has been captured, had an identification band put on its leg, and then released. It's movements are then tracked. Birds that are imported from one country to another are banded at quarantine facilities. These bands are proof of quarantine and used to identify the birds while in quarantine. Bands can be open or closed. They can be made of metal or plastic. A closed band is a solid ring (like a wedding band).
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: band (Noun). A strip of material wrapped around things to hold them together. band (Noun). A strip along the spine of a book where the pages are attached. band (Noun). A group of musicians, especially (a) wind and percussion players, or (b) rock musicians. band (Noun). 
The adjective BANDED has 3 senses: 1. identified with a band especially around a leg. 2. marked with bands or strips of contrasting color or texture. 3. characterized by a band of especially white around the body. Familiarity information: BANDED used as an adjective is uncommon.
Basic templates provide you with blank layouts where you can add and style content to create a customized, mobile-friendly email, all using our Email Designer. Our Basic templates make full use of the Campaign Builder's Drag and Drop Editor, allowing you to fully customize the look and layout of your campaign. Regular templates default to a single color background with a border. Banded templates include Boxed Text blocks that offer background color options. No matter what template you choose, you can add a Boxed Text block in the Drag and Drop Editor.
band 1. n. 1. A thin strip of flexible material used to encircle and bind one object or to hold a number of objects together: a metal band around the bale of cotton. 2. A strip or stripe that contrasts with something else in color, texture, or material. 3. 
Confidence votes 17.9K. It can mean a musical group, such as the band Green Day. It also means a group of people getting together for some purpose, such as: The boys banded together to get the snow shoveled. It can also mean a strip of material or cloth, such as a waistband. 
Best Answer: Any bird, captive or wild with a metal ring band affixed around it's leg is banded. That refers to the band. Bands are put on wild birds to track their movements, and for other wildlife studies. Breeders of exotic birds use bands for many reasons.... 1. Birds that are imported from one country to another are banded at quarantine facilities. These bands are proof of quarantine and used to identify the birds while in quarantine. Bands can be open or closed. They can be made of metal or plastic. A closed band is a solid ring (like a wedding band).