Answer: There is no country called Basqueis what the people there are called basque comes from Vaskania a small place located between France and Spain, both France and Spain would like to claim this place but the people there would like to be their own country. Answer. As for where they came from, their origins are somewhat mysterious. The Basque language (Euskara) is an extremely complex language which has no close relatives anywhere else in the world (it is therefore not related at all to Spanish).
Basque People Arrive in the New World. Basque people come from a small region bordering the Bay of Biscay and straddling the Pyrenees Mountains in Spain and France. They speak a language unlike any of their European neighbors. In fact their language is unique in the world and thought to be at least 5000 years o
1 Caucasian origin, now rendered obsolete, based on linguistic evidence similar to that of the Basque-Iberism, as the Basque language and the Caucasian languages share some linguistic typologies absent in the Indo-European languages. The Basques have therefore long been supposed to be a remnant of a pre-Indo-European population of Europe. The main hypotheses about the origin of the Basques are:
The Basques are known as: 1  Euskaldunak in Basque (this ethnonym means the speakers of the Basque language ; to refer to all the inhabitants of the Basque Country, the name euskal herritarrak is preferred). 2  Vasco in Spanish. 3  Basque in French and English. In Basque, the people call themselves the euskaldunak, singular euskaldun, formed from euskal- (i.e. Basque (language)) and-dun (i.e. one who has); euskaldun literally means a Basque speaker. Not all Basques are Basque-speakers.
The origin of the Basques and the Basque language is a controversial topic that has given rise to numerous hypotheses. The Basques have therefore long been supposed to be a remnant of a pre-Indo-European population of Europe. The main hypotheses about the origin of the Basques are:
The ancient language of the Basque people, the Basque language, which developed from the Proto-Basque language, is the only Pre-Indo-European language that is extant in contemporary Western Europe. The Basques have therefore long been supposed to be a remnant of a pre-Indo-European population of Europe. The main hypotheses about the origin of the Basques are:
The English word Basque comes from the French Basque (pronounced /bask/), which is derived from Gascon Basco (pronounced /ˈbasku/), cognate with Spanish Vasco (pronounced /ˈbasko/). These, in turn, come from Latin Vasco (pronounced /wasko/), plural Vascones (see History section below). In Basque, the people call themselves the euskaldunak, singular euskaldun, formed from euskal- (i.e. Basque (language)) and-dun (i.e. one who has); euskaldun literally means a Basque speaker. Not all Basques are Basque-speakers.
The Basques have occupied much the same area of northern Spain and southern France for thousands of years, extending further eastward and northwards into Gascony and the Pyrenees, as attested by archaeological and toponymical evidence, and speak a language whose ties to other living languages are unclear at best. The key sources for the early history of the Basques are the classical writers, especially Strabo, who in the 1st century AD reported that the Vascones inhabited modern day Navarre, NW Aragon and lower La Rioja.