If you decide you are going to stop breastfeeding your child all of a sudden one day (cold turkey), you may be inviting trouble. Your breasts will continue to get filled with milk. Since the baby will not be emptying them, they may get engorged and/or get infected, and lead to severe discomfort, at the very least.
You should stop breastfeeding before the child begins to grow it's first tooth. It is unhealthy and can cause psychological damage to the child if breastfeeding is continued into the child's formative years.
How to Stop Breastfeeding. Weaning a child is not easy as the child may feel cranky. Weaning should be done gradually. This gradual reduction of feeds will also prevent engorged breasts thus reducing the discomfort to the mother.
The right time to stop is when you and your child want to. The AAP reccomends a minimum of one year, the WHO says a minimum of 2 years.
If you’re enjoying breastfeeding, you can continue for as long as you and your baby want to. That could mean until she's a year, or even two years, old. There's no need to stop before you’re both ready.
Breastfeeding experts recommend letting your baby or toddler decide when she wants to stop breastfeeding (baby-led weaning). But it's up to you to decide what's best for you and your baby. To your child, breastfeeding is more than just food.
Yes | No Thank you! The right time to stop is when you and your child want to. The AAP reccomends a minimum of one year, the WHO says a minimum of 2 years. Babies need whole milk until at least the age of 2, and breastmilk is whole milk, if you are still nursing then no other milk is needed. There are many benefits to nursing to 2 years and even longer! You can google extended breastfeeding or child-led weaning and get some info.
There are three different ways decide when to stop breastfeeding. You have to determine which way is right for you, your baby and your situation. For the American Academy of Pediatrics breastfeeding recommendations, click here. There are benefits to delaying weaning your child for both mom and baby. For a list of these benefit