If you’re removing the finish from a piece of furniture that you plan to paint, sanding is the only necessary step: Begin with 150-grit paper to rough up the surface and finish with 220-grit, being sure to remove any dust with tack cloth or a lightly dampened rag. 2.
In this article, we'll discuss how to remove the old finish from your wooden furniture as well as some short-cut techniques. Before you use paint and varnish remover on a piece of furniture, take a minute to test the finish with denatured alcohol and lacquer thinner.
If the finish comes off easily, you can remove the entire finish with the alcohol or thinner; paint and varnish remover isn't necessary. Work quickly -- alcohol and lacquer thinner evaporate fast. Clean small sections at a time, and change cloths frequently to keep the old finish from being reapplied to the furniture. When the finish is off, go over the entire piece with a scraper to remove any remaining traces of finish. A furniture scraper is best, or use steel wool dipped in thinner. Always scrape with the wood grain, and be careful not to dig into the wood. If necessary, sand the wood smooth. No neutralizing is
7. On an old furniture piece, clean the surface with a soft cloth dampened with commercial wood cleaner. 8. To remove an old finish, use a steel wool pad to scrub antique refinisher into the surface. 9. Wipe off the old, dissolved finish with a clean, soft cloth. 10.
1 How to remove ink stains from furniture made of leather. 2  Squirt a pea-sized amount of dish soap onto a toothbrush, and rub into the ink stain. 3  Since dish soap is a de-greaser, it will help to remove the ink. 4  Wipe clean and then apply a bit of rubbing alcohol to a cloth and apply.
1. Removing finish by sanding: Good for paint, acrylic, varnish, lacquer, shellac. Photo: portercable.com. Though labor-intensive, sandpaper is capable of removing nearly any wood finish. It can be used to refinish hardwood floors, or it can be used to remove varnish from much smaller surfaces—a tabletop, for example.