Meson Sabika is a Spanish tapas restaurant. Tapas are a wide variety of small plates, finger foods, and appetizers. Tapas are not a particular type of food, but rather a style of dining. The entire meal consists of these smaller dishes that are shared around the table, encouraging guests to order many of the different dishes. 
Jupiterimages/Comstock/Getty Images. Tapas bars are restaurants which serve tapas, a Spanish style of food. Often thought of as appetizers, tapas are different than appetizers; instead of preceding a meal, tapas are small portions of food served as an accompaniment to wine. 
Tapas 101. A “first course” for beginners, this is a brief description of some of the most common tapas that visitors can expect to find in any typical tapas bar in Andalucia. andalucía
This is a list of common tapas dishes. Tapas are a wide variety of appetizers, or snacks, in Spanish cuisine. They may be cold (such as mixed olives and cheese) or warm (such as chopitos, which are battered, fried baby squid). In select bars in Spain, tapas have evolved into an entire, and sometimes sophisticated, cuisine.
Tapas Valencia is a Spanish tapas restaurant. Tapas are as a wide variety of small plates, finger foods, and appetizers. Tapas are not a particular type of food, but rather a style of dining. The entire meal consists of these smaller dishes that are shared around the table, encouraging guests to order many of the different dishes
Tapas is simply a small snack or appetizer taken with a drink or two at lunchtime or in the early evening before the main meal. The Spanish generally won’t drink without eating something and originally these small snacks were given free to anyone who bought a drink. The Origins. The origins of tapas are the subject of many an argument in the local bar. (It seems to depend on which area of Spain you are from!) It is said that the first Tapas was simply a hunk of bread which was placed over the glass to keep the flies out.
Such is the diversity of tapas that in bars all over Spain and the world you can order virtually anything that takes your fancy. From an exotically-flavored, spicy Moorish dish to a simple bowl of olives, the choice is entirely yours. But oh, my friend, what a choice it is! The Origins. The origins of tapas are the subject of many an argument in the local bar. (It seems to depend on which area of Spain you are from!) It is said that the first Tapas was simply a hunk of bread which was placed over the glass to keep the flies out.
Tapas. Tapas are a wide variety of appetizers, or snacks, in Spanish cuisine. They may be cold (such as mixed olives and cheese) or hot (such as chopitos, which are Batter (cooking)|battered, frying|fried baby Squid (food)|squid). In Spain, patrons of tapas can order many different tapas and combine them to make a full meal. In some Central American countries, such snacks are known as bocas. The serving of tapas is designed to encourage conversation because people are not so focused upon eating an entire meal that is set before them.
Many Americans have a taste for Spanish food, so knowing what is a tapas restaurant is has become a neccesity. Tapas restaurants are known for serving small. often bite size, snacks that can be consumed hot or cold, and similar to appetizers. In Spain tapas restaurants are a part of Spanish culture. In the tapas restaurants of today the whole meal is a combination of bite sized snacks, intended to have less concentration on food and encourage conversation between patrons.. Every town in Spain has tapa bars or stalls, ready to serve food and good converse. There are a few theories on the development of the tapa ritual. Spain consisted of farmers that did hard work all day. In order to keep them energized small portions of snacks were eaten. It is said that tapas tradition originated by these rustics.
What Tapas is Not. 1  Tapas is not a particular type of food. 2  Tapas is not a starter. 3  Tapas is not a collection of small dishes brought out on a platter and eaten as a main course. Tapas in Spain Today. So, with all the myths about tapas out of the way, this is what tapas is today. A tapa is invariably a small dish of something edible. It may be a smaller version (normally a quarter version) of something else on the menu or it may be sold exclusively as tapas.