Acyclovir is used to treat the symptoms of chickenpox, shingles, herpes virus infections of the genitals (sex organs), the skin, the brain, and mucous membranes (lips and mouth), and widespread herpes virus infections in newborns. Acyclovir is also used to prevent recurrent genital herpes infections. Although acyclovir will not cure herpes, it does help relieve the pain and discomfort and helps the sores (if any) heal faster. Acyclovir may also be used for other virus infections as determined by your doctor. However, it does not work in treating certain virus infections, such as the common cold. Acyclovir is available only with your doctor's prescription
USES: Acyclovir is used to treat infections caused by certain types of viruses. It treats cold sores around the mouth (caused by herpes simplex), shingles (caused by herpes zoster), and chickenpox. This medication is also used to treat outbreaks of genital herpes. In people with frequent outbreaks, acyclovir is used to help reduce the number of future episodes. Acyclovir is an antiviral drug
Uses. Acyclovir is used to treat infections caused by certain types of viruses. It treats cold sores around the mouth (caused by herpes simplex), shingles (caused by herpes zoster), and chickenpox. This medication is also used to treat outbreaks of genital herpes. In people with frequent outbreaks, acyclovir is used to help reduce the number of future episodes.
INDICATIONS. Herpes Zoster Infections: ZOVIRAX (acyclovir) is indicated for the acute treatment of herpes zoster (shingles). Genital Herpes: ZOVIRAX (acyclovir) is indicated for the treatment of initial episodes and the management of recurrent episodes of genital herpes. Chickenpox: ZOVIRAX (acyclovir) is indicated for the tr eatment of chickenpox (varicella).
A. View Sources. Acyclovir is used to treat infections caused by certain types of viruses. It treats cold sores around the mouth (caused by herpes simplex), shingles (caused by herpes zoster), and chickenpox. This medication is also used to treat outbreaks of genital herpes. In people with frequent outbreaks, acyclovir is used to help reduce the number of future episodes. Acyclovir is an antiviral drug.
It treats cold sores around the mouth (caused by herpes simplex), shingles (caused by herpes zoster), and chickenpox .This medication is also used to treat outbreaks of genital herpes. In people with frequent outbreaks, acyclovir is used to help reduce the number of future episodes.Acyclovir is an antiviral drug. 
Acyclovir is the generic name for Zovirax, a prescription medication used to treat certain virus infections. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved acyclovir to treat viral infections from the varicella virus that causes chicken pox and shingles, as well as infections from the virus that causes genital herpes. Acyclovir is one of the oldest drugs used to treat herpes simplex viruses and remains the first line of treatment for these infections. However, research shows that acyclovir is not as effective as it used to be.
A: Acyclovir (Zovirax) http://www.everydayhealth.com/drugs/acyclovir is a medication used to treat viral infections. The most common side effects associated with the oral form of Acyclovir are diarrhea, nausea, vomiting, headache, and feeling tired (malaise). Acyclovir cream and ointment can cause skin irritation. Acyclovir is one of the oldest drugs used to treat herpes simplex viruses and remains the first line of treatment for these infections. However, research shows that acyclovir is not as effective as it used to be.
A: Acyclovir (Zovirax) is an antiviral medication that can be used in the treatment of the herpes virus, including genital herpes, cold sores, and shingles. Acyclovir can also be used to help with the chicken pox virus. Acyclovir is one of the oldest drugs used to treat herpes simplex viruses and remains the first line of treatment for these infections. However, research shows that acyclovir is not as effective as it used to be.