Standards that were issued by IASC (the predecessor of IASB) and are still within use today go by the name International Accounting Standards (IAS), while standards issued by IASB are called IFRS. IAS were issued between 1973 and 2001 by the Board of the International Accounting Standards Committee (IASC). IFRS, with the exception of IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies and IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29, are authorized in terms of the historical cost paradigm. IAS 29 and IFRIC 7 are authorized in terms of the units of constant purchasing power paradigm
1 International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are a set of accounting standards developed by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) that is becoming the global standard for the preparation of public company financial statements. 1 By adopting IFRS, a business can present its financial statements on the same basis as its foreign competitors, making comparisons easier. 2  Furthermore, companies with subsidiaries in countries that require or permit IFRS may be able to use one accounting language company-wide.
1 International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are a set of accounting standards developed by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) that is becoming the global standard for the preparation of public company financial statements. 1 • IFRS requires capitalization of development costs once certain qualifying criteria are met. 2  U.S. GAAP generally requires development costs to be expensed as incurred, except for costs related to the development of computer software, for which capitalization is required once certain
IFRS are standard in many parts of the world, including the European Union and many countries in Asia and South America, but not in the United States. The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is in the process of deciding whether or not to adopt the standards in America. The point of IFRS is to maintain stability and transparency throughout the financial world. This allows businesses and individual investors to make educated financial decisions, as they are able to see exactly what has been happening with a company in which they wish to invest.
GAAP is considered a more “rules based” system of accounting, while IFRS is more “principles based.” The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is looking to switch to IFRS by 2015. What follows is an overview of the differences between the accounting frameworks used by GAAP and IFRS. US GAAP (or FASB) framework has no provision that expressly requires management to consider the framework in the absence of a standard or interpretation for an issue. Under IFRS, company management is expressly required to consider the framework if there is no
GAAP (US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) is the accounting standard used in the US, while IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) is the accounting standard used in over 110 countries around the world. US GAAP (or FASB) framework has no provision that expressly requires management to consider the framework in the absence of a standard or interpretation for an issue. Under IFRS, company management is expressly required to consider the framework if there is no
IFRS 9 is an International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) promulgated by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). It addresses the accounting for financial instruments. 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) is a set of international accounting standards that states how certain transactions and events should be reported in financial statements. It is based upon principles rather than hard set rules, which is in contrast to U.S. GAAP, a rules-based accounting standard. 
International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) are designed as a common global language for business affairs so that company accounts are understandable and comparable across international boundaries. IFRS, with the exception of IAS 29 Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies and IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29, are authorized in terms of the historical cost paradigm. IAS 29 and IFRIC 7 are authorized in terms of the units of constant purchasing power paradigm