1 Select Account Info at the top left corner of your login dashboard. 2  You'll have to verify by entering your password. 3  In the Account Information screen, click on Manage Apps and Website Connections. 4  Look for Howrse in the list and click Remove to revoke its access. 1 Click on Revoke access. 2  Sign in on the Google Accounts homepage: https://accounts.google.com/. 3  Click Security on the left-hand side of the page. 4  Scroll down to the Connected applications and sites section and click the Manage access button.
Confidence votes 124. First if you have any horses send them to the safe haven.Then hover over profile, then click on my account (on the bar below the one that says profile), after you click on my account then click edit account scroll down and look on the bottem on the page to see the delete account button. Its simple, just go to your eq centers page and click on the tab labeled administration. there it will ask you for your p word to assure that it really is you deleting the eq … center. contact me on howrse for more help, my u name is katiekatiek. 3 people found this useful.
1 Select Howrse from the list and click Revoke access to complete the process. 2  Log in to your LinkedIn profile. 3  Go to your account settings: https://www.linkedin.com/settings/. 4  Go to Groups, Companies & Applications and click View you applications. 5  Look for Howrse in the second list. 1 Click on Revoke access. 2  Sign in on the Google Accounts homepage: https://accounts.google.com/. 3  Click Security on the left-hand side of the page. 4  Scroll down to the Connected applications and sites section and click the Manage access button.
yes you can delete you're howrse account all you have to do is look at the top of the page then click on profile and at the bottom left corner it will ask if you would like … to delete you're file and if you click it and.... bingo! you're file is deleted! 1 person found this useful. To delete you must type in your password then click delete. or you could just restart your account and have the same pass. and user name.
I didn't delete it, Howrse automatically deleted it because I haven't been on it for a while. Update: I can't call tech support because I don't haw a phone and I wouldn't be allowed to use the home phone to call about a game. Best Answer: Unlike the other two that answered, I actually play Howrse You can't get it back Once your account has been deleted you have to start a new one if you wish to play again If you haven't been onto your account within 90 days, then it gets set up for automatic deletion.
hi this is a fourum for unwanted howrse accounts..... if you want to quit howrse than post your login and password here... DONT LET YOUR HORSES SIT THERE FOREVER... 
yes you can delete you're howrse account all you have to do is look at the top of the page then click on profile and at the bottom left corner it will ask if you would like … to delete you're file and if you click it and.... bingo! you're file is deleted! 1 person found this useful. Its simple, just go to your eq centers page and click on the tab labeled administration. there it will ask you for your p word to assure that it really is you deleting the eq … center. contact me on howrse for more help, my u name is katiekatiek. 3 people
1 Select Account Info at the top left corner of your login dashboard. 2  You'll have to verify by entering your password. 3  In the Account Information screen, click on Manage Apps and Website Connections. 4  Look for Howrse in the list and click Remove to revoke its access. 1 Select Howrse from the list and click Revoke access to complete the process. 2  Log in to your LinkedIn profile. 3  Go to your account settings: https://www.linkedin.com/settings/. 4  Go to Groups, Companies & Applications and click View you applications. 5  Look for Howrse in the second list.