The Origin of the Caucus. The presidential nominating convention is a modern institution. In the early days of the Republic a very different method was pursued in order to place the candidates for the highest office in the land before the people. The term caucus is frequently used to discuss the procedures used by some states to select presidential nominees such as the Iowa caucuses, the first of the modern presidential election cycle, and the Texas caucuses.
The Republican and Democratic parties in each state select delegates based on either caucuses or a primary vote in that state -- the delegates are sent to represent voters in the state. The term caucus apparently comes from an Algonquin word meaning gathering of tribal chiefs, and the main crux of the caucus system today is indeed a series of meetings. To see how this works, let's look at the Iowa caucuses -- the first voting event of the presidential election year.
The delegates of each state are awarded to one of the presidential candidates and the candidate with the most number of delegates on his/her side wins the nomination. Some states use a winner-take-all approach and award all their delegates to the winner of the caucus or primary in that state. The caucus system was the original way in which political parties chose candidates. However, people began to feel that the secret ballot was a fairer, more democratic system so in the beginning of the 20th century, states began to move to the primary system.
A: In presidential campaigns, a caucus is a system of local gatherings where voters decide which candidate to support and select delegates for nominating conventions. A primary is a statewide voting process in which voters cast secret ballots for their preferred candidates. The results of the caucus are used to determine the delegates present at county, state and national nominating conventions of each political party. Most often, only registered voters can participate in a caucus, and they are limited to the caucus of the party with which they are affiliated.
See also: United States presidential primary ยง Process. The Democratic Party presidential primaries and caucuses are indirect elections in which voters cast ballots for a slate of delegates to the 2016 Democratic National Convention; these delegates in turn directly elect the Democratic Party's presidential nominee. The Democratic National Committee has also imposed rules for states wishing to hold early contests in 2016. No state will be permitted to hold a primary or caucus in January; and only Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina and Nevada are entitled to February contests.
In the 114th Congress, the Democratic Caucus additionally includes two independent senators who formally caucus with the Democrats for the purpose of committee assignments and Senate organization, bringing the total to 46 members. In addition, Reid added additional positions to the caucus leadership, following the loss of Majority status in the Senate in the 2014 Senate elections 1  : Senator Elizabeth Warren (MA) as Strategic Policy Advisor to the Senate Democratic Policy Committee.
The Senate Democratic Caucus (or Conference) is the formal organization of the current 44 Democratic Senators in the United States Senate. In addition, Reid added additional positions to the caucus leadership, following the loss of Majority status in the Senate in the 2014 Senate elections 1  : Senator Elizabeth Warren (MA) as Strategic Policy Advisor to the Senate Democratic Policy Committee.
Dems.Gov Live streams real-time events and updates from the House Democratic Caucus. You can also join the conversation by tweeting the handle @HouseDemocrats. 
Another difference is that there are some delegates (called unpledged delegates in the Republican system and superdelegates in the Democratic system) who are not bound by the results of the caucus or primary in their state. They are free to vote for the candidate of their choosing. The caucus system was the original way in which political parties chose candidates. However, people began to feel that the secret ballot was a fairer, more democratic system so in the beginning of the 20th century, states began to move to the primary system.
A caucus is a meeting of supporters or members of a specific political party or movement. The term originated in the United States, but has spread to Australia, Canada, New Zealand, South Africa, Brazil and Nepal. As the use of the term has been expanded, the exact definition has come to vary among political cultures. The term caucus is frequently used to discuss the procedures used by some states to select presidential nominees such as the Iowa caucuses, the first of the modern presidential election cycle, and the Texas caucuses.