The Oak Room. The Oak Room bar at the Plaza Hotel, built in 1907, was originally opened as a bar for men only. It was closed during Prohibition and was reopened as a restaurant in 1934. The Beatles even stayed at the Plaza during their first visit to the US in fall of 1964! The Plaza Hotel is also a typical hotspot on our famous Sex and the City Tour ! The Plaza is featured throughout the popular TV series Sex and the City, serving as a backdrop for Mr. Big's engagement party (to another woman!).
On July 31, 2012, India's business group Sahara India Pariwar agreed to buy a 75 percent controlling stake for $570 million from El Ad Properties. The stake includes 100 of the Plaza's 150 hotel-condominium units and a retail portion that includes The Oak Room bar. At the time, it cost $12.5 million to construct. When the hotel opened, a room at the Plaza Hotel was only $2.50 per night, the equivalent of $63 today. The same room costs over 15 times as much today. Alphonse Salamone joined the hotel in 1947, although later left to accept a position in San Juan at the Caribe Hilton.
The Oak Bar was established in its current location on the northwest corner of the Plaza Hotel in 1945 when the hotel was under the ownership of Conrad Hilton (or re-established – the area may have been part of the Men's Bar between 1912 and 1920). Central to the 2011 closing was a dispute between the owners of the Plaza Hotel (various investors led by the El-Ad Group) and Eli Gindi, owner of the Oak Room and lessee of the Plaza Hotel.
The Plaza Hotel, located in the Midtown Manhattan neighborhood of the borough of Manhattan, New York City, is a landmark 20-story luxury hotel and condominium apartment building, owned by the Indian conglomerate, Sahara India Pariwar. At the time, it cost $12.5 million to construct. When the hotel opened, a room at the Plaza Hotel was only $2.50 per night, the equivalent of $63 today. The same room costs over 15 times as much today. Alphonse Salamone joined the hotel in 1947, although later left to accept a position in San Juan at the Caribe Hilton.
The Oak Room was a bar and, later, a restaurant in the Plaza Hotel in New York City. It is distinct from the adjoining Oak Bar. Central to the 2011 closing was a dispute between the owners of the Plaza Hotel (various investors led by the El-Ad Group) and Eli Gindi, owner of the Oak Room and lessee of the Plaza Hotel.
Please Note. The Oak Room is currently available for private functions. For more information on hosting your event at this timeless location, please contact 212-549-0550. The Oak Bar be will re-opening shortly and live up to its iconic reputation as a New York City institution.
Continue reading the main story. Continue reading the main story. The Plaza Hotel ’s Oak Room restaurant, long a symbol of grandeur that evoked Edith Wharton’s opulent turn-of-the-century New York, is scheduled to close after a vitriolic fight between its operators and the hotel’s owners. “The reality is, worse things go on upstairs in the Plaza than whatever went on in the Oak Room,” Mr. Lynn said. A version of this article appears in print on May 6, 2011, on page A22 of the New York edition with the headline: Oak Room Is Set to Close After Rent Fight With Plaza Hotel.
The Oak Room and Oak Bar. Overlooking the vibrant views of Central Park South, The Oak Room and Oak Bar at The Plaza are two of New York City's most iconic institutions. For more information on hosting your event at this timeless location, please contact 212-549-0550. The Oak Bar be will re-opening shortly and live up to its iconic reputation as a New York City institution.
No sightseeing tour would be complete without a visit to the Plaza Hotel on our New York TV & Movies Sites Tour ! The Plaza Hotel is a beautiful 19-story luxury hotel located on the most exclusive street in New York City, Central Park South. The Beatles even stayed at the Plaza during their first visit to the US in fall of 1964! The Plaza Hotel is also a typical hotspot on our famous Sex and the City Tour ! The Plaza is featured throughout the popular TV series Sex and the City, serving as a backdrop for Mr. Big's engagement party (to another woman!).
InterContinental Kansas City at the Plaza (proud recipient of the 2015 tripadvisor Certificate of Excellence) is an iconic 366-room hotel located on the corner of one of Kansas City’s most stylish and historic shopping (boutique and otherwise), dining and entertainment districts, the Country Club Plaza. 