Overview of epidemiology, pathophysiology, and diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis. Gibofsky A(1). Author information: (1)Weill Medical College of Cornell University, Hospital for Special Surgery, New York, NY, USA. gibofskya@hss.edu. 
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a common autoimmune systemic inflammatory disease affecting approximately 1% of the worldwide population. 1,4 In addition, the corresponding systemic inflammation may result in disorders of multiple organ systems. 1 The health-related quality of life in patients with RA is significantly reduced by the pain, fatigue, loss of bodily function, and heavy economic burden associated with disease progression.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic systemic autoimmune disease that primarily involves the joints. RA causes damage mediated by cytokines, chemokines, and metalloproteases. RA should be suspected in patients with polyarticular, symmetric arthritis, particularly if the wrists and 2nd and 3rd metacarpophalangeal joints are involved. Criteria for the diagnosis of RA are listed in Diagnosing Rheumatoid Arthritis* .
Introduction. Osteoarthritis (OA) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) are two of the most common musculoskeletal conditions affecting individuals across the United States. Distinguished by cartilage degeneration and bony overgrowth, OA affects approximately 13.9% of adults who are ≥25 years of age. 1. Joint impact of osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. © Adapted from MedicineNet, Inc. Many factors impact the risk of developing RA. The risk of developing RA doubles with a first degree relative who has RA.
The pathophysiology of rheumatoid arthritis is mediated by an inter-related network of cytokines, proteolytic enzymes and prostanoids. IL-1, TNF-alpha, etc. are proinflammatory cytokines and are the central mediators in the disease. Interleukin (IL)-1 is highly responsible for the signs and symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis. First it mediates inflammation by recruiting neutrophils into the joint, activating macrophages, and stimulating T-and B-cell proliferation and differentiation.
Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a long lasting autoimmune disorder that primarily affects joints. It typically results in warm, swollen, and painful joints. Pain and stiffness often worsen following rest. Most commonly the wrist and hands are involved with typically the same joints involved on both sides of the body. 
Note: More up to date information regarding RA pathogenesis may be found in lectures given by the author on this website. 1  Immune Mediated Inflammatory Disease. 2  Histopathology. 3  Disease Initiation. 4  Propagation of Disease. Each year there are descriptions of new cytokines, mediators, and pathways that show additional promise in unraveling the complex pathobiological pathways. Rheumatoid arthritis is best characterized as an immune mediated inflammatory disease (IMID).
Background. Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic systemic inflammatory disease of unknown cause. The hallmark feature of this condition is persistent symmetric polyarthritis (synovitis) that affects the hands and feet, though any joint lined by a synovial membrane may be involved. The major difference between RA and other forms of inflammatory arthritis, such as psoriatic arthritis, lies not in their respective cytokine patterns but, rather, in the highly destructive potential of the RA synovial membrane and in the local and systemic autoimmunity.
See Rheumatoid Arthritis: In and Out of the Joint, a Critical Images slideshow, to help identify the distinguishing features of RA as well as the signs of extra-articular manifestations of this disfiguring disease. The major difference between RA and other forms of inflammatory arthritis, such as psoriatic arthritis, lies not in their respective cytokine patterns but, rather, in the highly destructive potential of the RA synovial membrane and in the local and systemic autoimmunity.