Genes are found inside choromosomes Genes are located on chromosomes, which are organized structures of DNA and protein. Chromosomes are found in the nucleus of the cell. Actually, a gene itself is coded for by the base sequence (the adenine-thymine and cytosine-guanine sequence) of a DNA strand. Hope that helps!
Sex-linked traits are genetic characteristics determined by genes, which are located on sex chromosomes. Genes are segments of DNA found on chromosomes that carry information for protein production and that are responsible for the inheritance of specific traits. Genes exist in alternative forms called alleles. Genes that are found on the sex chromosomes are called sex-linked genes. These genes can be on the X chromosome or on the Y chromosome. If a gene is located on the Y chromosome, it is a Y-linked gene. These genes are only inherited by males because, in most instances, males have a genotype of (XY). Females do not have the Y sex chromosome. Genes that are found on the X chromosome are called X-linked gen
Genes are a set of instructions that determine what the organism is like, its appearance, how it survives, and how it behaves in its environment. The genes lie in long strands of DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid) called chromosomes. Humans have 23 pairs of chromosomes-or a total of 46. Researchers from the University of California, San Francisco, found a new type of gene switch while studying the fungus Candida albicans (C. albicans) , that challenges the notion that we have discovered most of what there is to know about genes, how they work, and what governs their behavior.
They are found in almost every cells nucleus and are made from strands of DNA (deoxyribonucleic acid). Segments of DNA called genes are the ingredients. Each gene adds a specific protein to the recipe. Proteins build, regulate and maintain your body. For instance, they build bones, enable muscles to move, control digestion, and keep your heart beating. In this section, you can investigate what genes are and what they do, and even play a game testing your knowledge of what causes disease. Just click on where you want to go
noun, singular: linked gene. Genes that are inherited together with the other gene (s) as they are located on the same chromosome. Supplement. When a pair or set of genes are on the same chromosome, they are usually inherited together or as a single unit. 
Report Abuse. DNA are located in the cell, or to be specifically, a compartment, called the nucleus, in the cell. If DNA is the alphabets, then gene will be the message. Best Answer: In mammals, every cell with the exception of red blood cells has a nucleus. Inside the nucleus are the chromosomes and genes are located within the chromosomes.
DNA is found coiled up into chromosomes. The 46 chromsomes are found in the nucleus of every cell in your body. An exception to this is red blood cells, that have no nucleus. A small number of genes are also found in mitochondria. Best Answer: In mammals, every cell with the exception of red blood cells has a nucleus. Inside the nucleus are the chromosomes and genes are located within the
They are located on chromosomes. Genes are part of a DNA molecule which codes for 1 polypeptide. A gene is therefore defined by a sequence of bases. 6 people found this useful. Genes are DNA grouped together/organized on chromosomes which are found inside the nucleus of eukaryotic cells, and are found floating around in the cytoplasm as DNA in prokar … yotic cells. 1 person