The left coronary artery branches off into smaller arteries. The most prominent ones are the: 1  Left anterior descending artery, which supplies blood to the front of the heart. 2  Left circumflex artery, which encircles the heart muscle, supplying blood to the back of the heart. 
Location: The coronary system is comprised of arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules and veins. The coronary arteries originate as the right and left main coronary arteries which exit the ascending aorta just above the aortic valve (coronary ostia). These two branches subdivide and course over the surface of the heart (epicardium) as they traverse away from the aorta. 
Coronary circulation is the circulation of blood in the blood vessels of the heart muscle (myocardium). The vessels that deliver oxygen-rich blood to the myocardium are known as coronary arteries. The vessels that remove the deoxygenated blood from the heart muscle are known as cardiac veins. The left coronary artery distributes blood to the left side of the heart, the left atrium and ventricle, and the interventricular septum. The circumflex artery arises from the left coronary artery and follows the coronary sulcus to the left. Eventually, it will fuse with the small branches of the right coronary artery.
United States data. Anomalous origin of the left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery (ALCAPA) is a rare, congenital cardiac anomaly accounting for approximately 0.25-0.5% of all congenital heart disease. The incidence of ALCAPA does not vary geographically. ALCAPA is not considered an inheritable congenital cardiac defect. Inheritance is not a factor for anomalous origin of the left coronary artery from the pulmonary artery (ALCAPA). For example, if two family members are affected, the fact that they are within the same family did not have a role in their development of the condition.
The left main coronary artery supplies blood to the left side of the heart muscle (the left ventricle and left atrium). The left main coronary artery divides into branches: The left anterior descending artery, which branches off the left coronary artery and supplies blood to the front of the left side of the heart. The circumflex artery, which branches off the left coronary artery and encircles the heart muscle. This artery supplies blood to the lateral side and back of the heart. 
The heart muscle itself gets its blood supply from the coronary arteries. The left coronary artery and its branches, the left anterior descending artery and circumflex artery, supply blood to the chambers on the left side of the heart. This animation shows you where these arteries are located
Coronary arteries supply blood to the myocardium and other components of the heart. Two coronary arteries originate from the left side of the heart at the beginning (root) of the aorta, just after the aorta exits the left ventricle. There are three dilations in the wall of the aorta just superior to the aortic semilunar valve. The left coronary artery distributes blood to the left side of the heart, the left atrium and ventricle, and the interventricular septum. The circumflex artery arises from the left coronary artery and follows the coronary sulcus to the left. Eventually, it will fuse with the small branches of the right coronary artery.
The two main coronary arteries are the left main and right coronary arteries. Left main coronary artery (LMCA). The left main coronary artery supplies blood to the left side of the heart muscle (the left ventricle and left atrium). The left main coronary divides into branches: The left anterior descending artery, which branches off the left coronary artery and supplies blood to the front of the left side of the heart. The circumflex artery, which branches off the left coronary artery and encircles the heart muscle. This artery supplies blood to the outer side and back of the heart.
The heart receives its own supply of blood from the coronary arteries. Two major coronary arteries branch off from the aorta near the point where the aorta and the left ventricle meet. These arteries and their branches supply all parts of the heart muscle with blood. 1  Left Main Coronary Artery.
The left coronary artery originates from the left coronary sinus of the aorta, and, after a single initial trunk (left main coronary artery) of variable length and size, it gives rise to the left anterior descending (LAD) and left circumflex (LCx) coronary artery branches. 