The error is related to the distance the target is from you. Most sporting rifle scopes are set to be Parallax Error-Free at 100 yards. That is, when aiming through your scope at a target 100 yards away, the point of aim stays the same regardless of the position or movement of your eye (side to side or up/down). On the other hand, big game scopes are set to be parallax error free at 100 yards. At under 100 yards, BIG game are large enough that parallax won t throw you too far off your aiming point. And beyond 100 yards, the error is simply less for the difference in distance.
I've answered questions about scopes and parallax about 900 times, and it's always a long drawn out thing, going several e-mails, and a few phone calls. It doesn't seem to make any difference how long the guy has been shooting, this one always keep screwing guys up. OK... 
If the reticle changes position on the target when you shift your gaze, your parallax is not properly compensated for at that range. The reticle appears to move in relation to the target image because the focal planes are not coincident, making it appear to be a 3D image. For example, on a high-power variable 6-20x magnification scope parallax appears easy to compensate for at the lower 6x magnification setting. Once the zoom is increased to 20x it takes a very fine adjustment to completely eliminate parallax.
Parallax. Parallax is essentially an optical illusion. Parallax presents itself as the apparent movement of the reticle, in relation to the target, when your eye moves off center of the sight picture (exit pupil) or in more extreme cases it appears as an out of focus image.
Parallax can be defined appropriately to rifle scopes as the apparent movement of objects within the field of view in relation to the reticle. In a telescopic sight, parallax occurs when the “primary image” of the object is formed either in front of, or behind the reticle. It is also important to know that in every scope, there is some one shooting distance at which there is no parallax. In most rifle scopes this one point of zero parallax is usually placed at a suitable mid-range point in the scopes' focal range. In lower-quality scopes, there are other sources of parallax.
Most of the time, scopes are set to about 100 yards parallax adjustment, which is a good middle ground. How to Adjust for Parallax. When either your target or the reticle is not in focus, parallax makes your shots inaccurate. You’ll either adjust the objective lens (the lens that is closest to the target on the scope) or use an adjustment that is on the side. All you have to do to adjust for parallax is turn the knob until you can see that both your reticle and your target are in focus.
Parallax in rifle scopes manifests as the reticle or crosshairs, appearing to be on different points on the target due to slight changes in the position of the eye, relative to the scope's eyepiece. 
While adjustment in parallax on rifle scopes is not required, there are a lot of target shootesa who want this to be present in their scopes for easy targetting and shooting. Sometimes, the parallax is of concern because shooters want their rifle scopes to be clear and make their shooting accurate most of the time. Almost all brands don’t have the feature of adjusting the parallex but rather have a pre-set to be parallax free at around 100-200 yards, while shotguns are set at 50. A rifle scope parallax is a known optical illusion where the target looks out of focus and the focal plance of the target is offset from rifle scope reticle. It is the apparent movement of the reticle when the eyes move off center of the sight picture
It is important to know that in every scope, there is some parallax. It is also important to know that in every scope, there is some one shooting distance at which there is no parallax. In most rifle scopes this one point of zero parallax is usually placed at a suitable mid-range point in the scopes' focal range. In lower-quality scopes, there are other sources of parallax.