Corticosteroids are man-made drugs that closely resemble cortisol, a hormone that your adrenal glands produce naturally. Corticosteroids are often referred to by the shortened term steroids.. Corticosteroids are different from the male hormone-related steroid compounds that some athletes abuse. 
Corticosteroids are involved in a wide range of physiological processes, including stress response, immune response, and regulation of inflammation, carbohydrate metabolism, protein catabolism, blood electrolyte levels, and behavior. Use of corticosteroids has numerous side-effects, some of which may be severe: 1  Neuropsychiatric: steroid psychosis, and anxiety, depression. 2  Therapeutic doses may cause a feeling of artificial well-being (steroid euphoria).
Corticosteroids, often known as steroids, are an anti-inflammatory medicine prescribed for a wide range of conditions. They're a man-made version of hormones normally produced by the adrenal glands (two small glands that sit on top of the kidneys). Corticosteroids are available in different forms, including: 
Corticosteroids are powerful medications that can sometimes have a wide range of side effects. They will only be used if the potential benefits are thought to outweigh this risk. The risk of experiencing side effects largely depends on: 
Although they may cause a range of side effects, corticosteroids may also relieve the inflammation, pain and discomfort of many different diseases and conditions. If you work with your doctor to make choices that minimize side effects, you may achieve significant benefits with a reduced risk of such problems. When you know what side effects are possible, you can take steps to control their impact on your health. Side effects of oral corticosteroids. Because oral corticosteroids affect your entire body instead of just a particular area, this form is the most likely to cause significant side effects. Side effects depend on the dose of medication you receive and may include: 1  Elevated pressure in the eyes (glaucoma)
Corticosteroids mimic the effects of hormones your body produces naturally in your adrenal glands, which sit on top of your kidneys. When prescribed in doses that exceed your body's usual levels, corticosteroids suppress inflammation. This can reduce the signs and symptoms of inflammatory conditions, such as arthritis and asthma. Corticosteroid medications are used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, lupus, asthma, allergies and many other conditions. They also treat conditions such as Addison's disease, in which the adrenal glands don't produce enough steroids, and help prevent organ rejection in transplant recipients.
corticosteroids. Corticosteroids are group of natural and synthetic analogues of the hormones secreted by the hypothalamic-anterior pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis, more commonly referred to as the pituitary gland. Abrupt cessation of corticosteroids may result in acute adrenal crisis (Addisonian crisis) that is marked by dehydration with severe vomiting and diarrhea, hypotension, and loss of consciousness. Acute adrenal crisis is potentially fatal.
Corticosteroids are steroid hormones that are either produced by the body or are man-made. Systemic corticosteroids refer to corticosteroids that are given orally or by injection and distribute throughout the body. 
Corticosteroids can cause side effects. For example, this medication can cause a person to be less able to resist and fight off infections. When someone is on this drug, he may not respond as well to medical treatment for certain infections. A corticosteroid is a type of medication that is often referred to as a steroid. This powerful medication is used to treat inflammation.