Work it wrong and you might end up with another (probably unwanted) knot. For example, capsizing the two half hitches might end up in a granny knot, one of the worst of all knots. On the other hand if you know what you are doing, you might tie the wrong knot on purpose and capsize it to the hitch you want. Take care! (also called The Simple Hitch). Although this is probably the simplest knot of all, you have to be a skilled knot-tyer to know how to tye and use it in a safe way. The loose end of the rope is nipped against the object and the standing part.
When pulled tight, the clove hitch should look like an X. The difference between a clove hitch and two half-hitches is that a clove hitch is tied around an object and two half-hitches are tied around the rope’s own standing part. An alternative way of tying a clove hitch it to make and overhand loop in the rope. Then make a second overhand loop next to the first loop. Next, without turning over either loop, place the first loop on top of the second loop. 
If the end of the object which you want to lay the double constrictor on is free, it is best to tie the knot in the bight. If you master this technique it is much faster. Practice and check yourself after the first turn. If that resulted in the single constrictor instead of the clove hitch you started the wrong way. Tied this way the Marline Hitch is an even better cross-knot as the previous version of the Transom. It is not possible for the half-knot to work itself between both rods where it is not held by the overlaying rope. Therefore, it is a better cross knot than the constrictor-
The clove hitch is a type of knot. Along with the bowline and the sheet bend, it is often considered one of the most important knots and is commonly referred to as a Double Hitch. A clove hitch is two successive half-hitches around an object. It is most effectively used as a crossing knot. It can be used as a binding knot, but is not particularly secure in that role.
If you want a knot that will slide at the end of the rope to tension it, such as on a tent guy, use the tent hitch. Be careful because this knot only works if the tension is always present and always from the same direction. However, it you put two if them together, in a clove hitch or double half hitch, well then you have got something. The two identical loops snug up against each other to hold tight. This knot is used to quickly tie off to a vertical or horizontal post or piling.
Pick up the running end of the rope (the end that will be loose after you tie the knot). Wrap it halfway around the pole or timber. http://pad1.whstatic.com/images/thumb/d/dd/Tie-a-Clove-Hitch-Knot-Step-1-preview-Version-2.jpg/550px-Tie-a-Clove-Hitch-Knot-Step-1-preview-Version-2.jpg. A clove hitch may be tied by forming two loops and putting a pole through those two loops. This alternative technique has the limitation of having to be tied at the end of a pole. However, it is quicker to tie than the above method.
The structure of the bowline is identical to that of the sheet bend, except the bowline forms a loop in one rope and the sheet bend joins two ropes. Along with the sheet bend and the clove hitch, the bowline is often considered one of the most essential knots. 
A clove hitch made around the rope's own standing part is known as either two half-hitches or buntline hitch, depending on whether the turns of the clove hitch progress away from or towards the hitched object. A clove hitch is two successive half-hitches around an object. It is most effectively used as a crossing knot. It can be used as a binding knot, but is not particularly secure in that role.
Square Knot The square knot is used as a binding knot for such things asclamping a pad on a wound, tying a gathering rope on themale end of an extension cord, or as a shoestring knot. Thebowknot we all use to tie our shoes with is really just a doubleslipped square knot. 
Method 2 of 2: Quicker Method. 1. This is an alternative method of tying the clove hitch. A clove hitch may be tied by forming two loops and putting a pole through those two loops. This alternative technique has the limitation of having to be tied at the end of a pole. However, it is quicker to tie than the above method.