Amniocentesis involves removing a small sample of amniotic fluid from the womb so the cells it contains can be tested. Amniotic fluid surrounds the foetus (unborn baby) in the womb (uterus). The fluid contains cells shed by the foetus that can be analysed for information about the health of your baby. 
email. Knowledge center. Amniocentesis, also known as Amniotic Fluid Test is a test that detects chromosomal abnormalities in the fetus. A sample of amniotic fluid is taken from the amniotic sac (amnion) surrounding the unborn baby and its DNA is examined for genetic abnormalities. 
Amniocentesis is a prenatal test that allows your healthcare practitioner to gather information about your baby's health from a sample of your amniotic fluid. This is the fluid that surrounds your baby in the uterus. 
1 Amniocentesis can also be used to determine the maturity of the lungs of the fetus or the cause of unknown fever in the mother. 2  For genetic testing, chromosome analysis, and the evaluation of an abnormal alpha feto-protein test, amniocentesis is usually performed between the 16th and 21st weeks of pregnancy. Amniocentesis is a procedure whereby a sample of fluid is removed from the amniotic sac for analysis. The amniotic sac is in the uterine cavity. The amniotic sac is the fluid-filled structure inside a pregnant woman's uterus within which the baby lives. Fetal cells, proteins, and fetal urine freely move within this sac.
Definition. Amniocentesis is a procedure used to diagnose fetal defects in the early second trimester of pregnancy. A sample of the amniotic fluid, which surrounds a fetus in the womb, is collected through a pregnant woman's abdomen using a needle and syringe. A procedure in which a small sample of amniotic fluid is drawn out of the uterus through a needle inserted in the abdomen and is then analyzed to detect genetic abnormalities in the fetus or to determine the sex of the fetus.
Amniocentesis is a prenatal test in which a small amount of amniotic fluid is removed from the sac surrounding the fetus for testing. During pregnancy, the fetus is surrounded by amniotic fluid, a substance much like water. Amniotic fluid contains live fetal cells and other substances, such as alpha-fetoprotein (AFP). These substances provide important information about your baby's health before birth.
Amniocentesis is a procedure used to obtain a small sample of the amniotic fluid that surrounds the fetus during pregnancy. Amniotic fluid is a clear, pale yellow fluid made by the fetus. The fluid protects the fetus from injury and helps to regulate the temperature of the fetus. 
Amniocentesis. Amniocentesis is a procedure in which amniotic fluid is removed from the uterus for testing or treatment. Amniotic fluid is the fluid that surrounds and protects a baby during pregnancy. This fluid contains fetal cells and various chemicals produced by the baby. 