1 For a simple start-up, expect a minimum of 0.5-1.5 hours of consultation ($75-$600) to go over your business structure and basic tax issues. 1 You'll pay lower rates for routine work done by a less-experienced associate or lesser-trained employee, such as $30-$50 for bookkeeping services. 2  An accountant's total fee depends on the project.
1 A part-time tax-preparer who operates out of a home may charge around $100 for a relatively simple return. 2  A professional CPA operating out of an office might charge $200-$400 for a relatively straightforward return, depending on the complexity of the return, the local cost of living, and the size of the office. 1 No matter which you choose, you should receive a copy of your tax return with clear instructions of where to send them to, how much you need to pay (or how much you will be refunded), and how to complete the forms.
1 If you have a larger business with employees, directors and more, your price an range anywhere from $500 to as much as $5,000+ depending on the size, payroll, etc. 2  Any good account accountant is going to consult with you for a certain period of time. 1 On average, an accountant is going to charge anywhere from $125 to $425 an hour. 2  Factors that influence this pricing is your work load, the accountant in general, his / her experience, location and more.
1 If your income is less than $50,000, you may qualify for Free File, a partnership between the IRS and the Free File Alliance, which should let you e-file your taxes for free. 1 No matter which you choose, you should receive a copy of your tax return with clear instructions of where to send them to, how much you need to pay (or how much you will be refunded), and how to complete the forms.
1 Accountants charge $150-$400 or more an hour, depending on the type of work, the size of the firm and its location. 2  You'll pay lower rates for routine work done by a less-experienced associate or lesser-trained employee, such as $30-$50 for bookkeeping services. 3  An accountant's total fee depends on the project. 1 You'll pay lower rates for routine work done by a less-experienced associate or lesser-trained employee, such as $30-$50 for bookkeeping services. 2
1 Software, such as Intuit's TurboTax, typically costs between $20-$90, depending on the complexity of your returns and whether you need to complete a state return. 2  During the past two years, retail discounts during February and March have been common. 3  An online version, Web TurboTax, is also available. 1 No matter which you choose, you should receive a copy of your tax return with clear instructions of where to send them to, how much you need to pay (or how much you will be refunded), and how to complete the forms.
Price. There is no way around the fact that you will pay less for a software package than you will to hire a CPA or another qualified tax professional. The price of tax preparation software ranges from the $10 to $120 range to websites that offer the service for free. On the other hand, the least expensive tax preparers will cost at least $100 and a CPA is likely to charge at least twice that amount. 
1 Factors that influence this pricing is your work load, the accountant in general, his / her experience, location and more. 2  For something simple such as a bookkeeping service, it can range from $25 to $55 depending on the size of the job, the geographical location, etc. 1 On average, an accountant is going to charge anywhere from $125 to $425 an hour. 2 
Private firms and individual CPA's generally charge one of two ways either a flat rate, or an hourly rate. Hourly rates vary by city. The rates can be as low as $25 per hour, or as high as $300 per hour. Flat rate means you will pay one rate for the preparation of your taxes. For personal returns, which are more standardized, you can expect a total fee between $400 and $500 for your IRS 1040 return and associated forms. For business returns, some individual CPA's charge a sliding scale, based on receipts. For example, if your business has annual receipts of $500,000, they can charge a fee of $400. However, for a business with annual receipts of $1 million, they may charge $850 to file the return
1 For example, if you're considering buying a San Francisco Bay Area business that's for sale for less than $1 million, an accountant's fees for a due diligence evaluation of all financial aspects of the company and the transaction could run $5,000-$25,000, according to SFGate.com. 1 You'll pay lower rates for routine work done by a less-experienced associate or lesser-trained employee, such as $30-$50 for bookkeeping services. 2  An accountant's total fee depends on the project.