1 Add artichokes, and partially cover and return to a boil. 2  Cook until the stem end is easily pierced with a fork. 3  Allow about 30 minutes for medium and 40 minutes for large artichokes. 4  Remove from liquid and drain upside down. 1 (I omit this step at this point and do it after cooking) Combine all ingredients, except artichokes, and bring to a boil. 2  Add artichokes, and partially cover and return to a boil. 3  Cook until the stem end is easily pierced with a fork. 4
Cover the pot with the lid and let Artichokes cook at a high simmer on stove until they are tender. Cooking time can vary, depending on the size of the Artichokes. A good approximation is 30 minutes for a Medium-sized Artichoke or 45 minutes for a Jumbo-sized Artichoke. Prep Time: 5 mins Cook Time: 30 mins. Boiling fresh Artichokes is one of the original and classic ways to cook the veggie. Plus, a lot of restaurants still use this method today! Bring a large pot of salted water to a boil. Place rinsed and trimmed Artichokes directly into the pot of rapidly boiling water
Steam your artichokes for less cooking time and to preserve more of their nutrients. 1  Place a couple inches (4 cm) of water into a pot to boil with a steaming basket on top. 2  Drop the artichokes into the pot once the water begins to boil and steam for 15 to 20 minutes. 3  Drain artichokes with the stem up before serving. Boiling artichokes. 1. Boil the artichokes for the most traditional method of cooking them. 1  Put a large pot of water on the stove to boil and add salt. 2  Drop the artichokes carefully into the pot once the water begins to boil and leave them to cook for 30 to 45 minutes.
Cover. Bring to a boil and reduce heat to simmer. Cook for 25 to 45 minutes or until the outer leaves can easily be pulled off. Note: artichokes can also be cooked in a pressure cooker (about 15-20 minutes cooking time). Cooking time depends on how large the artichoke is, the larger, the longer it takes to cook. 2 Slice about 3/4 inch to an inch off the tip of the artichoke. 3 Pull off any smaller leaves towards the base and on the stem. 4 Cut excess stem, leaving up to an inch on the artichoke. The stems tend to be more bitter than the rest of the artichoke, but some people like to eat them.
How To Cook Artichokes: Cooking time depends on how large the artichoke is-the larger the artichoke, the longer it takes to cook. Boiling Method: Stand up the prepared artichoke in a deep saucepan or pot with 3-inches boiling water (if desired, oil, lemon juice and/or seasonings can be added to cooking water). When done cooking, remove from the pot and stand artichoke upside down on a rack to drain. Steaming Method: Place prepared artichoke on a rack above 1- to 2-inches of boiling water. Cover and steam approximately 25 to 45 minutes, depending on size, or until a petal near the center pulls out easily.
1 Fill a large stainless-steel or enameled pot with lightly salted water; bring to boiling. 2  Add artichokes and return water to boiling. 3  Reduce heat; simmer, covered, for about 20 to 30 minutes or until you can easily pull out a leaf from the center of an artichoke. 
1 Microwave: Place two artichokes in a microwave-safe casserole with 2 tablespoons water. 2  Cover with waxed paper, vented plastic wrap, or the lid of the casserole. 3  Microwave, covered, on 100 percent power (high) for 7 to 9 minutes, rearranging artichokes once during cooking. 1 Cover and simmer for 20 to 30 minutes. 2  Steam: Fill a large saucepan or pot with about 1 inch water. 3  Place a steamer basket in the saucepan or pot, then bring the water to boiling. 4  Add artichokes, stem end down, to the steamer basket using tongs or a slotted spoon.
1 Place artichokes in a large baking pan and fill bottom of pan with 1/2 to 1 inch of water. 2  Drizzle olive oil over top of stuffed artichokes and cover tightly with heavy duty foil. 3  Cook on 375 degrees for approximately 60-80 minutes (depending on size of artichoke) or until leave comes out easily. 