I know for a fact that gastric bypass does cause malabsorption problems with both nutrients and medications. Your dose may need to be increased if it is not as affective as before your surgery, or taken in liquid for or by injection.
1. Anatomically, the villi and microvilli of the small intestine have a larger surface area for absorption than does the colon. When the duodenum is bypassed along with much of the jejunum, as in gastric bypass surgery, a significant amount of surface area is lost and drug delivery is altered.
The shorter intestinal length after gastric bypass or duodenal switch surgery can make extended-release drug preparations less effective. Some extended-release drugs include antidepressants (Wellbutrin XL), anxiolytics and sleep medications (Xanax XR), and anti-hypertensives (Toprol XL, Verapamil XL).
The ability to absorb medication after bariatric surgery varies with each procedure. Patients who opt for the sleeve or gastric band can usually absorb medications as they did prior to weight loss surgery, since the small intestine remains unaltered.
With gastric bypass surgery, the stomach is made smaller by reducing it to a thumb-sized pouch (15-30 mL or 1-2 tablespoons in volume), which considerably restricts the amount of food that can be eaten, as well as provide less surface area for the absorption of vitamins and minerals from food.
Gastric Bypass. Gastric bypass surgery uses a combination of restricted food intake and malabsorption to speed weight loss. First, the surgeon reduces the stomach to an egg-sized pouch, helping you feel full after eating small amounts of food.
Gastric bypass surgery, a type of bariatric surgery (weight loss surgery), is a procedure that alters the process of digestion.
A: Many medications can be absorbed normally after gastric bypass surgery. But certain drugs, including some types of time-release medications, require careful monitoring in people who have had gastric bypass.
Gastric bypass surgery, a type of bariatric surgery (weight loss surgery), is a procedure that alters the process of digestion. Bariatric surgery is the only option today that effectively treats morbid obesity in people for whom more conservative measures such as diet, exercise, and medication have not been effective.
Drugs with long stomach absorptive phases should be avoided or precautions should be taken. 1 Such medications include nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory medications, salicylates and bisphosphonates. The goal is to restrict or limit use of these in the patient who has undergone Roux-En-Y gastric bypass.