In addition to office temperature, OSHA's recommendations for air quality in the workplace include a level of humidity between 20 and 60 percent and the treatment of air through the use of filters, electronic cleaners or chemicals. The air in the office should also be efficiently ventilated and free from contaminants. The Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) does not contain specific regulations for office temperature. It does, however, mandate a workplace free from hazard. It's rare that office temperature would be so severe as to represent a legitimate hazard.
There have been a number of studies conducted to determine what temperature your office thermostat should be set at for optimal productivity across your workforce. And it should come as no surprise that the more studies that are done the more disagreement there is as to what that temperature is. It may seem like common since that the working at a comfortable temperature would make you more productive, but what may not be apparent is how much of a difference just a couple of degrees can make in that very same productivity and your overall office ergonomics.
Some of our offices are separated from the main building complex. In summer it is extremely hot & humid inside these offices (between 28-34°C in summer), and in winter it is very cold. Both male & female employees have requested management for a long time to install air conditioners with no success. 
Top Ten Facts About Office Temperature. Office temperatures that are too hot or too cold are one of the most common complaints amongst staff in a work environment and contribute to millions of dollars in lost productivity each year. Here are the top ten facts about office temperature that will help you win the battle for the air conditioning controls: 1 The Australian Standard AS 1837 – 1976 Code of practice for application of ergonomics to factory and office work recommends a temperature range of 21-24 degrees Celsius for both offices and factories in summer. 2  The preferred winter temperature is usually about two degrees lower than in summer.
1 70-72ºF (21-22ºC) is the temperature range that will make you the most productive. 2  Any temperature above 73º decreases your productivity. 3  At 86º and above, your productivity drops to about 90% of what it was before, a 10% decrease. 4  Any temperature below 68º also decreases your productivity. The exact temperature to set your office thermostat to be the most productive. Posted by Chris Bailey × May 29, 2013 at 9:16 am. Takeaway: Keep your office between 70-72ºF (21-22ºC) to be the most productive. Estimated Reading Time: 52 seconds. Summer can be harsh on your productivity. A recent survey found that during the summer, workplace productivity drops 20%, attendance drops 18%, project turnaround times increase 13%, and people are 45% more distracted. The temperature of your office has a huge impact on
The majority of research has shown an optimal office temperature between 70 and 73 degrees Fahrenheit (21 to 23 degrees Celsius) provides the best air temperature for maximum office worker productivity. It may seem like common since that the working at a comfortable temperature would make you more productive, but what may not be apparent is how much of a difference just a couple of degrees can make in that very same productivity and your overall office ergonomics.
Here’s what the research shows: 1  70-72ºF (21-22ºC) is the temperature range that will make you the most productive. 2  Any temperature above 73º decreases your productivity. 3  At 86º and above, your productivity drops to about 90% of what it was before, a 10% decrease. The exact temperature to set your office thermostat to be the most productive. Posted by Chris Bailey × May 29, 2013 at 9:16 am. Takeaway: Keep your office between 70-72ºF (21-22ºC) to be the most productive. Estimated Reading Time: 52 seconds. Summer can be harsh on your productivity. A recent survey found that during the summer, workplace productivity drops 20%, attendance drops 18%, project turnaround times increase 13%, and people are 45% more distracted. The temperature of your office has a huge impact on your productivity
A general recommendation is that the temperature be held constant in the range of 21-23°C (69-73°F). In summertime when outdoor temperatures are higher it is advisable to keep air-conditioned offices slightly warmer to minimize the temperature discrepancy between indoors and outdoors. Relative humidity levels below 20% can cause discomfort through drying of the mucous membranes and skin. Low relative humidity levels may also cause static electricity build-up and negatively effect the operations of some office equipment such as printers and computers.