This Greek/Lebanese style meat loaf is sliced and served with pita bread, tzatziki, and tomatoes for a delicious gyro that is the closest I've come to emulating my favorite Mediterranean restaurant. 1 Bake until the gyro meat is no longer pink in the center, and the internal temperature registers 165 degrees F (75 degrees C) on a meat thermometer, 45 minutes to 1 hour.
A gyro sandwich is a popular sandwich that combines gyro meat  (typically seasoned lamb or beef), tomatoes, onions, lettuce, and  tzatziki sauce on a pita bread wrap. The br … ead and sandwich are  similar in some ways to the middle eastern schwarma sandwiches. Answered. In Grilling. Gyro (correct pronunciation is year-o, not ji-ro) is a kind of sandwich of Greek origin. The meat is traditionally ground lamb. Mixed with spices and cooked on a vertical rotisserie
Gyros are Greek in origin. They are simply meat, tomatoes, onion, and tzatziki sauce on pita. In Greece the meat is typically pork (never had one). In America, specifically here in Chicago (their local origin), the meat is a combination of beef & lamb. Shwawarma is Middle Eastern in origin. 
The meats used in a traditional gyro sandwich may be pork, chicken, beef or lamb. In Greece and surrounding countries, the term gyro sandwich may also refer to a similar sandwich called souvlaki. Top 10 facts about the world. A gyro sandwich consists of various rotisseried meats, salad vegetables such as tomatoes, lettuce and onions, along with a yogurt-based tzatziki sauce. These ingredients are placed on a hearty form of grilled pita bread and served as a wrap sandwich.
Technically, gyro is just the lamb meat however a complete gyro comes with pita bread, tatziki sauce, tomatoes and onioins. Gyro (correct pronunciation is year-o, not ji-ro) is a kind of sandwich of Greek origin. The meat is traditionally ground lamb. Mixed with spices and cooked on a vertical rotisserie
· just now. Report Abuse. Gyros or gyro (giros) (pronounced /ˈjɪəroʊ/ or /ˈdʒaɪroʊ/, Greek: γύρος turn) is a Greek dish consisting of meat (typically lamb and/or beef), tomato, onion, and tzatziki sauce, and is served with pita bread. Chicken and pork meat can be used too. 
A gyro sandwich. Doner meat being cut off the spit with a knife. A stack of fresh pita bread which is used in making gyro sandwiches. Spice-rubbed roast chicken is a staple in gyros and other Greek dishes. Mustard may be served with a gyro sandwich. Top 10 facts about the world. A gyro sandwich consists of various rotisseried meats, salad vegetables such as tomatoes, lettuce and onions, along with a yogurt-based tzatziki sauce. These ingredients are placed on a hearty form of grilled pita bread and served as a wrap sandwich.
To make gyros, pieces of meat are placed on a tall vertical rotisserie, in the shape of an inverted cone, which turns slowly in front of a source of heat, usually an electric broiler. If the meat is not fatty enough, strips of fat are added so that the roasting meat always remains moist and crisp. 