Definition of AQUARIUS for Kids. 1. : a constellation between Capricorn and Pisces imagined as a man pouring water. 2. : the eleventh sign of the zodiac or a person born under this sign. : the 11th sign of the zodiac that comes between Capricorn and Pisces and is symbolized by a person carrying a jug of water. : a person born under the sign Aquarius: a person born between January 20th and February 18th
by Tarotcom Staff. Here comes quirky Aquarius, marching to the sound of their own off-beat drummer. Aquarius is symbolized by the Water-Bearer, though it's actually an Air sign. Ruled by the unpredictable planet Uranus, Aquarius is the most eccentric zodiac sign -- there's never a dull moment with an Aquarius around. Intellectual, friendly and future-minded, Aquarians are not very emotional -- but they still are the humanitarians of the zodiac
Aquarius (♒) (Greek: ύδροχόος Hydrokhooes, Hydrokhoös: Latin) aquārius is the eleventh astrological sign in The, zodiac originating from the Constellation. aquarius The water carrier represented by the zodiacal constellation Aquarius is Ganymede, a beautiful Phrygian youth. Ganymede was the son of Tros, king of Troy (according to Lucian, he was also son of Dardanus).
Aquarians basically possess strong and attractive personalities. They fall into two principle types: one shy, sensitive, gentle and patient; the other exuberant, lively and exhibitionist, sometimes hiding the considerable depths of their character under a cloak of frivolity. Aquarians can be a threat to all they survey or a great boon for humanity in general. Circumstances-for example, continuous opposition to a cause they hold dear-may cause the atrophy of the openness of mind that is one of the Aquarian's most attractive traits.
Aquarius is a constellation of the zodiac, situated between Capricornus and Pisces. Its name is Latin for water-carrier or cup-carrier, and its symbol is (Unicode ♒), a representation of water. Aquarius is one of the oldest of the recognized constellations along the zodiac (the sun 's apparent path). 
Aquarius (♒) (Greek: ύδροχόος Hydrokhooes, Hydrokhoös: Latin) aquārius is the eleventh astrological sign in The, zodiac originating from the Constellation. Aquarius the water carrier represented by the zodiacal Constellation aquarius Is, ganymede a Beautiful phrygian. youth The water carrier represented by the zodiacal constellation Aquarius is Ganymede, a beautiful Phrygian youth. Ganymede was the son of Tros, king of Troy (according to Lucian, he was also son of Dardanus).
Aquarius is the eleventh sign of the zodiac, and Aquarians are the perfect representatives for the Age of Aquarius. Those born under this sign have the social conscience needed to carry us into the new millennium. These folks are humanitarian, philanthropic and keenly interested in making the world a better place. Aquarius is ruled by Saturn and Uranus. Powerful Saturn was considered the father of many gods in ancient Roman times, and was the original ruler of Aquarius. Uranus is the oldest of the gods in Roman mythology; this planet was discovered much later than Saturn and was only more recently assigned to this sign.
noun Aquar·i·us \-ē-əs\. Tweet. : the 11th sign of the zodiac that comes between Capricorn and Pisces and is symbolized by a person carrying a jug of water. : a person born under the sign Aquarius: a person born between January 20th and February 18th