In the eukaryotic cell, the cytosol is within the cell membrane and is part of the cytoplasm, which also comprises the mitochondria, plastids, and other organelles (but not their internal fluids and structures); the cell nucleus is separate. In prokaryotes the cytosol contains the cell's genome, within a structure known as a nucleoid. This is an irregular mass of DNA and associated proteins that control the transcription and replication of the bacterial chromosome and plasmids.
Organelles are specialized membrane-enclosed structures in the cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells. The nucleus, which contains DNA in the form of chromosomes, is the most characteristic eukaryotic organelle. The nuclear envelope is connected to a system of membranes in the; cytoplasm called the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). The Plasma (Cytoplasmic) Membrane. Like the prokaryotic plasma membrane, the eukaryotic plasma membrane is a phospholipid bilayer containing proteins. Eukaryotic plasma membranes contain carbohydrates attached to the proteins and sterols not found in prokaryotic cells (except Mycoplasma bacteria).
1 Some eukaryotic cells (plant cells and fungal cells) also have a cell wall. 2  Inside the cell is the cytoplasmic region that contains the genome (DNA), ribosomes and various sorts of inclusions. 3  The genetic material is freely found in the cytoplasm. Cells consist of cytoplasm enclosed within a membrane, which contains many biomolecules such as proteins and nucleic acids. Organisms can be classified as unicellular (consisting of a single cell; including bacteria) or multicellular (including plants and animals).
All prokaryotic cells contain large quantities of genetic material in the form of DNA and RNA. Because prokaryotic cells, by definition, do not have a nucleus, the single large circular strand of DNA containing most of the genes needed for cell growth, survival, and reproduction is found in the cytoplasm.
The membrane helps move materials into and out of the cell. Cytoplasm As in prokaryotic cells, eukaryotic cells contain cytoplasm that takes up much of the space inside the cells.Nucleus The nucleus is the central organelle that holds DNA. DNA DNA within a eukaryotic cell is linear and organized into chromosomes. 
Cytoplasm. The cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells includes everything inside the plasma membrane and external to the nucleus. The chemical characteristics of the cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells resemble those of the cytoplasm of prokaryotic cells. The Plasma (Cytoplasmic) Membrane. Like the prokaryotic plasma membrane, the eukaryotic plasma membrane is a phospholipid bilayer containing proteins. Eukaryotic plasma membranes contain carbohydrates attached to the proteins and sterols not found in prokaryotic cells (except Mycoplasma bacteria).
Both cells have a cytoplasm and nuclear membrane, and the use of DNA for its genetic information. The main distinguishing factor of a Eukaryotic Cell from the Prokaryotic Cell is the presence of nuclear envelope. Prokaryotic cells are generally smaller than Eukaryotic cells. 
The cytoplasm in prokaryotic cells is a gel-like, yet fluid, substance in which all of the other cellular components are suspended. Jello for cells. It is very similar to the eukaryotic cytoplasm, except that it does not contain organelles. Recently, biologists have discovered that prokaryotic cells have a complex and functional cytoskeleton similar to that seen in eukaryotic cells. Because prokaryotic cells, by definition, do not have a nucleus, the single large circular strand of DNA containing most of the genes needed for cell growth, survival, and reproduction is found in the cytoplasm.
Contact. Unlike eukaryotes (which have numerous membrane-bound organelles that create different compartments within the cell) prokaryotes have only one membrane, the plasma membrane, which encloses the cytoplasm and all of its cellular contents. 
The cytoplasm of eukaryotic cells is filled with a large, complex collection of organelles, many of them enclosed in their own membranes; the prokaryotic cell contains no membrane-bound organelles which are independent of the plasma membrane. Best Answer: Prokaryotic cells have no nucleus.The purpose of the nucleus is to sequester the DNA-related functions of the big eukaryotic cell into a smaller chamber, for the purpose of increased efficiency.