The Flooding of the Nile. The Ancient Egyptians made many great advances in science and contributions to the store of human knowledge, especially in medicine and alchemy. The Egyptians also contributed to ancient astronomy and, as with the Mesopotamians, their work was based upon agriculture and predicting the seasons.
Copernicus. Well over a thousand years later, Nicolaus Copernicus came up with a radical way of looking at the Universe. His heliocentric system put the Sun (helio) at the center of our system. He was not the first to have this theory. Earlier starwatchers had believed the same, but it was Copernicus who brought it to the world of the Renaissance and used his own observations of the movements of the planets to back up his idea. This site from NASA follows the development of ideas about the solar system from Ptolemy to Copernicus to Galileo. Makers of Science by Michael Allaby & Derek Gjertsen. Volume one of this reference set has information on Aristotle, Copernicus, and Galileo.
Aristotle. He is sometimes called the grandfather of science. He studied under the great philosopher Plato and later started his own school, the Lyceum at Athens. He, too, believed in a geocentric Universe and that the planets and stars were perfect spheres though Earth itself was not. This site from NASA follows the development of ideas about the solar system from Ptolemy to Copernicus to Galileo. Makers of Science by Michael Allaby & Derek Gjertsen. Volume one of this reference set has information on Aristotle, Copernicus, and Galileo.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The early astronomers were Nicolaus Copernicus, Tycho Brahe, Johannes Kepler, Galileo Galileo, and Sir Isaac Newton. Copernicus concluded that Earth is a planet. He proposed a model of the solar system with the sun at the center. Brahe's observations, especially of Mars, were far more precise than any made previously. Kepler discovered three laws of planetary motion.
Several ancient African cultures birthed discoveries in astronomy. Many of these are foundations on which we still rely, and some were so advanced that their mode of discovery still cannot be understood. Egyptians charted the movement of the sun and constellations and the cycles of the moon. Despite this, it still should be evident that the ancient people of Africa, like so many other ancients of the world, definitely had their genius. Math. Surely only a few of us know that many modern high-school-level concepts in mathematics first were developed in Africa, as was the first method of counting.
The early astronomers were Nicolaus Copernicus, Tycho Brahe, Johannes Kepler, Galileo Galileo, and Sir Isaac Newton. Copernicus concluded that Earth is a planet. He proposed … a model of the solar system with the sun at the center. Brahe's observations, especially of Mars, were far more precise than any made previously. Kepler discovered three laws of planetary motion. Some accomplishments of the Chaldeans were: the sun dial, and the 7 day week. Chaldea is acually neo babalonia or new babylon, so they still had the hanging gardens, which are … also an achievement.
Here is a chronological list of the major ancient Greek scientists that focuses on the inventions or discoveries attributed to them, rightly or wrongly, especially in the areas of astronomy, geography, and mathematics. In the field of astronomy, Pythagoras may have thought of the universe as rotating daily around an axis corresponding with the axis of the earth. He may have thought of the sun, moon, planets, and even the earth as spheres. He is credited with being the first to realize the Morning Star and Evening Star were the same.
In the Mesoamerican culture, the practice of astronomy was extremely important. To the Maya of Mesoamerica, this ancient science reflected order in the universe and the gods' place in it. This order reflected an inherent harmony present in their general theological view of the universe. 
Indian astronomy flowered in the 5th-6th century, with Aryabhata, whose Aryabhatiya represented the pinnacle of astronomical knowledge at the time. Afterwards the astronomy developed as a discipline of Vedanga or one of the auxiliary disciplines associated with the study of the Vedas, dating 1500 BCE or older. The oldest known text is the Vedanga Jyotisha, dated to 1400–1200 BCE (with the extant form possibly from 700–600 BCE).