Parature provides on-demand customer service software, making it possible for any business to leverage the Internet to provide outstanding customer service and online support.
Parature CRM is a cloud-based solution that creates amazing customer experiences through a combination of knowledge management, self-service, and multichannel interactions.
Create Amazing Customer Experiences. Parature is a cloud-based solution that creates amazing customer experiences through a combination of knowledge management, self-service and multi-channel interactions: 1  Leverage Knowledge: Boost employee productivity with quick access to consistent and organized information.
Parature is a Software as a Service Customer Care Application. The purpose of this article is to convey the major components of the Software, and to provide a high level understanding of Parature’s capabilities.
Microsoft Parature is a cloud-based customer engagement solution that enterprises can deploy to provide self-service capabilities to their customers.
Ever since January when Microsoft announced it had acquired Parature, a cloud based customer service solution provider, there’s been a fair amount of speculation about what this means for Microsoft’s Dynamics CRM customer relationship management platform.
Discover the Parature Advantage. Parature is a cloud-based customer service solution that empowers brands and organizations to deliver consistent care anytime, anywhere through a powerful combination of knowledge management, self-service and multi-channel engagement.
Discover the Parature Advantage. Parature is a cloud-based customer service solution that empowers brands and organizations to deliver consistent care anytime, anywhere through a powerful combination of knowledge management, self-service and multi-channel engagement.
Parature. Parature provides on-demand customer service software, making it possible for any business to leverage the Internet to provide outstanding customer service and online support. Parature provides an efficient way to serve, support, retain, engage with and maximize the value of every customer.