For savings account ask the bank teller if your transit number was not written on your bank book. Institution number for most banks in Canada in link below. Missing is TD Bank (not Canada Trust) which is #004. Old TD CANADA TRUST cheques will have #509 as institution number. http://www.cdnpay.ca/membership/member.a... Canada: Look at the bottom of your cheque corresponding to your bank account (if it is a chequing account). The first three digits on the bottom left correspond to the cheque number on the top right. The next five digits at the bottom is your transit number.
Bank numbers such as Bank Identifier Code (BIC), Bank Identification Number (BIN), and Routing transit number (RTN) categorizes a bank for machine-aided sorting of checks and so forth. The code contains the check routing and funds availability and transit number and bank identifier. The first two numbers tell the reserve bank, the second two tell its branch and check-clearing information, the next four is the paying bank's number, and the ninth digit is for error control.
An ABA number (also known as routing number or routing transfer number) is a sequence of nine numeric characters used by banks to identify specific financial institutions within the United States. 
Bank routing number or routing transit number (RTN) is a nine digit number used to identify a financial institution in a transaction. Most common types of transaction being ACH and wire transfers. Some banks and credit unions may have multiple routing numbers serving different purposes, geographical regions or branches. Enter a name of a bank to find it on the Internet. Banks often publish routing numbers on their websites. For some banks you would need to login into online banking to find correct routing number. If you are still not sure which routing number to use contact your bank directly.
The American Bank Association (ABA) routing/transit number and your Chase account number can be obtained from a voided check. Chase Liquid ® customers can find their account and routing numbers by logging into Chase.com, choosing the Customer Center tab, and then the Set up direct deposit link. 
Routing numbers are printed on the bottom of a check. They can also be found on online banking sites of the financial institution. Find Routing Number on Your Check. Enter a name of a bank to find it on the Internet. Banks often publish routing numbers on their websites. For some banks you would need to login into online banking to find correct routing number. If you are still not sure which routing number to use contact your bank directly. You can call your bank using the phone number listed on your debit card or send a message through online banking system
This number identifies the financial institution upon which a payment is drawn. Routing numbers are sometimes referred to as check routing numbers, ABA numbers, or routing transit numbers (RTN). Routing numbers may differ depending on where your account was opened and the type of transaction made. 
The easiest way to find your routing number is to look at your checks. It's easy to find Chase's ABA/routing number and your account number. They're printed across the bottom of your checks. Or if you prefer, call 1-800-242-7338 and we can tell you your ABA/routing number. 
The clearing-bank code is also called the routing/transit number and is similar to the fractional routing/transit number also on the check. In the fraction, the institution identifier is part of the numerator. The check's bank is after the first hyphen in the numerator and its federal bank is in the denominator. The code contains the check routing and funds availability and transit number and bank identifier. The first two numbers tell the reserve bank, the second two tell its branch and check-clearing information, the next four is the paying bank's number, and the ninth digit is for error control.
An ABA routing transit number (ABA RTN) is a nine digit code, used in the United States, which appears on the bottom of negotiable instruments such as checks to identify the financial institution on which it was drawn. The first two digits of the nine digit RTN must be in the ranges 00 through 12, 21 through 32, 61 through 72, or 80. The digits are assigned as follows: 1  00 is used by the United States Government. 2  01 through 12 are the normal routing numbers, and correspond to the 12 Federal Reserve Banks.