Table Tennis Table. If you play at a club, they will supply the tables for you-after all, you'd hardly want to be bringing your own each time you play! You may want to purchase your own ping-pong table for use at home, in which case there are a number of factors to consider. 
You see, in order to run a high-level table tennis event successfully, you'll need referees, deputy and/or assistant referees, competition managers, umpires, assistant umpires, timekeepers, stroke counters, racket testers, technical officers and jury members. by courtesy of the ITTF. Additionally, you'll need lots of other officials for tasks such as; preparing the table tennis courts; transporting the players; liaising with the media etc. However, in this article, I'll only be focusing on referees and umpires. ^ Top of page ^.
Table Tennis Shoes-What to Look For. 1  Comfort-if anything is a dealbreaker, comfort is probably it. 2  Despite all of a shoe's other good qualities, if they aren't comfortable to play in, then they probably aren't the right shoe for you. 1 Shock Absorption-this is one factor that can really vary a great deal between ping-pong shoes. 2  Since most table tennis shoes are designed to be as light as possible, the amount of shock absorbing material sometimes get sacrificed to lighten the load.
Tennis players can wear just about anything. Female tennis clothes are sometimes full short dresses. They are usually made out of material that absorbs sweat easily. Dresses … and skirts will generally have built in spandex shorts underneath where they keep balls. The spandex shorts make up for the lack of pockets. Sometimes shirts are collared. Tops are often made out of the same material as the bottom to keep players dry. Male tennis plays wear shorts with pockets to keep their tennis balls in. Their shirts may also be short sleeved or sleeveless. They will also often be made out of an absorbent material.
A. I do not wear gloves on a tennis court, if that is what you are asking. Cliff Drysdale, the famous ESPN commentator, used to wear a golf-style glove when he played in the early 1970’s. He signed a contract for a few thousand dollars to endorse this “tennis glove,” otherwise I suspect that he would NOT have worn it. 
What clothing do you wear when you play table tennis? Do you wear mostly brand name stuff, or just a few brand name items, or just casual wear? For competition you may need to wear certain clothing, but I'm referring to other times like practice, casual play or even tournament. I typically wear shirts from Nike, Adidas or Under Armour. All with the moisture wicking technology, because I sweat like crazy. But nothing that's table tennis clothing. Most of it is considered training clothing or
If you want to wear clothing with explicit language, save it for table tennis in your basement – offensive outfits are not appropriate for pingpong games in public spaces. Finally, pick a comfortable pair of sneakers versus wearing sandals or going barefoot. Depending on the type of table tennis – recreational or professional – you play, appropriate dress differs. However, one thing remains constant – wear comfortable clothing to better enjoy the game.
The pros know that they will more than likely use their table tennis bats for as little as one match. However, the majority of table tennis players, who are not professionals, do the same thing. The best way to properly take care of your table tennis bats is to simply use water and a sponge. Dust also draws from their hands and end up on the table tennis bat. Wiping your hand across the face of your table tennis bat is the worst thing you can do. Many times, during tournament play o a match, pros will do this. However, they only do this because they are sponsored by a company or more.
How often do you replace your match play table tennis rubbers for new ones-and by this I mean repeat purchases of the same rubber, not changes due to the EJ virus, 2. What is the name of the table tennis rubber, 3. How often do you replace your match play table tennis rubbers for new ones-and by this I mean repeat purchases of the same rubber, not changes due to the EJ virus. At least twice in a league season (Sep-Apr), using the xmas break to 'break in' the new rubber.