And sugar in the urine is not indicative of the actual blood glucose level at time of a urine test, but rather of blood glucose levels prior to the time of sampling. . . perhaps in the early AM hours when blood glucose levels tend to rise in people who have Pre-Diabetes, or Diabetes. 
Sugar (glucose) is usually present in the urine at very low levels or not at all. Abnormally high amounts of sugar in the urine, known as glycosuria, are usually the result of high blood sugar levels. High blood sugar usually occurs in diabetes, especially when untreated. Normally, when blood is filtered in the kidneys, some sugar remains in the fluid that will later become urine. 
26 Followers. A. The kidneys usually don't spill glucose (sugar) in the urine unless you have high blood sugar at a level of 200 mg/dL or higher. The American Diabetic Associaiton (ADA) does not recommend that people with diabetes do routine urine glucose testing if you are able to do fingerstick blood glucose testing
The kidneys perform the function of filtering the blood and eliminating the unwanted waster from the body. At the time of this process, some quantity of sugar is present in the liquid that later becomes urine. Some of the common causes of sugar in urine are discussed below: 1  The most common cause is the presence of diabetes, which is a condition that affects the capability of the body to use the sugar in the body to make energy. 2  High levels of blood sugar or hyperglycemia, particularly when the condition is left untreated.
Well it means that your body is not using your sugar in your body and the body builds up the sugar levels, and is trying to get rid of the extra sugar by urinating it out, you might by going to the bathroom more than normal when your sugar levels are high, i have diabetes and i go through the same thing. You can not tell if there is sugar in the urine by odor, color or taste (yuck !) First, it can mean that your kidneys are failing to filter out the sugar and they are failing. Really bad news.
While a basic urinalysis gives a very crude estimate of whether there is sugar in the urine or not, more advanced laboratory testing can measure the exact amount of glucose in the urine. Diabetes, with increased blood sugar, is a common cause of sugar in the urine. However, other conditions can cause this finding on urinalysis. 
It does not mean much of anything. Prior to glucometers diabetics checked their urine for glucose (sugar) and ketones. Unfortunately there is no correlation between blood glucose and urine glucose. You may have 4+ glucose in your urine with a blood glucose of 100. You can not tell if there is sugar in the urine by odor, color or taste (yuck !) First, it can mean that your kidneys are failing to filter out the sugar and they are failing. Really bad news.
Ketone is a chemical produced when there is a shortage of insulin in the blood and the body breaks down body fat for energy. Ketones in the urine is a sign that your body is using fat for energy instead of using glucose because not enough insulin is available to use glucose for energy.
Glucose in urine. When abnormal values of glucose are found during a urine test, further investigation is required to ascertain your true health status. Using a urine test is a quick and inexpensive way to check for glucose in your urine, and is one of our test kit products that can be done in the privacy of your home. 