1 At the compressor, the low pressure gas is changed to high pressure gas. 2  This pressure buildup can only be accomplished by having a restriction in the high pressure side of the system. 3  This is a small valve located in the expansion valve. The purpose of the compressor is to circulate the refrigerant in the system under pressure, this concentrates the heat it contains. 1 
An air compressor is a device that converts power (using an electric motor, diesel or gasoline engine, etc.) into potential energy stored in pressurized air (i.e., compressed air). By one of several methods, an air compressor forces more and more air into a storage tank, increasing the pressure. 
Function: The compressor is the heart of the AC (Air Conditioning) system. An AC compressor is driven by a belt connected to the engine crankshaft pulley. The compressor shaft is connected to the magnetic clutch pulley(AC clutch). This magnetic clutch pulley in operated by the AC control. 
Air Conditioner Compressor, A Troubleshooting Guide... The air conditioner compressor is the heart of your cooling system. It is the most commonly misdiagnosed component in the system. At least one third of the time that the unit is said to have a bad compressor, the compressor is in fact not the problem. The typical air conditioning service call would cost over $100. 
Air Conditioner Compressor. Air conditioner compressor is used to remove the heat-laden vapor refrigerant from the evaporator of the air conditioning systems. In layman term, the compressor compresses or squeezes the vapor into a smaller volume at high temperature. The hermetic compressor has a motor which is sealed inside a housing with the compressor, hence a crankshaft seal is not required. The motor rotor is located either at the top or bottom of the unit. There are basically 5 types of air conditioner compressor that are commonly used in the HVAC industry: 1  Reciprocating. 2  Scroll.
An inverter in an air conditioner is used to control the speed of the compressor motor to drive variable refrigerant flow in an air conditioning system to regulate the conditioned-space temperature. 
A heat pump is an air conditioner that contains a valve that lets it switch between air conditioner and heater.. When the valve is switched one way, the heat pump acts like an air conditioner, and when it is switched the other way it reverses the flow of the liquid inside the heat pump and acts like a heater. The machine has three main parts. They are a compressor, a condenser and an evaporator. The compressor and condenser are usually located on the outside air portion of the air conditioner. The evaporator is located on the inside the house, sometimes as part of a furnace.
An air conditioner's compressor drives the heat-transfer process that cools rooms. An air conditioner works by transforming a refrigerant compound from a gas to a liquid and back again in a continuous cycle. 
Compressor. The purpose of the compressor is to circulate the refrigerant in the system under pressure, this concentrates the heat it contains. 1  At the compressor, the low pressure gas is changed to high pressure gas. 2  This pressure buildup can only be accomplished by having a restriction in the high pressure side of the system