I have a 4 mm left UVJ stone for about a year. It started with several acute and extremely painful colics, but since then symptoms became muted. Once diagnosed, I started flomax and dramatically increased my fluid intake. I didn t have any symptoms for the rest of last summer. 
Definitions: 1. Abbreviation for ureterovesical junction. The definition information for UVJ is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. Stedman's, part of Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, provides a comprehensive line of health-science publications for healthcare professionals and medical students.
ureterovesical junction (UVJ), the site of entry of the ureter into the bladder, with an oblique angulation through the detrusor to avoid reflux. pertaining to a ureter and the bladder. ureterovesical junction. junction of the ureter with the urinary bladder; the ureter runs for a short distance in the wall of the bladder, providing a valvular action preventing reflux of urine up the ureter.
The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved. 
ureterovesical. pertaining to a ureter and the bladder. ureterovesical junction. junction of the ureter with the urinary bladder; the ureter runs for a short distance in the wall of the bladder, providing a valvular action preventing reflux of urine up the ureter.
Forums & Message Boards. 1  Ask or answer a question at the Boards 2  : I cannot get a diagnosis. 3  Tell us your medical story. 4  Share your misdiagnosis story. 5  What is the best treatment for my condition? 6  See all the Boards. 
ULTRASOUND. 1  Usually unilateral (rarely bilateral). 2  Hydronephrosis with a dilated ureter seen as a serpiginous anechoic cystic structure in the abdomen and retrovesical space (2). 3  The ureter is retroperitoneal, and therefore appears as a fluid-filled structure adjacent to the fetal spine when dilated. 
Welcome to the site of Una Voce Japan ! Una Voce Japan (UVJ) aims at safeguarding the rich liturgical heritage of the Catholic Church and promoting its use in the sacramental life of the Church in J apan. We are in full obedience to the Magisterium of the Church and to the local ordinaries.
Ureterovesical junction (UVJ) obstruction refers to a blockage to this area. The obstruction impedes the flow of urine down to the bladder, causing the urine to back up into and dilate the ureters and kidney (megaureter and hydronephrosis). Unilateral UVJ obstruction is the second most common prenatally detected obstructive disease, often picked up on maternal ultrasounds during pregnancy. 
Effect of renal pelvic distension on the ureteropelvic and ureterovesical junctions and the urinary bladder: the renal pelvivesical reflex. Shafik A(1). Author information: (1)Department of Surgery and Experimental Research, Faculty of Medicine, Cairo University, Egypt. 