In an average healthy adult, the volume of blood is about one-eleventh of the body weight. Most sources state the volume of blood in an average human adult, who is betwe … en 150 to 160 pounds, as between 4.7 and 5 liters, although the more recent sources state the volume of blood in an average adult as 4.7 liters. The baby can have either blood type, or a combination. For example, if the mother is A-and the father is B-, the baby could be A-, B-or AB-. It is important if you … are Rh- (O-, A-, etc) and the father is Rh+ (O+, A+, etc) that you get prenatal care.
The volume of blood in a newborn baby depends on weight. Newborns average 80 ml per kg. For example, an 8-lb. newborn's blood volume would equal 290 ml of total blood volume, which equals 9.8 fluid... Read More ». Most sources state the volume of blood in an average human adult, who is between 150 to 160 pounds, as bet... Read More ». http://wiki.answers.com/Q/As_a_baby_how_much_blood_do_you_have.
Sources state that an 80-pound child had about half that amount, and an 8-pound infant has about 8.5 ounces. People who live at high altitudes, where the air contains less oxygen, may have up to 1.9 liters more blood than people who live in low altitude regions. The baby can have either blood type, or a combination. For example, if the mother is A-and the father is B-, the baby could be A-, B-or AB-. It is important if you … are Rh- (O-, A-, etc) and the father is Rh+ (O+, A+, etc) that you get prenatal care.
For information about the loss of a baby after 20 weeks of pregnancy but before the baby is born, see the topic Stillbirth. A miscarriage is the loss of a pregnancy during the first 20 weeks. It is usually your body's way of ending a pregnancy that has had a bad start. The loss of a pregnancy can be very hard to accept. 
Babies do not 'get' blood from their mothers. There is a separation between the mother's blood and the baby's blood. Mixing of parental and fetus' blood is a potentially a fat … al condition if the blood types are not the same. Fatal for the baby, for sure, and potentially for the mother as well. The baby can have either blood type, or a combination. For example, if the mother is A-and the father is B-, the baby could be A-, B-or AB-. It is important if you … are Rh- (O-, A-, etc) and the father is Rh+ (O+, A+, etc) that you get prenatal care.
Home As a baby how much blood do you have. In an average healthy adult, the volume of blood is about one-eleventh of the body weight. Most sources state the volume of blood in an average human adult, who is between 150 to 160 pounds, as bet... Read More ». http://wiki.answers.com/Q/As_a_baby_how_much_blood_do_you_have.
Blood draws in infants and children should not exceed 5% of their total blood volume in any 24 hour period, unless medically necessary. This is a generous upper limit. Ideally it should be less than 3% of the total blood volume, and where possible, micro-sampling techniques to reduce the amount further are preferred. Blood draws in infants and children should not exceed 10% of the total blood volume in any one-month period, unless medically necessary. The total blood volume can be estimated from the age and weight of the child. As a rough estimate, for pre-term babies, the amount of blood is about 90 ml per kilogram of body weight. For term newborns, it is about 80 ml per kg. For older babies, 1 to 12 months of age, estimate 75 ml per kg
Scientists estimate the volume of blood in a human body to be approximately 7 percent of body weight. An average adult body with a weight of 150 to 180 pounds will contain approximately 4.7 to 5.5 liters (1.2 to 1.5 gallons) of blood. An average child with a body weight of 80 pounds will have approximately half the amount of blood as an adult. Blood carries out many critical functions in the body. The amount of blood in a human body varies, depending on factors such as age, sex, overall health and even where a person lives. For example, men tend to have more blood than women of comparable size and weight.