Create a free account to save it. Advertisement Upgrade to remove ads. -What makes up a virus-Steps of viral lifecycle (Bacteriophage and animal viruses) -Different types of nucleic acids for genome and how they are replicated-A little about H1N1 pandemic of 1918.   .
Viruses, however, parasitize essentially all biomolecular aspects of life. That is, they depend on the host cell for the raw materials and energy necessary for nucleic acid synthesis, protein synthesis, processing and transport, and all other biochemical activities that allow the virus to multiply and spread.
A virus is a microscopic organism that can replicate only inside the cells of a host organism. Most viruses are so tiny they are only observable with at least a conventional optical microscope.
Advertisement Upgrade to remove ads. -What makes up a virus-Steps of viral lifecycle (Bacteriophage and animal viruses) -Different types of nucleic acids for genome and how they are replicated-A little about H1N1 pandemic of 1918.   .
In general, each type of virus tends to infect only a certain type of cell in the body. (For example, the viruses that cause the common cold only infect the cells lining the nose and throat.). Several viruses are linked with cancer in humans.
Virus is a microscopic organism that lives in a cell of another living thing. Although viruses are extremely small and simple, they are a major cause of disease. Some viruses infect human beings with such diseases as measles, influenza, and the common cold.
This makes it really easy to tell the virus EXACTLY what you want to do. It is very easy write a virus in this language. Viruses are made as to change your hard drive data, use lots of CPU processing space (to slow your computer like mad), and to change data around to corrupt your computer.
Photo by: Irochka. A virus is a small, infectious agent that is made up of a core of genetic material surrounded by a shell of protein. The genetic material (which is responsible for carrying forward hereditary traits from parent cells to offspring) may be either deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) or ribonucleic acid (RNA).