You can try sponging with rubbing alcohol and then laundering, or if the stain is in a viable location, soak the area (cuff, shirt sleeve, etc.) in a cup or dish of milk for several hours, then launder. , you may be able to remove most of it by using hairspray or rubbing alcohol. Put a small amount on a cloth and dab the spot The ink will come off on the wet cloth, at which time you should blot with a clean piece of dry cloth. Repeat this process of wet blot, dry blot, until you have gotten all the ink you can. For magic marker stains try the following remedies. Always blot, not rub, any stain and have a clean, white absorbent cloth to put under the garment. Also, lay the stain side (usually the outside) against the cloth.
1. Saturate the stain with an alcohol-based hair spray 2. Place some paper towels underneath the garment and dab (don’t rub) it dry with paper towels. The ink should start wicking into the towels. 3. Repeat the last two steps until the stain is gone, or it is no longer fading. 4. If the ink stain persists, repeat steps 1 and 2 using an alcohol-based nail polish remover in place of the hairspray. 5. If the ink stain still persists, soak the garment overnight in whole-fat milk, then launder normally. Don’t put it in the dryer until the stain is gone, or you’ll make it harder to remove. If after completing the above steps you still have ugly ink stains, bring the garment to your local dry cleaners. Source(s): http://www.howtogetridofstuff.com/stain-...
Soak a plain white cloth in rubbing alcohol, and dab the alcohol onto the stain. Apply alcohol until the stain is saturated. Let the alcohol stand for at least thirty minutes so that it has time to work on the stain. Rinse thoroughly with cold water. 
Moisten the stain lightly with the alcohol or hairspray. Place white paper towels beneath the stained area. Place the article face down, and start working from the back of the fabric, behind the stain, which will help to put the stain out and not force the permanent marker ink stain further into your stained clothing. For magic marker stains try the following remedies. Always blot, not rub, any stain and have a clean, white absorbent cloth to put under the garment. Also, lay the stain side (usually the outside) against the cloth.
This is a sure way to permanently set the stain. For magic marker stains try the following remedies. Always blot, not rub, any stain and have a clean, white absorbent cloth to put under the garment. Also, lay the stain side (usually the outside) against the cloth.
1 Rubbing alcohol Your household rubbing alcohol is another effective way to remove marker stains. 2  Place the stain face down on top of a piece of paper towel. 3  Dip a cloth in rubbing alcohol and dab at the stain. 4  You should see the ink transfer to the paper towel underneath the stain. 
2. Using a clean white cloth, sponge the stain with the detergent/vinegar solution, blotting frequently with a dry cloth until the stain disappears. 3. Flush with clear water. 4. Blot until the liquid is absorbed. 5. If the stain remains, sponge the stain with rubbing alcohol. 2. Sponge rubbing alcohol into the area around the stain, and then apply it directly to the stain. 3. Continue sponging the stain with alcohol, frequently changing the paper towels underneath, transferring as much ink as possible to the paper towels. 4. Rinse thoroughly. 5.
Here are some tips that you can use to remove permanent marker stains on clothes: 1  Bleach it out. 2  If you stain a white shirt, you can remove the stains with bleach. 3  Make sure that you're using bleach only on white articles of clothing. 4  Use super-strength cleansers. 1 Use small, circular motions to remove the permanent marker stains. 2  Allow the acetone to dry out. 3  You may notice some “ghost” marks left by the permanent marker. 4  To remove these stains, spray some window cleanser onto another clean rag (not directly on the white board).
2. Using a clean white cloth, sponge the stain with the detergent/vinegar solution. Leave it on the stain for at least 30 minutes, blotting every five minutes with a clean white cloth and more solution. 3. Flush with cool water. 4. Blot until the liquid is absorbed. 5. Sponge the stain with rubbing alcohol. 2. Sponge rubbing alcohol into the area around the stain, and then apply it directly to the stain. 3. Continue sponging the stain with alcohol, frequently changing the paper towels underneath, transferring as much ink as possible to the paper towels. 4. Rinse thoroughly. 5.
1. Place the stain face down on clean paper towels. 2. Sponge rubbing alcohol into the area around the stain, and then apply it directly to the stain. 3. Continue sponging the stain with alcohol, frequently changing the paper towels underneath, transferring as much ink as possible to the paper towels. 4. Rinse thoroughly. 5.