Home › Dream › Tornado. To be caught in a tornado means that you are struggling against your emotions. Just like the impact of the tornado you have being swept along in life, with little self-control. To see a tornado indicates an important relationship or challenge is on the horizon. Tornadoes are a common and complex dream symbol. The tornado demonstrates emotions in your life, and the swirl of the vortex is related to your inner emotions. If in your dream you were trying to chase the tornadoes, then someone in your life is trying to display power over you.
Clouds. To see white, fair weather clouds represents inner peace and harmony. It could mean an issue in your waking life is nearly resolved. To dream of walking on a cloud signifies you have a sense of control over a situation and are feeling on top of things.. nolimitpictures/E+/Getty Images. To play in the snow points to a time of enjoyment and relaxation. It is also a sign that you are (or need to be) taking advantage of an opportunity that's arising. To find something in the snow means that you're exploring and tapping into your unused potential and hidden talents and abilities.
Tornado. A dream in which a giant tornado destroys everything in its path is an awful nightmare. Winds of any kind in a dream represent change. The dream is likely a response or a forewarning of a big change, destroying your sense of security, plans, goals, and the hopes you had for the immediate future. Events such as losing your house to foreclosure, job loss or a forced relocation all are catastrophic changes that could elicit a tornado dream.
Severe weather, earth shifts and cosmic events in dreams aren't necessarily a forewarning of natural disasters to come. No need to run and hide or scream out, The sky is falling, like Chicken Little. In fact, most of these dreams are merely responses to events in the dreamer's personal life. The dream is likely a response or a forewarning of a big change, destroying your sense of security, plans, goals, and the hopes you had for the immediate future. Events such as losing your house to foreclosure, job loss or a forced relocation all are catastrophic changes that could elicit a tornado dream.
When a severe thunderstorm, tornado or flash flood watch is in effect, it means you should watch the sky for signs of dangerous weather. Sometimes a severe thunderstorm, a tornado or a flash flood happens so quickly that warnings can't be issued in time. The National Weather Service uses the words watches and warnings to alert you to potentially dangerous weather. Knowing the difference between the two can be a life saver. Weather watches. A watch means conditions are right for dangerous weather.
A watch does not necessarily mean that severe weather is actually occurring, only that atmospheric conditions have created a significant risk for severe weather to occur. If severe weather actually does occur, a severe thunderstorm warning or tornado warning will be issued, and urgent action should be taken immediately. 
You are here. Home › Dream › Weather. Weather phenomena occur very often in dreams. Whether they are just a decoration or they kick in, elements of weather carry a distinct message. If in the real life a downpour is just a weather phenomenon that breaks your good mood, in your dream it foretells good luck. And when you dream of fog, it is a sign that you should expect a calm and peaceful period. In your dream you may have... 1  Experienced bad weather. 2  Experienced good weather. 3  Made or seen the weather forecast. 4  Encountered rain or fog.
A warning means that the dangerous weather is threatening the area. For severe thunderstorms, tornadoes and flash floods, a warning means the event is occurring. Since tornadoes are small-a half-mile wide tornado is considered huge-a tornado will miss many more buildings that it hits in the area warned. The National Weather Service uses the words watches and warnings to alert you to potentially dangerous weather. Knowing the difference between the two can be a life saver. Weather watches. A watch means conditions are right for dangerous weather.
This is issued by the National Weather Service when conditions are favorable for the development of severe thunderstorms in and close to the watch area. A severe thunderstorm by definition is a thunderstorm that produces one inch hail or larger in diameter and/or winds equal or exceed 58 miles an hour. The size of the watch can vary depending on the weather situation. They are usually issued for a duration of 4 to 8 hours. This is issued by the National Weather Service when conditions are favorable for the development of tornadoes in and close to the watch area. Their size