Advanced Search. Welcome to Erfurt-Weimar Airport. Your guide to airport information services at Erfurt-Weimar Airport-We offer information on hotels, rental cars, airport facilities, parking, transportation, maps, and other services for your arrival to Erfurt-Weimar Airport. Airport Data: International, Heliport, Erfurt 5km (3miles), Position 50°58´50N, 010°57´49E, Elevation 1m (3ft), Operating hours 06:00-22:00 and on request, 2 Passenger Terminals, 1 Cargo Terminal, 33 Aircraft Stands.
The airport is located 5 km (3.1 mi) west of Erfurt city center and is mainly used for seasonal charter flights to European leisure destinations. However, the city will become one of Germany's most important long distance railway hubs by 2017, when the newly constructed Munich-Berlin high-speed line will meet with the Frankfurt-Dresden line at Erfurt main station.
What is the closest airport to Erfurt in Thueringen, Thüringen? Germany the closest international and-non international airports To erfurt In, Thueringen thüringen germany are listed below in order of. increasing distance The closest international and non-international airports to Erfurt in Thueringen, Thüringen germany are listed below in order of increasing. distance
Bellow is the list of some of the major cities with their nearest airport (Name,IATA and ICAO airport codes if available) in Germany for your quick reference. Click the city link to display nearest 10 airports around the city with distances on map. State/Province level city search: To search the nearest to city airport in Germany, start typing the name of the city/town/village/place name for which you want to search the nearest Germany airport. This will return the list of matching city / town / village / place names in Germany.
Nearest major airport to Erfurt, Germany: The closest major airport to Erfurt, Germany is Erfurt Airport (ERF / EDDE). This airport is 8 km from the center of Erfurt, Germany. If you're looking for international flights to ERF, check the airlines that fly to ERF. Search for direct flights from your hometown and find hotels near Erfurt, Germany, or scroll down for more international airports or domestic airports. 
From Fort Wayne to Anywhere in the World. The Fort Wayne-Allen County Airport Authority owns and operates Fort Wayne International Airport (FWA) and Smith Field Airport (SMD), both located in Fort Wayne, Indiana. The Airport Authority is committed to taking everything at FWA and SMD to a Whole New Altitude. 1  Chicago (O'Hare). 2  Dallas-Fort Worth. 3  Tampa-St. 
Directly next to Erfurt-Weimar Airport the modern Airport Hotel gives travellers and visitors of the city the opportunity for relaxing accomodation. With the motto Friendly, competent, familiar, you will be looked after at your comfort. 
Tokyo International. Tokyo, Japan. Tokyo International Airport is the main commercial airport in Tokyo, Japan, and is located about 9 miles (14km) south of Tokyo Station in Ōta, National Capital Region. The airport is known….
Erfurt Airport in 1979. The airport's name was changed from Erfurt Airport in 2011, it was felt that from a marketing point of view the addition of Weimar to the name would better sell the area due to its historic importance. Despite its importance as a state capital and the central location within Germany, Erfurt features no domestic flights. The only route to Munich Airport offered by Cirrus Airlines ceased by March 2012. However, the city will become one of Germany's most important long distance railway hubs by 2017, when the newly constructed Munich-Berlin high-speed line will meet with the Frankfurt-Dresden line at Erfurt main station.