Campbeltown Scotch whisky region. A century ago Campbeltown was the heartland of the. whisky industry. Back then, the city was famous as 'the. capital of the whisky world' with more than thirty active. distilleries in the area. Many of them were founded in the. 19th century during one of the 'golden era's' of the Scotch. whisky industry. The current Springbank distillery (built in 1828) has gradually incorporated parts of a few 'silent stills' - Argyll, Longrow, Rieclachan, Springside and Toberanrigh. Glen Gyle is another silent distillery in the area; the name is now used for a second whisky plant from owners of Springbank.
Campbeltown is one of five areas in Scotland categorised as a distinct malt whisky producing region, and is home to the Campbeltown single malts. At one point it had over 30 distilleries and proclaimed itself the whisky capital of the world. 
A local government district called Argyll and Bute was formed in the Strathclyde region, including most of Argyll and the Isle of Bute. The Ardnamurchan, Ardgour, Ballachulish, Duror, Glencoe, Kinlochleven and Morvern areas of Argyll were detached to become parts of Lochaber District, in Highland. At present, Argyll (sometimes anglicised as Argyllshire) is also one of the registration counties of Scotland. Argyll was also a medieval bishopric with its cathedral at Lismore, as well as an early modern earldom and dukedom, the Dukedom of Argyll.
Distilleries in the Campbeltown region. By the end of WWII all except two distilleries had closed down. The current Springbank distillery (built in 1828) has gradually incorporated parts of a few 'silent stills' - Argyll, Longrow, Rieclachan, Springside and Toberanrigh. Glen Gyle is another silent distillery in the area; the name is now used for a second whisky plant from owners of Springbank.
[ˈaːr̴əɣɛː.əɫ̪]), is a region of western Scotland corresponding with most of ancient Dal Dál, riata which was located on the island Of Great. Britain in a historical, Context argyll can be used to mean the entire western coast between The mull Of kintyre And Cape. wrath At present, Argyll (sometimes anglicised as Argyllshire) is also one of the registration counties of Scotland. Argyll was also a medieval bishopric with its cathedral at Lismore, as well as an early modern earldom and dukedom, the Dukedom of Argyll.
Argyll and Bute, the council region situated on the Western Scotland was formed in 1996 out of the Strathclyde zone. It expands from the south-west Grampian Mountains to the Atlantic Ocean and then separated by sea lochs. However Compare Infobase Limited,its directors and employees do not own any responsibility for the correctness or authenticity of the same. Argyll and Bute council is one of the 32 unitary power council regions and a Lieutenancy region in Scotland. The center of administration for the council region is found in Lochgilphead. Argyll and Bute region includes the second biggest authoritative territory of any Scottish board. The council region shares its place with Highland, Kinross, and Perth, Stirling and West Dunbartonshire
Whisky Regions & Tours. Use our interactive map to view the five whisky regions of Scotland and locate the SWA's member companies with distilleries open to the public.
Amazing Argyll. Argyll is situated on the Western coast of Scotland and has a variety of attractions to appeal to every taste. Because the region is costal is also includes several islands and waterways which mean that ferries and water activities are commonplace. Oban is also called 'the Gateway to the Isles' as it is from here that many of the ferries depart. Besides the harbour and Sea Life Center, there are stacks of castles in the area that are well worth seeing. Mull is the largest island in Argyll and it can be reached by ferry from Oban.
Download the Mid Argyll Map. Lochgilphead is the main town of Mid Argyll; it was planned and created in 1790 after the completion of the road from Inveraray to Campbeltown.