Causes of UTI. Escherichia coli (E. coli) causes about 80 percent of urinary tract infections (UTIs) in adults. These bacteria are normally present in the colon and may enter the urethral opening from the skin around the anus and genitals. In infants, bacteria from soiled diapers can enter the urethra and cause UTI. E. coli may also enter the urethral opening when young girls do not wipe from front to back after a bowel movement.
1 The bacteria that cause kidney infections (pyelonephritis) are generally the same bacteria that cause cystitis. 2  There is some evidence, however, the E. coli strains in pyelonephritis are more virulent (able to spread and cause illness). The bacterial strains that cause UTIs include: 1  Escherichia (E.) coli is responsible for most uncomplicated cystitis cases in women, especially in younger women.
The most common UTIs occur mainly in women and affect the bladder and urethra. 1  Infection of the bladder (cystitis). 2  This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 3  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible. 1 This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 2  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible. 3  Sexual intercourse may lead to cystitis, but you don't have to be sexually active to develop it.
Bacterial cystitis. UTIs typically occur when bacteria outside the body enter the urinary tract through the urethra and begin to multiply. Most cases of cystitis are caused by a type of Escherichia coli (E. coli) bacteria. Bacterial bladder infections may occur in women as a result of sexual intercourse. But even sexually inactive girls and women are susceptible to lower urinary tract infections because the female genital area often harbors bacteria that can cause cystitis. 
Bacterial UTI Causes. In most cases, the causes of a UTI involve a type of bacteria, Escherichia coli (E. coli), which normally lives in the colon. In many cases, bacteria first travel to the urethra. When bacteria multiply, a UTI can occur. A UTI that is limited to the urethra is called urethritis. If bacteria move to the bladder and multiply, a bladder infection, called cystitis, results. If the infection is not treated promptly, bacteria may then travel further up the ureters to multiply and infect the kidneys.
1 Infection of the urethra (urethritis). 2  This type of UTI can occur when GI bacteria spread from the anus to the urethra. 3  Also, because the female urethra is close to the vagina, sexually transmitted infections, such as herpes, gonorrhea, chlamydia and mycoplasma, can cause urethritis. 1 This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 2  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible. 3  Sexual intercourse may lead to cystitis, but you don't have to be sexually active to develop it.
Urinary Tract Infections (UTIs). Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are a common type of infection caused by bacteria (most often E. coli) that travel up the urethra to the bladder. A bladder infection is called cystitis. If bacterial infection spreads to the kidneys and ureters, the condition is called pyelonephritis. In most cases, urinary tract infections are annoyances that cause urinary discomfort. However, if left untreated, UTIs can develop into very serious and potentially life-threatening kidney infections (pyelonephritis) that can permanently scar or damage the kidneys.
1 Infection of the bladder (cystitis). 2  This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 3  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible. 4  Sexual intercourse may lead to cystitis, but you don't have to be sexually active to develop it. 1 This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 2  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible. 3  Sexual intercourse may lead to cystitis, but you don't have to be sexually active to develop it.