By the way, conscientious breeders never sell their cats before 2 months; the ideal age is 3 months. This gives the kitten the chance to ge properly socialized. Lola answered on 9/11/08. 
I sold kittens at twelve weeks because that's what everyone else seemed to be doing. I didn't really know why.. She relented and let one of the kittens go to its new home at seven weeks of age. The kitten was returned at ten weeks, weighing less than it had when it had gone to its new home three weeks before. 
I was wondering what the youngest week-age a kitten can be adopted out from its mother. I've heard anywhere from 6-8 weeks, to 10-12 weeks. It's been a LONG time since we had any new-born kittens in the family (1993). I dont know how old Chassis was when we adopted her from the vet. 
Some states have laws stating that kittens have to be at least 8 weeks old. Licensed breeders sell purebred kittens at 12 weeks of age or older to ensure adequate social skills they learn from their mother and siblings. Some people, even prefer to wait until the kittens are 12 weeks old before separating them from their mother. Even though the mother cat weans them at around 4 weeks old, and they might seem physically ready to leave, emotionally, they are not.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Definitely not before they are 8 weeks old, but it would be better if you can wait until they are around 10 weeks old. Some people, even prefer to wait until the kittens are 12 weeks old before separating them from their mother. Even though the mother cat weans them at around 4 weeks old, and they might seem physically ready to leave, emotionally, they are not.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: You can start weaning them onto really soft, wet kitten food at about 3-4 weeks, but they need milk until about 6-8 weeks. 8 weeks is the earliest to separate them from their mother. Report Abuse. The mother will start to wean the kittens at about 4 weeks old. They need to stay with her till about 8 weeks to be sure they are weaned completely. Also, the mother teaches socilization and survival skills to her kittens so the longer they are with her, the better adjusted thay will grow up to be.
Report Abuse. Kittens SHOULD NOT leave their mother's until they are 9 weeks old-you shouldn't have let her get pregnant if you are not prepared to care for them properly. They have to be eating properly on their own before they can go to new homes, to sell them at under 9 weeks is not good for them or their mother. Report Abuse. In many places it is illegal to sell kittens (or puppies) before 8 weeks old. They really shouldn't be taken away from their mothers before that, but if you have a hardship case, they will be eating solid foods by 6 weeks and could go then.
Usually, breeders will not sell a kitten that is younger than twelve weeks, and in many jurisdictions, it is illegal to give away kittens younger than eight weeks old. Kittens generally reach sexual maturity around seven months of age. A cat reaches full adulthood around one year of age. 
A good way to assess the age of both young and juvenile kittens is to check the presence and development of her teeth. A kitten with no teeth is likely a newborn, younger than 2 weeks of age. If teeth are present, you can still estimate the age based on the number and characteristics of the teeth. 1  The first deciduous (baby) teeth should push through the gums around 2 or 3 weeks of age. 5. Check for adult teeth. If you find larger, adult teeth in a kitten, it is likely four months or older. The timing of the teeth may be a little less precise in an older kitten than it is in a very young kitten, but you should be able to get a good idea of the kitten’s age based on when her adult teeth come in.