Auditory Neuropathy. Auditory neuropathy is a hearing disorder where sound enters the inner ear normally but the transmission of signals from the inner ear to the brain is impaired. Auditory neuropathy affects patients ranging in age from infancy through adulthood, and can be congenital or acquired. It is unknown how many individuals have auditory neuropathy, but it is a relatively small percentage of the total number of people with hearing impairments.
Auditory neuropathy is a hearing disorder where the sending of signals to the brain from the inner ear is impaired. It can affect someone from birth, and it can also develop later on in life, in childhood or adulthood. Posted on: Wednesday, December 4, 2013 by james robins. Auditory neuropathy is a hearing disorder which causes people to experience hearing loss as well as difficulties distinguishing speech from other sound.
Auditory neuropathy: Introduction. Auditory neuropathy: A hearing disorder caused by impaired nerve signals from the inner part of the ear to the brain. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Auditory neuropathy is available below
Background. Auditory neuropathy/auditory dyssynchrony (AN/AD) is a condition that affects the neural processing of auditory stimuli. Patients with this disorder are able to respond to sounds appropriately, but their ability to decode speech and language is hindered. AN/AD has only recently been described. Auditory neuropathy/auditory dyssynchrony (AN/AD) is a condition that affects the neural processing of auditory stimuli. Patients with this disorder are able to respond to sounds appropriately, but their ability to decode speech and language is hinder
Also known as Auditory Neuropathy/Auditory Dys-synchrony (AN/AD) or Auditory Neuropathy Spectrum Disorder (ANSD). A neuropathy usually refers to a disease of the peripheral nerve or nerves, but the auditory nerve itself is not always affected in Auditory Neuropathy Spectrum Disorders. 
In some cases, auditory neuropathy spectrum disorder causes only mild hearing difficulties and is only a problem in noisy situations. In the majority of cases, however, it leads to significant hearing loss. Read More About Auditory Neuropathy Spectrum Disorder. Auditory neuropathy spectrum disorder (ANSD) is a broad term that describes any of a variety of problems involving “misfirings” of the auditory (hearing) nerve, or problems affecting the nerve’s connection with the cochlea (inner ear).
Introduction: An auditory neuropathy (AN)is a hearing loss caused by damage to the auditory portion of the eighth nerve, which is located between the inner ear (cochlea) and the brainstem. (see item 6 on figure to the right). Auditory neuropathy may also affect vestibular function (Sheykholeslami et al. 2000). Some of these patients may actually have a different disorder (loss of inner hair cells - -due to logical errors in the diagnostic process -- see below).