Minerals are not equivalent to rocks. A rock is either an aggregate of one or more minerals, or not composed of minerals at all. Rocks like limestone or quartzite are composed primarily of one mineral— calcite or aragonite in the case of limestone, and quartz in the latter case. Other rocks can be defined by relative abundances of key (essential) minerals; a granite is defined by proportions of quartz, alkali feldspar, and plagioclase feldspar. A mineral is a naturally occurring substance, representable by a chemical formula, that is usually solid and inorganic, and has a crystal structure. It is different from a rock, which can be an aggregate of minerals or non-minerals and does not have a specific chemical composition.
In calcite and quartz veins, pyrite is commonly associated with chalcopyrite and other sulfide minerals and metallic ores. Pyrite oxidizes to other iron sulfate minerals that in turn alter to limonite, so the presence of a weathered ‘rusty’ limonite layer may indicate the presence of pyrite in the underlying rock. Although it is not a significant rock-forming mineral, pyrite is very widespread and a common accessory mineral in many rock types. In igneous rocks, pyrite may be disseminated throughout the rock or concentrated in layers if the magma cooled slowly enough for crystals to settle out.
Calcite is the only common non-silicate rock forming mineral, being instead calcium carbonate. It has two refractive indices causing a significant double refraction effect-when a clear calcite crystal is placed on an image, a double image is observed; See the sample below. Calcite will fizz when dilute hydrochloric acid is placed on it. It may be fluorescent, phosphorescent, thermoluminescent and triboluminescent (see fluorite for definitions of these properties). Calcite is one of the most ubiquitous minerals, being an important rock forming mineral in sedimentary environments.
Halite /ˈhaelaɪt/ , ˈhælaɪt commonly known as rock, salt is a type of, salt the mineral form of sodium (Chloride Na). Cl halite forms isometric. Crystals the mineral is typically colorless or, white but may also be light, blue dark, blue, purple, pink, red, orange yellow or gray depending on the amount and type of. impurities Halite occurs in vast beds of sedimentary evaporite minerals that result from the drying up of enclosed lakes, playas, and seas. Salt beds may be hundreds of meters thick and underlie broad areas.
Halite forms isometric crystals. The mineral is typically colorless or white, but may also be light blue, dark blue, purple, pink, red, orange, yellow or gray depending on the amount and type of impurities. It commonly occurs with other evaporite deposit minerals such as several of the sulfates, halides, and borates. Halite occurs in vast beds of sedimentary evaporite minerals that result from the drying up of enclosed lakes, playas, and seas. Salt beds may be hundreds of meters thick and underlie broad areas.
Halite /ˈhaelaɪt/ , ˈhælaɪt commonly known as rock, salt is a type of, salt the mineral form of sodium (Chloride Na). Cl halite forms isometric. crystals Halite occurs in vast beds of sedimentary evaporite minerals that result from the drying up of enclosed lakes, playas, and seas. Salt beds may be hundreds of meters thick and underlie broad areas.
Halite. Halite is a mineral commonly known as table salt, rock salt or simply salt. Halite is composed of sodium and chlorine in equal proportions (NaCl). Rock salt and halite are not exactly synonymous terms. Halite is a mineral, rock salt is a type of rock that is predominantly composed of halite. 
Pyrite FeS2. Pyrite is the classic Fool's Gold.. There are other shiny, brassy yellow minerals, but pyrite is by far the most common and the most often mistaken for gold. Whether it is the golden look or something else, pyrite is a favorite among rock collectors. It can have a beautiful luster and interesting crystals
Quartz is a common mineral that is found in many different types of rocks. The chemical formula is Silicon oxide (SiO2). One type of quartz is easily identified by its hexagonal crystals, but quartz can also be found in a large mass. Quartz can be broken or weathered into the tiny pieces we know as sand. Milky quartz is a common mineral that is found in many different types of rocks. The chemical formula is silicon oxide (SiO2). One type of quartz is easily identified by its hexagonal crystals, but quartz can also be found in a large mass. Quartz can be broken or weathered into the tiny pieces we know as sand.