Since 1998, runners have turned out in their numbers to enjoy the atmosphere of the Half Marathon and to support their friends running in the Ultra Marathon. The 18th consecutive Old Mutual Two Oceans Half Marathon is run under the rules of IAAF, Athletics South Africa (ASA) and Western Province Athletics (WPA). 
Sport. First run in 1970, the Two Oceans Marathon has become, with the exception of the Comrades Marathon, the most famous ultra-marathon in South Africa, a beautiful and picturesque race that is known worldwide. 
Ultra Marathon (56km). The 46th consecutive Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon will remain on the traditional route via Chapman’s Peak, Hout Bay and Constantia Nek (unless deemed unsafe by authorities in which case the Ou Kaapse Weg route (prior to 2004) will be used).
The Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon is run under the rules of IAAF, Athletics South Africa (ASA) and Western Province Athletics (WPA). The 2016 Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon will take place on Saturday, 26 March. Distance: 56 km (34.8 miles). The 46th consecutive Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon will remain on the traditional route via Chapman’s Peak, Hout Bay and Constantia Nek (unless deemed unsafe by authorities in which case the Ou Kaapse Weg route (prior to 2004) will be used).
The Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon, which is arguably the world’s most beautiful sporting event, invites local and international competitors to push their bodies to the limit on Easter Saturday, 26 March 2016 in Cape Town (other subsidiary runs will take place on Good Friday, 25 March 2016). SUPPORTERS AT THE 2016 OLD MUTUAL TWO OCEANS MARATHON IN CAPE TOWN. If you’re supporting loved ones and friends participating in the ultra marathon, here’s a list of the best spots to see them whoosh past: 1  Main Road in Lakeside. 2  Kommetjie Road in Fish Hoek. 3  Silvermine Road intersection at Ou Kaapse Weg.
Register Login. Two Oceans The 'world's most beautiful marathon' offers a challenging ultra marathon, a popular half marathon, a trail run and fun runs that the whole family can enjoy. The race will take place on Saturday 26 March 2016. Old Mutual Live Your go-to destination for news on running, mountain biking and wine appreciation. October 08, 2015 Online entries for the 2016 Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon (OMTOM) open in a staggered process from 21 October 2015. Check out and diarise the dates in the schedule below, because as you know, entries are in huge demand.
n the Old Mutual Two oceans 56 km marathon programme the long run is the key ingredient. These runs are essential because they allow your body to adapt to the stresses of running the race distance. 
Bernard Rukadza and Landie Greyling dominate the 2015 Old Mutual Two Oceans Beast Trail Run. (Cape Town, 24 May 2015) Bernard Rukadza and Landie Greyling won the inaugural Old Mutual Two Oceans Beast Trail Run-an event that marked a tough day in the office for everyone th. read more. Free Family Fun at the OMTOM Mini Marathon in Khayelitsha. Posted 09 October 2015 | In News. Runners and walkers of all ages are invited to participate in the Old Mutual Two Oceans Mini Marathon that will take place at the Mandela Park Stadium in Khayelitsha on Saturday, 24 October 2015.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Finish of the Two Oceans Marathon at the University of Cape Town. The Two Oceans Marathon is a 56km / 35-mile ultramarathon and 21km half-marathon held annually in Cape Town, South Africa on the Saturday of the Easter weekend. Known globally as the world's most beautiful marathon, the race is run against a backdrop of spectacular scenery through the Cape Peninsula. Selling out every year, the Half Marathon sees some 16 000 participants (making it the biggest half marathon in South Africa), while 11 000 athletes tackle the 56km Ultra Marathon.