A 200-room hotel with 150 rooms occupied would have a 75% occupancy rate. Conversely, the vacancy rate is the number of units in a building that are not rented out as compared to the total number of units in the building. Next Up. In real estate, the number of units in a building that have been rented out as compared to the total number of units in the building. An apartment building containing 20 units, 18 of which had renters, would have a 90
The market vacancy rate for apartment buildings and multi-family properties is based on annual rental months. For example, a five-unit building has 60 rentable months. If three of those units are vacant for one month per year, the vacancy rate is 3/60, or five percent. Square footage is the basis for calculating the vacancy rate of a shopping center or office building. A 100,000 square-foot building with 25,000 unrented square feet of space has a vacancy rate of 25 percent. Rental income from apartment buildings and complexes, office buildings, retail centers and warehouses makes commercial real estate an attractive investment. Investors, sellers and lending institutions use several criteria, including vacancy rate, to evaluate potential return on a commercial property
DEFINITION of 'Occupancy Rate'. In real estate, the number of units in a building that have been rented out as compared to the total number of units in the building. An apartment building containing 20 units, 18 of which had renters, would have a 90% occupancy rate.
1. occupancy rate-the percentage of all rental units (as in hotels) are occupied or rented at a given time. pct, per centum, percent, percentage-a proportion in relation to a whole (which is usually the amount per hundred). hospital occupancy-occupancy rate for hospitals. 
Occupancy. Occupancy in building construction and building codes is the use or intended use of a building or part thereof for the shelter or support of persons, animals or property. A closely related meaning is the number of units in such a building that are rented or leased, or otherwise in-use
Occupancy can also refer to the number of units in use, such as hotel rooms, apartment flats, or offices. When a motel is at full occupancy, it is common practice to turn on a NO VACANCY neon sign. Completely vacant buildings can also attract crime. Occupancy can also refer to the number of persons using an undivided space, such as a meeting room, ballroom, auditorium, or stadium. As with building codes, fire protection authorities often set a limit on the number of people that can occupy a space at one time.
The vacancy rate is a numerical value calculated as the percentage of all available units in a rental property, such as a hotel or apartment complex, that are vacant or unoccupied at a particular time. The vacancy rate and occupancy rate should add up to 100%. Vacancy rates most often represent units that are vacant and ready to be rented, units that have been turned off upon the exit of a tenant and units that are not currently rentable because they are in need of repairs or renovations. RELATED TERMS.