1 Once logged in, on the top right you’ll see a button with your username in it – click on your username, and then click ‘Edit Profile’. 2  Once the Edit Profile page loads, you’ll see an option toward the bottom right that says ‘I’d like to delete my account’, click on this link.
To temporarily disable your account: 1  Log into instagram.com from a mobile browser or computer. 2  You can't temporarily disable your account from within the Instagram app.
Open the Instagram application on your device, and then sign in to your account. Step 2. Tap the direct messages button, represented by a mailbox icon at the top of the screen, to view a list of the messages that you have sent or received. Step 3. Tap the message that you want to delete, and then tap the ... button.
When you delete your account, your profile, photos, videos, comments, likes and followers will be permanently removed. If you'd just like to take a break, you can temporarily disable your account instead. To permanently delete your account: 1  Go to the Delete Your Account page.
To temporarily disable your account: 1  Log into instagram.com from a mobile browser or computer. 2  Click your username in the top right and then select Edit Profile. 3  Click Temporarily disable my account in the bottom right and follow the on-screen instructions.
Open a web browser and go to the Instagram website. You can’t delete Instagram from the iPhone app. Step 4: Log in to your account, and click profile button in the upper right-hand corner of the page. Select Edit Profile. Step 5: In the bottom right-hand corner of the Edit Profile page, you’ll see a link that says “I’d like to delete my account”.
Proceed with caution. Step 1: In a web browser, navigate to the Delete Your Account page. You’ll need to login with your Instagram username and password if you’re not already logged in. Step 2: Select a reason why you’re deleting your account and verify your password.
Instructions to delete your Instagram account: 1. Go to http://www.instagram.com. 2. Log in to your Instagram account using the 'Log In' button at the top right. 3. After you have logged in click your screen name on the right side of the top bar and click Edit Profile. 4. Scroll to the bottom of the page and at the bottom right click the button that says I'd like to delete my account.