Report Abuse. As a country-Australia DOES NOT have a zip code. Zip code are NOT for countries. Postcode works just like zip code for the USA. It appiles to region, towns or suburbs. Cheers from Australia EDIT: ALL postal codes in Australia are only 4 digits. I wanted to sign up for the Twilight website and it says that a zip code is compulsory to fill out. I clicked the country as other because there was no Australia. So i just wanted to know what I have to write in that box.
Best Answer: In Australia we call them post codes, not zip codes but essentially they are the same. Also, there is a different post code for every suburb. The Sydney CBD (Central Business District) - what Americans call downtown has its own post code 2000. However this is ONLY for the CBD. Sydney has approximately three hundred different suburbs and they all have a different post code.
This page details Australia phone code. The Australia country code 61 will allow you to call Australia from another country. Australia telephone code 61 is dialed after the IDD. Australia international dialing 61 is followed by an area code. The Australia area code table below shows the various city codes for Australia. Australia country codes are followed by these area codes. With the complete Australia dialing code, you can make your international call
Best Answer: There are no ZIP codes in Australia, or anywhere outside of the United States. Many countries have similar things, but ZIP codes are only in the United States. I wanted to sign up for the Twilight website and it says that a zip code is compulsory to fill out. I clicked the country as other because there was no Australia. So i just wanted to know what I have to write in that box.
Report Abuse. In Australia zip codes are called post codes. There are a number of post codes that relate to Sydney depending on what suburb you are looking for. Perhaps this site will help you narrow down the search http://postcodes.qpzm.com.au/au/nsw/sydn... but it will be four digits starting with 2. The Sydney CBD (Central Business District) - what Americans call downtown has its own post code 2000. However this is ONLY for the CBD. Sydney has approximately three hundred different suburbs and they all have a different post code.
Follow @callingcodes. We hope Country Calling Codes has been of help to you in finding the Australian calling code for your international call from United States to Australia. Why not bookmark this page and tell a friend about this site for the next time they need to lookup an area code or international dialing code. How to call Australia from United States: 011 - United States exit code to dial first when calling international. 61 - Australian country code must be dialed next 011 + 61 + Local Number-Overall dialing code format.
Use of the Australian Postcode system commenced in 1967, implemented by the Postmaster-General's Department (PMG), now called Australia Post. It replaced earlier postal sorting systems, such as Melbourne's letter and number codes (e.g., N3, E5) and a similar system once used in rural and regional New South Wales. Postcodes are used in Australia to sort and send mail to the correct address. All postcodes in Australia have four digits and are placed at the end of the address. Australian postcodes are managed by Australia Post. Postcodes are published in booklets available from post offices or online from the Australia Post website. Australian envelopes and postcards often have four square boxes printed in orange at the bottom right for the postcode
Welcome to postcodes-australia.com, your definitive resource for Australian postcode information. If you need to find a postcode for a certain address or area, or if you want to find out where a postcode relates to on the map, just enter a postcode or area name in the search box on the left and click the find! button. Postal codes were introduced in 1967 to make mail routing easier throughout the country. The basic theory of how postcodes are allocated is quite straight-forward, but there are a number of anomalies. In basic terms, Australian postal codes are always 4 digits long and follow the following rules: