The largest dwarf planet in the solar system could be either Eris or Pluto followed by Makemake and Haumea with the smallest being Ceres. The order of the dwarf planets from closest to Sun outwards is Ceres, Pluto, Haumea and Makemake with Eris being the furthest from the Sun.
This picture shows the sizes of the original three dwarf planets (Pluto, Ceres, and Eris) as compared to Earth. It also shows Pluto's large moon Charon (and its two small moons Nix and Hydra) and Eris's moon Dysnomia to scale. None of the distances between objects in this image are to scale. There are currently five official dwarf planets. Pluto, formerly the smallest of the nine traditional planets, was demoted to dwarf planet status. Ceres, the largest asteroid in the main asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter, was also declared a dwarf planet. The three other (for now!) dwarf planets are Eris, Makemake, and Haumea. Pluto, Makemake, and Haumea orbit the Sun on the frozen fringes of our Solar System in the Kuiper Belt. Eris, also a Trans-Neptunian Object, is even further from the Sun
With the exception of Ceres, which is located in the asteroid belt, the other dwarf planets are found in the outer solar system. There are another 6 objects in our solar system that are almost certainly dwarf planets and there may as many as 10,000. The order of the dwarf planets from closest to Sun outwards is Ceres, Pluto, Haumea and Makemake with Eris being the furthest from the Sun.
It is estimated that there may be 200 dwarf planets in the Kuiper belt of the outer Solar System and up to 10,000 in the region beyond. The International Astronomical Union (IAU) has accepted four of these: Pluto, Eris, Haumea, and Makemake, as well as Ceres in the inner Solar System. 
A “dwarf planet” is a celestial body that (a) is in orbit around the Sun, (b) has sufficient mass for its self-gravity to overcome rigid body forces so that it assumes a hydrostatic equilibrium (nearly round) shape, (c) has not cleared the neighbourhood around its orbit, and (d) is not a satellite. The order of the dwarf planets from closest to Sun outwards is Ceres, Pluto, Haumea and Makemake with Eris being the furthest from the Sun.
The IAU accepted Eris as a dwarf planet because it is more massive than Pluto. They subsequently decided that unnamed trans-Neptunian objects with an absolute magnitude brighter than +1 (and hence a diameter of ≥838 km assuming a geometric albedo of ≤1) are to be named under the assumption that they are dwarf planets. Estimates are that up to 200 dwarf planets may be found when the entire region known as the Kuiper belt is explored, and that the number may exceed 10,000 when objects scattered outside the Kuiper belt are considered.
About Dwarf Planets. The world was introduced to dwarf planets in 2006, when petite Pluto was stripped of its planet status and reclassified as a dwarf planet. The International Astronomical Union (IAU) currently recognizes two other dwarf planets, Eris and Ceres. 
There a currently five officially classified dwarf planets in our solar system. They are Ceres, Pluto, Haumea, Makemake and Eris. Ceres is located inside the asteroid belt between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter, while the other dwarf planets are located in the outer solar system in, or near to, the Kuiper belt. Pluto, Eris and Ceres (an asteroid in the asteroid belt between the orbits of Mars and Jupiter) were the first members of the dwarf planet class. There are currently five recognized dwarf planets, with Makemake and Haumea joining the first three members.
The exclusion of dwarf planets from the roster of planets by the IAU has been both praised and criticized; it was said to be the right decision by astronomer Mike Brown, who discovered Eris and other new dwarf planets, but has been rejected by Alan Stern, who had coined the term dwarf planet in 1990. Estimates are that up to 200 dwarf planets may be found when the entire region known as the Kuiper belt is explored, and that the number may exceed 10,000 when objects scattered outside the Kuiper belt are considered.