Acute invasive aspergillosis occurs when the immune system fails to prevent Aspergillus spores from entering the bloodstream via the lungs. Without the body mounting an effective immune response, fungal cells are free to disseminate throughout the body and can infect major organs such as the heart and kidneys. It is estimated that most humans inhale thousands of Aspergillus spores daily, but they do not impact on most people’s health due to effective immune responses. Taken together, the major chronic, invasive and allergic forms of aspergillosis account for around 600,000 deaths annually worldwide.
Aspergillus (/ˌaespərˈdʒɪləs/) ˌæspərˈdʒɪləs is a genus consisting of a few hundred mold species found in various climates. worldwide Some Aspergillus species cause serious disease in humans and animals. The most common pathogenic species are A. fumigatus and A. flavus, which produces aflatoxin which is both a toxin and a carcinogen, and which can contaminate foods such as nuts.
Aspergillosis. Aspergillosis is an infection caused by Aspergillus, a common mold (a type of fungus) that lives indoors and outdoors. Most people breathe in Aspergillus spores every day without getting sick. 
Aspergillus is a member of the Deuteromycetes fungi, which is a group with no known sexual state. With DNA evidence forthcoming, all members of the genus Aspergillus likely are closely related and should be considered members of the Ascomycota. Some Aspergillus species cause serious disease in humans and animals. The most common pathogenic species are A. fumigatus and A. flavus, which produces aflatoxin which is both a toxin and a carcinogen, and which can contaminate foods such as nuts.
The Pathogenic Side of the Species. Diseases caused by the genus Aspergillus are named aspergillosis. This includes invasion and damage of tissues in an animal that can be widespread and rapidly fatal. For emphasis, a spergillosis is the second most common fungal infection requiring hospitalization (Smith 1994). 
Some people with asthma or cystic fibrosis have an allergic reaction to aspergillus mold. Signs and symptoms of this condition, known as allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, include: 1  Fever. 2  A cough that may bring up blood or plugs of mucus. 3  Worsening asthma. 
About 16 species of Aspergillus molds are known to be dangerous to humans, causing disease and infection. Species of Aspergillus which are dangerous include: Aspergillus niger is the most abundant species of Aspergillus in nature as it can grow on a large variety of substances. Aspergillus niger can even grow in environments with very little nutrients available. In houses it is often found growing on damp walls.
Overview. Aspergillosis is an infection, allergic reaction, or fungal growth caused by the Aspergillus fungus. The fungus usually grows on decaying vegetation and dead leaves. Being exposed to the fungus does not necessarily mean that you will get aspergillosis; it is more likely to infect people with a weak immune system
Aspergillus was first catalogued in 1729 by the Italian priest and biologist Pier Antonio Micheli. Viewing the fungi under a microscope, Micheli was reminded of the shape of an aspergillum (holy water sprinkler), from Latin spargere (to sprinkle), and named the genus accordingly. Some Aspergillus species cause serious disease in humans and animals. The most common pathogenic species are A. fumigatus and A. flavus, which produces aflatoxin which is both a toxin and a carcinogen, and which can contaminate foods such as nuts.