RE: How long do I bake thawed chicken drumsticks for and at what temperature? I never know what temperature and how long to bake it at, so it always ends up a guessing game.
Pour the sauce over the chicken and bake at 180 deg C for 30 min, turn drumsticks over, and cook for another 30 min. 1 person found this useful. If it is ground chicken 165° F. Our government says that you should cook a whole chicken until the temperature measured in the thigh is 180°F (82°C). If you cook chicken pi … eces, the government says, the thigh, wings, and drumsticks should be 180°F, while the breast should reach 170°F (77°C). 
This is less so if the chicken is washed or the veins cleaned. The key is temperature, not color. If you have a meat thermometer, aim for 165-170°F (74-77°C), keeping in mind that meat will continue cooking for 5-10°F (3-6°C) once it's pulled and allowed to rest for 5 minutes.
Directions. 1  Put some olive oil in the bottom of a 9X13 pan (just enough to put the drumsticks on). 2  Add drumsticks (space enough apart so they aren't touching each other). 3  Sprinkle generously with pepper and garlic powder. 4  Sprinkle lightly with salt. 5  Bake at 375 for half an hour. 1 Add drumsticks (space enough apart so they aren't touching each other). 2  Sprinkle generously with pepper and garlic powder. 3  Sprinkle lightly with salt. 4  Bake at 375 for half an hour. 5  Turn drumsticks over and add more garlic powder, pepper and salt (same as before).
As the pieces of chicken get done, remove them from the oil and place them on a paper towel to allow the grease to drain. When using either method of frying, an important part of the process is keeping the oil at the proper temperature. Once the chicken is placed in the hot oil, the temperature of the oil will drop. Remove pieces of chicken from the oil as soon as they finish cooking. To keep the chicken warm while other pieces are cooking, set the pieces that are done on a baking pan covered with paper towels and place it in the oven at a low
1 Bake at 375 for half an hour. 2  Turn drumsticks over and add more garlic powder, pepper and salt (same as before). 3  Bake another half an hour (or until cooked til 160 degrees)). 1 Add drumsticks (space enough apart so they aren't touching each other). 2  Sprinkle generously with pepper and garlic powder. 3  Sprinkle lightly with salt. 4  Bake at 375 for half an hour. 5
Directions. 1  Put some olive oil in the bottom of a 9X13 pan (just enough to put the drumsticks on). 2  Add drumsticks (space enough apart so they aren't touching each other). 3  Sprinkle generously with pepper and garlic powder. 4  Bake at 375 for half an hour. 5  Bake another half an hour (or until cooked til 160 degrees)). 1 Add drumsticks (space enough apart so they aren't touching each other). 2  Sprinkle generously with pepper and garlic powder. 3  Sprinkle lightly with salt. 4  Bake at 375 for half an hour. 5  Turn drumsticks over and add more garlic powder, pepper and salt (same as before).
1 Put some olive oil in the bottom of a 9X13 pan (just enough to put the drumsticks on). 2  Add drumsticks (space enough apart so they aren't touching each other). 3  Sprinkle generously with pepper and garlic powder. 4  Sprinkle lightly with salt. 5  Bake at 375 for half an hour. 1 Add drumsticks (space enough apart so they aren't touching each other). 2  Sprinkle generously with pepper and garlic powder. 3  Sprinkle lightly with salt. 4  Bake at 375 for half an hour. 5  Turn drumsticks over and add more garlic powder, pepper and salt (same as before).
Baking your Chicken Legs... Preheat the oven to 400°F. Bake the chicken, uncovered, for 35 to 40 minutes or until the chicken is no longer pink inside. You can bake the chicken legs in a 375°F. oven, if desired. Increase the baking time to 45 to 50 minutes. Tip: An accurate way to check chicken doneness is to insert an instant-read thermometer into the thigh, avoiding the bone. It should read 180°F when the chicken is don
Best Answer: Deep-fat Frying: The chicken pieces for deep-fat frying are generally coated with a crumb coating or a batter. If a crumb coating is used, the pieces should be set aside to dry for 20 to 30 minutes after they are coated. If coating with a batter, the pieces of chicken can be coated just before frying. When deep-fat frying, be sure the individual pieces are not too large. Large pieces of chicken are difficult to cook properly, resulting in an outside crust that is overcooked or an inside that is not cooked thoroughly. To fry, fill a deep pan approximately half full of oil and heat to between 350°F and 375°F. Remove pieces of chicken from the oil as soon as they finish cooking. To keep the chicken warm while other pieces are cooking, set the pieces that are done on a baking pan covered with paper towels and place it in the oven at a low temperature.