The longer it takes for work to be performed, the more money is lost to the process. Companies look for speed and accuracy in data processing. The average keystrokes per hour in the U.S. is considered to be 12,000, according to a 2006 report by Viking Software Solutions, a data-entry software manufacturer. Companies expect data-entry workers to reach the national keystroke average with at least 90 percent accuracy. The faster you type, the more keystrokes you generate per hour. Many programs and classes available to help you learn to type faster and more efficiently.
Mine is between 13,000-15,000 kph depending on my focus for the time being, but I consistently do about 14,000 kph. I have seen data entry job postings looking for a minimum of 6,000 kph, but normally they look for 8,000-10,000 kph at the least. 
Confidence votes 22. The average typing speed is 38-40 words per minute (wpm) for adults in a professional working environment (despite many incorrect reports on the web that it is 50-60 wpm). 
1 WPM – your known current typing words per minute rate. 2  An average number of characters in typed words (also known as keystrokes), which we set to 5. 3  50, as in a 50 minute hour because this is the expected amount of minutes an entry operator would be entering data in a typical workday hour. Ever wonder how many KPH (keystrokes per hour) you type? The more common measure of typing speed has been wpm (words per minute). Sometimes though, your data entry KPH rate is needed, primarily when you are qualifying or searching for a job that involves a lot of this.
Through this Data Entry Test, you will find out what is your average speed for data entry measured in Words per Minute. You will have statistics on your typing accuracy after the 60 seconds timed challenge. The usual minimum requirement of words per minute for an alphanumeric data entry is 60 W.P.M., while 100 and above is the touch typing level of an executive secretary.
Answer by michaeledwardhourigan (462). The average speed for alphanumeric data entry is 50-70 words per a minute, and the average speed for numeric entry on a 10 key pad is 8,0000 to 10,000 kph. Answer by rajatanand (43). Average speed of data entry is about 30 words per minute. When people start data entry, their speed is low but with practice it increases over time. For repetetive tasks, the speed often with practice goes to 50 words per minute. add a comment.
show more I am currently searching for a job in data entry/front office/receptionist type of work but i'm not sure what the average speed is. I took a couple of free timed tests and my typing is timed at 28-30 wpm (which I know is slow). These criteria are mostly for numerical data entry. Typing (alpha data entry) is usually measure in WPM. 60 is usually the minimum requirement. 80 is very good. 100 or above is executive secretary level, which is also usually a very good-paying job. Source(s): Years of office work.
Next. I am currently searching for a job in data entry/front office/receptionist type of work but i'm not sure what the average speed is. I took a couple of free timed tests and my typing is timed at 28-30 wpm (which I know is slow). I also downloaded a program that allows you to practice your data entry but its only... These criteria are mostly for numerical data entry. Typing (alpha data entry) is usually measure in WPM. 60 is usually the minimum requirement. 80 is very good. 100 or above is executive secretary level, which is also usually a very good-paying job. Source(s): Years of office work.
Data Entry Test. Through this Data Entry Test, you will find out what is your average speed for data entry measured in Words per Minute. You will have statistics on your typing accuracy after the 60 seconds timed challenge. Here you can test your ability to type fast and without mistakes! The usual minimum requirement of words per minute for an alphanumeric data entry is 60 W.P.M., while 100 and above is the touch typing level of an executive secretary.