up vote 12 down vote. Based on this dog food calculator. A full grown mastiff will grow to be about 150-200 pounds 1. Which means a 180 pound mastiff 2 with what the site considers a typical activity level, and food with a kcal amount of 320 per cup 3. You're looking at roughly 10-11 cups of food twice a day. Each of my English mastiffs eat that in a 2 week period, so each mastiff will cost you just on food $120 a month. Now throw the vet bills etc.
If it makes any difference, here are two growth charts for Mastiffs: http://www.mastiffonlinecommunity.net/. The first must be taken with a grain of salt, because many happy, healthy Mastiffs do not follow it. According to it, a twelve-month-old male would be 175 pounds, and would be 220 pounds by age five. There's a good chart here: http://kiokeemastiffscom.blogspot.fr/2008/03/how-much-should-my-mastiff-puppydog.html. Answer by cheryl. I have a 19 month old male English Mastiff his last vet visit 1month ago. He only weighted about 129/130. However his mom and dad are 2xlg Im wondering why is he so sml.
The Old English Mastiff is a massive dog. The Mastiff has a large, heavy, square head with a well-marked stop between the eyes. The muzzle should be half the length of the skull. That is the only way your relationship with your dog can be a complete success. Height, Weight Height: Males from 30 inches (76 cm) Females from 27 inches (69 cm) Weight: Males about 160 pounds (72 kg) Females about 150 pounds (68 kg) One of the heaviest breeds, a male Mastiff can exceed 200 pounds.
The body is large with great depth and breadth, especially between the forelegs, causing these to be set wide apart. The AKC standard height (per their website) for this breed is 30 inches (76 cm) at the shoulder for males and 27.5 inches (70 cm) (minimum) at the shoulder for females. Due to the breed's large size, puppies may potentially be smothered or crushed by the mother during nursing. A whelping box, along with careful monitoring can prevent such accidents. The average lifespan of the Mastiff is about 7 years although it's not uncommon for some to live to 10–11 years.
There is no upper height limit—they may range from the minimum of 27 inches to 36 inches for the exceptionally tall ones. There is no weight range in the Mastiff standard-they can weigh anywhere from 100 lbs. to the world's record of 343 lbs. Most Mastiff males weigh around 160-230 lbs. and females weigh 120-170 lbs. This breed is suppose to be very broad with a huge head, wide chest and large bone, and is longer in body than in height. Mastiffs should have a calm, self-assured temperament, and be devoted to its family and friends. 
BIG-BIGGER-BIGGEST! Welcome to a page dedicated to one subject only: SIZE! The English Mastiff is the heaviest dog breed in the world. Mighty Murphy from England weighed 159 kilos! Normal weight of a fully grown male Mastiff is between 80-100 kilos (about 180-220 lbs.), but this varies quite a lot within the breed. Compared to other breeds that often are considered big, the Mastiff is incomparable. 
Height and Weight. A Mastiff from England, Zorba, is listed in the Guinness Book of World Records as the heaviest dog in the world. At over 140 kg. Zorba was exceptional, but even so, Mastiffs are a giant breed of dog. In height, adult Mastiffs are usually 70 to 85 cm at the shoulder. This means that their head is at the height of an adult's hip. In weight, an adult Mastiff will generally weigh between 60 and 100kgs, more than many owners. On average, males will be taller and heavier than females but there are plenty of exceptions.
A Mastiff due to its size will cost you more money at the Vet's office also. Remember the antibiotic for Aunt Mary's toy poodle only cost her $10.00 but since most dosages are based on weight, a week's supply of antibiotics for your Mastiff can cost upwards of $50 to $100. Owning a Mastiff is a major responsibility but they will reward you a million times over with their love. They are not the breed for everyone however, due to their size and their need to be a major part of your family.
We are Breeders of the true Mastiff, sometimes referred to as the English Mastiff or the Old English Mastiff. Please do not confuse us with the American Mastiff, which is a cross between the Mastiff and the Anatolian Shepherd. The AKC recognizes Mastiffs and does not recognize the American Mastiff. 