Positive results for muscle acetylcholine receptor (AChR) binding or striational antibodies are found in 13% of patients with Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LES). This does not mean that myasthenia gravis (MG) and LES co-exist. The assay for muscle acetylcholine receptor (AChR) binding antibodies is positive in approximately 90% of nonimmunosuppressed patients with generalized MG.
Acetylcholine receptor antibody is a protein found in the blood of most people with myasthenia gravis. The antibody affects a chemical that sends signals from nerves to muscles and between nerves in the brain. This article discusses the blood test for acetylcholine receptor antibody. 
AChR antibody levels. Anti-acetylcholine receptor antibody is found in 70-90% of patients with generalized acquired myasthenia gravis (MG). Lambert-Eaton syndrome is a close differential, as less than 13% of patients have clinical presentation similar to MG and antibodies against acetylcholine receptors in high titers. Therefore the reflex panel detects anti-acetylcholine receptor (blocking and binding) antibodies in the serum, if antibody level is greater than 0.4nmol/L, or antibody level is greater than 15% then modulating antibody is added.
An acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibody test is used to help diagnose myasthenia gravis (MG) and to distinguish it from other conditions that may cause similar symptoms, such as chronic muscle fatigue and weakness. 
This test measures the concentration of a substance called acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibody in your blood. AChR antibodies stop the neurotransmitter acetylcholine from doing its job. Acetylcholine carries nerve signals that tell your muscle cells to contract. AChR antibodies are made if you have the rare autoimmune disease myasthenia gravis (MG). People with MG usually, but not always, have a high concentration of AChR antibody. MG occurs in five to 14 people per 100,000.
Striated Muscle Antibodies, IgG: In the presence of acetylcholine receptor (AChR) antibody, striated muscle antibodies, which bind in a cross-striational pattern to skeletal and heart muscle tissue sections, are associated with late-onset myasthenia gravis (MG). 
(1)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905. Acetylcholine receptor (AChR) binding and AChR modulating antibodies were found with approximately the same frequency (86%) in 349 patients with myasthenia gravis (MG). 
Cautions. Positive results for muscle acetylcholine receptor (AChR) binding or striational antibodies are found in 13% of patients with Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LES). This does not mean that myasthenia gravis (MG) and LES co-exist. The assay for muscle acetylcholine receptor (AChR) binding antibodies is positive in approximately 90% of nonimmunosuppressed patients with generalized MG.
Antibody to acetylcholine receptor in myasthenia gravis Table 1. Acetylcholine receptor anitbody in patients with myasthenia gravis and controls Table 2. Distribution of antireceptor antibody titers in patients with myasthenia gravis amounts of 1251-toxin-labeled acetylcholine receptor. Article abstract Elevated amounts of antibodies specific for acetylcholine receptors were detected in 87 percent of sera from 71 patients with myasthenia gravis but not in 175 sera from individuals without myasthenia gravis, including those with other neurologic or autoimmune diseases.
Binding antibody is the most common antibody found in patients with MG. These antibodies bind to the AChR on the muscle end plate and activate endocytosis/complement system leading to degradation of these receptors which results in poor muscle strength. Therefore the reflex panel detects anti-acetylcholine receptor (blocking and binding) antibodies in the serum, if antibody level is greater than 0.4nmol/L, or antibody level is greater than 15% then modulating antibody is added.