The plane in mid-flight. The Cargo Plane is a vehicle that appears in Uncharted 3: Drake's Deception. It is marked with the serial number CPCC-56391. The crash-site is shown in the foreground of the front cover of the game. Singleplayer Edit. The plane plays a large role in the game. The plane is first seen flying over Yemen in Chapter 10 - Historical Research. It is used by Marlowes agents to airdrop supplys to a convoy on its way to Ubar. Its cargo includes two Trucks, Jeeps and numerous containers and supply crates.
We recently flew Space-A and it was our first time flying Space A on a cargo plane. I think this is an opportunity that many military families are hesitant to take advantage of because it is outside their ‘comfort zone’ because it’s not like flying on a ‘normal’ commercial plane. There are also a few challenges to flying on a Cargo plane as well: It’s a bit loud and and ear plugs are needed (However I’ll share how we found this to be a perk). There may not be regular airplane seats but instead jump seats against the wall.
The C-17 Military Cargo Plane. The C-17 cargo airplane is a large military transport aircraft. It was developed for the United States Air Force (USAF) from the 1980s to the early 1990s by McDonnell Douglas. 
Freighter aircraft. Airbus builds highly capable freighters to fulfill a full range of cargo lift requirements. The A330-200F is the only new-generation cargo aircraft available today that meets operations’ needs in the mid-size, long-haul segment. 
Follow cargo plane to get e-mail alerts and updates on your eBay Feed. Unfollow cargo plane to stop getting updates on your eBay Feed. Yay! You're now following cargo plane in your eBay Feed. 
Home Cargo/Freighter. 150 Cargo/Freighter for Sale Worldwide. Refine your aircraft for sale search or start a new search with the tools on the left. View more details about Cargo/Freighter for Sale Worldwide by clicking on an aircraft advertisement below. You can view pictures, aircraft specifications or contact the seller directly! Showing Results: 1 to 50 of 150. 
Description. The Cargo Plane is a large military 8-engine cargo aircraft. Its fuselage is similar to Antonov An-124 fuselage, its engines is very similar to Boeing B-52 Stratofortress engines. Performance. Despite its heavy weight and enormous size, the Cargo Plane is considerably fast, but its handling is poor. Its large wingspan makes it rather difficult to execute sharp turns, but the very large wings in turn make it one of the most stable planes in the game.
194,814 pages on this wiki. Cargo jet redirects here. For the Canadian cargo airline, see Cargojet. A cargo aircraft (also known as freight aircraft, freighter, airlifter, or cargo jet) is a fixed-wing aircraft that is designed or converted for the carriage of goods, rather than passengers.
Fully loaded Russian cargo plane barely takes off from Australian runway, control tower jokes until they realize how close to disaster it was. Category. License. 
Home United States Cargo/Freighter. 65 Cargo/Freighter for Sale in United States. Refine your aircraft for sale search or start a new search with the tools on the left. View more details about Cargo/Freighter for Sale in United States by clicking on an aircraft advertisement below. You can view pictures, aircraft specifications or contact the seller directly! Showing Results: 1 to 50 of 65