Welding certifications come in many positions, metal thickness, welding processes, and metal types. When the term “Certified Welder” is used it only means that welder is certified under the welding procedures they have tested under. There is not a single welding certification that covers all types of welding. The 1G welding certification position is a plate in the flat position that is beveled. This position is the most basic and only covers the welder in that position. It’s the easiest test to pass and the least desired by employers.
In addition, if you're certified in welding groove joints, you're automatically certified to weld fillets (but not vice versa). On the other hand, if your test involves a less ambitious weld, such as a fillet weld in the vertical position, you would be certified for 3F welding and lower, but not 4F, 1G, 2G, 3G, or 4G. Of course, veteran pipe welders can do much better than a 4G certification. Just below that is a 5G cert, which involves pipe welding in the vertical position. The video above describes a typical qualification test used in welding certification. Please note that the welder's part of this test starts when you see the number 2 in the lefthand corner of the screen. The test stops after Step 8.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Welder certification, (also known as welder qualification) is a process which examines and documents a welder's capability to create welds of acceptable quality following a well defined welding procedure. Welder certification is based on specially designed tests to determine a welder 's skill and ability to deposit sound weld metal. The welder's tests consist of many variables, including the specific welding process, type of metal, thickness, joint design, position, and others
For example, a job description may require a welder certified at the level of 4-G. The G stands for groove welding. The number indicates the position of the welder in relation to the work. If you examine the welds below, you can see four different positions, starting with the easiest. Just below that is a 5G cert, which involves pipe welding in the vertical position. The video above describes a typical qualification test used in welding certification. Please note that the welder's part of this test starts when you see the number 2 in the lefthand corner of the screen. The test stops after Step 8.
The term Coded Welding, ''Code Welding'' or Welding Codes means that the person who says he or she is a coded welder has taken an exam in a welding process using a certain method. (Welder Approval Test)Think of it as a bit like learning to be a pilot. 
Having welding certification papers from the AWS does not necessarily mean you can use them for a job using the ASME code. The more certifications a welder has, the better because in life every feather you put in your cap will help. Welding is absolutely one of the hardest trades there is when it comes to proving yourself. There are codes, specifications, and procedures that have to be mastered, then proven time after time. Certification papers make you a certified welder. They show you've passed a welding test. (The Importance of Weld Tests). Being a certified welder means you can pass a test, but it does not necessarily mean you are a good hand. Someone who goes to welding school may spend hours doing nothing but welding test plates. If they have any talent at all, and with all that practice, they will probably pass the code to become certified
In short, being a certified welder means you hold a certification (as in an official printed certificate) certifying you have the ability to produce welds according to accepted standards, formally prescribed in writing. Step 1. Complete a welder’s training program. There are a variety of online resources which can help direct you to welding school in your area. More than likely, your local community college offers a welder’s training program that’s designed (at least in part) to prepare you for welding a certification test.
To become certified, a welder must take a test in which he’s judged and graded based on how well he conforms to the written procedure governing the type of weld he’s executing. By passing the test, the welder earns his certification. Each procedure has its own test. Pretty straightforward. Step 1. Complete a welder’s training program. There are a variety of online resources which can help direct you to welding school in your area. More than likely, your local community college offers a welder’s training program that’s designed (at least in part) to prepare you for welding a certification test.