Hepatitis B is a virus that infects the liver and usually causes progressive damage by bringing the immune cells into the liver and invoking an inflammatory response. The general word hepatitis indicates the presence of this inflammatory response. Once the inflammation (presence of pus cells) begins, fibrosis (scar tissue) may form and eventually a patient may develop cirrhosis liver failure and liver cancer.
What is Hepatitis. Hepatitis is an inflammation of the liver. It is usually caused by viral infections, toxic agents or drugs but may be an autoimmune response. It is characterised by jaundice, abdominal pain, liver enlargement and sometimes fever.
For example, in case of an infection, they attract white blood cells to the tissues, triggering an inflammatory response. In the liver, persistent cytokine secretion resulting in chronic inflammation leads to conditions such as hepatitis, fibrosis, and cirrhosis.
Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell. There are B and T type lymphocytes. 1  B lymphocytes become cells that produce antibodies. 2  Antibodies attach to a specific antigen and make it easier for the immune cells to destroy the antigen. 3  T lymphocytes attack antigens directly and help control the immune response.
The inflammatory response (inflammation) occurs when tissues are injured by bacteria, trauma, toxins, heat, or any other cause. The damaged cells release chemicals including histamine, bradykinin, and prostaglandins. These chemicals cause blood vessels to leak fluid into the tissues, causing swelling.
Autoimmune Liver Diseases. _ Autoimmune hepatitis is inflammation in your liver that occurs when your body's immune system attacks your liver. Although the cause of autoimmune hepatitis isn't entirely clear, some diseases, toxins and drugs may trigger autoimmune hepatitis in susceptible people, especially women.
2. What is Hepatitis B. Hepatitis B is caused by the hepatitis B virus, the virus is very common in Asia, China, Philippines, China, Africa and the Middle east. In Europe and North America the incidence of known carriers is about 1 in a 1000 people.
Autoimmune hepatitis occurs when the body's immune system, which ordinarily attacks viruses, bacteria and other pathogens, instead targets the liver. This attack on your liver can lead to chronic inflammation and serious damage to liver cells.