Duranta erecta, long grown as D. repens is native to the New World from Florida, the Caribbean south to Brazil and has many common names, including golden dewdrop, pigeon-berry and sky-flower. The attractive fruits and the foliage have saponins that are poisonous to humans. 
Duranta repens Common name: Golden dewdrop, Pigeon berry, Palatability to Livestock: Garden plant, not known to be eaten. Toxicity to Goats: Low degree of toxicity. Toxicity to Other Species: Potentially toxic to grazing animals and pets. Poisonous Principle: . Saponins, . Unknown alkaloids, . Unknown glucocide, . 
There are two Duranta species commonly used as ornamentals. Duranta erecta is thought to be a native of the Florida Keys, but is more likely to have been collected from Mexico or South America. This small-leaved species was previously identified as D. repens. Flowering (and fruiting) is not as strong with those plants with variegated leaves. The tips of Golden dewdrop stems are covered with bloom in the warm season. Photo: University of Georgia Different varieties of Duranta have different shades of deep to light purple flowers.
Light blue Duranta. The genus Duranta L. contains 17 to 30 species of tropical trees and shrubs; some are regionally cultivated as ornamentals. The Duranta we have accepted is Duranta erecta commonly called Lilac-Flowered Golden Dewdrop, Brazilian Sky Flower, Duranta, Pigeon Berry, or Sky Flower. It is a rapidly growing type having dense, somewhat evergreen, foliage and lilac colored flowers.
Duranta erecta is a species of flowering shrub in the verbena family Verbenaceae, native from Mexico to South America and the Caribbean. It is widely cultivated as an ornamental plant in tropical and subtropical gardens throughout the world, and has become naturalized in many places. The fruit is a small globose yellow or orange berry, up to 11 mm (0.43 in) diameter and containing several seeds. The leaves and berries of the plant are toxic, and are confirmed to have killed children, dogs and cats. However, songbirds eat the fruit without ill effects.
Duranta erecta is a sprawling shrub or (infrequently) a small tree. It can grow to 6 m (20 ft) tall and can spread to an equal width. Mature specimens possess axillary thorns, which are often absent on younger specimens. The fruit is a small globose yellow or orange berry, up to 11 mm (0.43 in) diameter and containing several seeds. The leaves and berries of the plant are toxic, and are confirmed to have killed children, dogs and cats. However, songbirds eat the fruit without ill effects.
Duranta erecta is native to the Americas, from Mexico and the Caribbean south to Brazil and Argentina. There is some debate about whether the plant is also native to the southern United States, in Florida, Louisiana, Texas, Arizona and California, or is an introduced species there. The fruit is a small globose yellow or orange berry, up to 11 mm (0.43 in) diameter and containing several seeds. The leaves and berries of the plant are toxic, and are confirmed to have killed children, dogs and cats. However, songbirds eat the fruit without ill effects.
Flowers are very attractive to butterflies. Duranta erecta, long grown as D. repens is native to the New World from Florida, the Caribbean south to Brazil and has many common names, including golden dewdrop, pigeon-berry and sky-flower. The attractive fruits and the foliage have saponins that are poisonous to humans. In mild climates this plant can be in flower nearly year round with flowers and fruit appearing at the same time. Besides its more compact nature, 'Sapphire Showers' seems to be lacking the long spines that are occasionally found arising from the leaf axils on typical Duranta erecta plants.
Native to tropical areas of the Americas, Duranta (Duranta erecta) or pigeon berry is a frost-tender perennial. This 2- to 15-foot tall flowering shrub is well suited for border areas and living hedges. 