The U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics estimated that social workers in general had a median salary of $53,900 in 2011. However, in 2011 social workers that were employed in psychiatric and substance abuse hospitals had a median salary of $ 51,710. First of all, they typically work in a team with other mental health professionals, such as psychologists, psychiatrists, counselors, and therapists. Most importantly, though, mental health social workers also work closely with mentally ill individuals and their loved ones.
Psychiatric social workers help mental health patients and their families in a similar way to counselors and psychologists. Their main job function is to assess patients and develop individualized plans of care. Duties of a Psychiatric Social Worker. Psychiatric social workers typically conduct interviews in order to determine the appropriate services to offer mental health patients and their families.
Most social workers in these groups are clinical social workers. All other social workers earned an average annual salary of $54,220, according to the BLS. Clinical, counseling and school psychologists earned an average salary of $73,090. The job outlook for both social work and psychology is good. In both cases, growth is expected to be above the average for most occupations.
Due to the demand for social services, social workers are expected to have a faster than average career growth (compared to national figures) of 19% from 2012 to 2022, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Duties of a Psychiatric Social Worker. Psychiatric social workers typically conduct interviews in order to determine the appropriate services to offer mental health patients and their families.
Licensed Clinical Social Workers seem to wield many skills on the job. Most notably, skills in Spanish Language, Training, Psychiatric, and Clinical Supervision are correlated to pay that is above average, with boosts between 8 percent and 12 percent. Pay can fall anywhere from $40K to $79K per year, but median earnings come to around $52K annually. This group's pay is mainly influenced by the specific employer, followed by geography and experience level. Job satisfaction for Licensed Clinical Social Workers is high.
Healthcare social workers, who assist individuals with psychosocial issues, earned an average salary of $52,520 in 2013, based on data from the bureau. Psychiatric social workers typically conduct interviews in order to determine the appropriate services to offer mental health patients and their families. Duties of a Psychiatric Social Worker
$61,000. Average Psychiatric Social Worker salaries for job postings nationwide are 6% higher than average salaries for all job postings nationwide.
(United States). A Social Worker earns an average salary of $41,663 per year. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this career. The highest paying skills associated with this job are Patient Counseling, Hospice, Psychiatric, Geriatrics, and Assessment. $29,976 - $61,262
Social Worker Salaries. Salaries for social workers vary according to their area of practice. Child, family and school social workers, who are usually considered direct-service social workers, had an average annual salary of $44,410 as of 2011, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Mental health and substance abuse social workers, who are clinical social workers, averaged $42,650 for the same period. For direct-service social workers, this degree may be all that is necessary, but a clinical social worker must have a master's in social work. Psychiatric nurse practitioners also must have a master's degree, and some obtain doctorates.
Psychiatric social workers consult with psychiatrists and psychologists and other health care workers. Most social workers work 40-hours a week, but occasionally may work evenings and weekends. While social work can be difficult because of emotional strain, it is also challenging and rewarding. Psychiatric social workers, also referred to as clinical social workers or mental social workers, help individuals with mental or emotional disorders deal with social problems such as substance abuse or child neglect.