Side effects linked to tea-tree oil. Topical use of the tea-tree oil may cause severe rash, and reddening of the skin. People who suffer from eczema or other skin conditions may find that tea-tree oil will exacerbate their symptoms.
Tea tree oil is derived from the tea tree plant, Melaleuca alternifolia, which is native to Australia. Tea tree oil is a completely natural substance that is made up of 48 natural compounds. This oil cannot be reproduced; it is solely a product of nature. It is valued for its healing properties and is used to treat infections. It is also used for other purposes, such as hair care and skin care.
Tea tree oil, or Melaleuca alternifolia oil, is made from the steam distillation of leaves from the narrow-leaf tea tree plant. This tall shrub is part of the myrtle family and is native to Australia. It is well known for its essential oil, which is often used to treat fungal infections and other ailments.
Tea-tree oil, also known as melaleuca oil, is a yellowish colored essential oil that is made from the leaves of the plant Melaleuca alternifolia (native to Australia). Tea-tree oil and tea oil are completely different products.
1 For example, there is some evidence that a 5% tea tree oil cream applied three times daily for two months has no benefit. 2  Mild to moderate acne. 3  Applying a 5% tea tree oil gel appears to be as effective as 5% benzoyl peroxide (Oxy-5, Benzac AC, and others) for treating acne.
Athlete's foot 4 - the topical application of a tea-tree oil cream for the treatment of athlete's foot (tinea pedis) was examined in a study published in Australas J Dermatol. The researchers said that tea-tree oil cream (10% w/w) appears to reduce the symptomatology of tinea pedis as effectively as tolnaftate.
Tea tree oil (TTO), also called melaleuca oil, is made from the leaves of the tea tree plant (Melaleuca alternifolia) , a member of the myrtle tree family, which is native to Australia.
Acne 2 - a comparative study of tea-tree oil versus benzoyl peroxide in the treatment of acne found that 5% tea-tree oil and 5% benzoyl peroxide had a significant effect in ameliorating the patients' acne.