You can make a lot of money as a Beachbody Coach! I am a walking, breathing real world example of this. The quick answer is you can make anywhere from $0, to well over $1,000,000 yearly as Beachbody Coach.
A Beachbody Coach can make a lot of money if they are willing to put in the effort and treat it like a real business. It is not easy by any means, and it is definitely not easy money or a get rich quick scheme. But with a little effort and time, a Beachbody Coach will make a lot of money.
So if a Coach makes a Shakeology sale, they will make a $30 commission on that sale. If a Coach sells 5 Shakeologys (does anyone know the plural form of Shakeology?…lol), and a Coach would earn approximately ($30 x 5 = $150) $150 in commissions for those 5 sales.
If you're thinking about becoming a Beachbody coach you may be wondering exactly how much money you can make. This can be a rather difficult question to answer because it really depends on the individual. Beachbody has made available a Statement of Independent Coach Earnings for the year ending 12/30/2009.
Beachbody Coaches don’t get paid by the hour and they don’t earn a fixed weekly salary. Some Coaches make $0 a week, while other Coaches make $1000’s of dollars a week. Yes, this is a huge variation and difference in earnings. You are probably wondering, how does one Coach earn zero dollars, while another Coach earns thousands of dollars a week, that doesn’t seem fair.
Beachbody Coaches are independent business owners, and how much money they make will depend on how serious they treat their business and how much effort they put into it. Some Beachbody Coaches make over $100,000 a year, and some Coaches make $0. This is the case in any business.
As a Beachbody Coach you may not make ANY money at all. At the same time you could make a few hundred dollars a month, or a few thousand dollars a month. Or you could make a couple thousand dollars a WEEK, or even over $10,000 per week. Your Beachbody Coach pay is determined by one thing and one thing only.