Autosomal recessive: A genetic condition that appears only in individuals who have received two copies of an autosomal gene, one copy from each parent. The gene is on an autosome, a nonsex chromosome. The parents are carriers who have only one copy of the gene and do not exhibit the trait because the gene is recessive to its normal counterpart gene. If both parents are carriers, there is a 25% chance of a child inheriting both abnormal genes and, consequently, developing the disease.
dominant gene one that produces an effect (the phenotype) in the organism regardless of the state of the corresponding allele. An example of a trait determined by a dominant gene is brown eye color. See also heredity. histocompatibility gene one that determines the specificity of tissue antigenicity (hla antigens) and thus the compatibility of donor and recipient in tissue transplantation and blood transfusion.
Recessive Gene. A recessive gene is a gene that is not dominant but only manifests when a gene of both parents is the same, i.e., homozygous (where both genes are the same as in two genes for blue eyes). When there is both a dominant gene (brown eyes) and a recessive gene (blue eyes) in an allele (heterozygous), then the dominate gene manifests.
If both genes are recessive and produce the same trait, the trait is expressed in the individual. Genetics A genetic trait that is not phenotypically expressed in a heterozygous or partially heterozygous cell, but rather only in a homozygous or hemizygous state. See Phenotype, Trait. Cf Dominant. 
A gene which will be expressed only if there are 2 identical copies or, for a male, if one copy is present on the X chromosome. Definition from: Human Genome Project Information at the U.S. Department of Energy. Recessive is a quality found in the relationship between two versions of a gene. Individuals receive one version of a gene, called an allele, from each parent. If the alleles are different, the dominant allele will be expressed, while the effect of the other allele, called recessive, is masked. In the case of a recessive genetic disorder, an individual must inherit two copies of the mutated allele in order for the disease to be present
2. Genetics. a. pertaining to the allele of a gene pair whose effect is masked by the second allele when both are present in the same cell or organism. b. of or pertaining to the hereditary trait determined by such an allele. 3. Genetics. Compare dominant (def. 6). a. the recessive allele of a gene pair. In an organism having two different genes for a trait, the recessive form is suppressed by its counterpart, or dominant, form located on the other of a pair of chromosomes. See more at inheritance. Compare dominant.
Definition of Recessive. Recessive: A condition that appears only in individuals who have received two copies of a mutant gene, one copy from each parent. The individuals with a double dose of the mutated gene are called homozygotes. 
Relating to the form of a gene that is not expressed as a trait in an individual unless two such genes are inherited, one from each parent. In an organism having two different genes for a trait, the recessive form is suppressed by its counterpart, or dominant, form located on the other of a pair of chromosomes. See more at inheritance. Compare dominant.
(genetics) Of, or pertaining to, a gene (or allele) whose phenotypic expression is masked by a dominant gene (or allele). noun. (1) A recessive allele or trait. (2) An organism whose recessive trait is discernible or expressed. Supplement. In genetics, a recessive gene or allele is one in which the effect is not tangible, or is masked by the effects of the dominant gene. The recessive trait may be expressed when the recessive genes are in homozygous condition or when the dominant gene is not present. That happens when an organism inherits a pair of recessive genes from its parents. Word origin: Latin recess(us) , a withdrawal, receding part + - ive.