Get the Latest health and medical information delivered direct to your inbox! The lungs are a pair of spongy, air-filled organs located on either side of the chest (thorax). The trachea (windpipe) conducts inhaled air into the lungs through its tubular branches, called bronchi. The bronchi then divide into smaller and smaller branches (bronchioles), finally becoming microscopic. The bronchioles eventually end in clusters of microscopic air sacs called alveoli.
your lungs are located on the right and left side of your body just up from your waistline. Source(s): lungs located: https://trimurl.im/a36/where-are-my-lung...
All rights reserved. The lungs are a pair of spongy, air-filled organs located on either side of the chest (thorax). The trachea (windpipe) conducts inhaled air into the lungs through its tubular branches, called bronchi. The bronchi then divide into smaller and smaller branches (bronchioles), finally becoming microscopic. 1 Pulmonary fibrosis: A form of interstitial lung disease. 2  The interstitium (walls between air sacs) become scarred, making the lungs stiff and causing shortness of breath. 3  Sarcoidosis: Tiny areas of inflammation can affect all organs in the body, with the lungs involved most of the time.
your lungs are just inside your ribcage, from the chest in. there is your heart, stomach, spine, some arm muscles, and big arteries and veins between your lungs and your back … skin. there is just the ribcage and a couple big blood vessels between the lungs and the chest. 4 people found this useful. 
They are inside your ribs from front to back, top to bottom. Your heart sits in the space between them. They have different lobes, so your pneumonia could be in a part of your lungs that reflects to your back causing the pain. Take your medicine and rest, get well soon. Source(s): lungs located: https://trimurl.im/a36/where-are-my-lung...
The lungs are covered by a thin tissue layer called the pleura. The same kind of thin tissue lines the inside of the chest cavity -- also called pleura. A thin layer of fluid acts as a lubricant allowing the lungs to slip smoothly as they expand and contract with each breath. The trachea (windpipe) conducts inhaled air into the lungs through its tubular branches, called bronchi. The bronchi then divide into smaller and smaller branches (bronchioles), finally becoming microscopic. The bronchioles eventually end in clusters of microscopic air sacs called alveoli.
1 Emphysema: A form of COPD usually caused by smoking. 2  The fragile walls between the lungs' air sacs (alveoli) are damaged, trapping air in the lungs and making breathing difficult. 3  Chronic bronchitis: Repeated, frequent episodes of productive cough, usually caused by smoking. 1 Pulmonary fibrosis: A form of interstitial lung disease. 2  The interstitium (walls between air sacs) become scarred, making the lungs stiff and causing shortness of breath. 3  Sarcoidosis: Tiny areas of inflammation can affect all organs in the body, with the lungs involved most of the time.
The lungs are located in the chest on either side of the heart in the rib cage. They stretch from close to the backbone in the rib cage, and rest on the diaphragm. The left lung shares space with the heart, with an angular notch in its anterior border called the cardiac notch. They are situated within the thoracic cavity of the chest. The right lung is bigger than the left lung, as the left lung shares space in the chest with the heart. The lungs together weigh approximately 1.3 kilograms (2.9 lb), with the right lung weighing more than the left.
Click here to download. Our lungs fuel us with oxygen, the body's life-sustaining gas. They breathe in air, then extract the oxygen and pass it into the bloodstream, where it's rushed off to the tissues and organs that require it to function. Oxygen drives the process of respiration, which provides our cells with energy. 
The lungs are the primary organs of respiration in humans and many other animals. Humans have two lungs, a right lung and a left lung. They are situated within the thoracic cavity of the chest. The right lung is bigger than the left lung, as the left lung shares space in the chest with the heart. The lungs together weigh approximately 1.3 kilograms (2.9 lb), with the right lung weighing more than the left.