For example, most animal epithelial cells contain keratins, a diverse family of intermediate filaments consisting of more than 50 members, while mesenchymal and muscle cells are rich in the fibrous proteins, vimentin and desmin, respectively. Another highly specialized class of intermediate filaments are the nuclear lamins, which constitute the fibrous protein network that lines the inside of the nuclear membrane, as discussed above.
Intermediate filaments (IFs) are cytoskeletal components found in the cells of many animal species. They are composed of a family of related proteins sharing common structural and sequence features. 
The third cytoskeletal system is called the intermediate filament system because the filaments, which are 10 nm in diameter, are intermediate in size between microfilaments and microtubules. There are many other features that set the intermediate filaments system apart from the other cytoskeletal systems. Unlike the other systems, which are composed of one or two different proteins, intermediate filaments can be formed by a relatively large number of different proteins. For example, the primary intermediate filaments found in epithelial cells (such as skin) are formed from pairs of keratins, one basic and one acidic.
Their functions are primarily mechanical and, as a class, intermediate filaments are less dynamic than actin filaments or microtubules. Intermediate filaments commonly work in tandem with microtubules, providing strength and support for the fragile tubulin structures. All cells have intermediate filaments, but the protein subunits of these structures vary. Microtubules are the largest type of filament, with a diameter of about 25 nanometers (nm), and they are composed of a protein called tubulin. Actin filaments are the smallest type, with a diameter of only about 6 nm, and they are made of a protein called actin.
What is the function of the intermediate filament?   Perhaps the most  important function of intermediate filaments is to provide  mechanical support for the plasma membrane where it comes into  contact with other cells … or with the extracellular matrix. Unlike  microfilaments and microtubules, intermediate filaments do not  participate in cell motility.
In many types of cells, networks of actin filaments are found beneath the cell cortex, which is the meshwork of membrane-associated proteins that supports and strengthens the plasma membrane. Such networks allow cells to hold — and move — specialized shapes, such as the brush border of microvilli. Microtubules are the largest type of filament, with a diameter of about 25 nanometers (nm), and they are composed of a protein called tubulin. Actin filaments are the smallest type, with a diameter of only about 6 nm, and they are made of a protein called actin.
Microfilaments. The microfilament system is a network of filaments 6 nanometers (nm) in diameter that are important for anchoring plasma membrane proteins, for producing cell movement, and for cell division. The base filament is composed of a protein called actin that is 42 kilodaltons (kd) in weight. Unlike the other systems, which are composed of one or two different proteins, intermediate filaments can be formed by a relatively large number of different proteins. For example, the primary intermediate filaments found in epithelial cells (such as skin) are formed from pairs of keratins, one basic and one acidic.
Intermediate Filaments. Intermediate filaments are important components of the cell's cytoskeletal system. They may stabilize organelles, like the nucleus, or they may be involved in specialized junctions. The intermediate filaments can be dissociated by urea. There are five different types of Intermediate filaments: 1  Types I and II: Acidic Keratin and Basic Keratin, respectively. 2  Produced by different types of epithelial cells (bladder, skin, etc).
The cytoskeleton of a cell is made up of microtubules, actin filaments, and intermediate filaments. These structures give the cell its shape and help organize the cell's parts. In addition, they provide a basis for movement and cell division. Microtubules are the largest type of filament, with a diameter of about 25 nanometers (nm), and they are composed of a protein called tubulin. Actin filaments are the smallest type, with a diameter of only about 6 nm, and they are made of a protein called actin.