How to Whiten Your Teeth with Banana Peel. Using banana peel to whiten teeth is the latest trend among advocates of natural dental care. If you'd like to try this cheap, natural method of teeth whitening, start with Step 1 below. Once the ten minutes are up, take a dry toothbrush and use it to brush the banana paste into your teeth. 1  Brush using gentle circular motions, for between one and three minutes. 2  This will help to get it into all the little nooks and crannies! 3  Then wet your toothbrush and use it to rinse the banana paste from
Try some other natural teeth whitening remedies. If banana isn't really your thing, you can turn to other natural remedies for whitening your teeth: 1  Use strawberries and baking soda: A paste made from mushed up strawberries and baking soda helps to clear away surface stains and remove plaque. Once the ten minutes are up, take a dry toothbrush and use it to brush the banana paste into your teeth. 1  Brush using gentle circular motions, for between one and three minutes. 2  This will help to get it into all the little nooks and crannies! 3  Then wet your toothbrush and use it to rinse the banana paste from
Rub the inside of the banana peel against your top and bottom teeth, until they are completely coated in a layer of banana paste. 1  Once your teeth are coated, sit back and let the banana paste work its magic for approximately ten minutes. Once the ten minutes are up, take a dry toothbrush and use it to brush the banana paste into your teeth. 1  Brush using gentle circular motions, for between one and three minutes. 2  This will help to get it into all the little nooks and crannies! 3  Then wet your toothbrush and use it to rinse the banana paste from
Gently rub on teeth. Take a piece of the inside of the banana peel and gently rub around on your teeth for about 2 minutes. The amazing minerals in the peel like potassium, magnesium and manganese absorb into your teeth and whiten them. Repeat the same procedure at night or before bedtime, to white
I just had to share this lovely tip: to whiten your teeth at home, rub the inside part of a banana peel on them for around two minutes. The whitening effect is subtle, but noticeable -- even more so when you do this every day for a week or two. Yellow bananas are best for this! Brush your teeth before so that you are rubbing the skin on your clean teeth and not on food remains. If you want to brush your teeth afterwards too, let the banana peel stuff sit on your teeth for a minute or two first. Also, the banana peel is actually good for your teeth because it contains minerals and is not acidic. (Brushing your teeth with strawberry pulp damages the enamel because strawberries are too acidic). Also, there is absolutely no pain or sensitivity involved with a banana. Other at-home whitening remedies which can work is swishing hydrogen peroxide.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: -Brush your teeth as usual with a natural toothpaste or you can use the banana peel first and then brush. -Use a ripe banana as it has the most potassium content in it. Peel from the bottom end as this is how monkeys peel their bananas and it will keep you from having all those loose threads. -Gently rub on teeth-Take a piece of the inside of the banana peel and gently rub around on your teeth for about 2 minutes. *The amazing minerals in the peel like potassium, magnesium and manganese absorb into your teeth and whiten them
BANANA PEEL. True: You can eat a banana and give your teeth a quick buff with the peel before running off to a meeting. CLAIM: High levels of potassium, magnesium and manganese in bananas can help remove stains from teeth. Simply peel a ripe banana, and rub your teeth with the insides of the peel for about two minutes. False: Acidic cider vinegar can make the enamel on your teeth less resistant to damage, so avoid this one. CLAIM: Rinsing with apple cider vinegar (mixed two parts of water) will make teeth whiter and protect teeth and gums from bacteria. VERDICT: FALSE.
Brush your teeth as usual with a natural toothpaste or you can use the banana peel first and then brush. Use a ripe banana as it has the most potassium content in it. Peel from the bottom end as this is how monkeys peel their bananas and it will keep you from having all those loose threads. Take a piece of the inside of the banana peel and gently rub around on your teeth for about 2 minutes. The amazing minerals in the peel like potassium, magnesium and manganese absorb into your teeth and whiten them.
Once the ten minutes are up, take a dry toothbrush and use it to brush the banana paste into your teeth. 1  Brush using gentle circular motions, for between one and three minutes. 2  Then wet your toothbrush and use it to rinse the banana paste from your teeth. Once the ten minutes are up, take a dry toothbrush and use it to brush the banana paste into your teeth. 1  Brush using gentle circular motions, for between one and three minutes. 2  This will help to get it into all the little nooks and crannies! 3