Canada: Becoming A Nation Independence is what makes us different from others. It's something unique and special to have and maintain. Canada's independence from Britain is a defining moment. With passing of British North Act in 1867, Canada became a dominion in the British Commonwealth and this did not mean that it was a fully independent country. Canada evolves over the years to become a one of the best countries. 
The process of Canada becoming an independent nation was a gradual  one. Over a hundred years Canada continued to assert its  independence from Britain through actions such … as building their  own navy. Canada officially became a country in 1982. 2 people found this useful. Making the world better, one answer at a time. It happened gradually over time. In 1867 Canada did officially become a country but under the British Crown it still had colonial status.
It happened over time. Canada was very patient and over time gained their independence. Even though canada is an independent nation the king or queen of England is still like a figure head in Canada. They pay him/her respect but they can not do anyting. 
There are a number of events that contributed to Canada's full independence. The British North America Act (1867) created the self-governing Dominion. Britain continued to manage Canada's international affairs. Many agree Canada became a nation in its own right through its contribution in World War I. Canada automatically entered the war when Britain declared war on Germany. At the end of the war Canada signed the Treaty of Versailles (1919) as a nation, and became a member of the League of Nations. The Statute of Westminster (1931) was a large contributor to Canada's Independence
Canada became a country in 1867, but the story of the people and the land that would become Canada is much older. Many events over the last five hundred years have shaped the way Canada looked at the time of Confederation. In the 1500s explorers from Europe came to North America to claim lands. 
World War One helped Canada become an independent nation World War 1 definitly shaped Canada's identity. Canadian troops at the Battle of Ypres. Injured Canadian troops at the Battle of Somme. Thanks for looking at this presentation!!!!! Canada was starting to become an independent nation after WW1. 
The history of Canada dates back to the arrival of Paleo-Indians, and its territory has been inhabited by Aboriginal peoples for millennia. However, it was only in 1867 when Canada became a unified nation under the name Dominion of Canada. Canada was under British rule during the period of 1763 1867. The Treaty of Paris was signed in 1763 and under it, France ceded a large portion of its territory in present day Canada. The British rulers protected the political, religious, and social culture and property of the French-speaking habitants
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The process of Canada becoming an independent nation was a gradual one. Over a hundred years Canada continued to assert its independence from Britain through actions such as building their own navy. Canada officially became a country in 1982. Canada, the first country to be created by legislation, was formed as an independent nation on July 1, 1867, through the union of Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, and the pre-Confe … deration Province of Canada. Answered. In History of Canada.