Clayton Antitrust Act. Clayton Antitrust Act, 1914, passed by the U.S. Congress as an amendment to clarify and supplement the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890. It was drafted by Henry De Lamar Clayton. 1 Clayton Antitrust Act: meaning and definitions-Clayton Antitrust Act: Definition and Pronunciation. 2  Sherman Antitrust Act: meaning and definitions-Sherma
That regime started with the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890, the first Federal law outlawing practices considered harmful to consumers (monopolies, cartels, and trusts). The Clayton Act specified particular prohibited conduct, the three-level enforcement scheme, the exemptions, and the remedial measures. Like the Sherman Act, much of the substance of the Clayton Act has been developed and animated by the U.S. courts, particularly the Supreme Court.
1914, passed by the U.S. Congress as an amendment to clarify and supplement the Sherman Antitrust Act Sherman Antitrust Act,1890, first measure passed by the U.S. Congress to prohibit trusts; it was named for Senator John Sherman. 
An amendment passed by the U.S. Congress in 1914 that provides further clarification and substance to the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890. The Clayton Antitrust Act attempts to prohibit certain actions that lead to anti-competitiveness. The Clayton Antitrust Act provides barriers to a broad range of anti-competitiveness issues.
Definition. An amendment, passed by the U.S. Congress in 1914, meant to further promote competition in U.S. businesses and discourage the formation of monopolies. This act prohibited price discrimination, price fixing, and exclusive sales contracts. The act also legalized peaceful strikes and boycotts against companies. Many top business companies in the communications industry have faced scrutiny due to the Clayton Antitrust Act when seeking to merge their companies in an effort to become the major player in their market. 2 people found this helpful.
The Clayton Antitrust Act of 1914 (Pub.L. 63–212, 38 Stat. 730, enacted October 15, 1914, codified at 15 U.S.C. The Clayton Act specified particular prohibited conduct, the three-level enforcement scheme, the exemptions, and the remedial measures. Like the Sherman Act, much of the substance of the Clayton Act has been developed and animated by the U.S. courts, particularly the Supreme Court.
Sen. John Sherman (R – OH), the principal author of the Sherman Antitrust Act. The Sherman Antitrust Act (Sherman Act, 26 Stat. 209, 15 U.S.C. §§ 1 – 7) is a landmark federal statute in the history of United States antitrust law (or  competition law ) passed by Congress in 1890. 
DEFINITION of 'Clayton Antitrust Act'. An amendment passed by the U.S. Congress in 1914 that provides further clarification and substance to the Sherman Antitrust Act of 1890. The Clayton Antitrust Act attempts to prohibit certain actions that lead to anti-competitiveness. Next Up. The Clayton Antitrust Act provides barriers to a broad range of anti-competitiveness issues.
A federal law enacted in 1914 as an amendment to the Sherman Anti-Trust Act (15 U.S.C.A. § 1 et seq. [1890]), prohibiting undue restriction of trade and commerce by designated methods. The Clayton Act (15 U.S.C.A. § 12 et seq. [1914]) was originally enacted to exempt unions from the scope of antitrust laws by refusing to treat human labor as a commodity or an article of commerce.