Varieties of Robiola are produced across Piedmont from the provinces of Cuneo, Asti and Alessandria and into Lombardy. It is one of the specialties of the Aosta Valley. The taste and appearance of Robiola varies depending upon where it was produced. However, in his Summa Lacticiniorum, the fifteenth-century dairy produce expert Pantaleone da Confienza did describe the manufacture, and praise the quality, of a cheese with this name. Robiola is generally served as a table cheese, either alone or with oil, salt and pepper. It must be stored properly after being purchased, and will keep fresh for up to one month. Its tangy taste is attributable to being infused with the wild herbs on which the animals pasture
Please try again later. Learn how to make your own stracchino cheese, when you are in a place where it is not available (ie. outside northern Italy). Does not take an amazing kitchen, like they use in cooking shows :). Best to watch in 480p.  1 Land Of Canaan by Therion (Google Play • eMusic • AmazonMP3). 2  Education.
Crescenza. Crescenza cheese, also known as Stracchino, is a type of Italian fresh cheese, typical of Lombardy, Piedmont, and Veneto. The name 'Crescenza' is derived from the Italian word 'stracca', which means 'tired' in English. Crescenza is a very soft cheese with creamy, spreadable texture and no rind. It usually has a mild and delicate flavour. This rich, fresh cheese is ideally eaten on its own or paired with fresh rocket salad and prosciutto. It is also used on pizzas, in risottos or baked in focaccia. As a part of cheese board, Crescenza is usually served besides a selection of jams and honey
Robiola is an Italian soft-ripened cheese of the Stracchino family. It is from the Langhe region and made with varying proportions of cow’s, goat’s milk and sheep milk. However, in his Summa Lacticiniorum, the fifteenth-century dairy produce expert Pantaleone da Confienza did describe the manufacture, and praise the quality, of a cheese with this name. Robiola is generally served as a table cheese, either alone or with oil, salt and pepper. It must be stored properly after being purchased, and will keep fresh for up to one month. Its tangy taste is attributable to being infused with the wild herbs on which the animals pasture
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Stracchino. Stracchino also known as crescenza is a type of Italian cow’s-milk cheese, typical of Lombardy, Piedmont, and Veneto. It is eaten very young, has no rind and a very soft, creamy texture and normally a mild and delicate flavour. It is normally square in form. The name of the cheese derives from the Lombard word stracch, meaning tired.
1 Stracchino-cow-gets its name from the word 'tired' (in Lombard dialect: stracco), referring to the fact that used to be made from the milk of cows who were tired because of the transhumance to the valley after the alpine summer. 2  Caprino-goat-an aged version also exists. 3  Bel Paese (trade mark) - cow -. Since the area of origin is a big part of what defines each cheese's properties, many Italian cheeses have a protected denomination under European Union law (PDO - Protected Designation of Origin, or DOP - Denominazione di Origine Protetta in Italian).
1 Drop about 6 tablespoons of crescenza-stracchino cheese onto the stretched dough, spreading the dollops out evenly. 2  Roll out another piece of dough as before, stretching to fit over the first dough sheet and cheese. 3  Stretch, pull, and seal dough as before so the cheese is enclosed between the 2 sheets of dough. 