Adipose tissue, more commonly known as fat, is a type of connective tissue. Muscles utilize numerous kinds of connective tissues. Human ears are made of cartilage. A large part of the dermis is made up of dense irregular connective tissue. Pregnant women tend to develop additional deposits of adipose tissue.
The two types of cells found in connective tissue include fibrocytes (or fibroblasts) and fat cells, which are fixed cells. Additionally, the extracellular substance separating the cells is made up of three types of fibers, including collagen fibers, reticular fibers and elastic fibers.
Connective tissue is one of the four main types of tissue that make up the body. These fibrous groups of cells are found throughout the body and hold together the other types of tissues, including muscles, nerves, and epithelium.
Ad. Fat, or adipose tissue, is also considered one of the types of connective tissue. These cells are typically found in close proximity to loose connective tissue. The primary purpose of the adipose cells is to provide storage for fat that the body can use for energy.
Dense connective tissue, or collagen, has a much more closely woven matrix than loose connective tissue. The two varieties of this type are called regular and irregular. Tendons and ligaments are considered regular types, with the collagen fibers running parallel to each other to form the structure.
Cartilage is a type of supporting connective tissue. Cartilage is a dense connective tissue, consisting of the chondrocyte cells. Cartilage connective tissue includes hyaline cartilage, fibrocartilage and elastic cartilage. The fibers in the cartilage connective tissue include collagen and elastic fibers.
Bones are a fourth example of connective tissue. Bones are made up of different types of connective tissue, including bone tissue and marrow. Bone tissue is either spongy or compact depending on the organization of the cells and matrix.
Specialised connective tissue includes tendons and ligaments, Bone and Cartilage, haemopoetic tissue, blood and adipose tissue. Bone contains Osteocytes, and osteoblasts (osteo-bone) which secrete the type of extracellular matrix material (ECM) that makes up bone.
Areolar and reticular tissue are types of loose connective tissue that provide support, as well as fill up unused spaces in the body. Blood, a fluid connective tissue, provides a transport system within our body for oxygen and other important substances.