The skeletal system includes all of the bones and joints in the body. Each bone is a complex living organ that is made up of many cells, protein fibers, and minerals. The skeleton acts as a scaffold by providing support and protection for the soft tissues that make up the rest of the body. The skeletal system also provides attachment points for muscles to allow movements at the joints. New blood cells are produced by the red bone marrow inside of our bones.
Three types of muscles. The muscular system can be broken down into three types of muscles: skeletal, smooth and cardiac, according to the NIH. Skeletal muscles are the only voluntary muscle tissue in the human body and control every action that a person consciously performs. Most skeletal muscles are attached to two bones across a joint, so the muscle serves to move parts of those bones closer to each other, according to The Merck Manual. Muscles also can be identified by their function. The flexor group of the forearm flexes the wrist and the fingers. The supinator is a muscle that allows you to roll your wrist over to face palm up. Adductor muscles in the legs adduct, or pull together, the limbs
The adult human skeletal system consists of 206 bones, as well as a network of tendons, ligaments and cartilage that connects them. The skeletal system performs vital functions — support, movement, protection, blood cell production, calcium storage and endocrine regulation — that enable us to survive. One of the much rarer diseases of the skeletal system is bone cancer. It may originate in the bones or spread there from another part of the body. In the United States, primary bone cancers accounts for less than 1 percent of all cancer cases, according to the American Cancer Society.
Diseases of the Skeletal System. Osteoporosis. Osteoporosis is a disease of the bones that causes them to be fragile, resulting in fractures. The bones actually become thinner and less dense. This is either due to the body not forming enough new bone, or too much bone being reabsorbed into the body, or both. 
Teeth are considered part of the skeletal system but they are not counted as bones. Teeth are made of dentin and enamel, which is strongest substance in your body. Teeth also play a key role in the digestive system. The skeletal system has two distinctive parts: the axial skeleton and the appendicular skeleton, according to the U.S National Library of Medicine (NLM). The axial skeleton, with a total of 80 bones, consists of the vertebral column, the rib cage and the skull. One of the much rarer diseases of the skeletal system is bone cancer. It may originate in the bones or spread there from another part of the body. In the United States, primary bone cancers accounts for less than 1 percent of all cancer cases, according to the American Cancer Society.
: Knowledge of the structure and function of bones and aspects of skeletal system generally are essential parts of training in human biology, medicine and associated health sciences. This page is intended to include the detail required for most Basic / First Level Courses in many therapies, and some ITEC Diplomas. 
The skeletal system is also susceptible to breaks, strains and fractures. While bones are meant to protect the body’s vital organs, it takes about 10 to 16 pounds of pressure to break an average bone. Bones such as the skull and femur are much tougher to break. One of the much rarer diseases of the skeletal system is bone cancer. It may originate in the bones or spread there from another part of the body. In the United States, primary bone cancers accounts for less than 1 percent of all cancer cases, according to the American Cancer Society.
7. Skeletal System: Bone Structure and Function For the next two chapters (7 and 9) we will study the skeletal system. Although the majorfeature of this system is the bones, the skeletal system also consists of cartilage, ligaments,tendons, and other structures that hold the bones together and stabilize them.
The skeletal system’s primary function is to form a solid framework that supports and protects the body's organs and anchors the skeletal muscles. The bones of the axial skeleton act as a hard shell to protect the internal organs—such as the brain and the heart —from damage caused by external forces. The skeleton acts as a scaffold by providing support and protection for the soft tissues that make up the rest of the body. The skeletal system also provides attachment points for muscles to allow movements at the joints. New blood cells are produced by the red bone marrow inside of our bones.
Muscle function loss occurs when your muscles do not work or move normally. Complete muscle function loss, or paralysis, is a complete loss of muscle function in which your muscles are unable to contract normally. If your muscles lose function, you will be not be able to properly operate the affected part of your body. Loss of muscle function is often caused by a failure in the nerves that send signals from the brain to the muscles, causing them to move. Muscle function tends to occur in what are called voluntary muscles.