Meaning of Jareth. English name. In English, the name Jareth means-Bled of Jar or Jer and Gareth.. Other origins for the name Jareth include-English, African.The name Jareth is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-Bled of Jar or Jer and Gareth. Origin-English
Jareth is an uncommonly occurring given name for males. Jareth is an uncommon surname too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Garret, Garth and Gary (#560 a year ago) are the prominent varying forms of Jareth (not ranked) appearing in the Top 1000. Variants like Garith are seldom used
African name. In African, the name Jareth means-blend of jar and gareth. Other origins for the name Jareth include-African, English.The name Jareth is most often used as a boy name or male name. African Name Meaning-blend of jar and gareth.
Gareth /ga-reth/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced GARE-eth. It is of Celtic origin, and the meaning of Gareth is gentle. Sir Gareth, noted for his modesty and bravery, was a knight of King Arthur's Round Table. Literary: the name appeared in the 15th century in Sir Thomas Malory's Le Morte D'Arthur. 
Origin of the name Gareth: Of uncertain origin and meaning, Gareth is first noted in Sir Thomas Malory's Morte d' Arthur, a collection of Arthurian tales, which were taken mostly from French sources. In this, Sir Gareth was the name used for Sir Gawain, a knight of the Round Table and nephew of King Arthur. It is unclear where Malory derived the name. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman
Probably a blend of JARED and GARETH. This was the name of the Goblin King, played by David Bowie, in the movie 'Labyrinth' (1986). 
Jareth is also a variant form of the English Jarrett. Variant forms of Jareth include the name Jarethe, the English Jarey, the English Jarith, the name Jarreth, the name Jarrethe, the name Jereth, the name Jerethe, the name Jerreth, and the name Jerrethe. Jareth is not commonly used as a baby boy name. It is not in the top 1000 names. [ 2 syll. ja-ret(h) , jar-e- th ] The baby boy name Jareth is pronounced JH AE R-ah-TH or JH EH R-ah-TH in English †. Jareth's language of origin is Welsh and English-American. It is predominantly used in English. The name is a modern invention, probably from the combination of Jared and Gareth
Jareth /ja-reth/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced JARE-eth. It is of American origin. Blend of Jar-or Jer-and Gareth, or a variant of Jarah. Jareth is an uncommon surname too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Garret, Garth and Gary (#560 a year ago) are the prominent varying forms of Jareth (not ranked) appearing in the Top 1000.
Meaning of Jareth. African name. In African, the name Jareth means-blend of jar and gareth. Other origins for the name Jareth include-African, English.The name Jareth is most often used as a boy name or male name. African Name Meaning-blend of jar and gareth. Origin-Africa