1 Stock cabinets come pre-made in specific styles, shapes and finishes. 2  A lot depends on the size and shape of your kitchen and the total linear feet of cabinets needed. 3  Basic cabinets (top and bottom) for a 10x12-foot kitchen start at $4,000-$5,000 and up, not including installation and countertops. 
A painting contractor will charge $555 to prepare, prime and paint 150-square-feet of base and wall-hung wood cabinets with one coat of alkyd paint. This includes labor and material. You can do it yourself for $60, the cost of the materials-sandpaper, deglosser, primer, paint and brush-and earn an 80 percent saving. It'll cost more in time and money to paint the interior of the cabinets because the insides have much more surface to cover than the outside. 1 Painting/Finishing.  Cost to Paint Kitchen Cabinets. Find the average cost to paint kitchen cabinets yourself compared to the labor and material cost of hiring a contractor. Use your ZIP Code to adjust the cost to where you live so you can decide to do it yourself or hire a pro.
Cost to Paint Kitchen Cabinets-Notes and General Information. Homewyse cost estimates are ballpark ranges for basic work performed in normal, serviceable conditions. The estimates should only be used for preliminary planning. Homewyse estimates are NOT substitutes for firm quotes from qualified vendors. 1 General contractor overhead and markup for organizing and supervising the Kitchen Cabinet Painting. 2  Add 15% to 23% to the total cost above if a general contractor will supervise this project.
The 2-5K estimate is spot on. Painting cabinets and getting good results takes a LOT of work. I just had a kitchen full of cabinets painted on site and it took two guys about 2 days to sand and paint on one coat. It took 4 coats to get a good finish.
I'd like to answer it by talking about what it would cost if you hired a professional paint company to paint your kitchen cabinets, not doing it yourself. Also there are lots of painters who claim to paint kitchen cabinets for a good price, but in the end, the cabinets turn out looking terrible. Painting is about 75-80% less expensive than refacing or replacing cabinets. So keep this in mind! 1 The cost for this type of service can also range depending on colors selected and the size of one's kitchen. 2  For a standard size kitchen again, lets say the price range might be more like $3,000-3,800.
1 They will not remove your doors, drawers or hardware but will carefully paint your cabinets in place. 2  If you have a rental property, this is probably your least expensive option. 3  For a standard kitchen, prices could range from $1,000-1,800 for this type of work. 1 The cost for this type of service can also range depending on colors selected and the size of one's kitchen. 2  For a standard size kitchen again, lets say the price range might be more like $3,000-3,800.
The average cost to repaint kitchen cabinets is about $1,000, depending on the number of cabinets you have to paint and the time and labor required to do so. The materials used to paint the kitchen cabinets -- brushes, primer, paint, sanding equipment -- will cost up to $200 if you decide to buy them yourself. If you don't want to sand or scrape away the old paint, just use a deglossing agent, This is especially useful with shiny paint types. The average cost to paint one wall will fall between $100 and $200; the average cost to paint a ceiling will fall between $150 and $300 -- in both cases, this will depend on the paint selected and the square footage. Return to Top. Accent walls allow a homeowner the chance to experiment with a new color.
Do you need to know the average cost to install Paint Kitchen Cabinets in your zip code? Do you need an easy-to-understand 2015 estimate of Kitchen Cabinet Painting job options and costs? Get pricing INSTANTLY. Enter your options and zip code above-then select Update. 
For a basic 120 square feet project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Paint Kitchen Cabinets ranges between $2.98 - $6.08 per square foot* . To estimate costs for your project: 1 General contractor overhead and markup for organizing and supervising the Kitchen Cabinet Painting. 2  Add 15% to 23% to the total cost above if a general contractor will supervise this project.