| wild tarragon. A perennial herb, the wormwood species Artemisia dracunculus, from Europe and parts of Asia. | The leaves of this plant (either fresh, or preserved in vinegar / oil mixture) used as a seasoning. en​.wiktionary​.org​/wiki​/tarragon. 
French Tarragon, also known as estragon, is often used in salad dressings, especially vinaigrettes, and in flavoring mustards and mayonnaise. It is commonly used for making herb butters, and added to many cream soups. If you know and love tarragon, the beautiful, strong, pure, sweet nature of the French tarragon is beyond compare. The elusive flavor of tarragon, sometimes described as bittersweet, does not share the long history of use that most herbs do.
Tarragon is used to flavor a popular carbonated soft drink in the countries of Armenia, Azerbaijan, Georgia and, by extension, Russia, Ukraine and Kazakhstan. Tarragon has an aromatic property reminiscent of anise, due to the presence of estragole, a known carcinogen and teratogen in mice. The European Union investigation revealed that the danger of estragole is minimal even at 100–1,000 times the typical consumption seen in humans.
Tarragon is a hardy perennial herb native to Russia. In Europe there are two main varieties of tarragon: the Russian (Artemisia Draculoides) and the French (Artemisia Dracunculus). The plant can become about 60 – 100 cm (about 1.5 – 3 feet) tall. The French tarragon has a lot more flavor than the Russian. 
Also commonly known as estragon and dragon herb, this perennial plant is native to most of the Northern Hemisphere including Europe, Asia, India, western North America and parts of northern Mexico. 
Tarragon (Artemisia dracunculus) is a species of perennial herb in the sunflower family. It is widespread in the wild across much of Eurasia and North America, and is cultivated for culinary and medicinal purposes in many lands. One sub-species, Artemisia dracunculus var. sativa, is cultivated for use of the leaves as an aromatic culinary herb. Tarragon has an aromatic property reminiscent of anise, due to the presence of estragole, a known carcinogen and teratogen in mice. The European Union investigation revealed that the danger of estragole is minimal even at 100–1,000 times the typical consumption seen in humans.
In Iran, tarragon is used as a side dish in sabzi khordan (fresh herbs), or in stews and in Persian style pickles, particularly 'khiar shoor'. In Slovenia, tarragon is used in a variation of the traditional nut roll sweet cake, called potica. Tarragon has an aromatic property reminiscent of anise, due to the presence of estragole, a known carcinogen and teratogen in mice. The European Union investigation revealed that the danger of estragole is minimal even at 100–1,000 times the typical consumption seen in humans.
It was introduced into the United States in the early 1800s. The name tarragon is a corruption of either the French word estragon or the Arabic word tarkhum - each mean little dragon.. It was used by ancient Greeks for its medicinal properties. The most widely used variety of tarragon comes from France. Greek name and pronunciation: Estragon, εστραγκόν, pronounced es-trah-GON. At the market: Tarragon is sold fresh and dried. Physical characteristics: Fresh (French) tarragon leaves are bright green and approximately 1 long and 1/4-1/2 wide.
This spice is not popular in India, though it grows in certain places in India in wild state. Only recently it is gaining popularity due to western influence. However, it is well known in Europe as a spice and used for flavoring foods. The dried leaves and flowering tops of the plant constitute what is known as Tarragon or Estragon, so well known to the connoisseurs the world over for its unusual intriguing flavor. Sometimes, it is called 'French Tarragon,' its aroma is warm, aromatic and reminiscent of anise. 