Shuttlecock Fern Pests / Problems. Below are member comments regarding how to deal with Shuttlecock Fern's pests and problems. No comments have been posted regarding how to deal with Shuttlecock Fern's pests and problems. 
Easy to grow and awarded an RHS AGM, the shuttlecock fern makes a fabulous architectural addition to borders, woodland gardens and the edges of ponds. Growing best in moist shady areas, this large fern, also known as the ostrich fern, is superb for tricky damp areas of the garden and is incredibly low-maintenance. Slowly spreading by underground rhizomes, Matteuccia struthiopteris is also a good groundcover plant. Height: 1.2m (4'). Spread: 1m (3'). Plant ostrich ferns at the same level as they were in the pot and firm in, watering well to settle the soil. Water fern plants regularly during periods of hot and dry weather. Remove dead fronds in early spring and apply a mulch of well-rotted manure or compost around the crown of each plant.
Shuttlecock Ferns which grows up to 60 inches – lance shaped fronds are produced in Spring producing beautiful erect shuttlecocks – ideal for next to a pond. MICROLEPIA strigosa. Lace Fern. A delicate looking fern that is deceptively hardy. Dryopteris can be deciduous, semi-evergreen or evergreen ferns, with stout, erect or decumbent rhizomes and shuttlecock-like rosettes of lance-shaped to ovate, pinnately divided fronds. Semi-evergreen fern to 75cm, forming a compact clump of broadly ovate, bipinnatifid fronds, often coppery-pink when young.
A hardy deciduous fern producing elegant lime green fronds which unfurl gracefully in spring, giving the plant a shuttlecock-like appearance. Plant ostrich ferns at the same level as they were in the pot and firm in, watering well to settle the soil. Water fern plants regularly during periods of hot and dry weather. Remove dead fronds in early spring and apply a mulch of well-rotted manure or compost around the crown of each plant.
Golden Male Fern’ Semi-evergreen hardy fern, producing a ‘shuttlecock’ of dark green lance shaped fronds, Height 60cm best grown in moist humus rich soil in partial shade. DRYOPTERIS Atrata – Shaggy Shield Fern. The clump-forming Shaggy shield fern has large, dark green fronds that unfurl to resemble elephants’ trunks. Dryopteris can be deciduous, semi-evergreen or evergreen ferns, with stout, erect or decumbent rhizomes and shuttlecock-like rosettes of lance-shaped to ovate, pinnately divided fronds. Semi-evergreen fern to 75cm, forming a compact clump of broadly ovate, bipinnatifid fronds, often coppery-pink when young.
Growing Shuttlecock Ferns. My ferns are making a spring comeback and this Ostrich Feather Fern looks like its name. As the fronds uncurl its other common name the Shuttlecock Fern will also be appropriate. However its real name is Matteuccia Struthiopteris the only fern in this particular family. To find out more visit The British Pteridological Society. The fronds distinctive shape make the fern easy to identify.
Gradually acclimatise shuttlecock ferns to outdoor conditions over a period of 7 to 10 days. Grow ostrich ferns in a fertile, moist but well drained soil, in partial or full shade. They prefer a neutral to slightly acid soil which is rich in organic matter. Plant ostrich ferns at the same level as they were in the pot and firm in, watering well to settle the soil. Water fern plants regularly during periods of hot and dry weather. Remove dead fronds in early spring and apply a mulch of well-rotted manure or compost around the crown of each plant.
Spread: 100cm x 60cm. Description: A hardy, decidious fern with upright fronds of bright green. These are tapered at both ends and arranged in a shuttlecock-like cluster, making an ideal ornamental feature for the garden. 
Here is something very unusual and striking to grow in your garden! During spring the shoots grow and as they unfurl they give the plant the appearance of a shuttlecock. Matteuccia Shuttlecock Ferns are fully hardy in the UK and are ideal grown in a sheltered spot. Very low maintenance and great for ground cover. Also known as the Ostrich fern. This has the RHS Award of Garden Merit so is a proven performer. Plant shuttlecock ferns at the same level as they were in the pot and firm in, watering well to settle the soil. Water fern plants regularly during periods of hot and dry weather.