Eurasia. I don't consider Europe and Asia to be continents. The island of Cyprus is in the Mediterranean on the Eurasian plate, therefore it's part of Eurasia. Historically, I would consider it a part of Europe, because its history is more Greek than Turkish. And there is no continent called Oceania, Oceania is a region
Confidence votes 10.0K. Being an island, Cyprus isn't directly connected to any continent. It's politically part of Europe (Cyprus joined the EU in 2004), but its nearest large land mass is Asia (it's 75km from Turkey) and it's also close to Africa and the middle-east. Most Cypriots would probably say they were Europeans. Cyprus is in Europe. Is one of the 27 nations in Europe I think you're getting Europe confused with the EU. The EU is an economic union and has 27 members-Cyprus being on … of them. Europe is a continent. Cyprus is a part of Europe. As of the EU....EU means European Union
Cyprus is in Europe. Is one of the 27 nations in Europe I think you're getting Europe confused with the EU. The EU is an economic union and has 27 members-Cyprus being on … of them. Europe is a continent. Cyprus is a part of Europe. As of the EU....EU means European Union.
The given Cyprus location map shows that Cyprus is located in the south-eastern side of Europe and western side of Turkey (Asia); however, Cyprus is also considered as Eurasian country. Cyprus map also shows that Cyprus is an island located in the eastern Mediterranean Sea. Surprisingly, the small island country has very high income economy along with high Human Development Index. It is one of the favorite destinations for tourists
Larnaca is a city/town with a small population in the country of Cyprus which is located in the continent/region of Europe. Cities, towns and places near Larnaca include Kitium, Citium, Kittim and Chittim. The closest major cities include Bayrut, Beirut, Mersin and Tarsus. 
Cyprus is a country with a small population which is located in the continent/region of Europe. Countries near Cyprus include Lebanon, Palestine, Turkey and Israel. Its biggest cities and towns include Lemesos, Larnaca, Gazimagusa and Nicosia. 
Being an island, Cyprus isn't directly connected to any continent. It's politically part of Europe (Cyprus joined the EU in 2004), but its nearest large land mass is Asi … a (it's 75km from Turkey) and it's also close to Africa and the middle-east. Most Cypriots would probably say they were Europeans. The EU is an economic union and has 27 members-Cyprus being on … of them. Europe is a continent. Cyprus is a part of Europe. As of the EU....EU means European Union.
http://wiki.answers.com/Q/What_continent_is_Cyprus_in. http://europa.eu/abc/european_countries/eu_members/cyprus/index_en.htm zbeckabee replies: Cyprus is a Eurasian island country situated in the eastern Mediterranean, south of Turkey, west of Lebanon, Syria, and Israel, east of Greece, and north of Egypt. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyprus#Geography. Cyprus is geographically in Western Asia (or the Near East), though politically and culturally it is considered as being in Europe. Historically, Cyprus has always been a bridgehead between Europe and Asia, with interchanging periods of Levantine, Anatolian, and Greek influences.