Definition. noun, plural: Okazaki fragments. Relatively short fragment of DNA synthesized on the lagging strand during DNA replication. Supplement. At the start of DNA replication, DNA unwinds and the two strands splits in two, forming two prongs which resemble a fork (thus, called replication fork).
Regarding the lagging strand, the result of this strand's discontinuous replication is the production of a series of short sections of DNA called Okazaki fragments. Experimental Proof: Each Okazaki fragment is initiated near the replication fork at an RNA primer created by primase, and extended by DNA polymerase III.eport Abuse. An Okazaki fragment is a relatively short fragment of DNA (with an RNA primer at the 5' terminus) created on the lagging strand during DNA replication.
Processing of Okazaki fragments is therefore very common and crucial for DNA replication and cell proliferation. During this process, RNA and DNA primers are removed, allowing the Okazaki fragments to attach to the lagging DNA strand.he experiments (see below) were conducted during the 1960s with Reiji Okazaki, Tsuneko Okazaki, Kiwako Sakabe and their colleagues during their research on DNA replication of Escherichia coli. In 1966, Kiwako Sakabe and Reiji Okazaki first showed that DNA replication was a discontinuous process involving fragments.
Report Abuse. An Okazaki fragment is a relatively short fragment of DNA (with an RNA primer at the 5' terminus) created on the lagging strand during DNA replication. It was originally discovered in 1968 by Reiji Okazaki, Tsuneko Okazaki, and their colleagues while studying replication of bacteriophage DNA in Escherichia coli. 
What are okazaki fragments? Okazaki fragments are short DNA formed on the lagging strand during the process of DNA replication. You must see videos below:
Advertisement Upgrade to remove ads. DNA REPLICATION: Before the lagging-strand DNA exits the replication factory, its RNA primers must be removed and the Okazaki fragments must be joined together to create a continuous DNA strand. The first step is the removal of the RNA primer.
Best Answer: Okazaki fragments are the small DNA pieces formed between RNA primers during discontinuous replication on the lagging strand. Basically, because DNA Polymerase can only work in one direction (it needs an open 3' end to add nucleotides to), it can't just add nucleotides to the side that has an open 5' end. 
Okazaki Fragments. Relatively short polymers of DNA that are synthesized in association with replication of what is known as the lagging strand during DNA replication. Semiconservative DNA replication of double-stranded DNA requires more or less simultaneous polymerization of DNA off of two antiparallel DNA templates.he resulting stretch of newly synthesized DNA that is associated with this lagging or discontinuous strand is called an Okazaki fragment. Okazaki fragments, as with DNA replication in general, requires RNA priming, which serves as the beginning of
Confidence votes 9.4K. Okazaki fragments are created during DNA replication because DNA Polymerase can only add nucleotides in a 5' to 3' direction. This means that one strand (the leading strand) can be continuously created, but the other strand (the lagging strand) runs in the opposite
Okazaki fragments are short, newly synthesized DNA fragments that are formed on the lagging template strand during DNA replication. Okazaki fragments are short, newly synthesized DNA fragments that are formed on the lagging template strand during DNA replication. They are complementary to the lagging template strand, together forming short double-stranded DNA sections.he experiments (see below) were conducted during the 1960s with Reiji Okazaki, Tsuneko Okazaki, Kiwako Sakabe and their colleagues during their research on DNA replication of Escherichia coli. In 1966, Kiwako Sakabe and Reiji Okazaki first showed that DNA replication was a discontinuous process involving fragments.