1 Copper IUD. 2  The most commonly used IUD is the copper IUD (such as Paragard). 3  Copper wire is wound around the stem of the T-shaped IUD. 4  The copper IUD can stay in place for up to 10 years and is a highly effective form of contraception. 1 The hormonal IUD, such as Mirena or Skyla, releases levonorgestrel, which is a form of the hormone progestin. 2  The hormonal IUD appears to be slightly more effective at preventing pregnancy than the copper IUD. 3  There are two hormonal IUDs—one works for 5 years, and the other works for 3 years. 4 
Intrauterine devices (IUDs), also referred to as intrauterine contraception (IUC) or the intrauterine system (IUS), are long-acting reversible contraceptive method that involves the placement of a small T-shaped device inside the uterus. A polyethylene string is secured to the device, allowing for easy removal. It is placed in the uterus during an office visit. 1  The Copper T IUD is approved for 10 years of use, although studies have shown it to be effective for as long as 20 years.
Two types of IUD are available in the United States. One type contains copper (brand name: Paragard). The other type releases a small amount of the hormone progestin (brand names: Mirena and Skyla). The copper IUD prevents sperm from reaching and fertilizing the egg. It may also change the lining of the uteru
The Copper T 380A (brand name ParaGard ®) is a non-hormonal IUD (another IUD available in the US, brand name Mirena ® , contains the hormone levonorgestrel). IUDs have among of the highest patient satisfaction and continuation rates. 18. A polyethylene string is secured to the device, allowing for easy removal. It is placed in the uterus during an office visit. 1  The Copper T IUD is approved for 10 years of use, although studies have shown it to be effective for as long as 20 years.
IUD Copper. An Intra-Uterine Device (IUD) is a small, flexible, plastic device placed inside a woman’s uterus. Paragard is the brand-name for a type of IUD that has a tiny piece of copper wire wrapped around the plastic body. Some women choose this IUD because they want a method without artificial hormones. 
A copper IUD (ATC G02 BA) (also intrauterine device, IUD, copper-T, or coil) is a type of intrauterine device. The copper IUD is a type of long-acting reversible contraception and is one of the most effective forms of birth control. It is also the most effective nonhormonal contraceptive device. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, the most important medication needed in a basic health system. Copper IUDs are a form of long-acting reversible contraception and are one of the most effective forms of birth control available. The type of frame and amount of copper can affect the effectiveness of different copper IUD models. The failure rates for different models vary between 0.1 and 2.2% after 1 year of use
Best Answer: there is no other brand name except Mirena.. There is also the copper IUD called ParaGuard.. It's not the same as the Mirena tho. ParaGuard is non hormonal and lasts for up to 10 years instead of 5 years... that is really retarded that your insurance wont pay for the IUD but will pay for an abortion!..
Currently, there are two IUD options are available in the U.S: the ParaGard and the Mirena. Tapestry Health offers both contraceptive options. The ParaGard IUD (a brand name for the Intrauterine Copper Contraceptive Model T38OA) has an approved duration of use for 10 years. Unlike previous copper IUDs, the ParaGard contains copper on the arms of the T as well as on the stem, thus increasing its effectiveness by introducing more copper higher into the uterus.
1 The Copper T IUD is approved for 10 years of use, although studies have shown it to be effective for as long as 20 years. 2  19. 3  The device causes an immune response that creates a hostile environment for sperm, thereby preventing fertilization of an ovum. A polyethylene string is secured to the device, allowing for easy removal. It is placed in the uterus during an office visit. 1 