As this site also functions as a graphic smiley database – when you click on a smiley expression – you will be taken to our search interface to find the graphical representation of the text emoticon that you have selected. Enjoy! Part 1 out of 2 (Go to part 2). How to use this list? Browsing the complete file can be a very daunting task – My recommendation is to use your browser’s find function (usually CTRL+F on a PC or CMD+F on a Mac), and find the text emoticon that expresses your current feeling or mood.
Here are some of the more common emoticons-more emoticons & text lingo can be fount at http://textmeanings.com/emoticons. A-Emoticon Meaning. 0:) Angel/angelic. upset emoticon Angry/screaming. :-|| Angry. gasp emoticon Appalled. frown emoticon Very angry. B-Emoticon Meaning. 
The :-) notation is known as a smiley, and means that the statement it follows was intended as humor. When you tilt your head to the side, you see that: is the eyes, - the optional nose, and) is the mouth. A statement meant to be humorous might be found offensive if taken seriously, and thus punctuation such as the smiley is used to avoid misinterpretation. Many other similar symbols are used to convey emotion; see Wikipedia's List of emoticons.
These are commonly known as emoji although the term kaomoji is more correct. Emoticons can generally be divided into three groups: Western or horizontal (mainly from America and Europe), Eastern or vertical (mainly from east Asia), and 2channel style (originally used on 2channel and other Japanese message boards). The Western use of emoticons is quite different from Eastern usage, and Internet forums, such as 2channel, typically show expressions in their own ways. In recent times, graphic representations, both static and animated, have taken the place of traditional emoticons in the form of icons.
Here's the right emoticon for you, whether you're texting or Gchatting. When it comes to emoticons, usually less is more. But it's a whole new ball game when you're trying to get your flirt on. A study of more than 4,000 online daters by Zoosk.com revealed that emoticons really do matter. Winky: Perhaps the most classic in the emoticon arsenal, Winky is a fan favorite and for good reason. It sends a straightforward message that you are detecting the underlying innuendo behind his words, and that you like it. A lot.
It means Kiss. You can find the definition for this emoticon and thousands of others at ChatSlang.com: http://www.chatslang.com/emoticon/kiss It's also an emoticon shortcut that inserts a Kiss smiley in Facebook, Gmail, and Skype chat (also listed on the ChatSlang.com Kiss page). 
A smiley face, also called a text smiley, smiley or emoticon, is ordinary characters used in text-based communications to represent a human facial expression to convey emotion, much in the same way we use facial expressions and different voice tones when we communicate face-to-face with people. How to Make A Text Smiley Face. To create a text smiley face you use standard characters and punctuation marks in sequences that look like human facial expressions. Smiley face text are all sideways. Here are some basics to get you started with understanding what different characters used in smiley faces mean:
Top Definition. emoticon. An emoticon, sometimes called a smiley, is a sequence of printable characters such as :) or ^_^, that is intended to represent a human facial expression and convey an emotion. Use in internet forums and instant-messaging
This should be quite useful – People currently use ASCII Emoticons in chat rooms, Emails and cellular phones SMS Messages. Often times I also get questions about this or that unique smiley: “What does this text emoticon mean?” – and finally, here is my complete answer :). How to use this list? Browsing the complete file can be a very daunting task – My recommendation is to use your browser’s find function (usually CTRL+F on a PC or CMD+F on a Mac), and find the text emoticon that expresses your current feeling or mood.
A simple smiley. This is a list of notable and commonly used emoticons or textual portrayals of a writer's moods or facial expressions in the form of icons. The Western use of emoticons is quite different from Eastern usage, and Internet forums, such as 2channel, typically show expressions in their own ways. In recent times, graphic representations, both static and animated, have taken the place of traditional emoticons in the form of icons.