Here are the primary mountain ranges in California: Basin and Range is a series of mountains and valleys that include the oldest lake in North America, Mono Lake. The deepest valley in North America is Owens Valley, is more than 10,000 feet deep measured from the mountain peak at Mt. Whitney. Klamath Mountains The Klamath Mountains are a mountain range in northwest California and southwest Oregon, the highest peak being Thompson Peak, 9,002 ft., in Trinity County, California. They have a very varied geology, with substantial areas of serpentine and marble, and a climate summers with limited rainfall.
The major mountain range in the state of California is the Sierra Nevada mountain range. The foothills area of this mountain comprises much of California's Gold Rush trail. The same foothills now turn over a new leaf with a different type of gold--winery grapes. Klamath Mountains The Klamath Mountains are a mountain range in northwest California and southwest Oregon, the highest peak being Thompson Peak, 9,002 ft., in Trinity County, California. They have a very varied geology, with substantial areas of serpentine and marble, and a climate summers with limited rainfall.
What is the mountain range located in the stages of California and Nevada between the California Central Valley and the basin and range province. The Sierra Nevada is the mountain range that is between the Central Valley depression and the Basin and Range Provice.
There are two major ranges of mountains in California: The Sierra Nevada and the Coast Ranges. The Coast Ranges of California average less than 4,000 feet in height. They follow an 800-mile course which begins in the northwest corner of Del Norte County and continues south to the Mexican border. The Mount Shasta Volcano is situated at the northern extremity of the Sierra Nevada. In his book the mountains of California, the naturalist John Muir has written extensively on this impressive mountain. Indeed, he had good reason to do so.
the Andes mountain range is located in the western part of south America, running from the north to the south the latitude is 10 degrees north to 57 degrees south and the long … itude is 70 degrees west to 80 degrees east. 4 people found this useful. Answered. In Science. 
the Andes mountain range is located in the western part of south America, running from the north to the south the latitude is 10 degrees north to 57 degrees south and the long … itude is 70 degrees west to 80 degrees east. 4 people found this useful. 
The highest peak in the contiguous U.S. is Mount Whitney at 14,505 feet, located within the Sierra Nevada in California. Klamath Mountains The Klamath Mountains are a mountain range in northwest California and southwest Oregon, the highest peak being Thompson Peak, 9,002 ft., in Trinity County, California. They have a very varied geology, with substantial areas of serpentine and marble, and a climate summers with limited rainfall.
South of the Cascade Mountains and the Modoc Plateau, is the Sierra Nevada mountain range. The Sierra Nevada range, a batholitic landform, runs for over 400 miles from north to south. At 14,494 feet, Mt. Whitney is the highest elevation in all the 48 lower states of the USA. The cities of Los Angeles and San Diego are located in this region. East of the basin are the mountain ranges. The Peninsular Ranges are made up of the Laguna Mountains, the Palomar Mountain Range, the Santa Ana Mountains, the San Jacinto Mountains, and the Santa Rosa Mountains.
Occupying one fifth of the state, the Sierra Nevada is the largest mountain range in California. In late October or early November, the first snowfall whitens the peaks of the Sierra Nevada. Snow then continues to fall heavily throughout the winter. In between storms, the bright California sunshine prevails. The Mount Shasta Volcano is situated at the northern extremity of the Sierra Nevada. In his book the mountains of California, the naturalist John Muir has written extensively on this impressive mountain. Indeed, he had good reason to do so.
Mountain Home Demonstration State Forest (MHDSF) is located in Tulare County in the Southern Sierra Nevada range, 22 miles east of Porterville, California. Mountain Home has several of the largest and oldest giant sequoia trees in the world with some reaching 240 feet tall and 27 feet in diameter. 