Recombination can occur between any two genes on a chromosome, the amount of crossing over is a function of how close the genes are to each other on the chromosome. If two genes are far apart, for example at opposite ends of the chromosome, crossover and non-crossover events will occur in equal frequency. Now let's determine the linkage distance between the genes pr and vg. We can actually make two estimates because we have the results from coupling and repulsion phases crosses. The coupling phase analyzed a total of 2839 gametes, and of these gametes 305 (151 pr+ vg + 154 pr vg+) gametes were recombinant.
One linkage map unit (LMU) is 1% recombination. Thus, the linkage map distance between two genes is the percentage recombination between those genes. In this case, we have a total of 300 recombinant offspring, out of 2000 total offspring. Map distance is calculated as (# Recombinants)/(Total offspring) X 100. Calculating the map distance, we have a total of 350 recombinants out of 1600 offspring. So the percentage recombination is (350/1600)x100 = 21.875%, so the distance bewteen these two genes is calculated as 21.875 LMU--significantly less than the 23.125 LMU calculated from our three point cross.
If the two genes were unlinked, i e on different chromosomes (or very far away on the same chromosome) then 50% of the time the different chomosomes would go to different cell during meiosis and 50% of the time they go to the same cell. Linkage is a statistical concept. Rf is between 0 and 50%. If so, how many units apart are they on the chromosome. Another question says: Give the percentage of recombination and the map distance between the genes. I would like to know HOW to answer the questions.
The distance between the genes (map units) are equal to the percentage of crossing-over events that occurs between different alleles. Gene mapping, describes the methods used to identify the locus of a gene and the distances between genes. 
The distance between the genes (map units) are equal to the percentage of chromosomal crossover events that occurs between different alleles. Genetic linkage is the tendency of alleles that are located close together on a chromosome to be inherited together during the meiosis phase of sexual reproduction. A genetic map is a map based on the frequencies of recombination between markers during crossover of homologous chromosomes. The greater the frequency of recombination (segregation) between two genetic markers, the further apart they are assumed to be.
The map distance between two genes, measured in centimorgans or map units, equals the percentage recombination frequency between the two genes--the likelihood of offspring with copies of those genes on the same chromosome that come from different parents. Save. dna image by Allyson Ricketts from Fotolia.com. The concept of map distance in a genotype refers to where genes are located on a chromosome but does not refer to physical distance; rather, map distance refers to the tendency for a crossover to occur between genes.
(ie, you will calculate a greater distance between two genes if you are doing a three point cross including a gene between the two in question than if you are doing a simply two point cross. II. Straightforward calculation of the percent recombination between two genes is called a two point cross. See examples. C. Linkage Map Units are not additive, and there is no physical distance which is equal to one LMU. 1. Locations of crossovers are not random; crossovers are repressed close to the centromere, and the presence of one crossover will repress a second one close by. 2