One of the major languages of the world, German is the first language of about 95 million people worldwide and the most widely spoken native language in the European Union. At the same time, the effectiveness of the German language in forming equivalents for foreign words from its inherited Germanic stem repertory is great. Thus, Notker Labeo was able to translate Aristotelian treatises in pure (Old High) German in the decades after the year 1000.
1 The language identifier based on the language tagging conventions of RFC 3066. 2  This setting is used with the Deployment Image Servicing and Management (DISM) tool, or in an unattended answer file. 3  Language pack type. 4  The type of language pack, including the base language or required parent language. 
A proportion of German words are derived from Latin and Greek, and fewer are borrowed from French and English. Languages which are most similar to German include Afrikaans, Dutch, English, the Frisian languages, the continental Scandinavian languages and Luxembourgish. At the same time, the effectiveness of the German language in forming equivalents for foreign words from its inherited Germanic stem repertory is great. Thus, Notker Labeo was able to translate Aristotelian treatises in pure (Old High) German in the decades after the year 1000.
The modern German alphabet's based on the Latin alphabet, consisting of 26 base letters. A little German Extrawurst, special treatment, has been added in the form of four more letters called die Umlaute ae, ä, oe ö ue ü, and the, ss ß sharp s which is, pronounced. as double, s eg, in. beissen Beißen, to. bite or der gruss gruß greeting 
(Middle English is not a dialect of German, but is still a Teutonic language.)In 1066 the Norman French invaded England from Normandy (a part of north west France that had been settled by Vikings calling themselves Normans at the end of the raiding period). However, the great majority of Latin words in German were adopted from the time of the Renaissance onwards.   English is also a Germanic language. Many similarities can be seen between German and English, espcially with cognates.
Answer   German is not a Latin based language. German is a West Germanic language   German is not a Latin based language because it is not a romance language. A Romanc … e language is a language that is derived directly from Latin. They inlude Italian, Romanian, Spanish, Portuguese, and French. However, the great majority of Latin words in German were adopted from the time of the Renaissance onwards.   English is also a Germanic language. Many similarities can be seen between German and English, espcially with cognates.
German is the most widely spoken (and official) language in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, the Italian province of South Tyrol (Alto Adige) and Liechtenstein; it is also an official (but not majority) language of Belgium and Luxembourg. At the same time, the effectiveness of the German language in forming equivalents for foreign words from its inherited Germanic stem repertory is great. Thus, Notker Labeo was able to translate Aristotelian treatises in pure (Old High) German in the decades after the year 1000.