Goats need supplemental minerals, vitamins, and other nutrients in addition to those they get in their hay, grain, and browse. Vitamins and minerals are essential to keeping goats healthy, making sure they're growing well, and assisting in reproduction and the development of skin and bone.
Grain feed or pelleted grain mix can add protein, vitamins and minerals to your goats' diet. Most farmers supplement with grain feed when necessary-such as does who are raising multiple kids or in bad weather-but foraging and browsing is the foundation to good goat nutrition.
Vitamin A: Inadequate amounts of Vitamin A in a goat's diet can lead to thick nasal discharge, difficulty in seeing or blindness, respiratory diseases, susceptibility to parasites, scruffy hair coat, and diarrhea. Kids with coccidiosis need more Vitamin A because they have reduced intestinal absorption of nutrients.
Green plants provide beta-carotene, which provides vitamin A to a goat's diet. Boer goats store vitamin A in the liver, using the reserved vitamin when lacking greens in the diet. Vitamin D is absorbed through the skin of the goat while being outdoors. Sun-cured hay is a good source of providing vitamin D in the diet. Vitamin E allows normal growth by working with the mineral selenium.
Grain or pelleted grain mixes add protein, vitamins, and minerals to a goat's diet. Some are formulated specifically for goats. Grain options include the following: Whole grain: This is the whole, unprocessed grain seed head.
You can supplement your goats' browse and feed them essential minerals and vitamins by supplying them with free-choice loose minerals or a mineral block, which you can find in most feed stores. Goats prefer minerals with salt; if you have to get a salt-free mineral, supplement it with a salt block.
DEFICIENC Y & TOXICITY. Minerals and vitamins are vital to the good health of goats. You can feed proper protein, energy, and fat, but if the mineral and vitamin mix is wrong, your goats will not do well. Most of the mineral-and vitamin-related problems in goats result from deficiencies, but toxicity can occur too.
B Vitamins: A sick goat must be supplemented with B vitamins, particularly Vitamin B 1 (thiamine). The B vitamins are water soluble, so they need to be replenished daily. One of many conditions that depletes the goat's body of B vitamins is diarrhea (which is a symptom of a problem and not an illness in itself).