―Ketu. When the first settlers of Tython observed Ashla and Bogan, they developed the notions of the light and the dark side of the Force —which they also called Ashla and Bogan, respectively—and understood the necessity for a balance between those two Force aspects. By the year 25,793 BBY, Bogan had been abandoned by the settlers and was used as a place of exile by the Je'daii Order for its members who had veered too much to the dark side of the Force.
BOGAN (pronunciation boe-gn) is a term used primarily in Australia to describe a particular section of the working class demographic. This derogatory slang word is a gender-neutral noun; this being important as many bogans tend to gravitate towards one another forming relationships and extended families. Generally the bogan fits a particular stereotypical image. The perception of what actually constitutes a bogan has been shaped over the years primarily by the media; notable especially are television programs such as Channel 7's Today Tonight and Channel 9's A Current Affair.
bogan. A fascinating beast. The majority of the species are hideously repugnant and unintelligent, and yet they manage to breed in ever-increasing numbers and populate an area known as the outer west. It is quite common to find five or six offspring in each family group, often with a different father for each new baby. A male bogan's intrests are in the Australian style 'ute' (utility vehicle), Australian rules football, and the consumption of beer. The female bogan typically wears tight pants and with attire typical of the 80's/90's. Often refered to as 'darl' and 'sheila' the female bogan often attracts the attention of fellow bogans by calling an abbreviation of their name in a high pitched shril. The male bogan holds the postion of authority in a bogan household that can often see as many as 5 or 7 children
Bogan. An Australia who usually goes by the name of Gaz, Darryn, Bazza or something similar, with a keen eye for holdens, fords and pannel vans. They are usually found sporting a fannellette shirt, tight, black ripped jeans, moccissons or ugh boots and AC/DC merchandise. A male bogan's intrests are in the Australian style 'ute' (utility vehicle), Australian rules football, and the consumption of beer. The female bogan typically wears tight pants and with attire typical of the 80's/90's. Often refered to as 'darl' and 'sheila' the female bogan often attracts the attention of fellow bogans by calling an abbreviation of their name in a high pitched shril. The male bogan holds the postion of authority in a bogan household that can often see as many as 5 or 7 children
Although the term bogan is understood across Australia and New Zealand, certain regions have their own slang terms for the same group of people. These terms include:  1 Chigger (also chigga or chig) in Tasmania. 2  This appears to be a reference to the Hobart suburb of Chigwell. Mel Campbell argued in a 2006 article in the Sydney Morning Herald that bogan (including cashed-up bogan) is a nebulous, personal concept that is frequently used in a process by which we use the idea of the bogan to quarantine ideas of Australianness that alarm or discomfort us.
Australian society has taken a downfall, and the Bogan population are the image that is often represented as Aussie Culture. Well, this misconseption can be set straight, get these beer-swiggers of our continent, they are of no value. 14. bogan. A bogan,usually lives in the western suburbs of any major Australian city.The men have mullets,gaunt,unshaven faces,checked cut off shirts and short,shorts.The females have unkept hair,usually with the remains of a bad perm,track suits or tight jeans and midriff tops and gaunt sucked in, cigarette faces.
The term bogan (/ˈboʊɡən/) is an Australian and New Zealand slang word that can be used to describe a person with a lower working-class background, or whose speech, clothing, attitude and behaviour exemplify a gratified working class mentality and depending on the context, can be pejorative or self-deprecating. Mel Campbell argued in a 2006 article in the Sydney Morning Herald that bogan (including cashed-up bogan) is a nebulous, personal concept that is frequently used in a process by which we use the idea of the bogan to quarantine ideas of Australianness that alarm or discomfort us.
Melbourne street art of a stereotypical male bogan. He is depicted as a repulsive character with a cigarette in his mouth, a tomato sauce-covered meat pie in one hand and a stubby of Melbourne Bitter in the other. On his arm is a tattoo of Ned Kelly. Mel Campbell argued in a 2006 article in the Sydney Morning Herald that bogan (including cashed-up bogan) is a nebulous, personal concept that is frequently used in a process by which we use the idea of the bogan to quarantine ideas of Australianness that alarm or discomfort us.