Albert Einstein was born in Ulm, Germany on March 14, 1879. He spent most of his childhood in Munich, Germany. His father had an electronics company and Albert learned a lot about science and electronics from his dad. He really liked math and wanted to pursue math and science in school. Albert Einstein did not work directly on inventing the Atomic bomb, but his name is closely associated with the bomb. This is because his scientific work and discoveries were key in the bomb's development, specifically his work on energy and mass and his famous equation: E=mc2. Fun Facts about Albert Einstein.
Albert Einstein was a theoretical physicist, not an inventor (although he did once work in a patent office). While he did not invent things himself, his theoretical work was e … ssential for a number of inventions that other people invented, including the atomic bomb and the laser. 3 people found this useful. Answered. 
1 Formula for Brownian Motion This was one of Albert Einstein's first inventions, based on experiments he did while he was in college. 2  If you're like most of us and don't know what the Brownian Motion is, it's the movement of particles in liquids. 3  No one had documented this effectively until Einstein came along. 1 This was the basis for quantum physics, which Einstein also invented through his experimentation. 2  Formula for Brownian Motion This was one of Albert Einstein's first inventions, based on experiments he did while he was in college.
German. Albert Einstein, German-born American physicist and Nobel laureate, best known as the creator of the special and general theories of relativity and for his bold hypothesis concerning the particle nature of light. He is perhaps the most well-known scientist of the 20th century. 
A theoretical physicist and philosopher, Albert Einstein was the most influential scientist of the 20th century. He was born in Ulm, Germany on 14th March, 1879. Known as the father of modern physics, Einstein received the Nobel Prize for his contribution to 'Theoretical Physics' in 1921. 
What did Albert Einstein Invent. The Einstein refrigerator is an Albert Einstein invention that uses green technology. It was co-invented with Leo Szilard who was one of his physics students at Zurich University. The invention was patented in 1930 and licensed to various companies including Electrolux. During that time they were collecting royalties on the Einstein refrigerator. This Albert Einstein invention was the only invention patented by Einstein who became more famous for his theories on physics rather than for his work in refrigeration, although scientists are now investigating this technology. Oxford Builds Einstein Refrigerator
Albert Einstein was a theoretical physicist, not an inventor (although he did once work in a patent office). While he did not invent things himself, his theoretical work was e … ssential for a number of inventions that other people invented, including the atomic bomb and the laser. 3 people found this useful. 
As a physicist and mathematician, Einstein wasn't an inventor in the vein of Thomas Edison or Alexander Graham Bell, but his theories of relativity led to new ways of looking at time, space, matter, energy and gravity. 