HOW IS CINNAMON MADE The two varieties of Cinnamon are made a bit differently. The cassia Cinnamon is made by cutting the Cinnamon tree trunk and rolling the inner bark into sticks. Because the Cassia Bark is very hard and thick only one piece of bark is used for rolling into a stick. The most common way cinnamon is used as Cinnamon powder for baking pastries, sprinkled on coffee or tea and just mixed with honey and eaten direct. However because Cinnamon powder goes stake very quickly many people buy the cinnamon stick and use it whole in cooking, especially Asian curries.
The English word cinnamon and cassia, attested in English since the 15th century, derives from the Greek κιννάμωμον kinnamōmon (kinnámōmon later), kinnamon Kínnamon via latin And medieval french. Intermediate Forms the greek in turn was borrowed From a, phoenician word which would have been akin to The related. hebrew qinnamon Cassia is the strong spicy flavour associated with cinnamon rolls and other such baked goods, as it handles baking conditions well. Chinese cinnamon is generally a medium to light reddish brown, hard and woody in texture, and thicker (2–3 mm (0.079–0.118 in) thick), as all of the layers of bark are used.
Cinnamon comes from a tree. People use the bark to make medicine. Cinnamon bark is used for gastrointestinal (GI) upset, diarrhea, and gas. It is also used for stimulating appetite; for infections caused by bacteria and parasitic worms; and for menstrual cramps, the common cold, and the flu (influenza). In foods, cinnamon is used as a spice and as a flavoring agent in beverages. In manufacturing, cinnamon oil is used in small amounts in toothpaste, mouthwashes, gargles, lotions, liniments, soaps, detergents, and other pharmaceutical products and cosmetics.
Cinnamon bark is used to make powders, capsules, teas, and liquid extracts. Although there are many kinds of cinnamon, Ceylon cinnamon (sometimes referred to as “true” cinnamon) and cassia cinnamon (also known as Chinese cinnamon) are the most familiar. Top. 
Knowledge center. Cinnamon is a spice that comes from the branches of wild trees that belong to the genus Cinnamomum - native to the Caribbean, South America, and Southeast Asia. There are two main types of cinnamon: 1  Cinnamomum verum (Ceylon cinnamon), most commonly used in the Western world. 2  Cinnamomum aromaticum (Cassia cinnamon or Chinese cinnamon), which originates from southern China, is typically less expensive than Ceylon cinnamon. 
Cinnamon (/ˈsɪnəmən/ SIN-ə-mən) is a spice obtained from the inner bark of several trees from the genus Cinnamomum that is used in both sweet and savoury foods. Cassia is the strong spicy flavour associated with cinnamon rolls and other such baked goods, as it handles baking conditions well. Chinese cinnamon is generally a medium to light reddish brown, hard and woody in texture, and thicker (2–3 mm (0.079–0.118 in) thick), as all of the layers of bark are used.
Cinnamon is the name for perhaps a dozen species of trees and the commercial spice products that some of them produce. All are members of the genus Cinnamomum in the family Lauraceae. Only a few of them are grown commercially for spice. Cassia is the strong spicy flavour associated with cinnamon rolls and other such baked goods, as it handles baking conditions well. Chinese cinnamon is generally a medium to light reddish brown, hard and woody in texture, and thicker (2–3 mm (0.079–0.118 in) thick), as all of the layers of bark are used.
Cinnamon is a tropical evergreen tree whose parts, either the bark or the leaf is used for a variety of purposes. The parts of the tree is broken down into many parts as follows. 1  Cinnamon chips (like wood chips) made from the bark. 2  Bark rolled into sticks that are between 2-6 inches long. The most common way cinnamon is used as Cinnamon powder for baking pastries, sprinkled on coffee or tea and just mixed with honey and eaten direct. However because Cinnamon powder goes stake very quickly many people buy the cinnamon stick and use it whole in cooking, especially Asian curries.
The Cinnamon oil which is made by steam distilling the leaves of the Cinnamon Tree or Cinnamon Bark is heavily used in food processing, fine perfumes, aroma therapy, medication (especially Asian medication), disinfectants. TYPES OF CINNAMON. There are hundreds of types of Cinnamon. The most common way cinnamon is used as Cinnamon powder for baking pastries, sprinkled on coffee or tea and just mixed with honey and eaten direct. However because Cinnamon powder goes stake very quickly many people buy the cinnamon stick and use it whole in cooking, especially Asian curries.
Cinnamon in its various forms has two chemical constituents called Cinnamaldehyde and Eugenol (From Cinnamon Oil). These have been used to develop nutraceuticals in this study that have proven fairly effective in fighting Human Colon Cancer Cells (Eugenol) and Human hepatoma cells (Cinnamaldehyde). Another reason to have our Cinnamon tea which is infused with Cinnamon Bark Oil that has high levels of Cinnamaldehyde (between 40-50%). Read our Blog post on how to take Cinnamon for stomach bugs and flu.