Having nuts during pregnancy is important. Nuts contain essential healthy fat, nutrients, vitamin and calories that pregnant women necessarily require to cope with growing needs each trimester. There have been speculations about eating almonds during pregnancy because of the possible food allergy. There is no reason why you should not include almonds in your everyday diet if you are healthy and your body responds normal to nuts in food. 4. Calcium: High levels of calcium in almonds reduce the risk of hypertension and pre-eclampsia during pregnancy. Calcium is essential for building strong teeth and bone in your baby.
1. Protein: The high protein content in almonds helps in the healthy development of muscle mass in your growing baby. Protein intake is also important for you as a mother to gain enough strength and stamina for the oncoming delivery and motherhood. It also helps in healthy birth weight of your baby. 4. Calcium: High levels of calcium in almonds reduce the risk of hypertension and pre-eclampsia during pregnancy. Calcium is essential for building strong teeth and bone in your baby.
Almonds are a valuable source of nutrients, and they provide healthy fats. Pregnant women have increased vitamin, nutrient and calorie requirements, so almonds could be a useful addition to a pregnancy diet. However, the safety of eating nuts like almonds during pregnancy is a concern because of the increasing rates of food allergies in young children. Nuts, like meats and beans, are members of the protein food group that is vital for a healthy diet. Approximately 25 almonds represents a 1-oz. equivalent to contribute to the daily recommended adult protein intake of 5 to 6 ounce equivalents, according to the United States Department of Agriculture.
Read this in Marathi. We all have probably heard the advice that eating almonds after soaking them in water overnight is good for health. Commonly associated with increasing memory power, this saying has never really been explained. Well here’s why eating soaked almonds is actually great for your entire body. Packed with essential vitamins and minerals like vitamin E, zinc, calcium, magnesium and omega-3 fatty acids, almonds can do a world of good when it comes to your health. But in order to absorb all those nutrients, the almonds you eat, should be soaked in water overnight.
They are high in fibre, especially nuts with brown coats, which can ease constipation, a common complaint in pregnancy. Nuts are also a good source of iron and protein which can be particularly beneficial if you are vegetarian. Getting enough iron is important to prevent anaemia. Vitamin C aids your body in absorbing iron efficiently, so have nuts and dried fruit with a glass of orange juice or nimbu pani to increase your iron intake. 
Soaked almond is a very good source of energy for a pregnant woman. It provides proper nourishment for both mom and baby. Almond is a well balanced food with a lot of nutrients in it. It is a good source for protein, fats, folate, calcium and magnesium. All of which are required during pregnancy. 
Almonds are a healthy source of iron. Almonds are a nutritious source of protein, iron, vitamin E and heart-healthy unsaturated fats. These nutrients help support a healthy pregnancy and are a nutritious addition to your diet. If you're concerned about the risk of nut allergies, research doesn't indicate a danger if you eat almonds while pregnant. Nutrients. Raw almonds contain several of the nutrients you need to support a healthy pregnancy. One ounce of almonds supplies about 1 milligram of iron toward the 27 milligrams you need each day. Increased iron intake is necessary to support your growing volume of blood and to help prevent anemia and fatigue
Eating nuts as part of a healthy diet can be good for your heart. Nuts, which contain unsaturated fatty acids and other nutrients, are a great snack food, too. They're inexpensive, easy to store and easy to pack when you're on the go. 