Share to: Answer   Human eye is sensitive to an approximate range of wave length of EM radiation from 380nm to 760nm. This portion of electromagnetic spectrum is identified as vis … ible light These wavelengths roughly correspond to the colors violet, indigo, blue, green, yellow, orange, and red. 22 people found this useful. 
Infrared radiation has a longer wavelength than visible red light. The white light is a mixture of the colors of the visible spectrum. Black is a total absence of light. Earth's most important energy source is the Sun. Sunlight consists of the entire electromagnetic spectrum. Learn more: 1  Violet light. 2  Indigo light. The visible blue light has a wavelength of about 475 nm. Because the blue wavelengths are shorter in the visible spectrum, they are scattered more efficiently by the molecules in the atmosphere. This causes the sky to appear blue.
White light is dispersed by a prism into the colors of the visible spectrum. The visible spectrum is the portion of the electromagnetic spectrum that is visible to the human eye. Electromagnetic radiation in this range of wavelengths is called visible light or simply light. A typical human eye will respond to wavelengths from about 390 to 700 nm. In terms of frequency, this corresponds to a band in the vicinity of 430–770 THz
Best Answer: Energy = hc/lambda, where h = Planck's constant = 6.626 x 10^-34 Js, c = the speed of light = 3.00 x 10^8 m/s, and lambda = wavelength in m. 164 kJ/mole means that we are dealing with 6.022 x 10^23 molecules of 11-cis-retinal, not just one molecule. So, let's just deal with one molecule. The human eye contains a molecule called 11-cis-retinal that changes conformation when struck with light of sufficient energy. The change in conformation triggers a series of events that results in an electrical signal being sent to the brain. The minimum energy required to change the conformation of 11-cis-retinal...
RE: Calculate the longest wavelength, in meters, visible to the human eye.? The human eye contains a molecule called 11-cis-retinal that changes conformation when struck with light of sufficient energy. The change in conformation triggers a series of events that results in an electrical signal being sent to the brain. The minimum energy required to change the conformation of 11-cis-rentinal within the eye is about 175.0 kJ/mol. Calculate the longest wavelength, in meters, visible to the human eye. please use sig figs.
Our eyes are sensitive to light which lies in a very small region of the electromagnetic spectrum labeled visible light. This visible light corresponds to a wavelength range of 400 - 700 nanometers (nm) and a color range of violet through red. The human eye is not capable of seeing radiation with wavelengths outside the visible spectrum. The visible colors from shortest to longest wavelength are: violet, blue, green, yellow, orange, and red. Ultraviolet radiation has a shorter wavelength than the visible violet light. The visible blue light has a wavelength of about 475 nm. Because the blue wavelengths are shorter in the visible spectrum, they are scattered more efficiently by the molecules in the atmosphere. This causes the sky to appear blue.
The human eye is not capable of seeing radiation with wavelengths outside the visible spectrum. The visible colors from shortest to longest wavelength are: violet, blue, green, yellow, orange, and red. Ultraviolet radiation has a shorter wavelength than the visible violet light. Infrared radiation has a longer wavelength than visible red light. The white light is a mixture of the colors of
Best Answer: See if this helps you any.......... Our eyes are sensitive to light which lies in a very small region of the electromagnetic spectrum labeled visible light. This visible light corresponds to a wavelength range of 400 - 700 nanometers (nm) and a color range of violet through red. The visible colors from shortest to longest wavelength are: violet, blue, green, yellow, orange, and red. Ultraviolet radiation has a shorter wavelength than the visible violet light. Infrared radiation has a longer wavelength than visible red light.