Broadcast and telephone transmission have conventionally used analog technology. An analog signal can be represented as a series of sine wave s. The term originated because the modulation of the carrier wave is analogous to the fluctuations of the human voice or other sound that is being transmitted. Part of the Electronics glossary: 1) In telecommunications, an analog signal is one in which a base carrier's alternating current frequency is modified in some way, such as by amplifying the strength of the signal or varying the frequency, in order to add information to the signal.
Analog is also rather limited in terms of mobile phone technology. With a cordless device (such as a mobile or home phone), analog is limited in the range that it is able to pick up (of course, that more or less depends on the environment in which one uses the phone). Digital phones allow more users to use their mobile phones within a single area of coverage. Analog phones use technology that translates audio or video signals into electronic pulses; digital phones use technology that translates audio or video signals into binary code. 2. Analog phones have a substantially higher sound quality; digital phones have a slightly clearer sound.
An analog telephone adapter (ATA) is a device for connecting traditional analog telephones, fax machines, and similar customer-premises devices to a digital telephone system or a voice over IP telephony network. 
How do you tell if the phone line is analog or digital? Look at the back of the telephone connected to it. If you see complies with part 68, FCC Rules and a Ringer Equivalence Number (REN), then the phone and the line are analog. Also, look at the phone's dialpad. Let's say you connect your home analog phone to your office's digital line. When you lift the receiver, the phone tries to draw an electrical current to operate. Typically this is regulated by the phone company's central office.
Analog vs. Digital Phones. An analog phone is one which makes use of analog technology. Analog technology is simply the process by which the technology takes an audio or video signal and translates it into electronic pulses (the human voice being transmitted over the phone, for instance). Analog phones use technology that translates audio or video signals into electronic pulses; digital phones use technology that translates audio or video signals into binary code. 2. Analog phones have a substantially higher sound quality; digital phones have a slightly clearer sound.
Analog at a glance. As a technology, analog is the process of taking an audio or video signal (in most cases, the human voice) and translating it into electronic pulses. Digital on the other hand is breaking the signal into a binary format where the audio or video data is represented by a series of 1s and 0s. Let's say you connect your home analog phone to your office's digital line. When you lift the receiver, the phone tries to draw an electrical current to operate. Typically this is regulated by the phone company's central office.
In 1983, the analog cell phone standard called AMPS (Advanced Mobile Phone System) was approved by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and first used in Chicago. AMPS uses a range of frequencies between 824 megahertz (MHz) and 894 MHz for analog cell phones. 
Motorola DynaTAC 8000X TACS mobile phone. Advanced Mobile Phone System (AMPS) is an analog mobile cell phone system standard developed by Bell Labs, and officially introduced in the Americas on October 13, 1983, Israel in 1986, Australia in 1987, and Pakistan in 1990. It was the primary analog mobile phone system in North America (and other locales) through the 1980s and into the 2000s. As of February 18, 2008, carriers in the United States were no longer required to support AMPS and companies such as AT&T and Verizon have discontinued this service permanently.
Analog Phone System vs. Digital Phone System. This is a great time to purchase a new business telephone system, with more options and available features than ever before. Many buyers start by choosing between an analog and digital phone system. Finding the right combination of features and capabilities to meet your business needs requires a basic understanding of the technical and functional differences between both types of systems
What is an analog telephone line? A simple analog telephone line is a voice circuit historically made from copper wire that runs from your local phone company's Central Office (C.O.) building to your business location. The central office houses telephone switching equipment that connects you to the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN). Analog telephone lines transmit voice as electrical signals. When you speak into the handset of your phone, the microphone converts the sound waves into analog electrical waves. These waves propagate over the telephone line to their destination.