ragstone. n. 1. (Geological Science) a hard sandstone or limestone, esp when used for building. Also called: rag or ragg. [C14: from rag 4 + stone]. 
Gallagher is the last remaining company still actively quarrying Kentish Ragstone. Kentish Ragstone is the only hard rock available in the South East of England. The strength and durability of Kentish Ragstone make it particularly suitable within our built environment. Moreover, to maintain the local character of Kent's architecture, Gallagher's Hermitage Quarry supplies building stone both for restoration and for new construction. Kentish Ragstone is an important natural resource and is the most widespread building stone used throughout the South East of England.
Ragstone Edit. A bizarre rock-like alien from space, Ragstone came to Earth for the life force of others. Over time Ragstone started to make a cult of sorts dedicated to bringing him food and even had a building made in his image. 1 Suit actor: Hiroshi Nagata Tomo. 2  Ragstone roar is reused from the Ultraman Tiga monster, Golza. 3  In episode 43 of Ultraman Cosmos, the Alien Nowar mentioned that all monsters from their planet died due to the failure of their monster remodelling.
ragstone. n. 1. (Geological Science) a hard sandstone or limestone, esp when used for building. Also called: rag or ragg. [C14: from rag 4 + stone]. 
1 : Ragstone can absorb the life force of other beings. 2  When doing this to humans he can use mind control on them to bring him more beings. 3  He has a chance of killing while a being has eye protection such as sunglasses. 1 Suit actor: Hiroshi Nagata Tomo. 2  Ragstone roar is reused from the Ultraman Tiga monster, Golza. 3  In episode 43 of Ultraman Cosmos, the Alien Nowar mentioned that all monsters from their planet died due to the failure of their monster remodelling.
1 As well as the soapstone mentioned above, Kentish ragstone was exported to Europe for building. 2  It was worked for Kentish ragstone until the 1940s and provided the ragstone to build Loose church and to face the Loose viaduct, designed by Thomas Telford in 1830. Example sentences. 1  As well as the soapstone mentioned above, Kentish ragstone was exported to Europe for building. 2  It was worked for Kentish ragstone until the 1940s and provided the ragstone to build Loose church and to face the Loose viaduct, designed by Thomas Telford in 1830.
1 : Ragstone can turn himself into a three foot tall stone. : 2  Ragstone can absorb the life force of other beings. 3  When doing this to humans he can use mind control on them to bring him more beings. 4  He has a chance of killing while a being has eye protection such as sunglasses. 1 Suit actor: Hiroshi Nagata Tomo. 2  Ragstone roar is reused from the Ultraman Tiga monster, Golza. 3  In episode 43 of Ultraman Cosmos, the Alien Nowar mentioned that all monsters from their planet died due to the failure of their monster remodelling.
Kentish Ragstone was difficult to carve with early tools because of its inherent hardness, giving it a 'raggy' surface, so it was generally used for rough walling. However, modern stone-working techniques enable the stone to be used in a variety of usages including carving, moulding, honing and polishing. Moreover, to maintain the local character of Kent's architecture, Gallagher's Hermitage Quarry supplies building stone both for restoration and for new construction. Kentish Ragstone is an important natural resource and is the most widespread building stone used throughout the South East of England.