Heart rate, also known as pulse, is the number of times a person's heart beats per minute. A normal heart rate depends on the individual, age, body size, heart conditions, whether the person is sitting or moving, medication use and even air temperature. Even emotions can have an impact on heart rate. For adults 18 and older, a normal resting heart rate is between 60 and 100 beats per minute (bpm), depending on the person’s physical condition and age. For children ages 6 to 15, the normal resting heart rate is between 70 and 100 bpm, according to the AHA.
Your heart rate, or pulse, is the number of times your heart beats per minute. Normal heart rate varies from person to person. Knowing yours can be an important heart-health gauge. 
In general, a resting heart rate over 100 beats per minute is accepted as tachycardia in adults. Heart rates above the resting rate may be normal (such as with exercise) or abnormal (such as with electrical problems within the heart). Tachycardia, also called tachyarrhythmia, is a heart rate that exceeds the normal resting rate.
A rapid heartbeat, also called tachycardia, is a condition in which the heart is beating fast, generally more than 100 beats per minute for an adult. The average adult resting heart rate falls within the range of 60 to 80 beats per minute. Your heart rate is affected by many factors, including age, general physical condition, aerobic conditioning, and altitude. Infants and children normally have a more rapid heartbeat than adults.
Tachycardia is a faster than normal heart rate at rest. A healthy adult heart normally beats 60 to 100 times a minute when a person is at rest. If you have tachycardia (tak-ih-KAHR-dee-uh), the heart rate in the upper chambers or lower chambers of the heart, or both, is increased. 
The normal resting adult human heart rate ranges from 60–100 bpm. Tachycardia is a fast heart rate, defined as above 100 bpm at rest. Bradycardia is a slow heart rate, defined as below 60 bpm at rest. During sleep a slow heartbeat with rates around 40–50 BPM is common and is considered normal. Heart rate, or heart pulse, is the speed of the heartbeat measured by the number of contractions of the heart per unit of time — typically beats per minute (bpm). The heart rate can vary according to the body's physical needs, including the need to absorb oxygen and excrete carbon dioxide.
Atrial or Supraventricular Tachycardia (SVT). Atrial or Supraventricular tachycardia (SVT) is a fast heart rate that starts in the upper chambers of the heart. Some forms are called paroxysmal atrial tachycardia (PAT) or paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT). Ventricular tachycardia is a fast heart rate that starts in the heart's lower chambers (ventricles). It can be a life-threatening heart rhythm and requires rapid diagnosis and treatment.
A rapid or fast heartbeat is when your heart is beating faster than normal. A normal heart rate is 60 to 100 beats per minute. Tachycardia is considered a heart rate of greater than 100 beats per minute. If you are exercising, or performing any kind of activity, your heart will normally beat faster. This allows your heart to pump blood through out your body, to provide oxygen to the tissues.
Tachycardia = Too fast. A heart rate of more than 100 beats per minute (BPM) in adults is called tachycardia. What's too fast for you may depend on your age and physical condition. Ventricular tachycardia is a fast heart rate that starts in the heart's lower chambers (ventricles). It can be a life-threatening heart rhythm and requires rapid diagnosis and treatment.