Noun. 1. ocean current-the steady flow of surface ocean water in a prevailing direction. current, stream-a steady flow of a fluid (usually from natural causes); the raft floated downstream on the current; he felt a stream of air; the hose ejected a stream of water.
(June 2008). Highly idealised depiction of the global circulation on Earth. Atmospheric circulation is the large-scale movement of air, and the means (together with the smaller ocean circulation) by which thermal energy is distributed on the surface of the Earth.
Definition of HADLEY CELL. : a pattern of atmospheric circulation in which warm air rises near the equator, cools as it travels poleward at high altitude, sinks as cold air, and warms as it travels equatorward; also: a similar atmospheric circulation pattern on another planet (as Mars). ADVERTISEMENT. 
General Circulation of the Atmosphere body. The circulation of wind in the atmosphere is driven by the rotation of the earth and the incoming energy from the sun. Wind circulates in each hemisphere in three distinct cells which help transport energy and heat from the equator to the poles. 
Assume that the sun heats the equatorial regions much more than the polar regions. In response to this, two huge convection cells develop. Simple, single cell atmospheric convection in a non-rotating Earth. Single cell being either a single cell north or south of the equator. Figure 7.5 in The Atmosphere, 8th edition, Lutgens and Tarbuck, 8th edition, 2001. An intermediate model: We now allow the earth to rotate.
Atmospheric circulation. Atmospheric circulation is the movement of air at all levels of the atmosphere over all parts of the planet. The driving force behind atmospheric circulation is solar energy, which heats the atmosphere with different intensities at the equator, the middle latitudes, and the poles. Atmospheric circulation is a simple process with complex results. It is a system of cells within cells. When we observe leaves swirling in the shadow of a building or a bird soaring on an updraft of warm air, the same principles are at work as with larger global units of the same circulation system.
Alternative searches for Atmospheric circulation 1  : Search for Definitions for Atmospheric circulation. 2  Search for Synonyms for Atmospheric circulation. 3  Quotes containing the term Atmospheric circulation. 4  Search for Phrases containing the term Atmospheric circulation. Nearby & related entries: 1  atmosfera. 2  atmospheir. 3  atmosphere. 4  atmosphere residual. 5  atmospheric. 6  atmospheric condition. 7  atmospheric electricity. 8  atmospheric environment. 9  atmospheric perspective. 10  atmospheric phenomenon.
primary circulation. The prevailing fundamental atmospheric circulation on a planetary scale that must exist in response to 1) radiation differences with latitude, 2) the rotation of the earth, and 3) the particular distribution of land and oceans; and that is required from the viewpoint of conservation of energy. They may be distinguished, however, on the basis of approach; that is, primary circulation is the basic system of winds, of which the secondary and tertiary circulation are perturbations, while general circulation encompasses at least the secondary circulations. See macrometeorology. Categories :
Atmospheric circulation is a large-scale movement of masses of air. The origin of these processes is the sun's radiation. The sun waves radiate the short-wave radiation. The earth absorbs only a part of this energy. The other part is radiated back to the atmosphere and to the universe. The back radiation is long-waved. 
Photo by: Hynek Kalista. Atmospheric circulation is the movement of air at all levels of the atmosphere over all parts of the planet. The driving force behind atmospheric circulation is solar energy, which heats the atmosphere with different intensities at the equator, the middle latitudes, and the poles.