1 Accounting (Must major in Accounting and be able to pass the CPA exam or FBI equivalent). 2  Diversified duties (require an advanced degree with work experience or a minimum of 3 years of work experience). 3  A three year commitment is required when you accept employment. 1 Try to get an internship with the FBI-it's a great way to get your foot in the door. 2  Once out of college, apply to positions in law enforcement. 3  Work to get in departments working against drug use, white collar crime, etc.
A: If you wish to be an FBI agent, you will need to fulfill certain requirements. You can only be an FBI agent if you are a US citizen and fall in the age bracket of 23-37 years. It is also important that you earn a bachelor's degree in a relevant field such as criminal justice, cyber crime, forensics, or biology. Q: I want to become an FBI agent but I don't know how to be a fbi agent. A: To become an FBI agent, you will be required to earn a formal degree in the field of criminal justice. Moreover, you will need to complete the Bachelors in Criminal Justice with an area of specialization of your choice, followed by the Masters in Criminology or Criminal Justice degree.
1 You must be under 37 years of age when you're hired but at least 23 years of age. 2  Have a driver's license in a US state. 3  Have a minimum of a Bachelors degree from an accredited four year university. 4  Be physically able to complete the training and execute the duties. 1 Try to get an internship with the FBI-it's a great way to get your foot in the door. 2  Once out of college, apply to positions in law enforcement. 3  Work to get in departments working against drug use, white collar crime, etc.
A: To become a FBI agent, you need to be between the age of 23 and 37. These requirements are set by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. You need to have at least a bachelor level degree in a relevant field. The next step is completing an FBI training program. A: It will take you 4-5 years to become an FBI special agent. After completing a four year undergraduate degree, preferably in a relevant subject such as criminal justice, you may apply to the agency.
A: If you want to become an FBI agent you should be a U.S citizen and at least 23 years of age. Educational requirements include having a four year bachelor degree from an accredited university or college. A: It will take you 4-5 years to become an FBI special agent. After completing a four year undergraduate degree, preferably in a relevant subject such as criminal justice, you may apply to the agency.
Because of the specialized nature of FBI Special Agent jobs, the FBI has very strict entry requirements in place. To qualify for a position as an FBI Special Agent: 1  Candidates must be at least 23 years old, but younger than 37 at the time of appointment. 2  Veterans, however, may be granted an age waiver if they are older than 37. 3  Candidates must be a United States citizen or a citizen of the Northern Mariana Islands. All FBI Special Agent applicants must complete an online application. Based on the application, only a select few will be contacted to begin testing. 1  Phase 1 Testing – Phase 1 testing, which takes place at an FBI facility, consists of a number of written tests.
As government employees, FBI agents are paid according to the General Schedule, or GS, scale. The scale is a matrix that includes 15 grades and 10 steps, which allows for 150 different pay rates. An FBI agent at GS-12 step 5 would earn an annual salary of $68,993. 
A: Some the basic selection criteria for the FBI calls for the applicants to be United States citizen or a citizen of the Northern Mariana Islands. You must be over the age of 23 years and younger than 37. You must also have a four year college degree and hold a valid drivers license. A: It will take you 4-5 years to become an FBI special agent. After completing a four year undergraduate degree, preferably in a relevant subject such as criminal justice, you may apply to the agency.
A: To become an FBI agent, you must have at least a bachelor degree. You will also have to complete the training requirements, complete a background check, and must hold a US citizenship. It is recommended that you visit the official web page of the FBI to find out how to apply for a job as a FBI agent. A: To become an FBI agent, you will be required to earn a formal degree in the field of criminal justice. Moreover, you will need to complete the Bachelors in Criminal Justice with an area of specialization of your choice, followed by the Masters in Criminology or Criminal Justice degree.
How to Become an FBI Agent. Working for the Federal Bureau of Investigation is not only a prestigious position but noble. The FBI is one of the six agencies represented by the Justice Department and enforces federal laws. Keep reading for steps to apply and be a federal agent. 1 Try to get an internship with the FBI-it's a great way to get your foot in the door. 2  Once out of college, apply to positions in law enforcement. 3  Work to get in departments working against drug use, white collar crime, etc.