A study found that two aromatase inhibitors -- Arimidex (chemical name: anastrozole) and Aromasin (chemical name: exemestane) -- were equally good at reducing the risk of recurrence (the cancer coming back) in postmenopausal women diagnosed with early-stage, hormone-receptor-positive breast cancer. 
Aromasin is an aromatase inhibitor that has been approved by the U.S. FDA (Food and Drug Administration) to treat postmenopausal women who have been diagnosed with hormone receptor-positive, early stage breast cancer after they have taken tamoxifen for two to three years to lower the risk of the cancer coming back. 1 According to some members on BreastCancer.org, one user received the following quote from Costco: $465 for 30 days and $1,368 for 90 days. 2  Aromasin is a type of hormone therapy medication classified as an aromatase inhibitor and used to treat breast cancer.
EXEMESTANE blocks the production of the hormone estrogen. Some types of breast cancer depend on estrogen to grow, and this medicine can stop tumor growth by blocking estrogen production. This medicine is for the treatment of breast cancer in postmenopausal women only. GoodRx's cash prices are based on multiple sources, including published price lists, purchases, claims records, and data provided by pharmacies. Our discount and coupon prices are based on contracts between a pharmacy (or pharmacy purchasing group) and a Pharmacy Benefit Manager (PBM), who provides prices to us.
1 The average cost of Aromasin tablets (25 mg) is about $18 to $22 per tab or around $1,700 to $2,000 per pack containing 90 tabs. 1 According to some members on BreastCancer.org, one user received the following quote from Costco: $465 for 30 days and $1,368 for 90 days. 2  Aromasin is a type of hormone therapy medication classified as an aromatase inhibitor and used to treat breast cancer.
While costs vary, Aromasin can cost several hundred dollars per month. Aromasin also is available as a generic medicine, which is usually less expensive. If you have health insurance, check with your insurance company to see if and how much of the cost of Aromasin is covered. If you don't have health insurance or your insurance doesn't cover the cost of Aromasin, ask your doctor or nurse about programs in your area that may be able to help.
The results have shown that switching to Aromasin for 2 to 3 years AFTER taking tamoxifen 2 to 3 years (for a total of 5 years of hormonal therapy medicine) was better than staying on tamoxifen for 5 years for: 1  increasing the time before the cancer comes back in those who experience a recurrence. If you have health insurance, check with your insurance company to see if and how much of the cost of Aromasin is covered. If you don't have health insurance or your insurance doesn't cover the cost of Aromasin, ask your doctor or nurse about programs in your area that may be able to help.
Benefits of Aromasin. The large IES (Intergroup Exemestane Study) trial was started in 1998 and compared switching to Aromasin after taking tamoxifen for 2 to 3 years to staying on tamoxifen for 5 years. If you have health insurance, check with your insurance company to see if and how much of the cost of Aromasin is covered. If you don't have health insurance or your insurance doesn't cover the cost of Aromasin, ask your doctor or nurse about programs in your area that may be able to help.
Drug Exemestane. The generic Exemestane is manufactured by 4 companies. The information provided includes the cost of the drug and the type of drug-tablet, capsule, syrup, cream, gel, ointment, liquid or injection. To view the price of the drug click on the brand name.
EXEMESTANE blocks the production of the hormone estrogen. Some types of breast cancer depend on estrogen to grow, and this medicine can stop tumor growth by blocking estrogen production. This medicine is for the treatment of breast cancer in postmenopausal women only.
1 Treatment with AROMASIN should continue for 2 to 3 years until a total of 5 years of adjuvant treatment of tamoxifen and AROMASIN have been completed. 2  Advanced breast cancer: AROMASIN is indicated for the treatment of advanced breast cancer in postmenopausal women whose disease has progressed after tamoxifen therapy. 1 Early breast cancer: AROMASIN is indicated for the adjuvant treatment (additional treatment given after the primary or main treatment) of postmenopausal women with estrogen-receptor positive (ER positive) early breast cancer.