Pearson Syndrome is classified as a mitochondrial disease because it consists of several overlapping syndromes that are caused by mutations of mitochondrial DNA. Specifically, Pearson Syndrome is a combination of syndromes that involves the bone marrow and the exocrine pancreas. It is usually fatal in infancy. The few patients who survive into adulthood often develop symptoms of Kearns-Sayre syndrome. It is caused by a deletion in mitochondrial DNA. Pearson syndrome is very rare, less than hundred cases have been reported in medical literature worldwide.
Pearson syndrome is a progressive disease, and its features change with age. Neonates may be well at birth, but some 40% of patients present in the first year with persistent hypoplastic anemia, other cytopenias, low birth weight, microcephaly, and multiple organ system involvement (GI, neuromuscular, and metabolic). Other mitochondropathies, such as KSS and the mitochondrial myopathies, have deletions of mitochondrial DNA that may be similar or identical to those detected in Pearson syndrome. How similar abnormalities of mitochondrial DNA cause such diverse disorders is not well understood.
Pearson syndrome is a mitochondrial disorder which affects multiple organ systems (liver, pancreas, kidney). Some characteristics include anemia, pancreatic dysfunction with malabsorption issues and chronic diarrhea. 1 1 Pearson's Syndrome patients report severe anxious mood (100%). 2  0 Pearson's Syndrome patients report moderate anxious mood (0%). 3  0 Pearson's Syndrome patients report mild
Pearson's syndrome is listed as a  rare disease  by the Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). This means that Pearson's syndrome, or a subtype of Pearson's syndrome, affects less than 200,000 people in the US population. Pearson's syndrome: Pearson's syndrome is listed as a type of (or associated with) the following medical conditions in our database: 1  Blood conditions. 2  Bone marrow conditions. 3  Endocrine system conditions. 4  Pancreas conditions. 5  Abdominal conditions. 6  Mitochondrial conditions. 7  Metabolic conditions
Pearson marrow-pancreas syndrome is a severe disorder that usually begins in infancy. It causes problems with the development of blood-forming (hematopoietic) cells in the bone marrow that have the potential to develop into different types of blood cells. For this reason, Pearson marrow-pancreas syndrome is considered a bone marrow failure disorder. Function of the pancreas and other organs can also be affected. Most affected individuals have a shortage of red blood cells (anemia), which can cause pale skin (pallor), weakness, and fatigue. In people with Pearson marrow-pancreas syndrome, the pancreas does not work as well as usual. The pancreas produces and releases enzymes that aid in the digestion of fats and proteins.
Pearson Syndrome is a very rare mitochondrial disorder that is characterized by health conditions such as sideroblastic anemia, liver disease, and exocrine pancreas deficiency. It is usually fatal in infancy. The few patients who survive into adulthood often develop symptoms of Kearns-Sayre syndrome. It is caused by a deletion in mitochondrial DNA. Pearson syndrome is very rare, less than hundred cases have been reported in medical literature worldwide.
Pearson's marrow-pancreas syndrome: Introduction. Pearson's marrow-pancreas syndrome: A rare condition characterized by abnormal functioning of the bone marrow, liver, kidneys and pancreas. Infant death is common. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Pearson's marrow-pancreas syndrome is available below. 
Defining features of Pearson syndrome. The first defining feature of Pearson syndrome is marrow failure. Sideroblastic anemia, usually macrocytic and frequently transfusion dependent, is observed in isolation or associated with neutropenia and thrombocytopenia. Other mitochondropathies, such as KSS and the mitochondrial myopathies, have deletions of mitochondrial DNA that may be similar or identical to those detected in Pearson syndrome. How similar abnormalities of mitochondrial DNA cause such diverse disorders is not well understood.
Pearson syndrome is a mitochondrial disease characterized by sideroblastic anemia and exocrine pancreas dysfunction. Other clinical features are failure to thrive, pancreatic fibrosis with insulin-dependent diabetes and exocrine pancreatic deficiency, muscle and neurologic impairment, and, frequently, early death. It is usually fatal in infancy. The few patients who survive into adulthood often develop symptoms of Kearns-Sayre syndrome. It is caused by a deletion in mitochondrial DNA. Pearson syndrome is very rare, less than hundred cases have been reported in medical literature worldwide.