Armoured cable or SWA (steel wired armoured) cable is the accepted standard for underground installations. This wire can be buried in the ground or can be fastened to exterior walls using cleats. The galvanised steel wire protects the wire from accidental damage caused by digging etc. The galvanised steel wire can be used as an additional earth and sometimes is used as the only earth, although this is not recommended. When the armoured cable terminates at an appliance or junction box a gland is used. You must get the correct size and type of gland for the job at hand. If it is outside the gland must be waterproof
Steel wire armoured cable, commonly abbreviated as SWA, is a hard-wearing power cable designed for the supply of mains electricity. It is one of a number of armoured electrical cables – which include 11kV Cable and 33kV Cable – and is found in underground systems, power networks and cable ducting.
Steel wire armour is only used on multicore versions of the cable. A multicore cable, as the name suggests, is one where there are a number of different cores. When cable has only one core, aluminium wire armour (AWA) is used instead of steel wire. This is because the aluminium is non-magnetic. It is one of a number of armoured electrical cables – which include 11kV Cable and 33kV Cable – and is found in underground systems, power networks and cable ducting.
Armored electrical cable contains insulated electrical service wires protected by a flexible steel covering. Unarmored electrical cable has no protective flexible steel covering, its covering is made of plastic. Armored cable (BX) is the older version of Metal Clad cable (MC). It was flexible steel covered wire that used the steel as it's Ground. BX was a poor grounding system so it was replaced with MC which looks similar but has a separate Grounding conductor. Armored cable that has a inbedded tape that is used for grounding purposes. The steel tape is wrapped around the inner conductors which carry the load current. A heavy rubber … coating is applied over the steel tape layer.
The 'armor' is actually a thin flexible metal film that better-protects the wire or wires inside from damage in high use or high traffic areas. Such kinds of armored cable are also used in radio frequency assemblies in electronic equipment. Armored cable that has a inbedded tape that is used for grounding purposes. The steel tape is wrapped around the inner conductors which carry the load current. A heavy rubber … coating is applied over the steel tape layer.
How to Use Armored (BX) Electrical Cable. Electrical cable encased in metal sheathing is often used in basements and other areas where the wire is not encased in a finished wall. It is handled differently that standard Romex (non-sheathed) cable. Ad. Cut across the armor-not with the spiral. It is not necessary to cut completely through the armor. When the cut is nearly through, grab the wire above and below the cut and twist sharply-this should break the remaining armor without the need for the saw to contact the wires inside. Use caution-the metal edges are sharp.
While one particular cable type is properly known as armored cable, the term is often used as a generic to refer to all power cables covered in metal. In reality, there are three basic forms of metal-covered cables, each with its own features. 
When transmitting data or conducting power in harsh environments, protecting your cables is crucial to safe and reliable operation. This is where armored cables come into play. They are used primarily in industrial applications, often in cable trays and raceways. They often not used in flexing applications. While they could operate there, the connector cable would create a weak link. To combat this, you should use either a high-flex cable on the inside or discreet wires. A variety of armored cable designs from Mencom Corp. Armored cables feature some type of metal sheath that is the first layer of armor. It is usually made of interlocking or continuous aluminum or stainless steel, or it can be covered in a smooth or corrugated metal tape
Some kinds of armored cable are in fact made to a tougher standard than the ordinary soft wire strand types of shielded cable that are used for hooking-up antennas. The 'armor' is actually a thin flexible metal film that better protects the wire or wires inside from damage in high use or high traffic areas. Such kinds of armored cable are also used in radio frequency assemblies in electronic equipment. + 42 others found this useful.