Film critic Steve Schneider calls Jones' version of Daffy a kind of unleashed id .. Jones said that his version of the character expresses all of the things we're afraid to express.. This is evident in Jones' Duck Amuck (1953), one of the few unarguable masterpieces of American animation, according to Schneider. 
Daffy Duck is an animated cartoon character in the Warner Bros. Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies series of cartoons. 
Daffy Duck is a Looney Tunes character created by Tex Avery (although Bob Clampett contributed to Daffy's personality) in 1937. He was the first of the new breed of screwball characters that emerged in the late 1930s to supplant traditional everyman characters, such as Mickey Mouse and Porky Pig. 
Daffy was number 14 on TV Guide ' s list of top 50 best cartoon characters and was featured on one of the issue's four covers as Duck Dodgers with Porky Pig and the Powerpuff Girls (all of which are Time Warner-owned characters). In a spoof of the TV shows Superman { Stupor Duck } and The Millionaire { The Million Hare } Daffy tries to be a superhero and then compete with Bugs Bunny for a $1,000,000.00 prize but loses both times because of his own foolishness.
1 Daffy and Bugs are the only two characters that appear in every episode. 2  Daffy's middle name is Sheldon, but he prefers using the name Armando.. 3  Daffy's birthday is April 17th, a reference to his debut in an old Looney Tunes cartoon, Porky's Duck Hunt. Daffy Sheldon Duck is Bugs' best friend. Ego-maniacal and unapologetically flawed, Daffy has been staying with his best friend, Bugs Bunny for five years, until he gets back on his feet, which takes time to do so. Daffy is a very daft and dramatic character. He is the deuteragonist of The Looney Tunes Show franchise
Duck Amuck is a surreal 1951 animated cartoon produced by Warner Bros. and released in 1953 as part of the Merrie Melodies series and starring Daffy Duck, who is tormented by a sadistic, unseen animator who constantly changes Daffy's location, clothing, voice, physical appearance, and even shape. 
Daffy was one of the first of the new  screwball  characters that emerged in the late 1930s to replace traditional everyman characters who were more popular earlier in the decade, such as Mickey Mouse and Popeye. In a spoof of the TV shows Superman { Stupor Duck } and The Millionaire { The Million Hare } Daffy tries to be a superhero and then compete with Bugs Bunny for a $1,000,000.00 prize but loses both times because of his own foolishness.