Generalized vasoconstriction usually results in an increase in systemic blood pressure, but it may also occur in specific tissues, causing a localized reduction in blood flow. The extent of vasoconstriction may be slight or severe depending on the substance or circumstance. For example, vasoconstriction is a hypothermic preventative in which the blood vessels constrict and blood must move at a higher pressure to actively prevent a hypoxic reaction. ATP is used as a form of energy to increase this pressure to heat the body.
Vasoconstriction: - decreases the amount of blood flow. - used to retain heat when cold. - increase in blood pressure. Vasodilation: - increases amount of blood flow. - used to cool down when hot (ie during exercise, which is why some people get really red). - decrease in blood pressure. 
Best Answer: Vasodilation and vasoconstriction occur in order to control blood pressure and body temperature. Vasoconstriction causes the vessel to reduce its diameter, resulting in raised pressure and increase in body temp caused by friction from the blood passing through the internal walls of the vessel. Report Abuse. It is the widening (vasodilation) and narrowing (vasoconstriction) of blood vessels. Vasodilation causes a reduction in blood pressure, and vasoconstriction, of course, does just the opposite. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vasodilatio... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vasoconstri..
Vasoconstriction is the narrowing of the blood vessels resulting from contraction of the muscular wall of the vessels, in particular the large arteries and small arterioles. The process is the opposite of vasodilation, the widening of blood vessels. For example, vasoconstriction is a hypothermic preventative in which the blood vessels constrict and blood must move at a higher pressure to actively prevent a hypoxic reaction. ATP is used as a form of energy to increase this pressure to heat the body.
Vasoconstriction. by admin Leave a Comment. Vasoconstriction is the process of constriction of blood vessels, which may result in decrease of flow of blood. Normal blood flow is necessary for carrying oxygenated blood to all parts of the body and when the normal flow is disrupted it may cause various problems. Your doctor should find out the underlying factors that cause vasoconstriction before giving treatment. He may prescribe alpha adrenoreceptor antagonist (which is a vasodilator) for reducing the constriction of blood vessels and increasing blood flow.
Definition of vasodilation. Vasodilation (definition) = the increase in the internal diameter of blood vessels that is caused by relaxation of smooth muscles within the wall of the vessels, thus causing an increase in blood flow. The opposite effect is vasoconstriction. 
The opposite of this phenomenon is vasoconstriction. During dilation, the blood vessels dilate and the bold flow increases owing to a decrease in vascular resistance. Among all the arterial dilators, CO2, the natural dilating agent, is the most powerful substance. Healthy people experience the vasodilation effect due to normal arterial CO2 concentration in their body.
Vasoconstriction seen after phenylephrine may cause vasoconstriction of extracranial vessels without causing a decrease in cerebral oxygenation. (Image source: Thinkstock). To maintain cerebral perfusion during systemic hypotension, it is common clinical practice to raise blood pressure using a vasopressor. 