Hound Dog Breeds. The hounds are the original hunting dogs, many pre-dating the gun-assisting hunters in their sporting group. There is a great deal of diversity, both behavioral and physical, within this group, a history of hunting assistance often being the only common bond among some of the hound breeds. In size, they range from the tall and lanky Irish wolfhound to the short-legged dachshund. A hound by origin only, the dachshund might seem to be out of place in this group, as its background as a digger accustomed to chasing foxes and badgers underground would more logically make it a terrier.
Some of the oldest breeds of domestic dogs are the speedy sight hounds. Saluki and pharaoh hounds, in particular, can trace their origins back to antiquity. Images of dogs closely resembling these breeds are depicted on the walls of the tombs of the Egyptian pharaohs. In size, they range from the tall and lanky Irish wolfhound to the short-legged dachshund. A hound by origin only, the dachshund might seem to be out of place in this group, as its background as a digger accustomed to chasing foxes and badgers underground would more logically make it a terrier.
Look up hound in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. A hound is a type of dog that assists hunters by tracking or chasing the animal being hunted. It can be contrasted with the gun dog, which assists hunters by identifying the location of prey and/or recovers shot quarry. The hound breeds were the first hunting dogs. They have a powerful speed and sense of smell.
In some cases, a breed's origin overlaps the boundaries of two or more countries; the dog is normally listed only in the country with which it is most commonly associated (for example, by its designated country according to the Federation Fédération Cynologique (INTERNATIONALE). fci The process continues today, resulting in a wide variety of breeds, hybrids, and types of dog. As such, dogs are the only animal with such a wide variation in appearance without speciation, from the Chihuahua to the Great Dane..
Dogs have been selectively bred for thousands of years, sometimes by inbreeding dogs from the same ancestral lines, sometimes by mixing dogs from very different lines. The process continues today, resulting in a wide variety of breeds, hybrids, and types of dog. As such, dogs are the only animal with such a wide variation in appearance without speciation, from the Chihuahua to the Great Dane.. The following list uses a wide interpretation of breed.. Breeds are usually categorized by the functional type from which the breed was developed. The basic types are companion dogs, guard dogs, hunting dogs, herding dogs, and working dogs, although there are many other types and subtyp
Most hounds share the common ancestral trait of being used for hunting. Some use acute scenting powers to follow a trail. Beyond this, however, generalizations about hounds are hard to come by, since the Group encompasses quite a diverse lot. There are Pharaoh Hounds, Norwegian Elkhounds, Afghans and Beagles, among others. Some hounds share the distinct ability to produce a unique sound known as baying.
Regardless of the type of hound, all dogs in this group are independent creatures that like to decide on their own terms whether or not they will obey a particular command. What makes this group of dogs so distinguished from other dogs is their unique unique strengths; excellent scent recognition, ability to spot an animal far in the distance, and rocket-like speed.
Hound Group. Most hounds share the common ancestral trait of being used for hunting. Some use acute scenting powers to follow a trail. Others demonstrate a phenomenal gift of stamina as they relentlessly run down quarry. Beyond this, however, generalizations about hounds are hard to come by, since the Group encompasses quite a diverse lot. There are Pharaoh Hounds, Norwegian Elkhounds, Afghans and Beagles, among others. Some hounds share the distinct ability to produce a unique sound known as baying.
The Hound Group is extremely diverse. The breeds range from the Pharaoh Hound to Beagles, Elkhounds to Bloodhounds. They come in a variety of sizes and coat types, and their personalities range from rambunctious and outgoing to laid-back and nonchalant. What makes this group of dogs so distinguished from other dogs is their unique unique strengths; excellent scent recognition, ability to spot an animal far in the distance, and rocket-like speed.