Demand for Business Majors is High. The demand for business majors will always be high because there are an endless number of career opportunities available to individuals with a good business education. Employers in every industry need people who have been trained to organize, plan, and manage within an organization. In fact, there are many companies in the business industry who rely on business school recruiting alone to acquire new employees. There are Plenty of Opportunities for Specialization. Majoring in business isn't as straightforward as most people believe it is.
As the author of a book called  Not Just a Living , about lifestyle entrepreneurs, and a former long-time columnist on the same topic for The Wall Street Journal 's Startup Journal online publication, I have long taken the position that people start businesses primarily in search of independence. Otherwise, it's almost as if every entrepreneur has a different reason for going into business. If you look only at people who have started fast-growth businesses, for instance, you find people whose biggest single motivation is wealth creation, according to this 2009 study for the Kauffman Foundation.
Soerensen sørensen says individuals who want to innovate’don t have to do it on their. Own ideas that create value often develop within, firms a process sometimes called.. Intrapreneurship he adds that most of the people who become entrepreneurs’don t create very innovative -; companies and they’don t necessarily intend. to Despite the romanticized image of billion-dollar paydays for founders of tech firms, taking the leap into entrepreneurship is fraught with risk. So then why do so many workers give up the security of a steady paycheck and strike out on their own?
If possible, serious consideration when selecting a partner should be given to respected business associates or business acquaintances instead of family members or close friends. Two is company, three is a crowd. This is an old adage that may be particularly apropos to partnerships and should be heeded indeed. With three partners, the potential for ongoing conflict increases unless one partner has a controlling interest.
Other motivators included capitalizing on a business idea, the appeal of a startup culture, a desire to own a company, and lack of interest in working for someone else. Only the last resembles a desire for independence. Fast-growth entrepreneurs are, of course, a minority. But even when we examine the vast, amorphous, heaving body of small business owners, we don't find that independence and the freedom to make their own decisions is the only, or even the main reason people start businesses. Otherwise, it's almost as if every entrepreneur has a different reason for going into business. If you look only at people who have started fast-growth businesses, for instance, you find people whose biggest single motivation is wealth creation, according to this 2009 study for the Kauffman Foundation.
There are two primary reasons why one should have a partner. Either you need someone to share the work load or you need someone to share the cost and the investment until your business is running profitably. Two is company, three is a crowd. This is an old adage that may be particularly apropos to partnerships and should be heeded indeed. With three partners, the potential for ongoing conflict increases unless one partner has a controlling interest.
According to the Small Business Administration (see SBA reference-page 1), approximately 30 percent of small businesses close their doors within the first two years. Yet people still start their own businesses on a regular basis. There are many factors that drive entrepreneurs to strike out on their own. An entrepreneur might feel that doing business with a large corporation, or working for a larger company, can become very impersonal. The drive to start a business comes from the desire to put a personal touch back into doing business.
• Have a sound and detailed business plan that also defines each partners responsibilities. • Agree on a mechanism for mediation or a plan to break a voting deadlock. • Have a buyout formula or plan of action in the event of death, major illness, dispute, and the like, such as life and disability insurance. Two is company, three is a crowd. This is an old adage that may be particularly apropos to partnerships and should be heeded indeed. With three partners, the potential for ongoing conflict increases unless one partner has a controlling interest.
There are still more creative reasons many people think of to have or want a partner but each one of these really comes back to sharing the work load or sharing the cost. More…Partnerships are complex and intense relationships not unlike marriages. Two is company, three is a crowd. This is an old adage that may be particularly apropos to partnerships and should be heeded indeed. With three partners, the potential for ongoing conflict increases unless one partner has a controlling interest.
It's a question with many answers. Often these individuals are not entirely sure themselves, and the answers to the question are apt to change over time as their perceptions change. I divide the reasons in to two broad categories: the reactive reasons and the active reasons. 1 What a thrill! 2  Personal financial gain-For some people this is very important, for others less so. 3  Gains can come more quickly and can be much greater than when working for someone else; this is not a negligible consideration. 4  For most people becoming an entrepreneur is the only way available to make a lot of money.