A beef roast cooked to medium-rare should have an internal temperature of 145°F - 150ºF after the resting period, and a roast cooked to medium should have an internal temperature of 150°F to 160ºF. (See the note below). See Beef Doneness for more information on proper cooking temperatures. Do not cover the roast and do not add any liquid (liquid is used for braising, not roasting). Allow the beef to roast at 450°F for 45 minutes and then begin checking the internal temperature of the meat with a meat thermometer.
1 You want to try to keep the internal temperature of the roast below 122 degrees. 2  Adjust oven temperature as needed, or open door briefly, to keep that temperature down. 3  For a medium rare roast, cook to 115, remove from oven. 4  Turn oven off. 
©2006. 1. Now We’re Cooking 1. Beef steak: cook to an internal temperature of145˚F (63˚C) for fifteen seconds.2. Duck: cook to an internal temperature of 165˚F(74˚C) for fifteen seconds.3. Hamburger patties: cook to an internal temperatureof 155˚F (68˚C) for fifteen seconds.4. Injected roast: cook to an internal temperatureof 155˚F (68˚C) for fifteen seconds.8. Stuffing: cook to an internal temperature of165˚F (74˚C) for fifteen seconds.9. Turkey chili: cook to an internal temperature of 165˚F (74˚C) for fifteen seconds. 2. Easy as 1-2-3 1. Cover food to prevent drying.2.
1 Cook the roast for about 10 to 15 minutes and then turn it over in the pan. 2  Continue to cook it for another 10 to 15 minutes for every pound. 3  Remove the tenderloin from the oven when the internal temperature of the meat reaches 140°F, as indicated on a meat thermometer inserted into the center of the roast. Do not cover the roast and do not add any liquid (liquid is used for braising, not roasting). Allow the beef to roast at 450°F for 45 minutes and then begin checking the internal temperature of the meat with a meat thermometer.
Traditional guidelines for doneness state that beef cooked very rare, rare, or medium-rare should have an internal temperature ranging between 115ºF to 140°F. Many people prefer beef cooked rare (especially steak), but this decision is up to the consumer and is certainly not recommended by the USDA. Whole beef cuts usually have bacteria only on the surface, but it is possible for harmful bacteria to be present in the internal portions, so cooking the meat to an internal temperature of 145°F is sufficient to kill the bacteria. (The surface of the meat will be at a much higher temperature; usually 160°F or above)
Temperature is a gauge of how thoroughly cooked a cut of meat is based on the color, juiciness and internal temperature when cooked. The gradations of cooking are most often used in reference to beef (especially steak and roasts) but are also applicable to lamb, pork, poultry, veal and seafood (especially fish). 
Beef-Lamb-Veal Roasts-Steaks-Chops. For roasts of lamb, beef, or veal: place the thermometer midway inside the roast away from bone. Residual Heat or Carry-Over Cooking: Remember, the steak will continue to cook as it sets. The temperature will rise 5 degrees F. to 10 degrees F. internal temperature. It measures the internal temperature of your cooked meat, poultry, seafood, breads, baked goods, and/or casseroles to assure that a safe temperature has been reached and that harmful bacteria (like certain strains of Salmonella and E. Coli O 157:H7) has been destroyed.
That is the beauty of the meat thermometer as it is an accurate way of measuring that internal temperature of the meat during cooking. How to tell when your beef, lamb, veal or goat is done. When your meat is done (be it a steak or a roast), the internal temperature of the meat will be: 1  Rare 60ºC. 2  Medium rare 60-65ºC. 3  Medium 65-70ºC.
Place the beef on a rack in a shallow roasting pan with the fat side up. Do not cover the roast and do not add any liquid (liquid is used for braising, not roasting). Allow the beef to roast at 450°F for 45 minutes and then begin checking the internal temperature of the meat with a meat thermometer. Continue roasting the meat until the internal temperature has reached 5 or 10 degrees below the desired doneness