Adv. 1. therein - (formal) in or into that thing or place; they can read therein what our plans are. in that, in this. formality-compliance with formal rules; courtroom formality. View in context. For all which I shall not look on myself as accountable to any court of critical jurisdiction whatever: for as I am, in reality, the founder of a new province of writing, so I am at liberty to make what laws I please therein.
2. : in that statement, fact, or detail. They have to make a decision soon. Therein lies the problem. [=that is why there is a problem] If they act too quickly, they run the risk of choosing the wrong plan. [+] more examples [-] hide examples [+] Example sentences [-] Hide examples. Comments & Questions.
Full Definition of THEREIN. 1. : in or into that place, time, or thing. 2. See therein defined for English-language learners. See therein defined for kids. Examples of THEREIN. 1  The insurance covers the apartment and all the property therein. 2  His name was mentioned in the article, although he was incorrectly described therein as a medical doctor.
How many is a billion? The answer may seem obvious, but the use of this word can lead to confusion. In the UK and Ireland the word traditionally meant the number 1,000,000,000,000 (a million millions), which is called a trillion in the United States. A billion in the United States is considerably. Read More ►. 
adverb. Therein is defined as in that circumstance, place or time. An example of therein is making a reference to a person within a certain situation; he was therein, so he knew the situation.
The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning. 90% of the time, speakers of English use just 7,500 words in speech and writing. These words appear in red, and are graded with stars. One-star words are frequent, two-star words are more frequent, and three-star words are the most frequent. Close
adverb. In that place, document, or respect: it shall be sufficient evidence of the facts therein contained the student has not been resident therein therein lie all the problems. More example sentences. 1  And therein lies the tragedy of the public's mislaid focus on this one annual meeting. 1 And therein lies the tragedy of the public's mislaid focus on this one annual meeting. 2  No one is safe in this competition and therein lies its allure. 3  Not a lot has changed-it's still the same shabby dive that it always was-but therein lies its charm, you see.