Himalayas. The Himalayas, a huge mountain range immediately at the north of the Indian subcontinent, is the world's highest mountain range, and home to the world's highest peaks, including Mount Everest at 8,848 m (29,029 ft), and K2 at 8,611 m (28,251 feet) above sea level. The Altay Mountains are a mountain range in East-Central Asia, where Russia, China, Mongolia and Kazakhstan come together, and where the rivers Irtysh and Ob have their sources. Belukha Mountain is the highest peak at 4,506 m, (14,784 ft). Ghats.
1 Kanchenjunga, is the highest point in India on this mountain range. 2  The Himalayas are also world’s youngest mountains extending up to 2,500 km in length. 3  It stretches all the way from Jammu and Kashmir in the north to Arunachal Pradesh in the east. 4  Most of the peaks in this region are snowbound throughout the year. Himalayan Mountain Range. 1  The Himalayas are the world’s highest mountain range. 2  Mt. Everest standing at 29,929 ft, on the Nepal-China border, is the tallest mountain found in this region and also in the world. 3  This mountain range has a number of peaks that rise over 22,966 ft in height
India is home to some of the tallest and gallant mountain ranges in the world. These ranges come with some of the most attractive sceneries and ecosystems in the world. The diversified altitudes and ranges feature a wide range of flora and fauna. Mountains of India can be broadly categorized into the following: The Great Himalayas. Stretching for more than 2,500 km from the East to West, and 250 km to 400 km from South to North, the Himalayan Mountain Ranges are one of the natural wonders of
1 This mountain range has a number of peaks that rise over 22,966 ft in height. 2  Kanchenjunga, is the highest point in India on this mountain range. 3  The Himalayas are also world’s youngest mountains extending up to 2,500 km in length. Himalayan Mountain Range. 1  The Himalayas are the world’s highest mountain range. 2  Mt. Everest standing at 29,929 ft, on the Nepal-China border, is the tallest mountain found in this region and also in the world. 3  This mountain range has a number of peaks that rise over 22,966 ft in height
1. Himalayas. One of the natural wonders of the world, the Great Himalayan Mountain is the highest mountain range in India. This huge mountain covers nearly five countries including Nepal, Bhutan, Pakistan, India, and People’s Republic of China. This famous mountain derived its name from Sanskrit language which means Abode of Snow. Stretched across the Indian states of Rajasthan, Gujarat, Delhi, and Haryana, the Aravalli Ranges are considered to be the oldest mountains in India. Aravalli means line of peaks and you can see a range of mountains that is spread across 800 km in northeastern direction.
The Himalayas. The Himalayas, the highest mountain range in the world, extend along the northern frontiers of Pakistan, India, Nepal, Bhutan, and Burma. They were formed geologically as a result of the collision of the Indian subcontinent with Asia
The Himalayas, the most majestic and highest mountain range in the world, lie principally in China. Also the longest mountain range in China, they stretch fro 2,400 kilometers from west to east and 200-300 kilometers from north to south in China's Tibet, Pakistan, India, Nepal, Sikkim and Bhutan. 
1 The Himalayas are the world’s highest mountain range. 2  Mt. Everest standing at 29,929 ft, on the Nepal-China border, is the tallest mountain found in this region and also in the world. 3  This mountain range has a number of peaks that rise over 22,966 ft in height. Himalayan Mountain Range. 1  The Himalayas are the world’s highest mountain range. 2  Mt. Everest standing at 29,929 ft, on the Nepal-China border, is the tallest mountain found in this region and also in the world.