Qualifying Child. A dependent must be either a qualifying child or qualifying relative.. Only qualifying children have an age test. A qualifying child must be under 19 at the end of the year. If your child is a full-time student, you can claim an exemption until she's 24 years old. If she becomes permanently and totally disabled, you can potentially claim her as a dependent at any age. 
You can only claim a qualifying-child exemption if your child lives with you for at least half the year. The IRS offers a number of exceptions for this test. If your 20-year-old is at college eight months of the year, you can still claim him; if he stays with relatives while you're on military duty, he still qualifies. Age. You have to stop claiming your child when she turns 19, unless she goes on to become a full-time student. In that case, you keep claiming the exemption until she's 24, as long as she meets the other qualifying-child tests. After a child reaches age 24, you can only claim her if she's completely and totally disabled. If she marries and starts filing a joint return, even if she's under 19, you lose the right to claim her on your tax
As long as your child's income doesn't exceed the amount you spent on support, and meets the other tests, you can claim the child as a dependent, says Terry Durkin, an enrolled agent in Burlington, Mass. For example, suppose your daughter graduated from college in May, found a job in September and earned $20,000. Claiming a parent as a dependent may be easier than claiming an older child or other relative, for two reasons: •Social Security isn't included in the gross income test. If Social Security is your parent's sole source of income, the income test isn't a problem for you.
1 There is an exception if your parent is filing jointly, but has no tax liability. 2  If your parent files a joint tax return solely to get a refund, you can claim him or her as a dependent. 3  Your parent must not have a gross income of $3,950 (in 2014) a year or more. 1 Your parent must not file a joint return. 2  If your parent is married, he or she must file separately. 3  There is an exception if your parent is filing jointly, but has no tax liability. 4
If you are caring for your mother or father, you may be able to claim your parent as a dependent on your income taxes. This would allow you to get an exemption ($3,950 for tax year 2014) for him or her. There are five tests to determine whether you can claim a parent as a dependent: 1  The person you are claiming as a dependent must be related to you. 1 Your parent must not file a joint return. 2  If your parent is married, he or she must file separately. 3  There is an exception if your parent is filing jointly, but has no tax liability. 4  If your parent files a joint tax return solely to get a refund, you can claim him or her as a dependent.
With tax season approaching, a lot of parents are grappling with another issue: Can you claim an adult child as a dependent on your tax return? For 2011, each dependent reduces your taxable income by $3,700. Claiming a parent as a dependent may be easier than claiming an older child or other relative, for two reasons: •Social Security isn't included in the gross income test. If Social Security is your parent's sole source of income, the income test isn't a problem for you.
You can reduce you total taxes owed by claiming a child as a dependent on your income tax return. But not all children qualify and age is a factor. In some cases, you can claim a child under the age of 19. In other instances, you can claim a child under the age of 24. As mentioned above, age is a factor in determining whether your child is a qualifying child for your tax return. If your child is a student or is disabled, then you can claim him or her as a dependent as long as your child is under age 24. Otherwise, the child must be under 19 years old. However, there are other tests that allow you to claim a dependency exemption for your child. These are as follows:
As long as the amount you spent on her support exceeded $20,000, you can claim her as a dependent, Durkin says. However, if you claim your child as a dependent, she can't claim a personal exemption on her own tax return. Claiming a parent as a dependent may be easier than claiming an older child or other relative, for two reasons: •Social Security isn't included in the gross income test. If Social Security is your parent's sole source of income, the income test isn't a problem for you.