The Picture of Dorian Gray is a 1945 American horror-drama film based on Oscar Wilde 's 1890 novel of the same name. The painting of Dorian Gray [edit]. Albright's painting of Dorian Gray, from the 1945 film. The painting entitled Picture of Dorian Gray used in the film was painted on commission during the making of the film in 1943-1944 by Ivan Le Lorraine Albright, an American artist who was well known as a painter of the macabre.
1. Explain the title. The title of the book is The picture of Dorian Gray. It s named like that because it s about a portrait of a young and exceptionally beautiful youngster, named Dorian Gray. The story further it s about how the portrait influences Dorian s life until his death. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Picture of Dorian Gray is a 1945 American horror-drama film based on Oscar Wilde 's 1890 novel of the same name. Released in March 1945 by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, the film is directed by Albert Lewin and stars George Sanders as Lord Henry Wotton and Hurd Hatfield as Dorian Gray. The painting of Dorian Gray [edit]. Albright's painting of Dorian Gray, from the 1945 film. The painting entitled Picture of Dorian Gray used in the film was painted on commission during the making of the film in 1943-1944 by Ivan Le Lorraine Albright, an American artist who was well known as a painter of the macabre.
In terms of the literary part, you might consider Wilde's concern with showing Dorian's thoughts in depth, as well as his exploration of Basil and Lord Henry. While it shows some levels of psychological detail, the novel is also highly symbolic and allegorical; Wilde was no stranger to metaphor. 
Indeed, the book's literary success may contribute to these questions of genre, fueling the debate concerning popular versus literary fiction. Do an online search for Dorian Gray's genre and you will find it described as Gothic, philosophical, romantic, comedic, and even a treatise about aestheticism. In terms of themes and tone, though, the novel definitely falls into the category of horror. In its language and themes, Dorian Gray presents the best of what horror fiction can achieve--a work of art that still generates comment and debate today, more than a hundred years after its publication. Works Cited. Carroll, Noel.
This theme is exemplified by the titular portrait. Dorian Gray 's image reflects his conscience and his true self, and serves as a mirror of his soul. This fact echoes Wilde's statement (found in the preface) that It is the spectator...that art really mirrors.. The Question and Answer section for The Picture of Dorian Gray is a great resource to ask questions, find answers, and discuss the novel. The Picture of Dorian Gray. Dorian Grey is a physically beautiful young man and people validate his good looks.
The Picture of Dorian Gray is a philosophical novel by the writer Oscar Wilde, first published complete in the July 1890 issue of Lippincott's Monthly Magazine. The magazine's editor feared the story was indecent, and without Wilde's knowledge, deleted roughly five hundred words before publication. Consequent to the harsh criticism of the magazine edition of the novel, the textual revisions to The Picture of Dorian Gray included a preface in which Wilde addressed the criticisms and defended the reputation of his novel.
About the literary hero, the author Oscar Wilde said, “in every first novel the hero is the author as Christ or Faust .” As in the legend of Faust, in The Picture of Dorian Gray a temptation (ageless beauty) is placed before the protagonist, which he indulges. Consequent to the harsh criticism of the magazine edition of the novel, the textual revisions to The Picture of Dorian Gray included a preface in which Wilde addressed the criticisms and defended the reputation of his novel.
The longer and revised version of The Picture of Dorian Gray published in book form in 1891 featured an aphoristic preface — a defence of the artist's rights and of art for art's sake—based in part on his press defences of the novel the previous year. Consequent to the harsh criticism of the magazine edition of the novel, the textual revisions to The Picture of Dorian Gray included a preface in which Wilde addressed the criticisms and defended the reputation of his novel.
Besides the language and emotion of horror, Dorian Gray also tackles themes common in horror fiction. Noel Carroll asserts that most suspense in horror fiction...has two logically opposed outcomes such that...one is morally correct but unlikely and the other is evil and likely (138). In its language and themes, Dorian Gray presents the best of what horror fiction can achieve--a work of art that still generates comment and debate today, more than a hundred years after its publication. Works Cited. Carroll, Noel.