Direct causes of deforestation are agricultural expansion, wood extraction (e.g., logging or wood harvest for domestic fuel or charcoal), and infrastructure expansion such as road building and urbanization. Rarely is there a single direct cause for deforestation.
One of the causes of deforestation in any type of forest is logging, which is used to harvest the natural resources of the forest. Forests are often cleared because those in charge of the woodland want to use the area for a different purpose, such as agriculture, cattle ranching or mining.
In the Amazon, industrial-scale cattle ranching and soybean production for world markets are increasingly important causes of deforestation, and in Indonesia, the conversion of tropical forest to commercial palm tree plantations to produce bio-fuels for export is a major cause of deforestation on Borneo and Sumatra.
Causes of Deforestation. For the most part, human activity is to blame for deforestation, though natural disasters do play a role. So let's take a look at how and why humans deforest areas. Logging, or cutting down trees in a forest to harvest timber for wood, products or fuel, is a primary driver of d
The single biggest direct cause of tropical deforestation is conversion to cropland and pasture, mostly for subsistence, which is growing crops or raising livestock to meet daily needs. The conversion to agricultural land usually results from multiple direct factors.
Atmospheric – For global warming deforestation is the major contributor. Deforestation causes of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. As the concentration of carbon dioxide increases, a layer forms in the atmosphere that traps sun radiation. This radiation gets converted to heat and causes global warming.
Confidence votes 62. Deforestation is caused by humans and natural changes on earth. On the natural side, as the tectonic plates have moved, mountains form and erode, rainfall patterns change, and forests respond to these changes over long periods of time.