3. Apply adhesive to surface foor the relining material. Let the denture to dry for 1 minute. Adhesive is applied evenly on the surfaces which are to retain the soft relining material. 4. Mix equal lengths of base and catalyst for 30 seconds. Ufi Gel P Base and Catalyst. 5. Apply to denture, working time is 2 minutes. Procedure for Direct Relining of Denture with a Permanent soft relining material (Ufi Gel P by Voco). Voco Ufi Gel P Permanent soft A-silicone relining material. 1. Grind down all surfaces to be relined by at least 1 mm.
Soft Denture Reline -- For patients whose gums are too tender for hard relining, dentists may opt to reline the denture surface with a softer, more flexible material. Although easier on the gums, this type of relining may have to be replaced more often to maintain a proper fit. There are two types of denture relines: Hard Denture Reline -- The impression material is replaced with a hard pink acrylic that is perfectly formed to the contours of your mouth. This type of relining is recommended every two years and provides the most contact with your gum tissue for maximum hold.
Financial benefits are also easy to see. While the typical lab fee for a soft reline runs about $250, the material cost for relining an upper denture with Tokuyama Sofreliner is just about $50. With Tokuyama’s Rebase II hard reline material, the price is about $5 for an upper denture, compared to an average $185. So dentures need to be relined every two to four years. For a new denture patient, they lose 4 mm in the first year. So we do a soft lining initially, followed by a hard reline after 12 months, then six months after that and again six months after that.
Over time your bone and gum will slowly shrink, this changes the shape of the ridges that support your denture. This may result in a denture that no longer fits as well as it used to. The solution may be a reline for your complete or partial denture. The two most common types of denture relines are hard and soft relines. A hard reline is created by placing a soft putty inside the denture and then placing the denture inside of the mouth, which allows the gums to mould it into shape. It is used as a temporary replacement for hard relines while the gums heal and is replaced with a hard reline once the healing process is over. If your dentures need a reline, contact our friendly team on (07) 3221 0677 to book your appointment!
All full dentures should have a hard reline every two years. An in house laboratory reline will be done at Distinctive Dentures, it is considered the best type of reline available and the longest lasting. The acrylic is processed and cured in the laboratory in the same way that the acrylic of the original denture is cured.
Laboratory denture relines cost more than chairside ones in part because the dentist incurs an expense from the dental lab that performs the work. Fee estimate for laboratory reline: (Your dentist's cost.). 1  Reline services, complete denture, hard plastic. - 2  $50.00 to $75.00. With a chairside reline, a runny plastic is placed directly into the patient's denture. The denture is then seated in the patient's mouth. As the plastic hardens, it captures the shape of the patient's gum tissue.
The material cost for a chairside soft reline is about $50, vs. $250 in lab fees. Material cost for a hard reline is as low as $5 for an upper denture, compared to $185 to have a lab do it. See how much you could save by using the financial calculator at IsChairsideRightForMe.com. TOP 5 REASONS TO CONSIDERCHAIRSIDE RELINE 5. So dentures need to be relined every two to four years. For a new denture patient, they lose 4 mm in the first year. So we do a soft lining initially, followed by a hard reline after 12 months, then six months after that and again six months after that.
As with a soft reline sent to a lab, you would be without your dentures for whatever time period it takes to complete the fix. So, as you can see, denture relining is an effective method to reshape a denture when it starts to give you difficulty. 
And for this reason, one portion of the expense involved with providing this procedure for you is paying their dental laboratory's bill. Estimate of complete denture dental lab fees: (Your dentist's cost.). 1  Complete denture (upper or lower) - $145.00 to $240.00. With a chairside reline, a runny plastic is placed directly into the patient's denture. The denture is then seated in the patient's mouth. As the plastic hardens, it captures the shape of the patient's gum tissue.