1 In the U.S., infection with hepatitis C is the most common cause of chronic hepatitis and the most common reason for liver transplantation. 2  Hepatitis C is diagnosed by determining levels in the blood of antibodies to the virus and then confirming the infection with other tests for viral RNA. 1 A minority of patients with hepatitis C have symptoms from organs outside of the liver. 2 
This inflammation can be caused by contagious diseases such as viral infections. Hepatitis can also be caused by exposure to alcohol, certain medications, chemicals, poisons, and other toxins, or by other diseases. hepatitis C (HCV) is one of the many viruses that can cause inflammation of the liver. Inflammation of the liver caused by infection with HCV is referred to as hepatitis C. 1  If the infection does not resolve, it becomes chronic (ongoing, long term) and can cause chronic liver disease, which can be serious or even fatal
About Hepatitis C Infection. Hepatitis C is a disease caused by a virus that infects your liver. Your liver is an important organ in your body and has many functions. The liver removes harmful chemicals from your body, aids digestion, and processes vitamins and nutrients from food. Infectious liver disease caused by the hepatitis C virus for which there is no vaccine and which commonly becomes chronic. Now the most common cause of cirrhosis in the United States. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: NIH-National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases and National Library of Medicine).
Cause. Hepatitis C is a liver disease that is caused by infection with the hepatitis C virus, a virus that lives in your liver cells.
Hepatitis C infection is an infection of the liver caused by the hepatitis C virus (HCV). It is difficult for the human immune system to eliminate hepatitis C from the body, and infection with hep C usually becomes chronic. Over decades, chronic infection with hepatitis C damages the liver and can cause liver failure. 
An overview of Hepatitis C: Hepatitis C is a disease that is caused by a virus in which affects your liver. Over time it can cause permanent liver damage, liver cancer, and even liver damage. Most people are unaware that they have hepatitis C until it has already caused some damage to their liver. Causes of hepatitis C: Hepatitis C is spread through the contact of an infected person blood. Hepatitis C is caused from the hepatitis C virus. The most common way to receive hepatitis C is from sharing needles and any other equipment you may use to take illegal drugs.
Hepatitis C is a disease caused by a virus that infects the liver. The virus, called the Hepatitis C virus or HCV for short, is just one of the hepatitis viruses. The other common hepatitis viruses are A and B, which differ somewhat from HCV in the way they are spread and treated. 
1 Hepatitis C is a liver disease caused by the hepatitis C virus: the virus can cause both acute and chronic hepatitis infection, ranging in severity from a mild illness lasting a few weeks to a serious, lifelong illness. 1 The hepatitis C virus is a bloodborne virus and the most common modes of infection are through unsafe injection practices; inadequate sterilization of medical equipment; and the transfusion of unscreened blood and blood products. 2  130–150 million people globally have chronic hepatitis C infection.
Hepatitis C is a liver infection caused by the Hepatitis C virus (HCV). Hepatitis C is a blood-borne virus. Today, most people become infected with the Hepatitis C virus by sharing needles or other equipment to inject drugs. For some people, hepatitis C is a short-term illness but for 70%–85% of people who become infected with Hepatitis C, it becomes a long-term, chronic infection. 