1 You can find many tutorials to help with this around the web. 2  Do a google search for HTML code tutorials. 3  This article tells you how to create a web-page. 4  Consult the related wikiHows below for information on how to publish your web-page. 5  Make sure all errors are corrected so they can search it up easily. 
In our example we start with the most simple HTML. The title and a some text. If you look in the source of every web-page you will find these basic HTML codes. Meta tags have to be placed in the so called HEAD part of the website. For example, we want to sell wooden garden furniture on our website. We start very simple by adding a title, keywords and a description
Basics: HTML Title Tags The Roles of the Title Tag in a Web Page Search Engine Optimization and Web Usability Considerations in Creating Title Tags Web Page Title Tag Limits (Maximum Lengths) Using Keywords in Web Page Titles Getting Attention with your Title Tag Special Characters and ASCII Characters in Title Tags. 1 Microsoft's browser, called Internet Explorer, displays the first 95 characters of your title tag. 2  For title tags longer than 95 characters, Internet Explorer will simply crop the tag, as you can see it has done to the title of this Web page.
1 The term DOCTYPE tells the browser which type of HTML is used on a webpage. 2  In turn, the browsers use DOCTYPE to determine how to render a page. 3  Failing to use DOCTYPE or using a wrong DOCTYPE may load your page in Quirks Mode. 1 Semantic HTML is a coding style where the tags embody what the text is meant to convey. 2  In Semantic HTML, tags like for bold, and for italic should not be used, reason being they just represent formatting, and provide no indication of meaning or structure.
10 HTML Tags. This tutorial is an introduction to the 10 most common HTML tags. HTML is a very simple markup language. Even though there are close to 100 tags in HTML5, you usually only end up using a handful 99% of the time. I am going to teach you 10 HTML tags you need to markup almost all content and anything else you can think of when creating a web page. I am going to continue to carry on where I left off in the first tutorial: 
HTML tags are the building blocks of HTML. They are used to define the HTML elements that should appear on a web page. Without HTML tags, you wouldn't have an HTML page. Virtually every web page contains HTML tags (even if the website also uses other programming languages). 
The Roles of the Title Tag in a Web Page. Title tags play four roles on the Internet: 1  First, the title is used by resource librarians, directory editors, and other webmasters when they link to your page. 1 Microsoft's browser, called Internet Explorer, displays the first 95 characters of your title tag. 2  For title tags longer than 95 characters, Internet Explorer will simply crop the tag, as you can see it has done to the title of this Web page.
1 If you submit a page with a title like this, Title Tags-Title Tag Limit-Title Tag-Web Page Title-HTML Title Tags,  then you can expect to wait for a review. 1 Microsoft's browser, called Internet Explorer, displays the first 95 characters of your title tag. 2  For title tags longer than 95 characters, Internet Explorer will simply crop the tag, as you can see it has done to the title of this Web page.
The HTML Example Element () renders text between the start and end tags without interpreting the HTML in between and using a monospaced font. The HTML2 specification recommended that it should be rendered wide enough to allow 80 characters per line. Basic elements are the backbone of any HTML document. You'll see these elements in the source code for all web pages after the doctype declaration on the first line of the page. The doctype specifies which version of (X)HTML that page is using.