The FDIC was insurance, backed by the federal government, for deposits in banks. Its immediate effect on the economic situation in the 1930s was to restore public confidence on banks and stop the run on banks that occured after the Stock Market Crash. It was created so that people who again have confidence in the banking system. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insures individuals' deposits from member banks up $100,000.
This  caused the banks to fail. FDIC (Federal … Deposit Insurance  Corporation) guaranteed accounts giving people faith their money  was safe in the bank. It was created so that people who again have confidence in the banking system. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insures individuals' deposits from member banks up $100,000.
The Banking Act of 1933 established the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and was signed by FDR in 1933. It was created so that people who again have confidence in the banking system. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insures individuals' deposits from member banks up $100,000.
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) is a United States government corporation operating as an independent agency created by the Banking Act of 1933. 
The Federal Deposit Insurance Company (FDIC) was created in 1933 as a way to mitigate the damage caused by thousands of bank failures stemming from the stock market crash of 1929 and other risky investments. To avert any future banking catastrophes, Congress held a series of hearings related to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act of 1950. Many, including Jesse Jones (former head of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation) felt that the $1 billion held by the FDIC was enough to cover any financial issues.
Answer   The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation was created to guarantee bank deposits up to $5000. To prevent speculative abuses, it separated investment and commerci … al banking corporations and extended the Federal Reserve's regulatory power over credit. It was created so that people who again have confidence in the banking system. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insures individuals' deposits from member banks up $100,000.
DEFINITION of 'Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation-FDIC'. The U.S. corporation insuring deposits in the U.S. against bank failure. The FDIC was created in 1933 to maintain public confidence and encourage stability in the financial system through the promotion of sound banking practices. Next Up. BREAKING DOWN 'Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation-FDIC'. The FDIC will insure deposits of up to US$250,000 per institution as long as the bank is a member firm. Before opening an account with a financial institution, be sure to check that it is FDIC insured.
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) is an independent agency of the federal government responsible for insuring deposits made by individuals and companies in banks and other thrift institutions. The FDIC insures deposits up to $250,000. To avert any future banking catastrophes, Congress held a series of hearings related to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act of 1950. Many, including Jesse Jones (former head of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation) felt that the $1 billion held by the FDIC was enough to cover any financial issues.
The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) was set up as a response to the number of bank failures during the Great Depression in the 1930s. It is an agency that is backed by the government and insures the money that you have deposited in your bank in the event that the bank fails. 
Confidence votes 37. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation was created to guarantee bank deposits up to $5000. To prevent speculative abuses, it separated investment and commercial banking corporations and extended the Federal Reserve's regulatory power over credit. The Banking Act of 1933 established the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and was signed by FDR in 1933. The FDIC was insurance, backed by the federal government, for depo … sits in banks.