Usually they try to keep kids within the district they live in, but the school may have a policy that would allow you to move your kids into this school if you have a reason for it. Contact the administration and see what they can do...a lot depends on the region in which you live. 
Probably. Usually, a child should attend school in the district where the child's custodial parent lives. However, if the child is living with someone else in a different school district, the child may be able to attend school in that district. If the child goes to live with the other parent, the other parent can enroll the child in his or her district. My ex-wife had custody of our children, but now the court gave me custody. I live in a different school district.
You are a resident of the school district where you are placed by DHHS. But, if you are placed with someone who is not your parent or legal guardian, then DHHS, the Department of Education, and the school district can decide what school district is in your best interest to attend. They will choose between the school you were going to and the school where you are laced.
If you can prove to the school that the child has been living with you, that you have been providing for the child's needs, and that you do not have the child in your household simply to allow the child to attend school in your district, the school should not require legal proof of custody. 1 You are not the child's parent. 2  The child's parent has not placed the child with youonly so the child can attend school in your district. 3  You are supporting and caring for the child.
http://www.education.com/question/child-problems-school-district-put/. The answer depends on several factors, including the education laws for the state in which you live; the policies of the districts involved; and whether or not you can apply the No Child Left Behind act to your situation. If the two school districts (the current district and the one you'd like your daughter to attend) are in the United States, you can get their contact information through SchoolFinder: http://www.education.com/schoolfinder/. Good luck-I hope this information is helpful to you
The custodial parent usually enrolls the child in school in that parent's district. If the child goes to live with the other parent, the other parent can enroll the child in his or her district. My ex-wife had custody of our children, but now the court gave me custody. I live in a different school district.
Answers (7). dgraab, Parent writes: I would call the district for the school you would like your child to attend. Ask about their transfer policy, to find out if there's a way to transfer from your child's current school into the preferred school. You can find district and school contact information using SchoolFinder (link below). That is what we call a school of choice. Where we all live the address is zoned for a particular school. It does not mean that you have to attend that school. However, if you pick another school, the school board does and will not provide you transportation for your child to and from the school.
Probably. Usually, a child should attend school in the district where the child's custodial parent lives. However, if the child is living with someone else in a different school district, the child may be able to attend school in that district. 1 You are not the child's parent. 2  The child's parent has not placed the child with youonly so the child can attend school in your district. 3  You are supporting and caring for the child.