Install a .RPM in Debian. To install a .rpm file in a Debian based system you'll need the program Alien. Note that Alien can't work 100% of the time, because rpm and apt are very different. RPM Package Manager. The RPM was developed at RedHat for keeping track of the files each program or package installed as well as noting what other packages it depended on or depended on it, some information about the source of the package and a brief synopsis. One should avoid using .rpm package on a Debian system.
SteamOS Beta is an early, first-look public release of our Linux-based operating system. The base system draws from Debian 7, code named Debian Wheezy. Our work builds on top of the solid Debian core and optimizes it for a living room experience. 
About Ubuntu. Ubuntu is an open source project that develops and maintains a cross-platform, open-source operating system based on Debian. It includes Unity, a consistent user interface for the smartphone, the tablet and the PC. Debian can be considered the rock upon which Ubuntu is built. It is a volunteer project that has developed and maintained a GNU/Linux operating system of the same name for well over a decade.
Grml is a bootable live system (Live-CD) based on Debian. Grml includes a collection of GNU/Linux software especially for system administrators. Users don't have to install anything on fixed storage. Grml is especially well suited for administrative tasks like installation, deployment and system rescue.
Linux Mint Debian Edition (LMDE) is a rolling Linux distribution based on Debian Testing. It is available in both 32 and 64-bit as a live DVD with a Cinnamon or MATE desktop. Pinguy OS. An Ubuntu-based distro for people that have never used Linux before or for people that want an out-of-the-box working OS without having to tweak a fresh installation of Ubuntu or other Ubuntu-based distro.
Debian. Debian is a free operating system (OS) for your computer. An operating system is the set of basic programs and utilities that make your computer run. Debian provides more than a pure OS: it comes with over 43000 packages, precompiled software bundled up in a nice format for easy installation on your machine. Read more...
Raspbian is a free operating system based on Debian optimized for the Raspberry Pi hardware. An operating system is the set of basic programs and utilities that make your Raspberry Pi run. The initial build of over 35,000 Raspbian packages, optimized for best performance on the Raspberry Pi, was completed in June of 2012. However, Raspbian is still under active development with an emphasis on improving the stability and performance of as many Debian packages as possible.
Much of why Debian is a strong Linux distribution comes from the core of Debian namely its package management. Everything in Debian – every application, every component – everything – is built into a package, and then that package is installed onto your system (either by the Installer, or by you). Apt, which basically resolves dependency problems and retrieves the requested packages, works with dpkg, another tool, which handles the actual installation and removal of packages (applications). Apt is very powerful, and is primarily used on the command line (console/ terminal).
A distribution based on Debian is Knoppix (Knoppers UNIX) from Klaus Knopper. It is a directly bootable live system from CD-ROM or DVD media. Knoppix is installable also on a fixed disk, e.g. it is suitable for a productive desktop system or also as a Rescue system. Knoppix 4.0 bases on Debian GNU/Linux 3.1 and was released on the event Linux Tag 2005 on 06-22-2005. The Debian GNU /Linux Project team is a special one under the distributors since it does not pursue any commercial targets. Since the foundation by Ian Murdock on 16th August 1993 Debian is cared by voluntary developers and supported by the FSF.