Oyster sauce has a nice balance between sweet and salty with a rich, earthy undertone, thanks to the oyster reduction or extracts. The quality of oyster sauce will greatly affect the flavor. Traditionally, oyster sauce is made by slowly simmering oysters in water until the juices caramelize into a thick, brown, intensely flavorful sauce. Today, many shortcuts have been made to create a similar flavor more quickly and for less money.
Does oyster sauce taste like oysters? There are still some people who are not familiar with what oyster sauce is. However, this rich and dark sauce is now widely used by cooks and chefs all over the globe. Oyster sauce is a thick and dark brown seasoning that is made up of soy sauce, sugar and salt. This type of sauce is usually thickened with the use of cornstarch and is added with oyster extracts to give a boost in its flavor. This means that choosing for the one that suits our taste buds best will not be that hard. In summary, some oyster sauces do taste a little like oysters especially those with oyster extracts. However, having the name “oyster sauce” does not limit its use for seafood dishes only. Its flavor is also very versatile, which means it is also served best with other types of cuisines
Oyster sauce describes a number of sauces made by cooking oysters. The most common in modern use is a viscous dark brown condiment made from sugar, salt and water thickened with cornstarch, flavoured with a little oyster essence or extract. The development of oyster sauce is often credited to Lee Kam Sheung, from Nam Shui Village, Guangdong. Lee made his living running a small eatery that sold cooked oysters.
Definition: A rich sauce made from boiled oysters and seasonings, oyster sauce does not have a fishy taste at all (boiling the oysters takes care of that). This rich sauce with a savory flavor is used in meat and vegetable dishes, and is an important ingredient in Cantonese cooking. 
Oyster sauce is a thick, brown sauce with a sweet, salty, and earthy flavor. Oyster sauce is a popular ingredient in Vietnamese, Thai, and Cantonese cuisine. This thick, flavorful sauce is full of umami, which gives any recipe it's added to extra oomph. Traditionally, oyster sauce is made by slowly simmering oysters in water until the juices caramelize into a thick, brown, intensely flavorful sauce. Today, many shortcuts have been made to create a similar flavor more quickly and for less money.
Oysters do taste a little like oysters; however, its flavor is combined naturally with soy flavor and other condiments that it produces one strong and unique flavor. In fact, oyster sauces are not only used for seafood dishes, but are also used in beef, pork or chicken cuisines. This means that choosing for the one that suits our taste buds best will not be that hard. In summary, some oyster sauces do taste a little like oysters especially those with oyster extracts. However, having the name “oyster sauce” does not limit its use for seafood dishes only. Its flavor is also very versatile, which means it is also served best with other types of
Best Answer: It's made from fermented fish, so you can imagine what it smells like. I bought some for a recipe-I opened the bottle and couldn't use it because of the smell. It smelled so rank, I couldn't imagine eating anything containing it. So, for any recipe that calls for fish sauce-I substitute soy sauce. As a rule when you use it in a recipe, it contributes to the total flavor of the dish but you cannot taste the fish sauce it's self. Thank goodness for that because it is made from fermented fish.