Tietze syndrome is a rare, inflammatory disorder characterized by chest pain and swelling of the cartilage of one or more of the upper ribs (costochondral junction). Onset of pain may be gradual or sudden and may spread to affect the arms and/or shoulders. Important. It is possible that the main title of the report Tietze Syndrome is not the name you expected. Please check the synonyms listing to find the alternate name(s) and disorder subdivision(s) covered by this report.
Tietze syndrome is a benign inflammation of one or more of the costal cartilages. It was first described in 1921 by the German surgeon Alexander Tietze (1864–1927). Though thought to be the same conditions, Tietze syndrome is not the same as costochondritis. Tietze syndrome is differentiated from costochondritis by swelling of the costal cartilages, which does not appear in costochondritis. 
Tietze syndrome is a rare, inflammatory disorder characterized by chest pain and swelling of the cartilage of one or more of the upper ribs (costochondral junction). Onset of pain may be gradual or sudden and may spread to affect the arms and/or shoulders. 
Tietze syndrome is condition that involves inflammation of the chest area or simply the cartilage that is attached to the breastbone. The syndrome is characterized by the presence of swelling. 
A rare disorder characterized by inflammation, swelling, redness and tenderness of the rib cartilage (costochondrial cartilage) in the upper chest. ... more 1  ». Tietze syndrome: Redness, swelling and pain of the cartilage of the rib cage. A rare disorder characterized by inflammation, swelling, redness and tenderness of the rib cartilage (costochondrial cartilage) in the upper chest. ... more ».
General Discussion. Tietze syndrome is a rare, inflammatory disorder characterized by chest pain and swelling of the cartilage of one or more of the upper ribs (costochondral junction). Onset of pain may be gradual or sudden and may spread to affect the arms and/or shoulders. Signs & Symptoms. Tietze syndrome is characterized by mild to severe localized pain and tenderness in one or more of the upper four ribs. The second or third ribs are most often affected. A firm, spindle-shaped swelling occurs in the cartilage of these ribs.
Overview. Tietze syndrome is an inflammatory condition characterized by chest pain and swelling of the cartilage that joins the upper ribs to the breastbone (costochondral junction).
Costochondritis is not associated with swelling, as opposed to Tietze's syndrome, where swelling is characteristic. Tietze's syndrome is an inflammation of the costochondral cartilages of the upper front of the chest that involves swelling of the joint. While both costochondritis and Tietze's syndrome feature localized pain and tenderness in the front of the chest, Tietze's syndrome also causes swelling over the ribs and cartilage near the breastbone (sternum). Redness, tenderness, and warmth can also be present, but a localized swelling is the distinguishing finding.
Tietze syndrome refers to the inflammation of the costal cartilages, leading to pain localized between the ribs and the sternum. Formerly, Tietze’s syndrome was believed to be distinct from an entity called costochondritis, but is now recognized as the severe form of the latter. Ibuprofen may be helpful in relieving discomfort associated with Tietze’s syndrome. Tietze syndrome is severe inflammation of the cartilage between the ribs and the breastbone. Overexertion of the chest wall during exercise can injure the costal cartilages.