Most shallow and semi-deep fishes have enclosed sacs, called gas bladders or swim bladders, for buoyancy control. If you rapidly reel in a fish from 100 or 200 feet deep, the bladder will expand and may even be partially forced out of the mouth. But deep-sea fishes lack an air bladder—it wouldn’t do them any good because, at depth, the air would be squeezed out by water pressure—and would suffer no pressure-related problems.
Which country did yodeling come from? Yodeling is a form of singing in which an extended note is repeated in different pitches, making a high sound, then low, high, low, high, low. Yodeling was developed in the Ce … ntral Alps as a means of communication used by mountaineers, which later turned into Alpine folk music. Confidence votes 994. Yodeling is a form of singing in which an extended note is repeated in different pitches, making a high sound, then low, high, low, high, low. Yodeling was developed in the Central Alps as a means of communication used by mountaineers, which later turned into Alpine folk music. The Central Alps, where yodeling originated, are in Switzerland, therefore, yodelling comes from the country of Switzerland
The History of Yodeling. It has been reported by reliable sources that the history of yodeling in Switzerland had a very unusual beginning. Once upon a time an aged man lived high upon a peak in the Swiss Alps.
No. But note that only a few tribes took enemy scalps as trophies of war; many Native people considered the practice repugnant. English and French colonists encouraged it by offering bounties to Indians, first for Indian scalps and then for the scalps of the colonists’ white enemies. If you rapidly reel in a fish from 100 or 200 feet deep, the bladder will expand and may even be partially forced out of the mouth. But deep-sea fishes lack an air bladder—it wouldn’t do them any good because, at depth, the air would be squeezed out by water pressure—and would suffer no pressure-related problems.
Country music is a genre of American popular music that originated in the Southern United States in the 1920s. It takes its roots from the southeastern genre of American folk music and Western music. 
Not so fast, dirndl-breath. Bart Plantenga, author of Yodel-Ay-Ee-Oooo: The Secret History of Yodeling Around the World, tells AF that this Swiss thing business is hooey: There are tons of yodelers in France and the Netherlands. It's also in punk and contemporary rock. It's coming back like crazy. Jewel is a big yodeler. 
In Central Africa, yodeling was a form of communication announcing the yodeler's location and identity. In the United States, traveling minstrels were yodeling in the 1800s, and in 1920 the Victor recording company listed 17 yodels in their catalogue. One famous yodeling tune known the world-over is the song . The Lion Sleeps Tonight , also known as Wimoweh. It was first recorded by Solomon Linda and the Evening Birds in South African in 1939.
it is the Swiss and sometimes the austrians that yodel. They could if they wanted to. On the contrary, Bavaria is home to some of the best … yodellers in the world. Traditionally. yodelling is a means of communication that developed in the alpine regions of Austria, Switzerland, Germany and even parts of France and Italy. Just listen to Franzl Lang or Thomas Scholl from Munich and then try to believe that Germans don't yodel!! Amongst the Swiss, there are some who have ventured into the complex speed yodelling. An excellent example is Peter Hinnen. Yodelling is also found in country music and in Hawaiian music.
In Persian classical music, singers frequently use tahrir ( tremolo  in English), a yodeling technique that oscillates on neighbor tones. It is similar to the Swiss yodel, and is used as an ornament or trill in phrases which have long syllables, and usually falls at the end of a phrase. One famous yodeling tune known the world-over is the song . The Lion Sleeps Tonight , also known as Wimoweh. It was first recorded by Solomon Linda and the Evening Birds in South African in 1939.