Quite possibly the most forgotten and least popular country in Asia is Laos. Considered one of the least wealthy countries in Asia, Laos is definitely the least visited country compared to its large neighbors, Vietnam, Cambodia, and Thailand.
Laos, officially known as the Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR), is one of the poorest nations in Southeast Asia. A mountainous and landlocked country, Laos shares borders with Vietnam to the east, Cambodia to the south, Thailand to the west, and Myanmar and China to the north.
Land of a Million Elephants. In ancient times, Laos was poetically known as the 'land of a million elephants', but cynical Vietnam War correspondents renamed it the 'land of a million irrelevants'. But four decades after the war, Laos is becoming an increasingly relevant destination for the intrepid traveller.
Laos is one of the poorest and least visited countries in the world. The Lao people are known for their gentle polite nature and for their charming hospitality. The capital Vientiane, is one of Asia's biggest villages, sitting on the banks of the Mekong river.
Laos is a landlocked country in Southeast Asia, sharing its borders with Burma, China, Vietnam, Cambodia, and Thailand. Since the fall of the Soviet Union, the country has literally struggled to find its place in the world economy.
Answer   Laos is in Southeast Asia, surrounded by Thailand, Myanmar, China,  Vietnam, and Cambodia.   Laos or Lao PDR is in South East Asia, It is only landlocked  c … ountry in the ASEAN countries.
Vientiane, Laos. Formally referred to as Lao People's Democratic Republic, or Lao PDR, it is known to many visitors, drawn to its relaxed lifestyle, as Lao -- Please Don't Rush.. Though the capital city is becoming more popular, Vientiane retains a small-town feel and is perfect for those looking to relax.
Formally known as the Kingdom of Laos, and now known as Lao People’s Democratic. Republic, Laos was, in previous centuries, periodically independent and periodically part. of the Khmer (Cambodian), Mongol, Vietnamese, and Thai (Siamese) empires.