Actors wait along Elm Street as the filming for the Cinemax series The Knick took place May 6, 2015 on Elm Street and Oak Street in Yonkers, as they transformed the area with old-time facades, dirt roads and horse and buggies.
The production crew maneuvers a camera for the next shot as filming for the Cinemax series The Knick took place May 6, 2015 on Elm Street and Oak Street in Yonkers, as they transformed the area with old-time facades, dirt roads and horse and buggies. Mark Vergari/The Journal News.
Clive Owen and filmmaker Steven Soderbergh recreated New York as it looked at the turn of the 20th Century for period medical drama The Knick. Set in 1900, the ten-part miniseries tells the story of the medical staff at Brooklyn’s Knickerbocker Hospital, led by Owen’s Dr John Thackery.
This year New York became the number one city in North America for drama pilot filming, taking the top spot from Los Angeles for the first time. The Knick is showing on Cinemax in the US and will launch on Sky Atlantic in the UK in the autumn.
An actor hams it up for the neighbors that were shooting the scene, as filming for the Cinemax series The Knick took place May 6, 2015 on Elm Street and Oak Street in Yonkers, as they transformed the area with old-time facades, dirt roads and horse and buggies.
Actors walk along Oak Street in Yonkers as the filming for the Cinemax series The Knick took place May 6, 2015 on Elm Street and Oak Street in Yonkers, as they transformed the area with old-time facades, dirt roads and horse and buggies.
New York traveled back in time today with 'The Knick.' | Twitter. New York traveled back in time today with 'The Knick.' | Twitter. well now this is in front of my building pic.twitter.com/YTcwmHtkGq— kalkutta (@djkalkutta) November 6, 2013 Filming on Broome and Orchard today.
Monday, May 18 Filming Locations for The Fosters, The Walking Dead, The Knick, AKA Jessica Jones, Suicide Squad, & more! Here’s a look at some of the movies and TV shows filming on location: Monday, May 18, 2015 (more…). Here’s a look at some of the movies and TV shows filming on location: Monday, May 18, 2015. (more…).
Elementary is filming near 250 Joralemon Street in Brooklyn, NY. Carrie Diaries is filming near 15 Washington Avenue in Brooklyn. Los Angeles Filming Locations. The League is filming in Los Angeles from 7am til 10pm at. 1.MOLINO ST., E 4TH ST. – PALMETTO ST.