Leptospirosis is a disease caused by infection with Leptospira bacteria. These bacteria can be found worldwide in soil and water. There are many strains of Leptospira bacteria that can cause disease.
Leptospirosis is spread mainly by contact with water or soil contaminated by the urine of infected animals. Persons can get the disease by swimming or wading in fresh unchlorinated water contaminated with animal urine or by coming into contact with wet soil or plants contaminated with animal urine.
Leptospirosis is caused by a strain of bacteria called leptospira, which is found in certain animals and can spread to humans. Many different kinds of animals can carry the bacteria, but it is most commonly associated with: 1  rats and mice. 2  farm animals, such as pigs, cattle, horses and sheep.
Dogs will typically come into contact with the leptospira bacteria in infected water, soil, or mud, while swimming, passing through, or drinking contaminated water, or from coming into contact with urine from an infected animal. This last method of contact might take place in the wild.
Leptospirosis is spread to humans by animals. You can catch it by touching soil or water contaminated with the urine of wild animals infected with the leptospira bacteria. Animals known to be carriers of the leptospira bacteria include cattle, pigs, dogs and rodents, particularly rats.
Leptospirosis. Leptospirosis is a disease caused by infection with Leptospira bacteria. These bacteria can be found worldwide in soil and water. There are many strains of Leptospira bacteria that can cause disease. Leptospirosis is a zoonotic disease, which means it can be spread from animals to people.
The bacteria that cause leptospirosis are spread through the urine of infected animals, which can get into water or soil and can survive there for weeks to months.
Story at-a-glance 1  +. Canine leptospirosis, or “lepto,” is an infection caused by at least four species (serovars) of Leptospira bacteria. 2  However, there are over 20 different serovars that are potentially infectious to dogs. 3  Leptospirosis isn’t a new disease – in fact, it’s ancient.
Leptospirosis is an infectious disease caused by bacteria belonging to the genus Leptospira. Leptospirosis occurs worldwide, but is most prevalent in tropical and subtropical regions. Outbreaks can occur following excessive rainfall or flooding.