If so you can simply log in online or call us to cash in your Premium Bonds. You’ll need your NS&I number and password and the amount you want to cash in. We‘ll then cash in your oldest Bonds first and pay the money into your nominated bank account. If you are already registered for our online and phone service, and you use this form to cash in Bonds, we will automatically pay the money to the nominated bank account on our records. You can’t use this form to update your nominated bank account – you’ll need to either log in or call us to do this.
We will simply cash in your oldestBonds first and pay the money into your nominated bank account on our records. How to use this form You can cash in some or all of your Bonds-tick the relevant box in section 3 and let us know the amount if you’re notcashing in all your Bonds. For your security, and to satisfy Money Laundering Regulations,we may ask for evidence of identity from anyone applying to cash in Premium Bonds. Bonds held in the name of a child under 16 Only the parent or guardian responsible for the child’s Bonds can cash them in (we’ll make payment to the parent orguardian).
You don't risk the money you put in, only what interest you'll get. Premium Bonds are operated by NS&I which, rather than being a bank, is backed by the Treasury. This means you get 100% safety for your cash. However, NS&I can't play this card as strongly as it used to. Put 1,000 in Premium Bonds over a year and while the interest rate predicts a 13.50 win, the majority of people (63%) still win nothing. 50,000 for a year. Even if you put this large amount in Premium Bonds, your chance of winning the million in a year is still 1 in 45,021.
1 Once you have held your bonds for a full month, they are included in a monthly draw and you stand a chance of winning a cash prize. 2  You can buy them for yourself or on behalf of your child, grandchild or great-grandchild. 3  You have to be aged at least 16 to purchase Premium Bonds for yourself. 1 So if you save £100, you’ll get 100 bond numbers (each with a chance to win a prize). 2  Once you have held your bonds for a full month, they are included in a monthly draw and you stand a chance of winning a cash prize. 3
•• keep a note of the date you send your form and the Bonds to be cashed in (if relevant)•• send your Bond(s) (if you have them) with this completed form to Premium Bonds,•NS&I, Glasgow, G58 1SB. For your security, and to satisfy Money Laundering Regulations,we may ask for evidence of identity from anyone applying to cash in Premium Bonds. Bonds held in the name of a child under 16 Only the parent or guardian responsible for the child’s Bonds can cash them in (we’ll make payment to the parent orguardian).
If you tick ‘No’, we will cash in your oldest Bonds first If you tick ‘Yes’, enter the first Premium Bond number from numbereach range. Include the prefix, which can be from 1 to 5 numbers or letters, and the six numbers after the prefix. If you run out of space, continue on a separate piece of paper. If you are already registered for our online and phone service, and you use this form to cash in Bonds, we will automatically pay the money to the nominated bank account on our records. You can’t use this form to update your nominated bank account – you’ll need to either log in or call us to do this.
Privacy promise: We will never share your data or spam you. Premium Bonds from National Savings and Investments (NS&I) give you the chance to win tax-free cash prizes. The bonds don’t pay interest, but you can win between £25 and £1 million in monthly prize draws. 1 So if you save £100, you’ll get 100 bond numbers (each with a chance to win a prize). 2  Once you have held your bonds for a full month, they are included in a monthly draw and you stand a chance of winning a cash prize. 3  You can buy them for yourself or on behalf of your child, grandchild or great-grandchild.
Premium Bonds may be for you if you: 1  Want the chance to win tax-free cash prizes in a monthly draw. 2  If you are a parent, guardian, grandparent or great grandparent wanting to buy for a child under 16 years old. 1 So if you save £100, you’ll get 100 bond numbers (each with a chance to win a prize). 2  Once you have held your bonds for a full month, they are included in a monthly draw and you stand a chance of winning a cash prize. 3  You can buy them for yourself or on behalf of your child, grandchild or great-grandchild.
Premium Bonds are simply a savings account you can put money into (and take it out when you want), where the interest paid is decided by a monthly prize draw. You can win between 25 and 1 million, tax-free-or, most likely, nothing. The minimum holding is 100 (or 50 for monthly standing orders) and the maximum is 50,000. Put 1,000 in Premium Bonds over a year and while the interest rate predicts a 13.50 win, the majority of people (63%) still win nothing. 50,000 for a year. Even if you put this large amount in Premium Bonds, your chance of winning the million in a year is still 1 in 45,021.
Premium Bonds are not transferable by name. You can however, use the money to repay your own bonds or use the money to reinvent into another NS&I product providing that product is on sale at that time. 