After approximately 1 to 2 days, depending on the virus, stomach flu symptoms can appear. This period between the stomach flu transmission and the start of symptoms is the stomach flu incubation period.. In some cases, the stomach flu incubation period can be as short as 4 hours.
The incubation period of the stomach flu is the time from when you swallowed the viruses to when you start to feel sick. There are a variety of viruses that cause the stomach … flu (viral gastroenteritis). The incubation period for most of these viruses is 24-48 hours. This period between the stomach flu transmission and the start of symptoms is the stomach flu incubation period.. In some cases, the stomach flu incubation period can be as short as 4 hours.
When a person becomes infected with stomach flu, the virus begins to multiply within the small intestine. After approximately 1 to 2 days, depending on the virus, stomach flu symptoms can appear. This period between the stomach flu transmission and the start of symptoms is the stomach flu incubation period.. In some cases, the stomach flu incubation period can be as short as 4 hours.
The incubation period of the stomach flu is the time from when you swallowed the viruses to when you start to feel sick. There are a variety of viruses that cause the stomach … flu (viral gastroenteritis). The incubation period for most of these viruses is 24-48 hours. This period between the stomach flu transmission and the start of symptoms is the stomach flu incubation period.. In some cases, the stomach flu incubation period can be as short as 4 hours.
You can be contagious from a few days up to two weeks or more, depending on which virus is causing your stomach flu (gastroenteritis). A number of viruses can cause gastroenteritis, including noroviruses and rotaviruses. 1 Some people may be contagious for up to two weeks after recovery. 2  Rotavirus. 3  Symptoms of rotavirus — the leading cause of viral gastroenteritis in infants and young children — usually appear one to three days after exposure.
In people with stomach flu, the incubation period may range from 4 hours to 1 to 2 days, depending on the type of virus that is causing the infection. This period between the stomach flu transmission and the start of symptoms is the stomach flu incubation period.. In some cases, the stomach flu incubation period can be as short as 4 hours.
Norovirus. Norovirus is the most common cause of stomach flu. Most people are contagious from the moment that they become ill. Much of the symptoms start appearing within a day or three days of getting exposed; some people are known to be contagious up about two weeks after recovering from the illness. Additional Notes on Incubation Period. Despite the length of the incubation period in rotavirus and norovirus, there is an average period of time that people will incubate the illness. Most people will harbor the stomach flu virus for as little as 4 hours to as long as 2 days.
After approximately 1 to 2 days, depending on the virus, stomach flu symptoms can appear. This period between the stomach flu transmission and the start of symptoms is the stomach flu incubation period.. In some cases, the stomach flu incubation period can be as short as 4 hours.
1 Symptoms usually appear within one to two days of exposure. 2  Although you typically feel better after a day or two, you're contagious for up to three days after you've recovered. 3  Some people may be contagious for up to two weeks after recovery. 4  Rotavirus. 1 Some people may be contagious for up to two weeks after recovery. 2  Rotavirus. 3  Symptoms of rotavirus — the leading cause of viral gastroenteritis in infants and young children — usually appear one to three days after exposure.
What is the incubation period of the stomach flu (norovirus and others)? Answer: The incubation period of the stomach flu is usually about 48 hours but it can vary. It generally takes about 48 hours from the time you swallow the virus (norovirus or others) to the time when you start to feel sick1. However, it can easily be less time or more time. Answer: The incubation period of the stomach flu is usually about 48 hours but it can vary. My sister has 5 children. They caught the stomach flu from relative they saw on Christmas day (Friday, December 25, 2009). My sister's first child got sick on Sunday night, 2 others on Monday night, and a 4th on Tuesday.