A bacterial disease was reported from gilthead sea bream (Sparus aurata) within a hatchery environment in Malta. Symptoms included complete erosion of tail, infection in the eye, mucous secretion and frequent mortality. 1994). Presumptive tests included Gram staining, oxidase test, sensitivity to Vibrio-static agents O/129, utilization of different amino acids, growth at 0%, 3% and 6% NaCl, indole production, gelatinase production, Voges-Proskauer (VP test) and utilization of citrate, l-Arabinose and d-Glucosaminic acid.
Typically found in salt water, Vibrio species are facultative anaerobes that test positive for oxidase and do not form spores. All members of the genus are motile and have polar flagella with sheaths. Several species of Vibrio are pathogens. Most disease-causing strains are associated with gastroenteritis, but can also infect open wounds and cause septicemia. They can be carried by numerous marine animals, such as crabs or prawns, and have been known to cause fatal infections in humans during exposure.
Vibrio harveyi is a Gram-negative, bioluminescent, marine bacterium in the genus Vibrio. V. harveyi is rod-shaped, motile (via polar flagella), facultatively anaerobic, halophilic, and competent for both fermentative and respiratory metabolism. It does not grow below 4°C or above 35°C. V. harveyi can be found free-swimming in tropical marine waters, commensally in the gut microflora of marine animals, and as both a primary and opportunistic pathogen of marine animals, including Gorgonian corals, oysters, prawns, lobsters, the common snook, barramundi, turbot, milkfish, and seahorses.
Subsequently when 100 isolates were tested for biochemical properties all were Gram negative, oxidase positive, negative for Vibrio-static agent O/129 (10 μg), no growth in 0% NaCl concentration and all strains grew well in medium supplemented with 3–6% of NaCl. 1994). Presumptive tests included Gram staining, oxidase test, sensitivity to Vibrio-static agents O/129, utilization of different amino acids, growth at 0%, 3% and 6% NaCl, indole production, gelatinase production, Voges-Proskauer (VP test) and utilization of citrate, l-Arabinose and d-Glucosaminic acid.
A string test and nitrosoindole test can also be performed to help identify Vibrio Cholerae. A slide Agglutination test can help to identify between species of Vibrio Cholerae. Agglutination with antiserum H antigen will confirm that is a Vibrio specimen. Additional agglutination with 01 antiserum can be used to distinguish between Vibrio Cholerae 01 and NAG Vibrios. Serotyping by slide agglutination is performed to identify Ogawa, Inaba, or Hikojima serotypes (2). Infection is contracted through the ingestion of water or food that has been contaminated with the Vibrio Cholerae bacteria through the feces of an infected person or animal. Reservoirs: Infected adults and children who live in areas where there is inadequate water treatment, sanitation, and hygiene.
Vibrio cholerae causes cholera in humans, Vibrio parahaemolyticus and Vibrio vulnificus are the leading cause of seafood-associated gastroenteritis. Vibrios are motile, curved or comma-shaped bacilli and have a single polar flagella with sheet proteins. They are often found in open water, freshwater and saltwater. 
Laboratory Identification of Vibrio cholerae 64 | Page Laboratory Methods for the Diagnosis of Vibrio cholerae Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Freshly prepared plates may be used the same day or store in a refrigerator (2˚ to 8˚C) for up to 2 weeks. Laboratory Identification of Vibrio cholerae 57 | Page Laboratory Methods for the Diagnosis of Vibrio cholerae Centers for Disease Control and Prevention plate is incubated overnight and read the next day.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Vibrio is a genus of Gram-negative bacteria, possessing a curved-rod shape (comma shape), several species of which can cause foodborne infection, usually associated with eating undercooked seafood. Several species of Vibrio are pathogens. Most disease-causing strains are associated with gastroenteritis, but can also infect open wounds and cause septicemia. They can be carried by numerous marine animals, such as crabs or prawns, and have been known to cause fatal infections in humans during exposure.