Total Carbohydrates. The amount of total carbohydrates includes all of the sugar, starch and fiber found in a potato. The total carbohydrates in a medium-sized potato range from 27 grams in red and white potatoes to 34 grams in sweet potatoes and 36.5 grams in russet potatoes. Adults should consume 130 grams of total carbohydrates daily, so eating one potato supplies 21 to 28 percent of your entire day’s carbohydrates. One medium potato has 2 grams of sugar and 23 to 30 grams of starch. Sweet potatoes have more sugar -- 7 grams -- but about the same amount of starch. When they're digested, both carbohydrates are broken down into the simple sugar glucose.
Carbs in Baked Potatoes. The favorite choice for the term Baked Potatoes is 1 medium Baked Potato (Peel Eaten) which has about 37 grams of carbohydrate. The total carbohyrate, sugar, fiber and estimated net carbs (non-fiber carbs) for a variety of types and serving sizes of Baked Potatoes is shown below. View other nutritional values (such as Calories or Fats) using the filter below: Calories | Total Carbs | Total Fats | Protein | Sodium | Cholesterol | Vitamins.
Nutrient Breakdown. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture Nutrient Data Laboratory, one medium-sized—about 2.25 to 3.25 inches in diameter--baked red potato with the skin contains about 154 calories, 4 grams of protein, almost no fat and 34 grams of carbohydrates. A review published in a 2005 edition of the journal “Nutrition,” reports that fiber helps prevent obesity, and is associated with decreased body weight and body fat. According to the USDA Nutrient Data Laboratory, one medium baked red potato with the skin provides about 3 grams of dietary fiber.
Health risks. Potatoes are fat free, but they are also starchy carbohydrates with little protein. According to Harvard, the carbs in potatoes are the kind that the body digests rapidly and have a high glycemic load. That is, they cause blood sugar and insulin to surge and then dip. 
One medium potato with the skin provides 2 grams of fiber, which is 8 percent of the daily recommendation. Dietary fiber, a complex carbohydrate, is the part of the plant that cannot be fully digested and absorbed in the bloodstream. 
Carbohydrates in Potatoes. A 100 g serving of baked sweet potato, or approximately 1/2 cup, contains 21 g of carbohydrates. Of those, 3 g are fiber and 6 g are sugar – the rest of the carbohydrates come from starches. A 100 g serving of baked white potato also contains 21 g of carbohydrates, with 2 g of fiber and 1 g of sugar. Although not all starches are broken down at the same rate, the types found in potatoes break down and hit the bloodstream quickly
Carbs in Potatoes. The favorite choice for the term Potatoes is 1 medium White Potato (Flesh and Skin) which has about 33 grams of carbohydrate. The total carbohyrate, sugar, fiber and estimated net carbs (non-fiber carbs) for a variety of types and serving sizes of Potatoes is shown below. View other nutritional values (such as Calories or Fats) using the filter below: Calories | Total Carbs | Total Fats | Protein | Sodium | Cholesterol | Vitamins.
Turnips (per 3.5 ounces: 28 calories, 6 grams carbohydrates, 2 grams fiber, 4 grams sugar). Turnips have a texture similar to potatoes, and can be sliced to make oven-baked 'fries' (my favorite is truffle parmesan turnip fries, see recipe below), diced for hash browns, or roasted and pureed. In a food processor, add the strained celery root, butter, sour cream, salt, and pepper. Blend until smooth using a little of the reserved cooking liquid if necessary. Per serving: 130 calories, 3 grams fat, 1.8 grams saturated fat, 240 mg sodium, 12 grams carbohydrates, 2 grams fiber, 8 grams sugar, 4 grams protein. *****. This rosti, which is similar to a potato latke, is from Kim Kringlie, chef and co-owner of The Dakota in Covington