You don’t have to give up colors if you stain a fence instead of painting it. You just need to get a solid stain. You aren’t limited to brown. There are stains in vibrant colors such as red, blue, green, yellow, indigo, purple, peach, pink, and grey. Either one will extend the lifespan of your fence by giving it some protection against rot, insects, wear, and tear. However, of the two we always recommend that you stain a fence rather than painting it. Wood absorbs stain much deeper than it does paint.
I painted part of my 1 yr old unfinished cedar fence. Two days later you can see clearly where the oils from the wood have come through the paint. Even in a section where I did 2 coats. 
November 29, 2012 12:42 pm | A1 Fence | Fence Maintenance Tips. Painting or staining a wood fence can help your fence last longer and look better. Either one will extend the lifespan of your fence by giving it some protection against rot, insects, wear, and tear. However, of the two we always recommend that you stain a fence rather than painting it. Wood absorbs stain much deeper than it does paint.
I've spent 40+ years selling, applying & working with paint etc. The answer will depend on the type of fence you have erected and your personal taste. The most common reason for staining a fence is two-fold, esthetics (the look of the thing) and preservation (stain helps to extend the life of some types of wood). For un-treated wood (except cedar) you can and in most areas should stain your fence immediately you finish putting it up. There are stains made to go over unweathered wood, and you can paint the fence with 100% acrylic paint or solid stain before it's weathered, but you may see tannin or chemical staining over time and it will take longer for the leeching to complete.
You have to let a cedar fence “dry” before touching it with any kind of paint. If your fence is mostly in the shade, or there are long periods of clouds and rain, give it more than five weeks. Before you begin you should make sure you’re using a paint that can stand up to our Wisconsin weather. Visit your local paint shop since there are actually regional exterior paint brands that are created for different environments. You’ll also want to get a good latex primer if you’re working with a cedar fence like the ones we install. You’ll also generally need two kinds of brushes.
Cedar, in particular, does not work well with paint. Paint doesn’t allow the cedar to breathe, which means you’ll actually reduce the lifespan of the fence. This would be a shame, since lifespan is one of the more attractive features of using northern white cedar (the only wood we use) to build a fence. Either one will extend the lifespan of your fence by giving it some protection against rot, insects, wear, and tear. However, of the two we always recommend that you stain a fence rather than painting it. Wood absorbs stain much deeper than it does paint.
You’ll have to clean, scrape and sand your fence with medium-grit or fine-grit sandpaper before you can paint. You may want to use a pressure washer to clean the fence and blast off loose paint. You can also use a garden hose with a power nozzle, a scrub brush and a solution of detergent and water. Step 1: Prepare the Ground. Before you paint or stain a fence, you will want to get rid of any leaves, grass or weeds along the base of the fence by mowing, raking, weeding by hand or spraying a weed killer. Place a drop cloth below or next to the fence to catch debris, dripping paint or overspray.
Step 3--Prime the Fence. With a cedar fence, you are going to have to prime the surface before you can start painting. Cedar has natural oils in it that come out periodically. If you do not use a primer and seal these oils into the wood, they are going to come out through the paint and your job will not look good. Now that you have primed the fence with the correct primer, you can start painting. Use your paintbrush or a paint roller and apply the paint all over the fence. You will most likely want to do two coats just to make sure everything looks good. At that point, you can let it dry.
Step 2--Clean the Fence. Before you can actually start painting, you should most likely clean your fence. Unless it is a brand-new fence, it is going to have some residue and unsightly build up on it. In many cases, you will want to use a pressure washer for this job. Now that you have primed the fence with the correct primer, you can start painting. Use your paintbrush or a paint roller and apply the paint all over the fence. You will most likely want to do two coats just to make sure everything looks good. At that point, you can let it dry.
Only stain can truly penetrate and fully protect the wood. If you are absolutely certain you want to paint your fence, we’ve provided some tips here to ensure the best outcome. If you are painting a newly installed cedar fence, be aware that you absolutely cannot paint it for at least five weeks with sun exposure. Visit your local paint shop since there are actually regional exterior paint brands that are created for different environments. You’ll also want to get a good latex primer if you’re working with a cedar fence like the ones we install. You’ll also generally need two kinds of brushes.