Government Accountability Office published audit standards. These standards are a framework for conducting high quality audits with competence, integrity, objectivity, and independence. GAGAS/Yellow Book – Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards. 
Definition. The set of accounting standards for performance audits and financial audits of government agencies, produced by the Government Accountability Office. The general standards include independence, due care, continuing professional education, supervision, and quality control. These standards are used by auditors evaluating government offices, and for some audits of the private sector as well.
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and Governmental Auditing Standards differ and cover different aspects of the financial reporting process. GAAP defines how businesses, both public and private, prepare their financial statements. Governmental Auditing Standards are a series of rules that define how an independent agent is supposed to review a government agency's financial statements and internal processes. 
Illustrative Yellow Book Audit Reports When performing an audit under Government Auditing Standards, it is important to get the auditor reporting correct. Access the latest illustrative Yellow Book audit reports on the GAQC Web site. This practice aid is an important tool for auditors that perform nonaudit services and whose audits are performed under the 2011 revision to Government Auditing Standards.
Generally Accepted Auditing Standards, or GAAS are sets of standards against which the quality of audits are performed and may be judged. Several organizations have developed such sets of principles, which vary by territory. In the United States, the standards are promulgated by the Auditing Standards Board, a division of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). AU Section 150 states that there are 10 standards: 3 general standards, 3 fieldwork standards, and 4 reporting standards.
These standards, first published in 1972, provide the foundation for government auditors to lead by example in the areas of independence, transparency, accountability, and quality through the audit process. Yellow Book revisions undergo an extensive, deliberative process, including public comments and input from the Yellow Book Advisory Council. GAO considers all Yellow Book comments and input from the Yellow Book Advisory Council in finalizing revisions to the standards.
The Yellow Book is for use by auditors of government entities, entities that receive government awards, and other audit organizations performing Yellow Book audits. View the Current Yellow Book. 1  View the Current Yellow Book. 2  Listen to Our Yellow Book Podcast. Yellow Book revisions undergo an extensive, deliberative process, including public comments and input from the Yellow Book Advisory Council. GAO considers all Yellow Book comments and input from the Yellow Book Advisory Council in finalizing revisions to the standards.
This publication supersedes GAO-07-731G, Government Auditing Standards: July 2007 Revision. This is the Government Auditing Standards 2011 version. This document outlines standards that contain requirements for auditor reporting on internal control. 
The Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards (GAGAS), commonly referred to as the  Yellow Book , are produced in the United States by the Government Accountability Office (GAO). The standards apply to both financial and performance audits of government agencies. Five general standards are included: The Yellow Book standards are used by auditors who examine the federal government, including the Government Accountability Office, various offices of Inspectors General, and others. Many local government performance auditors also use the yellow book standards. In addition, CPA firms who perform local government financial audits that include an A-133 single audit must follow yellow book standards.