Walter Elias Disney was born on December 5, 1901, in Chicago, Illinois. He was the fourth son of Elias and Flora Disney. Later, a daughter, Ruth, was born. In 1906, the family moved to a small farm outside Marceline, Missouri. Young Walt and his brother Roy were expected to help out with farm chores. While on the farm, Walt began drawing. In 1910, Elias Disney sold the farm and moved to Kansas City where he bought a newspaper delivery business. Walt and Roy were given jobs to deliver the Kansas City Star and other papers.
There were five children in the Disney family when Walt was growing up. Besides himself, there was his older brothers Raymond, Herbert, and Roy (who would later be his busines … s partner) and his little sister Ruth. Walt and his brother Roy moved to California in 1923 and founded the Disney Brothers Cartoon Studio in Burbank. Ub Iwerks, an animator who had worked with Walt in Kansas City, soon followed. Together they created the Alice Comedies and the popular Oswald the Lucky Rabbit series.
he actually had both and then some. Not only did he have a brother he created Disney with named Roy (often referred to as Roy O. to distinguish him from his son, Roy E.) but he also had two other brothers, Herb and Ray, and a sister named Ruth. Walt was the youngest of the boys and a little older than Ruth. 
Walt was the fourth of 5 children: On New Year's Day, 1888, Elias Disney and Flora Call were married. Over the next five years they added three sons to their family: Herbert … in 1888, Raymond in 1890, and Roy in 1893. Walt and his brother Roy moved to California in 1923 and founded the Disney Brothers Cartoon Studio in Burbank. Ub Iwerks, an animator who had worked with Walt in Kansas City, soon followed. Together they created the Alice Comedies and the popular Oswald the Lucky Rabbit series.
(January 2014). Roy Oliver Disney (June 24, 1893 – December 20, 1971) was an American businessman, becoming the partner and co-founder, along with his younger brother Walt Disney, of Walt Disney Productions, now known as The Walt Disney Company. Their son, Roy Edward Disney, was born on January 10, 1930. Throughout his life, Roy rejected the publicity and fame that came with being Walt's brother. He was extremely camera shy and a passive individual, resulting in few public photos being in existence.
On December 5, 1901, a fourth child, Walter Elias Disney, was born, named after the family's pastor. (The pastor, in turn, named his son Elias, after Walt's father.) Two years later a little girl, Ruth, arrived and the Disney family was complete. There were five children in the Disney family when Walt was growing up. Besides himself, there was his older brothers Raymond, Herbert, and Roy (who would later be his busines … s partner) and his little sister Ruth. At this time all of them are deceased. 4 people found this useful.
After Walt Disney's death in 1966, Roy postponed his retirement to oversee construction of what was then known as Disney World. He later renamed it Walt Disney World as a tribute to his brother. Roy became the president of Walt Disney Productions on December 15, 1966, and remained so until 1968. Their son, Roy Edward Disney, was born on January 10, 1930. Throughout his life, Roy rejected the publicity and fame that came with being Walt's brother. He was extremely camera shy and a passive individual, resulting in few public photos being in existence.
Walt was the fourth of 5 children: On New Year's Day, 1888, Elias Disney and Flora Call were married. Over the next five years they added three sons to their family: Herbert in 1888, Raymond in 1890, and Roy in 1893. There were five children in the Disney family when Walt was growing up. Besides himself, there was his older brothers Raymond, Herbert, and Roy (who would later be his busines … s partner) and his little sister Ruth. At this time all of them are deceased. 4 people found this useful.
Walter Elias Disney was born on December 5, 1901 in Chicago, Illinois. Walt was born to Elias and Flora Disney. He was one of five children, four boys and a girl. The Disney family moved to a farm in Marceline, Missouri in 1906. He became interested in drawing at an early age. The Disney family moved again to Kansas City after Elias became ill and no longer could take care of the farm. Walt and Roy, his older brother, worked for their father s newspaper route. I was about 9 or 10 when I started that.