So in theory, a person is contagious for about two weeks. (Click Cold Symptoms to read about the symptoms of the common cold or Cold and Flu Symptoms to learn the difference between a cold and the flu.). Let's assume you're the one with the cold. Based on previous studies, their best guess is that a person becomes contagious about two to three days before developing the usual symptoms of a cold. Second, this contagious period can last until the person no longer shows any symptoms.
However, the viruses that cause colds (for example, rhinoviruses) are not the same as those that cause the flu (influenza viruses). Although the typical incubation period for influenza is about one to four days, some adults can be contagious from about one day before onset of symptoms for up to two weeks. Other people who develop complications, such as pneumonia, may extend the contagious period for a week or two. For colds, most individuals become contagious about a day before cold symptoms develop and remain contagious for about five to seven days. 
When are you contagious? If you are infected with the flu, you are most likely to pass it to someone else from 1 day before symptoms start and up to 7 days after symptoms develop. Children may be infectious for longer than 7 days after symptoms start. Symptoms usually develop 1 to 4 days after you are infected. Because symptoms may not develop for a couple of days, you may pass the flu to someone before you know you have it.
Most experts agree that adults with a cold or the flu start being contagious about a day before they start experiencing symptoms. For the flu, the contagious period then lasts five to seven days into the illness. For children, the contagious period for the flu can last up to two weeks after they start feeling sick, even if they start feeling better before that. The contagious period for a cold lasts about three to four days into the illness. As a general rule, people with a cold are most contagious about three days after their initial exposure to the virus. For more information on colds, influenza and related topics, check out the links on the next page. Print. 
The Flu Is Contagious. Most healthy adults may be able to infect other people beginning 1 day before symptoms develop and up to 5 to 7 days after becoming sick. Children may pass the virus for longer than 7 days. Symptoms start 1 to 4 days after the virus enters the body. That means that you may be able to pass on the flu to someone else before you know you are sick, as well as while you are sick. Some people can be infected with the flu virus but have no symptoms.
THE BOTTOM LINE -- Most people who catch a cold become contagious about a day before signs appear and can continue spreading the illness for up to three days after symptoms subside. 
A. THe CDC says 'Most healthy adults may be able to infect others beginning 1 day before symptoms develop and up to 5 to 7 days after becoming sick. Children may pass the virus for longer than 7 days.'. Remember that some people who get the flu may not have symptoms and can spread the virus too. A. You may be able to pass on the flu to someone else before you know you are sick, as well as while you are sick. 
The flu is contagious a day before and five days to a week after its onset. Young children, people over 65, those with compromised immune systems, and people with a terminal illness are at risk of death from the flu. Pregnant women are also at greater risk. The flu can also cause premature birth. 
Common cold. The common cold is infectious about one to two days before your symptoms appear. Symptoms are usually worse during the first two to three days. This is when you're most infectious, although you may still be infectious until your symptoms have gone. In adults and older children, cold symptoms usually last about a week, although a cough may last up to three weeks. Colds tend to last longer in children up to the age of five, typically around 10-14 days. Flu is usually infectious a day before symptoms start and remains infectious for about five to six days.
First, scientists involved with common cold research do not know exactly how long a person with a cold is contagious. Based on previous studies, their best guess is that a person becomes contagious about two to three days before developing the usual symptoms of a cold. Second, this contagious period can last until the person no longer shows any symptoms.