From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) are injuries or pain in the body's joints, ligaments, muscles, nerves, tendons, and structures that support limbs, neck and back. MSDs are degenerative diseases and inflammatory conditions that cause pain and impair normal activities. 
Like arthritis, however, fibromyalgia can cause significant pain and fatigue, and it can interfere with a person’s ability to carry on daily activities. Also like arthritis, fibromyalgia is considered a rheumatic condition, a medical condition that impairs the joints and/or soft tissues and causes chronic pain. A person may have two or more coexisting chronic pain conditions. Such conditions can include chronic fatigue syndrome, endometriosis, fibromyalgia, inflammatory bowel disease, interstitial cystitis, temporomandibular joint dysfunction, and vulvodynia.
People with musculoskeletal pain sometimes complain that their entire body aches. Their muscles may feel as if they have been pulled or overworked. Sometimes the muscles twitch or burn. Symptoms vary from person to person, but the common ones are: 1  Pain. 2  Fatigue. Muscle tissue can be damaged by the wear and tear of daily activities. Trauma to an area-from jerking movements, car accidents, falls, fractures, sprains, dislocations or direct blows to the muscle-can also cause musculoskeletal pain.
Arthritis that affects your “shock absorbers” is the cause of pain and disability in knee and hip joints that can lead to surgery. Click here. Learn the symptoms, causes, and treatments of piriformis syndrome. The causes of back pain can be complex -- accidents, muscle strains, sports injuries. Stiffness, pain, lower back pain, and pain radiating down the leg are symptoms of back pain. Use your muscles incorrectly, too much, too little -- and you’ve got muscle pain. Learn the subtle differences of muscle injuries and pain. Overuse injuries -- muscle sprains, strains, and pains -- result from all sorts of assaults, small to severe.
Their muscles may feel like they have been pulled or overworked. Sometimes the muscles twitch or burn. Symptoms vary from person to person, but the common symptoms are: 1  Pain. 2  Fatigue. 3  Sleep disturbances. 4  Your doctor will conduct a thorough physical examination and medical history. 5  In addition, your doctor may perform diagnostic studies to confirm the diagnosis
A work-related musculoskeletal disorder is an injury of the muscles, tendons, ligaments, nerves, joints, cartilage, bones, or blood vessels in the arms, legs, head, neck, or back that is caused or aggravated by work tasks such as lifting, pushing, and pulling. 
The causes of musculoskeletal pain are varied. Muscle tissue can be damaged with the wear and tear of daily activities. Trauma to an area (jerking movements, auto accidents, falls, fractures, sprains, dislocations, and direct blows to the muscle) also can cause musculoskeletal pain. Use your muscles incorrectly, too much, too little -- and you’ve got muscle pain. Learn the subtle differences of muscle injuries and pain. Overuse injuries -- muscle sprains, strains, and pains -- result from all sorts of assaults, small to severe.
The causes of musculoskeletal pain are varied. Muscle tissue can be damaged with the wear and tear of daily activities. Trauma to an area (jerking movements, auto accidents, falls, fractures, sprains, dislocations, and direct blows to the muscle) also can cause musculoskeletal pain. Symptoms vary from person to person, but the common symptoms are: 1  Pain. 2  Fatigue. 3  Sleep disturbances. 4  Your doctor will conduct a thorough physical examination and medical history.
Anyone can experience musculoskeletal pain. It is most often caused by an injury to the bones, joints, muscles, tendons, ligaments, or nerves. This can be caused by jerking movements, car accidents, falls, fractures, sprains, dislocations, and direct blows to the muscle. Common symptoms include: 1  Localized or widespread pain that can worsen with movement. 2  Aching or stiffness of the entire body. 3  The feeling that your muscles have been pulled or overworked. 4  Fatigue. 5  Sleep disturbances. 6  Twitching muscles. 7  The sensation of burning in your muscles.
Symptoms of musculoskeletal pain depend on whether the pain is caused by an injury or overuse and whether it is chronic or acute. The symptoms can also differ from person to person. Common symptoms include: 1  Localized or widespread pain that can worsen with movement. 2  Aching or stiffness of the entire body. 3  The feeling that your muscles have been pulled or overworked. 4  Fatigue. 5  Sleep disturbances. 6  Twitching muscles. 7  The sensation of burning in your muscles.