A second method is the income approach. In the income approach, nominal GDP is calculated by adding up all the income payments and costs related to production of goods and services. This number is called the gross domestic income, which is the same as gross domestic product.
Definition of Nominal GDP. The gross domestic product (GDP) is the aggregate of all value of all the goods and services produced within a country during a specific period of time.
The main difference between nominal and real values is that real values are adjusted for inflation, while nominal values are not. As a result, nominal GDP will often appear higher than real GDP.
DEFINITION of 'Nominal GDP'. A gross domestic product (GDP) figure that has not been adjusted for inflation. Also known as current dollar GDP or chained dollar GDP..
It can be misleading when inflation is not accounted for in the GDP figure because the GDP will appear higher than it actually is. The same concept that applies to return on investment (ROI) applies here. If you have a 10% ROI and inflation for the year has been 3%, your real rate of return would be 7%.
The nominal GDP is the value of a country's GDP that is calculated at the current price level. Since the nominal GDP isn't adjusted for inflation, it doesn't necessarily accurately reflect the economic strength of an economy over time because the increase may be due to inflated prices rather than increased output.
Example: Suppose we wish to calculate the real GDP for the year 2001 in terms of 1996 dollars. The value for (note that these values are for illustration purposes only) 1996 price deflator is 100 and the 2001 price deflator is 115. The 2001 GDP in nominal terms is $10 trillion dollars.
Definition. Nominal GDP is the market value (money-value) of all final goods and services produced in a geographical region, usually a country. Real GDP is a macroeconomic measure of the value of output economy, adjusted for price changes. The adjustment transforms the nominal GDP into an index for quantity of total output.
Nominal GDP = ∑ ptqt. where p refers to price, q is quantity, and t indicates the year in question (usually the current year). However, it can be misleading to do an apples-to-apples comparison of a GDP of $1 trillion in 2008 with a GDP of $200 billion in 1990. This is because of inflation.