About. Nordic Semiconductor ASA is a Norway-based company engaged in the development and sell of integrated circuits and related solutions for short-range wireless communication. The Company specializes in ultra-low power (ULP) components, based on 2.4 Gigahertz (GHz) and Bluetooth Smart technology. kr31.90. Nordic Semiconductor ASA is a Norway-based company engaged in the development and sell of integrated circuits and related solutions for short-range wireless communication.
Investors. Nordic Semiconductor (NOD) is a public company listed on the Oslo stock exchange in Norway. The company is a market leader in short-range wireless technology with ultralow power consumption. Nordic Semiconductor (NOD) presents its financial results for Q3 2015 on October 16, 2015 at 08:00am CET.The presentation will take place at Thon Hotel Vika Atrium, Munkedamsveien 45, Oslo. Click to download the Q3 2015 Quarterly Report. Click below for live webcast.
814 M. Nordic Semiconductor ASA designs, sells and delivers integrated circuits for wireless applications.The company specializes in ultra-low power wireless solutions, based on its proprietary 2.4 GHz RF and Bluetooth Smart technology.Its product categories in clude PC and tablet accessories,... Read more. 
NOD.OL. Nordic Semiconductor ASA is a Norway-based company engaged in the development and sell of integrated circuits and related solutions for short-range wireless communication. The Company specializes in ultra-low power (ULP) components, based on 2.4 Gigahertz (GHz) and Bluetooth Smart technology. kr31.90. Nordic Semiconductor ASA is a Norway-based company engaged in the development and sell of integrated circuits and related solutions for short-range wireless communication.
Nordic Semiconductor has been ISO 9001 certified by DNV since 1996, and the certificate was upgraded to ISO 9001-2000 in 2001. In 1996, Nordic Semiconductor was listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange's SME list. History [edit]. Nordic Semiconductor was initially founded as Nordic VLSI (NVLSI) in Trondheim, Norway in 1983. The company was formed by four post-graduates from the Norwegian University of Science and Technology. Initially the company focused on the design of mixed-signal ASICs within the Nordic region.
Nordic Semiconductor (OSE: NOD) (formerly Nordic VLSI) is a fabless semiconductor company. The company specializes in ultra-low power performance wireless SoCs (System on a chip) and connectivity devices for the 2.4 GHz ISM band, with power consumption and cost being the main focus areas. History [edit]. Nordic Semiconductor was initially founded as Nordic VLSI (NVLSI) in Trondheim, Norway in 1983. The company was formed by four post-graduates from the Norwegian University of Science and Technology. Initially the company focused on the design of mixed-signal ASICs within the Nordic region.
Nordic Semiconductor is a fabless semiconductor company specializing in ultra low power (ULP) short-range wireless communication in the license-free 2.4GHz and sub-1-GHz Industrial, Scientific and Medical (ISM) bands. Nordic is a Norwegian public company listed on the Oslo stock exchange (OSE: NOD). Description. Nordic Semiconductor's quarterly technology magazine-ULP Wireless Quarter (Q) - is intended to keep interested parties up-to-date on what's happening with Nordic RF proprietary, ANT+, and Bluetooth low energy wireless technology.
Summary. Nordic Semiconductor is a leader in the Ultra Low Power (ULP) and Bluetooth Smart wireless technology, ideally positioning them for the coming IoT revolution. Although potentially richly valued, this is a solid investment, considering the IoT sector growth potential. Nordic Semiconductor, then known as Nordic VLSI, started in 1983 as a spin-out from the Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU) located in Trondheim, Norway.
Invitation to Q3 Financial Result Presentation. Nordic Semiconductor (NOD) presents its financial results for Q3 2015 on October 16, 2015 at 08:00am CET.The presentation will take place at Thon Hotel Vika Atrium, Munkedamsveien 45, Oslo. Click to download the Q3 2015 Quarterly Report. Click below for live webcast.