A fluorescence microscope is much the same as a conventional light microscope with added features to enhance its capabilities. 1  The conventional microscope uses visible light (400-700 nanometers) to illuminate and produce a magnified image of a sample.
Immunofluorescence microscopy is used to localize specific constituents in tissue sections or immobilized cells using fluorescent tags as labels.
There are two classes of immunofluorescence techniques, primary (or direct) and secondary (or indirect). 1  Primary (direct). 2  Primary, or direct, immunofluorescence uses a single antibody that is conjugated directly to a fluorescent dye.
1 Primary (direct). 2  Primary, or direct, immunofluorescence uses a single antibody that is conjugated directly to a fluorescent dye. 3  The antibody recognizes the target molecule, binds to it and the conjugated fluorescent dye can be detected by the microscope.
Shakes DC, Miller DM 3rd, Nonet ML. Immunofluorescence microscopy is a powerful technique that is widely used by researchers to assess both the localization and endogenous expression levels of their favorite proteins.
Immunofluorescence is a technique used for light microscopy with a fluorescence microscope and is used primarily on microbiological samples.
IMMUNOFLUORESCENCE Immunofluorescence is an antigen-antibody reaction where the antibodies are tagged (labelled) with a fluorescent dye and the antigen-antibody complex is visualized using ultra-violet (fluorescent) microscope. Fluorochromes are dyes that absorb ultra-violet rays and emit visible light.
1 Primary, or direct, immunofluorescence uses a single antibody that is conjugated directly to a fluorescent dye. 2  The antibody recognizes the target molecule, binds to it and the conjugated fluorescent dye can be detected by the microscope.
Immunofluorescence can be used on tissue sections, cultured cells or individual cells that are fixed by a variety of methods. Antibodies can be used in this method to analyze the distribution of proteins, glycoproteins and other antigen targets including small biological and non-biological molecules.
Applications, Direct and Indirect Methods. Immunofluorescence is a common technique using a fluorescence microscope in labs/institutions that perform biological studies, as it allows scientists to easily identify and differentiate between the antibodies and antigens present in a tissue sample.