This artifact of what is believed to be the oldest shoe was found when it was about 5,500 years old. The discovery was made in 2008 in Armenia. It is made of leather particularly for the right foot. Artifacts at the Sibudu Cave. Believed to be more than 77, 000 years old and maybe the oldest artifacts ever, these artifacts were first found in 1983, although documented records state that much more discoveries were made in 1998. South Africa is the home to the Sibudu Cave where these artifacts were found
While the shoe isn't the oldest ever found (that honor goes to a 10,000-year-old shoe made of sagebrush fiber found in Fort Rock Cave, Oregon) it is the oldest leather shoe ever found (and the oldest shoe on display). 
Report Abuse. I can tell FOR SURE about the the oldest gold artifact and piece of bone. They are both in BULGARIA: 1. The oldest golden jewelry was found in Varna (a town on the Bulgarian Black Sea coastline) and it is proven it was made in Bulgaria by the Thracian tribe. 2. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Stone tool marks are found on fossilzed bones dating from the time of Homo Erectus, over three million years old. These are human artifacts, although not of the artistic type. You might look up the Venus of Willendorf on the www.
Archaeologists claim to have found the oldest known artefact in the Americas, a scraper-like tool in an Oregon cave that dates back 14,230 years. 
Ancient Shoes. This artifact of what is believed to be the oldest shoe was found when it was about 5,500 years old. The discovery was made in 2008 in Armenia. It is made of leather particularly for the right foot. It shows an innovation of its kind, being able to last for all these years before it was discovered. Artifacts at the Sibudu Cave. Believed to be more than 77, 000 years old and maybe the oldest artifacts ever, these artifacts were first found in 1983, although documented records state that much more discoveries were made in 1998. South Africa is the home to the Sibudu Cave where these artifacts were foun
3 The Oldest Masks. The oldest masks ever found are a collection of 9,000-year-old stone masks from what is now Israel during the Neolithic era. They were collected from sites in the Judean Desert and the Judean hills and are currently on display in the Israel Museum in Jerusalem. The oldest wooden buildings to still stand are at the Buddist Horyu-ji Temple in Ikaruga, Nara Prefecture, Japan. Four of the buildings at the Temple survive intact, dating from Japan’s Asuka era. Construction began in A.D. 587 under the orders of Emperor Yomei, as a form of prayer to recover from an illness.
The oldest full shoe in the world was found in Armenia and is around 5,500 years old. The leather shoe is around a woman’s size seven and made for a right foot. It is essentially a leather bag tied together with a series of leather straps at the top and is astonishingly well-preserved. Bows are found around the world, and for thousands of years they represented our most efficient way of killing from a distance. The oldest intact bows ever found come from Denmark and are around 8,000 years old. They are named for the area in which they were dug up—Holmegaard—and are longbows made of elm. They measure around 170 centimeters (67 in)
What is the oldest ancient artifact ever found. The oldest fossil ever found was a human skull that belonged to people who lived over 160,000 years ago! They were found in 1997 and took six years to identify!