Polynesian tattoo designs are actually an umbrella term for all tattoos that use design patterns, symbols and meanings from the Polynesian Triangle. This area of the Pacific Ocean is wide and vast. The northern point of the triangle is Hawaii, the eastern point; Auckland area and the western point, Easter Island. 
Hawaiian tattoos basically, resemble the deep culture of Hawaiian Islands and heritage through different symbols and elements associated to the beautiful culture of Hawaii. That is why all men and women that wear these tattoos associate themselves deeply with those cultures. One of the most popular design in Hawaiian tattoo is that of the Gecko, which is believed to have supernatural powers. It is a conception that the green gecko brings illness and bad fortune to whomever it comes in contact with. SHARKS: As per the fact, sharks resemble a powerful creature and are considered sacred.
Hawaiian tattoo designs symbolize religious devotion, rites, bravery, status, ranks and heritage. There are a variety of symbols used in Hawaiian tattoos that possess different meanings. One of the most popular design in Hawaiian tattoo is that of the Gecko, which is believed to have supernatural powers. It is a conception that the green gecko brings illness and bad fortune to whomever it comes in contact with. SHARKS: As per the fact, sharks resemble a powerful creature and are considered sacred.
The two styles absolutely complemented each other and created this new style. Some information about Hawaiian tribal tattoos and symbolism will help if you’re planning a custom desig n with your tattoo artist. Popular symbols of Hawaii are mostly of Hawaiian Gods in the form of a tiki or the animal form. Animal forms include, turtles, dolphins, flowers, geckos, sharks, owls, and hawks. Flowers are pretty much restricted to the Hibiscus. If you are looking for some symbolism in your Hawaiian tribal tattoo, Ku presents some fabulous opportunities. Ku is considered the father of all ancient native Hawaiians. Together with his wife, Hina, they have created all mankind.
Sun. In Polynesian tattoo designs, the sun often goes with other symbols to express specific meanings. Many rounded Polynesian tattoo designs include the sun’s meanings. In Polynesian culture the sun often stands for riches, brilliance, grandness and leadership. The sun’s periodic rising is regarded as eternity, giving consistent source, which is similar with other cultures.
Polynesian Tattoo Symbols & Meanings – Ocean. Ocean symbols are very common among Polynesian tattoo designs. They are usually used to not only express specific meanings but also fill some blank blocks in order to shape complete patterns. Polynesian people regard the ocean as their final destination where they go when passed away. Many rounded Polynesian tattoo designs include the sun’s meanings. In Polynesian culture the sun often stands for riches, brilliance, grandness and leadership. The sun’s periodic rising is regarded as eternity, giving consistent source, which is similar with other cultures.
As Hawaiian tattoos possess deep meaning in themselves, they are worn by many men and women to represent the Hawaiian tradition and heritage. These tattoos can depict the whole history of the great Hawaiian culture and portray a specific island or the state of Hawaii. One of the most popular design in Hawaiian tattoo is that of the Gecko, which is believed to have supernatural powers. It is a conception that the green gecko brings illness and bad fortune to whomever it comes in contact with. SHARKS: As per the fact, sharks resemble a powerful creature and are considered sacred.
The tattoos symbolize the tribal gods and goddesses as well as other animals which are considered to be auspicious in the Hawaiian tribal culture. Below is a list of 25 Hawaiian tribal tattoos designs that will tell you more about the symbolic meaning of the patterns and designs. Take a look and get transported to the world of Hawaiian tribes for a short while. So, here we go on the trip. The Hawaiian tribal tattoos are a blend of tradition and modernity as, these days, people add some of their own creativity in them but there are some who go for the original work.
But the tattoo has a much longer history in the Polynesian society that these symbols. Tattoos traditional Hawaiian style is similar to other countries through the designs are mostly geometric patterns made of black lines. The original Hawaiian tattoos were made with found objects such as bones or animal claws. These three symbols are associated with Hawaii and Hawaiian culture. They are popular tattoo designs. Women are attracted by the exotic beauty of the hibiscus. For many it is with summer flowers and fun.
RE: meaning of tribal(hawaiian/samoan) tattoo symbols? does anyone know what the meanings of every symbol are in tribal tattoos? like for instance &quot;the Rock&#39;s&quot; tribal tattoo tells a story about his life.