With Group Text! you can easily send mass texts (on iPhone) or mass iMessages (on all devices) to groups, to handpicked set of contacts or to distribution lists. Once you create a list, you no longer have to select contacts one-by-one for a group message. Simply tap on the list or group name and you are ready to send!
How to send group messages on iPhone. 1) Download Connect from the App Store, or another similar application (see below for a list), then launch the app and allow it to access your contacts. 2) In the list view, select the contact group you want to send a text message to. 3) Tap and hold your finger on the group name. 4) You will be offered several options. Tap on the Message option
You can delete lists using the red button on the left of a list name. You can edit an existing list tapping the name. When creating or editing a list you can edit the list name and see the list recipients. Use the red button to remove a recipient from the list. 
3. Tap Add Contact to add another party to the group message. UPDATE 2: You can now delete a person who you added to a group message by going to the Details panel and swiping on their name. Learn more about adding and removing contacts with iOS 8 here. Currently iOS (7.0.4) does not have the ability to add or remove a contact to an existing group iMessage or text thread. In order to modify the list of contacts in the group message, a new message must be created with the correct contact list. UPDATE: iOS 8 brings this some of this capability to the Messages app. To add a contact to an existing group text message follow these steps in Messages: 1. Open the group message thread. 2
You can only delete a person from a group if you added them. To delete a person from a group message go to the Details page and swipe left on their name like you're deleting an email. This will bring up a red Delete button for you to tap so you can remove that person from the group. 
Add or remove someone from a group iMessage conversation. Anyone in the group message can add or remove someone from the conversation. To add a person to a group message, tap Details, then tap Add Contact. You can remove a person from a group message that has at least four people. Tap Details, then swipe from right to left on the name of the person you want to remove. Then tap Delete
No More Annoying Group Texts. Group messaging is also going to be vastly improved. With iOS 8 you can name your group texting threads and add or remove people from group texts. You can also leave a group messaging thread or push do not disturb to mute a specific thread. No more annoying group texts! 
How do you remove someone from a group message on an iphone? I had to ask a large group of people a question and some of them who don't have iPhones would like to leave the group. 