After mixed remove from heat and cover. At this time you should put your pork chops into oven and let cook for 30 minutes at 350 degrees. In 30 minutes, pour gravy over pork chops, place back in oven and cook for another 30 minutes. After 1 hour it is ready. Place the chop in the skillet; do not cover. Cook the chop uncovered, turn occasionally, until browned on both sides. Season as desired and serve immediately. This works well with 3/4-inch-thick chops. A 3/4-inch chop will take about 6 to 10 minutes total cooking time. Thinner cuts will take less time.
Put the pork chops in a medium bowl, and pour the brinerade over them, reserving roughly 2 tbsp of the brinerade for later. Toss the pork chops to evenly cover with the marinade, and toss once or twice while the grill preheats. 2. Prepare the grill: Preheat your grill, then set it up for grilling on direct medium heat. 
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: it all depends on thickness of the chops first off. the thinner they are, the less they need of course. for me when they are thin usally about 5 min per side med thickness say 8 min per side thick 10-12 min per side... 
How to Saute Chops. The easiest way to fry pork chops is to saute them, which means to cook them quickly in a little oil in a skillet. Boneless or bone-in rib or loin chops, cut 1/2 to 3/4 inch thick, work well for this. For four chops, heat 2 teaspoons vegetable oil or olive oil in a large skillet over medium heat. How to Oven-Fry Chops. For hands-off cooking, try this simple oven method. You can use either boneless or bone-in chops for this method. 1  Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. 2  As in pan-frying Steps 2 through 4 (above), dip the pork chops in egg mixture and breading.
If chops are thicker (1 1/2), grill for about 10 minutes per side. Can brush with sauce in last few minutes of grilling. Any type of cooking of pork chops... The idea would be to get the internal temperature of the pork to be around 160 degrees. You can bake thin cut bone in pork chops by first preheating the  oven to 400 degrees. Then place the chops on a foil lined baking  pan and cook for about 8 to 10 minutes de … pending on actual  thickness. 2 people found this useful.