The Nazca Lines are giant sketches drawn in the desert of western Peru by ancient peoples. The drawings were created on such a large scale is such that the shapes can be readily discerned only from the air, leading to a variety of theories about their purpose. The Nazca Lines were created in the time of the Nazca Indians, who flourished in the area from 200 BC to about 600 AD. Graves and ruins of their civilization have been found near the lines.
The Nazca designs and Lines. The 300 figures, lines and shapes are located in an area of nearly 500 sq kilometers or 190 sq miles. Among the zoomorphic figures are the famous Nazca condor, hummingbird, pelican, shark, bird, fish, spider, lizard, parrot, flamingo, iguana, dog, llamas, jaguar, fox, whale and monkey.
The Nazca Lines /ˈnaezkə/ ˈnæzkə are a series of ancient geoglyphs located in The Nazca desert in Southern. Peru they were designated as A Unesco World Heritage site in. 1994 The Lines themselves are superficial, they are only 10 to 30 cm deep and could be washed away... Nazca has only ever received a small amount of rain. But now there are great changes to the weather all over the world. The Lines cannot resist heavy rain without being damaged.
The Nazca Lines, a group of hundreds of mysterious geoglyphs etched into the desert in Peru, have mystified archaeologists and scientists for decades. Now researchers analyzing the style and type of geoglyphs say they were made by two different groups of people taking different pilgrimage routes to an ancient temple. SAN FRANCISCO — The Nazca Lines, a series of fantastical geoglyphs etched into the desert in Peru, may have been used by two separate groups of people to make pilgrimage to an ancient temple, new research suggests.
View full size image. The Nazca (also spelled Nasca) Lines are geoglyphs located in an arid coastal area of Peru that cover an estimated 170 square miles (450 square kilometers). Scratched on the ground, they number in the thousands and depict creatures from both the natural world and the human imagination. 
The Nazca Lines. The Nazca Lines are an exceptional collection of geoglyphs in the southern desert of Peru. There are about 300 figures among them including geometric shapes, animal like figures, straight continuous lines, humans and plants. The 300 figures, lines and shapes are located in an area of nearly 500 sq kilometers or 190 sq miles. Among the zoomorphic figures are the famous Nazca condor, hummingbird, pelican, shark, bird, fish, spider, lizard, parrot, flamingo, iguana, dog, llamas, jaguar, fox, whale and monkey.
Sources at the bottom of the page. Section: Nazca Lines. The Nazca Lines of Peru have been an important part of the Ancient Astronaut theory since its beginning. Originally Von Daniken claimed that the lines were kind of a UFO runway, or a type of alien airport, where the alien craft landed and took off. 
The Nazca Lines /ˈnaezkə/ ˈnæzkə are a series of ancient geoglyphs located in The Nazca desert in Southern. peru The Lines themselves are superficial, they are only 10 to 30 cm deep and could be washed away... Nazca has only ever received a small amount of rain. But now there are great changes to the weather all over the world. The Lines cannot resist heavy rain without being damaged.
Nazca Lines. These are the principals figures that you can see from the airplane. The position of the pictures is in sequence according to the flight over the Nazca Lines. The brightness and contrast of the pictures has been magnified to appreciate better the lines. The lines have not been edited.
Location. The Nazca Lines are located on the Pampas of Jumana in the Nazca Desert in the department of Ica in southern Peru, about 400 km from the capital Lima. The Pampas of Jumala is an isolated 80 kilometer arid plateau characterized by a very stable climate. The 300 figures, lines and shapes are located in an area of nearly 500 sq kilometers or 190 sq miles. Among the zoomorphic figures are the famous Nazca condor, hummingbird, pelican, shark, bird, fish, spider, lizard, parrot, flamingo, iguana, dog, llamas, jaguar, fox, whale and monkey.