On 19 February 1942 at 9.58am Japanese bombers began to arrive over Darwin in the Northern Territory of Australia in the first of two attacks. 
Best Answer: Darwin was bombed by the Japanese in 1942 as part of a plan in invade Australia. I had an uncle stationed there and they definitely did a lot of damage. The Japanese could bomb Darwin, therefore they did so. Just as the Americans bombed Tokyo when the Japanese thought that the Americans could not reach that far. It wasn't much of a raid but there was psychological value. John P · 4 years ago.
On this day, 242 Japanese aircraft attacked ships in Darwin's harbour and the town's two airfields in an attempt to prevent the Allies from using them as bases to contest the invasions of Timor and Java. The urban areas of Darwin also suffered some damage from the raids and there were a number of civilian casualties. The raids were the first and largest of almost 100 air raids against Australia during 1942–43.
On 19 February 1942 Darwin itself was bombed. Japanese fighters and bombers attacked the port and shipping in the harbour twice during the day, killing 252 Allied service personnel and civilians. On 3 March Broome, in Western Australia, was strafed. 
The Bombing of Darwin, also known as the Battle of Darwin, on 19 February 1942 was both the first and the largest single attack ever mounted by a foreign power on Australia. The urban areas of Darwin also suffered some damage from the raids and there were a number of civilian casualties. The raids were the first and largest of almost 100 air raids against Australia during 1942–43.
The bombing of Darwin – Fact sheet 195. On 19 February 1942 mainland Australia came under attack for the first time when Japanese forces mounted two air raids on Darwin. In the hours following the air raids on 19 February, believing that an invasion was imminent, Darwin's population began to stream southwards, heading for Adelaide River and the train south.
A memorial ceremony is held every year on 19 February at the Cenotaph in Darwin. At 9:58 am, a World War II Air Raid Siren sounds to mark the precise time of the first attack. The raid is also portrayed in the 2008 film Australia as a major plot event. The urban areas of Darwin also suffered some damage from the raids and there were a number of civilian casualties. The raids were the first and largest of almost 100 air raids against Australia during 1942–43.
With Singapore having fallen to the Japanese only days earlier, and concerned at the effect of the bombing on national morale, the government announced that only 17 people had been killed. The air attacks on Darwin continued until November 1943, by which time the Japanese had bombed Darwin 64 times. In the hours following the air raids on 19 February, believing that an invasion was imminent, Darwin's population began to stream southwards, heading for Adelaide River and the train south.
The defence of Darwin - 1942 - More Japanese bombs fell on Darwin than on Pearl Harbour. Darwin, the capital of Australia's Northern Territory, was devastated by Japan's Pearl Harbour veterans on the 19th February 1942, in which 243 people were killed. In all, the Japanese attacked Darwin 64 times and the last attack occurred in late 1943. However the Territory was not undefended. On 19 February 1942 war came to Australia for the first time since white settlement. From a point off the coast of Timor a fleet of around 200 Japanese aircraft were despatched to attack Darwin. Early in the morning the aircraft passed over Bathurst Island and Catholic missionaries based there radioed Darwin.
The Japanese first attacked Darwin on the morning of 19 February 1942. This was the first time since European settlement that mainland Australia had been attacked by a foreign enemy. Two weeks after the Darwin bombing, on 3 March 1942, the Western Australian town of Broome suffered Australia's second-worst air raid. The attack killed an estimated seventy people, perhaps as many as one hundred, and injured another forty, as well as eight large aircraft and 16 flying boats, 24 aircraft in total.