A must see is the Sagano Bamboo Grove. Byodoin Temple – Located in nearby Uji City, originally a villa converted into a temple, this is one of Japan’s top attractions. The Phoenix Hall is its most spectacular feature. Daigo-ji Temple – Founded in 874 this World Heritage site is one of Kyoto’s most beautiful. The main temple grounds are located at a foot of a mountain. Daikaku-ji Temple – Built in the 9th century as a villa for the emperor and later converted into a large temple.
Nintendo Company Ltd. (任天堂株式会社, Nintendō Kabushiki gaisha) is a multinational corporation located in Kyoto, Japan founded on September 23, 1889 by Fusajiro Yamauchi to produce handmade hanafuda cards. Nintendo was founded as a Japanese business by Fusajiro Yamauchi in late 1889, originally named Nintendo Koppai. Based in Kyoto, Japan, the business produced and marketed a playing card game called Hanafuda. The handmade cards soon became popular, and Yamauchi hired assistants to mass produce cards to satisfy demand
Kyoto City on w central Honshu island, Japan; capital of Kyoto prefecture. Founded in the 6th century, it was the capital of Japan for more than 1000 years. Industries: porcelain, lacquerware, textiles, precision tools. Pop. (2000) 1,468,000. Kyoto (kyō´tō) , city (1990 pop. 1,461,140), capital of Kyoto prefecture, S Honshu, Japan, on the Kamo River. Yodo is its port. Kyoto is one of Japan's largest cities and an important cultural and spiritual center. It is a key city in Japan's transportation system, and it is a major center of tourism
Kyoto (kyōˈtō) [ key ], city (1990 pop. 1,461,140), capital of Kyoto prefecture, S Honshu, Japan, on the Kamo River. Yodo is its port. Kyoto is one of Japan's largest cities and an important cultural and spiritual center. It is a key city in Japan's transportation system, and it is a major center of tourism. Founded in the 8th cent. as Uda and named Heian-kyo when it became Japan's capital in 794, the city was popularly called Miyako or Kyoto (sometimes Kioto).
Kyoto is Japan's third largest city and also one its oldest. It was originally founded as Heian in 794, and had its golden age during the court's heyday from 794 to 1185. Home to many cultural landmarks and historical sites, Kyoto is thought of as the heart of Japan. The city still bears the name Kyoto, or Capital City, even though the emperor and the National Diet are located in Tokyo.
It has a population close to 1.5 million. Formerly the Imperial capital of Japan for more than one thousand years, it is now the capital city of Kyoto Prefecture located in the Kansai region, as well as a major part of the Kyoto-Osaka-Kobe metropolitan area. Kyoto is also known as the City of Ten Thousand Shrines. Historically, Kyoto was the largest city in Japan, later surpassed by Osaka and Edo (Tokyo) towards the end of the 16th century. In the pre-war years, Kyoto traded places with Kobe and Nagoya ranking as the 4th and 5th largest city.
As of October 2, 2008, Nintendo has sold over 470 million hardware units and 2.7 billion software units. Nintendo was founded as a Japanese business by Fusajiro Yamauchi in late 1889, originally named Nintendo Koppai. Based in Kyoto, Japan, the business produced and marketed a playing card game called Hanafuda. The handmade cards soon became popular, and Yamauchi hired assistants to mass produce cards to satisfy demand
With capital of 3 million yen and 28 staff members, Kyoto Ceramic Co., Ltd. is founded in Kyoto, Japan as a company specializing in fine ceramics. The company’s facilities include a headquarters and factory. Kyoto Ceramic Co., Ltd. (now Kyocera Corporation). 