Mica imparts a sparkly white appearance to cosmetics and personal care products. Scientific Facts: Mica is a group of silicate minerals that are widely distributed in different types of rock. Mica often occurs as flakes, scraps, or sheets, and has been used by humans since prehistoric times. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) lists Mica as a color additive exempt from certification. Mica, is safe for use in coloring products, including cosmetics and personal care products applied to the lips, and the area of the eye.
Mica is a naturally occurring mineral dust often used in makeup foundations, as filler in cement and asphalt, and as insulation material in electric cables. Workers in cosmetic manufacturing factories are at high risk of mica exposure through inhalation. Mica minerals are often used as color additives in cosmetics. [2] They also have reflective properties, allowing for a shimmery effect in mineral foundations.
Mineral makeup is a big trend. Made from minerals such as mica, which are used for industrial purposes as well, these tiny particles are a thousand times smaller than predecessors from even 10 years ago. Their small size makes for a smoother, more flawless look, but it has one serious unintended consequence. 
It is mined in thin sheets and is usually found in blue or green hues, although iron oxides are often added to create a brilliant range of bright colors. Although many minerals are used as pigments in cosmetics, Mica's sheer, translucent and skin-hugging properties make it a popular ingredient in mineral powders. Mica powder reflects light from the face because of its glittering or shimmering properties, and can create the illusion of a smoother, softer and more radiant skin tone (Source). It is also seen in a variety of other cosmetics (nail polishes, lip glosses) as an iridescent, reflective ingredient in formulas.
Flake mica can be a by-product of processing feldspar. Mica is the term for 34 types of layered or flaky phyllosilicate minerals, or minerals containing silica (USGS). Mica likely got its name from Latin, where the word “micare” means to shine. Many believe that mica’s name origins refer to its lustrous qualities (Mineral Information Institute). Mica Makeup Safety. Workers who inhale mica can suffer severe consequences to their lungs. Mica is primarily dangerous when inhaled, so it’s generally any powder or aerosol products that are the most concerning. The particles can get into the lungs and cause scarring.
Mica. * A mineral that reflects light. * Please read TIA’s article on Mineral Make Up and Why TIA Isn’t Always in Favor. Functions: Mica is a silicate mineral used in cosmetics for its brilliant or shimmering appearance, according to Wikipedia. The word mica is actually thought to be derived from the Latin word micare, meaning to glitter.. Mica powder reflects light from the face because of its glittering or shimmering properties, and can create the illusion of a smoother, softer and more radiant skin tone (Source). It is also seen in a variety of other cosmetics (nail polishes, lip glosses) as an iridescent, reflective ingredient in formulas.
Mica is a naturally occurring group of silicate minerals. In cosmetics and personal care products, Mica, from muscovite mica is used in the formulation of a wide variety of product types, including makeup, nail products and skin care products. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) lists Mica as a color additive exempt from certification. Mica, is safe for use in coloring products, including cosmetics and personal care products applied to the lips, and the area of the eye.