The net force is the vector sum of all the forces that act upon an object. That is to say, the net force is the sum of all the forces, taking into account the fact that a force is a vector and two forces of equal magnitude and opposite direction will cancel each other out.
Any time the forces acting on an object are unbalanced, the net force is not zero, and the motion of the object changes. This figure demonstrates that horizontal force acting on a refrigerator is F. If F is the only force acting on the refrigerator, then it will accelerate horizontally (a). An object can be moving even if the net force acting on it is zero. A soccer ball, for example, receives an unbalanced force when it is kicked. However, the ball continues to roll along the ground long after the force of the kick has ended. Sometimes two or more forces can act on one mass at the same time.
Absolutely. The key is to realize that a net force of zero on an object means only that it is not accelerating. This means that an object feeling zero net force can either be stationary or moving at constant speed in a straight line. In order for the acceleration to be zero, the velocity has to be constant. If the object is at 0 velocity (not moving), the object would remain unmoving when a net force of 0 is applied to it. If the object is moving at a certain velocity, it would remain at that velocity.
The combination of all the forces acting on an object is the net force. When more than one force is acting on an object, the net force determines the motion of the object. In this example, the paper clip is not moving, so the net force is zero. An object can be moving even if the net force acting on it is zero. A soccer ball, for example, receives an unbalanced force when it is kicked. However, the ball continues to roll along the ground long after the force of the kick has ended. Sometimes two or more forces can act on one mass at the same time.
The net force is the total force. It could be the sum of two forces or more than two forces. If only one force acts upon an object, then this one force would be the net force. If the net force on an object is zero, then the object experiences no velocity change. If the net force on an object is not zero, then the object will show a change in velocity. Lastly, this net force must be external to the object. The net force can not come from the object itself. The First Law is concerned with changes in velocity caused by non-zero net forces. Isaac Newton stated three laws of motion; the first law deals with forces and changes in velocity. For just a moment, let us imagine that you can apply only one force to an object.
The net, or total, force acting on the object is zero Newtons. This means one of two things. There could be no forces acting on the object. Or there could be several forces acting on the object, but they push against each other and cancel, and the result is as if no force is acting. 'it will continue in its state of rest'. If it is standing still, it will continue to stand still.
For other uses, see Net force (disambiguation) . In physics, net force is the overall force acting on an object. In order to calculate the net force, the body is isolated and interactions with the environment or other constraints are represented as forces and torques in a free-body diagram. 
The net or total force is zero. Either there are absolutely no forces acting on the object, or there are several, but when you add them all together, they cancel each other out. 'continues its motion with constant velocity'. Constant velocity means motion in a straight line with unchanging speed. Or there could be several forces acting on the object, but they push against each other and cancel, and the result is as if no force is acting. 'it will continue in its state of rest'. If it is standing still, it will continue to stand still.
If you apply a net force to an object, it accelerates. The net force acting on an object is always zero if and only if it … is in static equilibrium; that is, the object is not moving (rotation or translation) or moving with constant velocity. In order for the acceleration to be zero, the velocity has to be constant. If the object is at 0 velocity (not moving), the object would remain unmoving when a net force of 0 is applied to it. If the object is moving at a certain velocity, it would remain at tha