any of various nearly colorless cells of the immune system that circulate mainly in the blood and lymph, comprising the B cells, T cells, macrophages, monocytes, and granulocytes. Also called leukocyte, white′ blood′ cor`puscle, white′ cell`. WBC. Any of various nucleated blood cells that lack hemoglobin and function in the immune system to protect against agents of infection and foreign matter. White blood cells include neutrophils, eosinophils, basophils, lymphocytes, and monocytes. Also called leukocyte, white cell, white corpuscle. n
A cell that carries out the final response or function of a particular process. The main effector cells of the immune system, for example, are activated lymphocytes and phagocytes—the cells involved in destroying pathogens and removing them from the body. Cell formed in myelopoietic, lymphoid, and reticular portions of the reticuloendothelial system in various parts of the body, and normally present in those sites and in the circulating blood. Synonym(s): white blood cell, leucocyte.
T cell: A type of white blood cell that is of key importance to the immune system and is at the core of adaptive immunity, the system that tailors the body's immune response to specific pathogens. The T cells are like soldiers who search out and destroy the targeted invaders. Not all of their functions are known. T cells can produce substances called cytokines such as the interleukins which further stimulate the immune response. T-cell activation is measured as a way to assess the health of patients with HIV/AIDS and less frequently in other disorders. T cell are also known as T lymphocytes.
Overview. Immune function is helped by two kinds of white blood cells. The “B cells” (so-called because they develop in bone marrow) produce antibodies. The “T cells” (so-called because they develop in a small organ called the thymus gland) are responsible for a variety of other immune responses. These responses include: 1  direct attacks on foreign substances such as bacteria, viruses, or foreign tissues; 2  augmenting the B cell response; and
Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell. There are B and T type lymphocytes. 1  B lymphocytes become cells that produce antibodies. 2  Antibodies attach to a specific antigen and make it easier for the immune cells to destroy the antigen. 3  T lymphocytes attack antigens directly and help control the immune response.
T cells or T lymphocytes are a type of lymphocyte (in turn, a type of white blood cell) that plays a central role in cell-mediated immunity. They can be distinguished from other lymphocytes, such as B cells and natural killer cells (NK cells), by the presence of a T-cell receptor (TCR) on the cell surface. 
Any of the colorless or white cells in the blood that have a nucleus and cytoplasm and help protect the body from infection and disease through specialized neutrophils, lymphocytes, and monocytes. Cell formed in myelopoietic, lymphoid, and reticular portions of the reticuloendothelial system in various parts of the body, and normally present in those sites and in the circulating blood. Synonym(s): white blood cell, leucocyte.
white′ blood′ cell`. any of various nearly colorless cells of the immune system that circulate mainly in the blood and lymph, comprising the B cells, T cells, macrophages, monocytes, and granulocytes. Abbr. WBC. Any of various nucleated blood cells that lack hemoglobin and function in the immune system to protect against agents of infection and foreign matter. White blood cells include neutrophils, eosinophils, basophils, lymphocytes, and monocytes. Also called leukocyte, white cell, white corpuscle. n