Conclusions: The authors propose a standardized non-ischemic grip test that overcomes the main drawbacks of the classic ischemic forearm exercise test. It provides a specific, efficient, and safe screening test for patients with exercise intolerance. It is not completely standardized and, when performed in ischemic conditions, may induce rhabdomyolysis in patients with glycogenosis. Objective: To develop a standardized non-ischemic exercise test for a safe screening of
Ischemic Forearm Test. This test is a valuable diagnostic test for a number of metabolic diseases. Speaking generally, the test measures concentration of lactic acid in the blood before and after local exertion of a muscle group. Diagnosis of McArdle’s Disease. The test is performed by contracting the forearm to fatigue with a blood pressure cuff inflated to greater than systolic pressure. Antecubital blood samples for lactate and ammonia are collected before and following exercise at 0, 1, 2, 5, and 10 minutes.
Abstract. Background: The forearm exercise test is a common investigation that allows detection of some metabolic myopathies. It is not completely standardized and, when performed in ischemic conditions, may induce rhabdomyolysis in patients with glycogenosis. Objective: To develop a standardized non-ischemic exercise test for a safe screening of patients with exercise intolerance.
The ischemic forearm test is only moderately uncomfortable to undergo, involving blood samples, a pressure cuff, and a device to squeeze with the hand for forearm muscle contraction, but takes a few hours in order to get blood samples at a resting metabolic rate. Diagnosis of McArdle’s Disease. The test is performed by contracting the forearm to fatigue with a blood pressure cuff inflated to greater than systolic pressure. Antecubital blood samples for lactate and ammonia are collected before and following exercise at 0, 1, 2, 5, and 10 minutes.
The ischemic exercise test is not a frequently performed test, and the procedure for it is not described in easily available clinical chemistry textbooks, e.g., Tietz Textbook of Clinical Chemistry (1999) and Kaplan and Pesce’s Clinical Chemistry (1989), or in The Metabolic and Molecular Bases of Inherited Disease (1). The arm was exercised vigorously by opening and closing the fist for 1 min, and a blood sample was taken for lactate measurement. With the cuff still inflated, additional blood samples were taken 2 and 3 min after cessation of the exercise.
Protocol for the Ischemic Forearm Test. The test is performed by contracting the forearm to fatigue with a blood pressure cuff inflated to greater than systolic pressure. Antecubital blood samples for lactate and ammonia are collected before and following exercise at 0, 1, 2, 5, and 10 minutes. Adson’s Test for Thoracic Outlet Syndrome. Procedure: Adson’s maneuver is a test looking for the reduction or obliteration ot the radial artery pulse with compression at the interscalene triangle. The examiner extends and rotates the patient’s shoulder with the arm at the patient’s side.
A non-ischemic forearm exercise test for the screening of patients with exercise intolerance. Hogrel JY(1), Laforet Laforêt, P Ben Yaou, R Chevrot, M Eymard, B Lombes. Lombès a: (author)Information 1 Institut, de MYOLOGIE unite,Unité Inserm 523-Groupe, Hospitalier, Pitie. pitié salpetriere salpêtrière paris france It is not completely standardized and, when performed in ischemic conditions, may induce rhabdomyolysis in patients with glycogenosis. OBJECTIVE: To develop a standardized non-ischemic exercise test for a saf
Ischemic exercise testing is used in evaluation of patients with suspected McArdle disease, also known as glycogen storage disease type V (1). The arm was exercised vigorously by opening and closing the fist for 1 min, and a blood sample was taken for lactate measurement. With the cuff still inflated, additional blood samples were taken 2 and 3 min after cessation of the exercise.
BACKGROUND: The forearm exercise test is a common investigation that allows detection of some metabolic myopathies. It is not completely standardized and, when performed in ischemic conditions, may induce rhabdomyolysis in patients with glycogenosis. OBJECTIVE: To develop a standardized non-ischemic exercise test for a safe screening of patients with exercise intolerance.