The Chlamydia pneumoniae (C. pneumoniae) organism, first described in 1988, is not the sexually-transmitted type. It is an airborne organism that you get from breathing after a person carrying the organism has coughed.
Chlamydiosis, (parrot fever, psittacosis), is an infection caused by bacteria of the genus Chlamydia. Severity of the disease differs by bacterial strain and the susceptibility of different bird species. Infection occurs from inhaling bacteria in airborne particles of feces or respiratory exudes.
A sexually transmitted infection (STI) is the infection, the entering of the bacterium, virus, or parasite into the human body (host). When symptoms appear it is called a sexually transmitted disease (STD) . A person may have no symptoms and have an STI, while a person with an STD can't (STDs have symptoms).
Chlamydophila pneumoniae is a species of rod-shaped, Gram-negative bacteria that is known to be a major cause of pneumonia, asthma, bronchitis, respiratory infection, coronary heart disease, and atherosclerosis in humans.
Chlamydia infection is a Sexually Transmitted Disease, and men can get it. From Wikipedia ..... In men, Chlamydia shows symptoms of infectious urethritis (inflammation of t … he urethra) in about 50% of cases.
Chlamydia is a sexually transmitted infection (STI). Chlamydia may be transmitted by: 1  Having unprotected vaginal sex with an infected person. 2  Having unprotected a
Say Chlamydia pneumoniae and before you get to pneumoniae most people think of a sexually transmitted disease. “As soon as people hear the name Chlamydia their ears shut down,” said Dr. Charles W. Stratton, associate professor of Pathology.
4/23/1999 - Say Chlamydia pneumoniae and before you get to pneumoniae most people think of a sexually transmitted disease. As soon as people hear the name Chlamydia their ears shut down, said Dr. Charles W. Stratton, associate professor of Pathology.
They think of Chlamydia trachomatis, a common cause of sexually transmitted diseases. Chlamydia pneumonia is the one that's not fun to catch.. The Chlamydia pneumoniae (C. pneumoniae) organism, first described in 1988, is not the sexually-transmitted type. It is an airborne organism that you get from breathing after a person carrying the organism has coughed. They float around as droplet nuclei, similar to TB.