My baby had very bad reflux for the first 6 months of her life and she seemed to tolerate breast milk only, any formula made the reflux 10 times worse. As my milk supply was decreasing, the doctor prescribed Nutramigen as a back up (which is with partially hydrolized proteins and lactose free). My Baby is 6 weeks old she was switched from Similac advance to enfamil gentle ease. I told the doctor at her 3 week visit that she was uncomfortable, complaining, grunting and squirming with gas. She switched me right away to a hypoallergenic formula Similac alimentum.
Aptamil ® Gold+ HA Starter Infant Formula is a unique hypo-allergenic formula with special ingredients to support an infants' developing digestive and immune systems. A well-supported immune system is important for your baby's growth and development. When to use Aptamil ® Gold+ HA Starter Infant Formula. Aptamil ® Gold+ HA Starter Infant Formula should not be given to infants with a confirmed cows' milk protein allergy. Please see Gold Pepti Junior if you require a formula for cows' milk protein allergy.
If your baby seems to be allergic to formula made from cow's milk, your doctor may suggest using a soy-milk formula. If you’re not breastfeeding, use infant formula during the first year of your baby’s life. Regular cow's milk and regular soy milk are not the same as infant formula made from cow's milk or from soy milk. Regular cow's milk and regular soy milk do not contain all of the nutrients that your baby needs to grow and develop. 
Aptamil ® Gold+ HA Starter Infant Formula is a nutritionally complete premium infant formula suitable from birth to 6 months for formula-fed infants at risk of allergy (for example, infants with a parent or sibling with a diagnosed allergy), requiring a partial or complete breast milk substitute. When to use Aptamil ® Gold+ HA Starter Infant Formula. Aptamil ® Gold+ HA Starter Infant Formula should not be given to infants with a confirmed cows' milk protein allergy. Please see Gold Pepti Junior if you require a formula for cows' milk protein allergy.
There are several aspects to the marketing campaign, all focused on the Aptamil brand name and supposed health benefits from Pronutra, which is associated with Danone's claim that it has spent 30 years studying breastmilk and has produced its most advanced formula yet.. The closer we look the more we discover. New Aptamil with Pronutra. Follow-on Milk. Aptamil is the brand name for one of Danone's formula ranges, now all highlighted as having Pronutra, a name which is itself an idealising health claim.
Important notice. Breastfeeding is best for babies. Infant formula is suitable from birth when babies are not breastfed. Follow-on milk is only for babies over 6 months, as part of a mixed diet and should not be used as a breastmilk substitute before 6 months. Glossary of terms. This glossary provides a definition, and some explanation, of some of the common terms that are used within research clinical papers 1. Placebo: A dummy preparation used as a control against which the product being tested is compared.
Breastfeeding is best for babies. Infant formula is suitable from birth when babies are not breastfed. Follow-on milk is only for babies over 6 months, as part of a mixed diet and should not be used as a breastmilk substitute before 6 months. 