Our average residential survey is $450, well worth the price for the protection it provides to the buyer. If a buyer obtains a survey of the property and owner’s title insurance on that property, the title company will insure you for any surveying issues that may arise. 
Generally, you will pay for the lender’s survey. The cost is based on the value and size of the property, and is typically £150 to £1,500. Sometimes lenders offer mortgages with free valuation surveys. 
On average, hiring a land surveyor costs $477 nationally, with most homeowners spending between $334 and $651. This data is based on actual project costs as reported by HomeAdvisor members. One of the primary roles of the land surveyor is to find the boundaries of a property. 
1 Total costs depend on the type and complexity of survey. 2  A developer building new houses might have surveys done of the entire development then sell a copy of a specific parcel survey to the buyer of that lot for $300-$500. Shopping for a property survey: 1  If a previous survey was done recently and the same surveyor is available, that surveyor might recertify the original survey 25%-50% of the cost of doing a new land survey. 2  Prices vary significantly; get several estimates.
The price varies widely not only by locality and surveyor but also by dozens of project-specific details. Nationally, the average cost to purchase a land survey is about $760 with a range between about $630 and nearly $900. However, these figures may be adjusted by location. Among the most fundamental of cost factors is the project scope; a 1-acre lot will cost less to survey than 2,000 acres.
House survey costs. How much a property survey will cost will vary a lot depending on the location, size and type of your property. Different surveyors will also charge varying amounts, so make sure you get several quotes before choosing who to use.
Land Surveyor Costs. The costs to survey an average residential home is $300 to $800. The cost will depend on the layout and accessibility. It will also be based on how complex the job is and how detailed the reports need to be. Furthermore, price will always vary from company to company.
1 A typical residential lot survey might cost $300-$1,000 depending on local rates and the size and type of parcel; placing permanent stone or metal boundary markers may be optional at $100-$300 each. Shopping for a property survey: 1  If a previous survey was done recently and the same surveyor is available, that surveyor might recertify the original survey 25%-50% of the cost of doing a new land survey. 2  Prices vary significantly; get several estimates.