Examples include storage polysaccharides such as starch and glycogen and structural polysaccharides such as cellulose and chitin. Polysaccharides have a general formula of Cx(H2O)y where x is usually a large number between 200 and 2500. Glycogen Glycogen is a polysaccharide that is found in animals and is composed of a branched chain of glucose residues. It is stored in liver and muscles. Cellulose The structural component of plants are formed primarily from cellulose.
Chemically, dietary fiber consists of non-starch polysaccharides such as arabinoxylans, cellulose, and many other plant components such as resistant starch, resistant dextrins, inulin, lignin, waxes, chitins, pectins, beta-glucans, and oligosaccharides. 
Amylose and Amylopectin are polysaccharides of starch. Amylose has a linear chain structure made up of hundreds of glucose molecules that is linked by a alpha 1,4 glycosidic linkage. Due to the nature of these alpha 1,4 bonds, the macromolecule often assumes a bent shape. 
Definition of POLYSACCHARIDE. : a carbohydrate that can be decomposed by hydrolysis into two or more molecules of monosaccharides; especially: one (as cellulose, starch, or glycogen) containing many monosaccharide units and marked by complexity. See polysaccharide defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Medical Definition of POLYSACCHARIDE. : a carbohydrate that can be decomposed by hydrolysis into two or more molecules of monosaccharides; especially: one (as cellulose, starch, or glycogen) containing many monosaccharide units and marked by complexity—called also glycan.
Starch and glycogen are both ways of storing glucose, the energy source for most cells.   Starch and glycogen are both polymers of glucose, produced by repeated condensatio … n reactions between glucose molecules. When the glucose is needed, they can be broken down by hydrolysis reactions to release the glucose. Chitin and cellulose are both polysaccharides. Chitin is sturctural form of glucose in insects, the exoskeleton. Cellulose is the structural form of glucose in plants.
As mentioned, polysaccharides can be used for energy storage. Typically, storage takes the form of starch in both plants and animals. A starch is a chain of glucose molecules that usually takes a linear form. In plants the common storage starch is amylose; in animals the common storage starch is glycogen.
Confidence votes 108. Yes starch is a polysaccharide. The three most common types of polysaccharides are starch, glycogen, and cellulose. Starch is a glucose polymer and insoluble in water; they must be digested with amylases. Chitin and cellulose are both polysaccharides. Chitin is sturctural form of glucose in insects, the exoskeleton. Cellulose is the structural form of glucose in plants.
Sometimes known as glycans, there are three common and principal types of polysaccharide, cellulose, starch and glycogen, all made by joining together molecules of glucose in different ways. Polysaccharides are very large, high molecular weight biological molecules that are almost pure carbohydrate. 
Polysaccharides are an important class of biological polymers. Their function in living organisms is usually either structure-or storage-related. Starch (a polymer of glucose) is used as a storage polysaccharide in plants, being found in the form of both amylose and the branched amylopectin. In animals, the structurally similar glucose polymer is the more densely branched glycogen, sometimes called 'animal starch'. They range in structure from linear to highly branched. Examples include storage polysaccharides such as starch and glycogen, and structural polysaccharides such as cellulose and chitin. Polysaccharides are often quite heterogeneous, containing slight modifications of the repeating unit.