Fever symptoms. A fever is a high temperature when the body's temperature rises above 37.5C (99.5F). The normal body temperature is between 36C-37C (96.8F-98.6F). The high temperature or fever often lasts around two to three days. Check for high temperature or fever using an appropriate thermometer and following the instruction
A fever is a body temperature above 100.4°F. A normal oral temperature for a resting, healthy adult is about 98.6°F (37°C) (for someone over 70 normal temp is 96.8°F (36°C)). Your temperature can go up or down 1 to 2 degrees throughout the day. Fever is a sign of inflammation or infection and is a common symptom of illness. Fever is not a disease. A fever can be divided into three stages. 1  Onset is when the temperature first begins to go up. 2  During the course of the fever the temperature can go up and down in one of three patterns: continuous, intermittent or remittent. 3  During the subsiding stage the temperature returns to normal.
A fever is a rise in body temperature. It's usually a sign of infection. The fever itself is generally harmless and probably helpful. Fevers usually don't need treatment. The average body temperature is 98.6 F (37 C). But normal body temperature can range between 97 (36.1) and 99 (37.2) or more. Your body temperature can vary depending on how active you are or the time of day. 
Definition. A fever is a temporary increase in your body temperature, often due to an illness. Having a fever is a sign that something out of the ordinary is going on in your body. For an adult, a fever may be uncomfortable, but usually isn't a cause for concern unless it reaches 103 F (39.4 C) or higher. For infants and toddlers, a slightly elevated temperature may indicate a serious infection
1 Intermittent: Temperature either varies from normal to fever levels during a single day, or fever may occur one day and recur in about one to three days. 2  Remittent: Fevers come and go at regular intervals. 3  Hyperpyrexia: Fever that is equal to or above 106.7 F constitutes a medical emergency. Low-grade fevers range from about 100 F-101 F; 102 F is intermediate grade for adults but a temperature at which adults should seek medical care for an infant (0-6 months).
Most people think of a normal body temperature as an oral temperature of 98.6°F (37°C) . This is an average of normal body temperatures. Your temperature may actually be 1°F (0.6°C) or more above or below 98.6°F (37°C) . The body is very good at keeping its temperature within a narrow, safe range in spite of large variations in temperatures outside the body. When you are too hot, the blood vessels in your skin expand (dilate) to carry the excess heat to your skin's surface.
A fever (also termed pyrexia) is a higher-than-normal body temperature. It is a symptom caused by a wide variety of illnesses. Fevers may occur in anyone at any age; however, this article is specifically addressing fever in adults. Every one of us has experienced the wave of chills and exhaustion that a fever causes. Low-grade fevers range from about 100 F-101 F; 102 F is intermediate grade for adults but a temperature at which adults should seek medical care for an infant (0-6 months).
Also, your normal body temperature changes by as much as 1°F (0.6°C) throughout the day, depending on how active you are and the time of day. Body temperature is very sensitive to hormone levels and may be higher or lower when a woman is ovulating or having her menstrual period. The body is very good at keeping its temperature within a narrow, safe range in spite of large variations in temperatures outside the body. When you are too hot, the blood vessels in your skin expand (dilate) to carry the excess heat to your skin's surface.
Consequently, an accurate measurement of body temperature (best is rectal core temperature) of 100.4 F (38 C) or above is considered to be a fever.. A newer option includes a temperature-sensitive infrared device that measures the temperature in the skin by simply rubbing the sensor on the body. Low-grade fevers range from about 100 F-101 F; 102 F is intermediate grade for adults but a temperature at which adults should seek medical care for an infant (0-6 months).