Confidence votes 261K. A raccoon can live for about 5 days without food and water. The actual time depends on the health of the animal and the fat and liquid reserves. Raccoons are very resourceful in scavenging for food. A human can't live without food for 3 or 4 days (however your body type is,) and a human can't live without water for 2 or 3 days. + 13 others found this useful. Trini Salazar. Edit.
Species: Procyon lotor. Size and Weight: The adult raccoon is a medium-sized mammal and the largest of the Procyonidae family. It averages 24 to 38 inches in length and can weigh between 14 to 23 lbs., or more, depending upon habitat and available food. The male raccoon, or boar, is slightly larger than the female, also referred to as sow. Life span: In the wild, a raccoon has a life expectancy of about 2 to 3 years, but in captivity a raccoon can live up to 20 years. Diet: The raccoon is an omnivorous and opportunistic eater, with its diet determined heavily by its environment
Information on this is not consistent. Depending on the sources, raccoons average life-span in the wild is anywhere from 5 to 8 years while it ranges from 8 to 13 years for captive raccoons. Reportedly, there have been cases of raccoons living up to 16 years in the wild and 21 in captivity. [top] How big can raccoons get? Adult raccoons may be anywhere from 24 to 40 inches in length (including 8-12 inches for tail) and weigh 14 to 40 pounds depending upon locale (larger raccoons in the north) and sex (males are larger than females). Average is about 3 feet and 25-30 pounds.
How long can a human live without water How long can human live without food? A human can't live without food for 3 or 4 days (however your body type is,) and a human can't live without water for 2 or 3 days. + 13 others found this useful. Trini Salazar. Edit.
we have a raccoon in our attic and don't know how long it will survive without food and water... 
Raccoons are noted for their intelligence, with studies showing that they are able to remember the solution to tasks for up to three years. The diet of the omnivorous raccoon, which is usually nocturnal, consists of about 40% invertebrates, 33% plant foods, and 27% vertebrates. After a gestation period of about 65 days, two to five young, known as kits, are born in spring. The kits are subsequently raised by their mother until dispersal in late fall. Although captive raccoons have been known to live over 20 years, their life expectancy in the wild is only 1.8 to 3.1 years.
A raccoon can live for about 5 days without food and water. The actual time depends on the health of the animal and the fat and liquid reserves. Raccoons are very resourcefu … l in scavenging for food. William Howe. The purpose of life is to have a life with purpose. They can live at least 10 days with no water, food or new air. At school we had a cockroach in a sealed jar for that long and it was still going strong. it can live for a ye … ar without food and water. 13 people found this useful.
Males have weighed in at over 60 pounds. A raccoon in the wild will probably weigh less than the urbanized raccoon that has learned to live on handouts, pet food, and garbage-can leftovers. As long as raccoons are kept out of human homes, not cornered, and not treated as pets, they are not dangerous.