Homocystinuria due to MTHFR deficiency is caused by mutations in the MTHFR gene. This gene tells the body how to make an enzyme, also called MTHFR. MTHFR is important for a chemical reaction in the body involving forms of the vitamin folate.
The methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) gene contains the DNA code to produce the MTHFR enzyme. This test detects two of the most common mutations. When there are mutations or variations in the MTHFR gene, it can lead to serious genetic disorders such as homocystinuria, anencephaly, spina bifida, and others.
Overview. MTHFR gene mutation is a genetic change that disrupts the production of an enzyme that plays an important role in breaking down the amino acid homocysteine (a building block of protein).
1 Compound Heterozygous: means you have one copy of the 677 mutation from one parent and one copy of the 1298 mutation from the other parent. 2  Triple homozygous mutations (more rare): an example would be one C677T, one A1298C, and a P39P or R594Q, for example.
homocystinuria-caused by mutations in the MTHFR gene. At least 40 mutations in the MTHFR gene have been identified in people with homocystinuria, a disorder in which the body is unable to process certain amino acids properly. Most of these mutations change single amino acids in methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase.
When a person has two copies of the MTHFR C677T gene mutation (homozygous) or one copy of MTHFR C677T and one copy of A1298C (compound heterozygous), decreased MTHFR enzyme activity slows down the homocysteine-to-methionine conversion process and can lead to a buildup of homocysteine in the blood.
The MTHFR gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase. This enzyme plays a role in processing amino acids, the building blocks of proteins.
An abnormal change in gene structure, called a mutation, of the MTHFR gene can cause a disruption of the MTHFR enzyme’s normal function of breaking down homocysteine. The two common MTHFR gene mutations occur at specific locations called “positions” along the gene.
More than one mutation of the MTHFR gene. Genes are passed down by your mother and your father. Most literature states there are a good 40-50 different mutations of this important gene which could be passed down by one, or both or your parents.