are significant, because they are point mutation s in a sequence of DNA that cause a premature stop codon, or a nonsense codon in the transcribed mRNA, resulting in a truncated, incomplete, and usually nonfunctional protein. 
A missense mutation is when the change of a single base pair causes the substitution of a different amino acid in the resulting protein. This amino acid substitution may have no effect, or it may render the protein nonfunctional. A single base pair substitution that results in the translation of a different amino acid at that position. Definition from: GeneReviews from the University of Washington and the National Center for Biotechnology Information.
Nonsense mutation: A mutation (a change) in a base in the DNA that prematurely stops the translation (reading) of messenger RNA (mRNA) resulting in a polypeptide chain that ends prematurely and a protein product that is truncated (abbreviated) and incomplete and usually nonfunctional. 
It differs from a missense mutation, which is a point mutation where a single nucleotide is changed to cause substitution of a different amino acid. Some genetic disorders, such as thalassemia and DMD, result from nonsense mutations. Suppose that a nonsense mutation was introduced at the fourth triplet in the DNA sequence (CGA) causing the cytosine to be replaced with thymine, yielding TGA in the DNA sequence. Since TGA is transcribed-then-translated as UGA, the resulting transcript and protein product would be:
nonsense mutation. A nonsense mutation is a genetic mutation in a DNA sequence that results in a shorter, unfinished protein product. DNA is a chain of many smaller molecules called nucleotides. During protein formation, DNA (or RNA) nucleotide sequences are read three nucleotides at a time in units called codons, and each codon corresponds to a specific amino acid or stop signal (stop codon).
A nonsense mutation is a point mutation that introduces a premature stop codon into the part of the gene that encodes a protein. A stop codon is like a period at the end of a sentence: it instructs the ribosome to stop making the protein. Example of a Nonsense Mutation. This diagram shows an example of a nonsense mutation. Under 'No mutation,' you can see that the normal DNA sequence at this locus is TTC, which is transcribed to the sequence AAG in the messenger RNA. AAG normally codes for the amino acid lysine at the protein level
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In genetics, a nonsense mutation is a point mutation in a sequence of DNA that results in a premature stop codon, or a nonsense codon in the transcribed mRNA, and in a truncated, incomplete, and usually nonfunctional protein product. Suppose that a nonsense mutation was introduced at the fourth triplet in the DNA sequence (CGA) causing the cytosine to be replaced with thymine, yielding TGA in the DNA sequence. Since TGA is transcribed-then-translated as UGA, the resulting transcript and protein product would be:
Nonsense mutation. Definition. noun. A form of point mutation resulting in a nonsense codon that does not code for an amino acid and leads to a protein product that is early truncated. Supplement. In nonsense mutations, the protein product from a sequence of DNA with a nonsense mutation is prematurely truncated, incomplete and often nonfunctional. Genetic disease such as Duchenne muscular dystrophy is caused by a nonsense mutation in gene responsible for a specific protein, for example, dystrophin.
Thus, nonsense mutations occur when a premature nonsense or stop codon is introduced in the DNA sequence. When the mutated sequence is translated into a protein, the resulting protein is incomplete and shorter than normal. DNA is a chain of many smaller molecules called nucleotides. During protein formation, DNA (or RNA) nucleotide sequences are read three nucleotides at a time in units called codons, and each codon corresponds to a specific amino acid or stop signal (stop codon).