DNA profiling uses repetitive (repeat) sequences that are highly variable, called variable number tandem repeats (VNTRs), in particular short tandem repeats (STRs). VNTR loci are very similar between closely related humans, but are so variable that unrelated individuals are extremely unlikely to have the same VNTRs. Each person’s DNA contains two copies of these markers—one copy inherited from the father and one from the mother. Within a population, the markers at each person’s DNA location could differ in length and sometimes sequence, depending on the markers inherited from the parents.
Microsatellites are often referred to as short tandem repeats (STRs) by forensic geneticists, or as simple sequence repeats (SSRs) by plant geneticists. They are widely used for DNA profiling in kinship analysis and in forensic identification. A microsatellite is a tract of repetitive DNA in which certain DNA motifs (ranging in length from 2–5 base pairs) are repeated, typically 5-50 times.
DNA profiling (also called DNA fingerprinting, DNA testing, or DNA typing) is a forensic technique used to identify individuals by characteristics of their DNA. Each person’s DNA contains two copies of these markers—one copy inherited from the father and one from the mother. Within a population, the markers at each person’s DNA location could differ in length and sometimes sequence, depending on the markers inherited from the parents.
A DNA profile is a small set of DNA variations that is very likely to be different in all unrelated individuals, thereby being as unique to individuals as are fingerprints (hence the alternate name for the technique). DNA profiling should not be confused with full genome sequencing. Each person’s DNA contains two copies of these markers—one copy inherited from the father and one from the mother. Within a population, the markers at each person’s DNA location could differ in length and sometimes sequence, depending on the markers inherited from the parents.
As its name implies, an STR contains repeating units of a short (typically three-to four-nucleotide) DNA sequence. The number of repeats within an STR is referred to as an allele. For instance, the STR known as D7S820, found on chromosome 7, contains between 5 and 16 repeats of GATA. Flakes of skin, drops of blood, hair, and saliva all contain DNA that can be used to identify us. In fact, the study of forensics, commonly used by police departments and prosecutors around the world, frequently relies upon these small bits of shed DNA to link criminals to the crimes they commit.
To perform a forensic DNA analysis, DNA is first extracted from a sample. Just one nanogram of DNA is usually a sufficient quantity to provide good data. The region containing each STR is then PCR amplified and resolved according to size, giving an overall profile of STR sizes (alleles). The 13 core STRs vary in length from 100 to 300 bases, allowing even partially degraded DNA samples to be successfully analyzed. Flakes of skin, drops of blood, hair, and saliva all contain DNA that can be used to identify us. In fact, the study of forensics, commonly used by police departments and prosecutors around the world, frequently relies upon these small bits of shed DNA to link criminals to the crimes they commit.
The only difference is the order of the base pairs. Like in fingerprinting, there are so many millions of base pairs in everyone s DNA that every person has a unique sequence. Every person could be identified using the sequence of their base pairs. However, there are so many base pairs in every person that this would be very time consuming. Repeating patterns in DNA allow scientists to use a much shorter method.
Although 99.9% of human DNA sequences are the same in every person, enough of the DNA is different that it is possible to distinguish one individual from another, unless they are monozygotic (identical) twins. Each person’s DNA contains two copies of these markers—one copy inherited from the father and one from the mother. Within a population, the markers at each person’s DNA location could differ in length and sometimes sequence, depending on the markers inherited from the parents.