Komodo Dragon Facts. 1  The Komodo dragon is the largest and heaviest living lizard in the world. 2  Komodo dragons eat almost any kind of meat. 3  Komodo Dragons are easily confused with crocodiles, in fact: They are called the “Ora” or land crocodile by locals. 1 In the wild, there are about 4 times as many male Komodos as females. 2  A Komodo will go through about 4 or 5 sets of teeth in his life. 3  The dragon is able to eat about 80% of its weight in one meal. 4  These dragons can run just as fast as we humans can, up to 11 miles an hour, but they tire quickly.
The Komodo dragon is a vulnerable species and is on the IUCN Red List. There are approximately 4,000 to 5,000 living Komodo dragons in the wild. Their populations are restricted to the islands of Gili Motang (100), Gili Dasami (100), Rinca (1,300), Komodo (1,700), and Flores (perhaps 2,000). The Komodo dragon's diet is wide-ranging, and includes invertebrates, other reptiles (including smaller Komodo dragons), birds, bird eggs, small mammals, monkeys, wild boar, goats, deer, horses, and water buffalo. Young Komodos will eat insects, eggs, geckos, and small mammals.
The Komodo dragon (Varanus komodoensis), also known as the Komodo monitor, is a large species of lizard found in the Indonesian islands of Komodo, Rinca, Flores, Gili Motang, and Padar. The Komodo dragon's diet is wide-ranging, and includes invertebrates, other reptiles (including smaller Komodo dragons), birds, bird eggs, small mammals, monkeys, wild boar, goats, deer, horses, and water buffalo. Young Komodos will eat insects, eggs, geckos, and small mammals.
Well, it is technically not a Dragon, the name just says 'Dragon' in it because the Komodo Dragon is one of the larger reptiles on Earth. The Komodo dragon is the largest mo … nitor lizard species, but is smaller than crocodiles and alligators, and many large snakes such as pythons and anacondas. Komodo Dragons are not really dragons at all. They're just hyperbolically-named lizards. The tail of a Komodo dragon is usually as long as its body. Its sharp, jagged teeth can be as long as 1cm each, and unlike other lizards, it has a long, forked tongue which is bright yellow. The Komodo dragon has a very dangerous bite.
Well, it is technically not a Dragon, the name just says 'Dragon' in it because the Komodo Dragon is one of the larger reptiles on Earth. The Komodo dragon is the largest mo … nitor lizard species, but is smaller than crocodiles and alligators, and many large snakes such as pythons and anacondas. there are MANY differences between komodo dragons and real dragons. komodo dragon are ten feet in length. a dragon is about 40 feet. a komodo is 3 feet tall. dragons are 20.a … komodo has no wings, spines,horns or spade. a dragons has all of that. theres much more but that some of the basics.
Living on a tiny island called Komodo, the ancestors of these giant lizards were walking the earth in prehistoric times as long as 40 - 60 million years ago. While they can not fly or breathe fire, Komodo Dragons can grow up to ten feet long and weigh as much as four hundred pounds. Armed with razor sharp teeth, the real-life dragon is capable of swalowing up to 80% of its own body weight in one meal. Read on to learn more about the Komodo Dragon. The Komodo dragon is totally carnivorous and eat anything they can overpower. While smaller Komodos have to be content with eggs, lizards, snakes and rodents, the larger ones hunt deer, wild pigs, water buffalos and even horses.
The Komodo dragon (Varanus komodoensis) is a species of lizard that lives in the Indonesian islands of Komodo, Rincah, Flores, Gili Motang, and Gili Dasami. It is the largest living lizard. They grow to an average length of 2–3 meters (approximately 6.5–10 ft) and weigh around 70kg (154 pounds). Komodo dragons are carnivores, which means that they eat meat. Although they eat mostly dead animals they will also catch live animals as prey. When prey goes by a Komodo dragon, it will suddenly charge at the animal and bite or claw the belly or the throat.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by M08321. Confidence votes 25. No. they are not able to fly. Komodo Dragons are not like the dragons you hear or see in movies. they cannot fly. An actual flying dragon is a myth. The tail of a Komodo dragon is usually as long as its body. Its sharp, jagged teeth can be as long as 1cm each, and unlike other lizards, it has a long, forked tongue which is bright yellow. The Komodo dragon has a very dangerous bite.
Komodo dragons are the world's largest lizards. They live on the islands of Komodo, Rinca and other tiny surrounding islands, and on the westernmost part of Flores Island in Indonesia. Komodo is west of Flores, east of Sumbawa, and north of Sumba. If you are an ordinary person, you can only reach Komodo by boat. Otherwise, the bites sustained by the victim will generally kill it eventually, and the dragons will then eat the carrion. You can find the excellent video, Wild Discovery: Dragons of Komodo, at Discovery Store. Komodo dragons are a kind of monitor lizard. Their scientific name is Varanus komodoensis.
1 The Komodo dragon is the largest and heaviest living lizard in the world. 2  Komodo dragons eat almost any kind of meat. 3  Komodo Dragons are easily confused with crocodiles, in fact: They are called the “Ora” or land crocodile by locals. 4  They are able to grow as long as 10 feet and weigh about 300 pounds. 1 In the wild, there are about 4 times as many male Komodos as females. 2  A Komodo will go through about 4 or 5 sets of teeth in his life. 3  The dragon is able to eat about 80% of its weight in one meal. 4  These dragons can run just as fast as we humans can, up to 11 miles an hour, but they tire quickly.