A localhost is, put plainly, the standard hostname given to the address assigned to the loopback network interface. Translated into an IP address, a localhost is always designated as 127.0.0.1. This may be overwhelming, so let's look at what these things mean. Used this way, the hostname is called a domain name. An example of using a hostname this way would be: hostname.domain. In short, hostname is the nickname that is given to a device connected to a computer network.
In common usage today, hostname refers specifically to the FQDN that comprises the name of the host, a period, and the domain name. The domain name is composed of labels that begin with the top-level domain and are arranged right to left for the second and, possibly, third level labels. To summarize, a hostname is a Fully Qualified Domain Name that uniquely and absolutely names a computer. It is composed of the host name and the domain name. The domain name in turn is one or more domain labels that place the computer in the DNS naming hierarchy.
IP Address Hostname Lookup. IP: This Hostname Lookup tool often referred to as hostname lookup does exactly what it says....it looks up the Hostname of the IP Address you enter. A simple, yet very effective tool for getting the host name information you need. 
1) In Internet protocol specifications, the term host means any computer that has full two-way access to other computers on the Internet. A host has a specific local or host number that, together with the network number, forms its unique IP address. If you use Point-to-Point Protocol to get access to your access provider, you have a unique IP address for the duration of any connection you make to the Internet and your computer is a host for that period. In this context, a host is a node in a network
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In network addressing, the host address, or the host ID portion of an IP address, is the portion of the address used to identify hosts (any device requiring a Network Interface Card, such as a PC or networked printer) on the network. Example: Your local network has an address of 192.168.1.0 /30 (using CIDR notation for this subnet or in other words with subnet mask 255.255.255.252). Your network ID is the first 30 bits, in bold below.
Each TCP/IP host is identified by a logical IP address. This address is unique for each host that communicates by using TCP/IP. Each 32-bit IP address identifies a location of a host system on the network in the same way that a street address identifies a house on a city street.
The network ID, by contrast, is the portion of the address that refers to the network itself. Example: Your local network has an address of 192.168.1.0 /30 (using CIDR notation for this subnet or in other words with subnet mask 255.255.255.252). Your network ID is the first 30 bits, in bold below. The host portion is the last two bits
An example of IPv4 address is 216.3.128.12, which is the IP address previously assigned to iplocation.net. An IPv4 address is divided into two parts: network and host address. The network address determines how many of the 32 bits are used for the network address, and remaining bits for the host address. The host address can further divided into subnetwork and host number. 