Grapefruits are widely cultivated in China, United States particularly Florida, California and other semi tropical southern states .The fruit has a slightly thick and tough skin than that of oranges and inside, the flesh is segmented like oranges. 
Grapefruit nutrition facts. Refreshing and delicious grapefruit is rich in phytonutrients like lycopene, vitamin A, and beta-carotene. The fruit is well known as fruit from the paradise for its unique health-promoting as well as disease preventing properties especially among the health-conscious, fitness enthusiasts. Grapefruit is oblate in shape, ranges in diameter from 3 to 5 inches and can weigh up to 150 g. Characteristically, it has thick, tough skin than that in the oranges. Inside, the fruit is segmented into arils as in other citrus fruits.
Tart and tangy with an underlying sweetness, grapefruit has a juiciness that rivals that of the ever popular orange and sparkles with many of the same health promoting benefits. Although available throughout the year, they are in season and at their best from winter through early spring. Grapefruit is an excellent source of vitamin C, a vitamin that helps to support the immune system. Vitamin C-rich foods like grapefruit may help reduce cold symptoms or severity of cold symptoms; over 20 scientific studies have suggested that vitamin C is a cold-fighter.
Grapefruits usually range in diameter from four to six inches, with some varieties featuring seeds while others are seedless. The wonderful flavor of a grapefruit is like paradise, just as its Latin name Citrus paradisi connotes. It is juicy, tart and tangy with an underlying sweetness that weaves throughout. Grapefruit is an excellent source of vitamin C, a vitamin that helps to support the immune system. Vitamin C-rich foods like grapefruit may help reduce cold symptoms or severity of cold symptoms; over 20 scientific studies have suggested that vitamin C is a cold-fighter.
Grapefruits have a rather recent history, having been discovered in Barbados in the 18th century. Many botanists think the grapefruit was actually the result of a natural cross breeding which occurred between the orange and the pomelo, a citrus fruit that was brought from Indonesia to Barbados in the 17th century. Grapefruit is an excellent source of vitamin C, a vitamin that helps to support the immune system. Vitamin C-rich foods like grapefruit may help reduce cold symptoms or severity of cold symptoms; over 20 scientific studies have suggested that vitamin C is a cold-fighter.
Rich in Vitamin C. Being a member of the citrus family, grapefruit is also a great source of vitamin C, the great immune system supporter. As such, it is recommended against the common cold, for many studies have indicated that vitamin C relieves the severity of cold symptoms. Named for the way the fruit hangs in bunches (like grapes), the grapefruit is a nutritious member of the citrus family. It comes from sunny Barbados and is thought to be the result of the natural cross pollenization between the orange and the Asian pomelo.
Grapefruit growing in the grape-like clusters from which their name derives. The evergreen grapefruit trees usually grow to around 5–6 meters (16–20 ft) tall, although they can reach 13–15 m (43–49 ft). The leaves are glossy dark green, long (up to 15 centimeters (5.9 in)) and thin. It produces 5 cm (2 in) white four-petaled flower
Grapefruit is a citrus fruit. People use the fruit, oil from the peel, and extracts from the seed as medicine. Grapefruit seed extract is processed from grapefruit seeds and pulp obtained as a byproduct from grapefruit juice production. Vegetable glycerin is added to the final product to reduce acidity and bitterness. In food and beverages, grapefruit is consumed as a fruit, juice, and is used as a flavoring component. In manufacturing, grapefruit oil and seed extract are used as a fragrance component in soaps and cosmetics; and as a household cleaner for fruits, vegetables, meats, kitchen surfaces, dishes, etc.
The grapefruit (Citrus × paradisi) is a subtropical citrus tree known for its sour to semi-sweet fruit. The evergreen grapefruit trees usually grow to around 5–6 meters (16–20 ft) tall, although they can reach 13–15 m (43–49 ft).