While most pups are considered adults when they reach 1 year old, the fact is, dog breeds mature at slightly different rates, and not all dogs are full-grown on their first birthday. Small breeds reach adult size more quickly; some larger breeds may not be fully grown until around 2 years of age. Large and giant breeds, those over 80 pounds, may reach their full size between 18 months and 2 years old. If your puppy is still a youngling but you want to get an idea of what size he'll be as an adult, you can estimate his adult weight by doubling his weight at 4 months old, recommends PetEducation.com.
The aging profile of dogs varies according to their adult size (often determined by their breed): smaller dogs often live over 15–16 years, medium and large size dogs typically 10 to 13 years, and some giant dog breeds such as mastiffs, often only 7 to 8 years. 
Medium breeds, those weighing up to 80 pounds as adults, may reach their adult size between 12 and 16 months of age, according to the Cesar's Way website. Large and giant breeds, those over 80 pounds, may reach their full size between 18 months and 2 years old. If your puppy is still a youngling but you want to get an idea of what size he'll be as an adult, you can estimate his adult weight by doubling his weight at 4 months old, recommends PetEducation.com.
A lot depends on the breed. Smaller dogs tend to mature faster, but I wouldn't consider a puppy to be an adult until they're at least a year and a half, maybe even 2. Usually, they're considered teenagers from about 6 - 18 months. deelberger · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. It does depend on the breed, with the larger breeds taking longer to mature. Usually, by one year of age, they have become an adult. However, with large breeds like German Shepherds, it can be up to two years before they are fully grown. gayfavo
· just now. Report Abuse. A dog is considered an adult at 6 months of age. When they reach 6 months of age, they can then be neutered or spayed, and all puppy vaccinations have been finished. At the age of 6 months, he is considered by medical science to be approx 3.5 years old in human years. Both answers depend on the breed. A lot of dogs show puppy-like behavior for up to 5 years, despite their bodies being an adult size. Your best bet would be to check out the breed of dog you have (or breeds if you have a mix). There's plenty of information on the net.
It Depends on the Breed. Your vet is the best person to ask if your pooch still is a a puppy or not, but there are some things you can consider on your own. Dogs reach maturity somewhere between 12 and 18 months, according to PAWS Companions, a Washington-based animal shelter. There isn’t an exact time when Bandit suddenly is an adult – it’s not like when you turn 18 and magically get grownup privileges overnight.
Medium breeds weighing up to 80 pounds as adults, will typically reach their full size between 12 and 16 months of age, while large and giant breeds weighing over 80 pounds, may reach their adult size between 18 months and 2 years old. Majority of people consider a one-year-old puppy to be an adult, however, not all dog breeds mature at the same rate and not all pooches are full grown on their first birthday. Typically, smaller breeds reach their size more quickly than larger breeds.
What age does a puppy become an adult dog? - well, all dogs older than you think. if you say, My dog is 1', she isn't really 1, she would technically be like a year 2, like about 7. All dogs are an adult when they turn 3 years old. Most people think, OMG!!!! OUR DOG IS 7 HONEY!!!!!, and they really think their dog is 7, but really, the dog is like 49. Puppies can produce puppies as soon as they start their first heat at 6 to 8 months of age. But it's very unhealthy for a dog at that age to have puppies. You'll need to wait … until after her third or fourth heat cycle.
After the first 6 months of a dog's life, the dog's understanding of what is good and bad does not stop, but it does seem to slow down quite bit. It is one of the reasons why many consider the time between 6 months and about 2 years the adolescent period of the dog's life. 