Uploaded on Sep 23, 2010. A bench test of how a EPRC PWM charge controller behaves when connected to a 12 or 24 volt battery bank. Included in the video is two Turnegy inline power meters. One clarification: Near the end I commented on the loss in the charge controller. 
The charge controller regulates this 16 to 20 volts output of the panel down to what the battery needs at the time. This voltage will vary from about 10.5 to 14.6, depending on the state of charge of the battery, the type of battery, in what mode the controller is in, and temperature. If there is a voltage drop between the charge controller and the battery, it will raise the controller output slightly to compensate. These are only used when you have a long wire run between the controller and the battery. These wires carry no current, and can be pretty small - #20 to #16 AWG.
A charge controller is an essential part of nearly all power systems that charge batteries, whether the power source is PV, wind, hydro, fuel, or utility grid. Its purpose is to keep your batteries properly fed and safe for the long term. The basic functions of a controller are quite simple. 
A solar charging system is not complete without an appropriate charge controller. Most units include a charge controller to charge 12-volt lead acid batteries and inverter for drawing power. Charge controllers are also available for lithium-ion to charge 10.8V packs (3 sells in series). 
A solar charge controller manages the power going into the battery bank from the solar array. It ensures that the deep cycle batteries are not overcharged during the day, and that the power doesn’t run backwards to the solar panels overnight and drain the batteries. A 12V solar panel can charge a 12V battery. A 24V solar panel or solar array (two 12V panels wired in series) is needed for a 24V battery bank, and 48V array is needed for 48V bank. If you try to charge a 12V battery with a 24V solar panel, you will be throwing over half of the panel’s power away.
Not always, but usually. Generally, there is no need for a charge controller with the small maintenance, or trickle charge panels, such as the 1 to 5 watt panels. A rough rule is that if the panel puts out about 2 watts or less for each 50 battery amp-hours, then you don't need one. If there is a voltage drop between the charge controller and the battery, it will raise the controller output slightly to compensate. These are only used when you have a long wire run between the controller and the battery. These wires carry no current, and can be pretty small - #20 to #16 AWG.
A charge controller, charge regulator or battery regulator limits the rate at which electric current is added to or drawn from electric batteries. It prevents overcharging and may protect against overvoltage, which can reduce battery performance or lifespan, and may pose a safety risk. 
A charge controller, or charge regulator is basically a voltage and/or current regulator to keep batteries from overcharging. It regulates the voltage and current coming from the solar panels going to the battery. If there is a voltage drop between the charge controller and the battery, it will raise the controller output slightly to compensate. These are only used when you have a long wire run between the controller and the battery. These wires carry no current, and can be pretty small - #20 to #16 AWG.
Charging. When you connect the PS4™ system and the controller with a USB cable, the controller's battery is charged. The PS4™ system must be turned on or in rest mode. You can check the charge level of the battery on the screen that is displayed when you press and hold the PS button for at least 1 second.