16 Health Benefits of Lemons: 1. Lemons are alkalizing for the body: Lemons are acidic to begin with but they are alkaline-forming on body fluids helping to restore balance to the body’s pH. 2. Lemons are rich in vitamin C and flavonoids that work against infections like the flu and colds. 3. Your liver loves lemons: “The lemon is a wonderful stimulant to the liver and is a dissolvent of uric acid and other poisons, liquefies the bile,” says Jethro Kloss in his book Back to Eden.
Vitamin B5. Lemons nourish your body with vitamin B5 or pantothenic acid. One lemon contains 0.16 mg of vitamin B5. Dr. J.D. Decuypere states that adults need 5 mg of vitamin B5 per day and women who are pregnant should increase their intake to 6 or 7 mg per day. Vitamin B5 is critical for your metabolic process of food and supports the formation of hormones and good cholesterol. Vitamin C supports your immune system to help fight off diseases and infections. Vitamin C is essential for the synthesis of collagen and a vital structural component of blood vessels, bone, ligaments and tendons.
Citrus fruits like lemons and oranges may provide health benefits including lowering your risk for anemia, cancer, heart disease, high blood pressure and stroke, according to the Foods and Agriculture Organization. The vitamin C contained in citrus fruits is partly responsible for some of these benefits. Add orange slices to your salad or top it with a lemon juice-based salad dressing. Although heat destroys some vitamin C, you can also use marinades containing orange or lemon juice when preparing meat dishes, or use orange slices in the sauce.
A 100-gram serving of orange or lemon provides you with 53 milligrams of vitamin C, which is 88 percent of the daily value of 60 milligrams per day. This serving equals either one small orange or slightly less than two lemons. Add orange slices to your salad or top it with a lemon juice-based salad dressing. Although heat destroys some vitamin C, you can also use marinades containing orange or lemon juice when preparing meat dishes, or use orange slices in the sauce.
Who doesn't like lemonade, and the bright, fresh flavor lemons add to so many dishes? As for the vitamins and minerals, lemons come with infection-fighting vitamin C, as well as thiamin, riboflavin, pantothenic acid, iron, and magnesium, fiber, lots of B vitamins, calcium, potassium, copper, folate, and potassium. Whew! 
One lemon contains 44.5 mg of vitamin C. The A 2 Z of Health, Beauty and Fitness at learninginfo.org explains that because of the high vitamin C content in lemons they may help prevent and treat infections, bring down high fevers and hasten wound healing. Vitamin C supports your immune system to help fight off diseases and infections. Vitamin C is essential for the synthesis of collagen and a vital structural component of blood vessels, bone, ligaments and tendons.
LEMON Overview Information. Lemon is a plant. The fruit, juice, and peel are used to make medicine. Lemon is used to treat scurvy, a condition caused by not having enough vitamin C. Lemon is also used for the common cold and flu, H1N1 (swine) flu, ringing in the ears (tinnitus), Meniere's disease, and kidney stones. 
One lemon contains a full day’s supply of ascorbic acid, or vitamin C, but that’s the whole fruit; the juice holds about a third. Lemon juice is also about 5 percent citric acid, making it a natural for slowing the browning or oxidation of fresh, raw foods: apples, avocados, bananas, and other fruits. 
Lemons provide less calcium, with 26 milligrams compared to 40 milligrams in oranges; less potassium, with 138 milligrams compared to 181 milligrams; less vitamin A, with only 22 international units compared to 225 international units; and less folate, with 11 micrograms compared to 30 micrograms. Add orange slices to your salad or top it with a lemon juice-based salad dressing. Although heat destroys some vitamin C, you can also use marinades containing orange or lemon juice when preparing meat dishes, or use orange slices in the sauce.
One fluid ounce of lemon juice provides 7 calories, 0.1 grams of protein, 0.1 grams of fat, 2.1 grams of carbohydrate (including 0.1 grams of fiber and 0.1 grams of sugar) and 23% of daily vitamin C needs. Pairing foods that are high in vitamin C with foods that are iron-rich will maximize the body's ability to absorb iron. For example, squeeze lemon juice atop a salad with spinach and chickpeas (both a good source of iron).