1 More common freezer-top and side-by-side models can last 17 and 14 years, respectively. 2  Small repairs to things like failed door gaskets or malfunctioning ice makers are expected, but a broken compressor usually signals the end for a fridge. 1 Small repairs to things like failed door gaskets or malfunctioning ice makers are expected, but a broken compressor usually signals the end for a fridge. 2  Washer, 10-14 years, and Dryer, 10-13 years: The life of a laundry machine is completely dependent on how often it’s run.
What is the average lifespan of a refrigerator? Even though refrigerators are classified as durable goods, they don't last forever and generally have a lifespan of only 8-14 years. Whether it makes more sense to repair or replace an old model depends on how good it is, and how new it is.
1 Refrigerator, 13-19 years: The top end of this life expectancy range belongs exclusively to increasingly rare single-door refrigerator units. 2  More common freezer-top and side-by-side models can last 17 and 14 years, respectively. 1 Small repairs to things like failed door gaskets or malfunctioning ice makers are expected, but a broken compressor usually signals the end for a fridge. 2  Washer, 10-14 years, and Dryer, 10-13 years: The life of a laundry machine is completely dependent on how often it’s run.
Average Life Expectancy. Refrigerators with freezers have average lifespans of 14 to 17 years, according to the National Association of Realtors. But freezers can last an average 16 years. 
Just knowing that the microwave is going to die after only 10 years, or that you need to budget for a replacement for your gas range after about 20, helps plan for the inevitable expense. And if you are buying used appliances, it´s a good indicator of how long you can expect a five-year-old top-loading washer to last. Most appliances and small electrical products have fairly predictable life expectancies. Depending on the original cost, manufacturing quality, and how heavily it´s used, an appliance may last a longer or shorter period than shown in the following table.
Average Life Expectancy. The average life expectancy for a properly maintained refrigerator is between 14 and 17 years, depending on model and size. Compact refrigerators typically run for 14 years on average, while a standard refrigerator will run up to 17 years. The life expectancy of your refrigerator is affected by how well it is cared for and its construction. Some models may last only about 10 years, while others may run for up to 19 years.
Average length of ownership of currently owned refrigerators is 8.5 years and average useful lifetime of refrigerators is 14 years (NFO 1996; AHAM 2001). It appears rare for households to own a full-size refrigerator for the full duration of the product’s physical lifetime of over 20 years. According to a report in 2001 by the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers (AHAM), the average length of ownership of currently owned full-size refrigerators is 8.8 years for new units and 8.2 years for used units.
1 Washer, 10-14 years, and Dryer, 10-13 years: The life of a laundry machine is completely dependent on how often it’s run. 2  A family average of eight loads a week will yield an average of a (low) double-digit life. 3  And type doesn’t have a huge effect –front-loaders and top-loaders both have their own problems. 1 Small repairs to things like failed door gaskets or malfunctioning ice makers are expected, but a broken compressor usually signals the end for a fridge. 2  Washer, 10-14 years, and Dryer, 10-13 years: The life of a laundry machine is completely dependent on how often it’s run.