“Halos” literally means “salt” in Greek. Halotherapy, better known as salt therapy, is the therapeutic use of natural salt in a simulated microclimate, like a salt room or halochamber, which simulates the effects of actual salt mines. Speleotherapy is the therapeutic use of salt caves to treat particular ailments. In a salt cave, salt is at a high concentration in the air creating this therapeutic environment. Many have traveled to Eastern Europe and other parts of the world to take part in this alternative therapy.
Salt Therapy aka Halotherapy is a powerful, natural treatment in a controlled air medium that simulates the natural salt cave microclimate to treat respiratory and skin conditions. This is no health fad – from the ancient Greeks to modern-day doctors, medical experts have championed its amazing effects. There are two ways salt therapy is commonly sold: the first is by placing large amounts of salt or salt bricks in a room. The reason this treatment method is not effective is not enough salt can evaporate into the room with the right particle sizes for the different conditions being treated.
Salt therapy is thought to be beneficial for respiratory and skin conditions. The Salt Sanctuary. Salt therapy is a modern variation of the Eastern European tradition of spending time in natural salt caves for health. Polish physician Dr. Boczkowski was the first to record the health benefits of salt caves in 1843, after observing the good health of salt miners in the Wieliczka salt mines near Krakow. The Benefits of Salt Therapy. Those who advocate salt therapy attribute the benefits to the fact that it is a sterile environment, without pathogens like bacteria and viruses, allergens. Any microorganism that makes it into the cave cannot survive because of the salt.
Since the days of Egypt’s Queen Cleopatra salt therapies have been known to have therapeutic benefits. Whether dipping themselves in the Dead Sea or taking treks into Eastern European salt caves, sufferers of many different respiratory and skin ailments have benefitted from the restorative powers of salts. Speleotherapy is the therapeutic use of salt caves to treat particular ailments. In a salt cave, salt is at a high concentration in the air creating this therapeutic environment. Many have traveled to Eastern Europe and other parts of the world to take part in this alternative therapy.
Salt therapy, also known as Halotherapy is a drug free, non invasive treatment that alleviates the health problems associated with asthma, sinusitis, allergies, and a host of other respiratory illnesses. 
Salt therapy, also known as Halotherapy, is a drug-free, non-invasive treatment that alleviates the health problems associated with asthma, allergies, sinusitis, bronchitis, and a host of other respiratory illnesses. 
What is Salt Therapy. Salt Therapy, also known as Halotherapy, is a medically proven natural and non-invasive therapy that helps relieve congestion, inflammation and allergies of the airways and skin. Salt therapy relieves the symptoms of the sufferer's condition by cleansing the airways and skin and works in conjunction with the sufferers prescribed medication. By relieving the symptoms of a condition, medication will also become more effective resulting in better management and stronger relief of the conditio
Salt Therapy is the process of breathing dry, micronized salt particles in the form of salt air. These micronized salt particles can travel to the smallest and deepest areas of the lungs. Salt Therapy is a safe, effective complementary tool that can be used in addition to a physician's recommendations for skin and respiratory care. It provides a natural way to cleanse and maintain skin and respiratory system from the inside out.