Magaluf is in the municipality of Calvia calvià and is situated within a group of, towns Primarily torrenova And Palma. nova The twin resorts of Magaluf and Palma Nova are the largest resort developments of the municipal district of Calvia, calvià and are situated on the'island s south west coast at the western end of the Huge Palma, bay approximately 15 (kilometres 9) miles From, palma and The Son Sant Joan international. airport
Magaluf. Magaluf and the neighbouring resort of Palma Nova are situated in the Calvia district on the Balearic island of Mallorca. Situated to the south west of the island, around 15 kilometres from Palma and the Son Sant Joan Airport. Magaluf at the height of the season is definitely not for the faint hearted, but if you are looking for an action-packed, non-stop party resort, then you will have the holiday of your lifetime.
Magaluf. Magaluf is a purpose built resort in Majorca popular with Britons as a stag-weekend or package-holiday destination for visitors looking for sun, sea and sex (although not necessarily in that order). As a purpose built holiday resort, Magaluf has an extensive choice of places to say, though much of the budget accommodation is in poor condition. 1  HSM Atlantic Park Hotel (HSM Atlantic Park), Calderon de la Barca, 2 - 07180 Magaluf, ☎ +34 971 130 600 (fax: +34 971 249 607), [7]. 2  Sol y Vera, [8].
Magaluf is in the municipality of Calvia calvià and is situated within a group of, towns Primarily torrenova And Palma. Nova Son Sant Joan – Airport'majorca s main – airport is 24 (kilometres 15) mi From. magaluf The twin resorts of Magaluf and Palma Nova are the largest resort developments of the municipal district of Calvia, calvià and are situated on the'island s south west coast at the western end of the Huge Palma, bay approximately 15 (kilometres 9) miles From, palma and The Son Sant Joan international. airport
The Palma Nova resort is located just North of Magaluf and is approximately a seven-minute drive from the centre of Magaluf. Magaluf consists of a white sandy beach and the Magaluf strip, which is the centre for the main nightlife and restaurants. The twin resorts of Magaluf and Palma Nova are the largest resort developments of the municipal district of Calvia, calvià and are situated on the'island s south west coast at the western end of the Huge Palma, bay approximately 15 (kilometres 9) miles From, palma and The Son Sant Joan international. airport
Magaluf Description & Magaluf Information. Magaluf is often spelt as Magalluf or Magaluff by the he brits. Magaluf has everything – from fashionable shops to fantastic sights. Its the perfect resort for those who want fun, sun and to party till dawn. Nightlife in Magaluf is extrovert
Situated just 15km, or 10 short miles, from Mallorcas' impressive international airport, Magaluf and Palma Nova are two bustling holiday resorts that are located at the western end of the magnificent Bay of Palma, in the municipal district of Calvia. Welcome to Magaluf and Palma Nova-the web site dedicated exclusively to the popular holiday resorts in the south-west of Mallorca.
Magaluf is part of the municipality of Calvia calvià and is located within a group of towns which Includes Palma nova And. Torrenova the resort caters for young people and couples as well as, families with peak season During july And. august The twin resorts of Magaluf and Palma Nova are the largest resort developments of the municipal district of Calvia, calvià and are situated on the'island s south west coast at the western end of the Huge Palma, bay approximately 15 (kilometres 9) miles From, palma and The Son Sant Joan international. airport
Majorca’s best-known resort, on the southwest coast of the island, has been drawing holidaymakers for 40 years. The recipe is simple – a palm-dotted beach and just about every kind of attraction going, from the Western Water Park to the House of Katmandu. Around 30 minutes’ drive from Magaluf is Palma, Majorca’s chic capital. The old town is a cat’s cradle of alleyways, and the star attraction, the Gothic cathedral, Sa Seu, towers over a glitzy marina which really comes to life after sundown.