The New Chitose Airport (Sapporo) is the best gateway airport for Niseko. You can use one of our flight search engines to compare different airlines and routes to find a flight that suits you. Also see our travel to Hokkaido page for advice on flights to the New Chitose Airport (Sapporo) and getting to Hokkaido. From New Chitose airport a rapid train takes about 35 minutes to Sapporo. A train from Sapporo to Otaru takes from 32 to 50 minutes, and then a train to Kutchan takes between 1 hour and 1:20 hours. Niseko station is a further 15-20 minutes on from Kutchan.
Niseko (ニセコ町, Niseko-chō) is a town located in Abuta District, Shiribeshi Subprefecture, Hokkaido, Japan. To the Japanese people, Niseko principally refers to a mountain range and a municipal area. Niseko is located in the southwestern part of Hokkaido. The nearest airport is New Chitose Airport. Japan Rail Hokkaido Taxis Limousines Rental vehicles are some of the many options available to get people to Niseko. The journey from the Airport takes around 2 hours and 30 minutes.
Bus transfer is the most convenient and economical way to get from Sapporo to Niseko (either from Sapporo New-Chitose airport or the city). The bus takes about 2.5-3 hours depending on road conditions and your drop off point. From New Chitose airport a rapid train takes about 35 minutes to Sapporo. A train from Sapporo to Otaru takes from 32 to 50 minutes, and then a train to Kutchan takes between 1 hour and 1:20 hours. Niseko station is a further 15-20 minutes on from Kutchan.
By bus. From December to March, multiple bus companies, including Hokkaido Chuo Bus, Niseko Bus, Good Sports Whiteliner and Hokkaido Access Network, run direct buses between hotels in Sapporo 's city center and Niseko. Some buses also serve Sapporo Station. By train. There are infrequent local and rapid train connections between Sapporo and Kutchan Stations, most of which require a transfer of trains at Otaru. With a direct Niseko Liner rapid train or a favorable transfer at Otaru, the one way trip takes about 100 minutes and costs 1840 yen.
Hokkaido Resort Liner provides the cheapest options for Sapporo to Niseko bus transport with drop off points in Hirafu, Annupuri or Niseko Village. From the bus drop-off points you may be able to walk to your accommodation, some accommodations provide a free pick-up service, or you can get a taxi or shuttle bus. From New Chitose airport a rapid train takes about 35 minutes to Sapporo. A train from Sapporo to Otaru takes from 32 to 50 minutes, and then a train to Kutchan takes between 1 hour and 1:20 hours. Niseko station is a further 15-20 minutes on from Kutchan.
Niseko Resort is about 100 km southwest of Sapporo city and Sapporo New-Chitose airport, about a 2.5 hour drive. Niseko is near Mount Yōtei, the Mt. Fuji of Hokkaido. Hirafu is the largest of the Niseko villages, located about 9km from the town of Kutchan. From New Chitose airport a rapid train takes about 35 minutes to Sapporo. A train from Sapporo to Otaru takes from 32 to 50 minutes, and then a train to Kutchan takes between 1 hour and 1:20 hours. Niseko station is a further 15-20 minutes on from Kutchan.
The ski resort of Moiwa is also interconnected, but a separate lift ticket is required for this resort. Niseko is located in Hokkaido Japan, 100km southwest of Sapporo and the New-Chitose International Airport. Niseko is situated near Mt Yōtei (the Mt. Fuji of Hokkaido) in a perfect spot to capture all the snow. A shuttle bus or a door-to-door transfer is the best way to get to Niseko from either Sapporo or the airport. See the Niseko travel page for more information or you can book your Niseko airport shuttle here. 
Hide. Marvel at the sights, revel in the sounds, and soak up the local atmosphere: When you book a room at the best Sapporo hotels near Niseko Mountain Resort Grand Hirafu, you’ll be in the top spot to do it all. Very Nice hotel at a very reasonable rate. In the heart of Sapporo, with excellent access to central sites in the city. There is a high-quality restaurant on the 26th floor which is a bit expensive but worth it.