Invert sugar syrup or inverted sugar syrup is the most popular among the artificial sweeteners, which is widely used in bakery, confectionery, fruit processing and other parts of food industry, as well as in pharmaceutical industry. Invert syrup is an equimolecular mixture of glucose and fructose. 
Liquid sugar-Includes liquid sugar and liquid invert sugar, which are predominantly produced in industrial quantities for use by food manufacturers. Specialty sugars-Includes Demerara-style, 'Plantation Raw', Organic, and Golden Syrup. An extended list of some of the types of sugar are listed below. 1  Brown Sugar. 
A simple way to get other types of sugar into the mix is to invert the sucrose (the basic white sugar you know well) by adding an acid to the recipe. Acids such as lemon juice or cream of tartar cause sucrose to break up (or invert) into its two simpler components, fructose and glucose. 
It is unlike a syrup which is just made from dissolving sugar into water and heating it – we use an inverted syrup. Sugars are made up of carbons, hydrogens and oxygen atoms – the different types of sugars are based on the different configurations of these atoms. In the conversion of sugar and water to an invert syrup, the sucrose molecule divides into the glucose segments which acquire the oxygen (O) that connected the two halves and the H+ (hydron) ion of the water (H2O) molecule; the fructose segment gets the OH- (hydroxide) ion.
What's a good substitute for inverted sugar? If you don't have inverted sugar in the pantry, use honey as a substitute. Glucose or corn syrup will not perform the same and are not acceptable substitutes in all cases, but both invert sugar and glucose can be used to help prevent simple crystallization in cooked syrups. Invert Sugar: Invert sugar, or inverted sugar, helps to reduce, prevent or control the build up, or the beginning of, crystallization, and with its hygroscopic properties it also helps to increase the overall shelf life of bakery items.
How to prevent ice crystals from forming in sorbet. Inverted or invert sugar is a mixture of glucose and fructose; it is obtained by splitting sucrose into these two components. The mixture is sold as a viscous liquid and is often referred to as trimoline or invert syrup. 
Invert sugar-Sucrose can be split into its two component sugars (glucose and fructose). This process is called inversion, and the product is called invert sugar. Commercial invert sugar is a liquid product that contains equal amounts of glucose and fructose. Commercial liquid invert sugars are prepared as different mixtures of sucrose and invert sugar. For example total invert sugar is half glucose and half fructose, while 50% invert sugar (half of the sucrose has been inverted) is one-half sucrose, one-quarter glucose and one-quarter fructose.
Inverted sugar (also called invert sugar) is a syrup that is made that up of glucose and fructose. It is sweeter than ordinary sugar and it is less inclined to crystallize. It has a slightly different taste and is very useful in certain types of cooking and food processing. 
Inverted or invert sugar syrup is a mixture of glucose and fructose; it is obtained by splitting sucrose into these two components. Compared with its precursor, sucrose, inverted sugar is sweeter and its products tend to retain moisture and are less prone to crystallization. 1 Candi sugar is a type of invert sugar used in the brewing of Belgian-style beers to boost alcohol content without drastically increasing the body of the beer; it is frequently found in the styles of beer known as dubbel and tripel.