Side Effects of Calendula. To learn more about treating common medical conditions at home, try the following links: When looking for an herbal remedy to treat skin or wounds, think flower power -- or, more specifically, calendula. Its flowers, and occasionally its leaves, can be used to treat a variety of afflictions in different ways. Calendula has a long history of use as a wound-healing and skin-soothing botanical. 
Calendula (calendula officinalis) is a member of the compositae family. Many plants in this family have health benefits, like chamomile, dandelion, arnica, golden rod, and sunflowers. Lettuce and endive are also from this botanical family. The key feature of this family is flowers with ray petals. There are several ways to preserve the goodness of calendula blossoms. Drying the blossoms is the easiest way, but dried flowers will preserve the goodness of calendula for only a year. By preserving it in other ways, you can extend this shelf life from a year to up to 5 years.
Calendula is a plant. The flower is used to make medicine. Calendula flower is used to prevent muscle spasms, start menstrual periods, and reduce fever. It is also used for treating sore throat and mouth, menstrual cramps, cancer, and stomach and duodenal ulcers. 1 Early research suggests that applying a specific gel (Estromineral Gel, Rottapharm-Madaus) that contains calendula, Lactobacillus sporogenes, isoflavones, and lactic acid to the vagina for 4 weeks reduces symptoms of vaginal atrophy such as vaginal itching, burning, dryness, and pain during intercourse. 2  Leg ulcers.
Traditional and ancient uses [edit]. Calendula species have been used traditionally as culinary and medicinal herbs. The petals are edible and can be used fresh in salads or dried and used to color cheese or as a replacement for saffron. A yellow dye has been extracted from the flowers. Calendula has been used traditionally for abdominal cramps and constipation. In experiments with rabbit jejunum, the aqueous-ethanol extract of C. officinalis flowers was shown to have both spasmolytic and spasmogenic effects, thus providing a scientific rationale for this traditional use.
• CALENDULA (noun). The noun CALENDULA has 1 sense: 1. any of numerous chiefly annual herbs of the genus Calendula widely cultivated for their yellow or orange flowers; often used for medicinal and culinary purposes. Familiarity information: CALENDULA used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details.
Calendula Bloom. © TheFarmingWife.com. Calendula,(calendula officinalis) is both beautiful and easy to grow, Calendula should be included in any herb gardener's list of must haves. Also known as pot marigold, this is a wonderful plant for the cooler regions as it tolerates lower temperatures well. Calendula is an annual
Calendula oil is distilled from the flower tops and is quite sticky and viscous. It has a very strange smell described as musky, woody, and even rotten – like the marigold flowers themselves. This smell does not readily appeal to many individuals, even in when used in a remedy. Put your desired amount of dried calendula petals in a clean, dry glass jar. Fill the jar with your carrier oil of choice to cover the petals by an inch. Put in a sunny place to infuse for four weeks. Drain the petals from the oil and store the oil in a container with a lid for up to one year.
1 Anal tears (anal fissures). 2  Early research suggests that that applying calendula to the affected area may reduce pain in people with anal tears who do not respond to treatment with sitz baths and the medication nifedipine. 1 Early research suggests that applying a specific gel (Estromineral Gel, Rottapharm-Madaus) that contains calendula, Lactobacillus sporogenes, isoflavones, and lactic acid to the vagina for 4 weeks reduces symptoms of vaginal atrophy such as vaginal itching, burning, dryness, and pain during intercourse. 2  Leg ulcers.
Calendula (/kəˈlɛndjuːlə/), or pot marigold, is a genus of about 15–20 species of annual and perennial herbaceous plants in the daisy family Asteraceae. They are native to southwestern Asia, western Europe, Macaronesia, and the Mediterranean. Calendula has been used traditionally for abdominal cramps and constipation. In experiments with rabbit jejunum, the aqueous-ethanol extract of C. officinalis flowers was shown to have both spasmolytic and spasmogenic effects, thus providing a scientific rationale for this traditional use.