In English, the name Alexa means-Helper, defender. variant of Alexander.. Other origins for the name Alexa include-English, Greek.The name Alexa is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-Helper, defender. variant of Alexander.
Compare To: See the name popularity of Alexa since 1880 and compare it to other names in both chart and table forms. View Alexa popularity trends, and how the popularity of Alexa has changed over time. 
Alexa Internet, Inc. is a California-based company that provides commercial web traffic data and analytics. It is a wholly owned subsidiary of Amazon.com. Founded as an independent company in 1996, Alexa was acquired by Amazon in 1999. 
Bringing Information Into Focus. Alexa provides the right insights to make smarter decisions. Digital Marketers Alexa Pro gives you a complete understanding of your audience and industry trends, insights to optimize SEO/SEM, and tools to benchmark against competitors. 
Etymology & Historical Origin-Alexa. Alexa is a short form of Alexandra which is the female equivalent to Alexander, from the Greek Alexandros (αλεξανδρος). Alexander essentially translates to “Defender of Men” from the Greek elements “alexein” (to defend) and “andros” (man) in a relationship or possessive form. Popularity of the Name Alexa. The name Alexa, as a stand-alone name (versus a pet name or nickname), is one of the newer variations of Alexandra, showing up for the first time on the female popularity charts in 1973.
1: vote up - 0: vote down. bad smelling bad hair dude good girl hella lovey. 1: vote up - 0: vote down. pretty awsome adorable sweet my name is alexa!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!and it also means stuning. 1: vote up - 0: vote down. My name is Alexa and my self-esteem is lacking,but I wanna be a vet someday.
More About Chinese Name: Alexa. Alexa is a feminine name meaning defender of man, with its origins in the Greek language. Short form of Alexandra or feminine form of Alexis. Alexa name is Short from of Alexandra or feminine from of Alexis.The name was borne in Greek mythology as an epithet from the goddess Hera. 
Alexa is a very popular first name for females (#1227 out of 4276, Top 29%) and also a very popular last name for both adults and children (#48196 out of 150436, Top 32%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Alexa for girls. Alexa /al-exa/ [3 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Greek and Old German derivation, and the meaning of Alexa is man's defender; noble. Alexa is a variant transcription of Alexandra (Greek): Latinate feminine variant of Alexander.
Popularity of the Name Alexa. Below you will find the popularity of the baby name Alexa displayed annually, from 1880 to the present day in our name popularity chart. Hover over or click on the dots that represent a year to see how many babies were given the name for that year, for both genders, if available. 