Beneficial Pests. Fava beans typically require between 75-85 days after germination for harvest as a shell bean. Unlike most other types of beans, favas are not tolerant of heat and sunlight. They should be sown in spring or fall, and will grow best with temperatures consistently between 40-70F. Beans generally do not respond well to transplanting, and are usually direct sown around or just after the last spring frost. The most important point about growing beans is not to plant them too early. They will rot in cool, damp soil. Even so, many beans require a long growing season of 80 days or more.
Broad beans are an ancient favourite with evidence of cultivation from as early as 6,000 BC. Easy to grow, high in protein and rich in vitamin C they're still a must for today's vegetable plot. 1 Sowing broad beans under cover can give more reliable germination especially if you have trouble with frozen soil or pests like mice. 2  Sow one per 7cm (3in) pot filled with multi-purpose compost. 3  Water in and place in a cool but frost-free place. 4  Avoid heated rooms or hot greenhouses as they will fail to germinate
(They can also be started in spring and harvested through summer.) They are unaffected by cold conditions and clay soils, but are susceptible to rust, a fungal disease of the leaves. Fava beans grow as rigid, upright plants from 2 to 5 feet tall and often require staking as they mature. The young leaves are pale green, tender and delicious. Yes, you can eat them! (And unlike the beans, which are a chore to prep, fava leaves are ready to eat right off the plant. 
Broad beans are planted much the same way you would grow other types of beans. You can speed up germination by soaking the seeds in water for an hour, before sowing. Direct sow the seeds about 2 deep, spaced 4-6 apart. Thin the seedlings to 8 – 12, because crowding can encourage diseases. Growing TipsFava-Bean-Flowers.jpg: Soil: Broad beans grow best in a soil with a neutral soil pH in the range of 6.2 to 6.8. They don't mind cool soil, but it shouldn't be water logged or soggy.
I’m excited! If you have never grown fava beans before, here is how to do it: Brief description: Fava Beans are also known as Broad Beans, Field Beans or Windsor Beans. The beans are sweet, sized like a lima bean, and best when harvested and grown in early spring. Where to Plant Fava Beans: Fava Beans are a cool season plant. They can be planted in garden beds, raised beds and containers. Planting Seeds: Seeds must be soaked for 12-24 hours before sowing. Then sow seeds 1″ deep.
Broad beans require a 75 – 80 day growing season, depending on the variety. However in mild climates, they can be planted in the fall and allowed to grow slowly through the winter, for a spring harvest. Pick the pods when they feel full. Since you'll be eating them fresh, don't wait until the pods start to dry. Growing TipsFava-Bean-Flowers.jpg: Soil: Broad beans grow best in a soil with a neutral soil pH in the range of 6.2 to 6.8. They don't mind cool soil, but it shouldn't be water logged or soggy.
The broad bean is a bushy, hardy annual that can grow from 3 to 4½ feet tall. The broad bean has square stems with leaves divided into leaflets. Pods are 6 to 8 inches long and contain 4 to 6 flat, oval seeds that can be white, yellow, green, or pinkish-red. Broad beans will grow in temperatures as low as 40°F. They require 80 to 100 days to reach harvest.. In mild-winter regions sow broad beans in early autumn for winter or spring harvest.
Broad beans, unlike snap beans, will not set pods in warm weather. Sow broad beans in early spring as soon as the soil can be worked. Broad beans will grow in temperatures as low as 40°F. They require 80 to 100 days to reach harvest.. In mild-winter regions sow broad beans in early autumn for winter or spring harvest. They will not produce in the summer’s heat
How to sow seeds under cover. 1  Sowing broad beans under cover can give more reliable germination especially if you have trouble with frozen soil or pests like mice. 2  Sow one per 7cm (3in) pot filled with multi-purpose compost. 3  Water in and place in a cool but frost-free place. 1 Sowing broad beans under cover can give more reliable germination especially if you have trouble with frozen soil or pests like mice. 2  Sow one per 7cm (3in) pot filled with multi-purpose compost. 3  Water in and place in a cool but frost-free place. 4  Avoid heated rooms or hot greenhouses as they will fail to germinat