Simon /si-mon/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced SYE-mun. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Simon is to hear, listen; reputation. Biblical: Simon was the name of two of the apostles, including Simon Peter. A common name from the Middle Ages through the 18th century. Orchestra conductor Simon Rattle; Latin American freedom fighter Simon Bolivar. 
[ 2 syll. si-mo-ne, sim-one ] The baby girl name Simone is also used as a boy name, though it is far more popular for girls. It is pronounced as Siy-M OW N- †. Simone is of Hebrew origin. It is used mainly in English, French, and German. The meaning of Simone is 'she who hears, God has heard'. It is a biblical name derived from the word shama which is of the meaning 'to hear'. The name was first adopted by English speakers in the 20th century. Simone is the feminine form of the English, French, German, and Spanish Simo
Simone is rather popular as a baby girl name. The name increased in popularity from the 1950s up to the 1980s. Its usage peaked modestly in 1988 with 0.042% of baby girls being named Simone. It was #311 in rank then. The baby name has slipped in popularity since then. In 2012, it ranked at #656 with a usage of 0.022%. The meaning of Simone is 'she who hears, God has heard'. It is a biblical name derived from the word shama which is of the meaning 'to hear'. The name was first adopted by English speakers in the 20th century.
Simone is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Si-mone. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 728 in baby name popularity for girls with 381 occurrences. It ranked 9426 in popular baby names for boys with 8 occurrences. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Simone in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Simone in Nautical Flags page.
American Meaning: The name Simone is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Simone is: Heard. Greek Meaning: The name Simone is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Simone is: Snub-nosed. Hebrew Meaning: The name Simone is a Hebrew baby name. In Hebrew the meaning of the name Simone is: Loud.
Confidence votes 14.8K. Simone means 'beautiful' in old spanish language The girl's name Simone, also used as boy's name Simone, is pronounced see-mohn, sih-MOHN. It is of Hebrew origin, and its meaning is hear, listen. 
Greek Meaning: The name Simon is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Simon is: Snub-nosed. Can also be a variant of a Hebrew name meaning 'hear; listen.' In the bible Simon was the name of two apostles including Simon Peter. Hebrew Meaning: The name Simon is a Hebrew baby name. 
Simone /si-mone/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less commonly as boys' name Simone) is pronounced see-mohn, sih-MOHN. It is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Simone is hear, listen. Feminine of Simon. Used outside of France from the middle of the 20th century. Actress Simone Signoret; writer Simone de Beauvoir; gymnast Simona Amanar. Simone is a very prominent first name for women (#711 out of 4276, Top 17%) and also a very prominent last name for all people (#4607 out of 150436, Top 3%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Simone for girls.
Origin of the name Simone: Feminine form of Simon, which is a borrowing from the Ecclesiastic late latin. The name is derived from the Hebrew Shimon, a derivative of shim'ōn (heard). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 