Tesla reveals jobs, salaries for its gigafactory. Tesla details gigafactory positions, salaries in application to state of Nevada. Tesla plans to have 6,500 employees by its eighth year and stay at that level through its 10th year, although Tesla CEO Elon Musk also stated that employment could grow upwards of workers in an interview with Fox Business News. Initial projections had the gigafactory being fully operational by 2017.
Test Engineers at Tesla Motors do not see much in the way of financial compensation and represent one of the lower-paid positions (approximately $84K on average) at the company. Skills. When it comes to skills, Embedded / Real-Time / RTOS seems to bolster pay the most; employees who claim proficiency also enjoy a median income of $118K annually. A common skill in Tesla Motors' work force is Engineering Design; between a fifth and a fourth of survey participants report using it on the job.
Full-time staffing for the gigafactory will comprise of: 1  4,550 production associates paid $22.79 per hour. 2  200 material handlers paid $22.79 per hour. 3  460 equipment technicians paid $27.88 per hour. Tesla plans to have 6,500 employees by its eighth year and stay at that level through its 10th year, although Tesla CEO Elon Musk also stated that employment could grow upwards of workers in an interview with Fox Business News. Initial projections had the gigafactory being fully operational by 2017.
REUTERS/Stephen Lam. Working at a company as ambitious as Tesla is no easy task. It's a demanding and even intimidating atmosphere, as Ashlee Vance illustrates in his new book,  Elon Musk: Tesla, SpaceX, and the Quest for a Fantastic Future .. But all that hard work is compensated well. Here's a look at some of the highest paying jobs at Tesla based on salaries posted by employees and former employees on career site Glassdoor. (Note: We only included jobs with at least five reviews. All figures refer to base salaries without bonuses.)
Tesla Motors is a automobile firm headquartered in San Carlos, Calif. that hires for Mechanical Engineer positions, Manufacturing Engineer roles, and more. The median salary at Tesla Motors is $90K annually. How long you've been working primarily drives compensation; however, where you live and your role at the company are also reported as secondary influences on salary at Tesla Motors. Skills. When it comes to skills, Embedded / Real-Time / RTOS seems to bolster pay the most; employees who claim proficiency also enjoy a median income of $118K annually. A common skill in Tesla Motors' work force is Engineering Design; between a fifth and a fourth of survey participants report using it on the job.
The average tesla motors salary ranges from approximately $30,000 per year for Production Associate to $90,000 per year for Store Manager. Salary information comes from 34 data points collected directly from employees, users, and jobs on Indeed. 