Believe it or not the Leaning Tower of Pisa was not designed to lean. Construction began in the 1173 and it wasn't completed until 1372! That's a whopping 199 years! Very early on the engineer realised that the tower was beginning to lean, and despite their best efforts the tower continued to tilt as the build continued. 
It is situated behind the Cathedral and is the third oldest structure in Pisa's Cathedral Square (Piazza del Duomo) after the Cathedral and the Baptistery. The tower's tilt began during construction, caused by an inadequate foundation on ground too soft on one side to properly support the structure's weight. The height of the tower is 55.86 metres (183.27 feet) from the ground on the low side and 56.67 metres (185.93 feet) on the high side. The width of the walls at the base is 2.44 m (8 ft 0.06 in). Its weight is estimated at 14,500 metric tons (16,000 short tons)
The tower of Pisa has been leaning so long -- nearly 840 years -- that it's natural to assume it will defy gravity forever. But the famous structure has been in danger of collapsing almost since its first brick was laid. It began leaning shortly after construction began in 1173. Builders had only reached the third of the tower's planned eight stories when its foundation began to settle unevenly on soft soil composed of mud, sand and clay. As a result, the structure listed slightly to the north.
The Early Years. The construction of the Tower of Pisa began on August 9, 1173. Originally designed to be a bell tower, the tower actually stood upright for over 5 years, but just after the completion of the third floor (1178) it began to lean. The citizens of Italy were shocked as it began to lean ever so slightly. The Leaning Tower is the third oldest building on Pisa's Piazza del Duomo (cathedral square), the Cathedral and Baptistry were first. Utilizing many columns and archs, this tower represents an advanced understanding of weight and load characteristics, showing the Italian architectures' knowledge.
The leaning tower of Pisa is part of the Cathedral Square in Pisa, Tuscany, Italy, which is a UNESCO world heritage site. Originally it was built as a bell tower (campanile) for the cathedral. The tower has leaned almost since construction started, due to faulty foundation and weak subsoil. History of the Tower. Construction of the tower (in Italian: Torre pendente di Pisa) started in 1173, when the city of Pisa was prosperous. This makes it the third oldest structure of the Cathedral Square (Piazza del Duomo) in Pisa.
The Leaning Tower of Pisa is a marble bell tower at Pisa, Italy. Even though the tower has been leaning since it was under construction, it has stood for hundreds of years, despite the fact that it looks as if it might fall any minute. The tower was begun over 800 years ago, in 1173, and after the first three of its eight stories were built, the ground started to sink, and the tower began to lean. It has continued leaning, a millimeter each year, and now leans 14 feet out of line.
The tower of Pisa may be the most famous leaning structure, but it's by no means unique. Pisa's soft soil has caused problems for other towers, including the nearby Campanile (or bell tower) of San Nicola and the Campanile of San Michele degli Scalzi. 
The leaning of the Tower of Pisa comes into the story in 1173, when construction began. Thanks to the soft ground, it had begun to lean by the time its builders got to the third story, in 1178. Shifting soil had destabilized the tower’s foundations. The construction of the Leaning Tower of Pisa began in august 1173. It was interrupted several times by wars, debt and while engineers worked on solutions to correct the lean.
The Leaning Tower of Pisa is a freestanding bell tower located in the city of Pisa in Italy. Like its name suggest, it actually does lean to one side. The tower started to lean during construction because the foundation was built on soft ground that had difficulty supporting the weight. It was built as a freestanding bell tower for the cathedral in Pisa. On the side where the tower is lower because of the lean it stands at 187.27 feet. On the high side of the tower it stands at 186 feet. The tower weighs about 14,500 tons.