A gluten free diet removes much of the grain-based products from a person's diet. If that person suffers from gluten intolerance, doing this could improve their health significantly. However, some parents wonder if removing a whole food group is safe to do for their child. Your Child Has Gluten Allergies. If tests come back that show your child does have celiac disease, choosing a gluten free diet is the best ways to improve their health. There is no cure for celiac disease, so if your child tests positive, it will require eliminating gluten from their diet for the rest of the lives.
There are many reasons parents consider putting a child on a gluten-free diet, including mood swings, eczema and autism spectrum disorders. But if you think your child might have celiac disease or a severe gluten intolerance, it’s important to have him tested before changing his diet. Do it as a family. Going gluten-free with your child, at least for the first month, can ease the transition to a new diet, Dorfman said. “You don’t want the child to feel like something’s wrong with him,”
Whether it’s for diagnosed celiac disease or suspected gluten sensitivity, many parents are switching their children to gluten-free diets. Busy parents might feel overwhelmed by the thought of a big dietary overhaul for kids already picky about food (and change in general). Do it as a family. Going gluten-free with your child, at least for the first month, can ease the transition to a new diet, Dorfman said. “You don’t want the child to feel like something’s wrong with him,”
To reduce a child's symptoms of autism, parents often try alternative treatments such as specialized diets. Lately, the gluten-free/ casein-free diet has grown in popularity. Some parents report improvements in autism symptoms with this dietary regimen. The benefit of a gluten-free/casein-free diet is based on the theory that children with autism may have an allergy or high sensitivity to foods containing gluten or casein. Children with autism, according to the theory, process peptides and proteins in foods containing gluten and casein differently than other people do.
Little research has been done, though, on the gluten-free/ casein-free diet for autism. Consequently, many parents wonder whether this diet really does, in fact, make a difference in the symptoms of children with autism. The benefit of a gluten-free/casein-free diet is based on the theory that children with autism may have an allergy or high sensitivity to foods containing gluten or casein. Children with autism, according to the theory, process peptides and proteins in foods containing gluten and casein differently than other people do.
Definition. A gluten-free diet is a diet that excludes the protein gluten. Gluten is found in grains such as wheat, barley, rye, and a cross between wheat and rye called triticale. A gluten-free diet is primarily used to treat celiac disease. Gluten causes inflammation in the small intestines of people with celiac disease. The gluten-free diet is a treatment for celiac disease. Some people who don't have celiac disease also may have symptoms when they eat gluten, however. This is called non-celiac gluten sensitivity. People with non-celiac gluten sensitivity may benefit from a gluten-free diet.
Gluten Free Diet Risks. While a gluten free diet improves the health of children with celiac disease, most gluten free diets miss one key element which is fortification. If you remove gluten from your child's diet, you also remove the nutrients from grain products their body needs. Your Child Has Gluten Allergies. If tests come back that show your child does have celiac disease, choosing a gluten free diet is the best ways to improve their health. There is no cure for celiac disease, so if your child tests positive, it will require eliminating gluten from their diet for the rest of the lives.
— A strict gluten-free diet is the only treatment for celiac disease. Eating even small amounts of gluten can cause intestinal damage, allowing symptoms to return. Following a gluten-free diet requires adjustments for both parents and children. Celiac disease is a condition that causes a variety of symptoms like diarrhea, weight loss, bloating, stomach pain, and a lack of appetite. These symptoms occur because the immune system responds abnormally to a protein found in certain foods, like wheat, rye, barley, and prepared foods (table 1).
Kid-friendly recipes. Gluten, which is found in grains such as wheat, barley, and rye, can cause health problems for people who have a sensitivity to the protein. If your child has a gluten intolerance, celiac disease, or is sticking to a gluten-free diet for other reasons, it can be tricky to come up with tasty meals. That's why we love The Gluten-Free Cookbook, which has kid-friendly recipes for breakfast, lunch, and more. Here are some great gluten-free lunch recipes