Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: DNA is like the instruction manual of a cell It comprises of a long string of code (A,G,T,C) which tells the cell what cell it has to be, what functions it must perform, etc etc. A lot... store information, these information give intructions to all other cells and tell them what to do in your body. Also, half of your DNA will pass on to your offsprings.
DNA actually has several functions. For example, DNA stores the genetic material of an organism. It also replicates itself when it divides. the DNA is the genetic material of a cell it is what makes each cell unique. 1  Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is the genetic code which ensures that daughter cells inherit the same characteristics as the parent cells. A: replication   A: dna cells give direnctions to the nucleius and plans what yo … ur going to function all your life   A: The DNA of a cell acts as instructions for all the processes of a cell. Basically it is a spiral of information that the cell uses for everything.
The function of DNA in a cell is to code the way proteins turn genes on or off.   A: replication   A: dna cells give direnctions to the nucleius and plans what yo … ur going to function all your life   A: The DNA of a cell acts as instructions for all the processes of a cell. DNA cells uses this information to make  the proteins or RNA the cell needs. It also provides the  information needed to make a new living cell. The DNA is the most  important thing in the cell, all the living organisms use DNA to  keep the information; its like a computer.
DNA also contains all the genetic coding which is used to control functions, behavior and development of an organism. DNA is also used as a long term storage device to store the genetic instructions. These instructions must be correct so the DNA can make an exact copy of itself. The function of DNA in a cell is to code the way proteins turn genes on or off. the function of DNA is to make the proteins. DNA is the foundation of life. A: replication   A: dna cells give direnctions to the nucleius and plans what yo … ur going to function all your life   A: The DNA of a cell acts as instructions for all the processes of a cell. Basically it is a spiral of information that the cell uses for everything.
The answer is c.. However, DNA is a molecule found within a cell. It is not actually a cell itself. The most important role that DNA plays is that it serves as the blueprint for an organism. Part of that blueprint is the instructions of what proteins to make and also in what order to put them in. Source(s): Bio class
DNA is made up of molecules called nucleotides. Each nucleotide contains a phosphate group, a sugar group and a nitrogen base. The four types of nitrogen bases are adenine (A), thymine (T), guanine (G) and cytosine (C). The order of these bases is what determines DNA's instructions, or genetic code. Similar to the way the order of letters in the alphabet can be used to form a word, the order of nitrogen bases in a DNA sequence forms genes, which in the language of the cell, tells cells how to make proteins. Deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA is a molecule that contains the instructions an organism needs to develop, live and reproduce. These instructions are found inside every cell, and are passed down from parents to their children.
The function of DNA in a cell is to code the way proteins turn genes on or off. 1  Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is the genetic code which ensures that daughter cells inherit the same characteristics as the parent cells. 2  DNA is the code from which all protein is synthesised. DNA cells uses this information to make  the proteins or RNA the cell needs. It also provides the  information needed to make a new living cell. The DNA is the most  important thing in the cell, all the living organisms use DNA to  keep the information; its like a computer.
DNA contains the biological and genetic instructions that control the day-to-day function of your cells. DNA is like a blueprint, containing the directions necessary to construct other components of cells, such as proteins and RNA (ribonucleic acid). The instructions are passed down to you through inheritance. 
RNA cells   The RNA cells are in the nucleolus. RNA cells stores and transfers  information that is needed for the making of proteins.    DNA cells   They are … found in the Nucleus. The DNA cells are the most important  element in the cell, all the living organisms use DNA to keep the  information. DNA cells uses this information to make  the proteins or RNA the cell needs. It also provides the  information needed to make a new living cell. The DNA is the most  important thing in the cell, all the living organisms use DNA to  keep the information; its like a computer.