The story of dimethyl sulfoxide, or DMSO, is an unusual one. A by-product of the paper-making process, it was discovered in Germany in the late 19th century. The colorless liquid gained notoriety for its ability to penetrate the skin and other biological membranes. The most reported side effect of DMSO is more of a nuisance (especially if you have a date lined up) than a concern. DMSO can cause a strong garlic-like taste in the patient’s mouth for several hours after application. Patients might even give off a garlic-like odor from their skin for up to 72 hours.
Abstract. Dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO), a by-product of the wood industry, has been in use as a commercial solvent since 1953. It is also one of the most studied but least understood pharmaceutical agents of our time--at least in the United States. Yet in the United States, DMSO has Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approval only for use as a preservative of organs for transplant and for interstitial cystitis, a bladder disease.
Related Topics. DMSO (dimethyl sulfoxide) is a colorless, slightly oily liquid that is primarily used as an industrial solvent. 1  Reliable and relatively consistent scientific data showing a substantial health benefit. 2  Contradictory, insufficient, or preliminary studies suggesting a health benefit or minimal health benefit. 
In this article. DMSO, or dimethyl sulfoxide, is a by-product of paper making. It comes from a substance found in wood. DMSO has been used as an industrial solvent since the mid-1800s. 
DMSO is a polar aprotic solvent and is less toxic than other members of this class, such as dimethylformamide, dimethylacetamide, N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone, and HMPA. DMSO is frequently used as a solvent for chemical reactions involving salts, most notably Finkelstein reactions and other nucleophilic substitutions. Illustrative is the complex dichlorotetrakis(dimethyl sulfoxide)ruthenium(II) (RuCl 2 (dmso) 4). In this complex, three DMSO ligands are bonded to ruthenium through sulfur. The fourth DMSO is bonded through oxygen. In general, the oxygen-bonded mode is more common.
Dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) is an organosulfur compound with the formula (CH3) 2 S O. This colorless liquid is an important polar aprotic solvent that dissolves both polar and nonpolar compounds and is miscible in a wide range of organic solvents as well as water. It has a relatively high melting point. Illustrative is the complex dichlorotetrakis(dimethyl sulfoxide)ruthenium(II) (RuCl 2 (dmso) 4). In this complex, three DMSO ligands are bonded to ruthenium through sulfur. The fourth DMSO is bonded through oxygen. In general, the oxygen-bonded mode is more common.
This condition causes inflammation in the bladder. To treat it, doctors usually either inject DMSO into the bloodstream, or flush it directly into the bladder via catheter. It’s also available in pill form and as a topical lotion. The most reported side effect of DMSO is more of a nuisance (especially if you have a date lined up) than a concern. DMSO can cause a strong garlic-like taste in the patient’s mouth for several hours after application. Patients might even give off a garlic-like odor from their skin for up to 72 hours.
8 Reviews. 8 Reviews. Dimethyl sulfoxide is used to treat pain and swelling caused by bladder or urinary conditions including cystitis (bladder inflammation or irritation). Dimethyl sulfoxide will not treat a bladder infection. Dimethyl sulfoxide may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. Follow all directions on your medicine label and package. Tell each of your healthcare providers about all your medical conditions, allergies, and all medicines you use.
Dimethyl sulfoxide is a purified preparation used in the bladder to relieve the symptoms of the bladder condition called interstitial cystitis. A catheter (tube) or syringe is used to put the solution into the bladder where it is allowed to remain for about 15 minutes. Then, the solution is expelled by urinating. 