Subterranean water is a natural solution containing more than 60 chemical elements, chiefly K, Na, Ca, Mg, Fe, Al, Cl, S, C, Si, N, O, H, as well as microorganisms, which oxidize and reduce various substances. As a rule, subterranean water is saturated with gases, including CO 2, O 2, N 2, and C 2 H 2. In certain instances, subterranean water causes the formation of swamps, flooding, landslides, or ground subsidence under engineering works. It may also hinder mining excavation and mining operations in shafts and open pits.
Groundwater is the water found underground in the cracks and spaces in soil, sand and rock. It is stored in and moves slowly through geologic formations of soil, sand and rocks called aquifers. 
Subterranean water containing specific components, either gases or trace constituents, is used for medicinal purposes and as beverages. In certain instances, subterranean water causes the formation of swamps, flooding, landslides, or ground subsidence under engineering works. It may also hinder mining excavation and mining operations in shafts and open pits.
UNDERGROUND WATER. UNDERGROUND WATER. Underground water includes all water that occurs below the earth's surface, occupying interstices or voids of pervious rocks and soil; like surface water qv, it is derived principally from precipitation that falls upon the earth's surface and percolates downward under gravity. 
Underground Water = Ground Water. Ground water is simply water under the ground where the soil is completely filled or saturated with water. This water is also called an aquifer.. Ground water moves underground from areas where the elevation is high, like a hilltop, to places that are lowland areas. Water movement is slow and might move anywhere from less than a millimeter up to a mile in a day
Groundwater (or ground water) is the water present beneath Earth 's surface in soil pore spaces and in the fractures of rock formations. A unit of rock or an unconsolidated deposit is called an aquifer when it can yield a usable quantity of water. The depth at which soil pore spaces or fractures and voids in rock become completely saturated with water is called the water table. Groundwater is recharged from, and eventually flows to, the surface naturally; natural discharge often occurs at springs and seeps, and can form oases or wetlands. The upper level of this saturated layer of an unconfined aquifer is called the water table or phreatic surface. Below the water table, where in general all pore spaces are saturated with water, is the phreatic zone. Substrate with low porosity that permits limited transmission of groundwater is known as an aquitard.
In the USSR subterranean water is divided according to its use into household-drinking, technical, industrial, mineral, and thermal water. Household-drinking water is fresh water that has certain taste qualities and does not contain substances and microorganisms harmful to man. In certain instances, subterranean water causes the formation of swamps, flooding, landslides, or ground subsidence under engineering works. It may also hinder mining excavation and mining operations in shafts and open pits.
The study of water flow in aquifers and the characterization of aquifers is called hydrogeology. Related terms include aquitard, which is a bed of low permeability along an aquifer, and aquiclude (or aquifuge), which is a solid, impermeable area underlying or overlying an aquifer. 
Underground Water = Ground Water Ground water is simply water under the ground where the soil is completely filled or saturated with water. This water is also called an aquifer.. Ground water moves underground from areas where the elevation is high, like a hilltop, to places that are lowland areas. Water movement is slow and might move anywhere from less than a millimeter up to a mile in a day.
Subterranean water is part of the earth’s resources. The total reserves of subterranean water exceed 60 million cu km. Subterranean water is regarded as a mineral. In contrast to other types of minerals, the reserves of subterranean water are replenished in the process of exploitation. In certain instances, subterranean water causes the formation of swamps, flooding, landslides, or ground subsidence under engineering works. It may also hinder mining excavation and mining operations in shafts and open pits.