A displacement reaction is one in which an element or group is displaced from a chemical compound by another element or group. In single displacement reactions, the more reactive element displaces the less reactive one. Single displacement reactions include the replacement of a metal in a salt with a more reactive metal. For example, iron will displace copper from a copper sulfate solution because it is more reactive: Fe+ CuSO 4 4. This type of reaction can be used for metal plating.
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Displacement Reaction Definition: A displacement reaction is a type of reaction where part of one reactant is replaced by another reactant. Single displacement reactions are reactions where one reactant replaces part of the other. AB + C → AC + B. 
Due to the free state nature of A and B, all single displacement reactions are also oxidation-reduction reactions, where the key event is the movement of electrons from one reactant to another. When A and B are metals, A is always oxidized and B is always reduced. All simple metal with acid reactions are single displacement reactions. For example the reaction between magnesium, Mg, and hydrochloric acid, HCl, forms magnesium chloride, MgCl 2, and hydrogen, H 2.
A single-displacement reaction, also named single-replacement reaction, is a type of oxidation-reduction chemical reaction when an element or ion moves out of one compound and into another-that is, one element is replaced by another in a compound. This is represented by the general reaction scheme: All simple metal with acid reactions are single displacement reactions. For example the reaction between magnesium, Mg, and hydrochloric acid, HCl, forms magnesium chloride, MgCl 2, and hydrogen, H 2.
Ad. The well known thermite reaction, in which powdered aluminum is used to displace a metal from a compound, usually an oxide, is an example of a displacement reaction between solids. In its most common form, iron is produced by the reaction of aluminum with iron III oxide: Fe 2 O 3 2 O 3. Single displacement reactions include the replacement of a metal in a salt with a more reactive metal. For example, iron will displace copper from a copper sulfate solution because it is more reactive: Fe+ CuSO 4 4. This type of reaction can be used for metal plating.
Share. A single displacement reaction or substitution reaction is a common and important type of chemical reaction. A substitution or single displacement reaction is characterized by one element being displaced from a compound by another element. A + BC → AC + B. An example of a substitution reaction occurs when zinc combines with hydrochloric acid. 
The noun DISPLACEMENT REACTION has 1 sense: 1. (chemistry) a reaction in which an elementary substance displaces and sets free a constituent element from a compound. Familiarity information: DISPLACEMENT REACTION used as a noun is very rare. 
A single-displacement reaction, also known as a single-replacement reaction, is a type of chemical reaction where an element reacts with a compound and takes the place of another element in that compound. This type of reaction is typically pictured like this: Here, A replaces B in the compound BC. 