Cellular respiration takes place in the same way in both plants and animals. Living cells obtain the products of photosynthesis (sugar molecules) and undergo cellular respiration to produce ATP molecules. Some cells respire aerobically, using oxygen, while others undergo anaerobic respiration, without using oxygen. ☞ Cellular respiration occurs at all times. ☛ Photosynthesis involves conversion of one type of energy into another: light energy into chemical energy. ☞ Cellular respiration involves using that chemical energy and breaking it down to release energy.
☞ Cellular respiration takes place in the cytoplasm and mitochondria of the cell. ☛ Photosynthesis uses water, sunlight, and CO 2 from the atmosphere to create glucose molecules, and releases oxygen as a by-product. ☞ Cellular respiration occurs at all times. ☛ Photosynthesis involves conversion of one type of energy into another: light energy into chemical energy. ☞ Cellular respiration involves using that chemical energy and breaking it down to release energy.
Cellular respiration is the process of oxidizing food molecules, like glucose, to carbon dioxide and water. C6H12O6 + 6O2 + 6H2O → 12H2O + 6 CO2. The energy released is trapped in the form of ATP for use by all the energy-consuming activities of the cell. 1  glycolysis, the breakdown of glucose to pyruvic acid. 2  the complete oxidation of pyruvic acid to carbon dioxide and water.
Cellular respiration is the process of breaking down food molecules to obtain energy and store it in the form of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) molecules. Plant cells, after creating sugar molecules through photosynthesis, undergo cellular respiration to create ATP molecules. Animals obtain food molecules from plants and other organisms, and then undergo cellular respiration to obtain ATP molecules. ☞ Cellular respiration occurs at all times. ☛ Photosynthesis involves conversion of one type of energy into another: light energy into chemical energy. ☞ Cellular respiration involves using that chemical energy and breaking it down to release energy.
light dependent phase-converts light energy into chemical energy-ATP; results in the splitting of water molecules and the release of oxygen light independent phase-energy from light dependent phase is used to make glucose and more ATP. 
The product of photosynthesis is a carbohydrate, such as the sugar glucose, and oxygen which is released to the atmosphere. All of the sugar produced in the photosynthetic cells of plants and other organisms is derived from the initial chemical combining of carbon dioxide and water with sunlight. All organisms on earth depend on photosynthesis, in which light energy is used to make sugar and other food molecules from carbon dioxide and water.
Cellular respiration is a series of set of metabolic reactions and processes. These reactions takes place in the cells of organisms, where the organisms convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate. Catabolic reactions are involved in respiration, where large molecules are broken into smaller ones, releasing energy in the process.
Organisms capable of photosynthesis produce food molecules like carbohydrates. There are many forms of cellular respiration. Some organisms require oxygen to carry out respiration known as aerobic cellular respiration and the respiration that does not require presence of oxygen is called anaerobic cellular respiration. These reactions takes place in the cells of organisms, where the organisms convert biochemical energy from nutrients into adenosine triphosphate. Catabolic reactions are involved in respiration, where large molecules are broken into smaller ones, releasing energy in the process.
In Plants 1) photosynthesis creates glucose molecules (instead of eating) → 2) this fuels cellular respiration in the plant cells → 3) creates ATP → 4) fuels plant growth and reproduction → 5) provides carbohydrates to animals for their cellular respiration. The cycle continues. In those tiny organelles, one molecule of glucose with 6 molecules of oxygen are changed into 36 molecules of ATP – the energy cells can use to get things done. Cellular respiration is going on in every cell in both animals and plants.
1 Photosynthesis – The process of capturing light energy and converting it to sugar energy, in the presence of chlorophyll using carbon dioxide and water. 2  Respiration – The process of metabolizing (burning) sugars to yield energy for growth, reproduction, and other life processes. In photosynthesis, the plant uses water and nutrients from the soil, and carbon dioxide from the air with the sun’s energy to create photosynthates. Oxygen is releases as a byproduct. Figure 2.