Education. To land an entry-level job, zoologists and wildlife biologists need a bachelor's degree in zoology, wildlife biology, ecology, animal science or environmental studies. Key classes include anatomy, wildlife management, cellular biology and ecology.
Find out how to become a certified wildlife biologist. Research the education and training requirements, and learn about the experience you need to advance your career in wildlife biology.
The Wildlife Society grants certification to wildlife biologists after they meet the organizations rigorous education and experience requirements. The path to certification typically includes a minimum of a bachelor's degree and at least five years of practical experience.
Internships allowing a prospective Wildlife Biologist to gain experience are often available through colleges. The Wildlife Society, www.joomla.wildlife.org, offers the Certified Wildlife Biologist (CWB) credential to biologists with appropriate education and five years of experience.
To become a wildlife biologist, you need to begin by earning a Bachelor of Science degree in biology or a closely related field such as environmental science or zoology.
After fulfilling the minimum requirements, you can apply to the Wildlife Society to become a Certified Wildlife Biologist. The process includes a detailed application review, submission of college transcripts and professional references, and paying a fee.
Wildlife Biologist Career Summary. Wildlife biology is the field that studies wild animals and their habitats. A Wildlife Biologist may survey eagle populations or study the migratory flights of birds. Wildlife Biologists study diseases, behaviors, origins and life processes of wild animals.
A Wildlife Biologist may work with wild animals such as birds, fish, and mammals, or with environments such as wetlands and prairies. Wildlife Biologists work for governmental agencies or private groups such as the Conservancy.
Wildlife biology is the field that studies wild animals and their habitats. A Wildlife Biologist may survey eagle populations or study the migratory flights of birds.