Syndromes Caused by Nondisjunction. Most of the time when fertilization involves gametes with an abnormal number of chromosomes, the resulting cell will not survive to produce a new individual. However, there are some cases in which individuals do survive. 
Although it is possible to inherit some types of chromosomal abnormalities, most chromosomal disorders (such as Down syndrome and Turner syndrome) are not passed from one generation to the next. Some chromosomal conditions are caused by changes in the number of chromosomes. These changes are not inherited, but occur as random events during the formation of reproductive cells (eggs and sperm). An error in cell division called nondisjunction results in reproductive cells with an abnormal number of chromosomes. 
Definition of Nondisjunction. Nondisjunction: Failure of paired chromosomes to separate (to disjoin) during cell division, so that both chromosomes go to one daughter cell and none go to the other. Nondisjunction causes errors in chromosome number, such as trisomy 21 (Down syndrome) and monosomy X (Turner syndrome). 
1. Human disorders due to chromosome alterations in autosomes (Chromosomes 1-22). There only 3 trisomies that result in a baby that can survive for a time after birth; the others are too devastating and the baby usually dies in utero. A. Down syndrome (trisomy 21): The result of an extra copy of chromosome 21. Nondisjunction occurs when either homologues fail to separate during anaphase I of meiosis, or sister chromatids fail to separate during anaphase II. The result is that one gamete has 2 copies of one chromosome and the other has no copy of that chromosome.
This page is devoted to explaining the different types of Nondisjunction disorders that occur in our world. Nondisjunction disorders are when cell division development of the zygote has an imbalanced amount of genetic information. This imbalance affects the distribution of the chromosomes or genetic information that each cell has. Having abnormal amounts of karyotypes in the chromosomes will overload the cells and this in turn can kill the zygote or in some cases, a person with Nondisjunction disorder is born. There are various karyotypes in our chromosomes that make our genetic makeup.
There are three forms of nondisjunction: failure of a pair of homologous chromosomes to separate in meiosis I, failure of sister chromatids to separate during meiosis II, and failure of sister chromatids to separate during mitosis. Nondisjunction results in daughter cells with abnormal chromosome numbers (aneuploidy). The term sex chromosome aneuploidy summarizes conditions with an abnormal number of sex chromosomes, i.e. other than XX (female) or XY (male). Formally, X chromosome monosomy (Turner syndrome, see above) can also be classified as a form of sex chromosome aneuploidy.
Having abnormal amounts of karyotypes in the chromosomes will overload the cells and this in turn can kill the zygote or in some cases, a person with Nondisjunction disorder is born. Nondisjunction is the failure of chromosomes to equally separate during meiosis. Meiosis is the steps or process' taken to duplicate genetic information and form two new cells. When this occurs it is called nondisjunction forming cells with either too many or not enough genetic information. Having abnormal amounts of karyotypes in the chromosomes will overload the cells and this in turn can kill the zygote or in some cases, a person with Nondisjunction disorder is born. There are various karyotypes in our chromosomes that make our genetic makeup.
Nondisjunction is the failure of homologous chromosomes or sister chromatids to separate properly during cell division. The term sex chromosome aneuploidy summarizes conditions with an abnormal number of sex chromosomes, i.e. other than XX (female) or XY (male). Formally, X chromosome monosomy (Turner syndrome, see above) can also be classified as a form of sex chromosome aneuploidy.
Nondisjunction causes chromosomal disorders because sometimes an error in meiosis occurs when homologous chromosomes fail to separate which results in the organism receiving t … he wrong number of chromosomes thus having a chromosomal disorder. 14 people found this useful. 
Human chromosomal abnormalities | Back to Top. A common abnormality is caused by nondisjunction, the failure of replicated chromosomes to segregate during Anaphase II. A gamete lacking a chromosome cannot produce a viable embryo. Occasionally a gamete with n+1 chromosomes can produce a viable embryo. Sex-chromosome abnormalities may also be caused by nondisjunction of one or more sex chromosomes. Any combination (up to XXXXY) produces maleness. Males with more than one X are usually underdeveloped and sterile.