MARTIN Surname Meaning & Origin: Martin is a patronymic surname taken from the ancient Latin given name Martinus, derived from Mars, the Roman god of fertility and war. Surname Origin: English, French, Scottish, Irish, German and others. Alternate Surname Spellings
Origin of the name Martin: From the Latin Martinus (of Mars, war-like), a derivative of Mars, the name of the Roman mythological god of war. The name was borne by St. Martin of Tours (c. 315 – 397). He is mainly remembered for splitting his cloak in two and giving half to a beggar. 
Martin /mar-tin/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced MART-en, mar-TEEN. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Martin is dedicated to Mars. The name originates with the Roman war god, Mars. Saint Martin de Porres (16th and 17th century), a man of mixed Spanish and Indian blood, is patron of work for interracial justice and harmony. Protestant reformer Martin Luther also influenced the name in the 19th century. 
Martin is a common given and family name in many languages. In some languages, and as a given name, it comes from the Latin name Martinus, which is a late derived form of the name of the Roman god Mars, the protective godhead of the Latins (and therefore the god of war).
Best Answer: Martin This interesting surname recorded in some two hundred forms from Martin and Martini to Marti and Martinovich, is of Roman origin. It derives from Mars, the god of fertility and war, although it is claimed that Mars itself may derive ultimately from the word mar, meaning to gleam. It is a patronymic for the first name Martin and means son of Martin. There are probably many people named Martinez (Spanish) or Martins (Catalan), Martines (Galician & Portuguese) who have shortened their surname to Martin.
Martin is used predominantly in the English, French, German, Romanian, Russian, Scandinavian, and Slavic languages, and its origin is Latin. The name's meaning is war-like, dedicated to Mars. Its meaning is from the element 'mars'. Martinus (Latin) is an older form of Martin. The Roman nickname Martinus is derived from Mars, the name of the god of war in Roman mythology. The name was popularized in the medieval period by Saint Martin of Tours (316/317-397), famous for cutting his cloak in two to share with a beggar
Meaning of Martin. English name. In English, the name Martin means-Warrior of Mars.. Other origins for the name Martin include-English, Latin-American, Spanish.The name Martin is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-Warrior of Mars. 
This interesting surname recorded in some two hundred forms from Martin and Martini to Marti and Martinovich, is of Roman origin. It derives from Mars, the god of fertility and war, although it is claimed that Mars itself may derive ultimately from the word mar, meaning to gleam. 
The name Martin is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Martin is: Warring. American Meaning: The name Martin is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Martin is: Warring. English Meaning: The name Martin is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Martin is: Warrior of Mars. Latin Meaning: The name Martin is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Martin is: Of Mars (the Roman god of war); warlike. Famous Bearer: black civil-rights leader Martin Luther King.
From the Roman name Martinus, which was derived from Martis, the genitive case of the name of the Roman god MARS. Saint Martin of Tours was a 4th-century bishop who is the patron saint of France. 