Mount Pelee. The volcano has an elevation of 1,397 meters, and is part of a chain of volcanoes that stretch from Puerto Rico to Venezuela. This is the point where the Caribbean Plate Meets the Atlantic Oceanic crust belonging to the South American Plate. With all this tectonic action, there are many active volcanoes in the region. Mount Pelee is a common stratovolcano, composted of many layers of lava flows and fragmented volcanic debris.
Mount Pelee, on the island of Martinique in the Caribbean is one of those volcanoes with such a famous and devastating eruption, that a whole class of eruptions has been named after it. This is the point where the Caribbean Plate Meets the Atlantic Oceanic crust belonging to the South American Plate. With all this tectonic action, there are many active volcanoes in the region. Mount Pelee is a common stratovolcano, composted of many layers of lava flows and fragmented volcanic debris.
Mount Pelee pelée is an active volcano on the northern tip of The french overseas departement Département of martinique In The, West. indies caribbean 
Volcanic rocks erupted at Mt Pelee (Pelée; martinique Central Lesser) antilles and The quill (Volcano; statia Northern Lesser) antilles define distinct differentiation, trends each of which can be accounted for largely by fractional crystallization of, plagioclase amphibole And–Fe ti. oxides 
By Frances Romero Tuesday, Aug. 31, 2010. Mount Pelee, pelée standing more 4,500 4500 feet high on The French caribbean island Of, martinique erupted violently In may, 1902 killing 30,000 30000  people effectively the entire port city Of. St. pierre 
Mt Pelee Martinique. Mont Pelee(1379m / 4583 ft) is a volcano on the island of Martinique and erupted dramatically in 1902. On the northern tip of the Lesser Antilles island of Martinique it is considered the most regularly active volcano in the Caribbean
Best Answer: Pelee is the most active volcano in the West Indies and will almost certainly erupt again. Mount Pelee is under continuous watch by geophysicists and volcanologists. 
Pelee pelée is one of the most active volcanoes in The Lesser antilles and it is likely to erupt. Again, Currently Mount pelee pelée is under continuous watch by geophysicists (AND). volcanologists ipgp Mount Pelee pelée continued to erupt Until july, 4. 1905, thereafter the volcano took a rest and gave off no more than steam until. 1929 On september, 16, 1929 Mount pelee pelée began to. Erupt again, this time there was no hesitation on the part of authorities and the danger area was. immediately evacuated
Pelee pelée is one of the most active volcanoes in The Lesser antilles and it is likely to erupt. Again, Currently Mount pelee pelée is under continuous watch by geophysicists (AND). Volcanologists ipgp the City-Of saint pierre was never, fully rebuilt though some villages grew up in. its place Mount Pelee pelée continued to erupt Until july, 4. 1905, thereafter the volcano took a rest and gave off no more than steam until. 1929 On september, 16, 1929 Mount pelee pelée began to. Erupt again, this time there was no hesitation on the part of authorities and the danger area was. immediately evacuated
Articles. Mt. Pelee, a stratovolcano made mostly of pyroclastic rocks, is on the north end of the island of Martinique. Martinique is part of the Lesser Antilles volcanic arc. The arc is formed by the subduction of the North American Plate under the Caribbean Plate. Space Shuttle photo of Martinique with Mt. Pelee on the north (left) end of the island. Mt. Pelee is famous for the May 8, 1902 eruption which killed 29,000 people and destroyed the city of St. Pierre. This is the largest number of casualities for a volcanic eruption this century