A popular destination for tourists in the know, Puerto Vallarta is a great place to spend your next beach vacation thanks to its natural splendor, hopping nightlife, top-notch all-inclusive resorts and unmatched shopping. 
Villa Group offers eight luxurious resorts in Mexico, with more on the horizon, located in five unique destinations. Each of our all inclusive resorts has a distinct personality with something to offer every type of traveler. Villa Group resorts are located in Puerto Vallarta, Riviera Nayarit, Cancun, Cabo San Lucas and the Islands of Loreto. Some are focused on a family-friendly environment; some are more suited for romantic couple retreats, while others cater to those seeking unparalleled elegance, sophistication and top-notch service. Our luxurious properties are all inclusive resorts in Mexico where guests can indulge in everything they love about being on vacation. The Villa Group brand includes Villa del Palmar, Villa del Arco and Villa la Estancia.
Actually neither Cabo nor PV has perfect beaches and both have plenty of vendors! For white sand, turquoise water you'd need to look to the Caribbean coast of Mexico, instead of the Baja or Pacific side. Personally I love PV, and like Cabo too, don't mind the vendors. I just consider them part of the experience. I've never been to Cabo, but something else to consider is PV is farther south and the water is warm enough to go in year round. I'm not sure if that's the case in Cabo. Also, I would say the farther you get from downtown in Puerto Vallarta, the better the beaches and water get. If you go to some of the surrounding beaches like Yelapa or take a trip to Los Arcos and the Marietas, the water is very clear (particularly the Marietas) as long as the tide is not too strong
I don't know about Puerto Vallarta but if you choose Cabos, best pool action and price is Hilton. Ask when they and another hotel does the fireworks and plan on eating out at their restaurant outside that night. You'll get a chance to hang with the locals. My hubby and I went there for a family wedding a few years ago (about 15 min away, north of downtown). We had the chance to explore for a few days and took tons of pictures. Beautiful city with a bit of old world charm to it.
We found more aggressive vendors in Cabo than PV. The Caribbean side of Mexico; Cancun, Playa del Carmen, Riveria Maya aream has great white sandy beaches and clear water perfect for swimming. I've never been to Cabo, but something else to consider is PV is farther south and the water is warm enough to go in year round. I'm not sure if that's the case in Cabo. Also, I would say the farther you get from downtown in Puerto Vallarta, the better the beaches and water get. If you go to some of the surrounding beaches like Yelapa or take a trip to Los Arcos and the Marietas, the water is very clear (particularly the Marietas) as long as the tide is not too stro
Los Cabos versus Puerta Vallarta (Riviera Nayarit). I know nothing about the pros and cons of Los Cabos versus Puerta Vallarta (Riviera Nayarit). We have never been to a nice resort in Mexico and would love to try it out. In Cabo we stayed at an amazing resort called Cabo Azul. http://www.caboazulresort.com/ It is not right on Medano Beach in Cabo San Lucas so it's more mellow and less of a party scene. I think it was great for families.
It really depends on what you are looking for. Cabo and Cancun are more expensive than PV. Cancun has the best beach. Nightlife is good in all three. Cancun more for the younger, spring break crowd. PV has the best Old Town area with authentic Mexican hotels and shopping. Its very old-world Mexico. There is lots of history and a ton of things to do like jungle tours and fishing then its perfect. Puerto Vallarta and Cabo are both more adult oriented locations. Yes, children are welcome in most places but these destinations are better suited for people over 18. In Cabo I'd recommend the Riu Cabo San Lucas or Dreams Los Cabos. For Puerto Vallarta, either Dreams Puerto Vallarta, the Marival Resort or the Palladium Vallarta. Now, as for Cancun/ Riviera Maya you have more options
1 Puerto Vallarta is still the most economical option. 2  Hotels are cheaper, tours are cheaper, and food is cheaper. 3  My personal fave are the massages. 4  I got the best massage of my life in Puerto Vallarta for only $30/hr. 5  Last time I went, I got a body scrub, used the steam room, and got an 80min massage for around $80. Hi Catherine – I’d pick a resort in Cabo San Lucas so that you can walk around the Marina if you choose to leave the resort. Elena-July 3, 2015 - 9:54 pm. Hi! We plan a short vacation at the end of July.