Post 3. I do my laundry at a coin laundry and the laundry attendant there is basically as a security measure and also to make sure that the machines are running in order. A coin laundry is pretty much a public space, anyone can come in and use it. So a laundry attendant needs to be there to make sure clothes aren't getting stolen and that the washers and driers are working. Sometimes I put in my clothes in the washer and go over to the grocery store next door to do my shopping. I wouldn't be able to do that if there wasn't a laundry attendant there.
Ad. A laundry attendant at a dry cleaning or similar laundering facility will often work with customers to establish their needs and ensure the cleaning is done properly. He or she will typically talk to a customer as clothes or linens are brought in to assess the specific cleaning needs of the customer. So a laundry attendant needs to be there to make sure clothes aren't getting stolen and that the washers and driers are working. Sometimes I put in my clothes in the washer and go over to the grocery store next door to do my shopping. I wouldn't be able to do that if there wasn't a laundry attendant there.
Laundromat attendants do not need any formal education or previous experience to enter their profession. However, ONET OnLine shows that as of 2011, 58 percent of attendants had a high school diploma and 40 percent had less education. Attendants learn their skills by working with more experienced workers or from laundry supervisors. California ranked first with 18,610 of the 201,180 jobs and mean wages at an annual $21,800, or $10.48 per hour. Texas was next with 17,170 positions averaging $19,880 per year, or $9.56 per hour. The state with the highest paying jobs was Hawaii, at a mean $31,710 yearly, or $15.24 hourly.
Pay by Experience Level for Laundry Attendant. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. Folks with fewer than five years of experience take home $18K on average. Interestingly, those who have worked for five to 10 years report receiving a smaller median salary of $18K. (United States). Pay for Laundry Attendants in the United States sits in the ballpark of $8.79 per hour. Earnings sit near $7.59 per hour on the lower side but can approach $11.44 on the higher side. Most Laundry Attendants are fairly content with their jobs, and work satisfaction falls in line with the national average
The Laundry Attendant will adhere to all rules and guidelines as set to all department employees. Opening Duties: 1. Sign in on timesheet and check communications binder/board for pertinent information relating to the upcoming shift; 2. Closing Duties: 1. Confirm all assignments are completed; 2. Shut down all equipment; 3. Prepare work area for next shift; 4. Secure work area; 5. Return keys; 6. Sign out on timesheet and check schedule.
People might be able to buy items such as bleach from a laundry attendant. Many laundry attendants work in the hospitality industry at hotels and resorts and oversee laundry to ensure that guests have items like clean towels. So a laundry attendant needs to be there to make sure clothes aren't getting stolen and that the washers and driers are working. Sometimes I put in my clothes in the washer and go over to the grocery store next door to do my shopping. I wouldn't be able to do that if there wasn't a laundry attendant there.
Attendants must be able to manage their time wisely because they generally deal with several loads of laundry at the same time. Laundromat attendants earned a mean salary of $21,380 per year, or $10.28 per hour, as of May 2011, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. California ranked first with 18,610 of the 201,180 jobs and mean wages at an annual $21,800, or $10.48 per hour. Texas was next with 17,170 positions averaging $19,880 per year, or $9.56 per hour. The state with the highest paying jobs was Hawaii, at a mean $31,710 yearly, or $15.24 hourly.
The attendant then helps launder these items, iron and fold them as they're clean, and restock the housekeeping personnel for the next day's service. Laundry attendants are also expected to perform routine inspections and maintenance on the laundry room washers and dryers. (United States). Pay for Laundry Attendants in the United States sits in the ballpark of $8.79 per hour. Earnings sit near $7.59 per hour on the lower side but can approach $11.44 on the higher side. Most Laundry Attendants are fairly content with their jobs, and work satisfaction falls in line with the national average