nerve gas, any of several poison gases intended for military use, e.g., tabun, sarin, soman, and VX. Nerve gases were first developed by Germany during World War II but were not used at that time.
VX, a persistent nerve gas, was discovered by Ghosh and was touted as being more toxic than any previously synthesized compound. Since the discovery of VX, there have been only minor advancements in the development of new nerve agents. A contemporary use of nerve gas occurred during the Iran-Iraq war of 1984 – 1988. In this conflict, the United Nations confirmed that Iraq used tabun and other nerve gases against Iran.
U.N. weapons inspectors returned overwhelming and indisputable evidence of the use of nerve gas in Syria, Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said Monday, calling the findings beyond doubt and beyond the pale..
To From Subject Comments. Nerve gas, Weapon of chemical warfare that affects the transmission of nerve impulses through the nervous system. The organophosphorus nerve agents Tabun, Sarin, and Soman were developed by Germany during World War II but not used.
Nerve gas, Weapon of chemical warfare that affects the transmission of nerve impulses through the nervous system. The organophosphorus nerve agents Tabun, Sarin, and Soman were developed by Germany during World War II but not used.
Activists say the nerve agent Sarin was used in the alleged chemical weapons attack that killed up to 1,300 people. Sarin is colourless, tasteless and odourless, unlike mustard gas which smells of rotten onions or garlic.
The most notorious sarin attack occurred in March 1988 in Halabja when as many as 5,000 Kurds were killed and 65,000 injured when the Iraqi military used a combination of chemical agents that included sarin, mustard gas and possibly VX, a nerve agent 10 times more powerful than sarin.
Kerry cites new evidence Syria used sarin gas. Secretary of State John Kerry says the U.S. has evidence that Syria used sarin in last month's deadly attack in Damascus. The CDC says the chemical weapon, which was first developed as a pesticide, is the most volatile nerve agent.