A lack of growth hormone is usually caused by damage to the pituitary gland or the hypothalamus, a part of the brain that controls the pituitary gland. Growth hormone in adults is absorbed quickly by tissues from the blood as it circulates. As a result of this, a blood test given to a healthy persons will show low levels of growth hormone. Endocrinologists instead check the pituitary gland's response when it is stimulated to produce
The pituitary gland is a small gland, about the size of a pea. It is located at the base of the skull and secretes hormones. Some of these hormones control thyroid activity and body temperature. A growth hormone deficiency (GHD) occurs when a person’s pituitary gland does not produce enough growth hormone.
If the deficiency of growth hormone is due to a pituitary tumor, the doctor will monitor the tumor with MRIs every year. Currently, it is not known whether the growth hormone will cause tumors that remain in the pituitary gland to grow. Growth hormone in adults is absorbed quickly by tissues from the blood as it circulates. As a result of this, a blood test given to a healthy persons will show low levels of growth hormone. Endocrinologists instead check the pituitary gland's response when it is stimulated to produce
Growth Hormone Deficiency Overview. Growth hormone (GH) deficiency is a disorder that involves the pituitary gland (a small gland located at the base of the brain), which produces growth hormone and other hormones. When the pituitary gland does not produce enough growth hormone, growth will be slower than normal. In adults, low or absent growth hormone can also cause emotional symptoms, such as tiredness and lack of motivation. Cholesterol may also be affected. Adults with growth hormone deficiency usually have a history of pituitary tumors that may have been treated with surgery or radiation.
Growth hormone deficiency has a variety of different negative effects at different ages; for example, in newborn infants, the primary manifestations may be hypoglycemia or micropenis, while in later infancy and childhood, growth failure is more likely. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Growth hormone deficiency (GHD) is a medical condition, caused by problems arising in the pituitary gland, in which the body does not produce enough growth hormone (GH). Growth hormone, also called somatropin, is a polypeptide hormone which stimulates growth and cell reproduction.
This hormone stimulates growth, which keep your muscles, tissues, and bones healthy. But when your pituitary gland doesn't produce enough growth hormone, growth can slow. A lack of growth hormone causes growth hormone deficiency. You can be born with this condition. If that happens, it's called congenital growth hormone deficiency. But growth hormone deficiency can also develop during childhood or when you're an adult, which is called acquired growth hormone deficiency. 
Growth Hormone Deficiency Causes. Growth hormone deficiency is caused by low or absent secretion of growth hormone from the pituitary gland. This can be caused by congenital (a condition that is present at birth) or acquired (a condition that occurs after birth) conditions. It is not clear if this is clinically important or requires any additional administration. Acquired causes of growth hormone deficiency include infections; brain tumors; and injury, surgery, or radiation to the head. In some cases, no causes can be identified.
Adults can benefit from growth hormone injections if they have GHD due to damage to the pituitary gland from a brain tumor, surgery, infection, or radiation exposure. Symptoms of acquired growth hormone deficiency (AGHD) include low energy level, decreased sex drive, and weight gain, especially in the mid-section. It is located at the base of the skull and secretes hormones. Some of these hormones control thyroid activity and body temperature. A growth hormone deficiency (GHD) occurs when a person’s pituitary gland does not produce enough growth hormone.
A growth hormone (GH) test measures the amount of human growth hormone (GH) in the blood. GH is made by the pituitary gland and is needed for growth. It plays an important role in how the body uses food for energy (metabolism). Growth hormone can cause the release of other substances (factors) that affect growth and metabolism. One of these is insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1). When the GH level is very high, the IGF-1 level is also very high. A test for IGF-1 may also be done to confirm high GH levels.