This is a list of English terms of venery (venery being an archaic word for hunting), comprising terms from a tradition that arose in the Late Middle Ages, at least partly from the Book of Saint Albans of 1486. The list also includes more common collective terms (such as herd and flock) for some animals. Contents. 
Rabbit habitats include meadows, woods, forests, grasslands, deserts and wetlands. Rabbits live in groups, and the best known species, the European rabbit, lives in underground burrows, or rabbit holes. A group of burrows is called a warren. More than half the world's rabbit population resides in North America. Male rabbits are called bucks; females are called does. An older term for an adult rabbit is coney, while rabbit once referred only to the young animals. Another term for a young rabbit is bunny, though this term is often applied informally (especially by children) to rabbits generally, especially domestic ones.
Weight: 2-35 lbs. Lifespan: 8-12 years. Number of babies per pregnancy: 5-6 avg. Other Mammal. Wells Fargo Family Farm. The Minnesota Zoo is home to a small herd of domestic rabbits. Visitors may be allowed to pet and feed rabbits in the Rabbitry with help from Zoo staff and volunteers. Visitors may also peek into nest boxes to see litters of newborns, or kits. 
With herd management, you make the best decision for an animal based on the welfare of the herd. It is important to give some thought to your philosophy before you have a sick rabbit or more rabbits than your rabbitry or lifestyle can comfortably hold. If you keep the pet mentality as you build your herd of rabbits, you will find yourself stressed, feeling guilty and financially burdened. There’s a lot of variety within the herd management mentality as well.Some managers try to treat every condition and rehabilitate every rabbit possible.
There are eight different genera in the family classified as rabbits, including the European rabbit (Oryctolagus cuniculus), cottontail rabbits (genus Sylvilagus; 13 species), and the Amami rabbit (Pentalagus furnessi, an endangered species on Amami Ōshima, Japan). Male rabbits are called bucks; females are called does. An older term for an adult rabbit is coney, while rabbit once referred only to the young animals. Another term for a young rabbit is bunny, though this term is often applied informally (especially by children) to rabbits generally, especially domestic ones.
What exactly is culling rabbits from your herd and how is it done? Culling is a rather loose term, but it's basically how you select which rabbits will be kept in your breeding program by accessing their qualities (or lack thereof). A beautiful French Lop may not have the best ear placement for a winning show rabbit, but it could do well in youth shows or as a pet, and you may want to cull it from the rabbitry for either of those purposes. By the way, the term culling isn't limited to rabbits.
Rabbits are crepuscular, most active at dawn and dusk. The average sleep time of a rabbit in captivity is said to be 8.4 hours. As with other prey animals, rabbits often sleep with their eyes open so sudden movements will wake the rabbit and alert it to dangers. Male rabbits are called bucks; females are called does. An older term for an adult rabbit is coney, while rabbit once referred only to the young animals. Another term for a young rabbit is bunny, though this term is often applied informally (especially by children) to rabbits generally, especially domestic ones.
Rabbits can be affected by a number of diseases. These include pathogens that also affect other animals and/or humans, such as Bordetella bronchiseptica and Escherichia coli, as well as diseases unique to rabbits such as rabbit haemorrhagic disease: a form of calicivirus, and myxomatosis. Male rabbits are called bucks; females are called does. An older term for an adult rabbit is coney, while rabbit once referred only to the young animals. Another term for a young rabbit is bunny, though this term is often applied informally (especially by children) to rabbits generally, especially domestic ones.
Culling is simply about deciding which animals is kept in your homestead. Culling is how your rabbit herd becomes a strong representation according to their (and your) breed, wool, or meat standard. During the culling process, you'll judge each rabbit for its intended purpose. A beautiful French Lop may not have the best ear placement for a winning show rabbit, but it could do well in youth shows or as a pet, and you may want to cull it from the rabbitry for either of those purposes. By the way, the term culling isn't limited to rabbits.