A HRIS, or Human Resource Information System, is a software solution for small to mid-sized businesses to help automate and manage their HR, payroll, management and accounting activities. A HRIS generally should provide the capability to more effectively plan, control and manage HR costs; achieve improved efficiency and quality in HR decision making; and improve employee and managerial productivity and effectiveness.
There are now many types of Human Resources Management System (HRMS) or Human Resources Information System (HRIS) some of which are typically local-machine based software packages the other main type is an online cloud-based system which can be accessed via a web browser. It merges HRM as a discipline and, in particular, its basic HR activities and processes with the information technology field, whereas the programming of data processing systems evolved into standardized routines and packages of enterprise resource planning (ERP) software.
A HRIS, or Human resource information system, is a software solution for small to mid-sized businesses to help automate and manage their HR, payroll, management and accounting activities. 
HRMS stands for Human Resources Management System. This and HRIS are terms that vendors have used to try to distinguish their software from others. If you're looking for a solution to automate HR, it's best to start by being familiar with your own needs, then see what different vendors offer. In the process of selecting a product to automate your human resources department, you may have heard the phrase Human Resources Information System or HRIS. To define this long and complex term, let's begin with the last word: system. Although it has many definitions, the term is traditionally defined as follows:
Short for Human Resources Information System HRIS is a system used by human resources departments to track employees and information about them. A HRIS is often a database system or a series of inter-related databases. 
An affordable Human Resource Information System (HRIS), for example Sage HRMS’s e-capabilities, allows companies to manage their workforce through two powerful main components: HR & Payroll. A HRIS generally should provide the capability to more effectively plan, control and manage HR costs; achieve improved efficiency and quality in HR decision making; and improve employee and managerial productivity and effectiveness.
Sometimes referred to as a human resources management system (or HRMS), it is the cloud-based system or software in place to house and organize a company’s employee information. 
MicroStrategy. vs. SAP Business Objects. A human resource information system (HRIS) is an information system or managed service that provides a single, centralized view of the data that a human resource management (HRM) or human capital management (HCM) group requires for completing human resource (HR) processes. You also agree that your personal information may be transferred and processed in the United States, and that you have read and agree to the Terms of Use and the Privacy Policy. A very basic HRIS is composed of a database and a database management system.
Human Resource Information Systems (HRIS). A system which seeks to merge the activities associated with human resource management (HRM) and information technology (IT) into one common database through the use of enterprise resource planning (ERP) software. The goal of HRIS is to merge the different parts of human resources, including payroll, labor productivity, and benefit management into a less capital-intensive system than the mainframes used to manage activities in the past.
A HRIS, which is also known as a human resource information system or human resource management system (HRMS), is basically an intersection of human resources and information technology through HR software. This allows HR activities and processes to occur electronically. 