Coughing up blood is not the same as bleeding from the mouth, throat, or gastrointestinal tract. Blood that comes up with a cough often looks bubbly because it is mixed with air and mucus. It is usually bright red, although it may be rust-colored. Sometimes the mucus contains only streaks of blood.
Get checked out: Blood in the phlegm can have a lot of causes: some benign, others not as much. Especially if you are a smoker, any blood in the phlegm is not normal. The best thing is to see your doctor: get the blood in the phlegm and the pain in the kidneys checked out.
Phlegm (Definition). Phlegm is the thick, sticky mucus secreted by the surface of the respiratory tract during a cold or other respiratory infection. The respiratory tract includes the nose and sinuses, throat, voice box, bronchi, and lungs.
Coughing up blood is the spitting up of blood or bloody mucus from the lungs and throat (respiratory tract). Hemoptysis is the medical term for coughing up blood from the respiratory tract.
Cholera, which is a waterborne bacterial infection of the intestine, can lead to mucus and blood in stools, and other large intestine problems. Other symptoms include abdominal cramping, loss of appetite, nausea, diarrhea, depression, and irritability.
In serious cases there can be passage of blood and mucus in stool. It is especially true in cases of diarrhea caused by parasitic infections of the intestine, or due to severe infections of the gastrointestinal tract. Most people also show other symptoms, like dehydration, weakness, nausea, and severe irritability.
But you can have perfectly clear mucus and have a terrible ear and sinus infection , Kao says. If you do have an infection, you'll likely also have other symptoms, such as congestion, fever, and pressure in your face, overlying the sinuses, Johns says.
Mucus and blood may occur due to an infection of the intestine or an infection in any part of the digestive tract. The blood may be a red color, in which case it is mostly indicative of an infection of the intestine. If the blood mucus appears black, then you may have an infection of the upper gastrointestinal tract.