A complete blood count (CBC) gives important information about the kinds and numbers of cells in the blood, especially red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. A CBC helps your doctor check any symptoms, such as weakness, fatigue, or bruising, you may have. This means that a value that falls outside the normal values listed here may still be normal for you or your lab. Normal values for the complete blood count (CBC) tests depend on age, sex, how high above sea level you live, and the type of blood sample. Your doctor may use all the CBC values to check for a condition
Definition. A complete blood count (CBC) is a blood test used to evaluate your overall health and detect a wide range of disorders, including anemia, infection and leukemia. A complete blood count test measures several components and features of your blood, including: 1  Red blood cells, which carry oxygen. By Mayo Clinic Staff. A complete blood count (CBC) is a blood test used to evaluate your overall health and detect a wide range of disorders, including anemia, infection and leukemia.
The 5 parts of a CBC are:  White blood cell (WBC) count White blood cells help your body fight off infections. The normal range for WBC is 5 to 10 K/uL. Your CBC will also measure what’s called the ANC (absolute neutrophil count) That’s the specific number of white blood cells in your blood that fight infection. Patient Education 2 Understanding your complete blood count  Hematocrit (HCT) value The hematocrit value measures how much of your total blood count is made up of red blood cells. The normal range for HCT is 36 to 52%.
The complete blood count, or CBC, lists a number of many important values. Typically, it includes the following: 1  White blood cell count (WBC or leukocyte count). 2  WBC differential count. 3  Red blood cell count (RBC or erythrocyte count). 4  Hematocrit (Hct). 5  Hemoglobin (Hbg). 6  Mean corpuscular volume (MCV). 7  Mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH).
Red blood cell count, hemoglobin and hematocrit. The results of your red blood cell count, hemoglobin and hematocrit are related because they each measure aspects of your red blood cells. If the measures in these three areas are lower than normal, you have anemia. Anemia causes fatigue and weakness. 
A complete blood count (CBC) gives important information about the kinds and numbers of cells in the blood, especially red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. A CBC helps your doctor check any symptoms, such as weakness, fatigue, or bruising, you may have. 
The 5 parts of a CBC are:  White blood cell (WBC) count White blood cells help your body fight off infections. The normal range for WBC is 5 to 10 K/uL. Your CBC will also measure what’s called the ANC (absolute neutrophil count) That’s the specific number of white blood cells in your blood that fight infection. The normal range for HGB is 12 to 17.4 g/dL. Patient Education 2 Understanding your complete blood count  Hematocrit (HCT) value The hematocrit value measures how much of your total blood count is made up of red blood cells.
A complete blood count (CBC) is a blood test that measures the number and quality of red blood cells red blood cellsA type of blood cell that carries oxygen to and carbon dioxide from tissues in the body. A CBC includes the following information: 1  RBC count – the total number of RBCs. 2  WBC count – the total number of WBCs. 3  hemoglobin hemoglobinA protein found in red blood cells that carries oxygen and gives blood its red colour.