New tax from the NSW state budget. New South Wales budget changes in the State Revenue Legislation Amendment Bill 2013 mean that stamp duty will be payable when a call option holder, for valuable consideration: 1  nominates another person to exercise an option, or. 2  nominates another person as purchaser or transferee of the land, or. In each instance, the transfer of an option to purchase land will be deemed to occur. Any such transfer is already dutiable under NSW law. Where the new provision applies, duty is calculated on the greater of the consideration provided for the nomination or novation, and the value of the option.
The NSW Government charges stamp duty on the following transactions: 1  an agreement for the sale or transfer of dutiable property, 2  a declaration of trust over dutiable property, 3  a surrender of an interest in land in New South Wales, 4  a foreclosure of a mortgage over dutiable property, Stamp duty calculator NSW calculates stamp duty for properties or land bought in New South Wales (NSW) only.
Duty on the transfer of business assets or a declaration of trust over 'business assets' (other than land) will be abolished from 1 July 2016. Duty is applied on the following transactions: a sale or transfer of land, including improvements in New South Wales (NSW). a sale or transfer of business assets in NSW. a declaration of trust over dutiable property in NSW. 
Transfers to married couples and de facto partners. Under section 104B of the Duties Act 1997 (NSW) no duty is chargeable in the transfer of residential land if as a result of the transfer the property will be held as a married couple as tenants in common in equal shares or joint tenants. 
This calculator will estimate the amount of duty you need to pay on the sale or transfer of land or a business in NSW. Read more information about sale or transfer of land or business in NSW. Value includes any GST being paid by purchaser. All amounts entered must be numbers. 
A liability for stamp duty arises when the sale or transfer occurs and it is immaterial whether or not the transaction is effected by a written instrument or by other means, including electronic means. Stamp duty calculator NSW calculates stamp duty for properties or land bought in New South Wales (NSW) only.
Listen. Duty on the transfer or declarations of trust on marketable securities (shares and units), including commercial fishery shares, will be abolished from 1 July 2016. Duty is charged on the transfer of non-listed shares in a New South Wales (NSW) company or units in a unit trust scheme, being units: Rates and threshold. Duty is charged at 60 cents per $100, or part of $100, of the dutiable value of the shares or units. A minimum duty of $10 per transfer applies.
However, if the sale or transfer is effected by a written instrument, liability for stamp duty arises when the instrument is first executed. Stamp Duty in New South Wales is payable within 3 months of the date liability arises. Stamp duty calculator NSW calculates stamp duty for properties or land bought in New South Wales (NSW) only.
NOTE. Please see Information Circular 75 for details of changes to stamp duty announced in the State Budget 2015-16. As part of the State Budget 2015-16 stamp duty will be abolished on share transfer instruments executed on or after 18 June 2015. The abolition does not apply to a transfer of shares executed on or after 18 June 2015 pursuant to a contract of sale or other agreement entered into before 18 June 2015. 