If you’re writing an introduction, you probably already know what your topic is and what you want to say about it. (If you don’t, you need to go back and do that before you try to write an introduction!) A good essay has an “angle,” or way of presenting argument or information, to its readers. Think about what questions your essay addresses and why they’re important. 1  You should have your thesis before you start writing your introduction. 2  Remember that a thesis statement Is an assertion, not a fact or an observation.
How to evaluate your introduction draft. Ask a friend to read it and then tell you what he or she expects the paper will discuss, what kinds of evidence the paper will use, and what the tone of the paper will be. If your friend is able to predict the rest of your paper accurately, you probably have a good introduction. 1. The place holder introduction. When you don’t have much to say on a given topic, it is easy to create this kind of introduction. Essentially, this kind of weaker introduction contains several sentences that are vague and don’t really say much.
Strategies for writing an effective introduction. Start by thinking about the question (or questions) you are trying to answer. Your entire essay will be a response to this question, and your introduction is the first step toward that end. 1. The place holder introduction. When you don’t have much to say on a given topic, it is easy to create this kind of introduction. Essentially, this kind of weaker introduction contains several sentences that are vague and don’t really say much.
Writing a good introduction. A good paper introduction is fairly formulaic. If you follow a simple set of rules, you can write a very good introduction. The following outline can be varied. For example, you can use two paragraphs instead of one, or you can place more emphasis on one aspect of the intro than another. 
1.22 Writing introductions. Your introduction is the first impression your readers will have of your writing. A good introduction will show them that you know what you're talking about and that you're going to complete the task in question. It will also make them want to carry on reading and feel well disposed to what is to come. 
How to Write an Introduction. If you want to know how to write an introduction (or an introductory paragraph), then you've come to the right place. Most forms of writing require some form of introduction. Commonly, the introduction consists of one introductory paragraph. That way, you will have a better idea of what the paper actually says, instead of what you think it will say. If you follow these simple guidelines, you will be able to write a good introduction. See also our articles How to Use Paragraph Transitions, and How to Write a Conclusion for more tips on writing.
Try writing your introduction last. You may think that you have to write your introduction first, but that isn’t necessarily true, and it isn’t always the most effective way to craft a good introduction. 1. The place holder introduction. When you don’t have much to say on a given topic, it is easy to create this kind of introduction. Essentially, this kind of weaker introduction contains several sentences that are vague and don’t really say much.
5. The book report introduction. This introduction is what you had to do for your elementary school book reports. It gives the name and author of the book you are writing about, tells what the book is about, and offers other basic facts about the book. 1. The place holder introduction. When you don’t have much to say on a given topic, it is easy to create this kind of introduction. Essentially, this kind of weaker introduction contains several sentences that are vague and don’t really say much.
Save. An introduction is the most important part of an essay as it sets the standard and lets the reader know what you have in store for them. Writing a catchy or surprising introduction is a must for a good essay and should leave your audience wanting more. 