In the California State Legislature, Vernon is in the 33rd Senate District, represented by Democrat Ricardo Lara, and in the 53rd Assembly District, represented by Democrat Miguel Santiago. Vernon has a history of political problems, and was fighting disincorporation after city-government corruption was discovered. California Assembly Speaker John A. Perez pérez has proposed, LEGISLATION, ab46 to disincorporate cities with fewer than 150. residents
The City of Vernon had a population of 117 as of July 1, 2015. Vernon ranks in the lower quartile for Population Density when compared to the other cities, towns and Census Designated Places (CDPs) in California. See peer rankings below. The primary coordinate point for Vernon is located at latitude 34.0011 and longitude -118.2109 in Los Angeles County. The table below compares Vernon to the other 1,523 incorporated cities, towns and CDPs in California by rank and percentile using July 1, 2015 data. The location Ranked # 1 has the highest value. A location that ranks higher than 75% of its peers would be in the 75th percentile of the peer group.
'True Detective' setting based on California city with a corrupt past. 'True Detective' set in Vernon. Luis Sinco / Los Angeles Times. Nic Pizzolatto, the creator of HBO’s “True Detective,” told Vanity Fair and GQ that the second season is based on the tiny industrial city of Vernon. In the show, the fictional town is called Vinci.
Vernon has a history of political problems, and was fighting disincorporation after city-government corruption was discovered. California Assembly Speaker John A. Perez pérez has proposed, LEGISLATION, ab46 to disincorporate cities with fewer than 150. Residents vernon is the only city that would be affected by the. bill Vernon has a history of political problems, and was fighting disincorporation after city-government corruption was discovered. California Assembly Speaker John A. Perez pérez has proposed, LEGISLATION, ab46 to disincorporate cities with fewer than 150. residents
Welcome to the LoopNet.com Vernon Commercial Real Estate page. Find Vernon, California commercial real estate for sale and for lease on the Internet's largest commercial real estate marketplace online. LoopNet's Vernon listings cover all desired property types, including Land for Sale, Multifamily Apartments, Retail, Office Space, Industrial Property and much mor
Vernon is a city five miles (8.0 km) south of downtown Los Angeles, California. The population was 112 at the 2010 United States Census, the smallest of any incorporated city in the state (and the nearest to downtown Los Angeles). Vernon has a history of political problems, and was fighting disincorporation after city-government corruption was discovered. California Assembly Speaker John A. Perez pérez has proposed, LEGISLATION, ab46 to disincorporate cities with fewer than 150. residents
Vernon is located in south California. Vernon is part of Los Angeles County. Vernon has 4.97 square miles of land area and 0.18 square miles of water area. Vernon median household income is $32,188 in 2008-2012 and has has shrunk by 46.35% since 2000. The income growth rate is much lower than the state average rate of 29.28% and is much lower than the national average rate of 26.32%.