Most governments advise against all travel to these regions. If you must go, please see War zone safety and the Stay Safe section below. The North Caucasus is a region of the Caucasus located in Southern Russia, bordering Georgia to the south and Krasnodar Krai, Stavropol Krai, and Kalmykia to the north. 
Located next to Russia, Iran, and Turkey, between the Black and Caspian Seas, the region of the South Caucasus is Europe’s forgotten frontier. The small countries of Georgia, Armenia, and Azerbaijan might sound exotic and daunting, perhaps even conjuring up images of austere, ex-Soviet states plagued by conflict. Sheki: Situated on the green slopes of the Caucasus Mountains, the city of Sheki is located in the north of Azerbaijan close to Georgia’s south-eastern border.
Transcaucasia (Russian: закавказье) or the South Caucasus is a geopolitical region located on the border of Eastern Europe and Southwest Asia. All of Armenia is in Transcaucasia; the majority of Georgia and Azerbaijan, including the exclave of Nakhchivan, fall within the region. Parts of Iran and Turkey are also included within the region of Transcaucasia. Goods produced in the region include oil, manganese ore, tea, citrus fruits, and wine.
Georgia is located in the northwest region of the South Caucasus, with Russia bordering its Caucasus Mountains to the north, and Turkey, Armenia, and Azerbaijan to the south. Of the three countries, Georgia has the most to offer. 1 Sheki: Situated on the green slopes of the Caucasus Mountains, the city of Sheki is located in the north of Azerbaijan close to Georgia’s south-eastern border.
Kabardino-Balkaria. Dagestan is a region of Russia in the North Caucasus bordering Chechnya and Georgia to the west, Stavropol Krai and Kalmykia to the north, the Caspian Sea to the east, and Azerbaijan to the South. Loading photos…. Karachay-Cherkessia is a region in the Russian Caucasus bordering Krasnodar Krai to the west, Stavropol Krai to the north, Kabardino-Balkaria to the east, and Georgia to the south.
It is home to the Caucasus Mountains, which contain Europe's highest mountain, Mount Elbrus. Politically, the Caucasus region is separated between northern and southern parts.
The Caucasus /ˈkɔːkəsəs/ or Caucasia /kɔːˈkeɪʒə/ is a region at the border of Europe and Asia, situated between the Black and the Caspian seas.t is home to the Caucasus Mountains, which contain Europe's highest mountain, Mount Elbrus. Politically, the Caucasus region is separated between northern and southern parts.
The Caucasus Mountains, are located in Georgia, Armenia, Azerbaijan, and southwest Russia. They are considered a boundary between Europe and Asia. Based on various interpretat … ions it has been disputed as to which continent these mountains are part of but current opinions tend to list them as Asian mountains.ccording to The Strongest Strong's Exhaustive Concordance of the Bible, Caucasus Mountains is not mentioned in the Holy Bible. Another Answer: Many modern place names and/ … or peoples are not mentioned as such in the Scripture.
Caucasus. The Caucasus region is a mountain range lying between the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea, considered part of the natural boundary between Europe and Asia. Geographically it is usually considered part of Western Asia, adjacent to northeastern Turkey and northwestern Iran.