Non-Stop-Only You And Your Party-Door To Door. Ride with us Door To Door in Non-Stop Comfort and PrivacyTo / From The Honolulu International Airport And The Turtle Bay Resort AreaAnd All Island-Wide Oahu Destinations-Including Waikiki! To / From Honolulu International Airport: Turtle Bay Resort Area - $125 Flat Rate For 1-4 People. Like all airports, there are metered taxis waiting to take people from. the Honolulu airport to any destination Oahu-wide-including Waikiki. The maximum flag drop set by the City and County of Honolulu is $ 3.50 - with the maximum per mile rate of $ 3.60. The Waikiki area is about 2 miles long.
The North Shore Golf Shuttle offers complimentary Shuttle Service to Turtle Bay from Waikiki with a Palmer morning round of golf. $185 INCLUDES: 1  Round trip transportation from Waikiki to Turtle Bay Resort in our air-conditioned 10 passenger van. 2  Round of golf on the Palmer Course including green fees and cart fees. 3  Single players welcome. A: The shuttle service is available seven days a weeks with pick-ups starting at 6:40am. The shuttle provides free, round trip transportation for Waikiki hotel guests with a Palmer morning round.
Go to the lobby and wait by the concierge or the valet station by Enterprise Rental car. Let one of the valet’s know you are waiting for the Turtle Bay Shuttle operated by Island Transporter. If you are running late, please call our office or let the concierge know. 2. 
Walking shoes. There is no practical way to stay at Turtle Bay and do any kind of off resort activity without your own vehicle. And, it's a very looooooong walk from the hotel to the highway, and even then, the resort is situatated near almost nothing but produce stands. Back on topic, another poster mentioned using a shuttle service to Turtle Bay. I'm only aware of the shuttles that service HNL-Waikiki. If anyone has a recomendation for a HNL-Turtle Bay shuttle, I'd be very appreciative too. Thanks in advance for any info.
We are offering a variety of Stretch limousine, Sedan, SUV, Mercedes Benz Sprinter, Mini van and Van service to North Shore Oahu 24 hours a day to make sure our dear visitors are arriving to turtle bay resort safely during any hour of the day. Royal Hawaiian limousine LLC starting to offer a very comfortable, classy, reliable and affordable car service to Turtle Bay Resort in North Shore.
Turtle Bay is located on the fabled North Shore of Oahu, the surf capital of the world. We are conviently located near legendary surf breaks Pipeline, Sunset Beach and Waimea Bay. A beautiful 15 minute drive North will take you to Historic Haleiwa town which provides attractions, shopping and dining. We are a 10 minute drive from the Polynesian Cultural Center. Turtle Bay is a 55 minute drive from the Honolulu International Airport. We look forward to saying Aloha and welcoming you to Hawaii! For more information, please contact us at 1.866.475.2569. 
Airport & Custom Tour Shuttle Service. Island Transporter provides comfortable air conditioned transfers between the Honolulu International Airport, Waikiki and the beautiful North Shore of Oahu. For our guests at the Turtle Bay Resort, we have many new and exciting tours to local island destinations. 
Book Now. We have been the exclusive airport shuttle for North Shore Oahu and Turtle Bay Resort for over 11 years. Located on the famous North Shore Oahu, we provide you with a fast, easy, 24 hours, and affordable airport shuttle and tour service. We have been the exclusive airport shuttle for North Shore Oahu and Turtle Bay Resort for over 11 years