To this end, the Congress powers agreed to meet whenever trouble should crop up in Europe to discuss how to fix it. The first meeting of the Congress System was in 1818, at the Congress of Aix-la-Chapelle. This meeting dealt with the coalition of European armies that had been occupying France since Napoleon's defeat. The period of Metternich's congresses defined an era in which the governments in power attempted to create a reactionary international system. This system came to be called the Holy Alliance, appropriating the name of the coalition of Christian values Alexander had wanted to set up at the Congress of Vienna.
European diplomacy and the Congress System, 1815-56: a brief survey. The Vienna settlement 1814-15. - To keep peace in Europe after the downfall of Napoleon. Belgium, Holland and Luxemburg were united in the kingdom of the Netherlands. Aims of the settlement. Austria (Metternich), Britain (Castlereagh and Wellington), Prussia (Hardenberg) and Russia (Alexander 1) were determined to settle Europe after the years of the French Revolution and the Napoleonic Wars. Talleyrand was admitted to represent France. The settlement was a series of compromise
Libraries in the United States generally use either the Library of Congress Classification System (LC) or the Dewey Decimal Classification System to organize their books. Most academic libraries use LC, and most public libraries and K-12 school libraries use Dewey. 
© The Oxford Companion to British History 2002, originally published by Oxford University Press 2002. Congress system. Formally set up by article VI of the Quadruple Alliance, signed with the second treaty of Paris (20 November 1815). The congress system broke down because of the divergent aims of its members, the eastern powers wishing to use it to ‘police’ Europe, Britain insisting that it was intended only to secure the peace settlement and should not intervene in the domestic affairs of other countries.
congress system Attempt during the early 19th century to conduct diplomacy through regular conferences between the European allies that had defeated Napoleonic France. It originated in the Treaty of Paris (1815). The four powers (Austria, Britain, Prussia, and Russia) met in 1818, 1820, and 1821. The congress system broke down because of the divergent aims of its members, the eastern powers wishing to use it to ‘police’ Europe, Britain insisting that it was intended only to secure the peace settlement and should not intervene in the domestic affairs of other countries.
The Congress System was established with the initial purpose of making reforms to the Vienna Settlement, as a great period of peace had resulted from this settlement, and improving the life of the people. 
The rights of Jews were extended. Aims of the settlement. Austria (Metternich), Britain (Castlereagh and Wellington), Prussia (Hardenberg) and Russia (Alexander 1) were determined to settle Europe after the years of the French Revolution and the Napoleonic Wars. Talleyrand was admitted to represent France. The settlement was a series of compromises
In: Social Issues. Congress System and It’s breakdown. After independence and before 1967, the Congress was in a dominant position and this period normally referred as a “Congress Dominated System” or “Congress System”. Congress was a dominant force under the leadership of a majestic personality like Nehru and formed governments in centre and in most of the states
21. The Birth of the “Congress System”: The Quadruple Alliance of November 1815. The real trigger for the Congress System, as I point out in my book, Napoleon’s was brief return during the Hundred Days, an event that palpably demonstrated the continuing fragility of the international system. George Canning, the new British Foreign Secretary, generally opposed the Congress System, but his appointment took place so close to the opening of the Congress of Verona that he reluctantly permitted Wellington to proceed there.