After nitrogen has been fixed, other bacteria convert it into nitrate, in a process known as nitrification. In the first step of this process, Nitrosomonas convert ammonia into nitrite, and in the second step, nitrite is converted into nitrate, by Nitrobacter. This nitrate is then consumed by plants. The final aspect of the nitrogen cycle is the process of denitrification. This process is performed by a variety of microscopic bacteria, fungi, and other organsims. Nitrates in the soil are broken down by these organsisms, and nitrogen is released into the atmosphere. This complete the cycle.
Therefore, nitrogen fixation is essential for agriculture and the manufacture of fertilizer. It is also an important process in the manufacture of explosives (e.g. gunpowder, dynamite, TNT, etc.). Nitrogen fixation occurs naturally in the air by means of lightning. Biological nitrogen fixation can include conversion to nitrogen dioxide. All biological nitrogen fixation is done by way of nitrogenase metalo-enzymes which contain iron, molybdenum, or vanadium. Microorganisms that can fix nitrogen are prokaryotes (both bacteria and archaea, distributed throughout their respective kingdoms) called diazotrophs. Some higher plants, and some animals (termites), have formed associations (symbiosis) with diazotrophs.
Overview: The nitrogen cycle involves three major steps: nitrogen fixation, nitrification, and denitrification. It is a cycle within the biosphere which involves the atmosphere, hydrosphere, and lithosphere. The final aspect of the nitrogen cycle is the process of denitrification. This process is performed by a variety of microscopic bacteria, fungi, and other organsims. Nitrates in the soil are broken down by these organsisms, and nitrogen is released into the atmosphere. This complete the cycle.
The nitrogen fixation (N 2 -fixation) process between the legume plant and rhizobia bacteria is referred to as a symbiotic (mutually beneficial) relationship. Each organism receives something from the other and gives back something in return. 
Biological nitrogen fixation is the process that changes inert N 2 into biologically useful NH 3. This process is mediated in nature only by N-fixing rhizobia bacteria (Rhizobiaceae, α- Proteobacteria) (Soerensen sørensen And, sessitsch). 2007 
Nitrogen fixation is the process of nitrogen gas from the air  being turned into a compound in the soil by bacteria that live in  the root nodules of certain plants (legumes …). Nitrogen fixation which is the natural process of breaking down  nitrogen from atmosphere to ammonia NH3. It is done either  biologically or abiotically. This process is don … e by bacteria.
Nitrogen fixation, natural and synthetic, is essential for all forms of life because nitrogen is required to biosynthesize basic building blocks of plants, animals and other life forms, e.g., nucleotides for DNA and RNA and amino acids for proteins. Microorganisms that can fix nitrogen are prokaryotes (both bacteria and archaea, distributed throughout their respective kingdoms) called diazotrophs. Some higher plants, and some animals (termites), have formed associations (symbiosis) with
The nitrogen cycle is the process by which nitrogen is converted between its various chemical forms. This transformation can be carried out through both biological and physical processes. Important processes in the nitrogen cycle include fixation, ammonification, nitrification, and denitrification. 
The organisms that are involved in the nitrogen cycle are plants, animals, bacteria, and decomposers. The three types of bacteria which are involved in the nitrogen cycle are nitrogen-fixing bacteria which change the nitrogen gas into ammonia. The next is nitrifying bacteria … which changes the ammonia into nitrities and then the nitriites into nitrate