Bariatric surgery is another modality for accomplishing successful long-term weight loss maintenance in patients with morbid or complicated obesity. Its success is due in large part to better weight loss outcomes, more successful long-term weight loss maintenance, and remission of comorbid medical conditions.
Sharon B ., 57, of Troy, had bariatric surgery and has stabilized at 90 pounds of weight loss. She went to the Club Bariatrix support groups at Beaumont for about one year before deciding to have the surgery. I saw people there who had kept the weight off for three or four years and that was what I wanted, she says.
In a study examining the weight loss of 148 patients undergoing gastric bypass surgery, success was defined as weight loss greater than or equal to 50% excess body weight at 40 months post surgery (Livhits et al., 2010).
Just six months after his successful bariatric surgery, Alphea R. had lost 110 pounds, down from a pre-surgery weight of 387. He hopes to lose another 110 pounds. His blood pressure and diabetes medications have been reduced.
According to the American Obesity Association, 80% of patients lose some weight and 30% reach normal weight with VBG procedures. The long-term weight loss success rate with VBG is 40% to 63% of excess body weight over a 3-year period and 50% to 60% after 5 years.
Bariatric Surgery Success Stories, Before and After Photos. Weight loss surgery has changed countless lives for the better. All of these successful operations have come from A Lighter Me patients undergoing various types of bariatric surgery.
Beaumont has helped many people achieve their weight loss goals through bariatric surgery. Below are a few amazing bariatric surgery success stories and their results. Learn more about the bariatric surgery program and how Beaumont can help you succeed.
Weight Loss Surgery Success Stories. More than 7,000 people have chosen Inova Fair Oaks Hospital for their weight loss surgery. In addition, a growing number of people have signed on for our Medical Weight Loss Program, a non-surgical weight loss option.
Within two to three years after the operation, bariatric surgery usually results in a weight-loss of 10 to 35 percent of total body weight, depending on the chosen procedure.
Your weight loss success story could be the next addition here. View Gastric Sleeve Surgery Success Stories. Contact us and get a free quote on weight loss surgery. I didn't start to gain weight until after the birth of my only son, back in 1980 at the age of 22.