Definition of OCCIDENT. : west 2a. See Occident defined for English-language learners. See Occident defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Middle English, from Anglo-French, from Latin occident-, occidens, from present participle of occidere to fall, set (of the sun). First Known Use: 14th century.
Occident-the countries of (originally) Europe and (now including) North America and South America. West. Europe-the 2nd smallest continent (actually a vast peninsula of Eurasia); the British use `Europe' to refer to all of the continent except the British Isles. --My happiness itself do I throw out into all places far and wide 'twixt orient, noontide, and occident, to see if many human fish will not learn to hug and tug at my happiness;--.
The Orient means the East. It is a traditional designation for anything that belongs to the Eastern world or the Middle East (aka Near East) or the Far East, in relation to Europe. Equally valid terms for the Orient still exist in the English language in such collocations as Oriental studies (now Asian Studies in some countries). The adjectival term Oriental has been used by the West to mean cultures, peoples, countries, and goods from the Orient. Oriental means generally  eastern . It is a traditional designation (especially when capitalized) for anything belonging to the Orient or East (for Asia), and especially of its Eastern cultur
The opposite term  Occident  derives from the Latin word occidens, meaning west (lit. setting occido fall/set). This term meant the west (where the sun sets) but has fallen into disuse in English, in favor of Western world. Equally valid terms for the Orient still exist in the English language in such collocations as Oriental studies (now Asian Studies in some countries). The adjectival term Oriental has been used by the West to mean cultures, peoples, countries, and goods from the Orient. Oriental means generally  eastern . It is a traditional designation (especially when capitalized) for anything belonging to the Orient or East (for Asia), and especially of its Eastern culture
The Western world, also known as The West and the Occident (from Latin: occidens sunset, West; as contrasted with the Orient), is a term referring to different nations depending on the context. There are many accepted definitions about what they all have in common. The concept of Western culture is generally linked to the classical definition of the Western world. In this definition, Western culture is the set of literary, scientific, political, artistic and philosophical principles that set it apart from other civilizations.
From a very different perspective, it has also been argued that the idea of the West is, in part, a non-Western invention, deployed in the non-West to shape and define non-Western pathways through or against modernity. The concept of Western culture is generally linked to the classical definition of the Western world. In this definition, Western culture is the set of literary, scientific, political, artistic and philosophical principles that set it apart from other civilizations.
In the contemporary cultural meaning, the phrase Western world includes Europe, as well as many countries of European colonial origin with substantial European ancestral populations in the Americas, Asia and Oceania. The concept of Western culture is generally linked to the classical definition of the Western world. In this definition, Western culture is the set of literary, scientific, political, artistic and philosophical principles that set it apart from other civilizations.