Biography. The Beatles is one of the most important bands in the history of music. The band was formed in 1960 in Liverpool, England. The main members were John Lennon, Paul McCartney, George Harrison, Ringo Starr
The Beatles were an English rock band, formed in Liverpool in 1960. With members John Lennon, Paul McCartney, George Harrison and Ringo Starr, they became widely regarded as the greatest and most influential act of the rock era. 
Mini Bio (1). The Beatles were an English rock band that became arguably the most successful act of the 20th century. They contributed to music, film, literature, art, and fashion, made a continuous impact on popular culture and the lifestyle of several generations. When Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band was released in 1967, it was the first album to feature printed lyrics of all songs on its sleeve. Ringo Starr (the eldest Beatle) and Paul McCartney are the only former Beatles to make it to their 64th birthdays.
The Byrds' early music (before they were the Byrds) sounds Beatles-ish as did many others in that day. But their first album is in the full-blown folk-rock style, 1964 Beatles-inspired to a degree, but not like them at all (much much folkier). The Beatles were the ones who influenced them to do it. The Byrds only put folk rock in the forfront like the Beatles put Merseybeat in the forfront. As for the Beatles not being original no one sounded like the Beatles when they first came out.
Prior to The Beatles: Rock Band, no song by The Beatles, nor a cover of a Beatles song, had been featured in any Guitar Hero or Rock Band title, whether as disc-based or downloadable content. Although Michael Jackson, who owned 50% of the publishing rights to the Beatles songs through Sony/ATV, died in June 2009, the sale of his estate did not affect the songs or the release schedule of The Beatles: Rock Band, according to Harmonix.
The Beatles were... 1.) One of the first bands to give credit to their major influences ie. Elvis Presley, Buddy Holly, Carl Perkins, Eddie Cochrane, etc. 2.) The first major band to use the trio of guitars; lead, rythem, and bass along with drums. 26.) The Beatles were the first Rock Band to produce a full length, animated film featuring themselves. Yellow Submarine. 27.) The Beatles were the first band to incorporate odd sounds, gibberish, and non-sensical phrases into their recordings.
The Beatles had their own sound it was most original to me in 1963-1964. Scaruffi claims the Beatles made rock and roll as white music or aryan as possible. If the Beatles are the one band who are responsible in taking the roll out of rock and roll then the Beatles must have been innovative or changed music. The Beatles were the ones who influenced them to do it. The Byrds only put folk rock in the forfront like the Beatles put Merseybeat in the forfront. As for the Beatles not being original no one sounded like the Beatles when they first came out.
They were other artists but many of the experimental things the Beatles did if they were combining things led or helped other types of music. Scaruffi favorite Velvet Undergroud combined a lot of things the Beatles and others did already to create a new sound called noise rock. The Beatles were the ones who influenced them to do it. The Byrds only put folk rock in the forfront like the Beatles put Merseybeat in the forfront. As for the Beatles not being original no one sounded like the Beatles when they first came out.
7.) The first Rock and Roll band to incorporate exotic instuments, such as the sitar, into their recordings. 8.) The first band to record all the words to their songs on the back of an album cover. 9.) The first band to allow each of its members to sing lead on any given song. 10.) The Beatles made facial hair popular among Rock and Roll musicians and young men everywhere. 11.) The Beatles, along with their producer, George Martin, did away with the long outdated 4-track recording techniques and introduced higher track recording than had ever been attempted before. 26.) The Beatles were the first Rock Band to produce a full length, animated film featuring themselves. Yellow Submarine. 27.) The Beatles were the first band to incorporate odd sounds, gibberish, and non-sensical phrases
It was the Beatles who landed in America in February of 1964, and once they did, they were here to stay. SEE OUR GUITAR HEROES GROUP. It’s difficult to underestimate the Beatles’ influence on the course of popular music in America. The Beatles changed all this with their first film A Hard Day’s Night. The film features several full-song sequences that do not necessarily further the plot of the film but instead serve as expressions of the music.