Best Answer: Here is an easy way to remember how many valence electrons each element has: Look at this Periodic Table http://i.ehow.com/images/a04/fu/bq/read-... Starting from the right, at group 1A, which is the column that Hydrogen is at the top of, and also includes Sodium.
Aside from the number of valence electrons an atom has, the energy they have (or the energy level that they are in) is the last bit of information that helps predict how an atom will react. Let's take one look at the first column of elements.
Therefore, elements whose atoms can have the same number of valence electrons are grouped together in the periodic table of the elements. As a general rule, a main group element (except hydrogen or helium) tends to react to form a closed shell, corresponding to the electron configuration s 2 p 6.
Elements in the first row (hydrogen and helium) will have outer electrons in the first energy level. Their principal quantum number is 1. Elements in the second row (lithium through neon) will have valence electrons in the second energy level with a principal quantum number of 2.
The number of the valence shell in an atom determines its position in the Periodic Table i.e. the period to which the element belongs. Elements having 1, 2 or 3 electrons in the valence shell are metals. Exception is H and He.
The sodium atom (atomic number 11), with 1 valence electron in its third energy level, would like to achieve the stability of its nearest noble gas neighbor, the neon (Ne) atom (atomic number 10), which contains 8 valence electrons in its second energy level.
1. It is interesting to know the fact that Sodium has one valence electron. Keep in mind the fact that valence electrons are the outermost electrons. They are the ones involved in bonding. Sodium has 11 electrons. Moreover, its atomic number is 11, so it has 11 protons. Needless to say, a valence electron is an electron that is associated with an atom, and that can participate in the formation of a chemical bond.
Consider, for example, a sodium (Na) atom (atomic number 11), which is a metal atom (elements to the left of the heavy, stepped diagonal line in the periodic table are metals). The valence shell of the sodium atom is its third energy level, and it contains one electron.