1 Keep records for 7 years if you file a claim for a loss from worthless securities or bad debt deduction. 2  Keep records for 6 years if you do not report income that you should report, and it is more than 25% of the gross income shown on your return. 3  Keep records indefinitely if you do not file a return.
How long to keep records. You must normally keep records for at least 6 years from the end of the last company financial year they relate to. You may need to keep records longer if: 1  they show a transaction that covers more than one of the company’s accounting periods.
You should keep the actual returns forever, but you can get rid of the supporting documents after three years. That's how long the IRS has to initiate an audit. Once the time elapses, toss the records -- and shred any that reveal your Social Security number or other personal information.
1 Typically, the IRS can come after your business for failing to report income for up to 6 years after your filing if the amount is greater than 25% of your business’s gross income. 2  If you filed for a deduction for a bad debt or worthless security, the IRS suggests you keep your supporting tax records for 7 years.
1 Keep records for 6 years if you do not report income that you should report, and it is more than 25% of the gross income shown on your return. 2  Keep records indefinitely if you do not file a return. 3  Keep records indefinitely if you file a fraudulent return.
Records for tax deductions taken. Length of time to keep, and why: Seven years. 1  The IRS has three years from your filing date to audit your return if it suspects good-faith errors. 2  The three-year deadline also applies if you discover a mistake in your return and decide to file an amended return to claim a refund.
1 Keep records for 3 years if situations (4), (5), and (6) below do not apply to you. 2  Keep records for 3 years from the date you filed your original return or 2 years from the date you paid the tax, whichever is later, if you file a claim for credit or refund after you file your return.
1 Keep records for 3 years from the date you filed your original return or 2 years from the date you paid the tax, whichever is later, if you file a claim for credit or refund after you file your return. 2  Keep records for 7 years if you file a claim for a loss from worthless securities or bad debt deduction.