The inspiration for waterfall furniture came from handmade furniture emanating from the modernist movements in France, Austria and Germany, known as Art Moderne. Makers copied the designs of the ultra-exclusive French firm of Sue et Mare. Early examples, designed to appeal to broad audiences. Because of the furniture’s free-form and curvy lines, people called it “waterfall” furniture. There are all types of pieces, including chairs, desks, end tables, clothes chests.
Hi Hope. This is as you mentioned, a Waterfall bedroom set from the 1930s. It’s so named for the rounded tops and the way they spill over in a waterfall effect. Right now, dealers consider this style to be in the used furniture category rather than the collectible furniture category. Hope says, I have some furniture I would like appraised. It is antique waterfall full bed with 2 nightstands, vanity and dresser. There are some visible chips, but overall in good condition.
Resolved Question: I have an art deco waterfall style bedroom set: vanity with 4 drawers and a round mirror and bed which also has the original spring mattress frame). It was sold by Montomery Ward CO probably in the 40's. 
Related: art deco furniture waterfall fountain indoor waterfall antique waterfall furniture waterfall decor indoor fountain china cabinet art deco desk art deco buffet. 1 2 3. This is the median price based on sales of this product in the same condition from all listings on ebay.com in the past 14 days, or if there are any insufficient number of listings for a meaningful calculation, the past 90 days.
Answer by Al92 (105). It is plywood furniture that has nice curves and edges resembleing a waterfall. There is not really a frame to waterfall furniture. There are all kinds of types, chairs, desks, end tables, clothes drawers. The drawers do not have slides. Something you just can not take your eyes off. It is usually antique and can be found at auctions and other antique dealers. Waterfall furniture is something you need to experience in person and can add value and elegance to your home.
Waterfall furniture is a catchall term for molded plywood furniture that employs curved or rounded horizontal edges; hence, the term waterfall. The furniture uses unusual veneer designs and often has clever Bakelite handles. This was inexpensive furniture in its time. 
The Waterfall style is characterized by a rounded front on top of the furniture piece mimicking a waterfall. Typically, waterfall pieces are veneered. Because it is veneer, you will often see damage on the pieces you find at yard sales or estate sales. 
Check the disambiguation page. The Waterfall is a room furniture item in Club Penguin. Members could obtain it for free at the Prehistoric Party 2013 after roaring at the Big Water Place, Tree Place, Hunting Spot, Tyranno Town, and Scary Ice. 
Between the 1920's and 1940's, during the Great Depression, furniture with curved lines was expensive due to the carving of the wood. When the then new material plywood became available, the curves were now easily achieved. Something you just can not take your eyes off. It is usually antique and can be found at auctions and other antique dealers. Waterfall furniture is something you need to experience in person and can add value and elegance to your home.
The diamond inlay pattern is frequently found on furniture of this period but it has nothing to do with the term waterfall.. It was simply a decorative device that fit with the style and period. Furniture from this period is noted for the innovative and ingenious use of multiple veneers from many woods. 