Part 2 of 4: Budgeting. 1. Prepare an expense plan, to determine if game fees will be needed to cover the cost, or if local civic organizations or businesses will sponsor your event. Make sure you allow for the cost of trophies, costs involved with getting a field, officials, and all other expenses. 1. Call about 16 teams in your area and ask if they want to play. You can look for locally sponsored teams such as churches, civic organisations with soccer, or community athletic clubs that have soccer teams. 1  Call up friends and family who might be interested in playing.
EVENT HISTORY & BACKGROUND. May 2008 featured our first ever Hollyoaks Celebrity match played at Prenton Park, with a Football Aid XI taking on a Hollyoaks Celebrity team Captained by star of the show Nick Pickard. We would like to thank all the Hollyoaks celebs for their excellent support on the night. They included Nick Pickard, John Pickard, Chris Fountain, Ricky Whittle, David Judge, Ashley Taylor-Dawson, Jimmy McKenna, Jake Hendriks, Sam Townsend and Nico Mirallegro, the Hollyoaks Team were also joined by ex-Brookside stars Philip Oliver and Paul Byatt.
Holding a soccer cup tournament can help build the reputation of your local team or club, recruit new members and just be a whole lot of fun for everyone involved. You'll need to find a place to hold the event, have a basic budget in place and find competitors for the tournament. 1. Call about 16 teams in your area and ask if they want to play. You can look for locally sponsored teams such as churches, civic organisations with soccer, or community athletic clubs that have soccer teams. 1  Call up friends and family who might be interested in playing.
It was a Sunday to remember for many street children as bollywood stars played football for the better future of street children in city of Surat. The event was produced and managed by JPR Events. All-star football club team led by film star Abhishek Bacchan and Ranbir Kapooor played a charity football match with Surat footballers at jolly grounds in Vesu area of the city on Sunday evening. 
Found This Helpful. Organizing a charity sports event is a great way to quickly raise money. Charity sports events are an effective tool for not only bringing in dollars, but raising awareness of an issue, typically a disease or social problem. Recruit volunteers. Make sure you have enough people to effectively work the event, even if you lose a few people to illness or emergencies. You'll also need a referee or umpire depending upon the specific event. Advertise the event at least 2 weeks in advance.
Instructions. Choose the type of sporting event you would like to organize. Consider what's popular and who you're trying to attract. Charity golf tournaments are a popular choice, but not as spectator friendly as a football or basketball game. Recruit volunteers. Make sure you have enough people to effectively work the event, even if you lose a few people to illness or emergencies. You'll also need a referee or umpire depending upon the specific event. Advertise the event at least 2 weeks in advance.
Posting flyers and ads in the paper are also good ways to attract players. Book the venue. There's typically a charge for reserving fields, gyms and arenas, but if you explain you're organizing a charity event, you can likely book the venue for free or at a discount. Recruit volunteers. Recruit volunteers. Make sure you have enough people to effectively work the event, even if you lose a few people to illness or emergencies. You'll also need a referee or umpire depending upon the specific event. Advertise the event at least 2 weeks in advance.
Brandon's brother Tom and friends Josh Swift, of Howard Street, and Jacob Windsor, of The Willows, all 17, decided to arrange a charity football match in support of Brandon, pitting Darfield JFC's under-17s team against members of Darfield AFC, dubbed 'The Geriatrics'. Tweet. A TEN-YEAR-OLD boy who is receiving treatment for aggressive tumours has said he wants to give the money from a charity football match to a children's hospital. Brandon Lee, of Bellbrook Avenue, Darfield, was diagnosed with rhabdmyosarcoma two years ago, which causes malignant tumours to develop in muscle tissue
You need to decide if the players need to donate to participate or will the money come from admittance. This could determine the type of event, particularly if you're organizing a celebrity charity sports event. Decide how the money will be raised. You have several options and can likely use more than one technique. Recruit volunteers. Make sure you have enough people to effectively work the event, even if you lose a few people to illness or emergencies. You'll also need a referee or umpire depending upon the specific event. Advertise the event at least 2 weeks in advance.