HMS Artful can stay underwater for up to 25 years without surfacing – its nuclear reactor only needs serviced once per quarter-century, and the submarine can produce breathable air and water from the sea around it. The crew just have to remember to pack a LOT of DVD box sets. 
Nuclear-powered submarines can stay submerged for long periods of time. They are designed and manned to stay underwater long enough to support a wide variety of missions, which can last for several months. When completely submerged, a diesel-powered submarine uses its battery power and electric motors for propulsion. Depending on speed and other battery use, the submarine could stay underwater for up to several days before recharging batteries and exchanging stale air for fresh air.
Nuclear generators need no oxygen, so a nuclear sub can stay underwater for weeks at a time. Also, because nuclear fuel lasts much longer than diesel fuel (years), a nuclear submarine does not have to come to the surface or to a port to refuel and can stay at sea longer. Nuclear subs and aircraft carriers are powered by nuclear reactors that are nearly identical to the reactors used in commercial power plants.
Turtles can stay under water from around 1 - 5 hours depending  on the species, water temperature and condition. More detailed  answers can replace this one!    Some … turtles such as the green sea turtle can stay underwater for  about 3 hours in a sleep like dormant state. . 36 people found this useful. A typical person can stay underwater for between 30 seconds and a minute. Trained divers can last for 2 to 3 minutes. Pearl divers can last for up to around 7 minute … s.
Answer by coral (54). A modern nuclear submarine can stay under water for months at a time. The length of time it can stay submerged is limited by it's food supply onboard. Breathing air can be generated on board by the electrolysis of water. Fresh water is generated from seawater by reverse osmosis. Answer by NeedForSpeed (16). Submarines are capable of producing air, water, and power so the only limitation for submarines is their food supply. Submarines can stay submerged until the food is depleted.
How long can an alligator stay under water? Normally, an alligator can stay underwater for up to 30 minutes.  However, if they need to stay under longer because they are hiding  from some danger, they can last up to 2 … hours before coming up for  air. A typical person can stay underwater for between 30 seconds and a minute. Trained divers can last for 2 to 3 minutes. Pearl divers can last for up to around 7 minute … s.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A nuclear submarine can stay underwater indefinitely, it produces it's own air and fresh water. The only constraint on the time it can stay submerged is food for the crew. Once the food runs out it has to be re-supplied. A normal patrol can be between 3 and 6 weeks but could be extended to 12 weeks if necessary and if they had enough food for the crew, probably much longer. US Nuclear Submarines can stay submerged for only as long as they have food. That is what is the limiting factor. I have gotten underway walking on food. Large #10 can stacked 2 high throughout the forward compartment and that is just for starters. Needless to say, it can be a really long time!