Add the rice wine and combine. Pour in the broth; then the dark soy sauce and stir to combine. Add the chicken, mushrooms, bell peppers, and scallions. Stir-fry over high heat for 2 to 3 minutes. Then, reduce the heat a little, and stir in the thickening mixture for a few seconds. Finally, add the sesame oil, which will impart a beautiful fragrance and richness to the dish. Serve hot.
Step 1: In a medium bowl whisk together chicken broth, hoisin sauce, oyster sauce, sherry, sugar, soy sauce and crushed red pepper flakes. Set aside. Step 2: Toss chicken with cornstarch in a bag until all of the strips are thoroughly coated. Heat a deep fryer to 375 degrees. Step 3: Add a tablespoon or two of oil to a wok over medium-high heat. Add garlic, onion and green onions. Season vegetables with salt and pepper. Stir fry until vegetables have reached your desired tenderness.
Place in frying pan over low heat. While chicken is cooking, in a small saucepan combine oil, ginger and garlic and cook for 30-60 seconds. Add soy sauce, water and brown sugar. Bring to a boil. Remove from heat. Combine corn starch and water to make a slurry. Add to sauce
1 In a bowl, mix chicken pieces with cornstarch until all the pieces are evenly coated. 2  In a pan over high heat, add oil and when the oil is hot, add chicken. 3  Cook until chicken is cooked through (about 4 minutes). 4  Add garlic and ginger and cook for 2 minutes. 1 Cook until chicken is cooked through (about 4 minutes). 2  Add garlic and ginger and cook for 2 minutes. 3  Add soy sauce, chicken stock and brown sugar and cook for 3-4 minutes, until sauce thickens. 4  Turn the heat off, add sesame oil and scallions. 5  Stir well and serve with white rice.
(December 2009). Mongolian beef is a dish served in Chinese-American restaurants consisting of sliced beef, typically flank steak, and stir-fried with vegetables in a savory brown sauce, usually made with hoisin sauce, soy sauce, and chili peppers. The beef is commonly paired with scallions or mixed vegetables and is often not spicy. 
1 Pour in the broth; then the dark soy sauce and stir to combine. 2  Add the chicken, mushrooms, bell peppers, and scallions. 3  Stir-fry over high heat for 2 to 3 minutes. 4  Then, reduce the heat a little, and stir in the thickening mixture for a few seconds. 
Remove the chicken. Clean out the wok. Heat 1 tablespoon oil in the wok. When the oil is hot, add the garlic, green onion and hot pepper flakes. Stir-fry for 15 seconds, then add the chicken back into the pan. Stir-fry briefly, then push to the sides. Add the sauce in the middle. Add the marinade ingredients. Marinate the chicken for 15 minutes. While the chicken is marinating, prepare the sauce and remaining vegetables. In a small bowl, combine the hoisin sauce, dark soy sauce, red wine vinegar, sugar and water or chicken broth. Set aside.
2 tbs peanut oil. In a bowl combine the chicken and the 2 tbs soy sauce, 1 tsp salt, and just a little black pepper. Then add 1 tbs of cornstarch toss with the chicken. Allow the chicken to marinate for 30 minutes. Then in a wok over a high flame add the oil then the chicken. Cook the chicken unitl it turns opaque. 