If you have dizziness or vertigo that comes and goes but you do not have any of the above problems, make an appointment with your doctor or nurse. He or she will perform a physical exam, and may order further testing, depending on your exam and medical history. 
If your vertigo and dizziness is causing you concern, talk to your doctor. Only a doctor can diagnose the cause of your vertigo, and there are some very serious illnesses that are associated with vertigo and vertigo-like symptoms. But when those have been ruled out, or your vertigo tends to come and go with intense anxiety, it may be a sign of panic disorder or a related anxiety problem. Vertigo is actually a subtype of dizziness, and technically anxiety does not cause vertigo. Vertigo is the act of feeling as though you're in motion (or the world's in motion) when you're stationary. It's usually long lasting, and often caused by an imbalance in your inner ear
To find out whether your vertigo is caused by BPPV, your doctor will want to find out what causes it, how bad it is, and how long it lasts. With BPPV: 1  Tilting the head, looking up or down, rolling over in bed, or getting in and out of bed causes vertigo. 2  It begins a few seconds after you move your head. The main symptom of benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is the feeling that you or your surroundings are spinning, whirling, or tilting. This sensation is called vertigo. It is important to understand the difference between vertigo and dizziness. People often use those two terms as if they meant the same thing.
Vertigo is a specific type of dizziness that is characterized by the sudden sensation that you are spinning or that the world around you is spinning. The feeling can come and go or it can last for hours or days. Meniere's disease is caused by the buildup of fluid and pressure in the inner ear and can cause dizziness along with ringing in the ears and hearing loss. Less common causes of vertigo can include head or brain injuries or migraines.
Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo is caused by a problem in the inner ear. It usually causes brief vertigo spells that come and go. For some people, BPPV goes away by itself in a few weeks. But it can come back again. BPPV is not a sign of a serious health problem. Benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) is caused by a problem in the inner ear. Tiny calcium stones inside your inner ear canals help you keep your balance.
BPPV often goes away without treatment. Until it does, or is successfully treated, it can repeatedly cause vertigo with a particular head movement. Sometimes it will stop for a period of months or years and then suddenly come back. 
The most common causes of vertigo are inner ear infections or diseases of the ear such as benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV), vestibular neuritis, and Meniere's disease. BPPV can occur when calcium builds up in canals of the inner ear, causing brief dizziness that lasts from 20 seconds to one minute. It is usually brought on by trauma to the head or by moving the head in certain positions. Meniere's disease is caused by the buildup of fluid and pressure in the inner ear and can cause dizziness along with ringing in the ears and hearing loss. Less common causes of vertigo can include head or brain injuries or migraines.
You can have your doctor do the maneuver or do it yourself with a BPPV treatment device. Without treatment BPPV often lasts 2 weeks until the particles inside the house (which is actually called the posterior semi-circular canal) fall out or somehow breakup. However, more snow can come in and usually does in about 60% of people. Lets imagine that the inner ear is akin to a tiny snow globe inside the head. In a healthy person the snow inside this globe is actually stuck down but with age the snow comes loose and begins to fly around when disturbed.