Antibody tests for hepatitis C (anti-HCV and RIBA) do not indicate whether the infection is new (acute), chronic, or a past (resolved) infection. PCR A PCR (polymerase chain reaction) is a test that detects hepatitis C virus in the blood. Antibody Tests The first blood test usually done to look for hepatitis C is an antibody test (anti-HCV). A positive anti-HCV result should be verified with a second more accurate test called RIBA ((Recombinant Immunoblot Assay) because anti-HCV tests may produce false positive results.
A positive PCR test means you are currently infected with hepatitis C. Please note: a single negative PCR test does not mean you do not have hepatitis C. Sometime the virus level may be too low for the test to detect it in the blood. If your clinician thinks you have hepatitis C, the PCR test should be repeated. Antibody Tests The first blood test usually done to look for hepatitis C is an antibody test (anti-HCV). A positive anti-HCV result should be verified with a second more accurate test called RIBA ((Recombinant Immunoblot Assay) because anti-HCV tests may produce false positive results.
Hepatitis C tests are used to screen for and diagnose a hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection, to guide therapy and/or to monitor the treatment of an HCV infection. An HCV antibody test is used to screen for infection. It detects the presence of antibodies to the virus, indicating exposure to HCV. This test cannot distinguish between someone with an active or a previous HCV infection.
• A reactive antibody test does not necessarily mean that you currently have Hepatitis C and a follow-up test is needed. What to do if the Hepatitis C Antibody Test is reactive • If the antibody test is reactive, you need an additional test to see if you currently have Hepatitis C. This test is called a RNA test. Another name used for this test is a PCR test. • A non-reactive or negative antibody test means that you are not currently infected with the Hepatitis C virus. • However, if you think you might have been exposed to Hepatitis C in the last 6 months, you will need to be tested again.
The Hepatitis RNA PCR Quantitative test is most commonly ordered by people who are undergoing or have undergone treatment to provide a measure of the virus in their system. This test can also be used as a screening by people who may have had a recent exposure or to confirm the results of a previous Hepatitis C test. Someone who wishes to screen for Hepatitis C but is not concerned about a recent exposure, may wish to order the Hepatitis C Antibodies test. Turnaround for the Hepatitis C RNA PCR Quantitative test is typically 5-7 business days. Note: Result turn around times are an estimate and are not guaranteed.
What to Expect When Getting Tested HEPATITIS C Getting tested for Hepatitis C • A blood test, called a Hepatitis C Antibody Test, is used to find out if someone has ever been infected with Hepatitis C. • The Hepatitis C Antibody Test, sometimes called the Anti-HCV Test, looks for antibodies to the Hepatitis C virus. • A non-reactive or negative antibody test means that you are not currently infected with the Hepatitis C virus. • However, if you think you might have been exposed to Hepatitis C in the last 6 months, you will need to be tested again.
A single positive PCR test indicates infection with HCV. A single negative test does not prove that a person is not infected. Virus may be present in the blood and just not found by PCR. Also, a person infected in the past who has recovered may have a negative test. Hepatitis C is a liver disease caused by the hepatitis C virus (HCV), which is found in the blood of persons who have this disease. HCV is spread by contact with the blood of an infected person. When a person has HIV and Hepatitis C it's called co-infection.
If the RNA test is negative, this means a person does not have Hepatitis C. If the RNA test is positive, this means a person currently has Hepatitis C and should talk to a doctor experienced in diagnosing and treating the disease. For more information Talk to your doctor, call your health department, or. Hepatitis C is a serious liver disease that results from. infection with the Hepatitis C virus. Hepatitis C has. been called a silent disease because people can get. infected and not know it. Some people who get. infected with Hepatitis C are able to clear, or get rid of.
Hepatitis C is spread when blood from a person infected with the Hepatitis C virus enters the body of someone who is not infected. This can happen through different ways including: Injection drug use. Most people become infected with Hepatitis C by sharing needles or other equipment to inject drugs. Hepatitis C is a serious liver disease that results from. infection with the Hepatitis C virus. Hepatitis C has. been called a silent disease because people can get. infected and not know it. Some people who get. infected with Hepatitis C are able to clear, or get rid of.
PCR Test. If the antibody test is positive, your doctor will do a PCR test. It looks for the genetic material of the hepatitis C virus living in your body. If it doesn’t find anything, you might have had hepatitis C in the past and your body cleared it. Your doctor may repeat the test to be sure. Antibody Test. The first way to check for the infection is a blood test for the hepatitis C antibody. Your body makes this when it’s infected with the virus. The doctor can take blood and send it to a lab, or use a rapid test called OraQuick. It gives results in about 20 minutes.