Galactosemia (British galactosaemia) is a rare genetic metabolic disorder that affects an individual's ability to metabolize the sugar galactose properly. Galactosemia follows an autosomal recessive mode of inheritance that confers a deficiency in an enzyme responsible for adequate galactose degradation.
Patterns of inheritance. Observations of the way traits, or characteristics, are passed from one generation to the next in the form of identifiable phenotypes probably represent the oldest form of genetics. 
Galactosemia is inherited in an autosomal recessive pattern. As an autosomal recessive disorder, the parents of a child with galactosemia are unaffected, healthy carriers of the condition and have one normal gene and one abnormal gene. In Illinois, newborn screening for galactosemia is designed to detect classical galactosemia due to a deficiency of the galactose-1-phosphate uridyl transferase (GALT) enzyme; primary screening is performed by fluorometric assay.
Many other disorders are caused by a combination of the effects of multiple genes or by interactions between genes and the environment. Such disorders are more difficult to analyze because their genetic causes are often unclear, and they do not follow the patterns of inheritance described above. Families with an X-linked dominant disorder often have both affected males and affected females in each generation. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons (no male-to-male transmission).
One mutated copy of the gene in each cell is sufficient for a person to be affected by an autosomal dominant disorder. Each affected person usually has one affected parent (illustration). Autosomal dominant disorders tend to occur in every generation of an affected family. Huntington disease, neurofibromatosis type 1. Autosomal recessive. Two mutated copies of the gene are present in each cell when a person has an autosomal recessive disorder. Families with an X-linked dominant disorder often have both affected males and affected females in each generation. A characteristic of X-linked inheritance is that fathers cannot pass X-linked traits to their sons (no male-to-male transmission).
Galactosemia is an inherited defect of galactose metabolism caused by an enzyme deficiency that prevents proper metabolism and utilization of galactose, or milk sugar. The main dietary source of galactose is lactose, the principle carbohydrate found in all forms of milk. In Illinois, newborn screening for galactosemia is designed to detect classical galactosemia due to a deficiency of the galactose-1-phosphate uridyl transferase (GALT) enzyme; primary screening is performed by fluorometric assay.
Galactosemia is a disorder that affects how the body processes a simple sugar called galactose. A small amount of galactose is present in many foods. It is primarily part of a larger sugar called lactose, which is found in all dairy products and many baby formulas. The signs and symptoms of galactosemia result from an inability to use galactose to produce energy. Researchers have identified several types of galactosemia. These conditions are each caused by mutations in a particular gene and affect different enzymes involved in breaking down galactose. Classic galactosemia, also known as type I, is the most common and most severe form of the condition. If infants with classic galactosemia are not treated promptly with a low-galactose diet, life-threatening complications appear within a few days after birth
Inheritance Patterns. Inheritance odds for Tay Sachs: Overall odds of inheritance: Usually both parents who are symptom-free genetic carriers of Tay Sachs; see inheritance of autosomal recessive diseases. Sibling of diseased child odds of inheriting disease: 25% usually for an autosomal recessive disease. Tay Sachs: Inheritance and Genetics Details. Inheritance properties of Tay Sachs: Disease inherited from
Galactosemia type II (also called galactokinase deficiency) and type III (also called galactose epimerase deficiency) cause different patterns of signs and symptoms. Galactosemia type II causes fewer medical problems than the classic type. It is primarily part of a larger sugar called lactose, which is found in all dairy products and many baby formulas. The signs and symptoms of galactosemia result from an inability to use galactose to produce energy. Researchers have identified several types of galactosemia.