The break (fracture) or bruise usually heals in about four weeks. Good pain relief during this time helps you to breathe and cough properly. Simply putting up with the pain is not a good idea, as it can lead to shallow breathing, lack of coughing and chest infections.
The term 'rib injury' usually means rib fracture-that is, a break in one or more of the ribs. Sometimes the ribs are not broken, but there is bruising of ribs or nearby muscles. Rib injuries occur when there is a force to the chest, such as from a fall, road accident or assault.
A blow to the rib cage can cause either a fracture or bruising to the membrane that covers the bone (periosteum). Both can be very painful, and it is very often hard to distinguish the difference, even with a X-ray.
The term rib injury usually means rib fracture-that is, a break in one or more of the ribs. Sometimes the ribs are not broken, but there is bruising of ribs or nearby muscles. Rib injuries occur when there is a force to the chest such as from a fall, road accident or assault.
The costochondral joints are the joints formed by the ribs and the cartilage which attaches them to the breast bone (sternum). A separation of the bone from the cartilage is similar to a joint dislocation. This injury may also be known as a separated rib. A separation of one of the costochondral joints usually occurs after an impact such as a fall onto the side of the body or being hit by something.
The distal tibia and fibula are held tightly together by the syndesmosis membrane, and the anterior and posterior tibiofibular ligaments. A syndesmotic sprain or high ankle sprain is an injury to the distal tibiofibular syndesmosis with possible disruption of the distal tibiofibular ligaments and interosseous membrane. A high ankle sprain usually occurs in combination with medial ligament injuries and/or distal tibia/fibula fractures.
Pleurisy is an inflammation of the membrane that surrounds and protects the lungs (the pleura). Inflammation occurs when an infection or damaging agent irritates the pleural surface. As a consequence, sharp chest pains are the primary symptom of pleurisy.