The Boston Tea Party (initially referred to by John Adams as  the Destruction of the Tea in Boston ) was a political protest by the Sons of Liberty in Boston, on December 16, 1773. The Tea Party became an iconic event of American history, and other political protests such as the Tea Party movement after 2010 explicitly refer to it. The Tea Party was the culmination of a resistance movement throughout British America against the Tea Act, which had been passed by the British Parliament in 1773.
Share to: No, it is not. The Tea Act was a tax passed by Parliament in order to pay for the debt Britain acquired during the French and Indian War. The Boston Tea Party was the response … to it. Basically, the colonists refused to pay taxes without representation in Parliament. 
The news of the Boston Tea Party reached London, England on January 20, 1774, and as a result the British shut down Boston Harbor until all of the 340 chests of British East India Company tea were paid for. This was implemented under the 1774 Intolerable Acts and known as the Boston Port Act. The Boston Tea Party was the first significant act of defiance by American colonists and is a defining event in American history. The implication and impact of the Boston Tea Party were enormous ultimately leading to the start of the American Revolution which began in Massachusetts on April 19, 1775.
The Boston Tea Party. The tax on tea that Parliament had passed greatly affected the tea business in the colonies. The price of tea in the Americas increased, making it more difficult for tea growers, producers, and shippers to survive.
The Tea Act: The Catalyst of the Boston Tea Party. The Tea Act, passed by Parliament on May 10, 1773, granted the British East India Company Tea a monopoly on tea sales in the American colonies. The Tea Act …was what ultimately compelled a group of Sons of Liberty. on the night of December 16, 1773 to disguise themselves as Mohawk Indians, board three ships moored in Boston Harbor, and destroy over 92,000 pounds of British East India Company tea. First edition of the Tea Act of 1773.
The Boston Port Act, the first of the acts passed in response to the Boston Tea Party, closed the port of Boston on June 1, 1774, until the East India Company had been repaid for the destroyed tea and until the king was satisfied that order had been restored. Four of the acts were issued in direct response to the Boston Tea Party of December 1773; the British Parliament hoped these punitive measures would, by making an example of Massachusetts, reverse the trend of colonial resistance to parliamentary authority that had begun with the 1765 Stamp Act.
The Intolerable Acts. In response to the Boston Tea Party, Parliament passed a series of resolutions in 1774 called the Coercive Acts. Massachusetts was placed under martial law, and the Quartering Act was reinstated. 
The Intolerable Acts was the American Patriots ' name for a series of punitive laws passed by the British Parliament in 1774 after the Boston Tea party. Four of the acts were issued in direct response to the Boston Tea Party of December 1773; the British Parliament hoped these punitive measures would, by making an example of Massachusetts, reverse the trend of colonial resistance to parliamentary authority that had begun with the 1765 Stamp Act.