1 Tap the Voicemail icon in the bottom right. 2  If you have deleted messages that haven’t been cleared, the Visual Voicemail list will include an item at the bottom called “Deleted Messages.” Tap it. 3  In that screen, tap the “Clear All” button to permanently delete the messages and free up that valuable disk space. Delete iPhone Voicemails — For Sure. And then it hit me: iPhone voicemails aren’t fully deleted until they’re cleared. Sure, you can mark the voicemails as deleted, but they’re still on the phone — taking up disk space — until you clear them. After I cleared a lot of old voicemails, I recovered about 700MB of space.
Instructions. Open the Phone application on your iPhone by tapping on the Phone app icon on the home screen. Click the Voicemail icon at the bottom right of the Phone application. Press the voicemail that you want to delete. Click the Delete button. Your phone callers are given the option to save recorded messages for you to retrieve later. These messages are called voicemails and are stored in your Phone application. Once you retrieve your voicemail, you can delete it to save storage space.
Finally, you can just tap on each voicemail, and then hit the Delete button. I usually do this if I have to listen to the darn thing. Once you’ve deleted voicemails, they go to a special Deleted Messages area. Scroll to the bottom of your voicemail list and tap on Deleted Messages. Then, either swipe or tap your way to delete the messages individually, or hit the Clear All button at the top right of your screen. Apple has also given us quite a few ways to delete them, and then to clear out the deleted messages (yes, even deleted voicemails stick around). They must hate voicemail as much as I do. Launch your Phone app, and then tap on the Voicemail button in the lower right hand corner of the screen. Next, tap on the Edit button in the upper right corner, and a little red minus button will appear to the left of all your voicemails
Go to your iPhone's voicemail screen by opening the Phone app from the list of apps and touching the Voicemail button. Step 2. Scroll to the bottom of the list of messages and tap Deleted Messages.. Step 3. Tap Clear All to permanently remove from the iPhone all the messages that you had previously deleted. Tap the message that you want to delete and then touch the Delete button. You can also swipe the message to bring up the Delete button. Step 5. Press the Home button to exit the Phone app when you are finished.
Quickly Delete a Voicemail Message on the iPhone. 1  Open the Phone app on the iPhone and tap on the “Voicemail” tab. 2  Swipe left across the voicemail message to summon the red “Delete” button when it appears, then tap on that to delete the message. Delete Voicemails from the iPhone One at a Time or Multiple at Once. Jan 6, 2014 - 9 Comments. If your iPhone voicemail box gets hit up constantly and you actually listen to the messages, each voicemail message gets downloaded locally to the iPhone and takes up some storage space.
Open the Phone application on your iPhone by tapping on the Phone app icon on the home screen. Click the Voicemail icon at the bottom right of the Phone application. Press the voicemail that you want to delete. Your phone callers are given the option to save recorded messages for you to retrieve later. These messages are called voicemails and are stored in your Phone application. Once you retrieve your voicemail, you can delete it to save storage space.
Step 1. Open the Phone app on your iPhone. Select Voicemail from the menu bar across the bottom of the screen. Step 2. Tap on the message you want to delete. Unheard messages display a blue dot to the left of the caller's name or number. Step 3. Press the Delete button to send the message to the trash. Step 4. Scroll to the bottom of the message list and tap on Deleted Messages.. Step 5. Push Clear All to permanently remove all the deleted voicemails.
Step 3. Touch the Voicemail button under the phone keypad. Step 4. Tap the message that you want to delete and then touch the Delete button. You can also swipe the message to bring up the Delete button. Step 5. Press the Home button to exit the Phone app when you are finished.
Level 8 (42,910 points). Once you delete the voicemail, touch the deleted messages link and from there you can select clear all. Maybe I wasn't very clear. What I meant was after you have deleted the single messages, they are in something similar to a folder that is called deleted messages. 