The pancreas has 2 important jobs in the body. The first is to produce the pancreatic digestive juices. The second is to produce insulin and other hormones to do with digestion. The part of the pancreas which produces the digestive juices is called the exocrine pancreas. If the level of sugar in the blood is high, the pancreas makes and secretes more insulin. If the level is too low, it secretes less. If you do not make enough insulin, you have diabetes.
When food enters the stomach, these pancreatic juices are released into a system of ducts that culminate in the main pancreatic duct. The pancreatic duct joins the common bile duct to form the ampulla of Vater which is located at the first portion of the small intestine, called the duodenum. The common bile duct originates in the liver and the gallbladder and produces another important digestive juice called bile. 
Ampullary cancer is a cancer that arises from the Ampulla Vater. The Ampulla Vater is a nipple like projection into the duodenum (the first portion of the intestine) into which the pancreatic and bile ducts open. All of the pancreatic and biliary secretion enter the duodenum through the Ampulla Vater. 
The main pancreatic duct merges with the bile duct in the head of the pancreas to form the ampulla of Vater (a widening of the duct just before it enters the duodenum). Just as was true for bile, the flow of pancreatic fluid is often blocked by tumors of the pancreas, and altered by pancreatic surgery. The pancreatic hormones, insulin and glucagon, work together to maintain the proper level of sugar (glucose) in the blood. Blood sugar is used by the body for energy. An understanding of the two functional components of the pancreas is important for two reasons.
Ampullary (AM-poo-la-ree) cancer is a rare cancer that forms in an area of your digestive system called the ampulla of Vater. The ampulla of Vater is where your bile duct and pancreatic duct join and empty into your small intestine. Ampullary cancer forms near many other parts of the digestive system, such as the liver, pancreas and small intestine. When ampullary cancer grows, it may affect these other organs. 
Search. The ampulla, or ampulla of vater, is where the pancreatic duct and bile duct join together to drain into the duodenum, which is the first part of the small intestine. A polyp of the ampulla starts out benign but can turn into cancer of the ampulla as it grows. Ampullary Polyps. The ampulla, or ampulla of vater, is where the pancreatic duct and bile duct join together to drain into the duodenum, which is the first part of the small intestine.
The ampulla of Vater is a small opening that enters into the first portion of the small intestine, known as the duodenum. The ampulla of Vater is the spot where the pancreatic and bile ducts release their secretions into the intestines. Types of ampullary cancer. True ampullary cancers originate in the ampulla of Vater. They are often confused with periampullary cancers, which originate in the pancreas, bile duct, or intestines close to the ampulla of Vater. In general, cancers that are ampullary have a better survival rate than periampullary cancers.
The pancreas is a secretory structure with a internal hormonal role (endocrine) and an external digestive role (exocrine) . It has two main ducts, the main pancreatic duct, and the accessory pancreatic duct. These drain enzymes through the ampulla of Vater into the duodenum. The pancreas is also a digestive organ, secreting pancreatic juice containing digestive enzymes that assist digestion and absorption of nutrients in the small intestine.