Planet Fitness is an American franchise of fitness centers based in Newington, New Hampshire. Each gym features exercise equipment and fitness instructors to assist its members. It markets itself as a Judgement Free Zone that caters to novice and casual gym users. Planet Fitness currently has 1000 club locations across the US, with recent expansion into Canada.
Planet Fitness CEO Chris Rondeau spoke with Club Industry about the IPO, growth strategy and how it is differs from other publicly traded club companies.... Planet Fitness, Newington, New Hampshire, still does not have a date set for its shares to be traded publicly, but the company noted that it has set its share pricing at $14 to $16 per share, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Monday.... More. More.
CEO Michael Grondahl co-founded Planet Fitness in 1992, branding it as the antifitness fitness club, with cheap memberships and a judgment-free environment for anyone interested in getting off the couch. The decision has paid off. 
Planet Fitness Holdings, LLCis a privately-held fitness center franchise company. Each gym features exercise equipment and personal trainers to assist Planet Fitness members. Planet Fitness is well-known for advertising their gym as a Judgment Free Zone. This Report on Planet Fitness is designed to assist in Planet Fitness research, Planet Fitness analysis, Planet Fitness competitive intelligence, Planet Fitness SWOT analysis, and obtaining Planet Fitness company information.
A Planet Fitness location in Revere, Massachusetts in November 2012. Planet Fitness locations in the United States. The fitness club was founded in 1992, when Michael Grondahl acquired a financially struggling gym and dramatically reduced prices to compete against better-known brands. Planet Fitness currently has 1000 club locations across the US, with recent expansion into Canada.
World Headquarters Career Opportunities. We are consistently ranked as one of Inc. Magazine’s 500 fastest growing companies, Planet Fitness is an exciting growth company taking the fitness industry by storm. Founded in 1992, we’ve revolutionized the industry with our combination of affordable prices, great value, and non-intimidating Judgement Free Zone®. 
Planet Fitness IPO Expected Thursday on NYSE. Planet Fitness estimates it will receive profits of $128.3 million from the IPO, offering 13.5 million shares of Class A stock between $14 and $16 per share.... Planet Fitness, Newington, New Hampshire, still does not have a date set for its shares to be traded publicly, but the company noted that it has set its share pricing at $14 to $16 per share, according to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Monday.... More. More.
Planet Fitness Revenue Model`. Planet Fitness operates a low-price-model where gym memberships are just $10 per month. Planet Fitness keeps prices low by concentrating their business on facilities and equipment for occasional or first-time club users as opposed to the hard-core fitness enthusiasts. This Report on Planet Fitness is designed to assist in Planet Fitness research, Planet Fitness analysis, Planet Fitness competitive intelligence, Planet Fitness SWOT analysis, and obtaining Planet Fitness company information.
Companies in this industry operate fitness and recreational sports facilities that offer fitness equipment, exercise classes, swimming pools, and fitness instruction services. 