Staying Healthy and Avoiding Exacerbations. An acute exacerbation of COPD is a flare-up or episode when your breathing gets worse than usual and you become sick. It is most often linked to an infection. Exacerbations can be serious, causing you to call your health care provider, go to the emergency room, or stay overnight in the hospital. 
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is the 4th leading cause of death in the United States and is a major cause of morbidity (CDC, 2011). COPD is a group of diseases which cause airflow blockage and breathing related problems such as emphysema, chronic bronchitis, and some forms of asthma (CDC, 2011). COPD kills more than 120,000 Americans each year and is expected to be the 3rd leading cause of death in the United States by 2020. According to results of the Burden of Obstructive Lung Disease (BOLD) study, Kentucky is ranked one of the highest areas in the world for COPD cases (Mannino, 2008).
You and your doctor should create a written plan of action for acute exacerbations. This plan may include: 1  Using more of your bronchodilators and using them more often. 2  Adding an inhaled steroid to your routine or increasing the dose if you are already taking one. 3  Using antibiotics. 4  Using a brief “burst” of oral steroids. 5  Eating properly and drinking plenty of water.
People with chronic illnesses and disabilities especially benefit from patient teaching. In order to avoid complications from chronic illnesses and disabilities, patients must be well informed about their disease and an effective plan of care must be developed by the health care team. My patient, PS, is a 39 year old female with a COPD exacerbation. In addition to COPD, her past medical history includes myotonic muscular dystrophy, hypertension, and obesity.
When it comes to living with COPD, it's important to have a plan in place. Since you and your goals are unique, work with your healthcare team to create a plan that's right for you. 
Action plans with limited patient education only for exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Walters JA(1), Turnock AC, Walters EH, Wood-Baker R. Author information: (1)Menzies Research Institute, University of Tasmania, MS1, 17 Liverpool Street, PO Box 23, Hobart, Tasmania, Australia, 7001. Use of action plans was associated with increased initiation of treatment for acute exacerbations. Oral corticosteroid use was increased over 12 months (MD 0.74; 95% CI 0.14 to 1.35) with a significant increase in odds of being treated with antibiotics over 12 months (odds ratio 1.65; 95% CI 1.01 to 2.69).
33.5% of Medicare home care patients have conditions related to diseases of the circulatory system as their principal diagnosis. Because of the large population with COPD and CHH, Black Stone Home Healthcare specializes in disease management and education for those common health issues. In fact, our patient education booklet, “Managing COPD,” outlines instructions for using and cleaning the nebulizer, along with instructions on how to clear lungs, proper diet, and other helpful information for COPD patients. Ask your Black Stone liaison for a copy.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There is evidence that action plans with limited COPD education aid recognition of, and response to, an exacerbation with initiation of antibiotics and corticosteroids. Only one study measured patients' self health appropriate behaviour (decision making and taking action). Use of action plans was associated with increased initiation of treatment for acute exacerbations. Oral corticosteroid use was increased over 12 months (MD 0.74; 95% CI 0.14 to 1.35) with a significant increase in odds of being treated with antibiotics over 12 months (odds ratio 1.65; 95% CI 1.01 to 2.69).
Update of Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2005;(4):CD005074. BACKGROUND: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a progressive disease characterised by exacerbations, usually infective in origin, which affect symptoms and quality of life. Use of action plans was associated with increased initiation of treatment for acute exacerbations. Oral corticosteroid use was increased over 12 months (MD 0.74; 95% CI 0.14 to 1.35) with a significant increase in odds of being treated with antibiotics over 12 months (odds ratio 1.65; 95% CI 1.01 to 2.69).