Belize City is the largest city in the Central American country of Belize and was once the capital of the former British Honduras. According to the 2010 census, Belize City has a population of 57,169 people in 16,162 households. It is located at the mouth of the Haulover Creek, which is a tributary of the Belize River. 
Belize is a top destination for scuba diving and snorkeling thanks to more than 150 miles of reefs that contribute to the second longest reef system in the world -- after the Great Barrier Reef in Australia. Belize is not known as a shopping mecca, but its privately owned shops provide a variety of authentic goods. Second only to El Salvador as the smallest country in Central America, the majority of the Belize mainland is blanketed in forests. The country is gaining in popularity among tourists, particularly cruise passengers who flock to the area's Mayan ruins and Western Caribbean water
Destination Belize, this page is about many aspects of the country what was known as British Honduras until 1973. Here you will find comprehensive information about Belize in its diversity: geography, economy, science, people, culture, environment, government, and history. 
Belize is considered a Central American and Caribbean nation with strong ties to both the Latin American and Caribbean regions. Belize's national animal is the Baird's tapir, the largest land mammal of the American tropics. It is also known as the mountain cow, although it is actually related to the horse and the rhinoceros. It is protected under Belizean law.
Ambergris Caye is the largest island in Belize, and the main destination for travellers to this western Caribbean nation. San Pedro Town is the only town on the island. Ambergris Caye has been the hub of the areas maritime trade for centuries. 
Belize (/bəˈliːz/) is a country on the eastern coast of Central America. It is the only country in Central America whose official language is English, though Belizean Creole (Kriol) and Spanish are also commonly spoken. Belize is bordered on the north by Mexico, on the south and west by Guatemala, and on the east by the Caribbean Sea. Its mainland is about 290 km (180 mi) long and 110 km (68 mi) wide. Belize's national animal is the Baird's tapir, the largest land mammal of the American tropics. It is also known as the mountain cow, although it is actually related to the horse and the rhinoceros. It is protected under Belizean law.
Belize was the British Colony until 1962 and is now an  independent nation within the Commonwealth.    Belize has the 2nd largest barrier reef in the world.  It is th … e second smallest country in Central America.  It's the only country in Central America to have English as an  official language.  It's the 2nd poorest country in Central America. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Belize is known for its tropical rainforest, Mayan temples, and second longest barrier reef. (Belize Barrier Reef) Belize is known for its beautiful barrier reef and scuba diving tourism.
According to the Columbia Encyclopedia, Belize is bounded on the N by Mexico, on the S and W by Guatemala, and on the E by the Caribbean..   … See the Related Links for more information on Answers.com about Belize, as well as for a map showing the location of Belize. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Belize is known for its tropical rainforest, Mayan temples, and second longest barrier reef. (Belize Barrier Reef) Belize is known for its beautiful barrier reef and scuba diving tourism.