Platinum as of 26/2/09 is 1,049.50 USD an ounce Gold is 947.79 USD an ounce. Platinum is normally more valuble than gold because it is rarer and has a large number of uses in … industry. Gold just looks pretty but does not have many industrial applications.
October of 2014 is bringing up an interesting case in which gold prices are almost identical to the price of platinum. On Wednesday, gold prices were trading at $1,245 per ounce while platinum prices were closer to $1,270.
Platinum is generally supposed to be worth more than gold per ounce. After all, it is more rare, considered more precious and harder to work with. That basic assumption changes through time, and sometimes the price of platinum and gold can invert.
Platinum is rare - 30 times rarer than gold. It is found in very few places throughout the world, mostly in South Africa, although it is also found in Russia and Canada, which means that it often incurs higher transportation costs than gold. The mining of platinum is a difficult, time-intensive process.
Platinum is more precious than Gold or Silver. Platinum possesses high resistance to chemical attack, excellent high-temperature characteristics, and stable electrical properties.
Experts say that platinum has a lifespan three times as long as that of gold. Additionally, platinum is more rare than gold. The more rare anything is, the more it's going to cost. Sensitive skin and/or tendency towards allergic reactions also lead some people to buy platinum rings.
Platinum tends to be worth more than gold by weight, but as prices  fluctuate, sometimes the gold price does go higher than the  platinum price. Silver, at least in recent h … istory (probably all of  history) is worth significantly less than both gold and platinum.
Platinum tends to be worth more than gold by weight, but as prices  fluctuate, sometimes the gold price does go higher than the  platinum price. Silver, at least in recent h … istory (probably all of  history) is worth significantly less than both gold and platinum.