A makiwara is considered an essential instrument for karate training. For many years I thought of the makiwara as my lifelong companion. I trained dilligently with it for 24 years. No matter what the circumstance, I never missed a single day of training with it.
Makiwara Training by Lawrence Kane Disclaimer: Makiwara training can be dangerous if undertaken incorrectly. Use only a properly built makiwara, performing all techniques under the guidance and supervision of a qualified instructor. Makiwara training is essential because it develops your technique, your kime (focus).
The makiwara is a padded striking post used as a training tool in various styles of traditional karate. It is thought to be uniquely Okinawan in origin. The makiwara is one form of hojo undō, a method of supplementary conditioning used by Okinawan martial artists.
The makiwara is a essential training device for the Okinawan karateka. Rarely seen outside Okinawan styles, the makiwara is basically a board about 4 feet long, padded at one end and anchored at the other. The makiwara can be an invaluable teacher.
The makiwara is used by karate practitioners to practice strikes in much the same way as a boxer uses a heavy bag.
A makiwara is the cornerstone of the martial artist. Famous Okinawan karate masters used to say that a dojo without a makiwara is not a dojo. Although sometimes misunderstood, the main purpose of makiwara training is not to build calluses on one’s knuckles and “toughen” one’s fists.
Others claim that training with a makiwara can lead to damaged hands and wrists and should be avoided. While makiwara training is still widely used throughout the world, many schools do not offer makiwara training. Alternate training tools are often used instead to develop good kime and impact. For example, impact pads, focus mitts, ceiling to floor ball, etc.
The makiwara is a padded striking post used as a training tool in various styles of traditional karate. It is thought to be uniquely Okinawan in origin. The makiwara is one form of hojo undō, a method of supplementary conditioning used by Okinawan martial artists.