Peacock (Peafowl) foods include grains, insects, small reptiles, small mammals, berries, drupes, wild figs, and some cultivated crops. Peafowl are omnivorous and eat most plan … t parts, flower petals, seed heads, insects and other arthropods, reptiles, and amphibians. Peacocks eat ticks, termites, ants, locusts, mice, plant parts, flower petals, seed heads, scorpions, other arthropods, reptiles, and amphibians. Insects, nuts, seeds, small vertabrates like lizards, fruits.
Male peacocks are known as peacocks and female peacocks are known as peahens (in a similar way to chickens and pheasants). The male is peacock is generally about twice the size of the female peahen, and even larger when the male peacock is displaying his plumage (feathers). When the male peacock does not have his brightly coloured and very elaborate tail feathers on display, they drag behind him. This is known as a tail or a train. During the mating season, the male peacock may mate with up to six different female peahens.
Best Answer: Peacocks, like other ground birds in their family which include Pheasants, Grouse, Quail, wild Turkeys and Chickens, feed on seeds, nuts, and grain that they find on the ground, and any insect they can catch. A good food for you to feed the Peacocks would be a good quality Chicken feed. Something with corn, and wheat, and barley, and other goodies in it. In my book, the most beautiful bird on the planet is the Peacock. These truly magnificent birds were originally from Asia where they roam wild in the tropical forests.
Impressive plumage often indicates a healthy bird. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Peacocks are male peafowl, a type of pheasant that also includes the female peahen. No matter the species of peacock, these colorful creatures boast impressively sized and patterned plumage that they fan out for display purposes. 
Peafowl (Pavo cristatus) are beautiful birds that are native to Southeast Asia. The male peafowl is called a peacock; the female peafowl is called a peahen. In the wild, they live in deciduous tropical rainforests. Peacocks do not migrate. A group of peafowl is called a muster. Anatomy: The male peafowl, the peacock, is about 7 feet long with a full train. The female, the peahen, is about 3 feet long.
Peacock video. 1  Peacocks are large, colorful pheasants (typically blue and green) known for their iridescent tails. 2  These tail feathers, or coverts, spread out in a distinctive train that is more than 60 percent of the bird’s total body length and boast colorful eye markings of blue, gold, red, and other hues. 1 Peacocks are large, colorful pheasants (typically blue and green) known for their iridescent tails. 2  These tail feathers, or coverts, spread out in a distinctive train that is more than 60 percent of the bird’s total body length and boast colorful eye markings of blue, gold, red, and other hues.
Peacocks are large, colorful pheasants (typically blue and green) known for their iridescent tails. These tail feathers, or coverts, spread out in a distinctive train that is more than 60 percent of the bird’s total body length and boast colorful eye markings of blue, gold, red, and other hues. Females are peahens, and together, they are called peafowl. Suitable males may gather harems of several females, each of which will lay three to five eggs. In fact, wild peafowl often roost in forest trees and gather in groups called parties. Peacocks are ground-feeders that eat insects, plants, and small creatures.