Average human body temperature. Body temperature changes throughout the day. It is the lowest in the early morning between 4 and 6 a.m., and the highest in the early evening between 6 and 8 p.m. Normal temperature is about 37°C or 98.6°F.
Most people think of a normal body temperature as an oral temperature of 98.6°F (37°C) . This is an average of normal body temperatures. Your temperature may actually be 1°F (0.6°C) or more above or below
Although it is commonly thought that 98.6 degrees Fahrenheit is the average oral temperature for an adult, normal temperature can range from 97.1 degrees to about 99.5 degrees. It is a good idea to determine your own normal body temperature by taking your temperature when you feel well.
A fever occurs when the body temperature rises above normal. The normal body temperature is between 36 and 37°C, but this can vary from person to person and from hour to hour. Temperatures between 37.5°C and 38.2°C mark a low-grade fever. A high-grade fever is present when the oral temperature is above 38.2°C.
Body temperature also varies at different parts of the body. Oral temperatures, which are the most convenient type of temperature measurement, is at 37.0 °C. This is the accepted standard temperature for the normal core body temperature. Axillary temperatures are an external measurement taken in the armpit or between two folds of skin on the body. This is the longest and most inaccurate way of measuring body temperature, the normal temperature falls at 97.6 °F or 36.4 °C.
The normal body temperature of 98.6°F (37°C) is actually an average of temperatures. A person's normal temperature can fluctuate 1°F (0.6°C) or more or below 98.6; additionally, the body temperature fluctuates the same amount throughout the day-lower in the morning and evening while higher at mid-day.
Most people think of a normal body temperature as an oral temperature of 98.6°F (37°C) . This is an average of normal body temperatures. Your temperature may actually be 1°F (0.6°C) or more above or below