1 Do-it-yourself materials cost about $10-$15 a square face foot. 2  ThisOldHouse.com provides a video showing how to build a block wall, calling the project challenging and estimating it will take two people 8-10 hours for a low wall 10-16 feet long. 1 Material and labor for a wood retaining wall runs approximately $20-$25 a square face foot (and there's usually a minimum charge for small projects), which would be about $1,000-$1,300 for a 50-square-face-foot wall.
1 Materials and installation for a stone retaining wall start around $25-$40 a square face foot and go up depending on materials, site conditions, and other factors. 2  It costs $1,250-$2,000 or more for a wall 30 inches high and 20 feet long. 1 Material and labor for a wood retaining wall runs approximately $20-$25 a square face foot (and there's usually a minimum charge for small projects), which would be about $1,000-$1,300 for a 50-square-face-foot wall.
Brick Walls-Pricing and Installation Cost Notes. Homewyse cost estimates are approximate ranges for basic work in typical conditions. The estimates should only be used for preliminary planning. Homewyse estimates are NOT substitutes for quotes from qualified vendors. Do you need to know the average cost to install Brick Walls in your zip code? Do you need an easy-to-understand 2015 estimate of Brick Wall job options and costs? Get pricing INSTANTLY.
Cost of Materials. The cost of adding a new wall to a home depends on the material used. Brick walls are often an affordable option, and a hollow brick wall costs around $25.40 per square foot. Hollow bricks feature a unique design with a durable shell and a hollow space in the center of each brick. Traditional brick walls cost around $14.10 per square foot. A natural stone wall will cost around $8 to $12 per square foot based on the type of stone chosen. A concrete block wall costs $6.10 to $7.60 per linear foot. Homeowners will also need to pay for any other materials needed, including steel bars, sand to keep the stones from rubbing against each other and mortar
1. The cost of the bricks can vary greatly depending on the type of brick and the quantity required. 2.The cost of cement in the mortar can also vary depending on what type is required and how strong a mix is needed, also if you need to colour the mortar this also needs to be alocated for in your calculations. 
Homeowners planning on the installation of a brick wall will have some additional costs beyond the purchase of the main material for the project. Bricks must be bonded together with mortar. The mortar and other supplies to construct a brick wall add an average of $1.20 per finished square foot of wall. A brick wall may be constructed by a handyman, masonry specialist or a general contractor. The average cost per hour for a handyman or general contractor to install a brick wall is $44.50. The average cost per hour to hire a masonry specialist for the construction of a brick wall is $62.
How Much Does Brick Cost? The day you buy your brick home, the total cost should be in this range: 6 to 7% more than vinyl; 3 to 4% more than fiber cement; or 10 to 19% less than stone--for a home in the $250,000, 2,500 square foot range. The extra upfront cost for brick translates into only a small increase in your monthly mortgage payments, likely no more than $50 per month for a $250,000 house. 2. Every year, compare d to vinyl and fiber cement siding, you will save up to 5% on homeowners insurance.
The overall cost of your brick wall will vary considerably depending upon the materials you use to construct it. Brick can be an affordable option, but there are different types of bricks. Hollow bricks cost between $23 and $29 per square foot, while traditional brick costs closer to $14 per square foot. Hollow bricks are going to cost about double per square foot compared to traditional bricks. Hollow bricks are made of a durable outer shell with a hollow center. Mitigating factors may include how big you want your brick wall to be, or how difficult of a location you plan to build the wall. According to industry averages, people spend anywhere from $4,000 to $20,000 installing a brick wall.