Noun. 1. ecosystem-a system formed by the interaction of a community of organisms with their physical environment. system, scheme-a group of independent but interrelated elements comprising a unified whole; a vast system of production and distribution and consumption keep the country going. Translations.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. An ecosystem is a natural system consisting of all plants, animals and microorganisms, which function with all the physical factors of the environment. The term ecosystem was coined in 1930 by Roy Clapham, to denote the physical and biological components of an environment considered in relation to each other as a unit. 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: ecosystem (Noun). A system formed by an ecological community and its environment that functions as a unit. ecosystem (Noun). The interconnectedness of organisms (plants, animals, microbes) with each other and their environment. An ecosystem is a community of living organisms in conjunction with the nonliving components of their environment, interacting as a system. These biotic and abiotic components are regarded as linked together through nutrient cycles and energy flows.
An ecosystem is the combined system that comprises animals, plants, and other organisms, all living together and interacting with one another. A natural ecosystem is a complex community that functions as an  ecological unit in nature. Its two main components are biotic and  abiotic factors, which are living and non … -living things that  interact with each other.
An ecosystem is a natural system consisting of all plants, animals and microorganisms, which function with all the physical factors of the environment. A natural ecosystem is a complex community that functions as an  ecological unit in nature. Its two main components are biotic and  abiotic factors, which are living and non … -living things that  interact with each other.
• ECOSYSTEM (noun). The noun ECOSYSTEM has 1 sense: 1. a system formed by the interaction of a community of organisms with their physical environment. Familiarity information: ECOSYSTEM used as a noun is very rare. 
An ecosystem is a community of living organisms in conjunction with the nonliving components of their environment (things like air, water and mineral soil), interacting as a system. These biotic and abiotic components are regarded as linked together through nutrient cycles and energy flows. The relationship between the abiotic components and the biotic components of the ecosystem is termed 'holocoenosis'.
Ecosystem. An ecosystem is a community of living organisms in conjunction with the nonliving components of their environment, interacting as a system. These biotic and abiotic components are regarded as linked together through nutrient cycles and energy flows.
What is an Ecosystem? An ecosystem includes all of the living things (plants, animals and organisms) in a given area, interacting with each other, and also with their non-living environments (weather, earth, sun, soil, climate, atmosphere). In an ecosystem, each organism has its' own niche, or role to play. 