Share it ! It’s all about speed, power, endurance and bike handling skills. Enduro is the ultimate all-mountain challenge; a growing genre of off road racing that pits cardio and strength against nerve and skill. 
Enduro's 'All Mountain' discipline therefore favours riders with a breadth of skill, on multi discipline cycles; lightweight XC bikes may lack sufficient suspension travel for fast downhill control, whilst full DH bikes may not allow a rider to climb the uphill sections. Enduro differs from XC cross-country cycling racing (which historically has more emphasis on cardiovascular fitness and less emphasis on technical ability) and pure downhill cycling racing formats, which may contain little to no climbing or cross country skills.
Most enduro racers opt for a full-suspension trail or all-mountain bike with 140mm to 170mm of travel. There’s nothing in the rules to stop you using a hardtail or lightweight cross-country bike but you’ll find it hard work on the descents, while longer-travel freeride and downhill bikes are a drag on the climbs. Enduro downhill events like France's Megavalanche and Mountain of Hell are what kicked the whole craze off – long-distance races down big mountains, with mass-starts and short uphill sections to keep racers on their toes, and snow and ice on the upper slopes adding to the fun!
Enduro is a form of Mountain bike racing in which there is a greater proportion of downhill sections, which are timed, to uphill and cross country sections. This aims to test rider's technical bike handling skills as well as providing endurance and climbing. Enduro differs from XC cross-country cycling racing (which historically has more emphasis on cardiovascular fitness and less emphasis on technical ability) and pure downhill cycling racing formats, which may contain little to no climbing or cross country skills.
Enduro MTB Suspension Fork Buying Guide. With Enduro being one of the newer sectors in MTB, manufacturers are now offering bikes with a complete setup that is close to or as close as is acceptable for trail riding and Enduro racing. One of the key elements of an Enduro or trail bike that rides well, is the front fork. We thought it would be a good idea to highlight some of the features found on suspension forks and discuss what in our experience are the best fork brands and/or feature setups for riding and racing. 
For anyone who has been to Bend to ride, The Super D and now the Enduro race is run on part of the old Storm King Trail and what is called the Funner Trail. Fast and tight, you bet, some light free ride, check, some downhill that you have to have your seat post slammed on, check. The Genius LT is an enduro/am machine! one of the most fun bike (overall) Ive ever ridden, you can lock it out and climb like a hardtail, unlock to 4inch for flat trails, and open it up to 7inches for DH and bike park fun. If you want to get better, just ride.
Downhill racing requires balls of steel and expensive kit, and cross-country is largely about fitness, but anyone with a decent trail bike and enough stamina to ride their local singletrack for a couple of hours can have a bash at enduro. Enduro downhill events like France's Megavalanche and Mountain of Hell are what kicked the whole craze off – long-distance races down big mountains, with mass-starts and short uphill sections to keep racers on their toes, and snow and ice on the upper slopes adding to the fun!
Apart from these points it is the overall setup of the bike that is the biggest indicator to what an Enduro bike is and despite the visible increase of the Enduro factor in the market place, it is still very hard to buy a complete bike that has the features that riders use on an Enduro race bike. Suspension. This depends on the type of wheels and frame, it is better to opt for a 36mm fork with a 20mm axle if you want excellent strength and control, the lighter 34 forks with 15mm axles still flex too much in our opinion and are still too much of a compromise compared to a solid feeling 36mm fork.
The engine of an enduro bike is usually a single cylinder 2-stroke between 125 cc and 360 cc, or 4-stroke between 195 and 650 cc. A large and powerful engine is not always an advantage, and riders may prefer smaller bikes that are lighter and more maneuverable. There may exist several design differences between enduro motorcycles and moto/supercross bikes, according to the rules of the particular competition. For an enduro event such as endurocross (Enduro-X), these may include: