from the link: The Gerbera daisy (Gerbera Jamesonii) is a perennial plant native to a South Africa; it is often referred to as African daisy. These brightly colored daisy-like blooms grow to 10 to 18 inches high and attract butterflies and bees to the garden.
Gerbera daisy flowers are grown as perennials in planting zones 9-11. Elsewhere, they are treated as annual plants. In zone 8 some homeowners report success in growing them as perennials, especially if garden mulch is used to furnish them with some protection from the cold in winter. In the South, gerbera daisy flowers are popular in perennial beds. Northern gardeners sometimes treat them as annuals and use these tropical plants as colorful accents in beds populated chiefly by less-expensive annual flowers.
Gerbera daisies are often grown indoors. Also known as Transvaal daisy, Gerbera daisy (Gerbera jamesonii), is a daisy-like bloomer that comes in a variety of jewel tones. The impressive flowers, which grow on top of single, tall stems, are complemented by mounds of slightly fuzzy leaves. At maturity, Gerbera daisy reaches heights of 8 to 24 inches, depending on the variety. Although Gerbera daisies are often grown as annuals, they are perennial in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 8 to 11. Plant Gerbera daisy bedding plants in the garden when all danger of spring frosts have passed
Overwintering. In cooler areas where gerbera daisies are generally treated as annuals, you can overwinter them in pots in a sheltered, frost-free area that receives bright light. Water only enough to prevent the rootball from drying out. These plants put down deep taproots and don't transplant well once established. They produce multiple single-stem flowers that are 10 to 14 inches tall in yellow, pink, orange, red and white. Sometimes called Transvaal daisies for their South African origins, gerbera daisies can be treated as annuals or a perennials depending on your climate and your commitment to the plant.
The cheerful, candy-colored blooms of gerbera daisies (Gerbera jamesonii) can grab an unwary gardener's attention at a grocery or home improvement store. They produce multiple single-stem flowers that are 10 to 14 inches tall in yellow, pink, orange, red and white. Sometimes called Transvaal daisies for their South African origins, gerbera daisies can be treated as annuals or a perennials depending on your climate and your commitment to the plant.
While in much of the country Gerbera daisies are only grown as seasonal annuals, Florida gardeners are lucky enough to grow and enjoy these bright flowers nearly year-round. Gerbera daisies do well in containers and as perennial bedding plants in Central and South Florida. In areas where prolonged freezes are likely they should be treated as annuals or over-wintered indoors.
The Gerber Daisy has vibrant colored flowers. This Daisy is considered an annual and also a tender perennial. It is native to South Africa, Europe, Asia, and sub-tropical to tropical climates in the United States. The flower specimen is one of my favorites to plant in a variety of garden settings. Herbee loves to take a few of these metal containers and plant annual or perennial flowers in them. Put on deck, porch, or patio, or an interior room. Container make great gifts. The daisies are wonderful annual or perennial flowers to plant in the ground. Also in a container garden.
General Care: Whether you are growing gerbera daisies as perennials or as annuals, as houseplants or as landscape plants, water them faithfully; and fertilize regularly with an all-purpose fertilizer for optimal blooming. They are susceptible to crown rot, so don't plant them too deeply. In the South, gerbera daisy flowers are popular in perennial beds. Northern gardeners sometimes treat them as annuals and use these tropical plants as colorful accents in beds populated chiefly by less-expensive annual flowers.