1 EC 3.1.26.5: RNase P is a type of ribonuclease that is unique in that it is a ribozyme – a ribonucleic acid that acts as a catalyst in the same way as an enzyme. 2  Its function is to cleave off an extra, or precursor, sequence on tRNA molecules. 1 RNase A (e.g. , bovine pancreatic ribonuclease A: PDB: 2AAS ​) is one of the hardiest enzymes in common laboratory usage; one method of isolating it is to boil a crude cellular extract until all enzymes other than RNase A are denatured.
RNA is an acronym for  r ibo n ucleic a cid. RNA is a polymer composed of four different repeating units: Adenosine, Cytosine, Guanosine and Uridine (A, C, G, and U). One can think about RNA as a long necklace made out of four different colored beads or letters.
Ribonucleic acid (RNA) is a polymeric molecule implicated in various biological roles in coding, decoding, regulation, and expression of genes. RNA and DNA are nucleic acids, and, along with proteins and carbohydrates, constitute the three major macromolecules essential for all known forms of life. Messenger RNA (mRNA) is the RNA that carries information from DNA to the ribosome, the sites of protein synthesis (translation) in the cell. The coding sequence of the mRNA determines the amino acid sequence in the protein that is produced.
Biotechnology Index Glossary Nucleases: DNase and RNase Most of the time nucleases are the enemy of the molecular biologist who is trying to preserve the integrity of RNA or DNA samples. However, deoxyribonucleases (DNases) and ribonucleases (RNases) have certain indispensible roles in molecular biology laboratories. The most widely used nucleases are DNase I and RNase A, both of which are purified from bovine pancreas : Deoxyribonuclease I cleaves double-stranded or single stranded DNA. Cleavage preferentially occurs adjacent to pyrimidine (C or T) residues, and the enzyme is therefore an endonuclease.
RNase A is an important enzyme for the removal of RNA for RNA free DNA purification reactions such as plasmid DNA purification and genomic DNA purification, RNA removal from recombinant protein preparations, Ribonuclease protection assays, mapping single-base mutations in DNA/RNA. 
Some RNA molecules play an active role within cells by catalyzing biological reactions, controlling gene expression, or sensing and communicating responses to cellular signals. One of these active processes is protein synthesis, a universal function wherein mRNA molecules direct the assembly of proteins on ribosomes. This process uses transfer RNA (tRNA) molecules to deliver amino acids to the ribosome, where ribosomal RNA (rRNA) then links amino acids together to form proteins. Messenger RNA (mRNA) is the RNA that carries information from DNA to the ribosome, the sites of protein synthesis (translation) in the cell. The coding sequence of the mRNA determines the amino acid sequence in the protein that is produced.
Enzymatic Reaction (image will open in a new window). Pancreatic ribonuclease (RNase) is an endoribonuclease. It catalyzes the cleavage of the phosphodiester bond between the 5’-ribose of a nucleotide and the phosphate group attached to the 3’-ribose of an adjacent pyrimidine nucleotide. 
RNA–in this role–is the “DNA photocopy” of the cell. When the cell needs to produce a certain protein, it activates the protein’s gene –the portion of DNA that codes for that protein–and produces multiple copies of that piece of DNA in the form of messenger RNA, or mRNA. A central tenet of molecular biology states that the flow of genetic information in a cell is from DNA through RNA to proteins: “DNA makes RNA makes protein”. Proteins are the workhorses of the cell; they play leading roles in the cell as enzymes, as structural components, and in cell signaling, to name just a few.
1 EC 3.1.27.5: RNase A is an RNase that is commonly used in research. 2  RNase A (e.g. , bovine pancreatic ribonuclease A: PDB: 2AAS ​) is one of the hardiest enzymes in common laboratory usage; one method of isolating it is to boil a crude cellular extract until all enzymes other than RNase A are denatured. 1