1 The churning action of the stomach muscles physically breaks down the food. 2  The stomach releases acids and enzymes for the chemical breakdown of food. 3  The enzyme pepsin is responsible for protein breakdown. 4  The stomach releases food into the small intestine in a controlled and regulated manner. The cardia is the first portion of the stomach and is where food content passes from the esophagus into the stomach. The acids and enzymes referred to as the gastric juices are manufactured in the cardia. The fundus stores undigested food and also the gases released from the chemical digestion of food.
45. In humans, chemical digestion is accomplished by enzyme action that begins in the mouth and ends in the (a.) liver (b.) small intestine (c.) gall bladder (d.) stomach. Just for fun, identify the lettered structures on the human digestion diagram which follows. 
Chemical digestion that occurs in the stomach is mainly via enzymes and hydrochloric acid. The stomach secretes pepsinogen which turns into pepsin and breaks down proteins. The hydrochloric acid provides a low pH level in which the enzymes can thrive. Chemical digestion is the breaking down of food particles through chemical reactions. Chemical and mechanical digestion combine to process food, absorbing nutrients and minerals and discarding the waste.
Mechanical digestion involves physically breaking the food into smaller pieces. Mechanical digestion begins in the mouth as the food is chewed. Chemical digestion involves breaking down the food into simpler nutrients that can be used by the cells. Chemical digestion begins in the mouth when food mixes with saliva. Saliva contains an enzyme (amylase) that begins the breakdown of carbohydrates. The organs produce digestive chemicals (enzymes and acids) that break down the nutrients into simpler forms so that absorption through the intestinal wall and into the blood stream can occur. Mechanical and Chemical Digestion. There are two kinds of digestion: mechanical and chemical.
The teeth chop the food up into smaller pieces which then pass through the digestive system. Chemical digestion is the breaking down of food particles through chemical reactions. Chemical and mechanical digestion combine to process food, absorbing nutrients and minerals and discarding the waste. Very little mechanical digestion occurs outside of the mouth
Mechanical digestion occurs only in Mouth and Stomach alone. Bile juice helps the breakage of food in the liver.So it is absolutely Chemical. Vishnu · 5 years ago. Thumbs up. Bile is a material that travels to the first part of the small intestine and mixes with the partially digested food and through chemical reactions breaks down fatty food into something a bit more usable.
Several specialized compartments occur along this length: mouth, pharynx, esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine, and anus. Accessory digestive organs are connected to the main system by a series of ducts: salivary glands, parts of the pancreas, and the liver and gall bladder (bilary system). The digestive system uses mechanical and chemical methods to break food down into nutrient molecules that can be absorbed into the blood. Once in the blood, the food molecules are routed to every cell in the animal's body. There are two types of animal body plans as well as two locations fordigestion to occur.
Locations of mechanical and chemical digestion. Mechanical digestion occurs in the mouth and stomach, Segmentation is the back and fourth mixing of food in stomach. Chemical digestion occurs in the stomach were Hcl and pepsin forms chyme, the mouth in which salivary amylase breaks down starch to form bolus, and the small intestine specifically the duodenum. 