Early Life. Singer and actress Demi Lovato was born on August 20, 1992, in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Lovato's mother, Dianna Lovato, was a former country music recording artist and Dallas Cowboy Cheerleader. Lovato is the middle child of three sisters. In 2007, Demi Lovato got a part on a short Disney Channel show called As the Bell Rings, and then she landed the starring role of the movie Camp Rock. While filming Camp Rock, Demi Lovato began also recording three songs for the film's soundtrack and has had several solo releases since.
Singer and actress Demi Lovato was born on August 20, 1992, in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Lovato's mother, Dianna Lovato, was a former country music recording artist and Dallas Cowboy Cheerleader. In 2007, Demi Lovato got a part on a short Disney Channel show called As the Bell Rings, and then she landed the starring role of the movie Camp Rock. While filming Camp Rock, Demi Lovato began also recording three songs for the film's soundtrack and has had several solo releases since.
In 2007, Demi Lovato began working with the Disney Channel. First she got a part on a short television show called As The Bell Rings. Her role on that ended, however, when Lovato was cast as Mitchie Torres in the starring role of the Disney Channel movie Camp Rock. In 2007, Demi Lovato got a part on a short Disney Channel show called As the Bell Rings, and then she landed the starring role of the movie Camp Rock. While filming Camp Rock, Demi Lovato began also recording three songs for the film's soundtrack and has had several solo releases since.
Demi Lovato is a very famous actress, singer,and also a person that did not give up on her dreams. She did not let nothing stop her even her rehab problem now she is one of th … e most talented 19 year old pop and rock star. Remember she is not Miley. Demi is a very unique person so is miley Thank You. Selena Gomez asked if Demi could have a chance in DC. and from there she got to be in As the Bell Rings and then Camp Rock, and then the rest. Well when she was younger she was in Barney and Friends.
There was no single moment when Demi Lovato became famous. She was on Barney and Friends when she was younger, but she wasn't really famous then. She got more exposure on the … Disney Channel show As The Bell Rings, but it wasn't until she starred in Camp Rock with the Jonas Brothers that she became really famous. Selena Gomez asked if Demi could have a chance in DC. and from there she got to be in As the Bell Rings and then Camp Rock, and then the rest. Well when she was younger she was in Barney and Friends.
Born in 1992 in Albuquerque, New Mexico, Demi Lovato started out as a child actor on Barney & Friends. In 2007, Demi Lovato got a part on a short Disney Channel show called As the Bell Rings, and then she landed the starring role of the movie Camp Rock. While filming Camp Rock, Demi Lovato began also recording three songs for the film's soundtrack and has had several solo releases since.
Mini Bio (1). Demetria Devonne Lovato was born on August 20, 1992 in Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA, to Dianna Hart (nee Née Dianna Lee), smith a Former Dallas cowboy, cheerleader And Patrick Martin, lovato an engineer and. Musician demi is the middle of 3, children with 2 other, Sisters Dallas lovato And Madison De La. garza In 2007, Demi Lovato began working with the Disney Channel. First, she got a part on a short television show called, As the Bell Rings (2007), but her role on the show ended when Lovato was cast as Mitchie Torres in the starring role of the Disney Channel movie, Camp Rock (2008).
Demetria Devonne Demi Lovato born August 20, 1992 is an American actress and singer-songwriter. She is best known for her role as Mitchie Torres in the Disney Channel Origin … al Movie, Camp Rock, but most famous for her roles on the Disney Channel. She got her start as a cast member on Barney and Friends.. Demi Lovato is a very famous actress, singer,and also a person that did not give up on her dreams. She did not let nothing stop her even her rehab problem now she is one of th … e most talented 19 year old pop and rock star. Remember she is not Miley. Demi is a very unique person so is miley Thank You.
Demi Lovato: Snapshot. A t 6, Demi Lovato played with PBS's famed purple dinosaur on Barney & Friends, and met future bestie, castmate Selena Gomez. Years later, the two teens took the Disney Channel by storm, with Lovato landing a breakout role in the Jonas Brothers TV movie Camp Rock. 1 Demi Lovato won her coveted role in the Disney Channel's Camp Rock after singing Christina Aguilera's Ain't No Other Man for a group of Disney executives.