the strategy of island hopping was used by the United States in the Pacific theater of world war two. Thought of by Douglas MacArthur, island hopping was a strategy that used the technique of jumping from island to island on a chain to control the chain as a whole vs attacking all the islands at once.
Actually, both Nimitz and MacArthur based their Island Hopping on Plan Orange created by a joint war college of the War Department and Navy Department for action in the Western Pacific in the 1930s.
the strategy of island hopping was used by the United States in the Pacific theater of world war two. Thought of by Douglas MacArthur, island hopping was a strategy that u … sed the technique of jumping from island to island on a chain to control the chain as a whole vs attacking all the islands at once.
One of the strategies we used against Japan was called Island Hopping, where we sent bombing runs on islands, claiming each island as to get closer to the major cities of Japa … n. Later on, in August 6th and August 9th of 1945, we dropped two atomic bombs on the cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
The top war priorities for British Prime Minister Winston Curchill were the defence of Britain, Egypt, Palestine, the Suez Canal and India. He argued strongly for the United States and Britain to pursue a Germany First war strategy and treat the Pacific as a secondary theatre of World War II.
This approach of bypassing Japanese strong points, such as Truk, was applied on a large scale as the Allies devised their strategy for moving across the central Pacific. Known as island hopping, US forces moved from island to island, using each as a base for capturing the next.
During World War II, the early major military strategy in the Pacific theatre was to stop the Japanese from approaching the United States by taking control of the Midway Islan … ds.
Japan's Strategy. Japan entered World War II with limited aims and with the intention of fighting a limited war. Its principal objectives were to secure the resources of Southeast Asia and much of China and to establish a Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere under Japanese hegemony.