Often, patients will be prescribed more than one medication. Common bipolar meds for the treatment of mania include: 1  Antipsychotics such as chlorpromazine (Thorazine) , ziprasidone (Geodon) , quetiapine (Seroquel) , risperidon (Risperdal). 2  Valproate (Depakote). 3  Benzodiazepines such as clonazepam (Klonopin) and lorazepam (Ativan). 4  Lithium.
Lithium carbonate. In the UK, lithium carbonate (often referred to as just lithium) is the medication most commonly used to treat bipolar disorder. Lithium is a long-term method of treatment for episodes of mania, hypomania and depression. It is usually prescribed for at least six months. 
The most recent medications typically prescribed for bipolar disorder include a class of drugs called “atypical antipsychotics.” Atypical means they work in a manner that is significantly different than the previous class of antipsychotic medications. 
Antidepressants are commonly prescribed to treat depressive disorders. However, in bipolar disorder, a primary mood stabilizer is recommended. According to the 2002 APA guidelines, the first-line treatment for acute depression in bipolar patients is lithium or Lamictal (lamotrigine). These drugs belong to a group of medications called central nervous system (CNS) depressants, which act on neurotransmitters to slow down normal brain function. CNS depressants are commonly used to treat anxiety and sleep disorders and are sometimes prescribed as adjunctive therapy with bipolar disorder. Commonly used benzodiazepines include Klonopin (clonazepam), Ativan (lorazepam), Xanax (alprazolam), and Valium (diazepam
1 Whether you have bipolar I or II disorder, you'll typically need mood-stabilizing medication to control manic or hypomanic episodes. 2  Examples of mood stabilizers include lithium (Lithobid), valproic acid (Depakene), divalproex sodium (Depakote), carbamazepine (Tegretol, Equetro, others) and lamotrigine (Lamictal). A number of medications are used to treat bipolar disorder. The types and doses of medications prescribed are based on your particular symptoms. Medications may include: 1  Mood stabilizers.
Mood stabilizers. Mood stabilizers are usually prescribed to help control mood swings. Several different types of mood stabilizers are available. Lithium is the most commonly prescribed mood stabilizer for people with bipolar disorder. It has proven helpful in controlling mood swings in both directions from mania to depression and from depression to mania. Many people with bipolar disorder take more than one medication to control their symptoms. Along with the mood stabilizer (either lithium or an anticonvulsant), they may take a medication for depression, agitation, anxiety, or insomnia.
1. Lithium: Lithium is one of the most popular bipolar disorder drugs. This medication balances mood swings. Lithium is so effective that it is used for manic attacks as well as bipolar drug treatment. It takes lithium one to two weeks to reduce bipolar symptoms. 
The more common antidepressants that are used to treat the symptoms of depression in bipolar include Fluoxetine (Prozac), paroxetine (Paxil), and sertraline (Zoloft). These are the ones that I have seen prescribed by the psychiatrists that I work with. Medication Education. The medications that are prescribed for bipolar disorder can be very helpful to an individual who experiences extreme depression or mania to such an extent that his/her behaviors cause problems in their lives.
Considering taking medication to treat Bipolar Disorder? Below is a list of common medications used to treat or reduce the symptoms of Bipolar Disorder. Follow the links to read common uses, side effects, dosage details and read user reviews for the drugs listed below. Your search for Bipolar Disorder returned the following treatments. 