A common spot for bursitis is on the side of the hip. Here a large tendon passes over the bony bump on the side of the hip. The bony bump is called the greater trochanter. Inflammation in the bursa between the tendon and the greater trochanter is called trochanteric bursitis. 
Trochanteric bursitis. Trochanteric bursitis-also known as greater trochanteric pain syndrome-is a common hip syndrome that causes pain and tenderness at the bony, outside point of the hip, known as the greater trochanter. Trochanteric bursitis can be caused by: 1  Inflammation. 2  Overuse. 3  Physical trauma to muscles, tendons. 4  Prolonged pressure on the bursa. 5  Activities that require twisting or fast joint movement, such as jogging or cycling. 6  Previous hip surgery.
Greater trochanteric pain syndrome (GTPS), also known as trochanteric bursitis, is inflammation of the trochanteric bursa, a part of the hip. 
Greater trochanteric bursitis can be caused by trauma (23%-44%), but more often it is associated with repetitive microtrauma caused by active use of the muscles inserting on the greater trochanter. This microtrauma results in degenerative changes of tendons, muscles, or fibrous tissues. 
Hip Pain Treatment. Trochanteric bursitis is inflammation of the bursa (fluid-filled sac near a joint) at the outside (lateral) point of the hip known as the greater trochanter. When this bursa becomes irritated or inflamed, it causes pain in the hip. This is a common cause of hip pain. Trochanteric bursitis can result from one or more of the following events: 1  Injury to the point of the hip. 2  Play or work activities that cause overuse or injury to the joint areas. 3  Incorrect posture. 4  Stress on the soft tissues as a result of an abnormal or poorly positioned joint or bone (such as leg length differences or arthritis in a joint). 5  Othe
Bursitis is inflammation of the bursa. There are two major bursae in the hip that typically become irritated and inflamed. One bursa covers the bony point of the hip bone called the greater trochanter. Inflammation of this bursa is called trochanteric bursitis. Symptoms. The main symptom of trochanteric bursitis is pain at the point of the hip. The pain usually extends to the outside of the thigh area. In the early stages, the pain is usually described as sharp and intense. Later, the pain may become more of an ache and spread across a larger area
Bursitis is an inflammation of the small sacs of fluid (bursae) that cushion and lubricate the areas between tendons and bones. The trochanteric bursa is a large sac separating the greater trochanter of the hip and the muscles and tendons of the thighs and buttock. If home treatment does not relieve pain from bursitis, medical treatment such as lidocaine or steroid injections into the trochanteric bursa may help. Warmth and redness in the area may be a sign of infection, which may require evaluation by your doctor.
Trochanteric bursitis can result from one or more of the following events: 1  Injury to the point of the hip. 2  This can include falling onto the hip, bumping the hip into an object, or lying on one side of the body for an extended period. 3  Play or work activities that cause overuse or injury to the joint areas. Trochanteric bursitis can result from one or more of the following events: 1  Injury to the point of the hip. 2  Play or work activities that cause overuse or injury to the joint areas. 3  Incorrect posture. 4  Stress on the soft tissues as a result of an abnormal or poorly positioned joint or bone (such as leg length differences or arthritis in a joint). 5  Othe
Greater trochanteric pain syndrome is a condition that causes pain over the outside of your upper thigh (or thighs). The cause is usually due to inflammation or injury to some of the tissues that lie over the bony prominence (the greater trochanter) at the top of the thigh bone (femur). 225. Greater trochanteric pain syndrome is also often called trochanteric bursitis. The main symptom is pain over the outside of your upper thigh. Most cases are due to minor injury or inflammation to tissues in your upper, outer thigh area.
Other conditions. Trochanteric bursitis is often seen alongside other conditions such as arthritis of the hip, low back pain, disc disease of the low back, iliotibial band syndrome, fibromyalgia, thyroid disease and osteoarthritis of the knee. Conditions like gout can also increase your risk. Trochanteric bursitis can be caused by: 1  Inflammation. 2  Overuse. 3  Physical trauma to muscles, tendons. 4  Prolonged pressure on the bursa. 5  Activities that require twisting or fast joint movement, such as jogging or cycling. 6  Previous hip surgery.