Roasted lamb with jus. Photo © L Alfonse / Getty Images. Jus (pronounced ZHOO) is a word used to refer to the pan-drippings from roasted meat, which is generally enhanced by deglazing the pan with stock and then simmering the liquid with mirepoix before straining and serving. Unlike pan gravy, jus is unthickened, although there is a thickened version of jus, called jus lie (lié-zhoo-LEE) ay or fond (lie-lié-FOHN), lee ay which is prepared by adding cornstarch or arrowroot to brown stock and. Then, simmering poultry lamb and veal can also be served. au jus
Definition: In the culinary arts, the term au jus (pronounced oh-ZHOO) traditionally refers to a dish of roasted meat that is served with its own juices. In its simplest form, jus is simply the pan-drippings from the roasted meat. In practice, the jus is enhanced by deglazing the pan with stock and then simmering the liquid with mirepoix before straining and serving. But the jus is unthickened, which is what distinguishes it from a pan gravy. Recipes prepared au jus include roast rib of beef (sometimes called prime rib) au jus
Print. The French term meaning with juice.. Au Jus (pronounced oh zhoo') is a term used to describe the serving of meat, most often beef, that has been surrounded by the meat juices or accompanied by a container of the meat juices produced from the drippings that developed while the meat was being cooked. Au Jus is also a common dipping sauce used for sandwiches (French Dip sandwich) made from a thick French bread topped with slices of beef. A similar term, jus lie lié refers to meat juice that has been thickened slightly with either arrowroot or. cornstarch
Au jus (. [o ʒy]) is French for with [its own] juice; jus is the juice itself. In French cuisine, jus is a natural way to enhance the flavour of dishes, mainly chicken, veal and lamb. American recipes au jus often use soy sauce, Worcestershire sauce, salt, pepper, white or brown sugar, garlic, onion, or other ingredients to make something more like a gravy. The American jus is sometimes prepared separately, rather than being produced naturally by the food being cooked.
Au jus. Au jus is French for with [its own] juice; jus is the juice itself. In American cuisine, the term is mostly used to refer to a light sauce for beef recipes, which may be served with the food or placed on the side for dipping. In French cuisine, jus is a natural way to enhance the flavour of dishes, mainly chicken, veal and lamb.
In American cuisine, the French dip sandwich, also known as a beef dip, is a hot sandwich consisting of thinly sliced roast beef (or, sometimes, other meats) on a French roll or baguette. It is usually served au jus (with juice), that is, with beef juice from the cooking process. Beef broth or beef consomme consommé is sometimes. Substituted despite the, name This american specialty is almost completely unknown In, france the name seeming to refer to the style of bread rather than an Alleged french. origin 
Adj. 1. au jus-served in its natural juices or gravy; roast beef au jus. meat-the flesh of animals (including fishes and birds and snails) used as food. au jus. adj. Served with the natural juices or gravy: roast beef au jus. [French : , with the +. , juice .]
Definition of AU JUS. : served in the juice obtained from roasting. ADVERTISEMENT. 
In the United States, the term  au jus  is sometimes used to refer to the broth, rather than its literal translation, with the broth.. The au is often mispronounced aw, and the silent s is often erroneously pronounced. American recipes au jus often use soy sauce, Worcestershire sauce, salt, pepper, white or brown sugar, garlic, onion, or other ingredients to make something more like a gravy. The American jus is sometimes prepared separately, rather than being produced naturally by the food being cooked.