An oligopoly (from ὀλίγος (oligos) , olígos meaning, few and (πωλεῖν) , polein meaning to) sell is a market form in which a market or industry is dominated by a small number of (sellers). oligopolists Oligopoly has its own market structure. With few sellers, each oligopolist is likely to be aware of the actions of the others. According to game theory, the decisions of one firm therefore influence and are influenced by the decisions of other firms.
DEFINITION of 'Oligopoly'. A situation in which a particular market is controlled by a small group of firms. An oligopoly is much like a monopoly, in which only one company exerts control over most of a market. In an oligopoly, there are at least two firms controlling the market. 
Defining and measuring oligopoly. An oligopoly is a market structure in which a few firms dominate. When a market is shared between a few firms, it is said to be highly concentrated. Although only a few firms dominate, it is possible that many small firms may also operate in the market. 
Here we are only concerned with the oligopoly or the oligopolistic market structure. In an oligopoly market form, the market is dominated by a small number of seller and not necessarily large number of buyers. The few sellers can therefore collude to alter the market prices and reduce competition between them. 
An oligopoly is an economic condition in which there are so few independent suppliers of a particular product that competitive pricing does not take place. Oligopoly is a form of market where there is domination of a limited number of suppliers and sellers called Oligopolists. A situation in which a particular market is controlled by a small group of firms. An oligopoly is much like a monopoly, in which only one company exerts control over most of a market. In an oligopoly, there are at least two firms controlling the market. An oligopoly is a market dominated by a few large suppliers. The degree of market concentration is very high. Firms within an oligopoly produce branded products and there are also barriers to entry.
Monopoly to Capitalism. Oligopoly is the middle ground between monopoly and capitalism. An oligopoly is a small group of businesses, two or more, that control the market for a certain product or service. This gives these businesses huge influence over price and other aspects of the market. Since it is the middle ground, oligopoly examples are abundant in our economic system today
Monopoly and oligopoly are economic market conditions. Monopoly is defined by the dominance of just one seller in the market; oligopoly is an economic situation where a number of sellers populate the market. 
1 An industry which is dominated by a few firms. 2  UK definition of an oligopoly is a five firm concentration ratio of more than 50% (this means they have more than 50% of the market share). 3  Interdependence of firms, firms will be affected by how other firms set price and output. 4  Barriers to entry, but less than monopoly. 