5. distance of something above a reference point (such as sea level). 6. (ballet) the height of a dancer's leap or jump. 7. drawing of an exterior of a structure. 8. the act of increasing the wealth or prestige or power or scope of something. Familiarity information: ELEVATION used as a noun is common.
isometry (equality of elevation above sea level). altitude; height (elevation especially above sea level or above the earth's surface). grade; ground level (the height of the ground on which something stands). water level (the level of the surface of a body of water). 6. (ballet) the height of a dancer's leap or jump. 7. drawing of an exterior of a structure. 8. the act of increasing the wealth or prestige or power or scope of something. Familiarity information: ELEVATION used as a noun is common.
C ontours are imag-inary lines that join points of equal elevation on the surface of the land above or below a reference surface, such as mean sea level. Contours make it possible to measure the height of mountains, depths of the ocean bottom, and steep-ness of slopes. A topographic map shows more than contours. 
1 elevation-elevation elevation, vertical distance from a datum plane, usually mean sea level to a point above 2  ... elev.: meaning and definitions-elev.: Definition and Pronunciation. 3  acre, measure of land area-acre acre, measure of land area used in the English units of measurement. 4  The acre was originally ... 
Height above mean sea level (AMSL) is the elevation (on the ground) or altitude (in the air) of an object, relative to the average sea level datum. Hence a change in MSL can result from a real change in sea level, or from a change in the height of the land on which the tide gauge operates. In the UK, the Ordnance Datum (the 0 metres height on UK maps) is the mean sea level measured at Newlyn in Cornwall between 1915 and 1921.
b. The degree of height reached when such a jump is executed. Synonyms: elevation, altitude, height. These nouns denote the distance of something above a point of reference such as the horizon: a city at an elevation of 3,000 feet above sea level; flying at an altitude of 1 mile; grew to a height of 6 feet. 2. the height to which something is elevated or to which it rises. 3. the altitude of a place above sea level or ground level. 4. an elevated place; eminence. 5. a drawing that represents a building or other object as being projected geometrically on a vertical plane parallel to one of its sides.
altitude, height-elevation especially above sea level or above the earth's surface; the altitude gave her a headache. ground level, grade-the height of the ground on which something stands; the base of the tower was below grade. water level-the level of the surface of a body of water. 2. the height to which something is elevated or to which it rises. 3. the altitude of a place above sea level or ground level. 4. an elevated place; eminence. 5. a drawing that represents a building or other object as being projected geometrically on a vertical plane parallel to one of its sides.
Elevation, or geometric height, is mainly used when referring to points on the Earth 's surface, while altitude or geopotential height is used for points above the surface, such as an aircraft in flight or a spacecraft in orbit, and depth is used for points below the surface. A topographical map is the main type of map used to depict elevation, often through use of contour lines. In a Geographic Information System (GIS), digital elevation models (DEM) are commonly used to represent the surface (topography) of a place, through a raster (grid) dataset of elevations.
For other uses, see Elevation (disambiguation) . Elevation histogram of the surface of the Earth – approximately 71% of the Earth's surface is covered with water. A sign at 8000 feet (2438 meters) in the San Bernardino Mountains. The elevation of a geographic location is its height above or below a fixed reference point, most commonly a reference geoid, a mathematical model of the Earth's sea level as an equipotential gravitational surface (see Geodetic system, vertical datum). A topographical map is the main type of map used to depict elevation, often through use of contour lines. In a Geographic Information System (GIS), digital elevation models (DEM) are commonly used to represent the surface (topography) of a place, through a raster (grid) dataset of elevations.