Test Overview. An aspartate aminotransferase (AST) test measures the amount of this enzyme in the blood. AST is normally found in red blood cells, liver, heart, muscle tissue, pancreas, and kidneys. AST formerly was called serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (SGOT). Low levels of AST are normally found in the blood
An aspartate aminotransferase (AST) test measures the amount of this enzyme in the blood. AST is normally found in red blood cells, liver, heart, muscle tissue, pancreas, and kidneys. AST formerly was called serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (SGOT). Low levels of AST are normally found in the blood. 
This blood test is used to diagnose liver damage. Aspartate transaminase (AST) is an enzyme that is released when your liver or muscles are damaged. Although AST is found mainly in your liver and heart, AST can also be found in small amounts in other muscles. This test can also be used to monitor liver disease.
Guide. An aspartate aminotransferase (AST) test measures the amount of this enzyme in the blood. AST is normally found in red blood cells, liver, heart, muscle tissue, pancreas, and kidneys. AST formerly was called serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (SGOT). Low levels of AST are normally found in the blood. An aspartate aminotransferase (AST) test is done to: 1  Check for liver damage. 2  Help identify liver disease, especially hepatitis and cirrhosis. 3  Check on the success of treatment for liver disease. 4  Find out whether jaundice was caused by a blood disorder or liver disease. 5  Keep track of the effects of medicines that can damage the liver.
An aspartate aminotransferase (AST) test measures the amount of this enzyme in the blood. AST is normally found in red blood cells, liver, heart, muscle tissue, pancreas, and kidneys. AST formerly was called serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (SGOT). An aspartate aminotransferase (AST) test is done to: 1  Check for liver damage. 2  Help identify liver disease, especially hepatitis and cirrhosis. 3  Check on the success of treatment for liver disease. 4  Find out whether jaundice was caused by a blood disorder or liver disease. 5  Keep track of the effects of medicines that can damage the liver.
An aspartate aminotransferase (AST) test is done to: 1  Check for liver damage. 2  Help identify liver disease, especially hepatitis and cirrhosis. 3  Liver disease may produce symptoms such as pain in the upper abdomen, nausea, vomiting, and sometimes jaundice. 4  Check on the success of treatment for liver disease. An aspartate aminotransferase (AST) test is done to: 1  Check for liver damage. 2  Help identify liver disease, especially hepatitis and cirrhosis. 3  Check on the success of treatment for liver disease. 4  Find out whether jaundice was caused by a blood disorder or liver disease. 5  Keep track of the effects of medicines that can damage the liver.
Aspartate aminotransferase (AST): Also known as serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase (SGOT), AST is an enzyme that is normally present in liver and heart cells. 
AST catalyzes the reversible transfer of an α-amino group between aspartate and glutamate and, as such, is an important enzyme in amino acid metabolism. AST is found in the liver, heart, skeletal muscle, kidneys, brain, and red blood cells. Serum AST level, serum ALT (alanine transaminase) level, and their ratio (AST/ALT ratio) are commonly measured clinically as biomarkers for liver health.
aspartate transaminase. an enzyme that catalyzes the reversible transfer of an amino group from aspartate to α-ketoglutarate to form glutamate and oxaloacetate, requiring the coenzyme pyridoxal phosphate; it is normally present in serum and in various body tissues, especially in the heart and liver.