1 The company must report the amount of the write-down as an expense. 2  On a company's balance sheet, accounts receivable is typically reported as accounts receivable, net.. 3  That means accounts receivable minus the value of the allowance for doubtful or uncollectible accounts -- in other words, net realizable value. Tips. 1  On a company's balance sheet, inventory is typically listed at cost, meaning the value reported is whatever it cost the company to acquire the inventory. 2  If the net realizable value of an item is lower than its cost, however, then the item's balance-sheet value must be written down to NRV.
Subtract that amount from your accounts receivable to get your cash realizable value. For example, your accounts receivable is $20,000, and your historical uncollectable percentage is three percent. You calculate the adjustment amount by estimating how much of your accounts receivable are uncollectable. Subtracting the uncollectable amount from your accounts receivable gives you the cash realizable value of your accounts receivable.
Wilson Corporation uses an income statement approach to estimate credit losses. Its gross Accounts Receivable of $5,000,000 at the beginning of the period had a net realizable value of $4,925,000. During the period, the company wrote off actual accounts receivable of $100,000 and collected $7,835,000 from credit customers. Credit sales for the year amounted to $9,000,000. 
The percentage of sales basis uses a percentage of your uncollectable sales to determine the accounts receivable cash realizable value. To calculate the uncollectable amount, multiply your net credit sales by the bad debt percentage. You calculate the adjustment amount by estimating how much of your accounts receivable are uncollectable. Subtracting the uncollectable amount from your accounts receivable gives you the cash realizable value of your accounts receivable.
For example, you have net sales of $100,000, accounts receivable of $25,000 and your prior years’ bad debt percentage is four percent. Multiply $100,000 by four percent to get your uncollectable sales amount of $4,000. Subtract $4,000 from $25,000 to get your accounts receivable cash realizable value of $21,000. You calculate the adjustment amount by estimating how much of your accounts receivable are uncollectable. Subtracting the uncollectable amount from your accounts receivable gives you the cash realizable value of your accounts receivable.
1 That means accounts receivable minus the value of the allowance for doubtful or uncollectible accounts -- in other words, net realizable value. 2  Companies rely on past experience to estimate what percentage of A/R is uncollectible. 3  They usually do this through an aging analysis.. Tips. 1  On a company's balance sheet, inventory is typically listed at cost, meaning the value reported is whatever it cost the company to acquire the inventory. 2  If the net realizable value of an item is lower than its cost, however, then the item's balance-sheet value must be written down to NRV.
Allowance for uncollectible accounts is an account a company uses to estimate the dollar amount of its accounts receivable balance that will be uncollectible. You can calculate the cash realizable value of your accounts receivable to estimate how much money you will collect. Subtract the dollar amount of allowance for uncollectible accounts from the dollar amount of your accounts receivable balance to calculate the net realizable value of your accounts receivable. For example, subtract $2,250 in allowance for uncollectible accounts from $150,000 in accounts receivable. This equals a net realizable value of $147,750, which is the amount you can expect to collect from your accounts receivable
Save. The cash realizable value, or net realizable value, of a company's accounts receivable is the amount the company expects to receive in cash as payment from customers. The net realizable value equals the dollar amount of accounts receivable minus the dollar amount of allowance for uncollectible accounts. Subtract the dollar amount of allowance for uncollectible accounts from the dollar amount of your accounts receivable balance to calculate the net realizable value of your accounts receivable. For example, subtract $2,250 in allowance for uncollectible accounts from $150,000 in accounts receivable. This equals a net realizable value of $147,750, which is the amount you can expect to collect from your accounts receivable
1 On a company's balance sheet, accounts receivable is typically reported as accounts receivable, net.. 2  That means accounts receivable minus the value of the allowance for doubtful or uncollectible accounts -- in other words, net realizable value. Tips. 1  On a company's balance sheet, inventory is typically listed at cost, meaning the value reported is whatever it cost the company to acquire the inventory. 2  If the net realizable value of an item is lower than its cost, however, then the item's balance-sheet value must be written down to NRV.