Gastroenterologists also receive dedicated training in endoscopy (upper endoscopy, sigmoidoscopy, and colonoscopy) by expert instructors. Endoscopy is the use of narrow, flexible lighted tubes with built-in video cameras, to visualize the inside of the intestinal tract. Gastroenterology is the study of the normal function and diseases of the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, colon and rectum, pancreas, gallbladder, bile ducts and liver.
A gastroenterologist is a physician who specializes in diseases of the digestive system, also called the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. Gastroenterologists specialize in the evaluation, diagnosis, management, and treatment of the following symptoms and conditions: 1  Abdominal pain and discomfort. 2  Bleeding in the digestive tract. 3  Cancer (e.g., colorectal cancer, stomach [gastric] cancer, pancreatic cancer, liver cancer). 4  Constipation and diarrhea
A Gastroenterologist is a physician of internal medicine who specializes in diagnosing, treating and preventing diseases of the digestive system. A gastroenterologist is concerned with the normal function of the digestive system; making sure that it is working properly to dispose of bodily waste. 
A gastroenterologist is an internist who has completed specialty training in the treatment of digestive disorders. Digestive disorders include disorders of the esophagus, stomach, small and large intestines, pancreas, gallbladder, and liver. It is important for the patient to determine the gastroenterologist's level of expertise in liver disease prior to establishing a long-term medical relationship with this type of doctor. A hepatologist is the most experienced and qualified type of doctor to treat people with liver disease.
Gastroenterologists are trained to diagnose and treat a number of diseases, including cancers of the pancreas, liver, esophagus, stomach, colon, rectum and anus. Gastroenterologists do not perform surgery but do procedures such as biopsies and endoscopic exams. At Cancer Treatment Centers of America® (CTCA), our gastroenterologists perform minimally invasive procedures to treat cancers of the digestive system and to relieve symptoms associated with your specific digestive cancer.
Gastroenterologists have extensive training in the diagnosis and treatment of conditions that affect the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine (colon), and biliary system (e.g., liver, pancreas, gallbladder, bile ducts). Gastroenterology is a subspecialty of internal medicine. Gastroenterologists specialize in the evaluation, diagnosis, management, and treatment of the following symptoms and conditions: 1  Abdominal pain and discomfort. 2  Bleeding in the digestive tract. 3  Cancer (e.g., colorectal cancer, stomach [gastric] cancer, pancreatic cancer, liver cancer). 4  Constipation and diarrhea
Gastroenterologist. A gastroenterologist is a medical professional who specialises in the treatment of patient conditions affecting the liver, intestine and pancreas. This work would be conducted in both the outpatient and inpatient wards. Work activities. Typical work activities a gastroenterologist would need to carry out include the following: 1  Use the endoscopy technique to find whether patients have an ulcer, cancer or inflammation. 2  Diagnose and treat conditions including irritable bowel syndrome, cancers and liver disease.
A Gastroenterologist is a physician with dedicated training and unique experience in the management of diseases of the gastrointestinal tract and liver. Gastroenterology is the study of the normal function and diseases of the esophagus, stomach, small intestine, colon and rectum, pancreas, gallbladder, bile ducts