O’Neill said the contract will cover this season and next year and is a two-way deal. That means his salary will be dictated by whether he plays for the Jets or their American Hockey League franchise, the St. John’s (Newfoundland) IceCaps. He received an $85,000 signing bonus. He will join the IceCaps for a game in Norfolk, Va., on Wednesday night. Maine’s Will O’Neill falls into Boston College’s John Muse while looking for a rebound during a game last season. O’Neill has signed a contract with the NHL’s Winnipeg Jets.
Current Contract. Will O'Neill signed a 1 year / $575,000 contract with the Pittsburgh Penguins, including $575,000 guaranteed, and an annual average salary of $575,000. In 2015-16, O'Neill will earn a base salary of $575,000. O'Neill has a cap hit of $575,000
Ed ONeill's Salary. $200 Thousand Per Episode. Ed O'Neill net worth and salary: Ed O'Neill is an American actor who has a net worth of $45 million. Ed O'Neill earned his net worth through a number of acting roles in movies, television and the popular sitcoms Married with Children and Modern Family.. Ed O'Neill was born in Youngstown, Ohio. Post-Married… with Children, he has appeared in a mix of film and television projects, including The Bone Collector, In Living Color, 8 Simple Rules, The West Wing, and John from Cincinnati. He currently stars as Jay Pritchett on the hit ABC comedy, Modern Family. Ed O'Neill Salary.
Unfortunately for Ed, back then actors didn’t make as much as they do now days. We are happy to report that Ed O’Neill currently makes a whopping $100k per episode starring in the “Modern Family”. No more shoe salesman salary for Mr. Bundy Just kidding. I truly admire Ed and think he is a great actor. Always love seeing some of my favorite stars back in the spotlight. 
It’s safe to say that Rob O’Neil walked away from an estimated 100,000 dollars per year in salary (maybe more depending on the variables mentioned), full health insurance for him and his family, and had he served just four more years, full retirement benefits that would include a pension for the rest of his life. While deployed to a combat zone, you receive family separation pay (250.00/mo.), Hostile Fire/Imminent Danger Pay (225.00/mo.), Per Diem at a rate of 3.50 per day, and Hardship Duty Pay which is 150.00/mo. for most combat zones.
The new deals will bring O'Neill's salary pretty much in line with his co-stars (he previously made a lot more), but he will receive significantly more in back-end participation, making his ultimate take from Modern Family larger. The Modern Family cast will make slightly less than that, but theirs is a six-person ensemble, whereas Big Bang has three principal leads and a couple supporting characters. 20th TV chairmen Gary Newman and Dana Walden led negotiations for the studio.
ORONO, Maine — Will O’Neill, the University of Maine’s standout senior defenseman and co-captain, has signed a contract with the National Hockey League’s Winnipeg Jets. Maine’s Will O’Neill falls into Boston College’s John Muse while looking for a rebound during a game last season. O’Neill has signed a contract with the NHL’s Winnipeg Jets.