Conflict between civilization and natural life. The primary theme of the novel is the conflict between civilization and natural life.. Huck represents natural life through his freedom of spirit, uncivilized ways, and desire to escape from civilization. The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn study guide contains a biography of Mark Twain, literature essays, a complete e-text, quiz questions, major themes, characters, and a full summary and analysis of Huck Finn. 1  About The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn. 2  The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn Summary.
There are various huckleberry and bilberry species native to the Northwest. Dwarf huckleberry, dwarf blueberry, dwarf bilberry, or dwarf whortleberry (V. caespitosum) is native throughout North America. The plants grow three to twenty-four inches tall and bear bright blue berries with excellent flavor. 
huck•le•ber•ry. 1. the dark blue or black edible berry of any of various shrubs belonging to the genus Gaylussacia of the heath family. 2. a shrub bearing such fruit. 
Chapter 1. The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn begins where the The Adventures of Tom Sawyer leaves off. At the end of the previous novel, Huck and Tom find a treasure of twelve thousand dollars, which they divide. 
Slavery and Racism. Though Mark Twain wrote The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn after the abolition of slavery in the United States, the novel itself is set before the Civil War, when slavery was still legal and the economic foundation of the American South. 
Huckleberry is a name used in North America for several plants in the family Ericaceae, in two closely related genera: Vaccinium and Gaylussacia. The huckleberry is the state fruit of Idaho. 
Welcome to the Huckleberry Patch Web Site! The Huckleberry Patch is Montana's original huckleberry cannery. First known as Willow's Wildberry Farm, the business has operated as The Huckleberry Patch for nearly 20 years. 
Huckleberry [edit]. Huckleberry Huck Finn is the son of the town's vagrant drunkard, Pap Finn. Sleeping on doorsteps when the weather is fair, in empty hogsheads during storms, and living off of what he receives from others, Huck lives the life of a destitute vagabond. (March 2014). Huckleberry Huck Finn is a fictional character created by Mark Twain who first appeared in the book The Adventures of Tom Sawyer and is the protagonist and narrator of its sequel, Adventures of Huckleberry Finn (taking place after The Adventures of Tom Sawyer).
Jill MacKenzie. Garden huckleberry. Garden huckleberry or wonderberry (Solanum melanocerasum, syn S. nigrum guineense) is not related to true huckleberries, woody plants in the heath family. Instead, it is an herbaceous annual in the nightshade family, related to tomatoes, peppers, tobacco, eggplant and potato.