Fixator Muscle. A fixator is a stabilizer that acts to eliminate the unwanted movement of an agonist's, or prime mover's, origin. Many muscles are attached to more than one bone. When this happens the muscles are said to be multiarticulate or multijoint muscles. An antagonist is a muscle that is capable of opposing the movement of a joint by producing torque that is opposite to a certain joint action. This is usually a muscle that is located on the opposite side of the joint from the agonist.
Medical Definition of FIXATOR. : a muscle that stabilizes or fixes a part of the body to which a muscle in the process of moving another part is attached. What made you want to look up fixator? 
fixator muscle. Definitions: 1. a muscle that acts as a stabilizer of one part of the body during movement of another part. The definition information for fixator muscle is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here.
A fixator muscle is a muscle that acts as a stabilizer of one part of the body during movement of another part. An example: BICEP CURL: Agonist_Prime mover muscle: Biceps. Antagonist_Opposing muscle group: Triceps. 
The functions of a fixator muscle is the stabalizing of the orgin of the prime mover so that the prime mover can act more efficiently. Look into biomechanics for more detail. Is all about the way that the muscles moves. ie BICEP CURL: Agonist-Prime mover muscle: Biceps. Antagonist-Opposing muscle group: Triceps. Synergist-Helping muscle group(assists): Brachioradialis.
4. Fixator: The fixator in a movement is the muscle(s) that stabilises the origin of the agonist and the joint that the origin spans (moves over) in order to help the agonist function most effectively. In the bicep curl this would be the rotator cuff muscles, the ‘guardians of the shoulder joint’. 1. Agonist: The agonist in a movement is the muscle(s) that provides the major force to complete the movement. Because of this agonists are known as the ‘prime movers’. In the bicep curl which produces flexion at the elbow, the biceps muscle is the agonist, as seen in the image below.