Mountain View Regional Medical Center Emergency Department is located on the 2nd floor of the hospital and is staffed with highly qualified physicians and nurses, 24-hours a day, seven days a week. Mountain View Regional Medical Center. 310 Third Street, NE. Norton, VA 24273. (276) 679-9100. Mountain View Regional Medical Center is a full-service hospital that has served Norton, Va., and the surrounding region since 1948. Mountain View Regional, a facility of Lonesome Pine Hospital, provides a wide range of inpatient and outpatient services to the community. The hospital joined Wellmont Health System in 2007
About MountainView Hospital. MountainView Hospital is a state-of-the-art, full-service medical facility located in the heart of northwest Las Vegas, one of the fastest growing areas in the Valley. Learn About Robotic Surgery. MountainView Hospital is a state-of-the-art, full-service medical facility located in the heart of northwest Las Vegas, one of the fastest growing areas in the Valley.
Welcome to Mountain View Hospital. The dedicated employees, staff, and physicians of Mountain View welcome you to our web site. We realize that you have a choice when seeking medical care. Our mission is to become the premier hospital in Southeast Idaho. You, your family members and your neighbors have already helped us begin realizing that mission. Mountain View Hospital strives to be the facility of choice for Idaho Falls and surrounding areas. Through the commitment, compassion and talent of our caring staff and physicians we are focused on improving human health and well-being through exceptional patient care.
At MountainView Hospital, we’ve demonstrated excellence in every aspect of our institution and practices. From in-depth planning to the execution of a state-of-the-art graduate medical education program that fits the needs of our residents, we set the standard high for clinical research and educational excellence. 
MountainView Hospital is a state-of-the-art, full-service medical facility located in the heart of Northwest Las Vegas, one of the fastest growing areas in the valley. 1  340-bed Community Hospital. About Us. MountainView Hospital is a state-of-the-art, full-service medical facility located in the heart of Northwest Las Vegas, one of the fastest growing areas in the valley. 1  340-bed Community Hospital. 2  1,440 Staff. 3  1,200 Physicians.
MountainView Hospital is a state-of-the-art, full-service medical facility located in the heart of northwest Las Vegas. Since 1996, the dedicated staff members of MountainView Hospital have maintained the highest standards of quality care for our patients. We are a community-minded hospital that strives to promote wellness among our neighbors in Las Vegas.