What if You Were Falsely Accused. Presumably you would know if that was so or not. And were it I, presumed innocent would be a legal status that is little or no comfort while my reputation was ignominiously and publicly being shredded. So read the post again while imagining yourself being falsely accused.
1. Realize the importance of false accusations. If you have been accused of a criminal offense, the consequences can be serious. Many people who are falsely accused experience a period of denial about the magnitude of these charges.
Wrongfully Accused Defendants May Have Recourse in the Civil Courts. If someone is falsely accused of a crime, pleads not guilty, and the charges are dismissed, he or she may be able to file suit against the person who brought the charges.
I thought I understood what it must feel like to be falsely accused. As a child, I read the biblical story of Joseph, who was falsely accused of attempting to rape Potiphar’s wife. I recall wondering what it must have been like for Joseph to be in prison, knowing he had done nothing wrong.
What to Do if You Are Falsely Accused of a Crime. Believe it or not, many people who are convicted of a crime and end up in prison were falsely accused. Although the American criminal justice system works in most cases, not all juries get things right, and the consequences can be tragic.
2. Prepare for the costs of your defense. If you have been falsely accused of a serious crime, such as rape, sexual abuse, or domestic violence, there is a good chance you will face criminal charges with a high risk of conviction. Building a strong defense case will take time and money.
Blessed are you when people insult you, persecute you and falsely say all kinds of evil against you because of Me. Rejoice and be glad, because great is your reward in heaven, for in the same way they persecuted the prophets who were before you..
Alan Dershowitz has a terrific op-ed in the Wall St. Journal,  A Nightmare of False Accusation That Could Happen to You .. I don't know how he tells the whole story in one op-ed column, but he does. My last post on his current travails was 5,000 words. Go read Dershowitz. You'll learn a few things about the shortcomings of the criminal justice system.