Achatina fulica is a species of land snail in the family Achatinidae, known commonly as the giant African snail or giant African land snail. Outside of its native range this snail thrives in many types of habitat in areas with mild climates. It feeds voraciously and is a vector for plant pathogens, causing severe damage to agricultural crops and native plants. It competes with native snail taxa, is a nuisance pest of urban areas, and spreads human disease. The giant African snail is a macrophytophagous herbivore; it eats a wide range of plant material, fruit, and vegetables. It will sometimes eat sand, very small stones, bones from carcasses and even concrete as calcium sources for its shell.
Snail-like animals that naturally lack a shell, or have only an internal shell, are mostly called slugs, and land snails that have only a very small shell (that they cannot retract into) are often called semi-slugs. Although land snails may be more familiar to people, marine snails constitute the majority of snail species, and have much greater diversity and a greater biomass. Numerous kinds of snail can also be found in fresh water.
The largest living species of sea snail is Syrinx aruanus; its shell can measure up to 90 cm (35 in) in length, and the whole animal with the shell can weigh up to 18 kg (40 lb). Although land snails may be more familiar to people, marine snails constitute the majority of snail species, and have much greater diversity and a greater biomass. Numerous kinds of snail can also be found in fresh water.
Garden snails bury their eggs in shallow topsoil primarily while the weather is warm and damp, usually 5 to 10 cm down, digging with their 'foot'- the back of their 'tail'. Egg sizes differ between species, from a 3 mm diameter in the grove snail to a 6 cm diameter in the Giant African Land Snail. Diet Edit. In the wild, snails eat a variety of different foods, including leafy vegetation, fruits, feces and carrion. They can cause damage to agricultural crops and garden plants, and are therefore often regarded as pests.
What is a good habitat for a land snail? Answer   Green vegetation, ferns for example, bark perhaps, and if you are keeping him/her as a pet, in a TRANSPARENT LARGE plastic box WITH holes in the top for breathin … g The habitat of a snail needs to be warm and moist. They live best  in humid environments with plenty of grass to eat. First, I would layer the ground with a nice, thick layer of dirt. Adding a few rocks here and there to add a natural effect is nice too. If you want to, it would be cool to ad … d like a live plant (once i added a live dandelion to MY garden snail habitat.
The average life span of a snail is approximately 10 to 15 years in captivity. However, it is believed that some species can live up to 25 years this way. In the wild however, lifespan varies from species to species, but range from 2-3 in some cases to 5-7 for other kinds of land snails. Hermaphrodites A living organism that has reproductive organs of both sexes. 1  The largest land snail recorded was 12 inches long and weighed near 2 pounds. 2  Garden snails (helix apersa) a top speed of 50 yards per hour, this is about 1.3 cm.
The class Gastropoda is the second largest class of invertebrates, second only to the insects. Because of this, snails are extraordinarily diverse, in habitat, in form, in behaviour and in anatomy, and therefore what is true of one snail species may not at all be true of another, more distantly related one. Diet Edit. In the wild, snails eat a variety of different foods, including leafy vegetation, fruits, feces and carrion. They can cause damage to agricultural crops and garden plants, and are therefore often regarded as pests.
Snails eat calcium food which is basically required for their shell. Read on more about What do Snails Eat. Discover here some of the most fascinating snail facts for kids. Snail is the collective name often applied to gastropod molluscs, land snails, and terrestrial pulmonate. Some other snails also fall into this category such as garden snail, sea snail, and freshwater snai
Answer   Green vegetation, ferns for example, bark perhaps, and if you are keeping him/her as a pet, in a TRANSPARENT LARGE plastic box WITH holes in the top for breathin … g The habitat of a snail needs to be warm and moist. They live best  in humid environments with plenty of grass to eat. 
Snails can be found in a very wide range of environments, including ditches, deserts, and the abyssal depths of the sea. Although land snails may be more familiar to people, marine snails constitute the majority of snail species, and have much greater diversity and a greater biomass. Numerous kinds of snail can also be found in fresh water.