1 Sandwich your firecrackers together and completely wrap them in aluminum foil. 2  It prevents as mess and burning the crackers, no one likes burnt firecrackers. 3  Put them in the oven for 20 minutes, and enjoy. 4  Optionally, you at the end of the 20 minutes you can turn your oven up to 350 degrees F for another 2 minutes. 1 It prevents as mess and burning the crackers, no one likes burnt firecrackers. 2  Put them in the oven for 20 minutes, and enjoy. 3
Place the foiled up crackers on a cookie sheet and put it in the oven FOR EXACTLY 22 MINUTES. Better set your time correctly. Time is a pretty huge fuckin factor here because we don't want the weed to burn which it will in only 5-10 minutes more than 22. just to heat the firecrackers for a few seconds. This is important because it prepares the weed to be cooked when placed in the oven after. And can cook remaining weed into the peanutbutter or at least prepares it better when you microwave again later.
giaan2 New Member. So, I've been reading a few tutorials on how to make firecrackers, and I got various opinions concerning the temperature. My oven minimum temperature is 180ºC, which is 356ºF fahrenheint, and some people told me this is too hot and wouldn't work. Thc vaporizes at somewhere near 350F, so cooking at a higher temp than that will/can vape the magic out of your product. I recently had good results microwaving a firecracker, using multiple short burst for a total of a minute or so. 10 seconds + 10sec + 10 Sec + 20 Sec + 15 Sec, I think.
Preheat the oven to 250 degrees. Using aluminum foil, make a small bowl to hold your weed while you 'prebake' it. Put the weed in the oven for about 15 minutes to dry in out. Now Preheat the oven to 300 degrees. Apply a generous amount of peanut butter to one side of each cracker. Now spread your weed evenly across half of the crackers you have prepared
Preheat your oven to 320 degrees for about 15 to 20 minutes. Using a temperature lower than this can work it will just take longer for the bake to complete. Using a temperature higher than this and you risk having your weed vaped. Step 5. Wrap each cracker air tight with tin foil, don’t squeeze the tinfoil to the cracker so it becomes a part of the cracker, just wrap it around it so that it covers it and prevents any air reaching inside. Step 6. Place all your crackers evenly spaced out on a bake sheet and insert it into the oven.
You need to wrap your firecrackers in tin foil in order to prevent any of the weed to be vaped while in the oven. 1 small sheet as long as it covers the whole cracker is enough. Just place cracker in the center and tighten the tin foil together to be closed off from any air leaks. just to heat the firecrackers for a few seconds. This is important because it prepares the weed to be cooked when placed in the oven after. And can cook remaining weed into the peanutbutter or at least prepares it better when you microwave again later.
Make sure you follow the preheating step so that your firecrackers will bake evenly all around. If you insert them into the oven before preheating and just turn it on, they will not bake evenly. Step 2. While your oven is preheating, take out as many crackers as you want to make for your recipe. Step 5. Wrap each cracker air tight with tin foil, don’t squeeze the tinfoil to the cracker so it becomes a part of the cracker, just wrap it around it so that it covers it and prevents any air reaching inside. Step 6. Place all your crackers evenly spaced out on a bake sheet and insert it into the oven.
giaan2 said: ↑. So, I've been reading a few tutorials on how to make firecrackers, and I got various opinions concerning the temperature. My oven minimum temperature is 180ºC, which is 356ºF fahrenheint, and some people told me this is too hot and wouldn't work. Thc vaporizes at somewhere near 350F, so cooking at a higher temp than that will/can vape the magic out of your product. I recently had good results microwaving a firecracker, using multiple short burst for a total of a minute or so. 10 seconds + 10sec + 10 Sec + 20 Sec + 15 Sec, I think.
I would recommend a thin spread of peanut butter so that the THC is heated evenly. -Wrap the crackers completely in tinfoil and cook at 310 degrees for 20-25 minutes (I use 23mins but I really doubt it matters). 
The weed firecracker is easy enough to make, only takes about 20 minutes to cook, and much more efficient with your weed than having to bake a whole batch of brownies if you only just want one or two brownies. 1 It prevents as mess and burning the crackers, no one likes burnt firecrackers. 2  Put them in the oven for 20 minutes, and enjoy. 3  Optionally, you at the end of the 20 minutes you can turn your oven up to 350 degrees F for another 2 minutes.