Size: The largest lizard is the Komodo monitor. It can grow longer than a person. The smallest lizard is a tiny gecko. Characteristics: Most lizards have dry, scaly skin. They have four legs, clawed feet, and a long tail. You can see their outside ear opening. Lizards have a weak tail. I'm thinking of catching another gecko lizard and put it in with the other gecko lizard and see what they do together. That will be good now. I think that I can learn about lizards a lot easier in the rain forest than in a book because you can see what they do and see where they go.
Unlike snakes, most lizards have moveable eyelids. There are currently over 4,675 lizard species, including iguanas, chameleons, geckos, Gila monsters, monitors, and skinks. Sight— Most lizards have eyelids, just like we do, that clean and protect their eyes when they blink. But some lizards, like geckos, can’t blink! Instead, they have a clear membrane that shields their eyes from dirt or bright sun and use their tongue to clean their eyes. Many lizards, such as iguanas, can see in color
Lizards that bite humans are very rare. Lizards are predominantly insectivorous, but some eat fruit, or vegetables. Live crickets and worms are the most typical foods for pet lizards, though the crested gecko (not a friendly lizard to humans) can feed entirely on fruit. Sight is very important for most lizards, both for locating prey and for communication, and, as such, many lizards have highly acute color vision. Most lizards rely heavily on body language, using specific postures, gestures, and movements to define territory, resolve disputes, and entice mates.
Size: The largest lizard is the Komodo monitor. It can grow longer than a person. The smallest lizard is a tiny gecko. Characteristics: Most lizards have dry, scaly skin. They have four legs, clawed feet, and a long tail. You can see their outside ear opening. Lizards have a weak tail
There are many types of lizards and they range in size from very small geckos to large kimono dragons. For the purposes of this article, we will focus on the types of lizards that are commonly kept as household pets. There are many types of lizards that can be kept as pets; they make friendly and long-lived companions. Lizards eat a variety of foods depending on the species, so knowing which species of lizard you have is a vital first step when trying to provide proper nutrition. Most of the commonly kept pet lizards are insectivores and can be kept alive on insects, but fruits, plants and small animals are also great options for some lizards. For example, a good diet for a bearded dragon might include leafy greens as well as crickets, and even frozen mice.
Lizards are part of a group of animals known as reptiles. They are most closely related to snakes. In fact, some lizards, called sheltopusiks, look like snakes because they have no legs! Many lizards today resemble the ancient reptiles of the dinosaur era. Sight— Most lizards have eyelids, just like we do, that clean and protect their eyes when they blink. But some lizards, like geckos, can’t blink! Instead, they have a clear membrane that shields their eyes from dirt or bright sun and use their tongue to clean their eyes.
Lizards that will eat frozen feeders include blue-tongue and other omnivorous skinks, bearded dragons, water dragons, many of the geckos, monitors of all types, sailfin lizards, basilisks, and teiids. Large amphibians, such as ornate horned frogs and bullfrogs, will also take frozen mice or frozen rats. Most of the commonly kept pet lizards are insectivores and can be kept alive on insects, but fruits, plants and small animals are also great options for some lizards. For example, a good diet for a bearded dragon might include leafy greens as well as crickets, and even frozen mice.
Yes, lizards can bite, but it depends on the type of lizard on how serous it is, bearded dragons don't typically bite, they aren't tempermental, leopard gechos do bite sometimes, but it doesn't hurt that bad, it will draw blood though. 
Some lizard species can store up to 60 percent of their body fat in their tail. Unlike other lizards, alligator lizards shed their skin in one piece, as snakes do. Thorny devil lizards can eat 24 to 45 ants per minute. Sight— Most lizards have eyelids, just like we do, that clean and protect their eyes when they blink. But some lizards, like geckos, can’t blink! Instead, they have a clear membrane that shields their eyes from dirt or bright sun and use their tongue to clean their eyes.
Some lizards can grow a new tail. Food: Some lizards eat bugs and spiders. Others eat plants, small animals, or even other lizards. Most lizards use their eyes to look for food. Some use their sense of smell. Lizards have jaws with teeth. They also have teeth on the roof of their mouth. I'm thinking of catching another gecko lizard and put it in with the other gecko lizard and see what they do together. That will be good now. I think that I can learn about lizards a lot easier in the rain forest than in a book because you can see what they do and see where they go.