Prepare your oven and pan. Once your steak is ready to cook, set it aside. Adjust your oven rack so that the top of the steak will be about 4 inches (10cm) from the broiler heating element. Then turn the oven on to broil and preheat at 350f. Lightly grease your broiler pan with cooking spray. Broiler pans look like a cookie sheet, with an inset 'grill' top put on them that has slots on it for juices to drip down below to the cookie sheet. Place your steak on the broiler pan, allowing the excess marinade to drain.
Turn the broiler on and heat the pan you will be cooking the steaks on. Just as you don’t want to throw the steak in a cold pan or on a cold grill, you want to make sure your broiler pan is nice and hot as well. Oil it a little with olive oil and turn the broiler on for 10 minutes. 
1 Place steak on a roasting pan. 2  Broil for 6 to 8 minutes, remove steak from the oven, and flip over. 3  Spread butter and season just like the other side. 4  Return to the broiler, and continue cooking for 6 to 8 minutes, or to desired doneness. 
Step 5: Broil the steaks. -- Ask the people you are serving how they like their steaks cooked. Steaks for those who like their meat well-done should go under the broiler a few minutes before the steaks for those who like their meat rare to medium. -- Place the steaks on the unheated rack of the broiler pan. -- For 1-inch steaks cooked to medium doneness, broil the steaks for about 15 minutes, turning once halfway through cooking time. Allow less time for rare steaks and more time for well-done steaks. -- Before turning the broiler on, position a broiler pan with a rack on the top rack of your oven so the steaks will be about 4 inches from the heat. -- Remove the broiler pan from the oven and preheat the broiler.
1 Pre-heat oven and skillet by setting the oven to broiler for 15 to 20 minutes. 2  Rub steaks with olive oil, kosher salt and coarsely ground pepper. 3  NOTE: Use any seasonings of your choice. 1 Bring your 1 to 2 inch steaks to room temperature and use a clean cloth to remove excess moisture. 2  Move oven rack 6 inches from heating element. 3  Pre-heat oven and skillet by setting the oven to broiler for 15 to 20 minutes. 4  Rub steaks with olive oil, kosher salt and coarsely ground pepper
2. Broil the steak. Once the broiler has achieved maximum heat, place the steaks on the broiling pan and place in oven. The cooking time for the first side is going to depend on a three major things: how thick your broiling pan is, how thick your meat is, and what type of oven you have.
Broil your steak. Place your steak into the oven on the rack closest to the broiler. Cooking times will vary greatly based on the cut of steak, cooking altitude, type of oven you're using, and how hot the broiler runs; cooking times can range from 3 to 18 minutes. Lightly grease your broiler pan with cooking spray. Broiler pans look like a cookie sheet, with an inset 'grill' top put on them that has slots on it for juices to drip down below to the cookie sheet. Place your steak on the broiler pan, allowing the excess marinade to drain.
Broil the Steak. Once the broiler is fully heated, transfer the seasoned steak to the broiler pan. Cook the steak for five-to-10 minutes, depending on its thickness (five minutes for a one-inch steak, 10 minutes for a two-inch steak), then flip and cook for another five-to-10 minutes, on the second side. 
Place the pan on the top rack, under the broiler. Let the steak broil for four minutes and then carefully flip it to the other side for another four minutes. If you're using a grill pan with raised ridges make sure you don't wiggle the steak around in the pan. You'll mess up the grill marks. After the steaks have broiled on each side, pull the pan out of the broiler. Position the top rack four to five inches from the top of the oven. Take the steak out of the refrigerator as you pre-heat the broiler to its highest possible temperature (Our broiler reaches to 550 degrees). Open a window just in case.