The cell wall is a tough, flexible and sometimes rigid layer that surrounds some types of cells. It surrounds the cell membrane and provides these cells with structural support and protection. In addition, the cell wall acts as a filtering mechanism. A major function of the cell wall is to act as a pressure vessel, preventing over-expansion when water enters the cell. Cell walls are found in plants, fungi and prokaryotic cells but not in mycoplasmas. 1 The secondary cell wall, a thick layer formed inside the primary cell wall after the cell is fully grown. 2  It is not found in all cell types. 3  Some cells, such as the conducting cells in xylem, possess a secondary wall containing lignin, which strengthens and waterproofs the wall.
The primary cell wall of land plants is composed of the polysaccharides cellulose, hemicellulose and pectin. In bacteria, peptidoglycan forms the cell wall. Archaean cell walls have various compositions, and may be formed of glycoprotein S-layers, pseudopeptidoglycan, or polysaccharides. 1 The secondary cell wall, a thick layer formed inside the primary cell wall after the cell is fully grown. 2  It is not found in all cell types. 3  Some cells, such as the conducting cells in xylem, possess a secondary wall containing lignin, which strengthens and waterproofs the wall.
Cell wall is a tough, rigid layer that surrounds some types of cells. Cell wall is a characteristic feature to cells of plants, bacteria, fungi, algae and some archaea. It is located outside the cell membrane. The major function of the cell wall is to provide rigidity, tensile strength, structural support, protection against mechanical stress and infection.
Report Abuse. Cell Walls are only found in plant cells. It is made out of a non-living-cellulose (cellulose is found in celery). The cell wall also gives protection to the cell membrane and the cell in general. 
The cell wall is a rigid structure that supports the cell membrane and lets nutrients and other minerals pass through. It is extremely important to all cells. The cell wall … is rigid (up to many micrometers in thickness) and gives plant cells a very defined shape. The cell wall is in PLANT CELLS ONLY !   I'm here to improve the answer, like the person said above, the cell wall does protect the … cell membrane and is in plant cells only. Here's a little bit more information:   The cell wall provides supprot for the cell membrane and protects it.
Besides the presence of chloroplasts, another major difference between plant and animal cells is the presence of a cell wall. The cell wall surrounds the plasma membrane of plant cells and provides tensile strength and protection against mechanical and osmotic stress. It also allows cells to develop turgor pressure, which is the pressure of the cell contents against the cell wall. 
Think of the cell wall as a wicker basket in which a balloon has been inflated so that it exerts pressure from the inside. Such a basket is very rigid and resistant to mechanical damage. 1 The secondary cell wall, a thick layer formed inside the primary cell wall after the cell is fully grown. 2  It is not found in all cell types. 3  Some cells, such as the conducting cells in xylem, possess a secondary wall containing lignin, which strengthens and waterproofs the wall.
Cell walls are only found in plant cells. It is made out of a non-living-cellulose (cellulose is found in celery). The cell wall also gives protection to the cell membrane and the cell in general. it protects the cell from being shapeless. also the cell wall protects the cell from getting viruses. The cell wall is in PLANT CELLS ONLY !   I'm here to improve the answer, like the person said above, the cell wall does protect the … cell membrane and is in plant cells only. Here's a little bit more information:   The cell wall provides supprot for the cell membrane and protects it.
Cell wall. Definition. noun, plural: cell walls. A membrane of the cell that forms external to the cell membrane whose main role is to give cells rigidity, strength and protection against mechanical stress. It is found in cells of plants, bacteria, archaea, fungi, and algae. Animals and most protists do not have cell walls. Supplement.