Bayberry, also known as wax myrtle, waxberry, or candelberry, is both a shrub and a tree. All members of the bayberry family are classified botanically as Myricaceae, and many varieties are found all over the world, including Japan, South America, the West Indies, the United Kingdom, and in the United States. American bayberry (Myrica cerifera) is a shrub that grows 3 – 8 ft (1 – 2.4 m) high. It is found in eastern North America, in marshes and bogs near sandy Atlantic coastal areas, as well as in similar areas along the shores of the Great Lakes. American bayberry is the variety most often mentioned by herbalist
Description. The scientific name of the Bayberry tree where the Bayberry Root Bark is gathered is Myrica cerifera and its common names are American Bayberry, Bayberry wax tree, Candleberry, Wax Myrtle, Katphala, Myrtle, and Wax berry. The Bayberry tree is crude, firm, and slender and can grow between three and eight feet tall. 
Definition of BAYBERRY. 1. : any of several wax myrtles; especially: a hardy shrub (Myrica pensylvanica) of coastal eastern North America bearing dense clusters of small berries covered with grayish-white wax. 2. : the fruit of a bayberry. See bayberry defined for kids. a: any of several wax myrtles; especially: a hardy shrub (Myrica pensylvanica) of coastal eastern North America bearing dense clusters of small globular nuts covered with grayish white wax b
Myrica /mɪˈraɪkə/ is a genus of about 35–50 species of small trees and shrubs in the family Myricaceae, order Fagales. The genus has a wide distribution, including Africa, Asia, Europe, North America and South America, and missing only from Australia. 
While myricitrin acts as an antibiotic, tannins enclosed by bayberry work as astringents. Generally, bayberry is used either in the form of a decoction or tincture. In some cases, people also use infusions and pastes prepared with the herb's root bark for remedial purposes. As the bark of bayberry triggers an exasperating action on the stomach, when taken in large doses, it works as an emetic. This herbal medication is also used to augment the discharge of nasal mucus in people suffering from head colds.
Plant Taxonomy of Bayberry Shrubs: Northern bayberry shrub, with which I deal in this article (hereafter, simply bayberry shrub), is a common name for the bush that plant taxonomy calls Myrica pensylvanica. The southern cousin is sometimes referred to as southern bayberry shrub; others call it wax-myrtle, which can be deceiving, since Myrica pensylvanica can also be referred to in this way (both are in the Waxmyrtle family). So for purposes of clarity, stick with the scientific name. Plant Type:
Bayberry is a shrub that grows in Texas and the eastern US. The root bark and berries are used to make medicine. Despite safety concerns, some people take bayberry for head colds, painful and swollen intestines (colitis), diarrhea, and nausea. In large amounts, bayberry is used to cause vomiting. Some people also use it to stimulate the circulatory system. Bayberry is sometimes used as a gargle for sore throat, as a douche for vaginal discharge, and as an ointment for skin ulcers and wounds. In manufacturing, the wax extract taken from the berries is used in fragrances and candles
2. bayberry-deciduous aromatic shrub of eastern North America with grey-green wax-coated berries. candleberry, Myrica pensylvanica, swamp candleberry, waxberry. wax myrtle-any shrub or small tree of the genus Myrica with aromatic foliage and small wax-coated berries. 
Researchers have discovered the presence of three triterpenes-myricadiol, taraxerone and taraxerol, in the bayberry root bark. In addition, a flavonoid glycoside called myricitrin was also found to be present in the root bark of this herb. Among these compounds, myricadiol is said to possess mineral corticoid actions. As the bark of bayberry triggers an exasperating action on the stomach, when taken in large doses, it works as an emetic. This herbal medication is also used to augment the discharge of nasal mucus in people suffering from head colds.