A single HCG value doesn’t give enough information about the health or viability of the pregnancy. Within the first 2-4 weeks after fertilization, HCG usually doubles every 48-72 hours. That usually corresponds to HCG levels below 1200 IU. From 1200-6000, the HCG usually takes 72-96 hours to double. Above 6000 IU, the hCG often takes over four days to double. So, the rate of increase in HCG levels normally varies as a pregnancy progresses.
I too had an u/s at what should be 7 weeks based on my last menstrual cycle and no fetus or heart beat was detected-only the yolk sac. The u/s tech said it appears to be more like a 5 week pregnacy. They tested my HCG levels within a 48 hour period and they are not increasing as rapidly as they should. 
I went to the doctor yesterday. I had a u/s done on 9/12 I should be 8 1/2 weeks. Only measuring 5 weeks 6 days. No heartbeat detected. My levels were 22, 375 on wed. On friday HCG levels were 26, 620. My doc said not to worry yet because my levels should not be doubling anymore. I go back Thursday for another u/s
As a pregnancy grows, HCG increases. Measurements of HCG levels can be useful during the early weeks before the fetal heartbeat is seen on ultrasound, usually around 6-7 weeks after last menstrual period, or 4-5 weeks after conception. From 1200-6000, the HCG usually takes 72-96 hours to double. Above 6000 IU, the hCG often takes over four days to double. So, the rate of increase in HCG levels normally varies as a pregnancy progresses.
We did not have sex after this date. I understand that sperm can live up to 5 days inside but that still would put us at 6 weeks or so. Not 5. My HCG levels are in the 52000 range which I was told were normal for 7 weeks but with those levels I would assume I would be showing a heartbeat. Thank you for all of your posts, it is very helpful. I just had a 7 week appointment and the doctor could not detect a heartbeat, she told me I might have had a mis-abortion. My hcg levels are in the 85,000 range and I feel pregnant, no cramping, bleeding. I do get nauseatted if I dont eat but that is normal.
The hCG blood level will initially start off very low (5 mIU/ml), but then rapidly increase, doubling every 2 to 3 days, so that within a few days, to a week or so the hCG level becomes high enough to be detected in the woman's urine, at about 50 to 80 mIU/ml. As you can see the range of normal levels is very wide. hCG levels can be 30 to 50% higher than for a single baby pregnancy, in twin and multiple gestations. These should be used as a guide only. hCG levels double approximately every 48 hours during early normal pregnancy.
It is the hormone that is produced by the placenta after the embryo implants in early pregnancy. HCG is also the hormone that is detected by at home pregnancy tests in early pregnancy. For the first few weeks of pregnancy, HCG levels double every two or three days until finally leveling off. Later in the pregnancy, after the HCG levels begin to level out, they will slowly begin to drop again
Generally from 6 ½ -7 weeks is the time when a heartbeat can be detected and viability can be assessed. A normal heartbeat at 6-7 weeks would be 90-110 beats per minute. The presence of an embryonic heartbeat is an assuring sign of the health of the pregnancy. Progesterone. Progesterone levels also can have quite a variance at this stage of pregnancy. They can range from 9-47ng/ml in the first trimester, with an average of 12-20ng/ml in the first 5-6 weeks of pregnancy. With both hCG levels and progesterone levels, it is not the single value that can predict a healthy pregnancy outcome
The gestational sac is seen earlier than a fetus can be detected on an ultrasound. A gestational sac can be seen as early as the fifth week of pregnancy or three weeks after conception. If no gestational sac is seen, it could mean that the expectant mother ovulated late. If HCG levels are higher and no gestational sac is seen, it could be an indication of an ectopic pregnancy, or a pregnancy that implants outside of the uterus. Transvaginal Ultrasound. Transvaginal ultrasound can be used to detect a fetus or gestational sac up to a week before traditional