If you are under 59 ½: If you withdraw any money from a traditional IRA, you'll be slapped with a 10% penalty on the amount you withdraw. That's in addition to the regular income tax you'll owe on your withdrawal. Bad idea. Roth IRAs offer a bit more flexibility. Generally, you may withdraw your contributions to a Roth penalty-free at any time for any reason, as long as you don't withdraw any earnings on your investments (as opposed to the amount you put in) or dollars converted from a traditional IRA before age 59 ½. In that case, you'll get hit with that same 10% penalty.
As a general rule, you can withdraw your contributions from a Roth IRA at any time without paying tax or penalty. If you withdraw money from a conversion too soon after that event, and before age 59½, you may incur a penalty. Two years later, when you are under age 59½, you withdraw $5,000 from the Roth IRA, and the distribution comes from conversion money because you haven’t made any regular contributions to your Roth IRA. The distribution isn’t taxable because you already paid tax on that amount in the year of the conversion.
To make qualified distributions from a Roth IRA, you must be at least 59½ and it must be at least five years since you first began contributing. And if you converted a regular IRA to a Roth IRA, you can't take out the money penalty-free until at least five years after the conversion. Generally, you may withdraw your contributions to a Roth penalty-free at any time for any reason, as long as you don't withdraw any earnings on your investments (as opposed to the amount you put in) or dollars converted from a traditional IRA before age 59 ½. In that case, you'll get hit with that same 10% penalty.
Under Roth IRA rules (check IRS Publication 590 for more information), you can withdraw up to $5,000 without paying taxes on it, and without paying a penalty. Once you dip into your earnings – that $272.50 – the story changes. You can withdraw what you have contributed at anytime, and for any reason. So, if you have contributed $5,000 a year faithfully for the last three years, you now have $15,000 available to you from your Roth IRA. Why a Roth IRA Makes an Attractive Emergency Fund.
Well, the IRS views withdrawals from a Roth IRA in the following order: your contributions, money converted from traditional IRAs and finally, investment earnings. For example, let's say your IRA has $100,000 in it, $50,000 of which are contributions and $50,000 of which are investment earnings. You can take money out of your Roth IRA anytime you want. However, you need to be careful how much you withdraw or you may get stuck with a penalty. In order to make qualified distributions in retirement, you must be at least 59½ years old, and at least five years must have passed since you first began contributing.
If you wait until after the five-tax-year period to withdraw money from a Roth IRA, the 10% penalty won't be imposed, even if you aren't yet 59 1/2 and don't meet any other exception to the penalty. If you have multiple IRAs, they are considered as one Roth IRA for withdrawal purposes. Further, the IRS has deemed that Roth IRA distributions MUST be withdrawn in a specific order, and that order applies regardless of which Roth IRA is used to take that distribution.
You can also borrow from your 401(k). Penalty-free Withdrawals from Individual Retirement Plans. Normally, if you withdraw money from a traditional or Roth IRA before you reach age 59-1/2, you would pay a 10% early distribution penalty on the distribution, in addition to any regular income tax due. There is, however, an exception for distributions used to pay qualified higher education expenses. If you limit your withdrawals from a Roth IRA to just the contributions, the distribution is tax and penalty free when used for qualified higher education expenses. Funds in a traditional IRA are sheltered from the financial aid need analysis, and so have no impact on financial aid eligibility.
If you take a distribution from the conversion money in your Roth IRA within five years after the conversion, the early distribution penalty will apply even though the distribution isn’t taxable. Example: You convert your traditional IRA, with a value of $20,000, to a Roth IRA, paying tax on the entire amount. Two years later, when you are under age 59½, you withdraw $5,000 from the Roth IRA, and the distribution comes from conversion money because you haven’t made any regular contributions to your Roth IRA. The distribution isn’t taxable because you already paid tax on that amount in the year of the conversion.
Penalties on Earnings from Contributions. Unless an exception applies, most distributions from a Roth IRA before the owner reaches age 59 1/2 will be subject to an early withdrawal penalty of 10% on the amount of the distribution. If you have multiple IRAs, they are considered as one Roth IRA for withdrawal purposes. Further, the IRS has deemed that Roth IRA distributions MUST be withdrawn in a specific order, and that order applies regardless of which Roth IRA is used to take that