It is more generally a measure of spread. The mean is a measure of location. The ratio of the standard deviation to the mean is called the coefficient of variation. This can be helpful in distinguishing two data sets that are given in different units. For example if we are comparing economic data from two different countries, the data might be quoted in different currencies. A similar ratio is the index of dispersion, which is the square of the standard deviation divided by the mean. In biology, for example, we might look at the locations of trees within a wood. An index of dispersion equal to 1 would indicate a dispersal consistent with a Poisson process, i.e. uniformly at random.
It is often expressed as a percentage, and is defined as the ratio of the standard deviation to the mean (or its absolute value,). The CV or RSD is widely used in analytical chemistry to express the precision and repeatability of an assay. Hence, the Kelvin scale is a ratio scale. While the standard deviation (SD) can be derived on both the Kelvin and the Celsius scale (with both leading to the same SDs), the CV is only relevant as a measure of relative variability for the Kelvin scale.
Re: Standard deviation of the Ratio of two means. Yes if you accept that the independent assumption. Reminder: As what Ichbin mentioned above, the variance of the ratio is usually large if the random variable in the denominator have a high probability to fall in the neighborhood of 0. Re: Standard deviation of the Ratio of two means. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taylor_... ndom_variables You may try to replace the theoretical moments by the sample moments, provided that you have collected the sample means, sample variances and the sample covariance of the two data sets. Reply With Quote.
A relative standard deviation, RSD, is simply the ratio of the standard deviation over the mean (typically multiplied by 100 to express as a percentage). RSD = 100* (s/x). For our two examples, (23 mg / 446 mg)*100 = 5.2 % and (0.25 mL / 35.49 mL)*100 = 0.70 %. 
[ 482 ] THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE RATIO, IN A SINGLE NORMAL SAMPLE, OF RANGE TO STANDARD DEVIATION BY H. A. DAVID, H. 0. HARTLEY AND E. S. PEARSON Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization, Sydney, Australia and University College, London 1. 
(Redirected from Standard deviation/mean). Not to be confused with Coefficient of determination. In probability theory and statistics, the coefficient of variation (CV), also known as relative standard deviation (RSD), is a standardized measure of dispersion of a probability distribution or frequency distribution. Hence, the Kelvin scale is a ratio scale. While the standard deviation (SD) can be derived on both the Kelvin and the Celsius scale (with both leading to the same SDs), the CV is only relevant as a measure of relative variability for the Kelvin scale.
Re: Standard deviation of the Ratio of two means. Suppose avg(A) and avg(B) are normally distributed. This will be exactly true if A and B are normally distributed, because a sum of normally distributed deviates is itself normally distributed. Re: Standard deviation of the Ratio of two means. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taylor_... ndom_variables You may try to replace the theoretical moments by the sample moments, provided that you have collected the sample means, sample variances and the sample covariance of the two data sets. Reply With Quote.
Standard deviation is also a component in the Sharpe Ratio, which assesses risk-adjusted performance. For example, Fund A has a standard deviation of 23.56%. This means that approximately 68% of the time, Fund A will be within 23.56% of its mean of 25.33. This statistical measurement of dispersion about an average, depicts how widely a mutual fund's returns varied over a certain period of time. For example, for a fund with a mean annual return of 10% and a standard deviation of 2%, you would expect the return to be between 8% and 12% about 68%of the time, and between 6% and 14% about 95% of the time.
DEFINITION of 'Standard Deviation'. 1. A measure of the dispersion of a set of data from its mean. The more spread apart the data, the higher the deviation. Standard deviation is calculated as the square root of variance. 2. In finance, standard deviation is applied to the annual rate of return of an investment to measure the investment's volatility