Officially the currency in Turkey is the Turkish Lira, however they will accept Euros. In the main tourist resorts, majority of things are priced in Euros, however if you'd prefer to pay in Turkish Lira, they will convert and accept this method. 
The Turkish lira (Currency sign : ₺ / ; Turkish: Tuerk türk) lirası is the currency Of turkey and The Turkish republic Of Northern (cyprus recognised only By). turkey After periods of the lira pegged to the British pound and the French franc, a peg of 2.8 Turkish lira = 1 U.S. dollar was adopted in 1946 and maintained until 1960, when the currency was devalued to 9 Turkish lira = 1 dollar.
What currency is used in Turkey. Question: What currency is used in Turkey. Answer: The local currency used in Turkey is the Turkish Lira. If you are planning to travel to Turkey for your holiday or business trip then using the local Turkish currency Turkish Lira is always the best option. At present Turkey is not part of the European Union and therefore the Euro currency is the not the main local currency of Turkey.
We've got it all here. The official currency of Turkey is the Turkish lira (TL), although the money was called the Turkish pound in Ottoman Turkey. There are 100 Kurush to every unit of Turkish currency (TL) but because inflation is so high in Turkey Kurush are rarely used. Metal currency in Turkey consists of coin money that comes in 500, 1000, 2500 and 5000 Turkish lira.
TRY-Turkish Lira. Turkey, Lira. The Turkish Lira is the currency of Turkey. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Turkey Lira exchange rate is the TRY to EUR rate. The currency code for Lira is TRY, and the currency symbol is. Below, you'll find Turkish Lira rates and a currency converter. 
Buying Turkish Lira in advance for your holiday is still one of the best ways to exchange your holiday money compared to airport exchange bureau’s and using your bank debit or credit card abroad. Making sure you have Turkish currency in advance for when you arrive will save time, hassle and money. At present Turkey is not part of the European Union and therefore the Euro currency is the not the main local currency of Turkey.
The Turkish lira (Currency sign : ₺ / ; Turkish: Tuerk türk) lirası is the currency Of turkey and The Turkish republic Of Northern (cyprus recognised only By). Turkey The turkish lira is subdivided into 100. kuruş After periods of the lira pegged to the British pound and the French franc, a peg of 2.8 Turkish lira = 1 U.S. dollar was adopted in 1946 and maintained until 1960, when the currency was devalued to 9 Turkish lira = 1 dollar.
If you do have Euros with you whilst you are in Turkey then you will find that some places in tourist locations including Istanbul will accept Euros as payment, however, with anywhere else in the world the local currency always offers the best exchange rates and the same applies with the Turkish Lira exchange rates. At present Turkey is not part of the European Union and therefore the Euro currency is the not the main local currency of Turkey.