Suzanne /su-z-anne/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of French and Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Suzanne is  lily, rose. Variant of Susan. Ballerina Suzanne Farrell; actresses Suzanne Pleshette, Suzanne Sommers. Kreatif forms: Sazanne, Sizanne, Suzanle. Suzanne is a very popular first name for females (#153 out of 4276, Top 4%) but a unique surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Suzanne for girls.
My name is Suzanne, and I was born in 1985. I was always the only student named Suzanne in my school, and I liked the uniqueness. I think Suzanne is a good name because it isn't as common, yet not completely obsure. It doesn't really rhyme with anything-- so I never got picked on for any of that stuff. I am also an Suzanne born in 1961 in the Southwest of French descent, so my name was chosen based on my heritage. I was given no middle name because my Dad thought that long first names and short last names or vice versa; were how names should be and Suzanne was too long.
Suzanne is a common female given name that was particularly popular in the United States in the 1950s and 1960s. It remained in the top 200 most popular names in the United States between 1930 and the late 1980s. Form of the Hebrew name שׁוֹשַׁנָּה (Shoshannah). This was derived from the Hebrew word שׁוֹשָׁן (shoshan) meaning lily (in modern Hebrew this also means rose). However, it has also been regularly used in English speaking countries since before the start of the 20th century.
Suzanne. 1. Suzanne is a common female given name that was particularly popular in the United States in the 1950s and 1960s. It remained in the top 200 most popular names in the United States between 1930 and the late 1980s. Suzanne was originally the French form of Susan or Susanna, but it has also been regularly used in English speaking countries since before the start of the 20th century. The name is from the Hebrew Shoshana, meaning lily. It may also be spelled Susanne, and common diminutives are Sue and Suzy. 2
Meaning of Suzanne. English name. In English, the name Suzanne means-lily. Other origins for the name Suzanne include-English, French, German, Hebrew.The name Suzanne is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning
French Meaning: The name Suzanne is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Suzanne is: Lily.Susannah. In the apocryphal Book of Tobit Susannah courageously defended herself against wrongful accusation. White lilies grew in the Biblical city of Susa in Persia. German Meaning: The name Suzanne is a German baby name.
Meaning & History. From σουσαννα (Sousanna) , the Greek form of the Hebrew name שׁוֹשַׁנָּה (Shoshannah) . This was derived from the Hebrew word שׁוֹשָׁן (shoshan) meaning lily (in modern Hebrew this also means rose), perhaps ultimately from Egyptian sšn lotus. In the Old Testament Apocrypha this is the name of a woman falsely accused of adultery.
However, the Hebrew root for the name for the lily, שושן, is derived from the root שוש or ששנ, meaning to be joyful, bright, or cheerful, which is the basis for the word and name ששון Sasson, meaning joy of life*. The Persian name for lily is سوسن sousan, susan. 