Report Abuse. For just feeding, I spend about $2.50 a horse per day on average. Hard keepers will definately cost more, those not on feed less. This doesn't include supplements and daily dewormer for the horses in conditioning. Figure it out that I spend $75 a horse per month on average.. It costs me $250.00 per month if I average out vet bills and farrier. I have a 13 hand POA, a 14 hand Mustang and a 15.2 hand Paint horse. I already have all my tack but periodically need to invest in fencing or other things around the barn. Those bills would be above the figure I quoted in the beginning of this post.
Most horse owners spend about $60 to $100 per month on hay, salt and supplements – and some spend much more, particularly if they feed grain. If you're planning to buy horses, you probably already know how much you're willing and able to spend on an equine companion. Add in shoeing, and you could pay $80 to $100 every two months. Routine medical care is an additional cost of owning a horse and includes vaccinations, de-worming and annual teeth cleaning. For a healthy horse, this can cost as little as $300 a year.
Farrier expenses are a little more predictable. If you plan to keep your horse unshod the average cost of a foot trimming will normally run around $25.00 to $30.00. The rate at which your horse requires his feet to be trimmed will vary depending on his natural hoof condition, activity levels and atmosphere. 
Best Answer: I have no grass, so I have to feed hay year-round. It costs me $250.00 per month if I average out vet bills and farrier. I have a 13 hand POA, a 14 hand Mustang and a 15.2 hand Paint horse. I already have all my tack but periodically need to invest in fencing or other things around the barn. Those bills would be above the figure I quoted in the beginning of this post.
The cost of keeping a horse varies widely depending on where you live and the level of service your stable provides. Simple pasture boarding can cost as little as $100 a month. However, stable boarding can cost $500 or more. If you plan to keep your horse on your own land, you’ll also need to consider whether the property is adequately equipped. First, you'll need about two acres of good pasture per horse for grazing. Add in shoeing, and you could pay $80 to $100 every two months. Routine medical care is an additional cost of owning a horse and includes vaccinations, de-worming and annual teeth cleaning. For a healthy horse, this can cost as little as $300 a year.
Minimum cost per day to keep one horse is $5.01 per day or $1828.65 per year. The costs quickly increase with: 1  feeding more expensive concentrates or supplements. 2  you have unexpected veterinarian bills. 3  immunizing for other diseases such as West Nile Virus. 4  a horse that requires shoes. Boarding. Boarding a horse can cost anywhere from $100 per month for pasture board, with no inside stabling to close to $1000 per month in barns with stalls, individual turn-out, arenas and other amenities close to urban areas.
Feed and forage. Hay/haylage is likely to cost in the region of £45 a month, subject to price fluctuations, and how much forage your horse requires. Horses that are kept turned out 24/7 will not need hay in the summer, but will need it to supplement their grazing in the winter
This usually costs around $25 or $30. Add in shoeing, and you could pay $80 to $100 every two months. Routine medical care is an additional cost of owning a horse and includes vaccinations, de-worming and annual teeth cleaning. For a healthy horse, this can cost as little as $300 a year.