There are many things that a legal assistant might do as employed by a lawyer or law firm. They can draft contracts, and most other legal documents, which are then reviewed by lawyers to be certain they conform specifically to the requirements of the client and the law. A two to four year college degree may be required to become a legal assistant. A legal assistant's research work may help support the arguments of a court case. A legal assistant may be responsible for conducting preliminary interviews of court witnesses.
Most legal assistants would have completed a bachelor's degree and some have two-year associates degrees. A certified legal assistant is one who has completed the voluntary certification program of a professional association. A legal assistant is a legal professional who does many of the same work that lawyers do. However, there are particular tasks that are only reserved for licensed attorneys. If you really want to become a legal assistant, you should gain an entry-level position in a law firm and work your way up. Then get a certificate and obtain employment as an entry-level legal assistant. Actually, a lot of legal assistants start working with an administrative role and eventually become a paralegal
Under the direction of attorneys and paralegals, assistants who work in law offices may prepare legal complaints, motions, summonses and subpoenas. They may also conduct research, review legal publications and verify citations or quotes. 
According to the American Bar Association, which also recognizes paralegals and legal assistants as one and the same, a legal assistant is a person whose education, training, or experience qualifies them to complete legal work with the supervision and direction of an attorney. There’s no need to be. A paralegal and a legal assistant do the exact same types of work. The National Association of Legal Assistants recognizes the terms as identical, and working paralegals and legal assistants do too. In reality, whether you’re called a paralegal or a legal assistant depends mostly on your employer’s preference
Legal Assistant. A person, working under the supervision of a lawyer, qualified through education, training, or work experience to perform substantive legal work that requires knowledge of legal concepts and is customarily, but not exclusively, performed by a lawyer; also known as a paralegal. 
Paralegals and legal assistants may conduct legal research. Paralegals and legal assistants do a variety of tasks to support lawyers, including maintaining and organizing files, conducting legal research, and drafting documents. The median annual wage for paralegals and legal assistants was $46,990 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $29,420, and the top 10 percent earned more than $75,410.
A paralegal is an individual, qualified by education, training or work experience who is employed or retained by a lawyer, law office, corporation, governmental agency or other entity and who performs specifically delegated substantive legal work for which a lawyer is responsible. A paralegal is protected under the conduit theory, which means he or she is working as an enhancement of an attorney and what he or she does is due to instruction by the attorney and the attorney is ultimately responsible. Paralegals often have taken a prescribed series of courses in law and legal processes.
A paralegal or legal assistant is a trained person, often with certification from state or government agencies, who performs a variety of support jobs for supervising lawyers. A two to four year college degree may be required to become a legal assistant. A legal assistant's research work may help support the arguments of a court case. A legal assistant may be responsible for conducting preliminary interviews of court witnesses.
Job skills required to be a paralegal, legal assistant or legal secretary. To perform the legal tasks assigned to them by an attorney, legal staff members must possess certain skills. Computer skills are required because a growing number of law offices, and courts, are paperless. Many clients wonder what does a paralegal do for me. The simple answer to that question is a paralegal does whatever tasks assigned to him or her by the supervising attorney to assist the attorney in representing the client. What does a paralegal do :