Improved Answer. In Arthropods. The blue crab is called the blue crab because some specimens are  quite blue, but mainly it's their claws/appendages which hold the  color.   But either way, blue crabs … have blue on them, and thus you have a  Blue crab. 10 people found this useful. Jane Savage. The bottom part of your hand is the Palmar side and the top part is the Dorsal side.
Report Abuse. RyBialach is actually correct. The technical, proper term for a crab's claws is chelae. Although some people may call them claws, pincers or pinchers, those are just common names, like calling human manus a hand, paw, mitt or meathook. haysoos2 · 9 years ago. Thumbs up
Crabs often show marked sexual dimorphism. Males often have larger claws, a tendency which is particularly pronounced in the fiddler crabs of the genus Uca (Ocypodidae). In fiddler crabs, males have one claw which is greatly enlarged and which is used for communication, particularly for attracting a mate. Crabs vary in size from the pea crab, a few millimetres wide, to the Japanese spider crab, with a leg span of up to 4 metres (13 ft). About 850 species of crab are freshwater, terrestrial or semi-terrestrial species; they are found throughout the world's tropical and semi-tropical regions.
Crabs are found in all of the world's oceans, while many crabs live in fresh water and on land, particularly in tropical regions. Crabs vary in size from the pea crab, a few millimetres wide, to the Japanese spider crab, with a leg span of up to 4 metres (13 ft). About 850 species of crab are freshwater, terrestrial or semi-terrestrial species; they are found throughout the world's tropical and semi-tropical regions.
The hands and feet of people with ectrodactyly are often described as claw-like and may include only the thumb and one finger (usually either the little finger, ring finger, or a syndactyly of the two) with similar abnormalities of the feet. 
While carrying eggs like this, she is called a sponge or berry crab. Incubation time is 14 days. The megalops (or larvae), pass through eight stages in about two months before they begin to look like crabs. The blue crab's carapace (or shell) is about 7 inches (17.8 cm) wide and 4 inches (10.2 cm) long. It weighs 1 to 2 pounds (0.45 to 0.9 kg) when fully grown. The back of the blue crab is dark or brownish green and is drawn out on each side into a large spine. When fully grown the spine may be more than 8 inches wide.
Cheliped : (Pronounced kee-li-ped) chelipeds (chela=claw and ped=foot).. Also called grasping claws because of the non-aggressive ways they are used, the chelipeds are what a hermit crab uses to grip while climbing and protect during a crab fight. Antennae: sense organs also known as 'feelers' help the hermit crab smell and taste. A hermit crab has two pairs of anteannae at the front of their head, with two being long and two being short. The long pair are called antennas and the short pair antennules. Antennas are used to touch and sense other hermit crabs and objects.The antennules are what a hermit crab uses to smell and taste. Antennule: a small antenna, esp. one of the foremost pair of a crustacean
1 Immediately after the molt, the crab's new shell is pliable and easily stretched. 2  In this condition, the crab is called a soft crab or a soft shell crab. 3  Large amounts of water are consumed prior to and shortly after the molt, causing the soft shell to expand and increase in size. 1 These crabs are called sponge crabs and hatching of the eggs occurs in approximately 2 weeks after the formation of the sponge. 2  Over the two weeks the sponge gradually turns from orange to brown and then black as the larval crabs develop inside the egg.
, which also is called by the name king crab, is not a crustacean, and the hermit crab hermit crab,a crustacean distinguished from true crabs by its long, soft, spirally coiled abdomen terminating in an asymmetrically hooked tail. The blue crab blue crab,common name for a crustacean, Callinectes sapidus, found on the S Atlantic and Gulf coasts of North America. The blue crab is a member of the family of swimming crabs known as the Portunidae and is characterized by a broad, semitriangular carapace (shell).....