1 Toss potatoes with olive oil and desired seasoning. 2  Organize sweet potatoes on a baking pan. 3  Be sure your baking pan is large enough to bake the sweet potato wedges in a single layer so they brown evenly. 4  Bake at 400 degrees Fahrenheit for 20 to 30 minutes, turning once, until tender. Baking sweet potatoes in your oven is a simple but delicious method to prepare them. Here’s how to do it: 1  Rinse the sweet potatoes thoroughly with a brush, then pat dry. 2  Prick the sweet potatoes with a fork. 3  Bake at 425 degrees Fahrenheit for 40 to 60 minutes or
1 Bake for 45 minutes for sweet potatoes/yams that are 2-3 inches in diameter. 2  For sweet potatoes that are up to 4 inches in diameter, bake for an hour. 3  For super large sweet potatoes, bake for an hour and 15 minutes. 4  After the time has elapsed, don't open the oven but turn it off. 1 For super large sweet potatoes, bake for an hour and 15 minutes. 2  After the time has elapsed, don't open the oven but turn it off. 3  Let the sweet potatoes sit in the oven for at least 30 minutes but up to an hour. 4  Remove from the oven and eat immediately, or remove the skin and store in a container in the fridge.
1 Turn the oven on to 425. 2  Bake for 45 minutes for sweet potatoes/yams that are 2-3 inches in diameter. 3  For sweet potatoes that are up to 4 inches in diameter, bake for an hour. 4  For super large sweet potatoes, bake for an hour and 15 minutes. 1 For super large sweet potatoes, bake for an hour and 15 minutes. 2  After the time has elapsed, don't open the oven but turn it off. 3  Let the sweet potatoes sit in the oven for at least 30 minutes but up to an hour. 4  Remove from the oven and eat immediately, or remove the skin and store in a container in the fridge.
1 Don't preheat the oven. 2  Prick your sweet potatoes each 2-3 time with a fork, then place them directly on the oven rack in the middle of the oven, above the foil. 3  Turn the oven on to 425. 4  Bake for 45 minutes for sweet potatoes/yams that are 2-3 inches in diameter. 1 For super large sweet potatoes, bake for an hour and 15 minutes. 2  After the time has elapsed, don't open the oven but turn it off. 3  Let the sweet potatoes sit in the oven for at least 30 minutes but up to an hour. 4  Remove from the oven and eat immediately, or remove the skin and store in a container in the fridge.
1 Place the cut sweet potatoes in the baking dish and turn them so that they are coated with the olive oil. 2  Sprinkle moderately with oregano, and salt and pepper (to taste). 3  Bake in a preheated 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) oven for 60 minutes or until soft. 1 Cut them into medium size pieces. 2  Place the cut sweet potatoes in the baking dish and turn them so that they are coated with the olive oil. 3  Sprinkle moderately with oregano, and salt and pepper (to taste). 4  Bake in a preheated 350 degrees F (175 degrees C) oven for 60 minutes or until soft.
Today's microwave recipe: How to cook a sweet potato in the microwave. It's quick-quick and easy, whether for a fast at-home or office-kitchen lunch or a vegetable for supper. 
How to Cook Sweet Potatoes Quickly. A quick way to have cooked sweet potatoes is to prick them with a knife or fork several times, then pop them into the microwave. Small sweet potatoes (5-inches long, 2-inches in diameter) take about 3 to 4 minutes to become soft in the microwave. 
1 For sweet potatoes that are up to 4 inches in diameter, bake for an hour. 2  For super large sweet potatoes, bake for an hour and 15 minutes. 3  After the time has elapsed, don't open the oven but turn it off. 4  Let the sweet potatoes sit in the oven for at least 30 minutes but up to an hour. 1 For super large sweet potatoes, bake for an hour and 15 minutes. 2  After the time has elapsed, don't open the oven but turn it off. 3  Let the sweet potatoes sit in the oven for at least 30 minutes but up to an hour. 4  Remove from the oven and eat immediately, or remove the skin and store in a container in the fridge.
Directions. Preheat oven to 375 degrees F. Lay the sweet potatoes out in a single layer on a roasting tray. Drizzle the oil, honey, cinnamon, salt and pepper over the potatoes. Roast for 25 to 30 minutes in oven or until tender. Take sweet potatoes out of the oven and transfer them to a serving platter. Drizzle with more extra-virgin olive oil. 