1 Flowering crab apple trees are often mistaken for cherry trees, but if you look closely at their leaves, you will not see the small red glands. 2  Crab apple trees don’t have the dense cascades of flowers that cherry trees have; their flowers are more delicate looking. 
What do apples look like? An Apple Is Red, green or yellow, usually the Apple has a round shape to it, and a stem and the core inside, the core and the stem is attached to each other, but the stem is s … ticking out. An apple is very good to eat. 14 people found this useful.
So there have been many fights in the comments on Apple Blossom's page about how ugly Apple Blossom's toy is. I agree that some Apple Blossom toys can look ugly depending on how they're painted, but some can also look pretty cute. For those of you who make comments about how ugly Apple Blossom is: Okay, we get it. You don't have to scream it in all caps or ask people Y DO U THINK SHES CUTE SHES UGLY!!!. It's just your opinion that Apple Blossom is ugly, and it's the other person's opinion that she's cute. 
The apple tree (Malus domestica) is a deciduous tree in the rose family best known for its sweet, pomaceous fruit, the apple. It is cultivated worldwide as a fruit tree, and is the most widely grown species in the genus Malus. 
An Apple Blossom looks like a pretty Flower its the color Pink and white and the stem is really green you could look what an apple blossom looks like on google images :). An Apple Is Red, green or yellow, usually the Apple has a round shape to it, and a stem and the core inside, the core and the stem is attached to each other, but the stem is s … ticking out.
The apple blossom is a typical angiosperm flower, with petals surrounding multiple pollen-producing structures called stamens, the male reproductive organs of the flower, which are crowned with sticky pollen-collecting stigma. The apple blossom is the state flower of both Michigan and Arkansas. The flower was chosen as the state flower by the Michigan legislature in 1897, and the specific variety chosen is Pyrus coronaria, the crabapple, because it is native to Michigan.
Want something as close as possible to looking like the flowers on a cherry blossom tree. It is for a gift, and cherry blossoms are her favorite flower, so hoping to find something similar. Update: Ok, lol. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: cherry blossom-type flowers aren't what you find at the florists usually (they don't really sell the kinds of flowers that grow on trees) but you could maybe see if there's an apple tree anywhere nearby and get the blossoms from that since they look similar.
Most apple blossom petals are are pink when the flower first blooms, and they fade to white as the season progresses. Apple cultivars can be classified into four groups, depending on their blooming periods: early flowering, midseason flowering, late-season flowering and very-late-season flowering. The apple blossom is the state flower of both Michigan and Arkansas. The flower was chosen as the state flower by the Michigan legislature in 1897, and the specific variety chosen is Pyrus coronaria, the crabapple, because it is native to Michigan.
Where to Plant. Choose a planting location for your apple blossom tree that will accommodate an average height of 30 to 40 feet, and if planting multiple apple blossom trees, plant 30 to 40 feet apart so their canopies can grow to their full potential. 