There is a crude called Brent and it is produced in the North Sea – that’s a fact. However the Brent that crude traders talk about – the one that is used as a benchmark for international pricing and that underlies the ICE Brent futures contract – is actually more than just Brent crude. 
1 West Texas Intermediate (WTI) Oil, aka Texas Sweet Light, is a type of crude oil used as a benchmark in oil pricing and the underlying commodity of New York Mercantile Exchange's oil futures contracts. 2  WTI and Brent Crude are usually referenced in Western news reports about oil prices. 3  WTI is lighter than Brent Crude. 1 It is commonly used for processing into gasoline. 2  Brent Crude consists of Brent Crude, Brent Sweet Light Crude, Oseberg, and Forties. 3  Brent Crude is sourced from the North Sea. 4  The name 'Brent' comes from the formation layers-Broom, Rannoch, Etieve, Ness and Tarbat.
The Brent Crude oil marker is also known as Brent Blend, London Brent and Brent petroleum. The other well-known classifications (also called references or benchmarks) are the OPEC Reference Basket, Dubai Crude, Oman Crude, Urals oil and West Texas Intermediate (WTI). Brent crude oil prices (in dollars and euros). The ICE Futures Europe symbol for Brent crude futures is B. It was originally traded on the open outcry International Petroleum Exchange in London, but since 2005 has been traded on the electronic Intercontinental Exchange, known as ICE.
There is a crude called Brent and it is produced in the North Sea – that’s a fact. However the Brent that crude traders talk about – the one that is used as a benchmark for international pricing and that underlies the ICE Brent futures contract – is actually more than just Brent crude. 
Sweet crude oil is a type of petroleum. The New York Mercantile Exchange designates petroleum with less than 0.42% sulfur as sweet. Petroleum containing higher levels of sulfur is called sour crude oil. Sweet crude oil contains small amounts of hydrogen sulfide and carbon dioxide. Light sweet crude oil is the most sought-after version of crude oil as it contains a disproportionately large fraction that is directly processed (fractionation) into gasoline (naphtha), kerosene, and high-quality diesel (gas oil).
Brent crude is a light sweet crude from the North Sea that is an established “brand” and trading blend of many North Sea oils. It has an API of 38 and is widely used in Europe. The short answer is that the name comes from the Brent oilfield in the UK sector of the North Sea. But the name of the Brent oilfield comes from somewhere else. Indirectly it is the name of a bird. The Brent Goose. Shell and Esso which discovered the field in 1972 named all of their fields after birds
1 Brent Crude consists of Brent Crude, Brent Sweet Light Crude, Oseberg, and Forties. 2  Brent Crude is sourced from the North Sea. 3  The name 'Brent' comes from the formation layers-Broom, Rannoch, Etieve, Ness and Tarbat. 1 It is commonly used for processing into gasoline. 2  Brent Crude consists of Brent Crude, Brent Sweet Light Crude, Oseberg, and Forties. 3  Brent Crude is sourced from the North Sea. 4
Light (API Gravity 37.5°) and sweet (having low sulfur/sulphur content), it is a blend of UK's two North Sea oils: Shell Oil Company's Brent-field crude and British Petroleum Company's Ninian-field crude, both of which are past their peak in terms of production which now stands at about 500,000 barrels a day. Brent crude. Best known of the three benchmark crude oils (the other two are 'West Texas Intermediate' and 'Dubai') against which other crude oils are priced.
Brent is also an acronym for the differing layers of an oil field: Broom, Rannoch, Etieve, Ness, and Tarbat. Brent oil is considered a more sour commodity than WTI, though both crudes are considered sweet oils. When oil has a total sulfur level greater than half a percent, it is considered sour, while a content less than 0.5% indicates that an oil is ‘sweet’. Brent has a sulfur level of about 0.37%.