Peutz-Jeghers syndrome is a rare condition that can be passed from affected parents to their children. So it can be inherited. Which means that sometimes cervical cancer is inherited this way too. There are other rare conditions like this as well but they aren't involved in most cases of cervical cancer. Like I said, most of these come from that virus, HPV. Yes, but the risk is tiny. And even if babies do get the HPV virus from mom, their bodies usually get rid of the virus on their own. Having said all of this, I don't want to imply that there aren't any cases where cervical cancer isn't inherited. It does happen occasionally.
The most important risk factor for cervical cancer is infection by the human papilloma virus (HPV). HPV is a group of more than 150 related viruses, some of which cause a type of growth called papillomas, which are more commonly known as warts. For example, exposing skin to strong sunlight is a risk factor for skin cancer. Smoking is a risk factor for many cancers. But having a risk factor, or even several, does not mean that you will get the disease. Several risk factors increase your chance of developing cervical cancer.
Cervical Cancer Experts. Cervical dysplasia is caused by a sexually transmitted infection with a common virus, the Human Papillomavirus (HPV). Cervical dysplasia can lead to cervical cancer; the third leading cause of cancer death in women. In the U.S., cervical cancer remains the sixth most commonly diagnosed cancer. 
The vast majority of cervical cancer cases are caused by an HPV viral infection. HPV is a sexually transmitted virus that is extrememly common for both men and women. It is important to know that a positive HPV test or an abnormal Pap test does not mean that the patient will develop cervical cancer.
Generally, cervical cancer isn't caused by a genetic disposition, but rather a virus called HPV (human papilloma virus). Now, there are exceptions of course, but from what I'm led to believe, the vast majority of cervical cancer patients have HPV. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Almost all cervical cancer is caused by HPV (human papilloma virus). You cannot inherit cervical cancer but there can be a familial tendency for such a cancer in your genes just as the color of your eyes and hair. If cancer is in your history, you have a greater risk, but it is not hereditary.   Answer You can inherit a disposition to cancer, i.e. be at greater risk of developing a cancer due to genes passed down from a parent. However, the diseased state of cancer itself is not directly passed down through generations.
Therefore, YES, certain types of cancer are hereditary. Current scientific opinion is that cancer is a disease caused by mutations in DNA or changes in the way certain genes are expressed, so by its very nature, cancer can be hereditary. If cancer is in your history, you have a greater risk, but it is not hereditary.   Answer You can inherit a disposition to cancer, i.e. be at greater risk of developing a cancer due to genes passed down from a parent. However, the diseased state of cancer itself is not directly passed down through generations.
WASHINGTON (AP) — U.S. government health regulators have cleared a genetic test from Roche as a first-choice screening option for cervical cancer. It was a role previously reserved for the Pap smear, the decades-old mainstay of women's health. 
HPV infection is necessary but not sufficient for the development of cervical cancer, because most individuals (70% to 90%) eliminate the virus 12 to 24 months after initial diagnosis without intervention [5] , [6] . Abstract. Epidemiological and laboratory-based studies have identified infection with one of 15 high-risk human papillomavirus (HPV) types as a necessary but not sufficient cause of cervical cancer. The prevalence of genital HPV infections is high in young women, but most of the infections regress without interventions