Biodiversity. Tropical forests cover only twelve percent of the land-area of the Earth, yet they are home to between 50 and 90 percent of the world's species. Because of tropical deforestation, at least one species is disappearing every day. 
Rainforests are found in the tropical areas north and south of the equator. The largest rainforest in the world is the Amazon rainforest in South America. Rainforests can also be found throughout Africa, Asia, Australia and Central America. All rainforests have a canopy, which is a layer of branches and leaves formed at the tops of the tall trees that make up the rainforest. In addition to the important role rainforests play in Earth’s climate, they also are an important home to about half of the species of plants and wildlife on the planet. Many of the species found in rainforests are endangered and can only survive in rainforests.
Rainforests are important because trees take in carbon dioxide and produce oxygen. This slows down the greenhouse effect. Also many of the vegetation found in Rainforests can be used to make vaccines, cures and medicines for diseases. Report Abuse. The rainforests are very important to the world for many reasons, most of them being very simple. One major reason is that the plants in the forest turn carbon dioxide into clean air, which helps us fight pollution. Also, by absorbing carbon dioxide, the rainforests help deter the greenhouse effect
They are very important as the plants of the rainforest generate much of the Earth’s oxygen. Interesting Fact: Rainforests cover only 6 %of the Earth's surface but yet they contain MORE THAN 1/2 of the world's plant and animal species! 
There are many reasons why rainforests are important which can be put under the following headings: Biodiversity. Rainforests contain about half of the existing plant and animal species in the world. They contain a third of the world’s bird species and 90% of its invertebrates. The remaining African rainforests contain more animals and plant species than are found anywhere else on the continent
The rainforest is important for numerous reasons. Located between the equator 23.5 degrees north and south, rainforests have two seasons, rainy season and dry season. They also contain millions of species of exotic plants and animals. From medicine to chocolate to paper, we depend on the rainforest. In a nutshell a rainforest is a dense jungle. As the name suggests, rainforests are the forests that receive more than 1000 mm of rainfall throughout the year are mostly found around the middle of the earth near the equator like South and Central America, Africa, Asia and Australia.
Rainforests also stabilize climate, house incredible amounts of plants and wildlife, and produce nourishing rainfall all around the planet. Rainforests 1  : help stabilize the world’s climate; 2  provide a home to many plants and animals; 3  maintain the water cycle. 4  protect against flood, drought, and erosion; 5  are a source for medicines and foods; 6  support tribal people; and. 
Tropical rainforests took between 60 and 100 million years to evolve and are believed to be the oldest and most complex land-based ecosystem on earth, containing over 30 million species of plants and animals. That's half of the Earth's wildlife and at least two-thirds of its plant species! Because most tropical rainforest grows in warm and steamy environments, it contains a huge variety of plants. One hectare of lowland rainforest may contain 1000 trees with up to 300 species.