1 To become a university lecturer, you will need to take postgraduate courses leading to a PhD. 2  To be accepted onto those courses, you will usually need at least a good 2.1 in your degree. 3  A Master's in your chosen field.
On the path to becoming a great teacher there are tests, in-classroom teaching requirements, applications to fill out, background checks and more. Becoming a great teacher is not easy but it is well worth the effort and Teach.com is here to help you every step along the way.
Let us take the question of teaching first. While doing your PhD you may have been offered the chance to do some teaching in your department on an hourly rate. A few universities discourage this, but most have realised that gaining teaching experience is important for future academics.
Graduate secondary/high school. You will need to at a minimum have a secondary/high school degree in order to get the further education necessary to become a teacher. In some countries, certain grades from these school years are necessary. In other words, the better you do, the better your chances.
Experience. To become a lecturer you don't necessarily need work experience, though health specialties or the arts usually require it. If your field is a science such as biology, you will work for two to three years as a research associate before teaching.
To become a lecturer who prepares students for a job that requires registration, certification or licensing, you will likely have to have that same credential. For example, nursing teachers will probably need a nursing license.
1 A degree classification of 2.1 or above. 2  To become a university lecturer, you will need to take postgraduate courses leading to a PhD. 3  To be accepted onto those courses, you will usually need at least a good 2.1 in your degree. 4  A Master's in your chosen field.
You will need a doctoral degree to work as a lecturer at four-year colleges and universities, though specialties such as fine arts may only require a master's. A doctoral degree, made up of master's and Ph.D., requires that you complete a bachelor's program and takes a few years.