Most exit row seats provide a few more inches of seat pitch compared to non-exit row seats so that passengers have more space to access the exit. Seats in front of an exit row may not be able to recline, which can limit their comfort on longer flights. A few airlines have gone to branding exit row seats as a premium economy product-on Virgin America's A320, the exit rows (as well as bulkhead seats) are considered  Main Cabin Select  where meals, alcohol, pay-per-view movies and a higher baggage allowance are all included.
In addition, to comply with federal regulations a passenger seated in an exit seat must have sufficient mobility, strength or dexterity in both arms, hands, and both legs to: 1  Reach upward, sideways, and downward to the location of the emergency exit. Federal regulations require that a Customer select a non-exit seat if he or she cannot or does not wish to perform the following functions:
Since passengers seated in an exit row must be able and willing to assist the crew during an evacuation of the aircraft, civil aviation boards and national governments set specific requirements for passengers seated in an exit row. A few airlines have gone to branding exit row seats as a premium economy product-on Virgin America's A320, the exit rows (as well as bulkhead seats) are considered  Main Cabin Select  where meals, alcohol, pay-per-view movies and a higher baggage allowance are all included.
fStop Images-Halfdark/Brand X Pictures/Getty Images. When one is looking for premium seating in the often confined quarters of the economy cabin of an airplane, the exit row is usually mentioned. The emergency exit rows of an aircraft are usually more spacious, but not universally so. More space comes with more restrictions for this type of seating that should be considered before asking for a seat in the exit row. For airlines that permit advance seat selection, securing a seat in the emergency exit row may be restricted. Many airlines do not permit booking exit row seats in advance for a number of reasons including: 1  making sure that the passenger is appropriate for the seating,
All exit row and bulkhead seats are good right? Wrong. On the SeatGuru seat map, you can see exactly which seats are the most desirable – and in some cases, the exit row seats may indeed be quite a lot better than the others. However, there is more to a good seat than a lot of legroom. But don’t be tricked into picking the exit row or bulkhead seat without doing a little homework – not all good seats are going to provide any extra comfort, and in some cases, the most desirable seats may actually be the worst on the plane.
Because exit row seats have a lot of leg room in front of them, the tray table had to be moved into the armrest. This shaves an inch or more off the width of your seat, making it quite uncomfortable. Sure, you may have legroom, but that may not make up for the tight squeeze of your seat. No space for bags. But don’t be tricked into picking the exit row or bulkhead seat without doing a little homework – not all good seats are going to provide any extra comfort, and in some cases, the most desirable seats may actually be the worst on the plane.
Lastly, there is a difference between Economy Comfort and preferred seating with Delta. Outside the exit row (which is considered preferred seating) the only advantage of preferred seats is they are closer to the front of the plane. They have the same seat pitch and width as the rest of economy. My guess is the emergency exit row on this plane has at least 40″ of pitch. The seat was empty on my flight from SLC to SAN which makes for a much more comfortable flight, but the exit row seat on the A319 was better than the Economy Comfort seat.
The non-reclining seat. Non-reclining seats are usually the seats right in front of the exit row seats. These seats are locked in place to prevent them from being reclined into the exit row. Not everyone likes to recline their seat, but on a long flight, being forced to sit upright can be a real pain. But don’t be tricked into picking the exit row or bulkhead seat without doing a little homework – not all good seats are going to provide any extra comfort, and in some cases, the most desirable seats may actually be the worst on the plane.
Although not all airlines restrict the booking of exit row seating be forewarned-if you or someone you are traveling with falls under the restrictions placed on the emergency exit rows, you/they will be reseated. 
An exit row is a row of seats on board a commercial airliner that is next to an emergency exit. Exit rows may be next to overwing exits or full-sized exit doors. A few airlines have gone to branding exit row seats as a premium economy product-on Virgin America's A320, the exit rows (as well as bulkhead seats) are considered  Main Cabin Select  where meals, alcohol, pay-per-view movies and a higher baggage allowance are all included.