Bistec empanizado (Spanish for 'breaded beefsteak') is a Mexican dish of pieces of salted and peppered sirloin, usually flattened with a meat tenderizing tool, covered in bread crumbs and fried. The dish is usually served in tortillas as a taco. The Tagalog people of the Philippines have a version of bistec known as bistek Tagalog, which is typically made with onions and strips of sirloin beef slowly cooked in soy sauce and calamansi juice. It is known in the Spanish-speaking world as bistec encebollado
Recipe for Mexican Steak (Bistec a la Mexicana). The Bistec a la Mexicana is a popular dish all over Mexico, and its recipe varies depending of which part of Mexico you are. This is a mexican dish that is easy to prepare, but as with most meat recipes it can be tricky to make it perfectly. Preparation: 1) We begin our Mexican bistec recipe by pouring some olive oil to a pan (with tight fitting lid), then heating it up until very hot. Put in the diced onions and fry them until are almost translucent and thoroughly cooked, then add the chopped meat.
1 Bistec a la Mexicana (Mexican Beef Steak) is a popular dish all over Mexico with a range of variations. 2  It is generally cooked with tomatoes, green chilies, and white onions to represent the colors of the Mexican flag. Cook for about 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. 4. Remove the beef shaved steak from the skillet and set aside. 5. Using the same skillet, add 1 tbsp. of olive oil and toss in the white onion rings.
Bistec de lomo (also called filete de lomo)  is a steak cut from the tenderloin of beef, the most expensive part of any cow, Cuban or American. It's the same cut as the filet mignon. It may be sliced into steaks and even cooked whole as in this recipe. These are cut from a chuck roast. Bistec de res  is a bone-in chuck steak. Select grades (as well as some of the cheaper cuts of beef) may also need some mechanical tenderizing. Bistec de churrasco de cuadril -- unlike most churrascos, this one is cut from the bottom sirloin roast.
Bistec is steak; picado means ground or minced. Bistec picado is a dish of browned pieces of meat (beef, traditionally, but lamb or pork are okay too) braised with chilis in tomato sauce and topped with bell peppers or onion, or both. There are so many variations, some spicier and more complex than others. 
Bistec a lo Pobre is a satisfying meal popular throughout most of South America, especially in Chile. The basic elements of bistec a lo pobre are steak, fried potatoes, fried onions, and fried eggs. The name roughly translates to poor man's steak, though the dish is actually quite rich and indulgent. Preparing bistec a lo pobre can leave you with many dirty dishes, but there's a trick to avoid that problem. Keep the components warm in the oven as you prepare them, and use the same deep-sided skillet over and over (I like to use a cast iron). Serve bistec a lo pobre with a side of rice and a small salad. See Also.
A Flavorful Main Course Bistec Encebollado, or steak and onions, is a spiced, flavorful skillet steak prepared with a classic Adobo-garlic rub. Heat oil in large skillet over medium-high heat. Add beef, onions, and marinade to the pan; cover the pan and cook, stirring occasionally, until onions turn translucent and beef is cooked through, about 10 minutes. 3. Evenly divide meat among serving dishes; top with onions and drizzle with sauce.
Bistec de churrasco (Also known as: arrachera, bistec de falda anterior)  The churrasco steak is a long flat cut of  skirt steak , cut from the plate of the cow. Skirt steak is actually the diaphragm muscle of the cow. This is the most popular churrasco cut sold in Miami Cuban restaurants. These are cut from a chuck roast. Bistec de res  is a bone-in chuck steak. Select grades (as well as some of the cheaper cuts of beef) may also need some mechanical tenderizing. Bistec de churrasco de cuadril -- unlike most churrascos, this one is cut from the bottom sirloin roast.
1 Season the beef shaved steak with 1 tsp. each of salt and garlic powder. 2  Heat a skillet over high heat on the stove. 3  Add 1 tbsp. of olive oil to the heated skillet. 4  Add in the package of beef shaved steak. 5  Cook for about 5 minutes, stirring occasionally. 6  Remove the beef shaved steak from the skillet and set aside. Instructions. 1 
Bistec de Palomilla is a Cuban dish consisting of beef round steak marinated in garlic, lime juice, salt and pepper then pan-fried. 