Butane is a gaseous compound that is composed of four carbon atoms. It can either be found as the isomer n-butane or in the form of methylpropane or isobutane. This compound has no color and is highly flammable. It also liquefies easily. Butane is also classified as a natural gas and this simply means that it can be sourced through extraction of fossils. By means of liquefaction, this colorless and flammable compound can be sourced or extracted.
N-Butane. N-Butane, also known as Normal Butane, is a flammable, colorless, mostly nontoxic gas with a natural gas odor. Exposure to 1% of Butane for an interval of 10 minutes will result in a drowsiness feeling, but no other systemic effects. Butane cannot be detected by odor below 0.5% concentration levels. It may cause frostbite if the gas comes in contact with the skin. For more information visit our MSDS database
Temperature, pressure, and the concentration of the oxidizer also influences flammability limits. Higher temperature or pressure, as well as higher concentration of the oxidizer (primarily oxygen in air), results in lower LFL and higher UFL, hence the gas mixture will be easier to explode. Lower explosive limit (LEL): The lowest concentration (percentage) of a gas or a vapor in air capable of producing a flash of fire in presence of an ignition source (arc, flame, heat). The term is considered by many safety professionals to be the same as the lower flammable limit (LFL).
Butane is a flammable hydrocarbon with the molecular formula C 4 H 10. It is a natural gas perhaps best known for its use as a fuel for refillable and disposable lighters. Butane's uses can be observed in many sectors of life. It is a reliable source of energy, and can be obtained through the processing of natural gas. Butane serves as fuel for both the disposable and refillable lighter. Butane is used in this item for its high flammability and its low cost to produce. The butane torch is another item that takes advantage of its flammable properties.
Butane is also used as lighter fuel for a common lighter or butane torch and is sold bottled as a fuel for cooking and camping. In this form it is often mixed with small amounts of hydrogen sulfide and mercaptans which will give the unburned gas an offensive smell easily detected by the human nose. The term may refer to either of two structural isomers, n-butane or isobutane (or methylpropane), or to a mixture of these isomers. In the IUPAC nomenclature, however, butane refers only to the n-butane isomer (which is the isomer with the unbranched structure).
Butane is a hydrocarbon with a formula of C 4 H 10, which means it contains 4 carbon atoms and 10 hydrogen atoms. This gas is considered an alkane, which means it is a member of the alkanine series, a grouping of . . Butane serves as fuel for both the disposable and refillable lighter. Butane is used in this item for its high flammability and its low cost to produce. The butane torch is another item that takes advantage of its flammable properties.
When blended with propane and other hydrocarbons, it is referred to commercially as LPG, for liquified petroleum gas. It is used as a petrol component, as a feedstock for the production of base petrochemicals in steam cracking, as fuel for cigarette lighters and as a propellant in aerosol sprays such as deodorants. In addition, butane acts as a blending agent for gasoline at varying levels throughout the year.
Normal butane is mainly used for gasoline blending, as a fuel gas, either alone or in a mixture with propane, and as a feedstock for the manufacture of ethylene and butadiene, … a key ingredient of synthetic rubber. Isobutane is primarily used by refineries to enhance the octane content of motor gasoline. When blended with propane and other hydrocarbons, it is referred to commercially as LPG, for liquified petroleum gas. It is used as a petrol component, as a feedstock for the production of base petrochemicals in steam cracking, as fuel for cigarette lighters and as a propellant in aerosol sprays such as deodorants.