Mount McKinley (or Denali) in Alaska is the highest mountain peak in the United States and in North America, with a summit elevation of 20,320 feet (6,194 m) above sea level. Measured base-to-peak, it is the tallest mountain on land. At 4,884 metres (16,024 ft) above sea level, Puncak Jaya is the highest mountain in Indonesia, the highest on the island of New Guinea (which comprises the Indonesian West Papua region plus Papua New Guinea), the highest of Oceania (Australian continent), and the 5th highest mountain in political Southeast Asia.
Highest Mountain Peaks. Most of the highest mountains in the world are located in Asia as part of the Himalaya and Karakoram ranges so let’s check out our list of the highest mountain peaks on each continent of the Earth. What is the highest mountain in North America? 
Mount Everest: Highest Mountain in Asia. Mount Everest as seen from Everest Base Camp, Tibet. Mount Everest is the highest mountain on the Asian continent and the highest mountain in the world. Its summit is 29,035 feet (8,850 meters) above sea level. It is located on the border of Nepal and China. Image of Mount Everest copyright by iStockPhoto and Holger Mette
However, the highest mountain in the Australian continent which includes Australia and New Guinea is Puncak Jaya, 4,884 m (16,024 ft) above sea level, in the Indonesian province of Papua on the island of New Guinea which lies on the Australian continental shelf. Some sources claim Mount Wilhelm (4,509 m (14,793 ft)) in Papua New Guinea 's Bismarck Range as the highest mountain peak in Australia, on account of Indonesia being part of Asia and Southeast Asia.
As you would imagine, the highest point is found at the peak of the continent’s highest mountain. In mountaineering this is known as the Seven Summits, which was first postulated and achieved on April 30, 1985 by Richard Bass. At 4,884 metres (16,024 ft) above sea level, Puncak Jaya is the highest mountain in Indonesia, the highest on the island of New Guinea (which comprises the Indonesian West Papua region plus Papua New Guinea), the highest of Oceania (Australian continent), and the 5th highest mountain in political Southeast Asia.
Below you will find a list of the highest points on every continent along with a gallery of each place and pictures of climbers at the summit. Information and factoids on each mountain are provided as well. At 4,884 metres (16,024 ft) above sea level, Puncak Jaya is the highest mountain in Indonesia, the highest on the island of New Guinea (which comprises the Indonesian West Papua region plus Papua New Guinea), the highest of Oceania (Australian continent), and the 5th highest mountain in political Southeast Asia.
Below you can see the highest points on every continent compared to the “ Eight-Thousanders “, comprising of 14 independent mountains on Earth that are more than 8,000 meters (26,247 ft) high above sea level. At 4,884 metres (16,024 ft) above sea level, Puncak Jaya is the highest mountain in Indonesia, the highest on the island of New Guinea (which comprises the Indonesian West Papua region plus Papua New Guinea), the highest of Oceania (Australian continent), and the 5th highest mountain in political Southeast Asia.
The upper summit pyramid of Mount Everest, highest of the Seven Summits. Photograph copyright Richard Collins / Photographer's Choice RF / Getty Images. The Seven Summits, a well-known mountaineering objective, are the highest peaks on each of the seven continents. The Seven Summits, from highest to lowest, are: 1  Asia: Mount Everest 29,035 feet (8850 meters). 2  South America: Aconcagua 22,829 feet (6962 meters). 3  North America: Denali AKA Mount McKinley 20,320 feet (6194 meters). 
There is some discussion about the seven summits. If we follow the Bass list, Australia has as summit Mount Kosciuszko, with a height of only 2,228 m. According to the Messner list, once again Australia has the lowest, with the Carstenz Pyramid (aka Puncak Jaya) at 4,884 m. 