Yeast infections during pregnancy. Find out why you're more susceptible to yeast infections during pregnancy and how to deal with them. Herpes during pregnancy. Find out how having herpes can affect your pregnancy and how to protect your baby. Flu during pregnancy. The flu can be especially dangerous for pregnant women. Find out how to tell if you have the flu during pregnancy and what to d... 
There is also no safe time during pregnancy to drink. All types of alcohol are equally harmful, including all wines and beer. When a pregnant woman drinks alcohol, so does her baby. Women also should not drink alcohol if they are sexually active and do not use effective contraception (birth control). Why Alcohol is Dangerous. Alcohol in the mother's blood passes to the baby through the umbilical cord. Drinking alcohol during pregnancy can cause miscarriage, stillbirth, and a range of lifelong physical, behavioral, and intellectual disabilities. These disabilities are known as fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs).
Aorta Disease and pregnancy. Women who have conditions that affect the aorta, such as aortic aneurysm, dilated aorta, or connective tissue disorders such as Marfan syndrome, are at increased risk during pregnancy. Pressure in the aorta increases during pregnancy and when bearing down during labor and delivery. 
If you already had fifth disease, you can’t get it again. About 1 in 400 women in the United States gets infected with fifth disease during pregnancy. Last reviewed: March, 2012. Fifth disease is a common childhood illness that’s usually pretty mild. But if you get infected during pregnancy, it may hurt your baby. Your provider may monitor your baby’s health during routine prenatal care visits. Fifth disease causes severe anemia in the babies of fewer than 5 percent of infected pregnant women. Severe anemia can cause hydrops, a buildup of fluid in your baby’s body. Hydrops can lead to a baby’s heart failure and death.
When Alcohol is Dangerous. There is no safe time to drink alcohol during pregnancy. Alcohol can cause problems for the developing baby throughout pregnancy, including before a woman knows she is pregnant. Drinking alcohol in the first three months of pregnancy can cause the baby to have abnormal facial features. Why Alcohol is Dangerous. Alcohol in the mother's blood passes to the baby through the umbilical cord. Drinking alcohol during pregnancy can cause miscarriage, stillbirth, and a range of lifelong physical, behavioral, and intellectual disabilities. These disabilities are known as fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASDs).
If you are pregnant and are using a medicine or were using one when you got pregnant, check to see if there is a pregnancy exposure registry for that medicine. The Food and Drug Administration has a list of pregnancy exposure registries that pregnant women can join. Whether or not you should use medicine during pregnancy is a serious question to discuss with your doctor. Some health problems need treatment. Not using a medicine that you need could harm you and your baby. For example, a urinary tract infection (UTI) that is not treated may become a kidney infection.
Fifth disease is a mild rash illness caused by parvovirus B19. This disease is usually not a problem for pregnant women and their babies. About 50% of pregnant women are immune to parvovirus B19. Also, their babies usually do not have any problems. However, sometimes a baby will develop severe anemia, and the woman may have a miscarriage. But, this is not common. It happens in less than 5% of all pregnant women with parvovirus B19 infection and more commonly during the first half of pregnancy.
But there is a small chance the virus can infect the fetus. This raises the risk of miscarriage during the first 20 weeks of pregnancy. Fifth disease can cause severe anemia in women who have red blood cell disorders like sickle cell disease or immune system problems. 1  Low-grade fever. 2  Tiredness. 3  Rash on face, trunk, and limbs. 4  Painful and swollen joints. Some STIs also can be passed from a woman to her baby during pregnancy or delivery. Some ways STIs can harm the baby include: low birth weight, dangerous infections, brain damage, blindness, deafness, liver problems, or stillbirth.