Genghis Khan (1162-1227) was the first and greatest of the Mongol khans. He believed that it was heavens will and his destiny to unite the world by force. Forging an army from a group of unruly Mongol tribes, he almost single-handedly created an empire than spanned half of the known world.
Genghis Khan was a 13th-century warrior in central Asia who founded the Mongol Empire, one of the largest empires in history. By the time he died, the empire controlled a vast amount of territory in China and central Asia, and its armies had ventured as far west as Kiev in modern-day Ukraine.
Genghis Khan achieved immortality eversince he became his empire's local stronggman, he gained power and lead his empire and he wanted to achieve immortality so he can have the ability to live forever, or eternal life.
Mongolian warrior and ruler Genghis Khan created the largest empire in the world, the Mongol Empire, by destroying individual tribes in Northeast Asia.
The great Mongolian leader is seen as one of the most influential innovators of military and political policies. His successful military campaigns of Asia created one of the largest empires in the history of the world. This is Genghis Khan s rise to power.
The rise of Genghis (Chinggis) Khan was one of the most dramatic in history. No other has risen from such a low position, as part of a family eating roots and rodents for survival, to become a great world conqueror. Genghis Khan’s founding of the Mongol Empire was one of the most significant events
Genghis Khan was born Temujin in Mongolia around 1162. He married at age 16, but had many wives during his lifetime. At 20, he began building a large army with the intent to destroy individual tribes in Northeast Asia and unite them under his rule.
Introduction. Mongol leader Genghis Khan (1162-1227) rose from humble beginnings to establish the largest land empire in history. After uniting the nomadic tribes of the Mongolian plateau, he conquered huge chunks of central Asia and China.
In 1167 Temujin, the future Genghis Khan, was born. His father was Yesugei, the head of the Kiyad sub-clan and leader of a small coalition of clans. When Temujin was nine, his father brought him to visit the Okhunugud tribe. During the visit, Yesugei met Borte, the daughter of the Okhunugud leader known as Dei the wise.