The fresh water dolphins are related to the River dolphins. They include Piatanistidae, Ganges and Indus, niidae (Boto or Amazon) , Pontoporiida (Baiji or Franciscana) But, the only dolphin that can live in both is the Tucuxi (Sotalia Fluviatilis) There are may other dolphins that live in salt water though.
Most dolphins live in the shallow waters of the ocean’s continental shelves, both in tropical and more temperate waters. There are also lesser-known species of dolphins that live in rivers of the world located in China, South America, India, Pakistan and Southeast Asia. Some of the larger species of dolphin such as the killer whale may be found living further out (away from the coastline) in deep ocean waters. Dolphins are marine mammals known as cetaceans and are related to whales and porpoises. They range in size from the 4 foot Maui’s dolphin to the 30 foot orca or killer whale. They band together in social groups called pods, and hunt for food such as squid or schools of smaller fish.
Most dolphins live in salt water. Only a few in comparison live in  fresh water. Most of the fresh water dolphin live in the Amazon  basin. China had some. They may still ha … ve some but many people  think they are extinct. A few other rivers have some. A large  number live in the oceans.    Most Dolphin species live in salt water but there are species that  live in rivers such as the Amazon river. Marine Dolphin are also  know to travel up estuaries on occasion.. 
Most Dolphin species live in salt water but there are species that  live in rivers such as the Amazon river. Marine Dolphin are also  know to travel up estuaries on occasion.. They include Piatanistidae, Ganges and Indus, niidae (Boto or Amazon) , Pontoporiida (Baiji or Franciscana) But, the only dolphin that can live in both is the Tucuxi (Sotalia Fluviatilis) There are may other dolphins that live in salt water though.
Answer: Most dolphins live in the ocean, but there are some species which live in rivers. While the most known species like the bottlenose and the spinner dolphin live in the ocean, some other live in rivers like the Amazon river, the Ganges river, the Yangtze river, the La Plata river and the Indus river. The better known of all them is the Pink dolphin, also known as “Boto” who lives in the Amazon river.
You can observe dolphins in both cold and warm waters.. Of course, there are certain species of dolphins that show preference to a particular temperature. The bottlenose dolphin prefers to live in warmer waters. Three species live in fresh water rivers. The fourth species, the La Plata Dolphin, lives in salt-water estuaries and near-shore marine environments. However, it is scientifically classed in the river dolphin family rather than the oceanic dolphin family. These species may never venture towards the oceans.
There are 32 species of oceanic dolphins (Delphinidae family) and six porpoise species (Phocoenidae family) all of which can only survive in salt water. Most dolphin species live in saltwater, but can survive in freshwater for a short time. There are five river dolphin species found in five different rivers. The river dolphins are the only dolphins that are endangered or vulnerable right now. C T · 8 years ago.
The other half is made up primarily of whales and a few species of porpoise. Of the 40 + known species of dolphin most species are not known to live in freshwater environments; at least not for long periods of time. Dolphins that are not considered freshwater dolphins may visit or travel through freshwater environments, but they ultimate return back to their saltwater habitat. 
Dolphins can at times be found in rivers as well. River dolphins are four living species of dolphin, which reside in freshwater rivers and estuaries. They are classed in the Platanistoidea super family of cetaceans. Three species live in fresh water rivers. The fourth species, the La Plata Dolphin, lives in salt-water estuaries and near-shore marine environments. However, it is scientifically classed in the river dolphin family rather than the oceanic dolphin family. These species may never venture towards the oceans.