Necessary for red blood formation, antibody production, cell growth. All the B vitamins are listed on this vitamins and minerals list. Vit. B3 Niacin-Beef liver, brewer's yeast, broccoli, carrots, cheese, corn flour, dandelion greens, tomatoes, fish, eggs, potatoes, wheat germ, whole wheat, carrots. Sodium-All foods contain some sodium. Necessary for maintaining proper water balance and blood pH. Needed for stomach, nerve and muscle function. Sodium is a macromineral on the vitamins and minerals list. Boron-Apples, carrots, grapes, dark green leafy vegetables, raw nuts, pears, whole grains.
Use these charts to find the nutrient contents of your favorite fruits, nuts, proteins and vegetables. Click on the links below to visit each chart: Minerals | Vitamins | Fruits | Vegetables | Nuts & Seeds | Legumes | Proteins. Minerals are elements that originate in the soil and cannot be created by living things, such as plants and animals. Yet plants, animals and humans need minerals in order to be healthy. 
In addition to the nutrients highlighted in our ratings chart, an in-depth nutritional profile for Kale is also available. This profile includes information on a full array of nutrients, including carbohydrates, sugar, soluble and insoluble fiber, sodium, vitamins, minerals, fatty acids, amino acids and more. It is a very good source of vitamin B6, dietary fiber, calcium, potassium, vitamin E, vitamin B2, iron, magnesium, vitamin B1, omega-3 fatty acids phosphorus, protein, folate, and niacin. For an in-depth nutritional profile click here: Kale.
Vitamins in Kale. Kale is rich in vitamins A, B-6, C, E and K. Photo Credit Comstock Images/Comstock/Getty Images. Once used primarily as a frilly garnish, kale is gaining recognition as an immunity-boosting, cancer-fighting cruciferous vegetable. Vitamins A, B-6, C, E and K are in kale's list of essential micronutrients. In addition to its vitamin content, kale offers dietary fiber, calcium, iron, manganese and a host of antioxidant phytonutrients. Steamed, boiled or sauteed, kale provides a wealth of vitamins to support your health. 
Vitamins and Minerals in Kale. Kale are probably best known for being loaded with calcium, but they also can be a great source of vitamin C and beta carotene; in fact a 1-cup serving provides twice the daily requirements for these 2 nutrients. Here is a snapshot of the nutritional makeup of kale. Vitamins and Minerals Found Inside Kale. Kale -- loaded with nutrients our bodies seek, Kale can be both nutritious and delicious when juiced with other ingredients. Here are a few of the questions we attempt to answer about Kale.
~~ Vegetables Chart ~~. Use these charts to find the nutrient contents of your favorite fruits, nuts, proteins and vegetables. Click on the links below to visit each chart: Minerals | Vitamins | Fruits | Vegetables | Nuts & Seeds | Legumes | Proteins. 
All the B vitamins on this vitamins and minerals list need to be included in a broad based vitamin and mineral formula. They work in consort with other vitamins and minerals and food. Vit. B6 Pyridoxine-Brewer's yeast, carrots, chicken, eggs, fish, meat, peas, spinach, sunflower seeds, walnuts and wheat germ. Sodium-All foods contain some sodium. Necessary for maintaining proper water balance and blood pH. Needed for stomach, nerve and muscle function. Sodium is a macromineral on the vitamins and minerals list. Boron-Apples, carrots, grapes, dark green leafy vegetables, raw nuts, pears, whole grains.
A vitamins and minerals list must include choline. Folate Asparagus, barley, beef, bran, brewer's yeast, brown rice, cheese, chicken, dates, green leafy vegetbles, lamb, legumes, lentils, liver, milk, mushrooms, oranges, split peas, root vegetables, salmon, tuna, wheat germ, whole grains and whole wheat. Sodium-All foods contain some sodium. Necessary for maintaining proper water balance and blood pH. Needed for stomach, nerve and muscle function. Sodium is a macromineral on the vitamins and minerals list. Boron-Apples, carrots, grapes, dark green leafy vegetables, raw nuts, pears, whole grains.
The Benefits of Kale. At just 33 calories, one cup of raw kale has: 1  Nearly 3 grams of protein. 2  2.5 grams of fiber (which helps manage blood sugar and makes you feel full). 3  Vitamins A, C, and K. 4  Folate, a B vitamin that’s key for brain development. 5  Alpha-linolenic acid, an omega-3 fatty acid