She said Greek yogurt was the subject of frequent questions. It's a style of yogurt, something like choosing to have drinkable yogurt instead of solid. It appears to have originated in the Middle East, and traditionally was called Greek yogurt, she said. It's a newer product to the United States, but is not called that because it's shipped in from Greece.. Frese said Greek yogurt is processed in a different way than the yogurts American consumers are more used to, and there is no one standard way to make and manufacture this type of yogurt. She said Greek yogurt is a more sticky product, with a tangy and sometimes tart taste. Typically, for making Greek-style yogurt, the milk is concentrated and the water evaporates. Next, the liquid whey would be separated or strained off, resulting in a thicker product, Fres
Greece is the obvious guess, but the history of where this yogurt originated is unclear. This is because Greek yogurt, or “strained yogurt,” is common in South Asia, the East Mediterranean, the Middle East, the U.S. and Greece. Greek yogurt is created from a centuries-old technique of straining out liquid whey, creating a thick, creamy yogurt without the addition of gums, thickeners or milk fat. This straining method makes Greek yogurt not only denser, but also provides twice the protein, less lactose and fewer carbs than regular yogurt.
When it comes to yogurt, it’s all Greek to – well -- the Greeks. Greek yogurt is the latest diet fad to take over Europe and the United States, with millions of fans across two continents gobbling up the creamy foodstuff that is rich in protein and low in fat. What is known abroad as 'Greek yogurt' is called 'straggisto' (strained yogurt) in Greece, Prokopis Ploumbis, a cheesemaker in the rural outskirts of Athens, told AFP. Straggisto is used throughout Greece as a key ingredient for staple dishes like tzatziki dip.
Traditionally, Greek Yogurt may be made from either ewe’s milk or cow’s milk, though cow’s milk is most commonly found in brands sold in the United States. Its thick and creamy texture, created by straining or boiling away excess liquid, defines it from other types of yogurt. 
Yogurt, yoghurt, or yoghourt (/ˈjoʊɡərt/ or /ˈjɒɡət/ ; from Turkish: yoğurt; other spellings listed below) is a food produced by bacterial fermentation of milk. The bacteria used to make yogurt are known as yogurt cultures. Fermentation of lactose by these bacteria produces lactic acid, which acts on milk protein to give yogurt its texture and characteristic tang. Worldwide, cow 's milk, the protein of which is mainly casein, is most commonly used to make yogurt. Milk from water buffalo, goats, ewes, mares, camels, and yaks, however, is also used to produce yogurt in various parts of the world. Da-hi is a yogurt of the Indian subcontinent, known for its characteristic taste and consistency. The word da-hi seems to be derived from the Sanskrit word dadhi, one of the five elixirs, or panchamrita, often used in Hindu ritual.
Greek yogurt is a type of yogurt that is celebrated for its very thick and creamy texture. The process for making it includes extra steps that result in its thickness. It has about the same creamy texture as sour cream, and provides an excellent substitute. I make my own yogurt and then strain it for Greek style. First I stir and boil 1/2 gallon whole milk in a stainless steel pot on the stove. Then I cool it down to about 115 in a sink of cold water. I stir in 1/2 cup room temperature Stonyfield plain whole milk yogurt.
Strained yogurt, Greek yogurt, yogurt cheese, labneh (Arabic: لبنة ‎ labnah), is yogurt which has been strained to remove its whey, resulting in a relatively thick consistency (between that of conventional yogurt and cheese), while preserving yogurt's distinctive, sour taste. Chobani, based in New Berlin, New York, began marketing their Greek-style yogurt in 2007. The Voskos brand entered the US market in 2009 with imported Greek yogurt products at 10%, 2%, and 0% milkfat.
• Sauces: Perhaps the most notable use of Greek yogurt is in tzatziki, a Greek sauce made with strained yogurt, cucumber, garlic, oil, vinegar and dill or mint. Tzatziki is used as a condiment for fried foods and sandwiches, such as gyros. However, Greek yogurt can be used to make all sorts of sauces. Greek yogurt is created from a centuries-old technique of straining out liquid whey, creating a thick, creamy yogurt without the addition of gums, thickeners or milk fat. This straining method makes Greek yogurt not only denser, but also provides twice the protein, less lactose and fewer carbs than regular yogurt.
Cabot of Vermont Greek Yogurt is the best Greek Yogurt in the U.S. market. It has that genuine slight sour taste of good yogurt and the texture is so rich. Try it with muesli in the morning and honey in the afternoon. I make my own yogurt and then strain it for Greek style. First I stir and boil 1/2 gallon whole milk in a stainless steel pot on the stove. Then I cool it down to about 115 in a sink of cold water. I stir in 1/2 cup room temperature Stonyfield plain whole milk yogurt.