Related articles: Chin Implant, Rhinoplasty, Eyelid Surgery, Facelift. 1  Ear pinning typically costs $3,000 to $5,000 for both ears. 2  For example, Heartland Cosmetic & Reconstructive Surgery in Kansas charges about $3,000. 3  The Atlanta Institute for Facial Aesthetic Surgery charges about $3,500 to $4,500. 1 Ear pinning typically is done under general anesthesia or local anesthesia combined with sedative; it lasts one to two hours and is an outpatient procedure. 2  The American Academy of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery provides an overview of otoplasty.
Otoplasty cost is an important concern for many patients. Otoplasty is a simple and safe procedure performed to correct the size and shape of ears and to make them more proportional to the head and acceptable in society. Your Ad Here. Some are born with very tiny ears or flattened ears or ears that are not attractive. The total may come to around $ 3000 but it can range from $ 2500 to $ 5000 depending on the various factors of doctor’s fee, operating rooms, operation charges, hospitalization costs, medicines, etc.
Find Your Surgeon. The average cost of otoplasty is $2,963, according to 2014 statistics from the American Society of Plastic Surgeons. Otoplasty cost can vary widely. The average fee referenced above does not include anesthesia, operating room facilities or other related expenses. A surgeon’s cost for ear surgery may vary based on his or her experience, the type of procedure used, as well as geographic location. Many plastic surgeons offer patient ﬁnancing plans to cover the price of otoplasty, so be sure to ask. Otoplasty costs may include: 1  Surgeon’s fee. 2  Hospital or surgical facility costs.
Otoplasty and Insurance Coverage. The cost of otoplasty can sometimes be offset by insurance, depending on the reason for the procedure. If ear surgery is performed to correct a congenital deformity or defect in the ears, some providers may offer coverage. The cost of ear pinning or reconstructive ear surgery may seem unaffordable at first; however, there are solutions available. While not everyone may be eligible for otoplasty insurance coverage, many people can be helped by the various ear surgery financing op
the cost is depending on what needs to be done. a normal otoplasty for tw ears would be about 4000 euros ,so of course one ear will be half that price. We have been doing Otoplasty (Ear Re-shaping Surgery) for over 25 years. There are a variety of Otoplasty techniques developed by Dr.H.A.Khawaja, Plastic Surgeon, like Transcutaneous Otoplasty, Simplified Otoplasty and others.
1 Ear pinning typically costs $3,000 to $5,000 for both ears. 2  For example, Heartland Cosmetic & Reconstructive Surgery in Kansas charges about $3,000. 3  The Atlanta Institute for Facial Aesthetic Surgery charges about $3,500 to $4,500. 4  Dr. Heather Rocheford, in Minnesota, charges $4,100. 1 Ear pinning typically is done under general anesthesia or local anesthesia combined with sedative; it lasts one to two hours and is an outpatient procedure. 2  The American Academy of Facial Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery provides an overview of otoplasty.
As such, it is difficult to say exactly how much the procedure will cost a prospective patient before they consult a plastic surgeon. The American Society of Plastic Surgeons reports that the average surgeon fee for otoplasty in 2004 was $2,339. When anesthesiology and facility fees are accounted for, the procedure can cost more than $5,000. The cost of ear pinning or reconstructive ear surgery may seem unaffordable at first; however, there are solutions available. While not everyone may be eligible for otoplasty insurance coverage, many people can be helped by the various ear surgery financing op
Ear Pinning Cost admin 2013-05-08T10:14:07+00:00. Ear pinning is a very common cosmetic surgery procedure used to remedy protruding ears. The procedure is also called otoplasty or pinnaplasty. Cosmetic surgery is used to enhance the shape the ears by re-designing the cartilage into a much less protruding appearance. 