Making the world better, one answer at a time. The three main nitrogenous waste products are Ammonia, Urea and Uric Acid. Ammonia can only be tolerated at very low concentratisons, animals that excrete nitrogenous wastes as ammonia need access to lots of water. In this case ammonie excretion is most common in aquatic species. Insects, land snails, many reptiles, and birds, excrete uric acid. Urea and uric acid are like But unlike ammonia or urea, uric acid is largely insoluble in water and can be excreted as a semi solid paste with very little water loss.
Share to: Urea, uric acid, and creatinine are the most important nitrogenous wastes found in urine. Urea is an end product of protein breakdown; uric acid is a metabolite of purine brea … kdown; and creatinine is associated with muscle metabolism of creatine phosphate. 6 people found this useful. There are three types of solid waste:   1. Municipal solid waste (Household Waste) consists of household waste, construction and demolition debris, sanitation residue … , and waste from streets.   2.
Mammals metabolize ammonia into a molecule called urea: As you can see, this molecule contains two atoms of nitrogen. Although it requires metabolic energy to build, it also is less toxic than ammonia, and it requires less water to flush from the system. Your urine's main nitrogenous waste product is urea. Nitrogen combines with other molecules in the body to produce toxic compounds such as ammonia. And so the animal must find a way to excrete these toxins. As we already know, this is the function of the kidneys and the rest of the renal system. Ammonia has only one nitrogen per molecule, but it is quite toxic.
Aquatic animals, such as crustaceans, bony fish and amphibian larvae, are generally ammonotelic because ammonia diffuses more easily through membranes and is more water-soluble than the other types of nitrogenous waste. The main nitrogenous wastes excreted by living organisms are ammonia, uric acid and urea. Living organisms that secrete ammonia are called ammonotelic. Organisms that secrete uric acid are called uricotelic.
Answers. Best Answer: Metabolic processes produce waste, and a great deal of this is in the form of NITROGEN. Nitrogen combines with other molecules in the body to produce toxic compounds such as ammonia And so the animal must find a way to excrete these toxins. As we already know, this is the function of the kidneys and the rest of the renal system. --------------------------------------... We shall see that the form of nitrogenous waste an animal excretes depends on both the animal's evolutionary history and its habitat. Ammonia Most aquatic animals excrete NITROGENOUS WASTES. as ammonia. Ammonia molecules are small and very Figure 40.15 NITROGENOUS WASTES .. Ammonia is a toxic by-product of the metabolic removal of nitrogen from proteins and nucleic acids. Most aquatic animals get rid of ammonia by excreting it in very dilute solutions
Carbon dioxide and some water are excreted by lungs. Other waste materials are removed in the urine.The organs and tissues participating in the excretion of waste products constitute the excretory system. A major function of the excretory system is the excretion of nitrogenous waste. These include ammonia, urea and uric acid .Excretion also helps to maintain a constant body temperature by removing excess heat and maintain a constant internal environment in association with the other system of the body. 
...which contains FOUR nitrogen atoms per molecule. It requires more metabolic energy to make than urea, but it also eliminates more nitrogen per molecule and, is quite non-toxic, and requires very little water to flush from the body. Nitrogen combines with other molecules in the body to produce toxic compounds such as ammonia. And so the animal must find a way to excrete these toxins. As we already know, this is the function of the kidneys and the rest of the renal system. Ammonia has only one nitrogen per molecule, but it is quite toxic.