Correspond with a specific department directly by writing: University of California, Berkeley Graduate Student Affairs Officer, Department of (department name) (the department mailing address and four-digit mail code) Berkeley, CA 94720. Remember to include the four-digit mail code (#) after the department address. Graduate Programs & Deadlines to Apply. In the latest National Research Council (NRC) report, Berkeley had the highest number of top-ranked doctoral programs in the nation. In addition to over 100 graduate programs, Berkeley offers concurrent graduate degrees, interdisciplinary doctoral and exchange programs.
The Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU) also ranks the University of California, Berkeley, fourth in the world overall, and first among public universities. Some department specifics include third in engineering, fourth in social sciences and first in mathematics, physics, chemistry, and life sciences. Ten faculty members and almost 40 students made up the new University of California when it opened in Oakland in 1869. Frederick H. Billings was a trustee of the College of California and suggested that the college be named in honor of the Anglo-Irish philosopher George Berkeley.
The value of a Berkeley education. UC Berkeley provides more than a diploma-we provide a transformational college experience and a lifelong place in our extended Golden Bear family. Our admission program is need-blind: Your financial status will not affect the admission decision. 1  Cost of Attendance. Because we’re looking for students who are likely to succeed at UC Berkeley, grades matter but that is not all.
Summary. University of California--Berkeley is a public institution that was founded in 1868. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 27,126, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 1,232 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. University of California--Berkeley's ranking in the 2016 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 20. Its in-state tuition and fees are $13,432 (2015-16); out-of-state tuition and fees are $38,140 (2015-16).
UC Berkeley employs 24,700 people directly and employees are permitted to unionize and are represented by AFSCME, California Nurses Association (CNA), CUE-Teamsters Local 2010 (formerly the Coalition of University Employees (CUE)), UAW, UC-AFT, and UPTE. Ten faculty members and almost 40 students made up the new University of California when it opened in Oakland in 1869. Frederick H. Billings was a trustee of the College of California and suggested that the college be named in honor of the Anglo-Irish philosopher George Berkeley.
The University of California, Berkeley (also referred to as Berkeley, UC Berkeley, California or simply Cal) is a public research university located in Berkeley, California. Ten faculty members and almost 40 students made up the new University of California when it opened in Oakland in 1869. Frederick H. Billings was a trustee of the College of California and suggested that the college be named in honor of the Anglo-Irish philosopher George Berkeley.
Berkeley (/ˈbɜrkliː/ BURK-lee) is a city on the east shore of San Francisco Bay in northern Alameda County, California, United States. It is named after the Irish eighteenth-century bishop and philosopher George Berkeley. There was a strong prohibition movement in Berkeley at this time. In 1876, the city passed the mile limit law, which forbade sale or public consumption of alcohol within one mile (1.6 km) of the new University of California. Then, in 1899 Berkeley residents voted to make their city an alcohol-free zone
UC Berkeley does not have a medical school; however, the university offers the UC Berkeley – UCSF Joint Medical Program with the University of California, San Francisco, a standalone medical school that is located nearby. Ten faculty members and almost 40 students made up the new University of California when it opened in Oakland in 1869. Frederick H. Billings was a trustee of the College of California and suggested that the college be named in honor of the Anglo-Irish philosopher George Berkeley.
UC Berkeley provides more than a diploma-we provide a transformational college experience and a lifelong place in our extended Golden Bear family. Our admission program is need-blind: Your financial status will not affect the admission decision. 1  Cost of Attendance. 2  How to Apply for Financial Aid. 3  Jobs & Careers. UC Berkeley has a long tradition of providing access to a world-class education for students from all financial backgrounds.