food. n. 1. Material, usually of plant or animal origin, that contains or consists of essential body nutrients, such as carbohydrates, fats, proteins, vitamins, or minerals, and is ingested and assimilated by an organism to produce energy, stimulate growth, and maintain life. 2. n. 1. (Biology) any substance containing nutrients, such as carbohydrates, proteins, and fats, that can be ingested by a living organism and metabolized into energy and body tissue. 2. (Cookery) nourishment in more or less solid form as opposed to liquid form: food and drink.
Definition of FOOD for Kids. 1. : the material that people and animals eat: material containing carbohydrates, fats, proteins, and supplements (as minerals and vitamins) that is taken in by and used in the living body for growth and repair and as a source of energy for activities. 2. 1. : material consisting essentially of protein, carbohydrate, and fat used in the body of an organism to sustain growth, repair, and vital processes and to furnish energy; also: such material together with supplementary substances (as minerals, vitamins, and condiments). 2. : nutriment in solid form.
the capacity to do work or to perform vigorous activity. Energy may occur in the form of heat, light, movement, sound, or radiation. Human energy is usually expressed as muscle contractions and heat production, made possible by the metabolism of food that originally acquired the energy from sunlight. Energy assumes several forms; it may be thermal (in the form of heat), electrical, mechanical, chemical, radiant or kinetic. In doing work, the energy is changed from one form to another or to several forms. In these changes some of the energy is 'lost' in the sense that it cannot be recaptured and used again.
Medical Definition of FOOD. 1. : material consisting essentially of protein, carbohydrate, and fat used in the body of an organism to sustain growth, repair, and vital processes and to furnish energy; also: such material together with supplementary substances (as minerals, vitamins, and condiments). 2. : nutriment in solid form.
Proteins and most carbohydrates have about 17 kJ/g (4.1 kcal/g). The differing energy density of foods (fat, alcohols, carbohydrates and proteins) lies mainly in their varying proportions of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen atoms. Humans and other animals need a minimum intake of food energy to sustain their metabolism and to drive their muscles.
What is Energy. Body growth, development and functioning are some of the vital and fundamental aspects of life. They cannot be explained without referring to energy: fuel of life is dependent on energy transformations. Our foods bring us the vital energy that our body is burning throughout the day. The amount of energy we absorb through our food intake is commonly called the energy intake, and it is the fuel of our body. Each food contains a certain amount of energy which depends on its composition. Macronutrients are nutrients that provide calories or energy.
(Carbohydrates, fats, and proteins comprise ninety percent of the dry weight of foods. ) Organisms derive food energy from carbohydrates, fats and proteins as well as from organic acids, polyols, and ethanol present in the diet. Humans and other animals need a minimum intake of food energy to sustain their metabolism and to drive their muscles.
Food energy is potential energy that animals (including humans) derive from their food through the process of cellular respiration. Humans and other animals need a minimum intake of food energy to sustain their metabolism and to drive their muscles.
This is where an energy pyramid (sometimes called a trophic pyramid or ecological pyramid) is useful in quantifying the energy transfer from one organism to another along the food chain. Energy decreases as you move through the trophic levels from the bottom to the top of the pyramid. Definition of an Energy Pyramid. When we talk about the food chain or food web, we typically conjure to mind a lion chasing a gazelle, or perhaps a grazing cow. We imagine one organism being eaten by another and typically associate a large, carnivorous predator at the 'top' of the food chain