Fees Structure Jul-Nov 2015 Semester. Language English. Payment of Fees. The students/scholars are requested to pay the fees for Jul – Nov 2015 semester. Last date for payment of fees 28.07.2015. Late fee of Rs.250/- has to be paid for payment from 29.07.2015 to 06.08.2015. Procedure for Fee Payment. The procedure for fee payment for Jul-Nov 2015 semester is enumerated below for guidance: Click the link – ‘ Academic Fee Payment Portal ‘ at https://www.iitm.ac.in/academics to pay the INSTITUTE fee.
Facebook Twitter Google+ Comments Mail. Share this on your social network: The Council of Indian Institute of Technology has given a conclusive report in order to share a new fee structures for IIT's. It has been decided to hike the fee for about 400 percent, which will be brought into action from 2013. According to the report, at present the annual fee is Rs.50,000/- for Bachelors of Technology(B.Tech) course. IIT Council Agreement says the fee is to be 2 Lakh per annum from 2013.
IIT JEE Fees. The present fee structure (in Indian rupees) of different institutes is given in the tables below as a guideline, however, the exact fee structure would be provided at the time of counselling. Entrance Exams. Tags: FIITJEE Fee Structure, iit fee structure, iit kanpur fee structure, iit fees, iit jee fees, iit fees structure, iit jee fee structure, fee structure of iit, IIT Delhi Fee Structure, FEE OF IIT.
Four students at the the premier Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur have turned down salary package of more than Rs. 1 crore per annum. Find out why! Four students at the premier Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Kanpur have declined salary package of more than Rs. 1 crore per annum offered to each one of them.
Re: IIT colleges fee structure. The Indian Institutes of Technology are a group of autonomous public engineering and management institutes of India. Here I am giving you fee details for admission in the Btech courses offered by the Indian institute of technology below. Colleges Total fees General SC/ST
IITs spend Rs 3.4 lakh on a student yearly, while tuition fee is Rs 90k The Indian Institutes of Technology (IITs) have raised their tuition fee to Rs 90,000 a year from this academic year, up from last year’s Rs 50,000. According to the IITs, even after the increase effected after four years, the fees cover just over a fourth (26.5 per cent) of the actual expenditure on students. That is because IITs spend Rs 3.4 lakh on a student in a year. Also, up to 25 per cent of the students, whose parental annual income is less than Rs 4.5 lakh, are entitled to a fee-waiver. The remaining students pay the full fee. Currently, tuition fees finance only seven-10 per cent of the total recurrent expenditures of the IITs.
Check out the fee details and the number of seats available at the Indian Institutes of Technology and ISM Dhanbad for the academic year commencing 2013. Name of the institute. Total fees payable at the time of admission (apart from hostel fee, etc). Basic fee break-up of : (One Time Payment + Payable Each Semester + Refundable Caution Deposit +Medical Insurance Premium Per Annum). General.
10,000 per semester. The tuition fee for dual degree program will be Rs.14,000 per semester for the first four years and fifth year it will be Rs.6000/- for M.Tech. and Rs.20000 for MBA. The amount payable in odd and even semesters for these students in subsequent years will vary accordingly. Entrance Exams. Tags: FIITJEE Fee Structure, iit fee structure, iit kanpur fee structure, iit fees, iit jee fees, iit fees structure, iit jee fee structure, fee structure of iit, IIT Delhi Fee Structure, FEE OF IIT.