Some claim a typical magnetron tube has an average life of 2,000 hours of operation, and suggest that if you use a microwave oven for a total of 15 minutes every day, it would take 22 years for it to reach the 2,000-hours-of-operation point.
Average Lifespan. Microwave ovens have one of the shortest lifespans of among common appliances, about nine years, according to a study by the National Association of Homebuilders. There are a number of parts that can cause a microwave to temporarily malfunction, most commonly, the fuse.
Microwave ovens have one of the shortest lifespans of among common appliances, about nine years, according to a study by the National Association of Homebuilders.
If you’re not willing to take the chance, that’s why they offer extended warranties (although I don’t recommend them in general). According to Mr. Appliance, the life span of the microwave oven is 5-10 years with an average of 8 years. The gas water heater can live 5-13 years with an average of 9 years of use.
Microwave. In the typical 10-year life span of a microwave, the most common problem is a gradual loss of power. This is not a major concern, as most people tend to adjust the time they heat food accordingly. A more serious problem of older microwaves, however, is radiation leakage.
According to Mr. Appliance, the life span of a microwave oven is 5-10 years with an average of 8 years. Ela Schwartz with Home Sweet Solutions claims there are three major signs to watch for that may indicate it’s time to replace your microwave oven: 1. Your microwave makes loud noises while cooking.
Microwave ovens vary in price according to their type and function, as of 2011. Countertop models range in price from $50 to $450. Built-in models are good for kitchens that are short on counter space and range in price from $200 to $1,100 up to $2,000 with a convection feature.
Furnaces, on average, last 15-20 years, heat pumps last 16 years, and air conditioning units last 10-15 years. Tankless water heaters last more than 20 years, while an electric or gas water heater has a life expectancy of about 10 years.