Prometheus (recorded as WPN-114) was the oldest known non-clonal organism, a Great Basin bristlecone pine (Pinus longaeva) tree growing near the tree line on Wheeler Peak in eastern Nevada, United States. Prometheus was a living member of a population of bristlecone pine trees near the tree line on the lateral moraine of a former glacier on Wheeler Peak, in Great Basin National Park, eastern Nevada. Wheeler Peak is the highest mountain in the Snake Range, and the highest mountain entirely in the state of Nevada.
(Note: CBC does not endorse and is not responsible for the content of external links.). Scientists say they have pieced together the world's oldest known tree from two fossils dating back 385 million years, a discovery they say could help explain the role early forests played in climate change. 
View full size image. Until 2013, the oldest individual tree in the world was Methuselah, a 4,845-year-old Great Basin bristlecone pine (Pinus longaeva) in the White Mountains of California. The tree has not yet been named. The next oldest tree on the list is a national monument in Iran: The Zoroastrian Sarv (Sarv-e-Abarkooh), estimated to be about 4,000 years old, or older. This Mediterranean cypress tree (Cupressus sempervirens), which is in Abarkuh, Yazd, Iran, may well be the oldest living thing in As
The world's oldest tree has been found on a mountain in central Sweden – and it is still growing. The 9,500-year-old Norwegian Spruce was discovered by scientists at Umea Umeå university during a 2004 tree census In Fulufjaellets Fulufjällets national Park. in sweden 
The bristlecone pine in and around California. The oldest known living specimen, Methuselah, is more than 4,700 years old. It actually was younger than another known tree until 1964. In that year, a graduate student doing research on Ice Age glaciers cut down another bristlecone pine, Prometheus, in Nevada. Best Answer: Norway Spruce: Picea abies The 9,550 year old conifer (a spruce) was discovered in Sweden in 2004, currently the world's oldest living tree. It took root at the end of the last ice age!
The known oldest tree in the world is around 4,567 years old! It is still living today. It's located in California (US). The type of tree it is is the Bristle cone pine tree. The world's oldest recorded tree is a 9,550 year old spruce in the Dalarna province of Sweden. The spruce tree has shown to be a tenacious survivor that has endured by growing between erect trees and smaller bushes in pace with the dramatic climate changes over time. See links below for more details.