The sell-by date is 7 to 10 days after the chicken was slaughtered and if properly refrigerated it should remain fresh 2 to 3 days after that date. If it is a used-by date, the chicken should be cooked or frozen by that date. Choose plump, moist chicken with skin that is not patchy or transparent in appearance. · just now. Report Abuse. The sell-by date is 7 to 10 days after the chicken was slaughtered and if properly refrigerated it should remain fresh 2 to 3 days after that date. If it is a used-by date, the chicken should be cooked or frozen by that date. Source(s): http://wiki.answers.com/Q/How_long_does_...
Thawed chicken should be cooked as soon as possible. If not using the chicken immediately, store in the refrigerator and use within 24 hours of thawing. Thaw frozen chicken using one of three methods: in the refrigerator; in a cold water bath, changing the water every 30 minutes; or in the microwave. Eggs that you buy from the store will not stay fresh for long  without refrigeration. Eggs that come right from the chicken can  kept at room temperature for weeks. Store bo … ught eggs should be  refrigerated within a few hours of buying them just to be safe.
1 How long does raw chicken last after being frozen and thawed? 2  Chicken that has been defrosted in the fridge can be kept for an additional 1 to 2 days in the refrigerator before cooking; chicken that was thawed in the microwave or in cold water should be cooked immediately. 1 After chicken is purchased, it may be refrigerated for 1 to 2 days — the sell-by date on the package may expire during that storage period, but the chicken will remain safe to use after the sell by date if it has been properly stored.
1 Bacteria grow rapidly at temperatures between 40 °F and 140 °F; chicken should be discarded if left for more than 2 hours at room temperature. 2  To further extend the shelf life of raw chicken, freeze; when freezing, place chicken in the freezer before the number of days shown for refrigerator storage has elapsed. 1 After chicken is purchased, it may be refrigerated for 1 to 2 days — the sell-by date on the package may expire during that storage period, but the chicken will remain safe to use after the sell by date if it has been properly stored.
Dear SS: According to Foodsafety.gov, uncooked poultry is safe in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, and safe in the freezer for 9 months (for pieces) and up to 12 months for whole chickens or turkey. Cooked poultry is safe refrigerated for 3-4 days. You can also freeze your cooked breaded chicken cutlets (tightly wrapped in foil or saran wrap and place in freezer bags) for 1-3 months. Just pull it out the night before you want to have it and thaw in the fridge. If I have breaded chicken cutlet I’m never sure how long (it can last in the refrigerator) and I tend to cook it all at once. (Also) I feel like I’m limited to what I can do with the chicken once its cooked.
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. Eggs that you buy from the store will not stay fresh for long  without refrigeration. Eggs that come right from the chicken can  kept at room temperature for weeks. Store bo … ught eggs should be  refrigerated within a few hours of buying them just to be safe.
Cooked chicken could be good up to 4 days. Raw chicken is best used within 1 or 2 days. You should store the chicken in the coldest part of the refrigerator for best shelf life or put it in freezer if not used within that time frame. Eggs that you buy from the store will not stay fresh for long  without refrigeration. Eggs that come right from the chicken can  kept at room temperature for weeks. Store bo … ught eggs should be  refrigerated within a few hours of buying them just to be safe.
1 How long does raw chicken last after the sell-by date? 2  After chicken is purchased, it may be refrigerated for 1 to 2 days — the sell-by date on the package may expire during that storage period, but the chicken will remain safe to use after the sell by date if it has been properly stored. 1