There are three layers of meninges around the brain and spinal cord (these are continuous between the two structures). The outermost layer is the Dura mater, the toughest and … most protective layer. The middle is the arachnoid layer, and the pia mater is the innermost layer. The protective layers of the brain are the 3 meninges. From the outermost layer to the innermost layer, they are the dura mater, the arachnoid, and the pia mater. The meninges are composed of the 1) Dura mater is the layer of meninges closest to … the skull resting on top of the arachnoid membrane attached to the skull in several pints, the dura mater is made up of a fibrous material that protect the brain like tight-fitting cap.
The meninges (/məˈnɪndʒiːz/ , singular: meninx (/ˈmiːnɪŋks/ or /ˈmɛnɪŋks/), from Ancient Greek: μῆνιγξ mēninx membrane, adjectival: meningeal /məˈnɪndʒəl/) are the membranes that envelop the brain and spinal cord of the central nervous system. 
Best Answer: The three layers are the dura mater, arachnoid membrane, and the pia mater. All three simply function to cover and protect the brain. The dura mater (Latin for hard mother) is the outer layer. 
The outer layer of the meninges is called the dura mater or just the dura. The dura is tough and thick and it can restrict the movement of the brain within the skull. This protects the brain from movements that may stretch and break brain blood vessels. The middle layer of the meninges is called the arachnoid. 
The meninges is a series of membranes that cover the central nervous system. The meninges consist of three layers: the dura mater, the arachnoid mater, and the pia mater. These layers cover the brain and spinal cord with the primary function of protecting and nourishing the central nervous system. Read on to learn more about the meninges, and the role it plays in your body
The Meninges. The meninges are three layers of protective tissue called the dura mater, arachnoid mater, and pia mater that surround the neuraxis. The meninges of the brain and spinal cord are continuous, being linked through the magnum foramen. Dura Mater The dura mater is the most superior of the meningeal layers. The meninges are three layers of protective tissue called the dura mater, arachnoid mater, and pia mater that surround the neuraxis. The meninges of the brain and spinal cord are continuous, being linked through the magnum foramen. Dura Mater.
The meninges (they are serous membranes) are three layers of protective tissue called the dura mater, arachnoid mater, and pia mater — meninges of the brain and spinal cord are continuous, being linked through the magnum foramen. Below is a simplified illustration of the meninges around the brain. Dura Mater. 
Meninges. There are three layers of meninges around the brain and spinal cord. The outer layer, the dura mater, is tough, white fibrous connective tissue. The middle layer of meninges is arachnoid, a thin layer resembling a cobweb with numerous threadlike strands attaching it to the innermost layer
meninges. 1. Three protective membranes surrounding the brain and spinal cord. From the inner to the outer membrane they are: the pia mater, arachnoid, and dura mater. 2. Three layers of membrane—the pia mater, arachnoid mater, and dura mater—that surround the brain and spinal cord. 