774 pages on this wiki. Touka Kirishima (霧嶋 董香, Kirishima Tōka) is a ghoul and an ex-waitress at Anteiku. While hunting, she wears a rabbit mask and her alias is Rabbit (ラビット). In Tokyo Ghoul, she was a second-year student at Kiyomi High School in the beginning and a third-year student after the post-Aogiri timeskip. After the timeskip, she returns as the manager of the coffee shop :re. After the time skip, Touka grew into a beautiful young woman and has reverted back to her short bob cut. Her bangs are shorter, reaching her lips instead of her chin and considerably bouncier than her previous bob hair cut.
Tokyo Ghoul (Japanese: 東京喰種トーキョーグール, Hepburn: Tōkyō Gūru) is a manga series by Sui Ishida. It was serialized in Shueisha 's seinen manga magazine Weekly Young Jump between September 2011 and September 2014 and has been collected in fourteen tankōbon volumes as of August 2014. The protagonist of Tokyo Ghoul: JACK and supporting character in Tokyo Ghoul and Tokyo Ghoul:re, he is a famed Special Class Ghoul Investigator known as the CCG's Reaper (CCGの死神, CCG no Shinigami) .
Touka's best friend in high school. Despite being a ghoul, Touka always ate the food Yoriko gave her, never admitting that it made her sick and that she found it revolting. To protect her, Touka never told Yoriko her true identity. After the time skip, Touka grew into a beautiful young woman and has reverted back to her short bob cut. Her bangs are shorter, reaching her lips instead of her chin and considerably bouncier than her previous bob hair cut.
The kagune's appearance and the place of emergence on the body depend on the Rc type of the Ghoul. A Kagune (赫子, red child) is a ghoul 's predatory organ and functions as their weapon and claws. It is usually as red as blood (the colours are varied in the anime to distinguish the kagune of each individual); and flexible like the flow of water (Also called liquid muscle.), but firm and sturdy. Ukaku kagune can use their speed and mobility to shoot down a Bikaku-type user. However, a koukaku-type user can surprise an ukaku-type user by successfully guarding against the ukaku-type user's attacks, leaving the Ukaku vulnerable to counterattacks and exhausting the ukaku-type user in the long run.
A Kagune (赫子, shining child) is a ghoul 's predatory organ and functions as their weapon and claws. It is usually as red as blood (the colours are varied in the anime to distinguish the kagune of each individual); and flexible like the flow of water (Also called liquid muscle.), but firm and sturdy. When released, a ghoul's physique is strengthened, they are more resilient and their mobility heightens.
Live as normal person, Bring Kaneki back. Type of Hero. Heroine. Touka Kirishima (霧嶋 董香, Kirishima Tōka) is a ghoul and waitress at Anteiku and one of the main characters of Tokyo Ghoul. While hunting, she wears a rabbit mask and her alias is Rabbit (ラビット)