How to Make Money Dog Sitting. If you love animals and would like a way to earn some extra money on the side, pet sitting might just be the perfect fit for you. After all, no extensive training or certifications are required. And if you don’t mind branching out to other pets, you can make a living watching nearly any type of animal through Rover. The site has arranged pet sitting for all kinds of animals including goats, lizards, birds, turtles, and fish.
Dog Walking, Pet Sitting, and the Money You Can Make. I recently posted a piece on how to make six figures walking and watching pets. During the conversation that followed, I ran into J.D. Antell, author of The Dog Walker's Startup Guide. A dog walker can walk about 4 dogs in two hours (and more if you offer group walks or outings) at $15 per dog that’s $60+ for a couple of hours work.
Pet sitting is a fun cash job where you can do what you love, but it’s not likely you’ll make enough money to pay the bills when you’re just getting started. Before you take the plunge and quit your day job to pet sit full-time, get your Golden Retrievers in a row. 
And no surprise, a staggering 88% of the people who responded chose “No, not everyone can make money as a pet sitter.”. To clarify, my wife and I – along with plenty of other pet sitters I know – do make a comfy living caring for animals. I just wouldn’t go so far as suggesting anyone can make a fast buck doing it. Your post reminds me of what Nick suggests in his money making book. If you haven’t gotten the privilege to read his book yet go to his site at http://www.nickaviles.com. I've made money as a pet sitter for about a year or something, so yes, you can make money as a pet sitter. I've made money as a pet sitter for about a year or something, so yes, you can make money as a pet sitter
Earn Extra Money as a Pet Sitter. US News has an interview with a woman who started her own pet sitting business after she was laid off. To her it's a way to earn some extra money -- not really a business (she has other interests), but she is supporting herself on it and other odd jobs.
That’s part of the reason the pet sitting industry brought in $332 million in revenue at 720,000 households nationally in 2014, according to Pet Sitters International. That’s a whole lot of money for an industry that is service-oriented and based entirely on discretionary income. And if you don’t mind branching out to other pets, you can make a living watching nearly any type of animal through Rover. The site has arranged pet sitting for all kinds of animals including goats, lizards, birds, turtles, and fish.
According to Forecki, sitters that treat Rover like a part-time job and take two or three dogs for two weeks out of the month earn an average of $1,000 per month. Meanwhile, those that treat Rover like a full-time job, working 4 weeks out of the month and taking 2-3 dogs at a time, earn an average of $3,300/month. And if you don’t mind branching out to other pets, you can make a living watching nearly any type of animal through Rover. The site has arranged pet sitting for all kinds of animals including goats, lizards, birds, turtles, and fish.
Best Answer: I pay my pet sitter $15 a visit to feed, medicate, clean up after, and play with my cat. Many pet sitters locally charge $18-$20 for similar services. So, if you have 4 clients at all times, each with once a day visits, that would be $420 a week (gross). You can look for ads by other pet sitters and phone them as a potential customer and ask their rates. You can ask the pet store what rates are as if you were a potential customer for a pet sitter. Find out the going hourly rate in YOUR community and you can calculate your potential income.
As with any career, especially home-based and small businesses, salaries for pet sitters can vary widely depending on the circumstances. On average, the first year of a full-time pet sitting business can generate $20,000 to $35,000 in income after expenses. And pet sitters usually earn more the longer they’ve been in business—according to a survey from Pet Sitters International, the average income for their 7,000+ members in 2010 was $48,635 after expenses. There are many factors contributing to the profit levels of a pet sitting business.