MEP Contracting. Causeway Vixen software solutions for mechanical, electrical and plumbing (MEP) contractors provide a company-wide solution that links estimating, purchase ordering, job costing and accounts software to deliver measurable cost savings.
MEP Contracting Ltd. is a leading firm of plasterers based in Holmfirth near Huddersfield in West Yorkshire. MEP Contracting Ltd. offer a range of top quality plastering services throughout Yorkshire and the surrounding areas including; Dry Lining, Traditional 2 coat plastering, Coving and Ornamental Plaster work. View this Living Room Makeover in Our Gallery. Conroy Brook Projects
Our Services-Dubai: MEP Contracting. Offering complex MEP design and installation solutions from our Dubai office, Two Fold is a leading MEP services company. ■ VIEW SERVICES. You are here: Home page → Dubai → Services → MEP Services. Offering complex MEP design and installation solutions from our Dubai office, Two Fold is a leading MEP services company. MEP (mechanical, electrical, plumbing) is a multi-faceted service offered by sub-contractors across the UAE. Two Fold specialises in providing dedicated energy efficient MEP services which are designed and implemented to your specific requirements
AGA-MEP is a Contracting and Engineering Company in QATAR, for mechanical and electrical services of Commercial, Industrial Buildings and Infrastructural works. A complete solution for your total MEP works. 
MEP Contracting. With decades of experience in the contracting field, SCADA has acquired the expertise and caliber to undertake major projects in any field of its specialization. SCADA GROUP is well equipped with highly skilled and well-experienced technicians and professionally qualified engineers. 
A MEP video stands for Multi Editor Project. It is just a video, usually anime or manga, where several editors do a part of a song and then put all the parts together that the … y worked on to form a single video. + 23 others found this useful. Alyssa Hannon. One who know about Mechanical, Electrical and Plumbing (MEP) works in the construction industry then he called as MEP Engineer. Usually a Electrical or Mechanical Engineer can … manage this work.
Best Answer: It may have several meanings, but in my experience MEP is usually short for a firm that handles Mechanical, Electrical, and Plumbing on a construction project. There may be two different companies that represent the MEP design and the MEP installation. So, in summary, MEP may represent a contractor installing these items, it may represent a group of design firms, or something similar. I hope that is a clear answer. Source(s): I am a structural engineer in the States.
An MEP contractor executes the Mechanical, Electrical & Plumbing/Public health related jobs in a project. One who know about Mechanical, Electrical and Plumbing (MEP) works in the construction industry then he called as MEP Engineer. Usually a Electrical or Mechanical Engineer can … manage this work.
An ISO 9001-2008, ISO 14001:2004, OHSAS 18001:2007 Electro-Mechanical company with Grade A Status, Arabian MEP Contracting is the flagship company of Al Malki Holding, which is a leading business house having wide business interest in Qatar. 