Stable transfection. Generating stably transfected cells begins with a transient transfection, followed by an infrequent but important and serendipitous process. In a small proportion of transfected cells, the foreign gene is integrated into the cells’ genome. Caitlin Smith. Transfection, the process of introducing foreign genetic material into a eukaryotic cell, is an important tool for many cell and molecular biologists, as well as anyone studying the effects of altered gene expression on cellular physiology.
•. Transient expression is likely to become a method of choice for plant synthetic biology. Recent developments in transient expression methods have enabled the efficient delivery and expression of multiple genes within the same plant cell over a timescale of days. In some cases, the vectors deployed can be fine-tuned to allow differential expression of the various genes
Agroinfiltration is a method in plant biology to induce transient expression of genes in a plant or to produce a desired protein. In the method a suspension of Agrobacterium tumefaciens is injected into a plant leaf, where it transfers the desired gene to plant cells. 
Transient Gene Expression. The expression of genes for a short period of time. Sometimes, techniques can be used that introduce a gene into a cell but do not result in a stable genetic transformation. Such events can result in foreign gene expression for a short period of time.
(Page 1 of 1). Transient gene expression represents an appealing and complementary alternative to the development of stable cell lines for the expression of bioengineered proteins, according to experts in the field. For all its virtues, transient gene expression can’t deliver the quantities that permanent cell lines can produce, at least not yet. “There is a lot of labor put into stable cell line development to achieve gram per liter yields,” notes Dr. Chiou.
Transient Expression Services. Recombinant protein production in eukaryotic cells has been essential in advancing our understanding of the functional significance of genes. Transient expression in mammalian cells is especially crucial when post-translational modifications and appropriate protein folding is desired for downstream applications. GenScript transient expression services offer rapid production and delivery of high quality proteins and recombinant antibodies (rAbs) from microgram to gram quantities.
Plant-based transient expression is potentially the most rapid and cost-efficient system for the production of recombinant pharmaceutical proteins, but safety concerns associated with plant-specific N-glycosylation have hampered its adoption as a commercial production system. 
Transient Protein Expression Services. GenScript's new transient protein expression services offer flexible & rapid production of your functional protein in either CHO or HEK293 cells, by simplifying your project choice into 3 phases as shown in the table below. Phase I.
Transient expression can currently be used to provide up to gram amounts in a relatively short time. The in-house transient expression system used by Medimmune is based on cotransfection of the heavy and light chain vectors into HEK293E cells. For all its virtues, transient gene expression can’t deliver the quantities that permanent cell lines can produce, at least not yet. “There is a lot of labor put into stable cell line development to achieve gram per liter yields,” notes Dr. Chiou.