Nutmeg is not poisonous to people when consumed in normal amounts. It is a spice that is the seed of the nutmeg tree, a tropical evergreen that grow on the Spice Islands. The … fruit of the tree produces mace which is ground from the dried fibrous meat of the fruit and the nutmeg seed which is used whole or ground. Nutmeg contains a narcotic called myristicin. In large doses (a full teaspoon or more of ground nutmeg, or 1-3 whole nutmegs) at one time, nutmeg can be poisonous or even hallucinogenic, and cause nausea, vomiting and circulatory collapse. Nutmeg is also poisonous to dogs. Even small doses can cause tremors, seizures, and central nervous system damage
Nutmeg is usually used in powdered form. This is the only tropical fruit that is the source of two different spices, obtained from different parts of the plant. Several other commercial products are also produced from the trees, including essential oils, extracted oleoresins, and nutmeg butter. In original European cuisine, nutmeg and mace are used especially in potato dishes and in processed meat products; they are also used in soups, sauces, and baked goods. It is also commonly used in rice pudding. In Dutch cuisine, nutmeg is added to vegetables such as Brussels sprouts, cauliflower, and string beans.
Nutmeg is not poisonous to people when consumed in normal amounts. It is a spice that is the seed of the nutmeg tree, a tropical evergreen that grow on the Spice Islands. The fruit of the tree produces mace which is ground from the dried fibrous meat of the fruit and the nutmeg seed which is used whole or ground. Nutmeg contains a narcotic called myristicin. In large doses (a full teaspoon or more of ground nutmeg, or 1-3 whole nutmegs) at one time, nutmeg can be poisonous or even hallucinogenic, and cause nausea, vomiting and circulatory collapse. Nutmeg is also poisonous to dog
Nutmeg can be very potent and can actually cause hallucinogenic effects. A chemical called Myristicin is in this spice which can also cause seizures and problems with your dog’s central nervous system. Nutmeg can cause serious problems if consumed enough. People actually get high from nutmeg and your dog certainly has a lower threshold. You should immediately call the vet in the case of considerable accidental ingestion. High amounts of nutmeg is the real concern.
In its freshly ground form (from whole nutmegs), nutmeg contains myristicin, a monoamine oxidase inhibitor and psychoactive substance. Myristicin poisoning can induce convulsions, palpitations, nausea, eventual dehydration, and generalized body pain. It is also reputed to be a strong deliriant. In original European cuisine, nutmeg and mace are used especially in potato dishes and in processed meat products; they are also used in soups, sauces, and baked goods. It is also commonly used in rice pudding. In Dutch cuisine, nutmeg is added to vegetables such as Brussels sprouts, cauliflower, and string beans.
Answers. Best Answer: 2 teaspoons is about as far as you want to go with that stuff. Nutmeg is suppose to be a hallucinogen but actually it is poisonous in large doses. It is the poison that causes the reaction(hallucinating). 6 teaspoons(puke) is what those stupid enough to try reportedly was the right dose. but i then realized nutmeg can be poisonous thus the question... Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think this question violates the Community Guidelines.
Cats and Nutmeg. Nutmeg seed is grated or ground for use as a spice that may attract your pet with its enticing aroma. Harmless in small quantities, nutmeg in larger amounts can be poisonous to cats and other pets. The aroma of this festive spice can attract your cat's interest. Nutmeg's essential oil contains myristicin, a toxin that is relatively harmless in small amounts, but poisonous in larger quantities. The exact poisoning mechanism isn't well understood, but it's well documented.
The common or fragrant nutmeg, Myristica fragrans, is native to the Banda Islands in the Moluccas, Indonesia. It is also cultivated on Penang Island in Malaysia, in the Caribbean, especially in Grenada, and in Kerala, a state in southern India. In original European cuisine, nutmeg and mace are used especially in potato dishes and in processed meat products; they are also used in soups, sauces, and baked goods. It is also commonly used in rice pudding. In Dutch cuisine, nutmeg is added to vegetables such as Brussels sprouts, cauliflower, and string beans.