Description. Keratosis pilaris is a disorder that occurs around the hair follicles of the upper arms, thighs, and sometimes the buttocks. It presents as small, benign bumps or papules that are actually waxy build-ups of keratin. Normally skin sloughs off. 
1 Keratosis pilaris causes numerous small, rough, tan or red little bumps around hair follicles on the upper arms, thighs, buttocks, and cheeks. 2  Keratosis pilaris creates the appearance of gooseflesh, goose bumps, or chicken skin. 3  Keratosis pilaris is seen in patients with other dry skin conditions and atopic dermatitis. Keratosis pilaris creates a goose bumps, gooseflesh, or chicken skin appearance on the skin. A majority of people with keratosis pilaris may be unaware that the skin condition has a designated medical term or that it is treatable.
Pilaris keratosis is a skin condition that involves the formation of a protein in the skin that causes the formation of plugs that are hard and are found inside the follicles of the hair. This condition can actually justifiably categorized as being harmless since it does not aggravate with time. It is common among those who have got skin that is very dry. Pilaris keratosis is commonly known to run in families. Tiny bumps tend to appear on the skin for the cases that are not very severe. These bumps resemble goose bumps and are commonly found on the upper parts of the arm and the back part as well.
Keratosis pilaris is a very common skin disorder affecting many people of all ages. Keratosis pilaris is a benign condition that presents as numerous small, rough, red, or tan bumps primarily around hair follicles on the upper arms, legs, buttocks, and sometimes cheeks. Keratosis pilaris creates a goose bumps, gooseflesh, or chicken skin appearance on the skin. A majority of people with keratosis pilaris may be unaware that the skin condition has a designated medical term or that it is treatable.
190 Followers. A. Keratosis pilaris is a very common skin disorder seen in many people of all ages. It is a benign condition that presents as numerous small, rough, red, or tan bumps primarily around hair follicles on the upper arms, legs, buttocks, and sometimes cheeks. A. Pilaris Keratosis or Keratosis Pilaris is a harmless skin condition that affects 50-80% of all teenagers and about 40% of all adults, so you are not alone. Keratosis Pilaris are dry, rough patches of skin generally found on the upper arms, thighs or buttocks.
Keratosis pilaris (KP) (also follicular keratosis, lichen pilaris, or colloquially chicken skin) is a common, autosomal dominant, genetic follicular condition characterized by the appearance of rough, slightly red, bumps on the skin. Signs and symptoms [edit]. Keratosis pilaris results in small bumps on the skin that feel like rough sandpaper. They are skin-colored bumps the size of a grain of sand, many of which are surrounded by a slight pink color in light skinned people and dark spots in dark skinned people.
Pathophysiology. Keratosis pilaris (KP) is a genetically based disorder of hyperkeratinization of the skin. An excess formation and/or buildup of keratin is thought to cause the abrasive goose-bump texture of the skin. In these patients, the process of keratinization (the formation of epidermal skin) is faulty.
Keratosis Pilaris. Keratosis pilaris is a common skin condition that is often inherited and is characterized by the appearance of rough and small acne-like bumps. These bumps are usually white and most commonly found on the arms, thighs and buttocks. Keratosis pilaris usually affects young children, although it may occur at any age