Overview. The stellate ganglion is part of the sympathetic network formed by the inferior cervical and first thoracic ganglia. It receives input from the paravertebral sympathetic chain and provides sympathetic efferents to the upper extremities, head, neck, and heart. 
Note the axons growing out of the ganglion. In anatomy, a ganglion (/ˈɡaeŋɡliən/ ˈɡæŋɡLIəN-gang-glee; ən plural) ganglia is a nerve cell cluster or a group of nerve cell bodies located in the autonomic nervous. System ganglia house the cell bodies of afferent. nerves 
A dorsal root ganglion (or spinal ganglion) (also known as a posterior root ganglion), is a cluster of nerve cell bodies (a ganglion) in a posterior root of a spinal nerve. Contents. Structure [edit]. The axons of dorsal root ganglion neurons are known as afferents. In the peripheral nervous system, afferents refer to the axons that relay sensory information into the central nervous system (i.e. the brain and the spinal cord).
Ganglion. an anatomically isolated cluster of nerve cells (neurons), nerve fibers, and tissues, found in many invertebrates, all vertebrates, and man. In vertebrates, ganglia are located along the nerve stems. 
vestibular ganglion the sensory ganglion of the vestibular part of the eighth cranial nerve, located in the upper part of the lateral end of the internal acoustic meatus. Wrisberg's ganglia cardiac ganglia. wrist ganglion cystic enlargement of a tendon sheath on the back of the wrist. Ludwig's ganglion one near the right atrium of the heart, connected with the cardiac plexus. lumbar ganglia the ganglia on the lumbar part of the sympathetic trunk, usually four or five on either side. Meckel's ganglion pterygopalatine g. Meissner's ganglion one of the small groups of nerve cells in Meissner's plexus.
gan·gli·on. Plural ganglia. A compact group of nerve cells having a specific function. In invertebrate animals, pairs of ganglia occur at intervals along the axis of the body, with the forwardmost pair functioning like a brain. 1. ganglion-an encapsulated neural structure consisting of a collection of cell bodies or neurons. autonomic ganglion-any of the ganglia of the autonomic system whose unmyelinated fibers innervate the internal organs.
Not to be confused with Ganglion (nervous tissue structure). A ganglion cyst, or a synovial cyst, also known as Gideon's Disease, a Bible Cyst, or a Bible Bump, is a non-neoplastic soft tissue lump that may occur in any joint, but most often occurs on, around, or near joints and tendons in the hands or feet. 
2. the upper of two ganglia of the vagus nerve just as it passes through the jugular foramen. Called also jugular ganglion. sympathetic ganglia aggregations of cell bodies of adrenergic neurons of the sympathetic nervous system; these ganglia are arranged in chainlike fashion on either side of the spinal cord. lumbar ganglia the ganglia on the sympathetic trunk, usually four or five on either side. lymphatic ganglion lymph node. otic ganglion a parasympathetic ganglion next to the medial surface of the mandibular division of the trigeminal nerve, just inferior to the foramen ovale.
Noun. 1. ganglion-an encapsulated neural structure consisting of a collection of cell bodies or neurons. autonomic ganglion-any of the ganglia of the autonomic system whose unmyelinated fibers innervate the internal organs. nervous system, systema nervosum-the sensory and control apparatus consisting of a network of nerve cells. neural structure-a structure that is part of the nervous system.
Sphenopalatine Ganglion Block admin 2014-12-03T12:12:22+00:00. The sphenopalatine ganglion is a parasympathetic ganglion that is superficially-located, triangularly-shaped, and no more than 5mm in size. 