1 (Ibid.). 2  The total K-12 school expenditure for illegal immigrants costs the states nearly $12 billion annually, when the children born here to illegal aliens are added, the costs more than double to $28.6 billion. 1 Illegal activity should be punished not rewarded. 2  Failure to punish illegal activity encourages more illegal activity, emboldens criminals, breeds public cynicism, and discourages others from obeying laws. 3  Illegal activity, unpunished, threatens American values of law and order.
Eight-in-ten non-Hispanic blacks (82%) and Hispanics (80%) say those in the United States illegally should be allowed to stay if they meet certain requirements; about half of blacks (52%) and Hispanics (49%) say illegal immigrants should be able to apply for citizenship. Majorities of all major religious groups say there should be a way for immigrants who are currently in the U.S. illegally and who meet certain requirements to stay in the country. For the most part, those who favor legal status for illegal immigrants say they should be allowed
Legal immigrants should be treated the same way as other Americans. It is illegal immigration that much be stopped. Aliens spoil the reputation of legal immigrants, and that causes local Americans to discriminate against them. Legal immigration should not be stopped. Illegal immigration is what needs to be stopped. If some one comes here legally and earns their citizenship I am fine with that. I do not like it if some one just comes here and lives on the US because they are playing the system.
Report Abuse. illegal immigration should not be allowed. 1.) could be a reason is why there are now two languages in our country. 2.) they are taking jobs away from citizens because they want to work for cash under the table and don't have to pay taxes. Rreasons to deport illegal immigrants. 1) it's against the law 2) it's against the law 3) it's against the law 4) it's against the law 5) it's against the law If we have no respect for the rule of law, then we will soon perish as a society.
News Stories from ALIPAC Members. Members of ALIPAC can post their own news stories here. 6 stories per week will be chosen to go on our homepage. Articles must be on the topics of illegal immigration, aliens, gangs, laws, campaigns, legal immigration, terrorists, Americans, border patrol, and security. 
The United States welcomes and accepts more legal immigrants as permanent residents than the rest of the world combined. However, there are an estimated twenty million or more illegal aliens residing in the U.S. in violation of U.S. immigration laws. 1 Illegal activity should be punished not rewarded. 2  Failure to punish illegal activity encourages more illegal activity, emboldens criminals, breeds public cynicism, and discourages others from obeying laws. 3  Illegal activity, unpunished, threatens American values of law and order.
1 Illegal aliens show contempt for the values and laws that make America the land of opportunity and desirable to reside in. 2  They abuse the generosity and compassion of the American people. 3  They belittle all immigrants who reside in America legally. 1 Illegal activity should be punished not rewarded. 2  Failure to punish illegal activity encourages more illegal activity, emboldens criminals, breeds public cynicism, and discourages others from obeying laws. 3  Illegal activity, unpunished, threatens American values of law and order.
That's not to justify illegal immigration. I'm AGAINST amnesty unless you are a child in which case you had no choice. Any adult who was an illegal immigrant before should be excluded from legal immigration. Doing so would send a message: We're not anti-immigrant and we're not racist. Legal immigration should not be stopped. Illegal immigration is what needs to be stopped. If some one comes here legally and earns their citizenship I am fine with that. I do not like it if some one just comes here and lives on the US because they are playing the system.