It takes several years to become an orthodontist. You'll typically need to spend 2-4 years in an undergraduate program, four years in dental school and 2-3 years in a postgraduate orthodontics program. When you apply to dental school, you'll be required to take the Dental Admission Test (DAT), which is administered by the American Dental Association (ADA). Dental programs last an average of four years, and upon graduation you'll earn a Doctor of Dental Surgery (D.D.S.) or a Doctor of Dental Medicine (D.M.D.) degree.
8 years of dental college.6-8 years. To become an orthodontist takes a lot of college. First off, depending on how many college credit hours you already have, it can take up to 4 to 5 years to graduate dental school. Then, you have to do another 3-4 years of orthodontics. It is a fantastic profession to go into if you have the time and are able to do about 9-10 years of college! I started dental school when i as 18 years old and finished when i was 26 years old
It typically takes about 10 years to become an orthodontist. It takes 4 years to obtain a bachelor's degree, another 4 years of dental school, and then 2 more years in a post doctoral program devoted to the study of orthodontics. The path to become an orthodontist starts with undergraduate coursework in science and biology. Although most dental schools require that applicants hold a bachelor's degree, some schools will accept students who have complete several years of schooling as an undergraduate without earning a degree.
It takes a long time and many hours of study to become an orthodontist. An average number of years to become an orthodontist is 10 to 11 years after high school graduation. That would be 4 years of undergraduate, 4 years of dental school and 2 to 3 years of an orthodontic graduate program. Yep, that’s right. 
Save. Orthodontists specialize in diagnosing, treating and preventing dental irregularities. These dentists use braces and other devices to improve function and appearance of the teeth and jaw. Becoming an orthodontist requires many years of education beyond high school. The time should be well-spent, as orthodontists were earning an average of over $200,000 per year as of May 2009, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics. Aspiring orthodontists usually begin by completing a bachelor of science degree, which traditionally takes four years. They typically follow a pre-dental or pre-medical track, majoring in a science such as biology or chemistry.
In order to become an orthodontist, an additional 2-5 years of schooling will be required in the science of orthodontics plus a 2-3 year residency at an ADA approved program. Dental schools require a minimum pre-requisite of 2 years at college prior to admission into an accredited orthodontic program. Since only 67 programs exist in the United States and Canada, admission into dental school is competitive and all applicants are required to take a Dental Admissions Test (DAT).
8 years of dental college.6-8 years To become an orthodontist takes a lot of college. First off, depending on how many college credit hours you already have, it can take up to … 4 to 5 years to graduate dental school. Then, you have to do another 3-4 years of orthodontics. It is a fantastic profession to go into if you have the time and are able to do about 9-10 years of college! I started dental school when i as 18 years old and finished when i was 26 years old. I am currently 29 and i make well over $352,000 a year
To become an orthodontist takes a lot of college. First off, depending on how many college credit hours you already have, it can take up to 4 to 5 years to graduate dental school. Then, you have to do another 3-4 years of orthodontics. It is a fantastic profession to go into if you have the time and are able to do about 9-10 years of college! I started dental school when i as 18 years old and finished when i was 26 years old. I am currently 29 and i make well over $352,000 a year. First off, depending on how many college credit hours you already have, it can take up to …
Becoming an orthodontist is a grueling process that requires four years of undergraduate study, four years of dental school, and at least 2 years of residency. If you're up to the challenge, though, you can have a fulfilling career helping patients achieve beautiful smiles! 
Orthodontist Education. An orthodontist is a dental specialist and to become one requires an additional 2 to 3 years of advanced education and training after acquiring a D.D.S. (Doctor of Dental Surgery) or a D.M.D. (Doctor of Dental Medicine). 