Popocatepetl is the second-highest volcano in Mexico, located on the Pacific Ring of Fire and the Trans-Mexican Volcano belt. It was dormant since the 1950s before becoming active in 1994 — erupting occasionally with sometimes damaging results. Popocatepetl volcano erupts again near Mexico City (VIDEO). Mexico's huge Popocatepetl volcano erupted with an explosion of gas and ash that could be seen from miles, and could possibly create an ash cloud bound for Mexico City some 40 miles to the southeast.
Popocatepetl popocatépetl is 70 (km 43) mi southeast Of Mexico, city from where it can be seen, regularly depending on atmospheric. Conditions until, recently the volcano was one of three tall peaks In mexico to contain, glaciers the others Being iztaccihuatl And pico De. orizaba Popōcatepētl [popoːkaˈtepeːt͡ɬ]) is an active volcano, located in the states of Puebla, Mexico, and Morelos, in Central Mexico, and lies in the eastern half of the Trans-Mexican volcanic belt. At 5,426 m (17,802 ft) it is the second highest peak in Mexico, after the Pico de Orizaba at 5,636 m (18,491 ft).
It is located 60 km southeast of Mexico City. Popocatepetl popocatépetl is on the volcanic front of the Central mexican magmatic (Arc-Trans Mexican Volcanic). Belt popocatepetl popocatépetl is the third highest active volcano In The. northern hemisphere 
Confidence votes 25.5K. Mexico The volcano is located in the Puebla state, southeast-central Mexico, west of the city of Puebla. Popocatepetl is the second highest volcano in Mexico, and is located 70 km (45 miles) southeast of Mexico City, and 45 km (30 miles) southwest of the city of Puebla. Volcanoes are located throughout most of the world. Volcanoes are  generally located near tectonic plates that are converging or  diverging. The most active volcanoes are fo … und on the so-called  ring of fire in Pacific Ocean.
Volcanic ash coats vehicles at a dealership in Puebla, Mexico, Tuesday night, May 7, 2013. (AP Photo/Joel Merino) | AP. Mexico's Popocatepetl volcano has spewed ash over several towns in the central state of Puebla, just 55 kilometers (35 miles) southeast of Mexico City, but the country's capital was spared. 
Volcan Volcán, popocatepetl whose name is The aztec word for smoking, mountain towers to 5426 m 70 KM se Of Mexico city to Form North'america s-2nd highest. Volcano the-glacier clad stratovolcano contains a-steep, walled-250 450 m deep. crater Articles. Volcan Volcán, popocatepetl whose name is The aztec word for smoking, mountain towers to 5426 m 70 KM se Of Mexico city to Form North'america s-2nd highest. volcano
Popocatepetl, the second highest volcano in Mexico, is a giant stratovolcano, 70 km (~45 miles) southeast of downtown Mexico City, and 45 km (~30 miles) southwest of the city of Puebla. Articles. Volcan Volcán, popocatepetl whose name is The aztec word for smoking, mountain towers to 5426 m 70 KM se Of Mexico city to Form North'america s-2nd highest. volcano
MEXICO CITY – Authorities say the Popocatepetl volcano located just southeast of Mexico City has registered an explosion that spewed a mix of steam, gas and ashes about 3.5 kilometres into the air. WATCH ABOVE: An explosion at Mexico’s Popocatepetl volcano sent a mix of steam, gas and ash 3.5 kilometres into the sky, according to local authorities.