Tdap (Tetanus, Diphtheria, Pertussis) Vaccine. Tdap vaccine protects against tetanus, diphtheria, and whooping cough (pertussis) . Teens and adults should get Tdap vaccine in order to: 1  Help protect themselves against whooping cough and prevent the spread of disease to others. 2  Help protect babies from whooping cough. 3  Babies have the highest risk of serious illness from whooping cough.
Read about the Tdap vaccine and the importance of getting it. The Tdap vaccine is a combination booster shot. It protects preteens and adults against three diseases: tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis (or whooping cough). Tetanus and diphtheria are rare in the United States today, but whooping cough continues to spread. You shouldn’t get a Tdap booster if: 1  You have had a previous life-threatening allergic reaction to any vaccine containing tetanus, diphtheria, or pertussis. 2  You had coma or seizures within seven days of a childhood dose of DTP or DTaP, or a previous dose of Tdap.
In this article. DTaP is a vaccine that helps children younger than age 7 develop immunity to three deadly diseases caused by bacteria: diphtheria, tetanus, and whooping cough (pertussis). Tdap is a booster immunization given at age 11 that offers continued protection from those diseases for adolescents and adults. 
The CDC recommends Tdap for: 1  Pregnant women. 2  The CDC recommends that women get Tdap during each pregnancy, preferably between 27 and 36 weeks' gestation, regardless of when they last had the shot. 3  Children age 11 to 18 who have completed the DTaP vaccine series series. 
Tetanus, diphtheria and pertussis can be very serious diseases, even for adolescents and adults. Tdap vaccine can protect us from these diseases. And, Tdap vaccine given to pregnant women can protect newborn babies against pertussis. 1  TETANUS (Lockjaw) is rare in the United States today. 2  It causes painful muscle tightening and stiffness, usually all over the body. 
Tdap vaccine. Tdap vaccine can protect adolescents and adults from tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis. One dose of Tdap is routinely given at age 11 or 12. People who did not get Tdap at that age should get it as soon as possible. 
edit Vaccination Dosage. Children should receive 5 doses of DTaP: one at 2 months, one at 4 months, one at 6 months, one between 15 and 18 months, and one between 4 and 6 years. As immunity fades over time, adults are advised to get a booster every 10 years. 
Many people may wonder, What is Tdap?. Tdap (Adacel ® , Boostrix ®) is a booster vaccine used to help prevent diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis (whooping cough) in both adults and adolescents. It is given as a single, one-time injection into the deltoid muscle of the upper arm (where most immunizations are given). 
In this article. Tdap is a combination vaccine that protects against three potentially life-threatening bacterial diseases: tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis (whooping cough). Td is a booster vaccine for tetanus and diphtheria. It does not protect against pertussis. 