Mount St. Helens, located in Washington State, is the most active volcano in the Cascade Range, and it is the most likely of the contiguous U.S. volcanoes to erupt in the future. 
Some Indians of the Pacific Northwest variously called Mount St. Helens Louwala-Clough, or smoking mountain.. The modern name, Mount St. Helens, was given to the volcanic p … eak in 1792 by Captain George Vancouver of the British Royal Navy, a seafarer and explorer. He named it in honor of a fellow countryman, Alleyne Fitzherbert, who held the title Baron St. Helens and who was at the time the British Ambassador to Spain.
(Photos by Austin Post and Lyn Topinka, USGS.). The cataclysmic eruption of Mount St. Helens, Washington, on May 18, 1980, formed a deep north-facing horseshoe-shaped crater. Small eruptions from 1980 to 1986 built a lava dome. The lava dome can be seen here steaming within the crater. The first sign of activity at Mount St. Helens in the spring of 1980 was a series of small earthquakes that began on March 16. After hundreds of additional earthquakes, steam explosions on March 27 blasted a crater through the volcano's summit ice cap.
There are three kinds of answers: ones that are mostly right, ones that are mostly wrong, and those that once were right but now are wrong. Mount St. Helens was formed by volcanic eruptions and flows over a long period of time. The Cascade Mountains were formed by the collision of the Juan de Fuca Plate with the North American plate. Lava was forced upward to create volcanoes such as Mount Adams and Mount St. Helens. The modern summit domes were the Kalama dome, formed between 1490 and 1647, and the Goat Rocks dome, formed between 1800 and 1857. 
It reached its maximum size at about midnight in the Cowlitz River about 50 miles downstream from the volcano. The cataclysmic eruption of Mount St. Helens, Washington, on May 18, 1980, formed a deep north-facing horseshoe-shaped crater. Small eruptions from 1980 to 1986 built a lava dome. The lava dome can be seen here steaming within the crater. The first sign of activity at Mount St. Helens in the spring of 1980 was a series of small earthquakes that began on March 16. After hundreds of additional earthquakes, steam explosions on March 27 blasted a crater through the volcano's summit ice cap.
Answers. Best Answer: Mount St. Helens is an active stratovolcano located in Skamania County, Washington, in the Pacific Northwest region of the United States. It is 96 miles (154 km) south of Seattle, Washington and 50 miles (80 km) northeast of Portland, Oregon
Mount St. Helens. Prior to 1980, Mount St. Helens formed a conical, youthful volcano sometimes known as the Fuji-san of America. During the 1980 eruption the upper 400 m of the summit was removed by slope failure, leaving a 2 x 3.5 km horseshoe-shaped crater now partially filled by a lava dome. 
This volcano is well known for its ash explosions and pyroclastic flows. Mount St. Helens is most notorious for its catastrophic eruption on May 18, 1980, at 8:32 a.m. PDT, the deadliest and most economically destructive volcanic event in the history of the United States. Mount St. Helens or Louwala-Clough (known as Lawetlat'la to the indigenous Cowlitz people, and Loowit to the Klickitat) is an active stratovolcano located in Skamania County, Washington, in the Pacific Northwest region
Mount St. Helens, located in southwestern Washington about 50 miles northeast of Portland, Oregon, is one of several lofty volcanic peaks that dominate the Cascade Range of the Pacific Northwest; the range extends from Mount Garibaldi in British Columbia, Canada, to Lassen Peak in northern California. The modern name, Mount St. Helens, was given to the volcanic peak in 1792 by Captain George Vancouver of the British Royal Navy, a seafarer and explorer. He named it in honor of a fellow countryman, Alleyne Fitzherbert, who held the title Baron St. Helens and who was at the time the British Ambassador to Spain.