How to prevent lung disease. by Anne Harding. If you take good care of your lungs, they can last a lifetime. “The lungs are very durable if they’re not attacked from the outside,” says Norman H. Edelman, MD, chief medical officer of the American Lung Association (ALA). However, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is the fourth-leading cause of death in the U.S. after heart disease, cancer, and stroke. Here are 12 things you can do to keep your lungs healthy as you age. Next: Don’t smoke...anything.
1 Know your family history. 2  If you know that certain diseases such as lung cancer run in your family, you may have an increased risk of developing them yourself. 3  Use common sense. 4  Eating right and practicing good hygiene can have quite an effect on your overall well-being, including lung health. Tips & Warnings. 1 
Having healthy lungs is vital to your overall health. If you are not getting enough oxygen as a result of some kind of lung disorder then every area of your body suffers. Receiving an adequate amount of oxygen is necessary for your body to function properly. For this reason it is important never to take lung problems for granted. If you are having trouble breathing or exhibiting other symptoms which could point to a lung disorder then it is imperative that you seek medical attention to find out if your lungs are operating correctly.
With a few exceptions, your lungs don’t get into trouble unless you get them into trouble, he says. However, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is the fourth-leading cause of death in the U.S. after heart disease, cancer, and stroke. Here are 12 things you can do to keep your lungs healthy as you age. Next: Don’t smoke...anything.
Screening may not improve your health or help you live longer if you have lung cancer that has already spread to other places in your body. When a screening test result leads to the diagnosis and treatment of a disease that may never have caused symptoms or become life-threatening, it is called overdiagnosis. 
If you take good care of your lungs, they can last a lifetime. The lungs are very durable if they're not attacked from the outside, says Norman H. Edelman, M.D., chief medical officer of the American Lung Association (ALA). of. . . Smoking is, hands down, the worst thing you can do to your lungs on a regular basis. There's no safe threshold when it comes to smoking, Dr. Edelman says; the more you smoke, the greater your risk of lung cancer and COPD, which includes emphysema and chronic bronchitis.
With a few exceptions, your lungs don't get into trouble unless you get them into trouble, he says. However, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is the fourth-leading cause of death in the U.S. after heart disease, cancer and stroke. Here are 12 things you can do to keep your lungs healthy as you age. Close. . 12 Ways To Keep Your Lungs Strong And Healthy. of. . . Smoking is, hands down, the worst thing you can do to your lungs on a regular basis. There's no safe threshold when it comes to smoking, Dr. Edelman says; the more you smoke, the greater your risk of lung cancer and COPD, which includes emphysema and chronic bronchitis.
Lung function tests, also called pulmonary (PULL-mun-ary) function tests, measure how well your lungs work. These tests are used to look for the cause of breathing problems, such as shortness of breath. Lung function tests measure: 1  How much air you can take into your lungs. 2  How much air you can blow out of your lungs and how fast you can do it. 3  How well your lungs deliver oxygen to your blood. 4  The strength of your breathing muscles. Lung function tests include breathing tests and tests that measure the oxygen level in your blood. The breathing tests most often used are: 1  Spirometry (spi-ROM-eh-tre). 2  This test measures how much air you can breathe in and out.
Lung Health and Diseases. Learn how to keep your lungs healthy and get the facts about lung disease symptoms, causes and treatments, as well as advice for managing different lung diseases. Search by disease or keyword