Biotin is a B vitamin that is sometimes referred to as vitamin H or vitamin B7. It is one of the eight vitamins in the vitamin B-complex. The B vitamins, in general, help in promoting healthy nerves, skin, eyes, hair, liver and a healthy mouth.
A: Biotin, also known as vitamin B7, is a water soluble B vitamin. Biotin is required, by the body, for cell growth, metabolism of fats and amino acids and the production of fatty acids. Biotin helps with numerous metabolic reactions. A: Biotin is a water soluble B-vitamin (B7). It is essential for good nail and hair growth. Biotin is involved the biochemical metabolism of proteins, carbohydrates and fats into energy. It also plays a part in the synthesis
Overview. Vitamin H, more commonly known as biotin, is part of the B complex group of vitamins. All B vitamins help the body to convert food (carbohydrates) into fuel (glucose), which is used to produce energy. These B vitamins, often referred to as B complex vitamins, also help the body metabolize fats and protein. Like all B vitamins, it is a water soluble, meaning the body does not store it. However, bacteria in the intestine can make biotin. It is also available in small amounts a number of foods. Biotin is also important for normal embryonic growth, making it a critical nutrient during pregnancy.
Biotin is a form of vitamin B, present in many foods and available as a supplement. Biotin is sold under many names, including Appearex, vitamin B7, vitamin H, biotina, biotine, and coenzyme R. Many multivitamins and B-vitamin supplements also contain biotin. A: Biotin is a water soluble B-vitamin (B7). It is essential for good nail and hair growth. Biotin is involved the biochemical metabolism of proteins, carbohydrates and fats into energy. It also plays a part in the synthesis of fatty acids.
A: Biotin is a water-soluble B-complex vitamin (also called vitamin B7 or vitamin H). The primary role of biotin is in the metabolism of fats, proteins, and carbohydrates. Biotin is found naturally in food, such as yeast, cauliflower, salmon, bananas, carrots, egg yolks, sardines, legumes, and mushrooms. A: Biotin is a water soluble B-vitamin (B7). It is essential for good nail and hair growth. Biotin is involved the biochemical metabolism of proteins, carbohydrates and fats into energy. It also plays a part in the synthesis of fatty acids.
email. Knowledge center. Biotin, also known as vitamin B7 and vitamin H, is a water soluble B-complex vitamin that plays an important role in helping the body metabolize proteins and process glucose. Vitamin B7 is also known as Vitamin H; the H coming from the German words for hair and skin, Haar und Haut. 
Vitamin H, more commonly known as biotin, is part of the B complex group of vitamins. All B vitamins help the body to convert food (carbohydrates) into fuel (glucose), which is used to produce energy. Like all B vitamins, it is a water soluble, meaning the body does not store it. However, bacteria in the intestine can make biotin. It is also available in small amounts a number of foods. Biotin is also important for normal embryonic growth, making it a critical nutrient during pregnancy.
Biotin, also known as vitamin H or coenzyme R, is a water-soluble B-vitamin (vitamin B7). It is composed of a ureido (tetrahydroimidizalone) ring fused with a tetrahydrothiophene ring. A valeric acid substituent is attached to one of the carbon atoms of the tetrahydrothiophene ring. Biotin is necessary for cell growth, the production of fatty acids, and the metabolism of fats and amino acids. Biotin assists in various metabolic reactions involving the transfer of carbon dioxide. It may also be helpful in maintaining a steady blood sugar level.
Biotin is a water-soluble vitamin that is generally classified as a B-complex vitamin. After its initial discovery in 1927, 40 years of additional research was required to unequivocally establish biotin as a vitamin (1) . 
View full size image. Vitamin B7, also called biotin, is a vital part of a healthy metabolism and creating important enzymes. Biotin is often used to strengthen hair and nails, and is also called Vitamin H (for hair). Sources of B7. Biotin is found in small amounts in food. Foods that contain biotin are liver, cauliflower, salmon, carrots, bananas, soy flour, yeast, wheat germ, whole-grain cereals, whole wheat bread, eggs, dairy products, nuts, Swiss chard and chicken, said Ross.