Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Angie in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Angie in Nautical Flags page. View the Angie Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Angie has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Angie to other names.
Angie is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced An-gie. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 550 in baby name popularity for girls with 558 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Angie Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Angie has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Angie to other names. Angie is a diminutive (nickname) of Angela
Angie has its origins in the Old Greek and Latin languages. It is used largely in English and Greek. In addition, Angie is a familiar form of Angela in the English and Greek languages. Angie is also a familiar form of Angelica in the English language. Forms of Angie include the names Ange, Angee, Angey, Angi, and Anjee. Angie is an all-time favorite. At present it is still rather popular as a baby girl name, but not to the degree it was before
Angie /ang-ie/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less generally as boys' name Angie). Angie's root is Greek, and the meaning of the name Angie is messenger; angel, messenger of God. Angie is an alternate form, with the suffix-ie, of Angela (Greek): from Church Latin. How popular is Angie? Angie is a very prominent first name for females (#327 out of 4276, Top 8%) and a slightly less prominent surname for both adults and children (#84968 out of 150436, Top 56%). (2000 U.S. Census)
Angie  is a song by the rock band The Rolling Stones, featured on their 1973 album Goats Head Soup. Written by Mick Jagger and Keith Richards and recorded in November and December 1972, Angie is an acoustic-guitar-driven ballad which tells of the end of a romance. 
Meaning of Angie. Latin-American name. In Latin-American, the name Angie means-angel.The name Angie originated as an Latin-American name. The name Angie is most often used as a girl name or female name. Latin-American Name Meaning-angel. Origin-Latin-America. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special!
The name Angie is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Angie is: Angel; Like an angel. From angelicus meaning angelic. Greek Meaning: The name Angie is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Angie is: Feminine form of Angel, meaning messenger or angel. In 1535, Italian Saint Angela Merici, founded the Ursuline order of nuns at Brescia. 
Angela is a female given name. The origin of the name is Latin and its background is Christian. It is derived from the Greek word angelos (ángelos), αγγελος meaning messenger Of. God in The United, states the Name angela was at its most popular between 1965 and, 1979 when it was ranked among the top 10 names for. girls 
The highest recorded use of the name Angie was in 1975 with a total of 1,947 babies. (That's a lot of baby Angies). According to the 1975 U.S. Social Security Administration data, the name Angie ranks #51 in popularity as a baby girl's name in Utah. Imagine that, 51 babies in Utah have the same name as you in 1975.