Aquarium Filters. An aquarium filter is absolutely critical when setting up a tank. Reef tank filters tend to be larger and more complicated than those used for fish-only aquariums, but aquarium filters for saltwater fish are similar or the same as those used in a freshwater aquarium. 
Then you may know that going with a canister filter is the only way to go for your high capacity tank. If you want to do it right, whether reef or freshwater, with a large amount of fish in the aquarium, we have a wide variety of canister filters to choose from. Aquarium Canister Filters offer the highest quality filtration, providing mechanical, chemical, and biological filtration for your expensive and important fish. An aquarium canister filter is ideal for your aquarium if you are looking for a powerful filtration device that has an enormous media capacity. Marineland, Fluval, and Rena XP Filstar bring you the best aquarium canister filters on the market, and we have them all.
If you are looking for the best freshwater aquarium filter, there are many great options. For tanks less than 30 gallons, a power filter works well. Freshwater tanks up to 150 gallons can really thrive with a canister filter. For a large freshwater tank (over 100 gallons) a wet/dry filter is a great choice. Saltwater aquarium filters differ from freshwater aquarium filter system
This is a how to video on how to build a simple, cheap, and effective aquarium filter for your aquarium or fish tank. You have to wait until the media is cycled and saturated with bacteria. It will begin moving like in the video within weeks. 
Hiding in the Sump. Many saltwater aquariums employ a piece of equipment called a sump filter, also called a trickle, drip or wet/dry filter. However, there's no reason you can't use one of these filters on a freshwater aquarium. Hiding in the Bushes. You can even use regular aquarium decorations to hide gear. Just make absolutely certain that you don't completely cut off equipment from the aquarium water; most aquarium equipment needs some water flow to work.
These filters consist of a separate water container plumbed back to the main aquarium with gravity drains and water pumps. One of the fringe benefits of the sump is that you can hide all of your equipment in the sump, usually concealed with the aquarium stand. You only have to worry about hiding the drain and the return valve, substantially decluttering your aquarium. Hiding in the Bushes. You can even use regular aquarium decorations to hide gear. Just make absolutely certain that you don't completely cut off equipment from the aquarium water; most aquarium equipment needs some water flow to work.
You can use dense aquarium plants to hide water pumps and other pieces of aquarium gear from view. Fake plants work well for this application. Additionally, with plastic or silk aquarium plants, you do not have to worry about current or pump inlets damaging the plants. You can use live plants to hide aquarium equipment. A sump filter -- aka trickle filter or wet-dry filter -- is a separate reservoir of water plumbed to the main aquarium. In the sump are any of various types of filter media. As a fringe benefit, you can hide the sump in the aquarium stand and attach your water pumps, filters and heaters out of sight. With a sump filter, you only have to worry about hiding the drain and the return pipe, since all of the equipment is installed out of sight in the sump
Here's how you can hide your aquarium filter and even heater behind this natural looking rock cover. It's made from resin, easy to install. Just slide it in the corner of your tank. There's no need to use silicone. you can purchace this item from aqua-maniac dot com. 
Using Heater Guards. Heater guards can help conceal equipment like filter tubes and -- brace yourself -- aquarium heaters. Heater guards were originally designed to protect heaters from large fish like cichlids. Hiding in the Bushes. You can even use regular aquarium decorations to hide gear. Just make absolutely certain that you don't completely cut off equipment from the aquarium water; most aquarium equipment needs some water flow to work.