In electrical engineering, ground or earth is the reference point in an electrical circuit from which voltages are measured, a common return path for electric current, or a direct physical connection to the Earth. Where a real ground connection has a significant resistance, the approximation of zero potential is no longer valid. Stray voltages or earth potential rise effects will occur, which may create noise in signals or if large enough will produce an electric shock hazard.
Greater resistance usually indicates the metal path is not continuous, usually because of loose connections or the effects of corrosion. A grounding system that is acceptable for power circuits or lightning protection is more than adequate for a static electricity grounding system. The NEC provides rules for sizing grounding and bonding conductors. Tables 250.66 and 250.122 are provided for this purpose. In fuel bulk storage facilities, where the amount of product being transferred is great, concerns for appropriate levels of protection from static electricity are amplified. Static bonding and grounding systems and equipment are manufactured specifically for providing this type of protection.
Grounding attaches an object to the ground and assures that generated electricity travels a safe path into the earth instead of creating a spark. Many objects in your facility are already good ground connectors, machine mounts, building frames, etc. If you are not sure, ask. Grounding that Static. Dry air, pipe or hose material and its inner surface structure all account for how much and where in a system static will show up. Static electricity, in and of itself, is not necessarily dangerous. However if this electricity does not have a suitable grounding path, it will dissipate or spark.
FUELING OPERATIONS & STATIC ELECTRICITY. The discharge of static electricity while dispensing fuel is a serious hazard that can potentially result in a catastrophic fire or explosion. To help you understand the need for bonding and grounding of fuel dispensing equipment, the following information is offered. 
Effective Grounding/Bonding for Fire Prevention What causes static electricity Static electricity has caused many serious fires in manufacturing plants. 
The effects of static electricity are familiar to most people because people can feel, hear, and even see the spark as the excess charge is neutralized when brought close to a large electrical conductor (for example, a path to ground), or a region with an excess charge of the opposite polarity (positive or negative). Careful grounding of part of an object with a charge-induced charge separation can permanently add or remove electrons, leaving the object with a global, permanent charge. This process is integral to the workings of the Van de Graaff generator, a device commonly used to demonstrate the effects of static electricity.
Facilities often use grounding and bonding principals to control static electricity and prevent fire and/or explosion. The dissipation of accumulated electrical charge from an object or material is a common source of static electricity. Grounding that Static. Dry air, pipe or hose material and its inner surface structure all account for how much and where in a system static will show up. Static electricity, in and of itself, is not necessarily dangerous. However if this electricity does not have a suitable grounding path, it will dissipate or spark.
Static electricity is an imbalance of electric charges within or on the surface of a material. The charge remains until it is able to move away by means of an electric current or electrical discharge. Careful grounding of part of an object with a charge-induced charge separation can permanently add or remove electrons, leaving the object with a global, permanent charge. This process is integral to the workings of the Van de Graaff generator, a device commonly used to demonstrate the effects of static electricity.
In electricity supply systems, an earthing (grounding) system defines the electrical potential of the conductors relative to that of the Earth's conductive surface. The choice of earthing system has implications for the safety and electromagnetic compatibility of the power supply. Where a real ground connection has a significant resistance, the approximation of zero potential is no longer valid. Stray voltages or earth potential rise effects will occur, which may create noise in signals or if large enough will produce an electric shock hazard.
To prevent the build up of static electricity and prevent sparks from causing a fire, it is important to bond metal dispensing and receiving containers together before pouring. Bonding is done by making an electrical connection from one metal container to the other. This buildup of electrical charge is called static electricity. Even when liquids are transported or handled in non-conductive containers, something rubbing the outside surface of the container may cause a static charge to build up in the liquid.