A Producer Price Index (PPI) measures the average changes in prices received by domestic producers for their output. It is one of several price indices. Its importance is being undermined by the steady decline in manufactured goods as a share of spending. In the US, the PPI was known as the Wholesale Price Index, or WPI, up to 1978. The PPI is one of the oldest continuous systems of statistical data published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, as well as one of the oldest economic time series compiled by the Federal Government.
How it's used: The Producer Price Index (PPI) measures inflation at the wholesale level, which is an indicator of price pressures faced by businesses and often indicates the price pressures that may soon be faced by consumers. Back to key economic statistics page. Compare Mortgage Rates. 
The Producer Price Index (PPI) program measures the average change over time in the selling prices received by domestic producers for their output. The prices included in the PPI are from the first commercial transaction for many products and some services. The Producer Price Index for final demand declined 0.5 percent in September. Final demand prices were unchanged in August and rose 0.2 percent in July. In September, prices for final demand goods fell 1.2 percent and the index for final demand services decreased 0.4 percent.
DEFINITION of 'Producer Price Index-PPI'. A family of indexes that measures the average change in selling prices received by domestic producers of goods and services over time. PPIs measure price change from the perspective of the seller
The Producer Price Index is a family of indexes that measures the average change over time in the selling prices received by domestic producers of goods and services. PPIs measure price change from the perspective of the seller. The change in name from Wholesale Price Index to Producer Price Index did not include a change in index methodology, and the continuity of the price index data was unaffected. The name change reflects the theoretical model of the output price index that underlies the PPI.
The official measure of producer prices in the US is called the Producer Price Index (PPI). It measures average changes in prices received by domestic producers for their output. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The official measure of producer prices in the US is called the Producer Price Index (PPI). It measures average changes in prices received by domestic producers for their output. The PPI was known as the Wholesale Price Index, or WPI, up to 1978.
The Producer Price Index, or PPI, is an important report, but it doesn’t usually move the markets to the same degree as the Consumer Price Index (CPI) and the employment report. The PPI measures prices at the producer level. In other words, it’s a measurement of the cost of raw materials to companies that produce goods. 