Report Abuse. Veins move blood towards the heart from the lungs and eventually through the aorta to the rest of the body. These carry oxygenated blood. Arteries move blood away from the heart to the lungs. There, the blood will pick up oxygen
Unlike arteries, veins contain valves that ensure blood flows in only one direction. (Arteries don’t require valves because pressure from the heart is so strong that blood is only able to flow in one direction.) Valves also help blood travel back to the heart against the force of gravity. Arteries carry oxygenated blood away from the heart. They’re tough on the outside but they contain a smooth interior layer of epithelial cells that allows blood to flow easily. Arteries also contain a strong, muscular middle layer that helps pump blood through the body.
The aorta (/eɪˈɔrtə/) is the main artery in the human body, originating from the left ventricle of the heart and extending down to the abdomen, where it splits into two smaller arteries (the common iliac arteries). The aorta distributes oxygenated blood to all parts of the body through the systemic circulation. 
Arterial Circulation. Arterial circulation is the part of your circulatory system that involves arteries, like the aorta and pulmonary arteries. Arteries are blood vessels that carry blood away from your heart. (The exception is the coronary arteries, which supply your heart muscle with oxygen-rich blood.). Venous circulation is the part of your circulatory system that involves veins, like the vena cavae and pulmonary veins. Veins are blood vessels that carry blood to your heart. Veins have thinner walls than arteries. Veins can widen as the amount of blood passing through them increases.
There are two types of blood vessels in the circulatory system of the body: arteries that carry oxygenated blood from the heart to various parts of the body and veins that carry blood towards the heart for purification. They are tiny branches of arteries that lead to capillaries and help maintain the pressure and blood flow in the body. Venous valves prevent blood from flowing in the opposite direction. Connective tissues make up the outermost layer of a vein which is also known as-tunica adventitia or tunica externa.
Arteries carry oxygenated blood (with the exception of the pulmonary artery and umbilical artery). Veins carry deoxygenated blood (with the exception of pulmonary veins and umbilical vein). They are tiny branches of arteries that lead to capillaries and help maintain the pressure and blood flow in the body. Venous valves prevent blood from flowing in the opposite direction. Connective tissues make up the outermost layer of a vein which is also known as-tunica adventitia or tunica externa.
All arteries carry blood away from the heart. The one artery that carries blood away from the heart before it gets oxygenated in the lungs is the artery that carries the oxygen poor blood form the right ventricle to the lungs: the pulmonary artery. Well Veins carry deoxygenated blood from the body to the heart and Arteries carry oxygenated blood from the heart to the rest of the body.
from the heart, blood flows through the arteries to the different organs of the body and through every cell through the capillaries. blood in the arteries are high in pressure because they have just been pumped by the heart so the main driving force is the increased blood pressure brought about by cardiac contraction. 