Tar Heel. Tar Heel is a nickname applied to the state and inhabitants of North Carolina as well as the nickname of the University of North Carolina athletic teams, students, alumni, and fans. For a time after the Civil War, the name Tar Heel was derogatory, but it was later reappropriated by the people of North Carolina. Because the exact history of the term is unknown, a number of legends have developed to explain it.
Historians have recorded that the principal products during the early history of North Carolina were tar, pitch, and turpentine.. In 1862 tar-heel was introduced as a term … of ridicule. It was during one of the fiercest battles of the War Between the States, so the story goes, that the column supporting the North Carolina troops was driven from the field. Creecy relates that General Lee, upon hearing of the incident, said: God bless the Tar Heel boys, and from that they took the name (Adapted from Grandfather Tales of North Carolina by R.B. Creecy and Histories of North Carolina Regiments, Vol. III, by Walter Clark).
Somehow, these terms evolved until the nickname Tar Heel was used to refer to residents of North Carolina and gained prominence during the American Civil War. During this time, the nickname Tar Heel was a pejorative, but starting around 1865, the term began to be used as a source of pride. 1 In a letter dated 1864 (in the North Carolina Tar Heel Collection), a Colonel Joseph Engelhard described the Battle of Ream's Station in Virginia.
Now let's discuss why North Carolina is known as both the Tar Heel State and the Old North State. Old North State History In 1629, King Charles I of England erected into a province all the land from Albemarle Sound on the north to the St. John's River on the south, which he directed should be called Carolina. North Carolina is known also as the Tar Heel State and the Old North State. The following song known as The Old North State was adopted as the official song of the State of North Carolina by the General Assembly of 1927.
The exact etymology of the nickname is unknown, but most folklore believe its roots come from the fact that tar, pitch, and turpentine created from the vast pine forests were some of North Carolina's most important exports early in the state's history. 1 In a letter dated 1864 (in the North Carolina Tar Heel Collection), a Colonel Joseph Engelhard described the Battle of Ream's Station in Virginia.
The moniker is rooted in the state's earliest history, derived from the production of naval stores-tar, pitch and turpentine-extracted from the vast pine forests of the state. Early explorers from Jamestown pointed out the possibilities for naval stores production along the Chowan River. Eventually Parliament offered a bounty for their production, and North Carolina became an important source of tar and pitch for the English navy.
Tarheel. The word Tar Heel (or, Tarheel) is the nickname given to someone who is a native or resident of North Carolina, the Tar Heel State. The term allegedly comes from the Colonial Era in which tar was one of North Carolina's major products. tarheel. tarheel is a term used to describe someone from North Carolina. The name originated in the civil war era when a union general remarked that the NC rebels must have tar on their heels because they stick to their lines and don't run no matter how intense the battle becomes.
Because the exact history of the term is unknown, a number of legends have developed to explain it. One such legend claims it to be a nickname given during the U.S. Civil War, because of the state's importance on the Confederate side, and the fact that the troops stuck to their ranks like they had tar on their heels. The term Tar Heel gained popularity during the Civil War. 1 In a letter dated 1864 (in the North Carolina Tar Heel Collection), a Colonel Joseph Engelhard described the Battle of Ream's Station in Virginia.