Chapter Summary. A contingency contract specifies the contingent relationship between the completion of a specified behavior and access to a specific reinforcer. A contract describes the tasks and the reward, and has a record of progress. Chapter Objectives. 1  Define and identify the components of a contingency contract. 2  Define and identify the components of a token economy. 3  Explain the considerations that must be made when implementing a token economy. 4  Define and identify the different types of group contingencies.
Definition. A contingency contract is a positive intervention that specifies the behavioral, social, or academic expectations to be completed in order to access reinforcement. A contract is typically developed by the client(s) and the individual providing treatment. A clear definition of the task(s), to be completed by the client(s), is outlined, a criterion is established, and a reinforcer is identified. The contract must also monitor individual or group progress after obtaining the baseline level of performance.
Behavior contracting is a therapeutic technique in which an agreement is reached with a client, usually in the form of a written, signed contract. This would make clear the consequences that would follow certain identified behaviors. These agreements make clear the schedule of reinforcement being applied and in signing up to the agreement it is understood that this might motivate the client to cooperate with the program. The contract may be seen as an adjunct to a behavior modification program or a behavior therapy intervention.
An example of a contingency contract is a token economy system which specifies the target behavior to increase, tokens to be delivered, and the reinforcer as secondary for exhibiting the target behavior and also specifies a variety of highly preferred reinforcers to earn in exchange for the tokens. A clear definition of the task(s), to be completed by the client(s), is outlined, a criterion is established, and a reinforcer is identified. The contract must also monitor individual or group progress after obtaining the baseline level of performance.
a collectively agreed-upon account between an educator and pupil, a mother or father and kid, or a patient and therapy professional concerning the development or enhancements wished for, usually indicating behaviors and their beneficial and unfavorable impacts. 
n. that possibility that there may or may not be a relationship between an individual's specific response and the frequency and regularity by which that response has been reinforced. Already, there are expectations on the consequences of behaving in a certain way and these, in turn, shape the behavior. BEHAVIORAL CONTINGENCY: In a way, behavioral contingency 'dictates' that, when you've come to expect that people will be fashionably late for a party, then you condition yourself not to show up too early either. . No related posts.
Introduction A contingency contract is an agreement between a student and teacher which states behavioral or academic goalsfor the student and reinforcers or rewards that the student will receive contingent upon achievement of thesegoals. 