Meaning of Peyton. English name. In English, the name Peyton means-village.The name Peyton originated as an English name. The name Peyton is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). English Name Meaning-village. Origin-England
Meaning & History. From an English surname, originally a place name meaning  PAEGA 'pæga s. Town a famous bearer Was Peyton (randolph-1721), 1775 the first president of The Continental. Congress it is also borne By american football Quarterback Peyton (manning-). 1976 
[ 2 syll. pey-ton, pe-yt-on ] The baby boy name Peyton is also used as a girl name, and more commonly so. Its pronunciation is P EY-TahN †. Peyton is an Irish and English name of Latin, Middle English, and Old English origin. From Old English roots, its meaning is farm of Paega; peacock town-in this context, Peyton can be used in the English language. The first name is derived from the surname, which is itself from a place name from Suffolk, England. Peyton is also a variant of the name Patton (English). Peyton is a widely used name; it has 21 variants. Variants include Paeten, Paeton, Paetun, Paiten, Paiton, Paitun, Pate, Paten, Paton, Patun, Pay, Payten, Payton, Paytun, Peaton, Peighton, Peyt, Peyten, Peython, Peytonn, and Peytun.
Origin of the name Payton: Transferred use of the English surname, which is from the place-name Payton in Devon. The name is thought to be derived from the obsolete Anglo-Saxon personal name Paegan pægan and The Old english (tūn, town, settlement). Village From A world Of Baby names By Teresa. norman
Baby names meanings search results: The name Peyton is a baby boy name. The name Peyton comes from the English origin. In English The meaning of the name Peyton is: An English place name, meaning Paega's town. Similar Names: 1  Eyton (English).
Scottish Meaning: The name Payton is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Payton is: royal. American Meaning: The name Payton is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Payton is: royal.
Peyton /pey-ton/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used more commonly as girls' name Peyton) is pronounced PAY-ten. It is of Old English origin, and the meaning of Peyton is fighter's estate. Place name. Possibly related to Patrick or Patton. Football players Walter Payton, Peyton Manning; basketball player Gary %3. 
The name Peyton is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Peyton is: royal. Latin Meaning: The name Peyton is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Peyton is: Regal. Irish Meaning: The name Peyton is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Peyton is: Patrician; noble. Form of Patrick
Peyton Name Meaning. The meaning of Peyton is “From PAYTON”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant.