Costs at NDSCS-Tuition & Expenses. NDSCS operates on the semester system. This means that students will pay major expenses at the beginning of each semester – September, January and June. Tuition rate and fees are based upon where you live and the number of credits you take.
The total list price for in-state North Dakota residents to go to North Dakota State College of Science is $12,268 for the 2014/2015 academic year. Out-of-state students who don't possess North Dakota residence can expect a one year cost of $18,680. North Dakota State College of Science tuition is $3,781 per year for in-state residents. This is 16% more expensive than the national average public two year tuition of $3,263. The cost is $278 and 8% more expensive than the average North Dakota tuition of $3,503 for 2 year colleges. Tuition ranks 6th in North Dakota amongst 2 year colleges for affordability and is the 2nd most expensive 2 year college in the state
Costs reflected here represent the Base Tuition for a full-time student for a full academic year. Several programs charge differential tuition. Differential Tuition is assessed to students in selected programs to cover the costs of additional resources and facilities associated with those programs. Differential tuition is typically assessed to students accepted into the professional phase of the program. 
Undergraduate Tuition. North Dakota State College of Science tuition is $3,781 per year for in-state residents. This is 16% more expensive than the national average public two year tuition of $3,263. The cost is $278 and 8% more expensive than the average North Dakota tuition of $3,503 for 2 year colleges. Tuition ranks 6th in North Dakota amongst 2 year colleges for affordability and is the 2nd most expensive 2 year college in the state
Detailed Tuition & Fee List. Costs stated on this website are estimated costs for a semester and may not include all applicable fees for a particular program, course or class. Permanent Residence:
These estimates will give you a general idea of what one academic year (fall and spring semesters) taking a 16-credit course load costs at NDSCS. Residents of all states and countries living on-campus with a meal plan of 160, 225 or 300 meals will be charged in-state tuition. *The average amount for fees is $644 for all states. The remainder is tuition for an average of 16 credits each semester. All rates are for two semesters. **Personal expenses may include, but are not limited to: medical/dental, clothing, toiletries, entertainment/miscellaneous, transportation, loan fees, etc. NDSCS operates on the semester system. This means that students will pay major expenses at the beginning of each semester – September, January and June. Tuition rate and fees are based upon where you live and the number of credits you take.
Part-Time Costs. Cost per credit hour (in-state): $123.00. Cost per credit hour (out-of-state): $328.00. Note: These costs are tuition fees only. In some cases, fees and other expenses can be additional. 
For NDSU costs, go to www.ndsu.edu/admission/cost_tuition/cost/ . For NDSCS costs, go to https://www.ndscs.edu/paying-for-college/things-to-know-paying-for-college/costs-at-ndscs-tuition-fees/. The Pathway Program is a collaborative agreement between North Dakota State University and North Dakota State College of Science that prepares students for the academic rigors of college level course work.
Pathway students pay NDSCS tuition and fees for all classes taken through NDSCS, and NDSU tuition and fees for all classes taken through NDSU. All costs, including tuition, fees, room and board, etc., are combined and administered through NDSCS. The Pathway Program is a collaborative agreement between North Dakota State University and North Dakota State College of Science that prepares students for the academic rigors of college level course work.