The fluid contains stem cells that come from the fetus. These cells have a more limited capacity to develop into different cell types than stem cells in the embryo. The researchers used stem cells from amniotic fluid donated by mothers undergoing amniocentesis for other purposes during the first trimester of pregnancy.
Amniocentesis is a procedure used to obtain a small sample of the amniotic fluid that surrounds the fetus during pregnancy. Amniotic fluid is a clear, pale yellow fluid made by the fetus. The fluid protects the fetus from injury and helps to regulate the temperature of
In terms of differentiation potential, ESCs are pluripotent and adult stem cells are multipotent. Amnion, which is a membranous sac that contains the fetus and amniotic fluid and functions in protecting the developing embryo during gestation, is another stem cell source.
In the early weeks of pregnancy, the amniotic fluid is mostly water that comes from your body. After about 20 weeks of pregnancy, your baby’s urine makes up most of the fluid. Amniotic fluid also contains nutrients, hormones (chemicals made by the body) and antibodies (cells in the body that fight off infection). The amount of amniotic fluid increases until about 36 weeks of pregnancy.
The fluid is absorbed and continually renewed. The fetus swallows and inhales amniotic fluid and releases urine into it. Cells from various parts of the fetus's body and chemicals produced by the fetus are present in the amniotic fluid. This allows the fluid to be sampled and tested to evaluate fetal health.
Researchers have found that some stem cells in human amniotic fluid appear to have many of the key therapeutic benefits of embryonic stem cells while avoiding their knottiest ethical, medical and logistical drawbacks, according to a study published Sunday.
The fetus swallows and inhales amniotic fluid and releases urine into it. Cells from various parts of the fetus's body and chemicals produced by the fetus are present in the amniotic fluid.