Medical Definition of MACULE. 1. : macula 2. 2. : a patch of skin that is altered in color but usually not elevated and that is a characteristic feature of various diseases (as smallpox). Britannica English: Translation of macule for Arabic speakers.
Definition of MACULE. : a patch of skin that is altered in color but usually not elevated and that is a characteristic feature of various diseases (as smallpox). ADVERTISEMENT. 2. : a patch of skin that is altered in color but usually not elevated and that is a characteristic feature of various diseases (as smallpox). Britannica English: Translation of macule for Arabic speakers.
If the diagnosis of oral melanotic macule is not certain, your physician may wish to perform a skin biopsy in order to confirm the diagnosis. The procedure involves: Your doctor is more likely to biopsy certain lesions, such as new ones, large or growing ones, or those with irregular color (pigmentation). The most common locations for an oral melanotic macule include: An oral melanotic macule appears as a solitary, flat, tan-to-dark-brown spot usually less than 7 mm in diameter. It has a well-defined border and a uniform color. People can have more than one oral melanotic macule.
It is a symptom of medical conditions such as vitiligo (a skin condition characterized by white patches on the skin) and rosacea (an inflammatory skin condition that includes red macules). Areas of discoloration that are larger than 1 cm are referred to as patches. A macule may be hypopigmented (lighter than the skin) or hyperpigmented (darker than the skin). A birthmark may be considered a macule if it is small. Larger birthmarks are considered to be patches. A rash may be referred to as a macule if the color of the rash is different from the color of the skin on the body. This form of macule is caused by infection or disease. Hyperpigmented macules may be referred to as cafe café au lait. spots
What Is a Macule? A macule is a flat, distinct, discolored area of skin less than 1 cm wide that does not involve any change in the thickness or texture of the skin. A macule occurs without the presence of physical trauma. A macule may be hypopigmented (lighter than the skin) or hyperpigmented (darker than the skin). A birthmark may be considered a macule if it is small. Larger birthmarks are considered to be patches. A rash may be referred to as a macule if the color of the rash is different from the color of the skin on the body. This form of macule is caused by infection or disease. Hyperpigmented macules may be referred to as cafe café au lait. spots
Having a melanotic macule does not cause any symptoms but when you see one it is usually smaller than seven millimeters in diameter. The lesions will usually appear as a flat non-itchy rash on the lip with a color that is uniform and has a border that is well-defined. It can even be found on the inside of your mouth, gums, called gingiva, the roof your mouth on the soft or hard palate, or inner cheek called buccal mucosa. It has also been found on the genital areas. A melanotic macule is normally benign, which means it is not cancerous.
Macule-skin lesion. Macule is a small SKIN LESION that is flat, smooth, and discolored. Macules are common and may appear as the presenting symptom for numerous dermatologic and other health conditions. Often the only symptom they present themselves is discoloration, though some macules itch or hurt. A macule is the same texture and thickness as the adjacent skin and generally no larger than two inches in length, width, or diameter. The most common macule is a lentigo, or freckle. See also BIRTHMARK; LENTIGINES; NODULE; PAPULE; PUSTULE; VITILIGO.
Macule: A circumscribed change in the color of skin that is neither raised nor depressed. Macules are completely flat and can only be appreciated by visual inspection and not by touch. Physicians refer to flat skin spots on the skin as macules, as opposed to papules. 
These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. A macule is a spot of discoloration on the skin which is smaller than a third of an inch (one centimeter) across. Larger areas of discoloration are known as patches. Maculues can be caused by any number of things, and may be a cause for concern in some cases, or an utterly unremarkable finding in others. 