Zebra are just one of the millions of herbivores migrating in search of food every year. About 1.5 million wildebeests account for the bulk of migrating animals, with hundreds of thousands of zebras, antelopes and elks comprising most of the rest of the migration. The migration is actually a large circle, as the zebra, wildebeests and other animals move clockwise from the southeast. The timing depends on environmental conditions, including the availability of water.
Serengeti Migration. The largest zebra migration is the annual migration of more than two million from the Serengeti to Kenya. This trip is about 500 miles and it includes a large circle that includes zebras, wildebeests, and many other animals as they move clockwise from the southeast. This is a very tough journey for the zebras. There are large predators such as leopards, lions, hyenas and cheetahs. These predators are attracted to the masses of easy prey. This migration loop also crosses the Mara and Grumeti Rivers, which are home to Nile crocodiles.
Zebras are single-hoofed animals that are native to Africa. Zebras are very closely related to horses and donkeys; in fact, they are in the same genus, Equus. The most prominent feature of zebras is the bold patterns on their coats. Plains zebras live in the treeless grasslands and woodlands of eastern and southern Africa. The Grevy's zebra lives in in the arid grasslands of Ethiopia and northern Kenya. The mountain zebra is found in South Africa, Namibia and Angola.
Each year thousands of zebra migrate in search of greener grazing pastures. It's not just zebras migrating -- they are a small part of millions of animals making an annual trek for better food and water supplies when grazing land dries up from seasonal drought. The migration is actually a large circle, as the zebra, wildebeests and other animals move clockwise from the southeast. The timing depends on environmental conditions, including the availability of water.
Flooding and drought often dictates where the next migration will occur as herds of zebras and other wandering animals rush to where they can find food and shelter. Migration is a way of life for zebras and other wildlife that are dependent on their environment for survival. Even predators like lions and hyenas follow the migration trail as it is their way of life out there in the wild. Zebras will travel long and harsh terrain just to forage and graze for their food. One of their unique behaviors is migration which baffled scientists in the beginning. Zebras are not the only species known to do this and experts delved further into the mystery for this action. Migration is defined as moving out to one place without the intention of staying or transience
Domesticated animals aside, the zebra is perhaps the most recognizable animal for any human being. Its unique stripes are a dead giveaway and their docile behavior despite being in the wild earns them affection from people. Zebras will travel long and harsh terrain just to forage and graze for their food. One of their unique behaviors is migration which baffled scientists in the beginning. Zebras are not the only species known to do this and experts delved further into the mystery for this action. Migration is defined as moving out to one place without the intention of staying or transienc
Though they all live in Africa, each species of zebra has its own home area. Plains zebras live in the treeless grasslands and woodlands of eastern and southern Africa. The Grevy's zebra lives in in the arid grasslands of Ethiopia and northern Kenya. The mountain zebra is found in South Africa, Namibia and Angola.
Zebra Migration. Each and every year, thousands of zebra migrate in search for better grazing pastures. Zebras are just one of the many of herbivores that migrate in search of food every year. This is a very tough journey for the zebras. There are large predators such as leopards, lions, hyenas and cheetahs. These predators are attracted to the masses of easy prey. This migration loop also crosses the Mara and Grumeti Rivers, which are home to Nile crocodiles.
The plains zebra (Equus quagga, formerly Equus burchellii), also known as the common zebra or Burchell's zebra, is the most common and geographically widespread species of zebra. It ranges from the south of Ethiopia through East Africa to as far south as Botswana and eastern South Africa. 