electric charge-the quantity of unbalanced electricity in a body (either positive or negative) and construed as an excess or deficiency of electrons; the battery needed a fresh charge. charge. 
The electric charge is a fundamental conserved property of some subatomic particles, which determines their electromagnetic interaction. Electric charge is a characteristic property of many subatomic particles. The charges of free-standing particles are integer multiples of the elementary charge e; we say that electric charge is quantized. Michael Faraday, in his electrolysis experiments, was the first to note the discrete nature of electric charge.
Part of the Electronics glossary: In physics, charge, also known as electric charge, electrical charge, or electrostatic charge and symbolized q, is a characteristic of a unit of matter that expresses the extent to which it has more or fewer electrons than protons. In an atom of matter, an electrical charge occurs whenever the number of protons in the nucleus differs from the number of electrons surrounding that nucleus. If there are more electrons than protons, the atom has a negative charge.
Electric field of a positive and a negative point charge. Electric charge is the physical property of matter that causes it to experience a force when placed in an electromagnetic field. There are two types of electric charges: positive and negative. Electric charge is a characteristic property of many subatomic particles. The charges of free-standing particles are integer multiples of the elementary charge e; we say that electric charge is quantized. Michael Faraday, in his electrolysis experiments, was the first to note the discrete nature of electric charge.
The SI derived unit of electric charge is the coulomb (C), although in electrical engineering it is also common to use the ampere-hour (Ah), and in chemistry it is common to use the elementary charge (e) as a unit. The symbol Q is often used to denote charge. Electric charge is a characteristic property of many subatomic particles. The charges of free-standing particles are integer multiples of the elementary charge e; we say that electric charge is quantized. Michael Faraday, in his electrolysis experiments, was the first to note the discrete nature of electric charge.
Electric charge. Before showing you what electric charge is, a discussion of what electrical forces are is important. Keep reading carefully. In the end, you will under why your finger received an electric shock. 
• ELECTRIC CHARGE (noun). The noun ELECTRIC CHARGE has 1 sense: 1. the quantity of unbalanced electricity in a body (either positive or negative) and construed as an excess or deficiency of electrons. Familiarity information: ELECTRIC CHARGE used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details
Electricity is the set of physical phenomena associated with the presence and flow of electric charge. Electricity gives a wide variety of well-known effects, such as lightning, static electricity, electromagnetic induction and electric current. 
Electric charge. Electric charge is the physical property of matter that causes it to experience a force when close to other electrically charged matter. There are two types of electric charges, called positive and negative. 