1 Anxiety neurosis characterized to a psychiatric situtation in which emotional distress or unconscious conflict is expressed through kind of physical, psychological and mental disturbances. 2  Patient of anxiety neurosis want to get better but can’t find the coping skills to create a richer, more meaningful life. 1 Anxiety neurosis comes to a class of functional mental disorder including distress but not delusionsor hallucinations, where behavior is not outside socially acceptable condition. 2  It is also called psychoneurosis or neurotic disorder.
Basically, neurosis is an actual disorder, such as obsessive thoughts or anxiety, while neuroticism is the state of having the disorder. In modern non-medical texts the two are often used with the same meaning. For psychologists and psychiatrists today, these terms are rarely used (outdated terms). Neuroticism is a long-term tendency to be in a negative emotional state. People with neuroticism tend to have more depressed moods-they suffer from feelings of guilt, envy, anger and anxiety, more frequently and more severely than other individuals. Neuroticism is the state of being neurotic.
Such disorders are currently classified as anxiety disorders, dissociative disorders, mood disorders, sexual disorders, and somatoform disorders. anxiety neurosis an obsolete term (Freud) for conditions now reclassified as panic disorder and generalized anxiety disorder. hysterical neurosis a former classification of mental disorders, now divided into conversion disorder and dissociative disorders. prison neurosis chronophobia occurring in prisoners having trouble adjusting to a long prison sentence, characterized by feelings of restlessness, panic, anxiety, and claustrophobia.
Disorders that are considered a neurosis or neurotic disorder include post-traumatic stress disorder, somatization disorders, anxiety disorder, panic disorder, phobias, dissociation disorder, obsessive compulsive disorder and adjustment disorder. Anxiety and fear are common symptoms to many disorders that are considered a neurosis or neurotic disorder. People with disorders that are considered a neurosis or neurotic disorder do not have delusions or hallucination, which are symptoms of psychotic disorders.
Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. neurosis is an antiquated term. Anxiety Disorder (formerly anxiety neurosis) is a diagnosis made by a physician when a patient exhibits certain specific symptoms and other causes for the symptoms have been ruled out. 
The Difference Between Anxiety and Neurosis. Neurosis is simply an older term for anxiety. In fact, most forms of anxiety were simply labeled as anxiety neurosis, with little distinguishing characteristics between the different types of anxiety disorders. You should take my anxiety test now to get an idea of what a modern term for your anxiety would be. But since then, psychologists have renamed anxiety neurosis, and now use the term anxiety disorders-or the specific disorder itself. Neurosis can have both physical and mental symptoms, much like traditional anxiety, but most often refers to mental worries and nervousness.
Neurosis. Neurotic disorders, defined as neuroses are mental disorders of varying base (e.g. emotional or mental). Currently, this term is replaced by a more accurate determination-anxiety disorders. People suffering from neurosis often behave strangely in contact with other people. 
Anxiety disorders are a category of mental disorders characterized by feelings of anxiety and fear, where anxiety is a worry about future events and fear is a reaction to current events. 