Vlookup is one of Excel's built-in functions. The function is used when you want to find a value in the left-hand column of a vertical array of data, and return the corresponding value from another column in the same array. This best explained through an example. 
Learn how to use VLOOKUP to look up a value you want to find in an Excel list or table. Using VLOOKUP is similar to looking up a person’s name in a telephone book to get a telephone number. VLOOKUP looks at a value in one column, and finds its corresponding value on the same row in another column. 
Learn how to sort data in a table alphabetically or numerically. VLOOKUP is a member of the lookup and reference functions, which includes the HLOOKUP function. Use the CLEAN function or the TRIM function to remove leading spaces in table values. Learn more about errors in worksheets, like #N/A, #REF, and the rest. 
The built-in VLOOKUP function in Office Excel 2007 is used to dynamically search for matching values in a table arrays. Given a value, it performs a vertical search in the first column of the specified table, and if it finds a match, it returns a value from the specified column in the same row. Office Excel 2007 contains a number of search functions to address this need. The VLOOKUP function enables you to search for a value in the first column of a table array, and if a match is found, then return a value from another column in this same row.
1. Know when to use Vlookup. Vlookup is a function in Excel that allows you to type the value of one cell to look up the value of a corresponding cell in the same row. 1  Use it to look up information from a large spreadsheet or if you have to find repetitive information. In the cell, enter this formula: =VLOOKUP(lookup_value, table_array, col_index_num, range_lookup). 1  You can use any cell to write this is, but remember that whatever cell you choose is entered as the “lookup value” in your function code.
VLOOKUP is one of Excel’s most useful functions, and it’s also one of the least understood. In this article, we demystify VLOOKUP by way of a real-life example. We’ll create a usable Invoice Template for a fictitious company. Note: For the VLOOKUP function to work with a database/list, that list must have a column containing the unique identifier (or “key”, or “ID”), and that column must be the first column in the table. Our sample database above satisfies this criterion.
Yes, your guess is right. VLOOKUP is one of the formulas you can use to answer questions like this. VLOOKUP searches a list for a value in left most column and returns corresponding value from adjacent columns. So, in our case, we need VLOOKUP to search for Jimmy and return the amount of sales he made from column 3.
In a blank cell type the Vlookup formula. In the cell, enter this formula: =VLOOKUP(lookup_value, table_array, col_index_num, range_lookup). 1  You can use any cell to write this is, but remember that whatever cell you choose is entered as the “lookup value” in your function code.
Summary. The VLOOKUP and HLOOKUP functions contain an argument called range_lookup that allows you to find an exact match to your lookup value without sorting the lookup table. Note It is not necessary to sort the lookup table if you use the range_lookup argument correctly. 