You can be denied unemployment compensation when fired, but only if you were fired for willful misconduct (43 P.S. § 802(e)). For you to be denied unemployment compensation, it is up to your former employer to prove that you were fired for willful misconduct. A: You can be denied unemployment compensation if you were fired for wrongdoing outside of work, but only if: 1) You engaged in some unacceptable conduct, for which you were at fault, and. 2) This conduct negatively affects your ability to properly do your work (Martin v. UCBR, 713 A.2d 753 (1998)).
Here, we provide educational information. Employers don't typically have to enforce attendance policies evenly or fairly. However, if they wish to have employee's denied unemployment upon termination, the employee will often need to be aware that his/her conduct is unacceptable. Again, if an employee can show that absence and illness resulted from OSHA violations and safety hazards, that may leave an employee eligible for unemployment. 
In most cases, yes you can. You will receive notification once you file for Unemployment. When you file you select fired for attendance, or if that's not there then select fired/disqualified. Once you have filed you will be sent a letter and asked to call a number and claim (although no money will be given at this point).
How to Appeal. Every state has a process you can use to appeal a denial of unemployment benefits. Usually, you have to file your appeal fairly quickly. State time limits range from ten to 30 days or so after the agency mails you notice that your claim has been denied. If your claim for unemployment compensation is denied, you can file an appeal arguing that the agency's finding was incorrect. This article explains some common reasons why claims for unemployment benefits are denied and provides some basic information on the appeals process.
File an Appeal. If you’re denied unemployment, you have the right to appeal the decision. According to Nolo.com, a website that offers free legal aid, most states require you to appeal within 10 to 30 days of denial. Contact your local unemployment office for specific information on your state’s appeal process. Being denied unemployment can be a frightening blow to your finances. Try to fight the urge to panic, as solutions can only come to a calm, clear mind.
Best Answer: No, you can't collect unemployment for attendance issues unless you have a documented medical condition. Those are your choice. If you were depressed, you should have gotten counseling. Lots of people are depressed and have bad days, but they still go to work. 
1. Deliberate violation of employer rules. You can be denied unemployment compensation when fired for deliberately violating a company rule. Your employer must prove that a rule exists and you broke it (Arbster v. UCBR, 690 A.2d 805 (1997)). A: You can be denied unemployment compensation if you were fired for wrongdoing outside of work, but only if: 1) You engaged in some unacceptable conduct, for which you were at fault, and. 2) This conduct negatively affects your ability to properly do your work (Martin v. UCBR, 713 A.2d 753 (1998)).
If your unemployment claim is denied initially, the agency probably found that you are ineligible for unemployment benefits because: 1  You voluntarily quit your job. 2  You were fired from your last job for misconduct. 3  You didn't have sufficient earnings or work during the base period. If your claim for unemployment compensation is denied, you can file an appeal arguing that the agency's finding was incorrect. This article explains some common reasons why claims for unemployment benefits are denied and provides some basic information on the appeals process.
Unemployment can be denied if somebody is terminated for cause. This would include misconduct, poor performance, policy violations, attendance problems, etc. Even then it's up to the person conducting the unemployment hearing and the kind of mood they're in. 