ORCHID FOOD In their native habitat, orchids scavenge nutrients from whatever happens to be nearby: decomposing leaves, bird or animal droppings, or minerals borne in rainwater. You can help your orchid to grow faster and bloom sooner by feeding it the right fertilizers.
1 Most orchids bloom once a year, but if they are really happy, they may bloom more often. 2  If you want an orchid that blooms during a particular season, the best bet is to purchase a plant that is in bloom at that time. 3  When an orchid does flower it usually remains in bloom for six to ten weeks.
Most orchid potting media provide only support and have little or no food value. The plant food you use depends on the type of orchid and the type of growing media. I need to be fertilized with a product suitable for the media. When the plants are in bark, they need a high nitrogen food (such as 30-10-10).
The difference between a merely good orchid and a spectacular specimen plant is usually fertilizer. Like any other plant, orchids need fertilizer to thrive. It's true that they need less than most other plants—and too much fertilizer can quickly burn an orchid’s sensitive roots—but there is no doubt that well-fed orchids are healthier, hold their leaves longer and bear more flowers.
First and foremost, orchids do not grow in dirt, it will smother their roots and kill the plant. Orchids require special media in which to grow. The best media for an orchid is the one that best matches the type of orchid and the conditions in which it is growing.
These orchids need a constantly moist, but never soggy, medium in which to grow. Paphiopedilums and cymbidiums are examples. Epiphytic orchids live on the branches of other plants -- usually trees. They are not parasites -- they obtain no food from the trees on which they grow.
A: Be sure to use an orchid food that is formulated for orchids and follow the instructions on the label. In general, most orchid fertilizers recommend usage once a month. Less frequent fertilizing may stunt growth and inhibit flowering; more frequent fertilizing may burn the roots and leaves and inhibit flowering.