If you wish, you can leave the unhatched eggs a few days longer after you take the chicks out. I’ve tried that and never had one hatch doing that. Once you get a few hatches with your incubator you get a feel for what should happen. It gets easier with that experience. Mine are never late but others have reported eggs in an incubator and under a broody a few days late. That 21 days is just a theory. Reality is often different. I’ve had hatches that were totally over in less than 18 hours from the first to the last. I’ve had hatches that stretch out well over two days
It takes a chicken 21 days to hatch. Rather it's under a hen or in a incubator. Although if the incubator temperature is a little high,lets say 100.5 - 101 they may hatch a da … y early. If it's to low,lets say 97-98.5 it may take a day longer. Any temperature under 97 or over 102 for very long,they probably wont hatch or will have problem after hatching.
If it is necessary to hold the eggs before you set them, turn them daily and keep them in a room where the temperature is around 50 o F (10 C) and the relative humidity is 70 to 80 percent. The vegetable section of your refrigerator could be used for holding the egg until it is time to place them in the incubator. PREPARING THE EGGS FOR INCUBATION. Eggs must be turned while in the incubator, so before you put in the eggs mark them with a pencil so you can tell when they have been properly turned. An excellent method is to put an X on one side of the egg and an 0 on the opposite side.
Learning how to properly hatch chicks in an incubator before attempting it is vital to your success. A 100% hatch rate is nearly impossible to get without fancy gadgets and expensive equipment, but you can still reach a 75-80% hatch success if you follow a few simple guidelines. Still, don’t expect too much. 
Chicken eggs should hatch 21 days after they first start in an incubator. (Remember that your eggs have already been incubated for 14 days before you receive them!) Other bird species have different incubation times. For instance, duck eggs take 28 days to hatch; goose eggs take 30 days.
For the small poultry keeper there is the choice of two methods of hatching chicks-natural or artificial. The best idea is to gain experience and confidence in both. Hen eggs take 21 days to hatch, duck and turkey eggs 28 days, most goose eggs 28 - 30 days and Muscovy eggs 35 days. Artificial hatching. This is the use of an incubator to hatch eggs. Small incubators are in regular use with many poultry keepers, the advantage being that incubation conditions are instantly available at the flick of a switch.
1 The mother may still be incubating the eggs. 2  The length of time it takes for eggs to hatch after incubation begins depends on the species and temperatures. 3  For bluebirds, it USUALLY takes about 12-14 days from the date the last egg was laid. 1 Depending on when incubation begins (on the last, or next to last egg), eggs in the same nest can hatch a day or several days apart. 2  It also takes a while for the bird to break through the shell. 3  It could be a new egg from a subsequent nesting if you didn't clean the box out immediately after the last fledging.
I’m not sure if you are talking about “if none hatch” or “after some have hatched”. In theory chicken eggs should hatch after 21 days of incubation but that’s just theory. Many things affect when eggs hatch, heredity, humidity, how and how long the eggs were stored, and just plain differences in individual eggs. A big factor is average incubation temperature. Mine are never late but others have reported eggs in an incubator and under a broody a few days late. That 21 days is just a theory. Reality is often different. I’ve had hatches that were totally over in less than 18 hours from the first to the last. I’ve had hatches that stretch out well over two days
1 The length of time it takes for eggs to hatch after incubation begins depends on the species and temperatures. 2  For bluebirds, it USUALLY takes about 12-14 days from the date the last egg was laid. 3  Different species have different incubation periods, which can vary within a species due to temperature inside the nestbox. 1 Depending on when incubation begins (on the last, or next to last egg), eggs in the same nest can hatch a day or several days apart. 2  It also takes a while for the bird to break through the shell. 3  It could be a new egg from a subsequent nesting if you didn't clean the box out immediately after the last fledging.