Introduction. A divergent boundary is an area where two crustal plates are separating. Most of these tectonic plate boundaries are located on the floor of the oceans. The separating plates form rift valleys on the ocean floor where there are weaknesses in the crust. New oceanic crust.
The most active divergent boundaries are between mid-oceanic ridges.   A divergent boundary is an area in the Earth … 's crust where two plates have been pulled apart like at a spreading center. A divergent boundary is when two plates are moving away from each other. + 15 others found this useful.
A divergent boundary (or constructive boundary) is where two sections of the egg shell-two tectonic plates-are moving away from each other. When this happens, they leave a gap in-between, and this gap can be filled by the magma from below. 
A divergent boundary occurs when two tectonic plates move away from each other. Along these boundaries, lava spews from long fissures and geysers spurt superheated water. Frequent earthquakes strike along the rift. Beneath the rift, magma—molten rock—rises from the mantle. 
In plate tectonics, a divergent boundary or divergent plate boundary (also known as a constructive boundary or an extensional boundary) is a linear feature that exists between two tectonic plates that are moving away from each other. Over millions of years, tectonic plates may move many hundreds of kilometers away from both sides of a divergent plate boundary. Because of this, rocks closest to a boundary are younger than rocks further away on the same plate.
At divergent boundaries, two plates move apart from each other and the space that this creates is filled with new crustal material sourced from molten magma that forms below. The origin of new divergent boundaries at triple junctions is sometimes thought to be associated with the phenomenon known as hotspots. Over millions of years, tectonic plates may move many hundreds of kilometers away from both sides of a divergent plate boundary. Because of this, rocks closest to a boundary are younger than rocks further away on the same plate.
Divergent Boundaries. The word diverge is a big word used by scientists to describe what happens when two objects move away from each other. Thus, a divergent boundary is a boundary where two tectonic plates are moving away from one another. As we have already discussed, this most often takes place at ocean ridges.
In plate tectonics, a Divergent boundary or divergent plate boundary (also known as a constructive boundary or an extensional boundary) is a linear feature that exists between … two tectonic plates that are moving away from each other. These areas can form on the end of continents but eventually form ocean basins. A divergent boundary is an area in the Earth … 's crust where two plates have been pulled apart like at a spreading center. A divergent boundary is when two plates are moving away from each other. + 15 others found this useful.