If left untreated, a bulging disc in the neck which is compressing a nerve for a long period of time can cause permanent nerve damage, muscle atrophy and reduce overall physical activity which can lead to other health problems. In many cases a bulging disc in the neck will heal on its own with proper rest and therapy. Bulging Disc in Neck-In the spinal column there are discs between each vertebra. These discs are made up of soft gelatinous material (the nucleus pulposus) that acts as cushioning, or shock absorption, for the spine.
A bulging neck disc is often the precursor of a herniated neck disc. It can be painful, and the amount of the pain can be directly related to the amount the disc is bulging. It is important to get a bulging disc treated before herniation because the symptoms of a herniated neck disc are worse than the bulging disc. The pain in the neck can range from a dull, thudding pain to a very sharp and severe pain. That pain is usually located around the base of the neck, or it can also be located at the neck's side. The bulging neck disc can be caused by a sports injury, an automobile accident, a household fall or the aging process.
A bulging disc injury is a common spine injury sustained to your spine's intervertebral disc. It can occur in your lumbar spine (lower back), thoracic spine (upper and mid-back) or your cervical spine (neck). When a bulging disc, disc herniation or disc rupture occurs, it is typically due to either: 1  a pre-existing weakness in the annulus, or. 2  a sudden increase in pressure through the disc causing fibres of the annulus to tear.
A bulging disc in the neck occurs when an intervertebral disc in the upper, or cervical, spine is damaged and weakened to the point that it protrudes outward. If the spinal cord or a nearby nerve root is compressed by bulging disc material, uncomfortable symptoms can arise in various areas of the body. Nerve root compression symptoms can include pain, numbness and tingling or “pins-and-needles” sensations that are typically localized in the neck, chest, arms and hands. Possible complications of a bulging disc. If you have been diagnosed with a bulging disc in the neck, you might be able to take some precautions to slow down the deterioration and prevent the condition from worsening into a herniated disc.
Symptoms of a Cervical Herniated Disc. A herniated disc in the neck can cause a variety of symptoms in the neck, arm, hand, and fingers, as well as parts of the shoulder. The pain patterns and neurological deficits are largely determined by the location of the herniated disc. 1  See Cervical Spine Anatomy and Neck Pain. A cervical herniated disc is diagnosed when the inner core of a disc in the neck herniates, or leaks out of the disc, and presses on an adjacent nerve root. It usually develops in the 30-to-50-year-old age group.
When a disk is damaged, it may bulge, pushing backwards into the spinal canal. The disk usually bulges toward one side of the canal (either right or left), which is why you’re likely to have pain and tingling on just one side of your body. Your Funny Bone. Your funny bone isn’t a bone at all. It’s the ulnar nerve, which is joined to nerve roots from your spine. “Funny” just refers to the odd, tingling sensation when the nerve is hit. A bulging disk in your neck may be relatively painless. Or it can cause severe pain in your neck, as well as shoulders, chest, and arms. It may also cause numbness or weakness in your arms or fingers. 
Back Pain: Back pain is a symptom of bulging disc in neck. The backbone runs along the neck, as well as the upper and lower back. Sharp lower back pain which is often experienced in the form of sudden current like pain when coughing, sneezing or with any quick movement is also a symptom of bulging disc in neck. Bulging disc in neck is a condition where the outer layer of the disc is intact but the intervertebral tissue of the discs is dislocated. This results in bulging disc in neck. This condition is often compared with herniated disc.