Place the uncooked sweet potatoes in a dish that is both oven and microwave safe, such as a ceramic or glass baking dish. Microwave your potatoes for four minutes and then transfer them to a 450-degree oven and cook for an additional four to five minutes. This makes it easier to peel the sweet potato after baking. You can wrap the oiled potato in foil before placing in the oven so the potato cooks evenly and the moisture and oils stay with the potato. Or, place the oiled potatoes on a cookie sheet or in a pan and bake them at 400 degrees Fahrenheit for 40 to 50 minutes.
SKK. Either microwave or bake. Depending on the size of the potato: In microwave prick with fork to allow steam to escape and microwave for 10 - 15 minutes or until the potato feels soft enought to eat. In oven, also prick with fork and back at 350 for 30 40 minutes. 1 Person agrees.
1 For example, if one large potato takes 10 minutes to cook, two large potatoes would take between 16-17 minutes. 2  If you prefer crispy skinned potatoes, you can cook the potatoes in the microwave for 5-6 minutes, then transfer to a baking sheet and bake in an oven preheated to 400 °F (204 °C) for 20 minutes. 6. Put the plate in the microwave and choose a cooking time. Cooking times will vary depending on the size of the potato and the power of the microwave. Most medium to large potatoes will take between 8-12 minutes to cook at full power.
Place on a microwave-safe plate and cook on high power for three to four minutes per potato. If you are making four potatoes, heat no longer than 12 minutes. Remove the hot baked potatoes using an oven mitt. Slice lengthwise at the top of the potato and fluff with a fork before adding your favorite toppings. 
1 Bake the potatoes: You can bake the potatoes directly on the oven rack, or you can place them a few inches apart on a foil-lined baking sheet. 2  Bake the potatoes for 50 to 60 minutes. 3  Flip them over every 20 minutes or so and check them for doneness by piercing them with a fork. 1 This allows steam to escape from the baking potato. 2  Bake the potatoes: You can bake the potatoes directly on the oven rack, or you can place them a few inches apart on a foil-lined baking sheet. 3
1 If you prefer crispy skinned potatoes, you can cook the potatoes in the microwave for 5-6 minutes, then transfer to a baking sheet and bake in an oven preheated to 400 °F (204 °C) for 20 minutes. 6. Put the plate in the microwave and choose a cooking time. Cooking times will vary depending on the size of the potato and the power of the microwave. Most medium to large potatoes will take between 8-12 minutes to cook at full power.
If you are baking potatoes in the oven, you can rub a small amount of oil on them so that the skin gets nice and crispy. It is not necessary to rub oil on potatoes you are cooking in the microwave oven. Place the potato on a microwave-safe dish. Check the small print on the back of the dish to be sure. I wash the potatoes, poke the holes with a fork, microwave for 4 minutes with a 1,000 watt microwave, then carefully put the potatoes in aluminum foil and wrap them up and allow them to continue steaming in the foil for 5 minutes.
DON’T! You’ll end up with the potato getting steamed in the foil instead of just baked. You may as well just cook it in the microwave. Place the potato directly on the oven rack. Bake for 40 to 60 minutes, depending upon the size of the potato. Potatoes are as hard as a brick when they are raw. 
2. Rub the potatoes with olive oil, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and prick them with the tines of a fork. Place all the potatoes on a microwave-safe dish and microwave at full power for five minutes. Turn them over and microwave for another three to five minutes. Oven-Baked Potatoes. See what to do: How To Bake a Potato in the Oven. Preheat the oven to 425°F. Rub the potatoes with olive oil, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and prick them with the tines of a fork. You can lay them directly on the oven rack or place them on a baking sheet.