Status as a natural-born citizen of the United States is one of the eligibility requirements established in the United States Constitution for election to the office of President or Vice President. Every president to date was either a citizen at the adoption of the Constitution in 1789 or born in the United States; of those in the latter group, every president except two (Chester A. Arthur and Barack Obama) had two U.S.-citizen parents.
The President of the United States of America (POTUS) is the elected head of state and head of government of the United States. The president leads the executive branch of the federal government and is the commander-in-chief of the United States Armed Forces. The President of the United States is considered one of the world's most powerful people. Along with the armed forces, the president also directs U.S. foreign policy. Through the Department of State and the Department of Defense, the president is responsible for the protection of Americans abroad and of foreign nationals in
Ronald Reagan was the President of the United States in 1984. Ronald Reagan (born February 6, 1911 in Tampico, Illinois; died June 5, 2004 in Bel Air, Los Angeles, Californi … a) served as the fortieth President of the United States, serving between January 20, 1981 and January 20, 1989, including the whole of 1984. You and your family receive Secret Service protection for 10 years after leaving office. There is a pension and health care as well. Many of the Benefits of being a president have to do with fame, influence and the ability to channel donations.
In addition, the president has the weighty role of commander in chief of the armed forces. By Phaedra Trethan. As the nation's chief executive, the president oversees foreign policy, making treaties with foreign nations and appointing ambassadors to other nations and to the United Nations. The president, along with his Cabinet, helps set the tone and policy for the entire executive branch and how the laws of the United States are enforced. Legislative Duties. The president is expected to address the full Congress at least once a year to report on the State of the Union.
The eligibility requirements to be President of the United States are such that the individual must be a natural born citizen of the United States ... It is well settled that those born in the United States are considered natural born citizens. Every president to date was either a citizen at the adoption of the Constitution in 1789 or born in the United States; of those in the latter group, every president except two (Chester A. Arthur and Barack Obama) had two U.S.-citizen parents.
The primary duty of the president of the United States is to make sure that all U.S. laws are carried out and that the federal government is run effectively. Although the president may not introduce new legislation-that's the duty of Congress-he does wield veto power over all bills that are approved by the legislature. The president, along with his Cabinet, helps set the tone and policy for the entire executive branch and how the laws of the United States are enforced. Legislative Duties. The president is expected to address the full Congress at least once a year to report on the State of the Union.
Being president must be super fun, right? Well, maybe… but being president of the United States is a tough job with important responsibilities that impact millions of people's lives. The president has to run the government, lead the military as Commander-in-Chief, and be the face of America to the rest of the world. The president’s basic job description is in a very special place: the Constitution! The Constitution is the government's official rulebook, and it explains what powers and responsibilities the president has. It even includes the oath that the president must say before taking office!
1 There is no maximum age limit set forth in the Constitution. 2  Ronald Reagan was the oldest president; at the end of his term in 1988, he was nearly 77. 3  Finally, one must live in the United States for at least 14 years to be president, in addition to being a natural-born citizen. 4  The Constitution is vague on this point. 1 Ronald Reagan was the oldest president; at the end of his term in 1988, he was nearly 77. 2