The three structural forms of bauxite are Gibbsite (Al(OH)3) , Boehmite (AlO(ALO)) oh And (AlO(ALO)). Oh gibbsite is a true aluminium hydroxide And boehmite Böhmite and diaspore are-both-aluminium. Oxide(hydroxides): source://s.http-www.world/aluminium... org productio The bulk of world bauxite production (approximately 85%) is used as feed for the manufacture of alumina via a wet chemical caustic leach method commonly known as the Bayer process.
Report Abuse. Bauxite is an aluminium ore. It consists largely of the Al minerals gibbsite Al(OH)3, boehmite and diaspore AlOOH, together with the iron oxides goethite and hematite, the clay mineral kaolinite and small amounts of anatase TiO2. The bulk of world bauxite production (approximately 85%) is used as feed for the manufacture of alumina via a wet chemical caustic leach method commonly known as the Bayer process.
We know that bauxite is a mineral, and it is the principle ore of aluminum. Bauxite is a mixture, and as such, it has no specific chemical formula. It is, however, composed ma … inly of three minerals, each of which is a compound of aluminum. These minerals are gibbsite Al(OH)3, boehmite γ-AlO(OH), and diaspore α-AlO(OH). + 15 others found this useful. Greg McLucas. 
The principal aluminum hydroxide minerals found in varying proportions with bauxites are gibbsite and the polymorphs boehmite and diaspore. Bauxites are typically classified according to their intended commercial application: abrasive, cement, chemical, metallurgical, refractory, etc. The bulk of world bauxite production (approximately 85%) is used as feed for the manufacture of alumina via a wet chemical caustic leach method commonly known as the Bayer process.
Bauxite is a rock composed mainly of Aluminium Oxide and Aluminium Hydroxide minerals. These might include: Gibbsite, Boehmite and Diaspore. The rock usually includes other materials such as Iron Hydroxide, clay, silt and free Silica. It most often occurs as a residual soil material in tropical and subtropical areas. It is the primary source of Aluminium. 
Bauxite is ore from which aluminium can be extracted. Most bauxite, including Australian bauxites are lateritic, formed by intense weathering of various rock formations. The alumina in lateritic bauxite is mainly in the form of gibbsite, an aluminium oxide trihydrate. Other bauxites contain higher levels of boehmite are called monohydrates and involve significantly higher levels of energy to process. The three structural forms of bauxite are gibbsite, boehmite and diaspore. Gibbsite is a true aluminium hydroxide and boehmite and diaspore are both aluminium-oxide-hydroxides. Extreme lateritic weathering in the Darling Range has resulted in the formation of the trihydrate bauxite Al(OH)3, gibbsite (Refer Figure 1: Typical Darling Range Cross Section)
Bauxite does not have a specific composition. It is a mixture of hydrous aluminum oxides, aluminum hydroxides, clay minerals and insoluble materials such as quartz, hematite, magnetite, siderite and goethite. The aluminum minerals in bauxite can include: gibbsite Al(OH) 3, boehmite AlO(OH), and, diaspore, AlO(OH). Bauxite is typically a soft (H:1-3), white to gray to reddish brown material with a pisolitic structure, earthy luster and a low specific gravity (SG: 2.0-2.5). In the Bayer Process the bauxite is washed in a hot solution of sodium hydroxide which leaches aluminum from the bauxite. The aluminum is precipitated out of solution in the form of aluminum hydroxide, Al(OH) 3. The aluminum hydroxide is then calcined to form alumina, Al 2 O 3.
Bauxite is not a mineral, but rather a group of aluminum oxide s. The term is generally used to describe the economically important mixture of these minerals, which form a mass of the individually classified members of Gibbsite, Boehmite, and Diaspore. Bauxite is mined extensively for its economical value as the principle ore of aluminum. NOTEWORTHY LOCALITIES. Since Bauxite specimens are not well-represented in collections due to their lack of aesthetics, this guide will not list specific localities but will rather list countries that are important producers.
It consists mostly of the minerals gibbsite Al(OH) 3, boehmite γ-AlO(OH) and diaspore α-AlO(OH), mixed with the two iron oxides goethite and haematite, the clay mineral kaolinite and small amounts of anatase TiO 2. In 2009, Australia was the top producer of bauxite with almost one-third of the world's production, followed by China, Brazil, India, and Guinea. Although aluminium demand is rapidly increasing, known reserves of its bauxite ore are sufficient to meet the worldwide demands for aluminium for many centuries.