Types of business degrees to consider. The areas in which you can earn a degree to pursue a career in business could be almost infinite, so it’s important to narrow it down. Here are some common specializations worth considering that can help you decide which career is right for you. A Complete Breakdown of the Different Types of Business Degrees. By Grant Tilus on 10/7/2013 Add a Comment. Deciding between the different types of business degrees is kind of like choosing which entree to start with at an all-you-can-eat buffet.
A general business degree is an excellent choice for students who know they want to work in business, but aren't sure what types of position they want to pursue after graduation. A business degree could lead to a job in management, finance, marketing, human resources, or a number of other areas. There are many different types of business degrees. Earning one of these degrees can help you to improve your general business knowledge as well as your leadership skills. The most popular business degrees can help you advance your career and secure positions that you cannot get with a high school diploma.
Business management is a broad field that trains people for managerial roles in technology, retail, education, government and other sectors. Business management degrees enable you to acquire a mix of technical and soft skills. There are a number of business schools that offer business management degrees to students. The program offering will vary from school to school, so you will need to get in touch with the school to find out exactly what degree programs they are offering.
The master of business administration (MBA or M.B.A.) is a master's degree in business administration (management). The MBA is a terminal degree and a professional degree. Accreditation bodies specifically for MBA programs ensure consistency and quality of education. Business schools in many countries offer programs tailored to full-time, part-time, executive, and distance learning students, many with specialized concentrations.
In addition to the traditional business majors of business administration or business management, business degrees are also offered in a variety of specialized disciplines as separate majors within the business college, such as majors in finance, accounting or entrepreneurship. Adding a business degree to your credentials might help you move into higher levels of management or switch your career trajectory altogether. Learn more about the types of business degrees available to find out which direction in your business education is the best course to take.
If you're interested in a bachelor's degree, you may want to consider a Bachelor of Science degree program in business management. Or, you may want to choose a business administration bachelor's degree program that has a concentration in business management. 
The Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA or B.B.A.) is a bachelor's degree in commerce and business administration. 
1 Doctorate Degree in Business Administration-A doctorate or PhD in Business Administration is the highest business degree that can be earned. 2  This option is best for students who are interested in teaching or pursuing field research. 3  A doctorate degree generally requires four to six years of study. Business administration involves the performance, management, and administrative functions of business operations. Many companies have multiple departments and personnel that can fall under the business administration heading.
Here's what you'll do in a career in business administration. Business administration is a wide field that incorporates many types of management positions. From major corporations to independent businesses, every operation needs skilled administrators in order to succeed. Motivated, organized personalities will thrive in business, where environments are often high-powered
The Business major can lead to jobs in multiple sectors, including retail, education, government and private business. Important skills, such as clear communication, decision making and organization, can set the cornerstone for a successful business career and higher salary. Here you will find a list of popular career choices for a degree in Business Administration. Accountant – An accountant is a person who is in charge of maintaining, editing and reporting private or public financial records in accordance with governmental regulation