Mother of Qais) is a town in northern Jordan principally known for its proximity to the ruins of the ancient Gadara. It lies in the Bani Kinanah Department and Irbid Governorate in the extreme northwest of the country, near Jordan's borders with Israel and Syria. In the original version, in the earlier Gospel of Mark, the incident is set in 'the territory of the Gerasenes', or Gerasa, around 50km southeast of the Sea of Galilee. The author of the Matthew Gospel appears to have moved the setting to Gadara to make it more plausible.
GADARA [SMITH] a strong city situated near the river Hieromax, six miles southeast of the Sea of Galilee, over against Scythopolis and Tiberias, and 16 Roman miles distant from each of those places. Josephus calls it the capital of Peraea. The ruins of this city, now called Um Keis, are about two miles in circumference. The city of Gadara is represented today by the ruins of Umm Qeis on the heights south of el-Chummeh--the hot springs in the Yarmuk valley--about 6 miles Southeast of the Sea of Galilee.
No one is sure where this happened or where Gadara is or was. The present town of Gadara is 30 miles from the water. That would be a long way for pigs to run into the water and to make it worse, the land between modern day Gadara and the water is flat-no cliffs-and no caves.
GADARA [ISBE]. 1. Country of the Gadarenes: This city is not named in Scripture, but the territory belonging to it is spoken of as chora ton Gadarenon, country of the Gadarenes (Mt 8:28). In the parallel passages (Mk 5:1; Lk 8:26,37) we read: chora ton Gerasenon country of the Gerasenes.. The city of Gadara is represented today by the ruins of Umm Qeis on the heights south of el-Chummeh--the hot springs in the Yarmuk valley--about 6 miles Southeast of the Sea of Galilee.
Gadara in Smiths Bible Dictionary. A strong city situated near the river Hieromax, six miles southeast of the Sea of Galilee, over against Scythopolis and Tiberias, and 16 Roman miles distant from each of those places. The Gadara to the E (H10 on the Map) was at the S end of Decapolis. There was an aqueduct at Gadara which ran for more than 30 miles, with pipes hewn of solid basalt, of a diameter like our drain pipes, and fitting each other with flanges. There was a Roman bridge at Gadara which was the first to span Syrian rivers.
Gordon Franz. The account in the Synoptic gospels of the demoniacs of Gadara is a pivotal event in the Galilean ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ. This event is recorded in all three Synoptic gospels (Matt. 8:28-34; Mark 5:1-20; Luke 8:26-39)
Umm Qeis (Muqeis). Gadara was a Graeco-oriental city located south of the Yarmuk River with its territory reaching beyond Yarmuk even to the Sea of Galilee. It is identified with the ruins of Umm Qeis. In Hellenistic times it was one of the centers of Greek culture in the Transjordan. The Gadara to the E (H10 on the Map) was at the S end of Decapolis. There was an aqueduct at Gadara which ran for more than 30 miles, with pipes hewn of solid basalt, of a diameter like our drain pipes, and fitting each other with flanges. There was a Roman bridge at Gadara which was the first to span Syrian rivers.
The city of Gadara is represented today by the ruins of Umm Qeis on the heights south of el-Chummeh--the hot springs in the Yarmuk valley--about 6 miles Southeast of the Sea of Galilee. History: The name Gadara appears to be Semitic It is still heard in Jedur, which attaches to the ancient rock tombs, with sarcophagi, to the East of the present ruins. They are closed by carved stone doors, and are used as storehouses for grain, and also as dwellings by the inhabitants.
gad'-a-ra (Gadara): 1. Country of the Gadarenes: This city is not named in Scripture, but the territory belonging to it is spoken of as chora ton Gadarenon, country of the Gadarenes (Matthew 8:28). In the parallel passages (Mark 5:1 Luke 8:26, 37) we read: chora ton Gerasenon country of the Gerasenes.. That there was a second Gadara seems certain, and it may be intended in some of the passages referred to above. It is probably represented by the modern Jedur, not far from es-Salt (Buhl, Buhl, Geographic des alten Palastina, 255; Guthe). Josephus gives Pella as the northern boundary of Peraea (BJ, III, iii, 3).