Phone Bill Utility Factors. Because your phone bill is usually considered a utility, you can likely use it to verify proof of residence with an agency that requires a utility bill with your name and street address as proof. Although the designation is essentially semantics, a phone bill is also considered a telecommunications bill. A mobile or wireless bill isn't normally considered a utility, just your landline.
Wikimedia Commons has media related to Public utilities. Companies portal. Public utilities (just utilities in British English) are typically defined as companies that supply what are considered basic (essential) services to homes and businesses, such as electricity, gas, telephone, water and sewer connections. 
Land telephone services are also considered to be public utilities. The invoices these telephone companies send out are utility bills. Like electric and water companies, local telephone companies provide a service to the public at large. Gas and electricity bills are considered to be utility bills under the legal definition of the term. These services are often provided by the same local utility, though some property owners may only use one or the other to power their systems.
Gas and Electricity. Gas and electricity bills are considered to be utility bills under the legal definition of the term. These services are often provided by the same local utility, though some property owners may only use one or the other to power their systems. Water. power plant image by MAXFX from Fotolia.com. Monthly water bills are considered to be utility bills. Water is provided through public utility companies, which are commonly run through city and local governments. Water companies are responsible for purifying the water to make it fit for human consumption
A phone bill is usually considered a utility bill. Online utility bill organizing service MyEnergy includes phone bills among its Types of Utility Bills.. Although the designation is essentially semantics, a phone bill is also considered a telecommunications bill. A mobile or wireless bill isn't normally considered a utility, just your landline.
No it is not. Utility bills would be water, electric and gas. Cable is an extra that you don't 'need.'   : Your answer may be correct but part of your answer is bad.  : … Cable is an extra that you don't 'need.'  : Someone tell the Amish since they don't need electricity. Answer     Yes, utility bills are classed as unsecured debts but if you are struggling with debts then it is important that you class these as a priority debt.
- So if your telephone is a-useful article or device-I would conclude that it is a utility. Yes, as is gas, water and electricity. Answer Although use of the telephone is considered part of your overall utility expense, in business telephone expenses are generally tracked separately from utilities on a profit and loss statement. 
A utility bill would be a bill for your water, electric, gas, etc. 