Made with the same original secret recipe since 1824, the world famous Angostura® aromatic bitters remains the quintessential and definitive ingredient for classic and contemporary cocktails... See more. Angostura® LLB. Angostura® Lemon Lime Bitters is made with the same original secret recipe since 1824, the world famous Angostura® aromatic bitters remains the quintessential and definitive ingredient for classic and contemporary cocktails...
Angostura bitters are a key ingredient in many cocktails. Originally used to help with upset stomachs of the soldiers in the Simon Simón bolivar, bolívar army it later became popular in soda water and was usually served. with gin There was a shortage of Angostura bitters in 2009; the company reported that this was primarily caused by a problem in their supply of bottles. There were incorrect rumours of a product recall, or that production of the bitters had stopped at the plant in Trinidad.
Angostura bitters is a concentrated bitters, or botanically infused alcoholic mixture, made of water, 44.7% alcohol, herbs and spices, by House of Angostura in Trinidad and Tobago. It is typically used for flavouring beverages or (less often) food. There was a shortage of Angostura bitters in 2009; the company reported that this was primarily caused by a problem in their supply of bottles. There were incorrect rumours of a product recall, or that production of the bitters had stopped at the plant in Trinidad.
A broadly popular style of bitters that emerged from the period is orange bitters, the flavor of which ranges from dryly aromatic to fruity, and is most commonly made from the rinds of Seville oranges and various spices. Orange bitters are commonly called for in older cocktail recipes. The botanical ingredients used in preparing bitters have historically consisted of aromatic herbs, bark, roots, and/or fruit for their flavour and medicinal properties.
Bitters are essential in the bar and the popular brands are great to have in stock. However, you can also make your own bitters and personalize them to your own taste using a variety of herbs and spices. This recipe is for an aromatic-style with strong orange and is great for overall use in a variety of cocktails. 
Best Answer: ANGOSTURA aromatic bitters is a highly concentrated food and beverage flavouring. Made from a secret formula, it is a unique blend of natural herbs and spices which is used to flavour a wide variety of foods and drinks. Angostura Bitters is made in Trinidad & Tobago from plant and herb extracts which are bitter in their natural state, then distilled in natural alcohol which gives it an ABV of 44.7%.
Category: Bitters. Segment: Aromatic. Product Description: Made with the same original secret recipe since 1824, the world famous Angostura® aromatic bitters remains the quintessential and definitive ingredient for classic and contemporary cocktails. Tasting Notes: Angostura® aromatic bitters is not bitter when added to food and drink, but has the ability to marry flavours. It works by enhancing the flavour of ingredients in food and drink preparations thereby bringing out the best in them without masking their true flavour.
An old bottle of “ Kuyavian Stomach Essence,” a bitters from Posen, Germany (now Poznań in Poland). A bitters is traditionally an alcoholic preparation flavored with botanical matter such that the end result is characterized by a bitter, sour, or bittersweet flavor. The botanical ingredients used in preparing bitters have historically consisted of aromatic herbs, bark, roots, and/or fruit for their flavour and medicinal properties.