Routinely staining your deck will help protect your deck but it is not uncommon for pressure treated decking to split, crack, warp, and turn gray in a few years. Cedar and redwood decking prices range from about $1.25 to $2.00 per linear foot for 5/4x6 stock. Redwood is commonly available on the west coast but is scarce in the eastern United States. Higher grade materials and long lengths will cost a premium. With over 100 brands to choose from there is a wide range of prices for vinyl and composite decking. The higher end name brands usually cost between $3.00 to $4.00 per linear foot. The big box stores offer economy composite materials for about half the price.
1 In addition, unless you want the wood to weather to a pale gray, you’ll need to oil the deck every one to two years. 2  An ipe deck can cost $23-30 per square foot. 3  Composite-The old style of composite decking is a blend of wood fiber and plastic which has a brushed, matte surface. 1 Composite railing ranges from $15-$30 per linear foot before installation costs. 2  Cable rail-Cable rail is a wonderful solution for properties with a view. 3  The slender metal cables run horizontally, and take up so little visual space that you can see the trees, mountains, or ocean beyond.
1 A capped composite deck can cost $20-28 per square foot. 2  Cedar or redwood-Cedar or redwood are good mid-range options in that they cost less than tropical hardwoods or composite, yet last 15 to 20 years. 1 Composite railing ranges from $15-$30 per linear foot before installation costs. 2  Cable rail-Cable rail is a wonderful solution for properties with a view. 3  The slender metal cables run horizontally, and take up so little visual space that you can see the trees, mountains, or ocean beyond.
1 An ipe deck can cost $23-30 per square foot. 2  Composite-The old style of composite decking is a blend of wood fiber and plastic which has a brushed, matte surface. 3  While it requires periodic cleaning to look good, it costs less than newer types of capped composite which need little care. 1 Composite railing ranges from $15-$30 per linear foot before installation costs. 2  Cable rail-Cable rail is a wonderful solution for properties with a view. 3  The slender metal cables run horizontally, and take up so little visual space that you can see the trees, mountains, or ocean beyond.
In most regions of the country, redwood and cedar each cost at least three times more than pressure-treated lumber. For example, I recently bought an 8-ft.-long red cedar 2 x 6 and paid nearly $4 per linear foot--ouch! Both species are considerably less expensive on the West Coast. In California, for instance, a B-grade redwood 2 x 6 costs about $2.35 per linear foot. Redwood and cedar require an annual power washing and coat of finish every three to four years. Prices vary because there are so many different companies, but composites are typically less expensive than plastic lumber. For example, for 5/4 x 6-­in. decking, expect to pay about $2.50 per linear foot for composites, and $3 per linear foot for plastic lumber. Most composite decking and plastic lumber manufacturers also offer a line of handrails, balusters, fascias and other decorative trim
High Quality. The average cost of the highest quality of cedar decking is $6.56 per linear foot. The minimum cost of the highest quality of cedar decking is $5.43 per linear foot. The maximum cost of the highest quality of cedar decking is $7.70 per linear foot. This includes treated cedar decking. The minimum cost of mid-grade quality cedar decking is $4.51 per linear foot. The maximum cost of mid-grade cedar decking is $6.59
Mid-Grade. The average cost of mid-grade cedar decking is $5.62 per linear foot. This includes treated cedar decking. The minimum cost of mid-grade quality cedar decking is $4.51 per linear foot. The maximum cost of mid-grade cedar decking is $6.59 per linear foot.
The average cost of basic cedar decking is $4.63 per linear foot. The minimum cost of basic cedar decking is $3.89 per linear foot. The maximum cost of basic cedar decking is $5.39 per linear foot. This includes treated cedar decking. The minimum cost of mid-grade quality cedar decking is $4.51 per linear foot. The maximum cost of mid-grade cedar decking is $6.5