Muscle cells have evolved to carry out one highly specialized function — contraction. Muscle contractions must occur quickly and repetitively, and they must occur through long distances and with enough force to move large loads. A myofiber is packed with myofibrils, bundles of filaments that extend the length of the cell. Myofibrils are further subdivided into alternating light and dark bands, which are aligned along the length of the muscle cell, giving the myofiber a striated appearance in the light microscope.
Up to the eight-cell stage, all of the cells are identical. They are called embryonic stem cells. It is possible for embryonic stem cells to develop into any other specialised type of cell that the growing embryo needs-for example, nerve cells, blood cells and muscle cells. However, once the embryonic stem cells become specialised, they can't change into any other type of cell.
Within muscle tissue are three distinct groups of tissues: skeletal muscle, cardiac muscle, and smooth muscle. Each of these tissue groups is made of specialized cells that give the tissue its unique properties. Skeletal muscle is the most common and widely distributed muscle tissue in the body, making up around 40% of the body’s total mass.
A muscle cell is specialized to contract and relax in unison with other muscle cells in a muscle tissue when you want to move a certain muscle(controlled by your cerebrum). I hope this answers your question! Ciao! Making the world better, one answer at a time. 
Switching genes on and off. Cells become specialised because the genes that are not required are switched off. Only the genes needed to make a particular type of cell work are switched on. So muscle cells only have the genes needed to make muscle cell proteins switched on. They are called embryonic stem cells. It is possible for embryonic stem cells to develop into any other specialised type of cell that the growing embryo needs-for example, nerve cells, blood cells and muscle cells. However, once the embryonic stem cells become specialised, they can't change into any other type of cell.
Muscle Tissue Muscle cells are highly specialized for contractions. Such contractions may result in the movement of the whole body or a portion of it, if the muscles are attached to a movable part of the skeleton. 
A skeletal muscle comprises a bundle of muscle cells, or myofibers (Figure 18-26a). A typical muscle cell is cylindrical, large (1 – 40 mm in length and 10 – 50 μm in width), and multinucleated (containing as many as 100 nuclei). A myofiber is packed with myofibrils, bundles of filaments that extend the length of the cell. Myofibrils are further subdivided into alternating light and dark bands, which are aligned along the length of the muscle cell, giving the myofiber a striated appearance in the light microscope.
Skeletal muscle structure. Different types of muscle tissue. An organism's muscle tissue is composed of muscle cells. Multi-unit smooth muscle cells operate independently and single-unit, or visceral, smooth muscle cells operate together as a unit. Muscle mass can be gained artificially from injections of performance-enhancing drugs and hormones. 
A myocyte (also known as a muscle cell) is the type of cell found in muscle tissue. Myocytes are long, tubular cells that develop from myoblasts to form muscles in a process known as myogenesis. There are various specialized forms of myocytes: cardiac, skeletal, and smooth muscle cells, with various properties. The striated cells of cardiac and skeletal muscles are referred to as muscle fibers. 
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Cowleya. Confidence votes 10.3K. Muscle cells, like all cells, are specialised to carry out their specific functions. Muscle cells need relatively large numbers of mitochondria. This is because they respire more than most other types of cell, in order to release the energy for muscle contraction, and hence movement. 