The SCV Series-an All-Inclusive Selection of Check Valves. In order to ensure safety, designers rely on air, gravity, and anti-siphon check valves to automatically control a fluid's directional flow-gas or liquid. This functionality helps to prevent backflow and ensure proper operation by end users. The SCV valve's patented silicone membrane is closed in stand-by position and the seal mechanism avoids a retrograde flow even at the lowest back flow rates of 0.1 ml/h. This feature helps guarantee: 1  Protection of a line in case of back pressure caused by situations such as pinched tube or closed roller clamp.
Base SCV position The position of the one SCV valve that comes in base equipment for 6030 and 7030 Standard Tractors is in position 1, closest to the hydraulic block on the left-hand size. The maximum number of rear-mounted SCVs is four. Positions 1 and 2 are located on the left-hand side of the hydraulic block, with positions 3 and 4 located on the right. (Four rear SCV valves are available on premium models only.).
The DFT® Model SCV® is a corrosion resistant, dependable, versatile and economical spring-assisted, in-line check valve for a wide range of applications. Whether the fluid is liquid, gas or steam, the SCV® provides tight shut-off and protects other equipment in the system from water hammer. 
﻿Valve World Cover Story-Volume 18, Issue 3, April 2014 ﻿. Southern California Valve (SCV) was established in 1972 in Santa Fe Springs, California as a full inline ﬁeld service provider for valve maintenance and modiﬁcations for the oil & gas, pulp & paper, ... (more). (more). Since 1972, Southern California Valve has been committed to manufacturing quality flow control products for the Power, Paper, and Pulp, Oil & Gas, and Petro Chemical industries.
This is a video to show you how simple it is to replace damaged SCV valves on a Toyota D4D engine. Damaged valves can cause loss of power from the engine, which was my case. In the Northern Europe, the diesel in the wintertime is often dry, so it wont oil the fuelpump as much as requested. Thats usually the main reason for trouble with the valves. First, remove the expansion tank, and then screw loose the valves. Unpluck the cables, tap them out with out with a screwdriver, oil the o-rings on the new ones, and put them gently in, then knock them carefully at the top with a hammer to get them in the last bit. (Yes, this is a video me and my dad made.
Deluxe (3-detent) mechanical SCVs have a control at the top of the rear SCV to select one of three detent positions: Flow control: 1  Continuous detent (hydraulic motor use) - Operator moves control lever to extend or retract position and releases it. 
Positions of additional SCVs The more SCVs that are ordered or added change the position of the SCV valves. The SCV positions read from left to right. The maximum number of rear-mounted SCVs is four. Positions 1 and 2 are located on the left-hand side of the hydraulic block, with positions 3 and 4 located on the right. (Four rear SCV valves are available on premium models only.).
Description: Series SCV Service Check Valves are used in heating applications between boiler piping and system components to facilitate the servicing of components under pressure, such as thermal expansion tanks and float vents, without draining the piping. 