Once you’ve decided a Roth IRA is your best retirement choice, the decision to convert comes down to your current year’s tax bill. That’s because when you move money from a pre-tax retirement account such as a traditional IRA or 401(k) to a Roth, you have to pay taxes on that income. It makes sense: if you had put money in a Roth originally, the taxes would have been due at the time you contributed. A Roth conversion is most beneficial when:
Tax Rates. The money you transfer from a traditional IRA to a Roth is added to your other income in the year of the conversion. It is taxed at your highest tax bracket, or marginal tax rate. As an example, assume you are in the 28 percent tax bracket. The converted money will be taxed at a rate of at least 28 percent. You can move funds between multiple IRA accounts without any tax liability as long as the accounts are both traditional IRAs or both Roth IRAs. There are tax consequences when you transfer money from a traditional IRA to a Roth.
Roth IRA Conversion Taxes. When you convert from a Traditional IRA to a Roth IRA you pay income tax on the contributions. The taxable amount that is converted is added to your income taxes and your regular income rate is applied to your total income. With the cap removed high income earners can now convert as long as they pay the appropriate tax on the conversion. There is no 10% early withdrawal penalty if the funds move from the Traditional IRA to the Roth IRA in a 60 day window.
However, there are income restrictions with a Roth IRA. For tax year 2014, you may not be eligible to contribute to a Roth IRA if your income is over $129,000. That goes up to $131,000 for 2015. For married couples filing jointly, those limits are $191,000 in 2014 and $193,000 in 2014. In addition, if your annual income falls into what’s called the “phase out” range, you can only make prorated Roth IRA contributions. That range is from $116,000 to $131,000 for a single filer, and $183,000 to $193,000 for joint filers.
Should you wish to convert your Roth IRA back to a Traditional IRA, the process is known as recharacterization. The deadline to recharacterize Roth IRA conversion contributions to a Traditional IRA is generally October 15 if you file your federal income tax return (or file for an extension) on time. Anyone can convert their eligible IRA assets to a Roth IRA regardless of income or marital status. Prior to 2010, only those account owners who had a modified adjusted gross income below $100,000 were eligible to convert. Despite its advantages, Roth may not be the preferred option for all investors.
One of the primary benefits of using a Roth IRA is that you don't pay income tax when you withdraw funds in retirement. Unfortunately not everyone meets IRS standards to contribute to a Roth IRA. The primary reason individuals are not allowed to contribute is because their incomes exceed the Roth IRA income limits. With the cap removed high income earners can now convert as long as they pay the appropriate tax on the conversion. There is no 10% early withdrawal penalty if the funds move from the Traditional IRA to the Roth IRA in a 60 day window.
Not a problem. Converting to a Roth IRA is easier than ever. You can transfer some or all of your existing balance in a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA, regardless of income (but income-eligibility restrictions still apply to current-year contributions). That’s because when you move money from a pre-tax retirement account such as a traditional IRA or 401(k) to a Roth, you have to pay taxes on that income. It makes sense: if you had put money in a Roth originally, the taxes would have been due at the time you contributed. A Roth conversion is most beneficial when:
1. You might save on taxes in the long run. When you convert some or all of the money in your traditional IRA to a Roth, you have to pay income tax on the amount that year. Even so, converting could be smart if you end up in a higher marginal tax bracket in later years or if tax rates rise overall. 
You can convert your traditional IRA to a Roth IRA by: 1  Rollover – You receive a distribution from a traditional IRA and contribute it to a Roth IRA within 60 days after the distribution (the distribution check is payable to you); 
The IRS rules have changed and there is no longer an income cap in place. With the cap removed high income earners can now convert as long as they pay the appropriate tax on the conversion. There is no 10% early withdrawal penalty if the funds move from the Traditional IRA to the Roth IRA in a 60 day window.