How to Properly Inject Insulin. 1  If you're not using pre-loaded syringes, before you fill the syringe, pull the plunger back and push it back in a couple of times to loosen it and make it easier to handle. 2  Choose a site and inject without removing the needle or re-inserting.
Bruising can be a common occurrence when you get facial injections. With sensitive skin areas and veins, no doctor can guarantee that you will not bruise. To prevent bruising, you need to be prepared, so stop taking omega-3, vitamin E or flaxseed supplements at least one week prior to your procedures.
Bruising occurs when the blood vessels break under the skin, usually as a result of a fall or a blow to the body. Bruising may also occur after surgery or after cosmetic treatments, such as Botox or Juvederm injections.
You can try taking two supplements that have been shown to prevent bruising, such as arnica and bromelain (one to try is VitaMedica's Arnica Anti-Bruise Kit, (Vitamedica.com, $36). You can take one dose of arnica the morning of your appointment, and then immediately after your injections.
How to Avoid Injection-Site Bruising. Rotate your injection sites regularly. Use each site once and then move to another for the next injection. Using a site more than once a week or so can cause bruising as the tissues heal from the previous puncture and
The issue of bruising with injections is a tricky one because the problem does not show up consistently. A person could bruise one day for no apparent reason and then for several days have no problems. To prevent bruising after injections, it is sometimes helpful to let go of the pinch before removing the needle. This helps to disperse the fluid more evenly throughout the tissues and may lessen the chance of bruising.
How to Properly Inject Insulin. 1  If you're not using pre-loaded syringes, before you fill the syringe, pull the plunger back and push it back in a couple of times to loosen it and make it easier to handle. 2  Then insert it straight into the bottle and fill, removing when done.
I also like to apply arnica cream to the injection areas to help reduce bruising or swelling. Bromelain is a pineapple-based enzyme that also helps to reduce inflammation and bruising. You can take bromelain two to three days prior to your injections and continue for one week after.