My recurrant upper FRONT neck pain has been going on for years. Now it seems to go together with pain in the back of my neck mostly left side. I get an aching feeling on the left upper neck I guess where their could by lymph node or the caratid artery. When I mention neck pain to my Dr. he's always focussing on my anxiety and talking about meds. He does feel the area. with the jaw clenching i clench my left side more then my right, why who knows i just do. and its obvious on my full face xray as to which side the jaw joint is more worn. so it can be the case. i get tension on the left side of neck and down the front of my neck and under my chin.
Picture of the Carotid Artery. © 2014 WebMD, LLC. All rights reserved. The carotid arteries are major blood vessels in the neck that supply blood to the brain, neck, and face. There are two carotid arteries, one on the right and one on the left. In the neck, each carotid artery branches into two divisions: 1  The internal carotid artery supplies blood to the brain. 
Best Answer: It's not stupid. It is not wearing down. It may be surrounding tissue that is hurting, however if you are certain it is your artery you should consult your doctor. I don't wish to alarm you but there can be serious reasons for the pain. If the pain increases or you develop a headache, dizziness or weakness call an ambulance. Why might my carotid artery hurt and how do I fix it? I've been doing a lot of cardio lately, and my carotid artery has been hurting lately.
Describe your symptoms better, if at all possible. My best guess would be it is actually a muscle in the neck. Try turning your head left to right. If turning your head hurts, its most likely the sternocleidomastoid muscle. The transverse jugular vein goes across, its not really on one side. Check with your doctor. EMT · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 2. Thumbs down.
I have pain on the left side of my neck. When I prop on my left side I hurt in my chest, hard to breath, and my neck and shoulder hurt. I change on to my right side and no pain. Could it be a artery blocked or not. I have had a 4 bypass heart surgery. Have pain in the side of my neck that gets more intense as I exercise or as the day goes along. It runs along my artery and my pilar seems to be faster. It really hurts and at times the pain radiates down my shoulder. It is on both sides of neck.
Carotid Artery Pain in Left Side of Neck. The carotid artery pain in left side of neck means (if this is the case) that there may be carotid artery disease which is when the arteries that supply the brain (its front) with oxygenated blood, get narrowed. When the carotid arteries get dilated or distended the carotidynia occurs. It has 3 types: classic, migrainous and arteriosclerotic, and all of them lead to pain in left side of neck, as well as to face, head or ear pain.
It was easy for me to accept the pain in the back of my neck is tension but with it mostly being on one side and the upper neck pain also makes me think it's a tumor, artery problem, even heart problem. I also get racing heart and chest pains. Also been told was anxiety... with the jaw clenching i clench my left side more then my right, why who knows i just do. and its obvious on my full face xray as to which side the jaw joint is more worn. so it can be the case. i get tension on the left side of neck and down the front of my neck and under my chin.
Pain and stiffness. Pain and stiffness are the most common symptoms of neck problems. You may feel pain in the middle or on either side of you neck, but it may also stretch to your shoulder and shoulder blade or to your upper chest. If you have tension headaches, the pain often travels to the back of your head, and sometimes behind your eye or even into your ear.