The Age of Mammals Mural. Rudolph F. Zallinger’s great mural The Age of Mammals is the centerpiece for the Hall of Mammalian Evolution at the Yale Peabody Museum. For information, contact peabody.permissions@yale.edu. Adapted from A Guide to The Age of Mammals in the Peabody Museum of Natural History, Yale University, 2nd edition, by J.H. Ostrom, L.J. Hickey, D.M. Schankler, B.H. Tiffney and S.L. Wing.
During the Cenozoic, mammals proliferated from a few small, simple, generalized forms into a diverse collection of terrestrial, marine, and flying animals, giving this period its other name, the Age of Mammals, despite the fact that birds still outnumbered mammals two to one. The Cenozoic is just as much the age of savannas, the age of co-dependent flowering plants and insects, and the age of birds.
Mammals appeared on the earth long before the extinction of the dinosaurs; in fact, dinosaurs and mammals originated within 10 million years of each other, in the late Triassic about 200 million years ago. At the end of the Cretaceous, 65 million years ago, not only did the dinosaurs disappear completely, but so did flying reptiles (pterosaurs), and marine reptiles (ichthyosaurs and plesiosaurs). In fact, between 60 and 80% of all animal species, including many marine forms, disappeared.
Age of Mammals. Age of Mammals tells an epic evolutionary story that spans 65 million years! But its theme can be distilled into just six words: Continents move. Climates change. Mammals evolve. They’re six loaded words, however.
From Williamson (1996). For a reconstruction, see the figure below -- it is climbing down a branch near the top center. The first 10 million years of the age of mammals. Mammals appear first in the late Triassic, at about the same time as dinosaurs. Throughout the Mesozoic, most mammals were small, fed on insects and lead a nocturnal life, whereas dinosaurs were the dominant forms of life on land
The Cenozoic is sometimes called the Age of Mammals, because the largest land animals have been mammals during that time. This is a misnomer for several reasons. First, the history of mammals began long before the Cenozoic began. Second, the diversity of life during the Cenozoic is far wider than mammals. The Cenozoic could have been called the Age of Flowering Plants or the Age of Insects or the Age of Teleost Fish or the Age of Birds just as accurately. The Cenozoic (65.5 million years ago to present) is divided into three periods: the Paleogene (65.5 to 23.03 million years ago), Neogene (23.03 to 2.6 million years ago) and the Quaternary (2.6 million years ago to present).
The Cenozoic Era is the most recent of the three major subdivisions of animal history. The other two are the Mesozoic and Paleozoic Eras. The Cenozoic spans only about 65 million years, from the end of the Cretaceous Period and the extinction of non-avian dinosaurs to the present. The Cenozoic (65.5 million years ago to present) is divided into three periods: the Paleogene (65.5 to 23.03 million years ago), Neogene (23.03 to 2.6 million years ago) and the Quaternary (2.6 million years ago to present).
Age of Mammals features a total of 240 specimens, including 38 articulated mammal skeletons, illustrating to visitors the wondrous diversity of mammal life as it's evolved over the past 65 million years. Age of Mammals tells an epic evolutionary story that spans 65 million years! But its theme can be distilled into just six words: Continents move. Climates change. Mammals evolve. They’re six loaded words, however.
©1993 Peabody Museum of Natural History, Yale University. All rights reserved. The Age of Mammals, a mural by Rudolph F. Zallinger. ©1966, 1975, 1989, 1991, 2000 Peabody Museum of Natural History, Yale University, New Haven, Connecticut, USA. All rights reserved. For information, contact peabody.permissions@yale.edu. Adapted from A Guide to The Age of Mammals in the Peabody Museum of Natural History, Yale University, 2nd edition, by J.H. Ostrom, L.J. Hickey, D.M. Schankler, B.H. Tiffney and S.L. Wing.
Age of Mammals. The Cenozoic Era, from 65 million years ago to today, is the age of mammals and flowering plants and is marked by global cooling. The extinction of the dinosaurs allowed mammals to diversify and grow in size during the Cenozoic. Early horses, such as this Mesohippus celer, stood about half a meter high at the shoulders. 