While these previous studies focused on how emotion affects memory for emotionally arousing stimuli, in their arousal-biased competition theory, Mather and Sutherland (2011) argue that how arousal influences memory for non-emotional stimuli depends on the priority of those stimuli at the time of the arousal. An interesting issue in the study of the emotion-memory relationship is whether our emotions are influenced by our behavioral reaction to them, and whether this reaction—in the form of expression or suppression of the emotion—might affect what we remember about an event.
-This article explains how emotions can distort memory. 2. Affect of Mood and Emotion. -This article explains the different effects that mood and emotion have on memory. 3. Brain Structure Video. -This video demonstration what structures in the brain are affected by emotion. 4. Stress and Memory-. -This video displays how a stressful mood can have a negative effect on memory. 5. Interaction of Regions in the Brain. - This article describes the interactions of the amygdala and hippocampus during emotional situations.
Notwithstanding this study, however, it does seem clear that, in some circumstances and for some types of stimuli, at least, the emotional attributes of a stimulus do affect the way we perceive it and process it-that is, the encoding of the memory. Another aspect of emotion is mood-your emotional state at the time of encoding or retrieving. There has been quite a lot of research on the effect of mood on memory. It is clear that mood affects what is noticed and encoded.
However, as with emotional content, we cannot simply say that emotional state affects memory. The nature of the emotion being felt is also important. And this, too, is not straightforward. We cannot simply say, for example, that anxiety impairs memory and happiness improves it. Another aspect of emotion is mood-your emotional state at the time of encoding or retrieving. There has been quite a lot of research on the effect of mood on memory. It is clear that mood affects what is noticed and encoded.
“1. It builds long-term memory. The more intensely that you engage the emotions, the longer you’ll recall what you have learned. In fact, what you remember most from your childhood are your lowest lows and your highest highs. 2.
To gain a better perspective of the link between emotion and memory and their dependence on each other, we dig deeper into how these two correlate. How Emotions Affect Our Memories. There are varied factors that come into play when considering the case of how emotions affect our memories. Let's first draw an outline on how an emotion controls our memory, as and when a scenario presents itself. The hippocampus is an important part of the brain that behaves like an organizer that separates the memory into different areas of the brain meant for permanent storage, while also being able to tap into these memories upon recollection.
How Do Emotions Affect Memory. The human brain is a fascinating organ where its labyrinthine structure has secret passages that scientists are still trying to uncover. We find out in particular how memory influences the way we store, dismiss and retrieve information based on how we feel. The hippocampus is an important part of the brain that behaves like an organizer that separates the memory into different areas of the brain meant for permanent storage, while also being able to tap into these memories upon recollection.
Emotion can have a powerful impact on memory. Numerous studies have shown that the most vivid autobiographical memories tend to be of emotional events, which are likely to be recalled more often and with more clarity and detail than neutral events. An interesting issue in the study of the emotion-memory relationship is whether our emotions are influenced by our behavioral reaction to them, and whether this reaction—in the form of expression or suppression of the emotion—might affect what we remember about an event.
However, accurate expression of emotion does seem to require considerable expertise (if the emotion is not, in fact, being felt) - people are very good at distinguishing false expressions of emotion. The way people go about controlling their reactions to emotional events does seem to affect their memory of the event. People shown a video of an emotional event and instructed not to let their emotions show were found to have a poorer memory for what was said and done than did those who were given no such instructions. Another aspect of emotion is mood-your emotional state at the time of encoding or retrieving. There has been quite a lot of research on the effect of mood on memory. It is clear that mood affects what is noticed and encoded.