Frances Swaine, partner and head of the human rights department at Leigh Day, has recently successfully obtained compensation from a holiday company on behalf of a young, severely disabled woman in a claim that was brought under the Disability Discrimination Act 1995. 
Disability Discrimination. Disability discrimination occurs when an employer or other entity covered by the Americans with Disabilities Act, as amended, or the Rehabilitation Act, as amended, treats a qualified individual with a disability who is an employee or applicant unfavorably because she has a disability. For example, it is illegal to discriminate against an employee because her husband has a disability. Note: Federal employees and applicants are covered by the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, instead of the Americans with Disabilities Act. The protections are mostly the same.
Ten years of the Disability Discrimination Act: Anniversary research indicates qualified failure. The Public Interest Research Unit (note 1) today, 8 November 2005, publishes a major study on a decade of the Disability Discrimination Act (passed on 8 November 1995). The research identified a number of factors as helping to explain the limits to the success of the Disability Discrimination Act (DDA) employment provisions.
The Effects of the ADA. One in five Americans has some type of disability and may ultimately be a victim of discrimination. With the goal of eliminating this type of discrimination, Congress enacted the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. The mission of the ADA is to assure equality of opportunity, full participation, independent living, and economic self-sufficiency to persons with disabilities.
Free media copies of the 190 page report are available on request (note 2). The research found that the Disability Discrimination Act has, since 1995, enabled several thousand people to gain some financial redress at the Employment Tribunals. It concludes, however, that the Act has failed to adequately tackle and reduce employment discrimination. The research identified a number of factors as helping to explain the limits to the success of the Disability Discrimination Act (DDA) employment provisions.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Disability Discrimination Act 1995 (c 50) (informally, and hereafter, the DDA) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom which has now been repealed and replaced by the Equality Act 2010, except in Northern Ireland where the Act still applies. 1 The Disability Discrimination Act 1995 (Amendment) Regulations 2003, and the Disability Discrimination Act 1995 (Pensions) Regulations 2003 which amended the DDA in line with the EU employment directive.
Disability, discrimination and the Equality Act. The Equality Act is a law that came into effect in October 2010. It protects people from being discriminated against because of their disability. It also protects people from being discriminated against because of their caring responsibilities. 
In respect of people with disabilities the relevant pieces of legislation are the Disability Discrimination Act, the Special Educational Needs and Disability Order and Section 75 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998. This is a brief overview on the Disability Discrimination Act. Equality of opportunity has been underpinned by UK legislation making it illegal to discriminate on the basis of religious belief or political affiliation, race, gender, disability and age. 
Disability discrimination. The disability Discrimination Act 1995, the employment parts of which came into force on 2 December 1996, is just over a year old. About 1,000 Industrial Tribunal claims have been lodged, and of the 23 decisions issued of which we are aware, only eight have been successful. Definition of disability. In deciding who is disabled within the meaning of the Act, there have been some positive IT decisions. Interestingly most of the decisions so far have concerned people with physical as opposed to mental disabilities.