Solve the equation f (x)= x 3 -2 x =0. We can factor rather easily: so the roots of the equation f (x)=0 are, x =0 and. Draw a picture of the x-axis and mark these points. Step 2. Our solutions partition the x-axis into four intervals. Pick a point (your choice!) in each interval. Let me take x =-2, x =-1, x =1 and x =2. Let me take x =0, x =1.5 and x =3. Compute f (x) for these points: These three points are representative for what happens in the intervals they are contained in: Since f f (x) will be positive for all x in the interval. Similarly, since f f (x) will be negative for all x in the interval (1,2).
The solution set of the inequality corresponds to the region where the graph of the polynomial is below the x-axis. The critical numbers -2 and 3 are the places where the graph intersects the x-axis. The critical numbers divide the x-axis into three intervals called test intervals for the inequality. The first step is to find the zeros of the polynomial x 2 - x - 6. x 2 - x - 6 = 0. (x + 2)(x - 3) = 0. x = -2, or x = 3. -2 and 3 are called the critical numbers of the inequality. Note: -2 and 3 are not in the solution set of the inequality. We are looking for values of x where the polynomial is negative.
The key then, to finding the solution set for a polynomial inequality, is to find the zeros of the inequality (pretend it was an equation), putting them on the number line, and picking a test point in each region. 1  Write the polynomial inequality in standard form so that the right side is zero. When solving a linear inequality, treat it just like you were solving an equation with a few exceptions. 1  When you multiply or divide both sides of an inequality by a negative constant, change the sense (direction) of the inequality.
The trick to solving a quadratic inequality is to replace the inequality symbol with an equal sign and solve the resulting equation. The solutions to the equation will allow you to establish intervals that will let you solve the inequality. Plot the solutions on a number line creating the intervals for investigation. 
To solve a rational inequality, you first find the zeroes (from the numerator) and the undefined points (from the denominator). You use these zeroes and undefined points to divide the number line into intervals. Then you find the sign of the rational on each interval. 
Section 2.6 Solving Inequalities Algebraically and Graphically 221 Example 2 Solving an Inequality Solve 1 ≥ 32 x x 4. Algebraic Solution Write original inequality.Multiply each side by the LCD.Subtract from each side.Subtract 2 from each side. The solution set is all real numbers that are less than orequal to 2. 1. Find all real zeros of the polynomial, and arrange the zeros inincreasing order. The zeros of a polynomial are its critical numbers. 2. Use the critical numbers to determine the test intervals. 3. Choose one representative value in each test interval and evaluatethe polynomial at that value.
Section 2.6 Solving Inequalities Algebraically and Graphically 223 Polynomial Inequalities To solve a polynomial inequality such as use the fact that apolynomial can change signs only at its zeros (the x-values that make thepolynomial equal to zero). 1. Find all real zeros of the polynomial, and arrange the zeros inincreasing order. The zeros of a polynomial are its critical numbers. 2. Use the critical numbers to determine the test intervals. 3. Choose one representative value in each test interval and evaluatethe polynomial at that value.
Return to the Lessons Index | Do the Lessons in Order | Get Purplemath on CD for offline use | Print-friendly page. Solving Polynomial Inequalities (page 1 of 2). The first step in solving a polynomial inequality is to find the polynomial's zeroes (its x-intercepts). for for for. I'll mark in the table the intervals where each of the factors is positive: ...and then I'm mark the factors as being negative everywhere else: The factors multiply together to create the polynomial; the signs of the factors multiply together to give the sign of the polynomial.
This lesson shows how to solve linear inequalites and some factorable polynomial inequalites algebraically. This is the first part of a two part lesson. This lesson was created for the MHF4U Advanced Functions course in the province of Ontario, Canada. 1  Education. 