Hospitals that employ larger numbers of BSN-prepared nurses have lower patient mortality rates, according to Linda Aiken, PhD, RN, FAAN, director of the Center for Health Outcomes and Policy Research at the University of Pennsylvania School of Nursing.
BSN degree nurses are better prepared to meet patient needs. The main difference in study between an ADN and BSN is the emphasis on additional education in leadership and management, wellness, and community nursing.
Master of Science in Nursing Degree. MSN degree programs are typically two years in duration and open to holders of BSN degrees. Some MSN programs will also offer entry to students with health-related bachelor’s degrees. It is also possible to enter MSN programs that accept all bachelor’s degree holders.
BSN-prepared nurses have completed a bachelor’s degree from an accredited college or university and have received additional training in leadership, management, and administrative roles. Essentially, ADN-prepared and BSN-prepared nurses can care for patients in the same ways. However, BSN-prepared nurses have been linked to better patient outcomes, lower mortality, and lower failure to rescue rates, according to the American Association of Colleges of Nursing (AACN) .
One of the strongest arguments to support the need for a higher percentage of BSN prepared nurses is the research evidence that a richer mix of BSN nurses results in better patient outcomes. Work done by Aiken (2003), Estabrooks et al. (2005), Tourangeau et al.
The BSN Nurse is Prepared for a Broad Role. Unlike graduates of diploma or associate-degree nursing programs, the nurse with a baccalaureate degree is prepared to practice in all health care settings-critical care, outpatient care, public health, and mental health.
Nurses with Bachelor of Science in Nursing (BSN) degrees are well-prepared to meet the demands placed on today's nurse. BSN nurses are prized for their skills in critical thinking, leadership, case management, and health promotion, and for their ability to practice across a variety of inpatient and outpatient settings.