Nightline anchor Bill Weir was granted unprecedented access to Foxconn, one of the Chinese companies Apple uses to manufacture their products. A Foxconn workers files down the iconic Apple logo a the company's iPad production plant in Chengdu, China. Workers say they can each process up to 6,000 units per day. 
Foxconn, Apple’s biggest supplier, which assembles the iPhones mostly in its facilities in China, has installed robots (nicknamed Foxbots) for the first time to meet its iPhone production quotas. It turned out iPhone 6 is still in glass, and it’s likely by Corning, which outsources its fabrication to Asia and France. It appears that Apple is giving out top secrets and arming our biggest enemies with state-of-the-art technologies that can diminish our competitiveness.
Speaking strictly for Apple, Obama's assessment is likely correct. Apple (AAPL) has said that it directly employs thousands of its own workers in China, and about 700,000 assembly workers at manufacturing contractors like Foxconn put together Apple products. It would be almost impossible to bring those jobs to the United States. There's another catch, and it's one that politicians don't like to talk about: China has many more skilled engineers than the United States does. Steve Jobs, Apple's late CEO, brought the issue up during an October 2010 meeting with President Obama.
A recent article on the “ Cult of Mac ” contrasts Apple to Timbuk2, a US producer of traveler and messenger bags, that proudly locates most of its of its manufacturing in San Francisco, one of the most expensive places on earth. So it’s with some authority that we can say that there is no good business rationale for Apple to manufacture in the United States; if it were to try it would almost certainly get into serious trouble. It is not an issue of labor costs. In fact, labor costs play a very small role in the equation — both for Apple and for Timbuk2. According to most sources component costs (which are about the same everywhere) are responsible for a lion’s share of Apple’s expenses
Apple set to move manufacturing from China to the US for new line of Mac computers. 1  Apple boss Tim Cook revealed plan in first major interview. 2  Also spoke of his admiration for Steve Jobs, claiming the Apple co-founder's biggest talent was his ability to change his mind. Cook said in his interview with NBC that companies like Apple chose to produce their products in places like China, not because of the lower costs associated with it, but because the manufacturing skills required just aren't present in the U.S. anymore.
The reason Apple makes iPhones and iPads in China, the article shows, is not just about money. Manufacturing an iPhone in the United States would cost about $65 more than manufacturing it in China, where it costs an estimated $8. This additional $65 would dent the profit Apple makes on each iPhone, but it wouldn't eliminate it. Wikimedia Commons Shenzhen. The manufacturing processes of Apple and other electronics companies have come into sharp focus of late, with the revelation of more details about what life is like for the Chinese workers who make the world's gadgets.
Apple gets a lot of stick about manufacturing in China, and the issue came up again recently with the release of the iPhone 5. So it’s with some authority that we can say that there is no good business rationale for Apple to manufacture in the United States; if it were to try it would almost certainly get into serious trouble. It is not an issue of labor costs. In fact, labor costs play a very small role in the equation — both for Apple and for Timbuk2. According to most sources component costs (which are about the same everywhere) are responsible for a lion’s share of Apple’s expenses
Most of Apple's manufacturing is completed by hands in China, where wages are far lower than in the U.S. Even President Barack Obama has said that many of these jobs will remain on foreign soil. Next year, we will do one of our existing Mac lines in the United States. Apple had 700,000 factory workers employed in China, [Jobs] said, and that was because it needed 30,000 engineers on-site to support those workers.