For the novel, see Heartburn (novel) . Heartburn, also known as pyrosis, cardialgia, or acid indigestion, is a burning sensation in the chest, just behind the breastbone or in the epigastrium, the upper central abdomen. The pain often rises in the chest and may radiate to the neck, throat, or angle of the jaw. Symptoms of heartburn can be confused with the pain that is a symptom of an acute myocardial infarction and angina. A description of burning or indigestion-like pain increases the risk of acute coronary syndrome, but not to a statistically significant level.
The terms indigestion includes heartburn along with a number of other symptoms. Indigestion is sometimes defined as a combination of epigastric pain and heartburn. Heartburn is commonly used interchangeably with gastroesophageal reflux disease rather than just to describe a symptom of burning in one's chest. Symptoms of heartburn can be confused with the pain that is a symptom of an acute myocardial infarction and angina. A description of burning or indigestion-like pain increases the risk of acute coronary syndrome, but not to a statistically significant level.
Indigestion, also known as dyspepsia, is a condition of impaired digestion. Symptoms may include upper abdominal fullness, heartburn, nausea, belching, or upper abdominal pain. People may also experience feeling full earlier than expected when eating. Functional indigestion (previously called nonulcer dyspepsia) is indigestion without evidence of an organic disease that is likely to explain the symptoms.
Heartburn, also known as acid indigestion, is actually a common symptom of an underlying condition called gastroesophageal reflux (GERD) or acid reflux. In addition to heartburn, symptoms of GERD may include: 1  Persistent sore throat. 2  Hoarseness. 3  Chronic cough. 4  Asthma. 5  Chest pain. 6  Feeling like there is a lump in your throat. 
Indigestion (also known as dyspepsia) happens to almost everyone from time to time. Eating habits or a chronic digestive problem can trigger indigestion. Indigestion can cause stomach pain or bloating. You may also have heartburn, nausea, and vomiting. Other common symptoms of indigestion include: 1  feeling full during a meal and not being able to finish eating. 2  feeling extremely full after eating a normal-sized meal.
(Also Called 'Indigestion-Care & Treatment'). Indigestion is not a distinct condition, but it may be a sign of an underlying intestinal disorder such as peptic ulcer or gallbladder disease. Indigestion, also known as upset stomach or dyspepsia, is a painful or burning feeling in the upper abdomen. What are some of the symptoms associated with indigestion? Some characteristic symptoms of indigestion are burning in the stomach or upper abdomen, heartburn, abdominal pain, bloating (full feeling), belching and gas, nausea, vomiting, acidic taste, growling stomach, and sometimes diarrhea.
Also. known as dyspepsia, heartburn, and upset stomach, indigestion. is not a clear-cut condition. Instead, it is believed to be a symptom of certain. underlying intestinal disorders such as chronic appendicitis, gallbladder disease, or peptic ulcer.
Indigestion – also known as dyspepsia – in pregnancy is partly caused by hormonal changes, and in later pregnancy by the growing womb pressing on your stomach. As many as eight out of 10 women experience indigestion at some point during their pregnancy. The symptoms of indigestion (dyspepsia), including heartburn, are caused by stomach acid coming into contact with the sensitive protective lining (mucosa) of your digestive system. The stomach acid breaks down the mucosa, which causes irritation and leads to the symptoms of indigestion.
Indigestion, which is sometimes called dyspepsia, is a general term covering a group of nonspecific symptoms in the digestive tract. It is often described as a feeling of fullness, bloating, nausea, heartburn, or gassy discomfort in the chest or abdomen. The symptoms develop during meals or shortly afterward. 
What Is Known About Indigestion. Indigestion, also called functional dyspepsia, is one of the most common gastrointestinal conditions. Symptoms generally follow eating and include an acidic taste in the mouth, belching, gas, growling stomach, abdominal bloating, an uncomfortable feeling of fullness, and nausea. 