2 days if it`s within the state (north-south-east-west). 3 days if it is within a remote area of the same state. If you want it to be priority it will still take 2-3 days. Otherwise across the country it could take 3-5 days. Not including weekends. 1 77% - How long does it take for mail to get arrive from washington state to maryland? 2  84% - How long does it take standard mail to go from state to state? 3  38% - How are out of state mail deliver long distance mail?
How long does mail take to arrive? on average 3-4 days It also depends on the distance it has to travel. Mailing a letter, using the basic postage stamp, from one town to a town only 20 miles away, can be deliv … ered next day. It depends on where you're mailing it from and where you're mailing it to. I sent letters to Florida from New York and they arrived in 3-4 days. From Florida to New York took 5-7 days.
How long does it take mail to arrive between two cities that are less than 40 miles apart in the same state? 1-2 days, depends on thew postal service. it depends what time you posted the letter and if it was first class are second, if you posted it before the mail was taken and it was first class it should arrive the next da … y if it was second maby 2-3 days or more.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: They usually will receive the letter in a day or two, it just depends on how slow the mail is. But no longer than two days. Source(s): I send letters to my sister all the time from one city to another! Brandyyup · 6 years ago. How long it takes you to mail it is ENTIRELY up to you...! How long it takes to get from there to its destination is a question best directed to the post office you mail it at.
How long does mail take to arrive? on average 3-4 days It also depends on the distance it has to travel. Mailing a letter, using the basic postage stamp, from one town to a town only 20 miles away, can be deliv … ered next day. However, one state to another? I agree with answer above, average 3-4 days. it depends what time you posted the letter and if it was first class are second, if you posted it before the mail was taken and it was first class it should arrive the next da … y if it was second maby 2-3 days or more.
January 6, 2012 By Certified Mail Envelopes. Plan on 3 to 5 business days unless you send it Priority Mail 2 or 3 day service. USPS Certified Mail provides the mailer a receipt or ‘proof of mailing’ and evidence of delivery when the letter is delivered. It does not guarantee an exact delivery time because someone must sign for each letter. This reminder informs them a USPS Certified Mail letter is being held at the local Post Office for pick-up. They must go to the Post Office to Sign for the letter and pick it up. If no one picks up the letter after five to seven days, USPS attempts a second delivery.
Timeframe. The United States Postal Services reports that as of January 2011, it takes an average of one to three days for First-Class Mail to arrive at its destination. Priority Mail takes an average of one to two days to arrive, according to the USPS. USPS only includes the time a package stays in transit in their estimations. Packages dropped off at a post office during business hours usually leave that day. Packages dropped off after hours may take an additional day
Most Priority Mail takes about 2-3 days depending on the distance.  In this case, since the distance from California to West Virginia  would be nearly crossing the whole of … United States, you can expect  it to arrive at around 3 days. It depends on where you're mailing it from and where you're mailing it to. I sent letters to Florida from New York and they arrived in 3-4 days. From Florida to New York took 5-7 days.