Cold sores, despite the name, are not caused by the common cold. They are caused by a virus, specifically, the herpes simplex virus (HSV). Cold sores are contagious and are passed to others through direct contact or contact with body fluid. There are two different types of HSV-type 1 and type 2. Canker sores affect the inside of the mouth and are not caused by the herpes virus. In contrast to canker sores, cold sores usually develop on the lip and not inside the mouth.
Cold sores, sometimes called fever blisters, are groups of small blisters on the lip and around the mouth. The skin around the blisters is often red, swollen, and sore. The blisters may break open, leak a clear fluid, and then scab over after a few days. They usually heal after several days to 2 weeks. Cold sores are caused by the herpes simplex virus (HSV) . There are two types of herpes simplex virus: HSV-1 and HSV-2. Both virus types can cause lip and mouth sores and genital herpes. The herpes simplex virus usually enters the body through a break in the skin around or inside
Both cold sore and fever blister refer to the lip blisters caused by infections of the Herpes Simplex I virus (not to be confused with Herpes Simplex II, which is generally associated with genital herpes). Cold Sores are viral infections which cause recurrent groups of irritating, even painful blisters on the lips. 
Fever blisters, also called cold sores, usually occur outside the mouth--on the lips, chin, cheeks or in the nostrils. When fever blisters do occur inside the mouth, it is usually on the gums or the roof of the mouth. Inside the mouth, fever blisters are smaller than canker sores, heal more quickly, and often begin as a blister. Both canker sores and fever blisters have plagued mankind for thousands of years. A child can spread the virus by rubbing his or her cold sore and then touching other children. About 10 percent of oral herpes infections in adults result from oral-genital sex with a person who has active genital herpes (type 2). These infections, however, usually do not result in repeat bouts of fever blisters.
The appearance of a cold sore (fever blister) will change as it works its way through the five stages of formation outlined below. This process usually takes between 8 and 12 days (from first sign to complete healing). Cold sore (fever blister) - Stages / Identification / Pictures / Signs & Symptoms. Cold sores (fever blisters) are usually distinguished from other types of mouth sores by evaluating: 1  The way the sore looks as it goes through its stages of formation. 2  The location in which the lesion forms.
Considerations. Fever blisters are most common on the lips and the areas around the mouth. Sometimes they can show up on your nostrils, chin and even your fingers. They have been known to appear inside an individual's mouth, usually on the gums or the hard palate on the roof of the mouth. Herpes simplex virus type 1 is usually to blame for these blisters, while simplex type 2 causes genital herpes for the most part. Both can cause sores. You will catch the herpes virus from someone who has an active fever blister. Activities like kissing, sharing a towel, a razor or eating utensils can spread the virus.
Cold sores, sometimes called fever blisters, are groups of small blisters on the lip and around the mouth. The skin around the blisters is often red, swollen, and sore. The blisters may break open, leak a clear fluid, and then scab over after a few days. They usually heal in several days to 2 weeks. 
Fever blisters are more commonly referred to as cold sores. They are groups of small blisters that can appear on the lip and around the mouth after exposure to a herpes virus. The skin can become red and swollen and painful. Herpes simplex virus type 1 is usually to blame for these blisters, while simplex type 2 causes genital herpes for the most part. Both can cause sores. You will catch the herpes virus from someone who has an active fever blister. Activities like kissing, sharing a towel, a razor or eating utensils can spread the virus.
Within 24 to 48 hours, one or more tiny blisters (fever blisters) appear. These blisters pop and form painful sores (cold sores). The sores eventually are covered by crusts, which look like scabs. The crusts are shed and form again while the sore heals. HSV-1 also can infect the eyes, the skin of the fingers and the genitals. Most genital herpes infections are caused by herpes simplex type 2 (HSV-2), however. Symptoms. People infected with HSV-1 for the first time may have fever, headache, nausea and vomiting. They may have painful swelling and open sores in the mouth.