Obsidian is used for protection, removing negativity, and many more things in crystal healing and energy work. Learn more about its metaphysical properties and healing lore. Alternate Names or Spellings for Obsidian: Glass Agate, Glassy Lava, Xaga, Royal Agate (a mottled obsidian). Obsidian is a natural, volcanic glass. Obsidian is a very protective stone, and is excellent for removing negativity. It is also excellent protection against psychic attacks. In particular obsidian protects the gentle from abuse, and is used to cut attachment cords to release one. It is a very grounding stone, and very healing. 
Typical colours-Black with white patches. In addition to the generic healing properties of Obsidian, Snowflake Obsidian is calming and soothing. It teaches you to value mistakes as well as successes. A stone of purity, Snowflake Obsidian provides balance for body, mind and spirit. 
Obsidian Gemstone meaning. With its glassy luster, obsidian is a distinctive stone. Obsidian is formed as lava from volcanic eruptions cools within the earth. The speed at which it cools prevents crystallization and the rock forms as solid volcanic glass. Although its most common color is black, obsidian can also be found in light brown, brown mottled with black, and black with a beautiful golden or silvery sheen.
Properties: Black Obsidian is a very powerful and creative stone, it grounds and centres spiritual energy in the physical plane. Obsidian connects the mind and emotions. Self-control is increased by the use of this stone. Obsidian is a lightweight, shiny black gemstone created when a volcanic flow is cooled very quickly, into what Geologists call volcanic glass. Black Obsidian is sometimes referred to as Apache Tear Obsidian when in tear drop form. Obsidian, in general, is said to get its name from the Roman Obsius.
Obsidian stone can be found almost anywhere there has been volcanic activity in the past, but not all the sources are currently being mined. Most mining is done in Armenia, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Java, Kenya, Mexico, New Zealand, Scotland and Turkey. 
Obsidian Stone Generator. Black Obsidian Stone is a powerful cleanser of psychic smog created within your aura, and is a strong psychic protection stone. It has powerful metaphysical properties that will shield you against negativity, and the energy of these stones may stimulate the gift of prophecy. Obsidian rock forms from molten lava that cooled very quickly and had no time to form into glass. It is said to be a type of volcanic glass, and is found in a number of places worldwide. There are a number of different variations of this stone, and it comes in a range of types and colors.
Metaphysical : Obsidian is volcanic lava cooled quickly. It is a natural glass. A stone of protection, is was probably one the first stones to be used for arrowheads and knives. A stone of Honesty, Sincerity and Truth, Obsidian will bring out the Warrior spirit in you.
Obsidian Gemstone Meanings, Properties & Qualities. Obsidian is a black gemstone with a glassy luster, although there are other types of Obsidian including snowflake obsidian and mahogany obsidian. As a black gemstone, it symbolizes self control and resilience. Obsidian is actually volcanic glass. It has been used since prehistoric times for making tools, masks, weapons, mirrors and jewelry. It is found in Iceland, Italy, Japan, Wyoming, and Hawaii
that may be green and purple, brown, blue and green. Snowflake Obsidian is the black and white stone, in the photo gallery further down the page, and Apache Tears are also in this family, and have some excellent qualities. It has an excellent spiritual grounding vibration and also has a strong psychic protection energy. Obsidian rock forms from molten lava that cooled very quickly and had no time to form into glass. It is said to be a type of volcanic glass, and is found in a number of places worldwide. There are a number of different variations of this stone, and it comes in a range of types and colors.