Oregano. Another herb used widely in Italian cooking is oregano. Oregano offers a complimentary flavor to basil, and is widely used in tomato-based dishes, with meat or fish, and in salads. It also tastes wonderful with beans or eggplant, and in risotto. It's difficult to imagine Italian cuisine without the distinct flavor of fresh herbs. Indeed, the mere thought of Italian cooking brings to mind the aroma and taste of basil, oregano, rosemary, and garlic. Planting and cultivating your own herb garden is simple, and will provide you with your own steady supply of fresh herbs for use in your kitchen. Basil. Basil is an essential herb in Italian cooking. Crushed basil leaves. Basil plant. combined with oil, garlic, and pine nuts create a delicious pesto sauce. Basil is the perfect compliment to the flavor of tomato sauce, and works well in pasta dishes
Basilico. Italy's best known herb, basil has a strong anise flavor. A must in pesto, basil is a natural with tomatoes. (Basil's sweetness works nicely with the acidity in the tomatoes.) Tarragon, which isn't widely used in Italy, has a similar anise flavor, and you can use it as a substitute. Mint is used more in southern Italy and has an intensity and freshness similar to basil, which is perhaps the best substitute. Oregano. Origano. This herb has a potent aroma and flavor that predominates in much southern Italian cooking and is used commonly
It's virtually impossible for an Italian to think of cooking without the addition of their beloved herbs and spices. Like an unhurried walk through the Italian countryside, it's a joy to wander through-or skip around-the descriptions, legends, and uses of the various herbs and spices used most often in Italian kitchens. Fresh Herbs & Spices Primer. A key element of any great recipe—fresh herbs and spices. Both are introduced to recipes to enhance flavor, texture and often color. In Italian cuisine, herbs and spices are just as vital as, say, a spaghetti sauce bib.
Cooking With Herbs In An Italian Kitchen. Italian cooking is impossible without herbs. One cannot imagine tomato sauce without basil, roast pork without rosemary, or stewed beans without sage. When it comes to herbs, fresh herbs should be used as much as possible except for a few rare exceptions. Sage stores well in the refrigerator. Thyme (Timo): Thyme is a very powerful herb so should be used sparingly. It is great to season meats, stuffing’s, marinades and some seafood. The easiest way to use fresh thyme is to simply pull the small leaves off the stiff stalks, using just the leaves in your cooking.
The Italians use vanilla pods (beans) rather then essence (extract). Herbs are an important flavouring in Italian cooking and fresh ones are normally used, because most Italians either grow their own or have easy access to fresh herbs. In the winter months home-dried herbs are used. Sage (salvia) Sage is commonly used in liver and veal dishes. Italian Spices and Herbs From The Encyclopedia of Italian Cooking by Jeni Wright. Spices have been used in Italy since Roman times, when if anything they were used to excess, drowning the flavor of other ingredients.
Parsley. Prezzemolo. This herb is the unheralded star of Italian cooking. Basil may get all the attention, but parsley is more widely used. Flat-leaf varieties have a stronger flavor than curly-leaf varieties. You can cook parsley with garlic and onions in olive oil to form the flavor base for many dishes. Mint is used more in southern Italy and has an intensity and freshness similar to basil, which is perhaps the best substitute. Oregano. Origano. This herb has a potent aroma and flavor that predominates in much southern Italian cooking and is used commonly with tomatoes.
Cooking With Herbs In An Italian Kitchen. Italian cooking is impossible without herbs. One cannot imagine tomato sauce without basil, roast pork without rosemary, or stewed beans without sage. When it comes to herbs, fresh herbs should be used as much as possible except for a few rare exceptions. 
Most of the herbs are not a big challenge to grow in your own garden. BASIL: Probably the most widely used of the Italian herbs used in Italian culinary efforts. If you look at Italian cooking basics, a large percentage of the dishes start with the tomato sauce which Italians refer to as gravy. Basil is the perfect compliment to the flavor of tomato sauce, soups and marinades. 