Heart disease describes a range of conditions that affect your heart. Diseases under the heart disease umbrella include blood vessel diseases, such as coronary artery disease; heart rhythm problems (arrhythmias); and heart defects you're born with (congenital heart defects), among others.
1 The cause of this most common type of cardiomyopathy often is unknown. 2  It may be caused by reduced blood flow to the heart (ischemic heart disease), infections, toxins and certain drugs. 3  It also may be inherited from a parent. 4  It usually enlarges (dilates) the left ventricle. Common causes of abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias) or conditions that can lead to arrhythmias include: 1  Heart defects you're born with (congenital heart defects). 2  Coronary artery disease. 3  High blood pressure. 4  Diabetes. 5  Smoking. 6  Excessive use of alcohol or caffeine. 7  Drug abuse. 8  Stress
The term heart disease is often used interchangeably with the term cardiovascular disease.. Cardiovascular disease generally refers to conditions that involve narrowed or blocked blood vessels that can lead to a heart attack, chest pain (angina) or stroke. Diseases under the heart disease umbrella include blood vessel diseases, such as coronary artery disease; heart rhythm problems (arrhythmias); and heart defects you're born with (congenital heart defects), among others.
C oronary heart disease is the #1 killer in the United States. Accounting for 1 in every 4 deaths, it takes the lives of 600,000 people every year!(1) According the CDC’s Morbidity and Mortality Weekly Report(2), heart disease has been the leading cause of death since 1921. 
Please read through the links below for a thorough understanding of heart disease, from prevention to diagnosis and in between. Heart disease is still the #2 cause of death in the United States--arm yourself with the knowledge you can find in the links below. 
Heart Disease in the United States. 1  About 610,000 people die of heart disease in the United States every year–that’s 1 in every 4 deaths. 1. 2  Heart disease is the leading cause of death for both men and women. 3  More than half of the deaths due to heart disease in 2009 were in men. Heart disease is the leading cause of death for people of most ethnicities in the United States, including African Americans, Hispanics, and whites.
The cause of cardiomyopathy, a thickening or enlarging of the heart muscle, may depend on the type: 1  Dilated cardiomyopathy. 2  The cause of this most common type of cardiomyopathy often is unknown. 3  It may be caused by reduced blood flow to the heart (ischemic heart disease), infections, toxins and certain drugs. Common causes of abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias) or conditions that can lead to arrhythmias include: 1  Heart defects you're born with (congenital heart defects). 2  Coronary artery disease. 3  High blood pressure. 4  Diabetes. 5  Smoking. 6  Excessive use of alcohol or caffeine. 7  Drug abuse. 8  Stres
Heart diseases can damage the coronary arteries, which provide oxygen-rich blood to the heart muscle. Heart diseases can also impair the functioning or structure of the heart and blood vessels. Coronary artery disease causes most heart attacks and is the most common form of heart disease. The types of heart disease include: Atherosclerosis is a buildup of cholesterol, calcium and blood clotting material on the walls of the arteries. The material that builds up is called plaque. Heart failure is a condition in which the heart has been damaged from a heart attack or other type of heart disease. Heart valve disorder is a malfunctioning heart valve that causes abnormal stress on the heart. Myocarditis is an infection of the middle layer of the heart wall.
Heart disease, or cardiovascular disease, is a general name for a wide variety of diseases, disorders and conditions that affect the heart and blood vessels. Heart disease is the number one cause of death in the United States, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (Source: CDC). Heart failure is a condition in which the heart has been damaged from a heart attack or other type of heart disease. Heart valve disorder is a malfunctioning heart valve that causes abnormal stress on the heart. Myocarditis is an infection of the middle layer of the heart wall.