A desert is a barren area of land where little precipitation occurs and consequently living conditions are hostile for plant and animal life. The lack of vegetation exposes the unprotected surface of the ground to the processes of denudation. About one third of the land surface of the world is arid or semi-arid. A desert is a region of land that is very dry because it receives low amounts of precipitation (usually in the form of rain but may be snow, mist or fog), often has little coverage by plants, and in which streams dry up unless they are supplied by water from outside the area.
English desert and its Romance cognates (including Italian and Portuguese deserto, French desert désert And spanish) desierto all come from the Ecclesiastical latin (dēsertum originally an abandoned), place a participle of, dēserere to. abandon A desert is a region of land that is very dry because it receives low amounts of precipitation (usually in the form of rain but may be snow, mist or fog), often has little coverage by plants, and in which streams dry up unless they are supplied by water from outside the area.
The Desert Biome. Deserts are often defined as areas that receive less than 10 inches of average annual rainfall, but a more accurate defining factor is aridity. In addition to low rainfall, deserts are characterized by a high rate of water loss from the ground (evaporation) and through plants (transpiration). 
Spell it with one s (desert) and it's a place where you'd have trouble finding a glass of water, let alone a scoop of vanilla. A desert is defined by the water you won't find there. There's no official standard, but many people say that any place that gets less than 10 inches of precipitation a year qualifies. Deserts do not have to be hot. And although many people think of the Sahara as the world's biggest desert, that distinction actually belongs to Antarctica, which is incredibly cold and amazingly dry, receiving the frozen equivalent of less than 2 inches of water per year. In spite of this dryness, some animals and plants thrive in deserts.
Deserts cover more than one fifth of the Earth's land, and they are found on every continent. A place that receives less than 10 inches (25 centimeters) of rain per year is considered a desert. Deserts are part of a wider classification of regions called drylands.. 
Definition of DESERT. 1. a: arid land with usually sparse vegetation; especially: such land having a very warm climate and receiving less than 25 centimeters (10 inches) of sporadic rainfall annually b: an area of water apparently devoid of life. 2. archaic: a wild uninhabited and uncultivated tract. 1 Satellite images taken this year and 20 years ago show that the desert is in retreat thanks to a resurgence of trees. — 2 Andy Coghlan, New Scientist, 14-20 Oct. 2006. 3  The coastal plain is a desert in terms of precipitation—less than six inches fall annually—but what falls as snow stays to be later distributed by the wind
What defines a desert? A desert is defined simply by the amount of rainfall that falls in an area in conjunction with the amount of evaporation. In essence, its any area that receives on average less than 10 inches of rainfall per year, and where the yearly evaporation is more than 10 inches of rain a year. Think of the desert of Nevada caused by the Sierra Nevadas. As the moisture in the air goes up and over these ranges, it cools, depositing its moisture load on the range. By the time the air comes down, it has very little moisture left ... thus causing a desert.