Count income from rental property as earned income when the unit spends an average of at least 43 hours per month maintaining or managing the property. Otherwise, count it as unearned income. Allow earned income disregards only for earned rental income.
The Internal Revenue Service recognizes two types of income: earned and passive. Earned income includes wages, salaries, commissions and any other type of income for which the taxpayer performs a service or conducts a business activity in return. Passive income comes from real estate, investments and rental activities.
For example, you sign a 10-year lease to rent your property. In the first year, you receive $5,000 for the first year's rent and $5,000 as rent for the last year of the lease. You must include $10,000 in your income in the first year. Security deposits used as a final payment of rent are considered advance rent.
Obviously, any income you earn by working for someone else will be considered earned income. Salaries, wages, tips, professional fees, business income (from self-employment), and farm income all count as earned income. Those are pretty straightforward.
Expenses paid by tenant occur if your tenant pays any of your expenses. You must include them in your rental income. You can deduct the expenses if they are deductible rental expenses. For example, your tenant pays the water and sewage bill for your rental property and deducts it from the normal rent payment. Under the terms of the lease, your tenant does not have to pay this bill.
Rental income is not typically considered earned income for most people. Typically, it will be unearned income. There are some rare circumstances where it is considered earned income, but it typically only applies to real estate professionals or people who have made a business out of renting properties out.
Income from rental property may be earned or unearned. See the program provisions for when rental income is earned or unearned. Deduct allowable expenses from both earned and unearned rental income to get gross rental income. Allow earned income disregards only for earned