BID: a coin or bar’s buyback price. BULLION: platinum, gold or silver in the form of bars, coins or ingots. BREAK EVEN: the percentage gain a coin or bar’s bid price must increase to equal the original ask or selling price. Break Even = (Ask – Bid)/Bid. MELT VALUE: the value of a coin or bar. The Melt Value is calculated by the amount of metal multiplied by the spot price of the metal. For example, if a coin contains one ounce of gold and the spot price is $1,500 per ounce, the melt value of the coin is $1,500. 
BREAKING DOWN 'Bid-Ask Spread'. For example, if the bid price is $20 and the ask price is $21 then the bid-ask spread is $1. The size of the spread from one asset to another will differ mainly because of the difference in liquidity of each asset. DEFINITION of 'Bid-Ask Spread'. The amount by which the ask price exceeds the bid. This is essentially the difference in price between the highest price that a buyer is willing to pay for an asset and the lowest price for which a seller is willing to sell it. Next Up.
The Ask Price. The listed ask price lives up to its label. The ask is the lowest firm price at which someone in the market has offered to sell shares. If you enter a market order to buy the stock, your order will be filled at the current ask price. The ask is the cost to buy shares at the current moment in the market. 
There s the bid price, which is the price another investor would be willing to buy shares of a stock for. And then there s the ask price, which is the price you d have to pay if you wanted to buy the stock. The ask price is generally higher than the bid price, but sometimes they can be virtually the same. 
Bullion Investing Guide. Tweet. If you are new to the gold and silver game, you will likely look up the silver or gold spot price and assume that is the price of physical gold or silver. Well if the world of silver and gold price discovery was legitimate and honest, that may be the case but I digress, for it is no
Spot price. When you buy (or sell) precious metals the seller will reference a market or ‘spot’ price and add to (or subtract from) this. The spot price plus this difference – called a premium – is what a retail investor pays to obtain gold and silver coins and bars. 
Bid is the price that someone is willing to buy a stock Ask is the price that someone is willing to sell the stock Let us say you want to sell 100 shares of XYZ Ltd in the market and you quote a price of $25 per share. 
The ask is opposite of the bid. The ask is the current lowest price at which you could buy. As a rule, you buy it often higher than the ask price. After realize the two terms, we should know another term bid-ask spread. The difference between the bid price and the ask price is called the bid-ask spread. If you would like to sell gold, a broker will offer to buy it for the bid price. And if you would like to buy it, the broker will offer to sell it to you for the ask price. The spread is the broker's profit. 