Most flights that originate from outside the US have a weight limit for total checked baggage-a miserly 20kg/44lbs if you're traveling in coach class, 30kg/66lbs for business class and 40kg/88lbs for first class. Checked Luggage Allowances. Airlines have substantially tightened up on their checked luggage policies. Most airlines now charge extra for suitcases weighing more than 50lbs, whereas until a few years back they'd carry suitcases weighing up to 70 lbs with no surcharge.
Checked Baggage Fees. Passengers on many Delta flights must pay baggage fees to check their bags. The first checked bag for a domestic Delta flight costs travelers $25 as of 2011. The second checked bag includes a $35 fee. All flights to Europe cost $200 per bag after the second bag. Checked bags that weigh between 51 and 70 lbs. on domestic flights cost travelers an additional $90 per bag. The cost on flights to Europe is $75.
That means one less thing you will have to do at the airport. When you arrive at the airport, you can drop off your checked baggage at the nearest baggage drop, marked with red Baggage Drop signage, or curbside check-in station (available within 6 hours of departure time). Keep your bags in sight at all times. Virtually speaking, at least. In order to track your checked bags, just enter the Bag Tag Number that you received at the time of baggage check-in.
Overweight & Oversized Bags. Travelers that want to check more than two bags on a Delta domestic flight should be prepared to pay $125 for the third bag. All subsequent bags cost $200 each. All flights to Europe cost $200 per bag after the second bag. Checked bags that weigh between 51 and 70 lbs. on domestic flights cost travelers an additional $90 per bag. The cost on flights to Europe is $75.
Weight and Size Allowance. Southwest will accept the first two checked bags for free provided that the bags do not exceed 50 lbs and 62 inches (L+W+H). Overweight items from 51 to 100 pounds and oversized items in excess of 62 inches but not more than 80 inches will be accepted for a charge of $75.00 per item one-way. Size and weight limitations apply. Each piece of baggage in excess of the free baggage allowance specified above that is not in excess of 62 inches (L+W+H) and 50 lbs. or les
Before Your Trip. Check here before you check your bags. See which items can be carried onboard at no charge, view current checked baggage fee information and learn about our size and weight restrictions. Discover which items require special care and may incur additional fees, which items are considered hazardous by federal law and more.
Weight Restrictions. Domestic and international airlines such as Delta, Southwest and British Airways impose a weight limit of 50 pounds on any checked luggage. This is a per-piece limit, meaning if you are paying to check two or more bags, they must weigh no more than 50 pounds each. The cost will depend on the airline, for example Southwest Airlines charges $75 for oversized luggage, and Delta charges between $125 and $200, depending on how many bags you are checking, as of publication.
The maximum number of linear inches on a checked bag for most airlines is 62 inches. This means that when you add up the length, width and height of the luggage you intend to check, it should not be more than 62 inches. Most standard suitcases, garment bags and duffel bags measure 62 linear inches or less. The cost will depend on the airline, for example Southwest Airlines charges $75 for oversized luggage, and Delta charges between $125 and $200, depending on how many bags you are checking, as of publication.
Passengers on many Delta flights must pay baggage fees to check their bags. The first checked bag for a domestic Delta flight costs travelers $25 as of 2011. All flights to Europe cost $200 per bag after the second bag. Checked bags that weigh between 51 and 70 lbs. on domestic flights cost travelers an additional $90 per bag. The cost on flights to Europe is $75.