Applying First Coat of Compound. Apply a thin layer of joint compound to the seam. Press tape into the joint compound along the seam. Then apply joint compound over the tape with a drywall knife. Smooth the compound into place. Let it dry completely and then sand it with a pole sander to remove large imperfections
#412 Tap Shield. Tap Shield is a balanced, water miscible, highly fortified extreme pressure tapping compound that is designed for difficult tapping operations where excellent adhesion and clinging are required. 
(August 2010). Tapping. Tapping is a guitar playing technique, where a string is fretted and set into vibration as part of a single motion of being pushed onto the fretboard, as opposed to the standard technique being fretted with one hand and picked with the other.
Re: all purpose or taping compound? All purpose (green top) is for stringing tape. Lite mud like plus 3 or proform lite can be used but it does not have the bonding agents (glue) that all purpose has. 
help finding a good tapping paste. I used a tap paste several years ago. I want to find some that someone can recommend some that works well. need it for tapping and drilling upside down. Tapping compound. I 'Googled' one of the local suppliers. After all, some of you were not even born when I ordered such for a firm with 1.3 million households. I gave-from the top of my head-what industry had used used to build UK and US industries from inception. It was commented on but-not tested.
Universal Tapping Compound. Molecular's Tapping Compound is a heavy duty tapping material, which excels in all areas of tapping. It is extremely effective on steel, copper, stainless, aluminium, heat treated, and most significantly the exotic metals (i.e. titanium). 
Considerations. If your budget is low or your project is small, all-purpose joint compound can fulfill all your basic needs. Topping compound, on the other hand, doesn’t work well for anything but creating a smooth final finish. Topping Compound. If you use quick-setting compound, cover it later with topping joint compound, which works well for creating smooth, even coats. For example, you might embed paper tape in quick-setting joint compound, apply a thick coat over the tape to hide it and let the compound dry for the specified time.
Print. Share: Setting-type joint compound, lightweight joint compound, all-purpose compound and others all have their unique uses. Learn the difference between them and get a better understanding of the choices for different situations. Setting compounds. Setting compounds are dry powders that are mixed with water as needed. They harden in the time indicated on the bag. For starters, buy a bag of 45- minute setting compound; you'll find it in 30-lb. bags (and sometimes smaller boxes), with names like Durabond or Easy Sand 45.