Burbur is an extract produced from the leaves of Desmodium molliculum, a perennial plant that is harvested between 1,000 meters to 3,500 meters above sea level in Peru. Many health care professionals have reported that Burbur can be used in place of 6 detox remedies. In many cases a significant healing crisis (Herxheimer's reaction) can be dramatically reduced or eliminated with the use of Burbur. Primary Use Of Burbur:
While taking Burbur Detox at the first sign of an intense herxheimer reaction can help reduce it, taking Burbur Detox daily as part of a regular detoxification protocol may decrease the chances of a herxheimer from even happening in the first place. 1 Step 1: Place 8 to 10 drops of Burbur Detox into 4 ounces of water. 2  Step 2: Stir the mixture and let it sit for about 1 minute. 3  Step 3: Drink the mixture and repeat this process every 15 minutes for about 5 - 7 episodes.
Burbur Detox is a supplement produced by Nutramedix available only in tincture form. It contains an extract from a plant in Peru called Desmodium Molliculum. In regards to Lyme Disease, this supplement is designed to actually reduce, if not eliminate, a herxheimer reaction completely. 1 Step 1: Place 8 to 10 drops of Burbur Detox into 4 ounces of water. 2  Step 2: Stir the mixture and let it sit for about 1 minute. 3  Step 3: Drink the mixture and repeat this process every 15 minutes for about 5 - 7 episodes.
The effectiveness of Burbur Detox can be synergistic with the additional use of Pinella Brain and Nerve Cleanse. Instead of just taking Burbur Detox alone, combine it with Pinella Brain and Nerve cleanse to feel better than taking Burbur alone. 1 Step 1: Place 8 to 10 drops of Burbur Detox into 4 ounces of water. 2  Step 2: Stir the mixture and let it sit for about 1 minute. 3  Step 3: Drink the mixture and repeat this process every 15 minutes for about 5 - 7 episodes.
Burbur is an extract produced by the company NutraMedix from the leaves of the plant Desmodium molliculum. One of its common names is manayupa. Desmodium molliculum is a perennial herb from Peru and other parts of South America, although it has been naturalized in Africa. As with any new treatments, consult your doctor before beginning to use Burbur. Desmodium molliculum has many common names: manayupa, beggar lice, hard man, hard stick and strong back, as well as others in other languages. The herb can grow up to 3 feet in length and about 20 inches above the ground.
Copied from http://www.herbalremedies.com/ burbur-detox.html. The herb in Burbur has been traditionally used for its body cleansing properties. It is very effective in aiding detoxification of the liver, kidneys, lymphatics and the ground matrix. Burbur is commonly used in conjunction with powerful antimicrobials produced by Nutramedix, Samento and Cumanda. Many health care professionals have reported that Burbur can be used in place of 6 detox remedies. In many cases a significant healing crisis (Herxheimer's reaction) can be dramatically reduced or eliminated with the use of Burbur. Primary Use Of Burbur:
Burbur is an extract produced from the leaves of the Desmodium Molliculum, a perennial plant found in Peru. Nutramedix, the U.S, producer of Burbur, uses a proprietary extraction and enhancement technology, that makes this a more effective therapy than conventional Desmodium Molliculum. The herb found in burbur also is effective in asthma, killing microbes, preventing inflammation, killing tumor cells, fighting viral and parasitic infections, removing excessive fluids, helping the immune system, improving digestion, preventing allergic reactions, sedating and protecting the liver.
Description The herb in Burbur has been traditionally used for its body cleansing properties. It is very effective in aiding detoxification of the liver, kidneys, lymphatics and the ground matrix. Burbur is commonly used in conjunction with powerful antimicrobials produced by Nutramedix, Samento and Cumanda. Many health care professionals have reported that Burbur can be used in place of 6 detox remedies.
Burbur has been traditionally used for its cleansing properties. It is quite effective in detoxifying the liver, kidneys lymphatic tissue and the interstitial matrix. Burbur has diuretic properties and also has beneficial effects on the Cytochrome P450 liver detoxifying system. The herb found in burbur also is effective in asthma, killing microbes, preventing inflammation, killing tumor cells, fighting viral and parasitic infections, removing excessive fluids, helping the immune system, improving digestion, preventing allergic reactions, sedating and protecting the liver.