Quick Answer. The acronym NAACP stands for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, and the organization was created in 1909 as part of the civil rights movement. The NAACP still exists today, and it is committed to ensuring that all people have rights and that race-based discrimination is eradicated worldwide.
The acronym NAACP stands for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (or in the alternative version proposed by Whoopie Goldberg, it stands for the Nati … onal Association for the Advancement of Certain People).
Founded in 1909, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP) was one of the earliest and most influential civil rights organization in the United States. During its early years, the NAACP focused on legal strategies designed to confront the critical civil rights issues of the day.
The mission of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People is to ensure the political, educational, social, and economic equality of rights of all persons and to eliminate race-based discrimination.
The NAACP is the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. The NAACP was started 12 February 1909 as an organization to promote the rights of minorities.
A: The acronym NAACP stands for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, and the organization was created in 1909 as part of the civil rights movement. The NAACP still exists today, and it is committed to ensuring that all people have rights and that race-based discrimination is eradicated worldwide.
The NAACP–the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People–is the most important organization in African-American politics, and historically it was the most visible organization in the 20th century struggle for freedom and equality.
The acronym NAACP stands for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (or in the alternative version proposed by Whoopie Goldberg, it stands for the Nati … onal Association for the Advancement of Certain People).