1 A painful sore or sores inside your mouth, on the tongue, soft palate (the back portion of the roof of your mouth), or inside your cheeks. 2  Sores in your mouth that are round, white, or grey in colour, with a red edge or border. Mouth ulcers: Symptoms, treatment and prevention. Mouth ulcers are sores that appear in the mouth, often on the inside of the cheeks. Mouth ulcers, also known as apthous ulcers, can be painful when eating, drinking or brushing teeth.
Found This Helpful. That painful sore on your tongue is actually a canker sore. These painful little sores, which are technically small ulcers, can appear anywhere in the mouth including the tongue. Luckily, treating your tongue sore is simple, as long as you remember to apply the remedies to your mouth on a regular basis until the sore disappears. 
Getting Rid of Mouth Ulcers. In order to get rid of the sores, you will first have to find out what kind of mouth ulcer you have—whether it's cold sore or canker sore. Keep in mind that the two are different conditions and as such, require different ways of treatment. For cold sores: 1  Use antiviral medications. 
Ulcers on tongue are also caused by tongue damage or trauma due to spicy foods or foods that are too hot. In some cases, having a stomach or peptic ulcer can also result in having tongue ulcers. The abuse of cigarettes and excessive consumption of alcoholic beverages can also cause ulcers on tongue. Toothpaste is good because if you have ulcers at the bottom of your mouth and it hurts when you clean your teeth the toothpaste can help clean them.
You may have a mouth ulcer if you have: 1  A painful sore or sores inside your mouth, on the tongue, soft palate (the back portion of the roof of your mouth), or inside your cheeks. 2  Sores in your mouth that are round, white, or grey in colour, with a red edge or border. Mouth ulcers: Symptoms, treatment and prevention. Mouth ulcers are sores that appear in the mouth, often on the inside of the cheeks. Mouth ulcers, also known as apthous ulcers, can be painful when eating, drinking or brushing teeth.
The main symptom of a canker sore is getting a shallow ulcer on your tongue or on the inside of your lip or cheek. The sore may be large or small, and it will have a red border and a white or yellow center. You might have more than one canker sore at a time. Canker sores usually begin with a burning or tingling feeling. Canker sores are not contagious. Canker sores may also develop when you: 1  Are stressed or tired. 2  Have your menstrual cycle, if you are a woman. 3  Hurt your mouth, such as biting your lip. 4  Have braces on your teeth. 5  Have food allergies. 6  Eating foods that you are allergic to may cause you to get a canker sore.
A canker sore is a shallow sore shaped like a crater (ulcer) on your tongue or on the inside of your lip or cheek. Canker sores have a red border and a white or yellow center. They may be painful and can make it hard to talk and eat. Canker sores are not contagious. Canker sores may also develop when you: 1  Are stressed or tired. 2  Have your menstrual cycle, if you are a woman. 3  Hurt your mouth, such as biting your lip. 4  Have braces on your teeth. 5  Have food allergies. 6  Eating foods that you are allergic to may cause you to get a canker sore.
1 If you don't have salt handy, or you can't handle the taste, use a pinch of baking soda instead. 2  Hold the saline solution in your mouth, and swish from side to side. 3  Spit the solution into the sink. 4  Don't swallow it — otherwise, you'll find yourself dehydrated. 5  Repeat a few times a day. 1 Hold the saline solution in your mouth, and swish from side to side. 2  Spit the solution into the sink. 3  Don't swallow it — otherwise, you'll find yourself dehydrated. 4  Repeat a few times a day. 5  It's a good idea to do it again after meals and before you go to bed. 6  Apply some honey on the ulcer.
1 The exact ratio isn't important, as long as you're not using so much salt that you can't keep the water in your mouth. 2  If you don't have salt handy, or you can't handle the taste, use a pinch of baking soda instead. 3  Hold the saline solution in your mouth, and swish from side to side. 4  Spit the solution into the sink. 1 Hold the saline solution in your mouth, and swish from side to side. 2  Spit the solution into the sink. 3  Don't swallow it — otherwise, you'll find yourself dehydrated. 4  Repeat a few times a day. 5  It's a good idea to do it again after meals and before you go to bed. 6  Apply some honey on the ulcer.