ABC News Photo Illustration. One argument against universal Pre-K is that most American kids already attend preschool. Parents pay for it themselves, and if they can't afford it, there are free programs like Head Start. But under a universal system, taxpayers would pay for every child, regardless of who needs it. Yet the president and many universal pre-K advocates point to statistics that claim for every $1 the government invests in pr-school, we will get $10 back.
Universal pre-K was one of President Obama's campaign promises, and most Americans agree with him. Sixty-seven percent of Americans think the government should pay for every child to go to preschool, according to a June 2008 poll by Peter D. Hart Research Associates/American Viewpoint. It all sounds so good. Yet the president and many universal pre-K advocates point to statistics that claim for every $1 the government invests in pr-school, we will get $10 back.
States use public dollars to fund pre-k programs in a variety of settings, including public schools, private non-profit and for-profit centers, and in regulated home childcare. Typically states fund preschool for three-, four-, and five-year-old children who have missed a cut-off date for enrollment in kindergarten. 1 Assessment of program outcomes has been difficult, largely due to the lack of data and newness of universal pre-k around the nation. 2  Studies in the US have not fully demonstrated the long term benefit of pre-k to middle income children, although studies in Australia and New Zealand with comparable demographics have.
The term universal pre-K means that pre-K programs are available to any child in a given state, regardless of family income, children’s abilities, or other factors. No, but close to 70% of state-funded pre-K programs are administered by public school systems (Gilliam 2005). The rest are delivered through community agencies including Head Start, grantees and private providers.
One argument against universal pre-K is that most American kids already attend pre-school. Parents pay for it themselves, and if they can't afford it, there are free programs like Head Start. But under a universal system, taxpayers would pay for every child, regardless of who needs it. Yet the president and many universal pre-K advocates point to statistics that claim for every $1 the government invests in pr-school, we will get $10 back.
There is no state that requires children younger than age five to attend pre-kindergarten programs. However, six states currently offer “universal” pre-K in some form. The states are Georgia, Maine, New York, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin. In addition, Florida voters have approved such a program by a ballot initiative. The Florida program is scheduled to begin in the 2005-06 school year. 
Share. The political fight over universal pre-K is over; now comes the hard part. In less than two years, Bill de Blasio promises that New York City will be able to offer full-day pre-K seats to 73,000 children — adding, in effect, a full grade to the nation’s largest school system. A lot of that might depend on money. As the Union Settlement Association’s David Nocenti has noted, the starting salary for a certified teacher in a public school pre-K is 25 percent higher than that of a same-credentialed teacher in a nonprofit CBO pre-K ($45,530 versus $36,542).
The start of public school on Thursday in New York City should be the usual merry scramble of chattering children and stressed (or relieved) parents. There will also be something new: a fresh crop of 4-year-olds, more than 50,000, embarking on the first day of free, full-day, citywide, city-run prekindergarten. 
Universal preschool is an international movement to use public funding to ensure high quality preschool (pre-k) is available to all families. 1  1 Publicly funded preschool in the US. 1 Assessment of program outcomes has been difficult, largely due to the lack of data and newness of universal pre-k around the nation. 2  Studies in the US have not fully demonstrated the long term benefit of pre-k to middle income children, although studies in Australia and New Zealand with comparable demographics have.