Steer right push-pull steering technique. Again, using either the 10:10 or 9:15 position, grip the wheel with your right hand and loosen your left hand. Pull the wheel using your right hand down to the six o’clock position and slid your left hand down to meet the right.
The hand-over-hand method turns the wheel a great distance in a relatively short period of time. Therefore, this method is typically used when making sharp turns (such as a U-turn) and when driving at slow speeds. When driving slowly, more steering input is required to turn your vehicle. While this method is popular, it isn’t as safe as the hand-to-hand method. In fact, some countries have outlawed hand-over-hand steering. It also exposes you to additional risk of injury to arms, hands, and face if the airbag deploys.
On your driving test, when steering a car, the examiner will expect you to: 1  Hold the steering wheel at either the ten-to-two or quarter-to-three position. 2  Steer smoothly and at the correct time. 3  Avoid crossing your hands over one another when turning.
5. When driving on a crowned road, you can gain more control of your vehicle by (1 point). pulling the steering wheel to the left. pulling the steering wheel to the right. slowing down and steering slightly toward the center of the highway. driving in the middle of the road.
Steer left push-pull steering technique. Using either the 10:10 or 915 position, grip the wheel with your left hand and loosen your right hand. Pull the wheel using your left hand down to the six o’clock position and slid your right hand down to meet your left.
For the driving test, although it is essential to maintain a high level of control when steering the car, it is a myth that examiners are looking for a constant and disciplined push pull steering technique throughout the driving test.
Push-pull steering is the standard and perhaps most recommended method of using a steering wheel to point the car in a specific direction. The method allows the driver to sit in a better position, with a better grip of the wheel and smoother turning.