Inflammation of the pancreas, also called pancreatitis, commonly causes high levels of amylase and lipase in the bloodstream. Amylase and lipase tests are used to detect this. These tests measure the amount of these enzymes circulating in your bloodstream. Sugars and fatty acids can then be absorbed by the small intestine. Some amylase and lipase can also be found in saliva and in the stomach, but most of it is made in the pancreas and released into the small intestine. In a healthy individual, a normal blood amylase level is 23-85 units per liter, (U/L).
Amylase is present in the saliva of humans and some other mammals, where it begins the chemical process of digestion. Foods that contain large amounts of starch but little sugar, such as rice and potatoes, may acquire a slightly sweet taste as they are chewed because amylase degrades some of their starch into sugar. Plants and some bacteria also produce amylase. As diastase, amylase was the first enzyme to be discovered and isolated (by Anselme Payen in 1833). Specific amylase proteins are designated by different Greek letters.
Cells in your pancreas make another type of amylase, called pancreatic amylase, which passes through a duct to reach your small intestine. Pancreatic amylase completes digestion of carbohydrate, producing glucose, a small molecule that is absorbed into your blood and carried throughout your body. Lipase is an enzyme that breaks down dietary fats into smaller molecules called fatty acids and glycerol. A small amount of lipase, called gastric lipase, is made by cells in your stomach. This enzyme specifically digests butter fat in your food.
Guide. An amylase test measures the amount of this enzyme in a sample of blood taken from a vein or in a sample of urine. Normally, only low levels of amylase are found in the blood or urine. But if the pancreas or salivary glands become damaged or blocked, more amylase is usually released into the blood and urine. In the blood, amylase levels rise for only a short time.
About 40% of the amylase in your body is made by your pancreas. The rest comes from your salivary glands. This test is used to find out whether your pancreas or your salivary glands are swollen. If you have a pancreatic disorder, your amylase levels are usually higher than normal. 
The blood amylase test is used to help diagnose and monitor acute pancreatitis. It is often ordered along with a lipase test. It may also be used to diagnose and monitor chronic pancreatitis and other disorders that may involve the pancreas. A urine amylase test may also be ordered. A urine amylase test may be ordered along with or following a blood amylase test. One or both may also be ordered periodically when a health practitioner wants to monitor a person to evaluate the effectiveness of treatment and to determine whether amylase levels are increasing or decreasing over time.
Although amylase, protease and lipase are the three main enzymes your body uses to digest food, many other specialized enzymes also help in the process. Cells that line your intestines make enzymes called maltase, sucrase and lactase, each able to convert a specific type of sugar into glucose. Lipase is an enzyme that breaks down dietary fats into smaller molecules called fatty acids and glycerol. A small amount of lipase, called gastric lipase, is made by cells in your stomach. This enzyme specifically digests butter fat in your food.
An amylase (/ˈaemɨleɪs/) ˈæmɨleɪs is an enzyme that catalyses the hydrolysis of starch into. Sugars amylase is present in the saliva of humans and some other, mammals where it begins the chemical process of. digestion Plants and some bacteria also produce amylase. As diastase, amylase was the first enzyme to be discovered and isolated (by Anselme Payen in 1833). Specific amylase proteins are designated by different Greek letters.
Amylase and lipase are key digestive enzymes. Amylase helps your body break down starch. Lipase helps your body digest fats. The pancreas, a glandular organ that sits behind the stomach, produces both of these enzymes. Sugars and fatty acids can then be absorbed by the small intestine. Some amylase and lipase can also be found in saliva and in the stomach, but most of it is made in the pancreas and released into the small intestine. In a healthy individual, a normal blood amylase level is 23-85 units per liter, (U/L).