The gallbladder is a small storage organ located inferior and posterior to the liver. Though small in size, the gallbladder plays an important role in our digestion of food. The gallbladder holds bile produced in the liver until it is needed for digesting fatty foods in the duodenum of the small intestine. Bile in the gallbladder may crystallize and form gallstones, which can become painful and potentially life threatening....
Your gallbladder's primary function is to receive bile that's generated by the liver, concentrate and mix it with mineral salts and enzymes, and then release the bile into the small intestine. The enzymes added by the gallbladder are essential to the proper digestion of fat. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The gallbladder stores and concentrates bile. Bile is made by the liver, and it is a substance that aids in fat digestion. Fat does not dissolve in water (try pouring olive oil into a glass of water and you'll see what I mean). Bile helps get the fat to dissolve-it's like soap. The gallbladder takes the bile from the liver and stores it so when you eat a big meal, or a fatty one, a large amount of bile can be squirted into the small intestine to help digest it. The gallbladder is not necessary for human beings to live. It can be removed without any problems in digestion most of the time.
The main purpose of the gallbladder is to store bile, also called gall. The gallbladder is part of the biliary system and serves as a reservoir for bile, which is produced by the liver. The liver produces the bile and then it flows through the hepatic ducts into the gallbladder. The bile that is secreted by the liver and stored in the gallbladder is not the same as the bile that is secreted by the gallbladder. During gallbladder storage of bile, it is concentrated by removal of some water and electrolytes.
Open gallbladder removal—or cholecystectomy —is surgery that offers permanent relief to a patient suffering from gallstones and other problems associated with the gallbladder. The gallbladder is a small organ located near the liver. It stores bile—which is a special fluid produced in the liver. Your gallbladder releases the bile into your small intestine in order to break down fats and help digest your food. However, normal digestion is possible without a gallbladder. Why Open Gallbladder Removal Is Done. A surgeon will remove your gallbladder if gallstones cause pain and other complications. Gallstones are hard deposits of substances in the bile that get stuck inside the gallbladder. They range in size from grains of sand to golf balls
Bile helps digest fats, but the gallbladder itself is not essential. Removing the gallbladder in an otherwise healthy individual typically causes no observable problems with health or digestion yet there may be a small risk of diarrhea and fat malabsorption. 1 Ultrasound is an excellent test for gallstones and to check the gallbladder wall. 2  HIDA scan (cholescintigraphy): In this nuclear medicine test, radioactive dye is injected intravenously and is secreted into the bile. 3  Cholecystitis is likely if the scan shows bile doesn’t make it from the liver into the gallbladder.
Gallbladder. The gallbladder is a pear-shaped, hollow structure located under the liver and on the right side of the abdomen. Its primary function is to store and concentrate bile, a yellow-brown digestive enzyme produced by the liver. The gallbladder is part of the biliary tract. The gallbladder serves as a reservoir for bile while it’s not being used for digestion. The gallbladder's absorbent lining concentrates the stored bile.
Front View of the Gallbladder. The gallbladder is a small pouch that sits just under the liver. The gallbladder stores bile produced by the liver. After meals, the gallbladder is empty and flat, like a deflated balloon. Before a meal, the gallbladder may be full of bile and about the size of a small pear. 1 Ultrasound is an excellent test for gallstones and to check the gallbladder wall. 2  HIDA scan (cholescintigraphy): In this nuclear medicine test, radioactive dye is injected intravenously and is secreted into the bile. 3  Cholecystitis is likely if the scan shows bile doesn’t make it from the liver into the g
In vertebrates the gallbladder (also gall bladder, biliary vesicle or cholecyst), is a small organ where bile (a fluid produced by the liver) is stored and concentrated before it is released into the small intestine. Humans can live without a gallbladder. The bile that is secreted by the liver and stored in the gallbladder is not the same as the bile that is secreted by the gallbladder. During gallbladder storage of bile, it is concentrated by removal of some water and electrolytes.