Bacopa contains bacosides and saponins which have a very beneficial effect on the brain’s neurotransmitters and also help to repair neurons that have become damaged. The bacosides in this herb possess antioxidant activity and help protect the brain from free radical damage. Description and History Of Bacopa. The Bacopa plant is a creeping herb which is small in size and has many branches. Its leaves are oblong and fleshy. It produces purple flowers and prefers moist to wet soil.
Bacopa monnieri, a plant commonly used in Ayurvedic medicine, has an age-old reputation for being an effective and powerful herb helpful for memory and combating stress. Bacopa monnieri, known to most as Brahmi, acts as an adaptogen; which means it helps the body adapt to new or stressful situations. The following 9 facts show the power and versatility of this therapeutic plant.
Bacopa Benefits. Bacopa is a tropical plant that is generally known for its cognitive and memory improving capabilities. In the Ayurvedic medicine system of India, Bacopa is very often prescribed for memory improvement as well as enhancing ones cognitive ability and to promote optimal brain function. It is especially good for improving attention and focus. Description and History Of Bacopa. The Bacopa plant is a creeping herb which is small in size and has many branches. Its leaves are oblong and fleshy. It produces purple flowers and prefers moist to wet soil.
About Bacopa. Bacopa, also known as Bacopa monnieri or Brahmi, is considered in traditional Ayurvedic medicine to possess adaptogenic, tranquilizing, and antioxidant properties. 
Print. Share. Bacopa monnieri, a plant commonly used in Ayurvedic medicine, has an age-old reputation for being an effective and powerful herb helpful for memory and combating stress. Bacopa monnieri, known to most as Brahmi, acts as an adaptogen; which means it helps the body adapt to new or stressful situations. The following 9 facts show the power and versatility of this therapeutic plant.
BACOPA Overview Information. Brahmi is a plant that has been used in traditional Indian medicine (Ayurveda). Be careful not to confuse brahmi (Bacopa monnieri) with gotu kola and other natural medicines that are also sometimes called brahmi.
Bacopa (Bacopa monnieri) is an herb native to India that has been used traditionally in Ayurvedic medicine to enhance memory, learning and concentration and also to treat anxiety, heart problems, digestive disorders, asthma, and bronchitis. 
Bacopa is a genus of 70 - 100 aquatic plants belonging to the family Plantaginaceae. It is commonly known as Waterhyssop (or Water Hyssop, though this is more misleading as Bacopa is not very closely related to hyssop but simply has a somewhat similar appearance). Habitat and range [edit]. Bacopa species are found in tropical and subtropical regions of the world, particularly the Americas. A few are regarded as weeds and excess stock should not be dumped in warmer regions.
Bacopa is a medicinal herb used in Ayurveda, where it is also known as Brahmi, after Brahmā, the creator God of the Hindu pantheon. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Bacopa monnieri (waterhyssop, brahmi, thyme-leafed gratiola, water hyssop, herb of grace, Indian pennywort) is a perennial, creeping herb native to the wetlands of southern India, Australia, Europe, Africa, Asia, and North and South America.
Bacopa Background and Benefits. Bacopa is a genus of up to 100 aquatic plants, with Bacopa monnieri being one its best known members. B. monneri is a perennial, creeping herb that grows in tropical wetlands throughout the world. It has many common names, including Bacopa, Indian pennywort, Brahmi, herb-of-grace, thyme-leafed gratiola and water hyssop. Memory support is one of the most common uses for bacopa extract in dietary supplements. It is also used to manage stress, support the respiration system and manage unhealthy inflammation.