Masculinity (also called boyhood, manliness or manhood) is a set of attributes, behaviors and roles generally associated with boys and men. It is a combination of socially-defined and biological factors, distinct from the definition of the male anatomical sex. Both men and women can exhibit masculine traits and behavior. Those exhibiting both masculine and feminine characteristics are considered androgynous, and feminist philosophers have argued that gender ambiguity may blur gender classification.
His masculinity, the masculinity of the fighting male, made its inevitable appeal to her, a female, moulded by all her heredity to seek out the strong man for mate, and to lean against the wall of his strength. Their masculinity, which in itself is of the brute, has been over-developed.
Strong.. Alpha.. Control.. These are just a few of the words traditionally associated with masculinity. We often hear men being described as manly or macho or effeminate -- concepts that seem to define individual men along a sliding scale of masculinity. 
Concepts of masculinity in the western world during the first half of the twentieth century were most often rigid and inextricably associated with images of industrialization, military power and conventional social gender roles. 1  Physical -- virile, athletic, strong, brave. In some cultures masculinity may be an indicator of social status as much as wealth, race or social class. In western culture, for example, greater masculinity usually brings greater social status for males among their peers.
Many sociologists criticized that definition of hegemonic masculinity as a fixed character-type, which is analytically limited, because it excludes the complexity of different, and competing, forms of masculinity. As a sociologic concept, the hegemonic nature of hegemonic masculinity derives from the theory of cultural hegemony, by Marxist theorist Antonio Gramsci, which analyzes the power relations among the social classes of a society.
1 Just like men can be feminine, women can be masculine. 2  The quality of masculinity is what makes someone masculine, not their gender. 3  Represented by the ability to detach from the situation, to evaluate it with an outside perspective. 1 It is the capacity of the Masculine to tap into the Void, that which is beyond. 2  Dedicating yourself to a life of service. 3  The Masculine person lives to give himself as a living sacrifice, knowing that it is the only way he can protect himself from Death (the person who is fully given can meet death with peace).
1 Not synonymous with man. 2  Just like men can be feminine, women can be masculine. 3  The quality of masculinity is what makes someone masculine, not their gender. 4  Represented by the ability to detach from the situation, to evaluate it with an outside perspective. 1 It is the capacity of the Masculine to tap into the Void, that which is beyond. 2  Dedicating yourself to a life of service. 3  The Masculine person lives to give himself as a living sacrifice, knowing that it is the only way he can protect himself from Death (the person who is fully given can meet death with peace).
The noun MASCULINITY has 2 senses: 1. the properties characteristic of the male sex. 2. the trait of behaving in ways considered typical for men. Familiarity information: MASCULINITY used as a noun is rare. 
In some non-English-speaking cultures, concepts and inanimate objects are considered masculine or feminine (the counterpart of masculine). An overemphasis on masculinity and power, often associated with a disregard for consequences and responsibility, is known as machismo. Both men and women can exhibit masculine traits and behavior. Those exhibiting both masculine and feminine characteristics are considered androgynous, and feminist philosophers have argued that gender ambiguity may blur gender classification.
On the nurture side of the debate, it is argued that masculinity does not have a single source. Although the military has a vested interest in constructing and promoting a specific form of masculinity, it does not create it. Both men and women can exhibit masculine traits and behavior. Those exhibiting both masculine and feminine characteristics are considered androgynous, and feminist philosophers have argued that gender ambiguity may blur gender classification.