Musical Impressionism is the name given to a movement in European classical music that arose in the late 19th century and continued into the middle of the 20th century. Originating in France, musical Impressionism is characterized by suggestion and atmosphere, and eschews the emotional excesses of the Romantic era. The term Impressionism has also been used to describe works of literature in which a few select details suffice to convey the sensory impressions of an incident or scene. Impressionist literature is closely related to Symbolism, with its major exemplars being Baudelaire, Mallarme, Mallarmé, rimbaud And. verlaine
10 most extreme places on Earth. Impressionism is a term that was first used to describe visual art in the late 19th century that emphasized the conveyance of an overall impression of a particular scene, usually outdoors, using primary colors and short brushstrokes to represent the appearance of reflected light. 
Impressionism covers approximately two decades, from the late 1860s through the 1880s. The term impressionist was first used by French art critic Louis Leroy in 1874 based on Monet's painting Impression, Sunrise. Leroy found the term fitting to describe the loose, undefined and unfinished style that Monet and several other artists applied to their paintings. 
Impressionism is a 19th-century art movement that originated with a group of Paris-based artists whose independent exhibitions brought them to prominence during the 1870s and 1880s. The term Impressionism has also been used to describe works of literature in which a few select details suffice to convey the sensory impressions of an incident or scene. Impressionist literature is closely related to Symbolism, with its major exemplars being Baudelaire, Mallarme, Mallarmé, rimbaud And. verlaine
Impressionism is a style of painting which began in France in the late 19th century. Impressionist painting shows life-like subjects painted in a broad, rapid style, with brushstrokes that are easily seen and colours that are often bright. The term 'impressionism' comes from a painting by Claude Monet, which he showed in an exhibition with the name Impression, soleil levant (Impression, Sunrise). An art critic called Louis Leroy saw the exhibition and wrote a review in which he said that all the paintings were just impressions. The word stuck.
Post-Impressionism (also spelled Postimpressionism) is a predominantly French art movement that developed roughly between 1886 and 1905; from the last Impressionist exhibition to the birth of Fauvism. The term Post-Impressionism was coined by the British artist and art critic Roger Fry, in 1910, to describe the development of French art since Manet. Fry used the term when he organized the 1910 exhibition, Manet and the Post-Impressionists
Claude Monet, Impression, Sunrise, (1872), oil on canvas, Musee Musée. Marmottan impressionism is a style of painting which began In france in the late 19th. Century impressionist painting shows-life like subjects painted in a, broad rapid, style with brushstrokes that are easily seen and colours that are often. bright The term 'impressionism' comes from a painting by Claude Monet, which he showed in an exhibition with the name Impression, soleil levant (Impression, Sunrise). An art critic called Louis Leroy saw the exhibition and wrote a review in which he said that all the paintings were just impressions. The word stuck.
Impressionism is a 19th century artistic movement that swept much of the painting and sculpture styles of the period. It was not just a passing fad but has defined an entirely modern way of expressing one’s artistry that eventually rubbed off in other art forms like literature and photography. A group of artists composed of Claude Monet, Edgar Degas, Camille Pissarro, and a few others organized the group during the latter part of 1873 and were subsequently joined by Paul Cezanne, Auguste Renoir, Alfred Sisley and Berthe Morisot among the noted artists of the time.