Physical. By definition, somatic symptom disorders are not accompanied by physical findings or a medical illness that explains the symptoms. Physical examination may demonstrate multiple operations in unsuccessful attempts to diagnose or relieve symptoms. At least one somatic symptom that results in significant disruption in everyday life. Significant actions, thoughts, or feelings about the symptoms. Somatic symptom actions, thoughts, or feelings are excessively time consuming, out of proportion to the degree of seriousness, or accompanied by a high level of anxiety.
Somatic symptom disorders are not the result of conscious malingering (fabricating or exaggerating symptoms for secondary motives) or factitious disorders (deliberately producing, feigning, or exaggerating symptoms). Somatic symptom disorder is difficult to diagnose and treat. A diagnosis of somatic symptom disorder requires that the subject have recurring somatic complaints for at least six months. Symptoms are sometimes similar to those of other illnesses and may last for years. Usually, the symptoms begin appearing during adolescence, and patients are diagnosed before the age of 30 years.
A somatic symptom disorder, formerly known as a somatoform disorder, is a category of mental disorder included in a number of diagnostic schemes of mental illness, including the DSM-5. A diagnosis of somatic symptom disorder requires that the subject have recurring somatic complaints for at least six months. Symptoms are sometimes similar to those of other illnesses and may last for years. Usually, the symptoms begin appearing during adolescence, and patients are diagnosed before the age of 30 years.
Somatic symptom disorder. Somatic symptom disorder is diagnosed when significant somatic symptoms are present. In contrast, individuals with illness anxiety disorder have minimal somatic symptoms and are primarily concerned with the idea they are ill. The principles behind the changes in the somatic symptom and related diagnoses from DSM-IV are crucial in understanding the DSM-5 diagnoses. The DSM-IV term somatoform disorders was confusing and is replaced by somatic symptom and related disorders.
Doctors used to diagnose this type of mental health disorder (sometimes called psychosomatic or somatoform disorders—see Overview of Somatic Symptom and Related Disorders) when people reported physical symptoms that were not explained by a physical disorder. People with somatic symptom disorder do not intentionally produce or pretend to have the symptoms, and the symptoms may or may not be associated with another medical problem.
1 Conversion disorder: A somatic symptom disorder involving the actual loss of bodily function such as blindness, paralysis, and numbness due to excessive anxiety. 2  Illness anxiety disorder: A somatic symptom disorder involving persistent and excessive worry about developing a serious illness. A diagnosis of somatic symptom disorder requires that the subject have recurring somatic complaints for at least six months. Symptoms are sometimes similar to those of other illnesses and may last for years. Usually, the symptoms begin appearing during adolescence, and patients are diagnosed before the age of 30 years.
Somatoform disorders are mental illnesses that cause bodily symptoms, including pain. The symptoms can't be traced back to any physical cause. And they are not the result of substance abuse or another mental illness. People with somatoform disorders are not faking their symptoms. The pain and other problems they experience are real. The symptoms can significantly affect daily functioning.
When physical symptoms considered to be somatic symptom disorder occur, it can be difficult to accept that a life-threatening illness has been eliminated as the cause. Symptoms cause very real distress for the person and reassurance isn't always helpful. 1 Specific sensations, such as pain or shortness of breath, or more general symptoms, such as fatigue or weakness. 2  Unrelated to any medical cause that can be identified, or related to a medical condition such as cancer or heart disease, but more significant than what's usually expected.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder. In somatic symptom disorder, the recurrent ideas about somatic symptoms or illness are less intrusive, and individuals with this disorder do not exhibit the associated repetitive behaviors aimed at reducing anxiety that occur in obsessive-compulsive disorder. The principles behind the changes in the somatic symptom and related diagnoses from DSM-IV are crucial in understanding the DSM-5 diagnoses. The DSM-IV term somatoform disorders was confusing and is replaced by somatic symptom and related disorders.