How You Get Strep Throat. Strep throat is an infection in the throat and tonsils caused by group A Streptococcus bacteria (called group A strep). Group A strep bacteria can also live in a person's nose and throat without causing illness. The bacteria are spread through contact with droplets after an infected person coughs or sneezes. 
Strep throat is a bacterial infection in the throat and the tonsils. The throat gets irritated and inflamed, causing a sudden, severe sore throat. Strep throat is caused by streptococcal (strep) bacteria. There are many different types of strep bacteria. Some cause more serious illness than others. 
Strep throat is a bacterial infection that causes inflammation and pain in the throat. This common condition is caused by group A streptococcus bacteria. Strep throat can affect children and adults of all ages. However, it is especially common in children between the ages of 5 and 15 (NLM, 2011) . Sneezing and coughing can spread the infection from person-to-person. 
Although, by definition, strep throat is caused by the Streptococcus pyogenes bacteria, other bacteria can occasionally invade the throat and cause similar symptoms. Other possible bacterial invaders include staphylococcus, neisseria and Haemophilus influenzae. 
Streptococcus Bacteria. More specifically Group A Streptococcus bacteria. Group A is a designation of a specific type of antigen in the cell wall that this bacterial group pos … sess. The most common culprit to cause strep throat is the bacterium Streptococcus pyogenes. Strep throat is caused by various types of bacteria called Group A streptococcal bacteria. These bacteria cause other common infections also, such as tonsillitis and scarlet f … ever. Fungi and algee. 2 people found this useful.
Strep throat is an infection in the throat and tonsils caused by group A Streptococcus bacteria (called group A strep). Group A strep bacteria can also live in a person's nose and throat without causing illness. The bacteria are spread through contact with droplets after an infected person coughs or sneezes. Strep Throat. Caused by a group A streptococcal infection. Common symptoms include fever, sore throat, and enlarged lymph nodes. Strep throat is a contagious infection, spread through close contact with an infected individual. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: Wikipedia). Symptoms Treatments.
Patient Comments Read 11 Comments Share Your Story. Strep throat is caused by infection with Group A Streptococcus (GAS) bacteria, specifically Streptococcus pyogenes. The streptococcal infection invades the pharyngeal tissue and causes a localized inflammatory reaction of the throat and tonsils. Strep throat is a contagious disease caused by infection with streptococcal bacteria, which causes inflammation and swelling of the mucous membranes lining the back of the throat and the tonsils.
Strep throat is caused by various types of bacteria called Group A streptococcal bacteria. These bacteria cause other common infections also, such as tonsillitis and scarlet fever. More specifically Group A Streptococcus bacteria. Group A is a designation of a specific type of antigen in the cell wall that this bacterial group pos … sess. The most common culprit to cause strep throat is the bacterium Streptococcus pyogenes.
Streptococcal pharyngitis, streptococcal tonsillitis, or streptococcal sore throat (known colloquially as strep throat) is a type of pharyngitis caused by a group A streptococcal infection. It affects the pharynx including the tonsils and possibly the larynx. Common symptoms include fever, sore throat, and enlarged lymph nodes. It is the cause of 15–40% of sore throats among children and 5–15% in adults. Strep throat is a contagious infection, spread through close contact with an infected individual.
Strep throat is caused by streptococcal (strep) bacteria, most often by group A beta-hemolytic streptococcus (GABS). Other types of strep that can sometimes infect the throat are groups C and G strep bacteria. How the strep infection is spread. Strep throat can be passed from person to person. When a person infected with strep throat breathes, coughs, or sneezes, tiny droplets containing the strep bacteria are released into the air and are breathed in by other people.