A photoreceptor cell is a specialized type of neuron found in the retina that is capable of phototransduction. The great biological importance of photoreceptors is that they convert light (visible electromagnetic radiation) into signals that can stimulate biological processes. To be more specific, photoreceptor proteins in the cell absorb photons, triggering a change in the cell's membrane potential. The two classic photoreceptor cells are rods and cones, each contributing information used by the visual system to form a representation of the visual world, sight.
Rod Details. The rods are the most numerous of the photoreceptors, some 120 million, and are the more sensitive than the cones. However, they are not sensitive to color. They are responsible for our dark-adapted, or scotopic, vision. The rods are incredibly efficient photoreceptors. However, they are not sensitive to color. The 6 to 7 million cones provide the eye's color sensitivity and they are much more concentrated in the central yellow spot known as the macula. In the center of that region is the  fovea centralis , a 0.3 mm diameter rod-free area with very thin, densely packed cones.
The shorter the duration of the pre-adapting light, the more rapid the decrease in dark adaptation (figure 3). For extremely short pre-adaptation periods, a single rod curve is obtained. It is only after long pre-adaptation that a bi-phasic, cone and rod branches are obtained. When stimuli of different wavelengths are used, the dark adaptation curve is affected. From figure 7 below, a rod-cone break is not seen when using light of long wavelengths such as extreme red. This occurs due to rods and cones having similar sensitivities to light of long wavelengths (figure 8).
The human eye can function from very dark to very bright levels of light; its sensing capabilities reach across nine orders of magnitude. This means that the brightest and the darkest light signal that the eye can sense are a factor of roughly 1,000,000,000 apart. However, in any given moment of time, the eye can only sense a contrast ratio of one thousand. What enables the wider reach is that the eye adapts its definition of what is black. In ocular physiology, adaptation is the ability of the eye to adjust to various levels of darkness and light.
Dark adaptation. overtime photoreceptors can build addtitional photopigments to see better in the dark, this is something the rods do.   . or 3 color theory color vision by mixing 3 wave lengths. red=long, green=medium, blue=short. 3 different types of cones, we have found there are these different cones. 
A major difference between day and night vision is inhibition and convergence, the way the photoreceptors are wired together, and the amount of light-sensitive photopigment available. Moreover, most night vision occurs in a mixed rod/cone mode. 
Photoreceptors by Helga Kolb. Helga Kolb. Two or three types of cone photoreceptor and a single type of rod photoreceptor are present in the normal mammalian retina. Some non-mammalian retinas have even more cone types (see later). 1. Light microscopy and ultrastructure of rods and cones. There also appears to be a pathway for crosstalk between cones and cones and cones and rods in the human retina. Cone pedicles have small projections from their sides or bases that pass to neighboring rod spherules and cone pedicles.
Michael Kalloniatis and Charles Luu. Dark Adaptation. The eye operates over a large range of light levels. The sensitivity of our eye can be measured by determining the absolute intensity threshold, that is, the minimum luminance of a test spot required to produce a visual sensation. When stimuli of different wavelengths are used, the dark adaptation curve is affected. From figure 7 below, a rod-cone break is not seen when using light of long wavelengths such as extreme red. This occurs due to rods and cones having similar sensitivities to light of long wavelengths (figure 8).
Click here to view the animated graph. Some points to note about the dark adaptation function: * Cone sensitivity adjustment lasts for about 4 to 5 minutes; rods increase their sensitivity for 20 to 30 minutes or so. * At about 7 minutes rod sensitivity first matches that of cones, a point called the rod-cone break. Dark Adaptation. You've probably noticed that when you enter a darkened area from a well lit area (e.g., going to a movie), that you have difficulty seeing at first, but after a while, you can see much more effectively.