Definition: ARP converts an Internet Protocol (IP) address to its corresponding physical network address. ARP is a low-level network protocol, operating at Layer 2 of the OSI model. ARP usually is implemented in the device drivers of network operating systems. 
ARP(ADDRESS RESOLUTION PROTOCOL) is a network layer protocol which associates the physical hardware address of a network node(commonly known as a MAC ADDRESS) to its ip address. now an ARP creates a table known as ARP CACHE/TABLE that maps ip addresses to the hardware addressess of nodes on the local network. ARP stands for Address Resolution Protocol. Application working at the Application Layer uses IP address (Logical Address) for communication and at the Datalink layer the addressing is based on MAC address (Physical address, which is a permanant address burned in your computer's network card).
ARP stood for 'Air Raid Precautions'. The ARP wardens were known for their overzealous attitude to their job and were scourned by the population for their pettyness in c … arring out their duties. The ARP wardens made sure that;-   1)All civilians carried gas masks at all times.
The Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) is a telecommunication protocol used for resolution of network layer addresses into link layer addresses, a critical function in multiple-access networks. ARP was defined by RFC 826 in 1982. This property places ARP into the Link Layer of the Internet Protocol Suite, while in the Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) model, it is often described as residing between Layers 2 and 3, being encapsulated by Layer 2 protocols. However, ARP was not developed in the OSI framework.
Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) is a protocol for mapping an Internet Protocol address (IP address) to a physical machine address that is recognized in the local network. When an incoming packet destined for a host machine on a particular local area network arrives at a gateway, the gateway asks the ARP program to find a physical host or MAC address that matches the IP address.
The Windows command arp stands for address resolution  protocol which simply transforms an IP address to its  corresponding physical network address.    And 'arp-a' … simply lists down the physical  network addresses of the network devices connected to the current  PC. 1 person found this useful. Aqn. It's a response to a broadcast asking for the devices MAC ID. Routers and switches keep a table known as an ARP table which lists all the MAC ID's in the local area network. I … t will send ARP requests out to all the nodes in it's broadcast domain saying send me your MAC ID's.
REEF May 30th, 2005 ARP is the acronym for Address Resolution Protocol. It is an internet protocol that gets the MAC address of a host or node and creates a local db that maps the MAC address to the hosts IP address. ARP needs the IP because IP must have the address of a destination host before it can direct data to it. ARP stands for Address Resolution Protocol. Application working at the Application Layer uses IP address (Logical Address) for communication and at the Datalink layer the addressing is based on MAC address (Physical address, which is a permanant address burned in your computer's network card).
The address resolution protocol (arp) is a protocol used by theInternet Protocol (IP) , specifically IPv4, to map IP network addresses to the hardware addresses used by a data … link protocol. The protocol operates below the network layer as a part of the interface between the OSI network and OSI link layer. It's a response to a broadcast asking for the devices MAC ID. Routers and switches keep a table known as an ARP table which lists all the MAC ID's in the local area network. I … t will send ARP requests out to all the nodes in it's broadcast domain saying send me your MAC ID's.
(The physical machine address is also known as a Media Access Control or MAC address .) A table, usually called the ARP cache, is used to maintain a correlation between each MAC address and its corresponding IP address. When an incoming packet destined for a host machine on a particular local area network arrives at a gateway, the gateway asks the ARP program to find a physical host or MAC address that matches the