Reports regarding the longest recorded sniper kill that contain information regarding the shooting distance and the identity of the sniper have been presented to the general public since 1967. Snipers in modern warfare have had a long history since the development of long distance weaponry. For example, the Canadian Army 2002 sniper team that saw two soldiers (Arron Perry /2,310 m and Rob Furlong /2,430 m) set consecutive new records, also made a number of kills at 1,500 m that are not counted here.
What is the longest rifle shot ever made or the longest anyone knows of? I don't mean sniper combat shots. If you Google longest rifle shot all you get is sniper shots. I believe the longest combat shot is about 3,070 yards. But I know there are guys that have made longer shots on paper/prairie dogs/milk jugs etc. The longest sniper shot was made by an Australian sniper at 3,079 yards with an M82A1 .50 BMG. I have spoken with Gordy Gritters about his 3600+ yard shots. Just needed to know if anyone had shot further
The science of long-range sniping came to fruition in the Vietnam War. Carlos Hathcock held the record from 1967 to 2002 at 2,286 m (2,500 yd). He recorded 93 official kills before an injury halted his service on the front lines. For example, the Canadian Army 2002 sniper team that saw two soldiers (Arron Perry /2,310 m and Rob Furlong /2,430 m) set consecutive new records, also made a number of kills at 1,500 m that are not counted here.
About three years ago, “American Sniper” Chris Kyle appeared on “Conan” with host Conan O’Brien while promoting his book of the same name, and O’Brien was clearing impressed with some of Kyle’s accomplishments. Among them, the longest confirmed kill Kyle had ever made in a combat situation — 2,100 yards. “Which is 21 football fields away,” O’Brien said, in obvious awe. “I can’t even understand making a shot from that distance.”. “I can’t either,” Kyle responded, drawing laughter from the audience.
Most of the longest sniper shots recorded have taken place since the turn of the century—though the fifth longest shot took place clear back in the 60s! 5. Gunnery Sergeant Carlos Hathcock. This U.S. marine is still considered a legend, and rightly so. 
A year before his death at the beginning of 2013, Chris Kyle appeared as a guest on Conan O’Brien’s late night talk show. As he was touring for his book “ American Sniper, ” Kyle talked about his tours overseas, and how his longest confirmed kill was a whopping 2,100 yards away. “Which is 21 football fields away. I can’t even understand making a shot from that distance,” O’Brien joked.
What is the longest rifle shot ever made or the longest anyone knows of? I don't mean sniper combat shots. If you Google longest rifle shot all you get is sniper shots. I believe the longest combat shot is about 3,070 yards. But I know there are guys that have made longer shots on paper/prairie dogs/milk jugs etc.