For example, say that your lease ended on September 30, 2008, but you paid and the landlord accepted rent for October, 2008. Two weeks later, you get a job offer and have to move. In most states, you’ll have to give the landlord 20-30 days notice before leaving, otherwise you’ll have to pay rent for November.
Before you move out, you have to let your landlord know that you are leaving. This is called giving notice.. You need to give written notice to your landlord. You can do this by filling out a form from the Landlord and Tenant Board or by writing a letter that includes specific information. How much time or notice you have to give your landlord depends on your rental agreement: 1  If you pay rent by the day or week, you must give 28 days notice (for example, if you want to leave on March 1, you have to give notice by February 1). 2  If you pay rent by the month, you must generally give 60 days notice
If you have a lease for more than 30 days (e.g. 1-year lease), your rent cannot be increased during the term of the lease, unless the lease allows rent increases. If you have a periodic rental agreement (month-to-month), your landlord can increase your rent, but must give you proper advance notice in writing. As of January 1, 2001, a landlord must give the tenant at least 30 days’ advance notice if the rent increase is 10 percent (or less) of the rent charged at any time during the 12 months before the rent increase takes effect. A landlord must give 60 days’ advance notice if the rent increase is greater than 10 percent.
1 If you pay rent by the day or week, you must give 28 days notice (for example, if you want to leave on March 1, you have to give notice by February 1). 2  If you pay rent by the month, you must generally give 60 days notice. 3  If your lease is fixed for a period longer than a month, you must generally give 60 days notice. You need to give written notice to your landlord. You can do this by filling out a form from the Landlord and Tenant Board or by writing a letter that includes specific information. How much time or notice you have to give your landlord depends on your rental agreement:
A landlord can end a periodic tenancy (for example, a month-to-month tenancy) by giving the tenant proper advance written notice. Your landlord must give you 60 days advance written notice that the tenancy will end if you and every other tenant or resident have lived in the rental unit for a year or more. You must give the landlord the same amount of notice as there are days between rent payments. This means that if you pay rent monthly, you must give the landlord written notice at least 30 days before you move.
Report Abuse. If your tenants signed a month to month rental agreement, normally you would have to notify them in writing 30 days in advance that you now want them to move out of your rental unit. Failure on their part not to move you might have to start eviction procedures against them. 
· just now. Report Abuse. Since you are on a lease, when the lease expires and is not renewed you have to be out at the end of the lease expiration date. If the landlord allows you to covert the lease into a month to month agreement after the first month he would have to give you 30 days notice in most states. In my state, California, since you have lived in the property more than 12 months he would have to give you 60 days to move. At the end of a lease period there is no legal obligation for either the landlord or the tenant to give any notice. 
If you are a tenant at will (no written lease), you must give your landlord a 30 day written notice. The notice period should end on a rent day. You and your landlord can agree to a shorter notice period, if you agree in writing. If you have a lease, read it to see what kind of notice you must give. For example, your rent is $500 a month and you moved out on the 10th day of the month without notice. Your landlord re-rents the apartment on the 15th of the month. You owe $250, or half a month's rent. Your landlord may charge you reasonable expenses for re-renting the apartment if you did not give the right notice.
The landlord must receive written notice of your move-out date 20 days before the end of the rental period. For example, if your rent is due on the first of the month, and you plan to vacate by 30th, then the landlord must receive your written notice by the 10th of the month. I’m a month-to-month tenant. If you do not give your landlord proper 20 days written notice, according to RCW 59.18.310, your landlord can charge you for the following month’s rent.