The average menstrual cycle lasts 28 days. For some women, though, cycles can be as short as 21 days. For others, they can be as long as 35 days. A normal period lasts between two and seven days. The average length of time for a period is three to five days.
The menstrual cycle is measured from the first day of menstrual bleeding, Day 1, up to Day 1 of your next menstrual bleeding. Although 28 days is the average cycle length, it is normal to have a cycle that is shorter or longer. 1  A teen's cycles may be long (up to 45 days), growing shorter over several years. 
The length of the menstrual cycle varies from woman to woman, but the average is to have periods every 28 days. Regular cycles that are longer or shorter than this, from 24 to 35 days, are normal. A period is made up of blood and the womb lining. The first day of a woman's period is day one of the menstrual cycle. Periods last around three to seven days, and women lose about three to five tablespoons of blood in a period,” says Belfield.
Report Abuse. With my friends and family, I have seen anywhere from 2 days to over 2 weeks. If a woman has uterine fibroids, the periods can last a very long time. In addition, some women can have a period for a few days, have it stop for a few days and then come back just as strong. Best Answer: Each women differs. A period can last from 3 days to a week. It is even possible for a women to have it longer. It is very normal for the period to last longer then 7 days. Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Menstrual_c...
It also prepares your body for pregnancy each month. A cycle is counted from the first day of 1 period to the first day of the next period. The average menstrual cycle is 28 days long. Cycles can range anywhere from 21 to 35 days in adults and from 21 to 45 days in young teens. The rise and fall of levels of hormones during the month control the menstrual cycle. But, anywhere from 2 to 7 days is normal. For the first few years after menstruation begins, longer cycles are common. A woman's cycle tends to shorten and become more regular with age. Most of the time, periods will be in the range of 21 to 35 days apart.
The menstrual cycle is from Day 1 of bleeding to Day 1 of the next time of bleeding. Although the average cycle is 28 days, it is normal to have a cycle that is shorter or longer. Girls usually start having menstrual periods between the ages of 11 and 14. Women usually start to have fewer periods between ages 39 and 51. Women in their 40s and teens may have cycles that are longer or change a lot. If you are a teen, your cycles should even out with time.
The menstrual cycle, which is counted from the first day of one period to the first day of the next, isn't the same for every woman. Menstrual flow might occur every 21 to 35 days and last two to seven days. For the first few years after menstruation begins, long cycles are common. 
The average age of the first period is generally later in the developing world and earlier in developed world. The typical length of time between the first day of one period and the first day of the next is 21 to 45 days in young women and 21 to 31 days in adults (an average of 28 days). Menstruation stops occurring after menopause which usually occurs between 45 and 55 years of age. Bleeding usually lasts around 2 to 7 days. The length of a woman's menstrual cycle typically varies somewhat, with some shorter cycles and some longer cycles. A woman who experiences variations of less than eight days between her longest cycles and shortest cycles is considered to have regular menstrual cycles.