Average 2-Year Hosting Contract Cost: $5.95/month. Average 1-Year Web hosting purchase pricing: $6.95/month. Average Price includes a Free Website Builder: Free Website Builder included at no extra cost! Thanks again for your question around the pricing and cost structure for web hosting today. Average web hosting costs for dedicated servers is quite different. In our opinion, you are probably look at between $99-$129 for an average, entry level dedicated hosting pricing. Keep in mind that the variability around average hosting prices for dedicated servers is much greater than that of shared hosting.
Monthly, you should expect to pay for your website hosting, SEO, other ongoing optimization, any content creation, link building services, and special design projects. This may cost anywhere from $100 to $1000 a month. As website creation has become more streamlined in recent years, the cost of a website has gone down, making it a more effective investment than ever for new businesses. The average cost of a website, particularly basic websites, is now lower than ever.
In our opinion, the average hosting cost today is around the $5-7 per month range; with a two-year purchase. You see, when you buy web hosting with different contract periods, the average web hosting cost that you pay will vary. A longer-contract will enable a lower average web hosting price. Average web hosting costs for dedicated servers is quite different. In our opinion, you are probably look at between $99-$129 for an average, entry level dedicated hosting pricing. Keep in mind that the variability around average hosting prices for dedicated servers is much greater than that of shared hosting.
While the cost of a basic website has dropped, the need for more interactivity has helped hold steady the price of a high-end, competitive design. As of 2015, you should expect to pay between $2,250 and $10,000 for a fully functional small business website. As website creation has become more streamlined in recent years, the cost of a website has gone down, making it a more effective investment than ever for new businesses. The average cost of a website, particularly basic websites, is now lower than ever.
As a result, the average cost for website design on a basic level is lower then ever before. These factors have also led to some unforeseen results. Most notably, in the last five years, the cost of web design has become more disparate. As website creation has become more streamlined in recent years, the cost of a website has gone down, making it a more effective investment than ever for new businesses. The average cost of a website, particularly basic websites, is now lower than ever.
The $5-7 dollar range we provided is the average hosting cost for Linux hosting. The average hosting cost for Windows hosting is higher, between $8 for a company like IX Web Hosting and $10 for a provider such as StartLogic. StartLogic's average hosting cost is $8.95 per month for Windows. Average web hosting costs for dedicated servers is quite different. In our opinion, you are probably look at between $99-$129 for an average, entry level dedicated hosting pricing. Keep in mind that the variability around average hosting prices for dedicated servers is much greater than that of shared hosting.
For example, you may factor in the cost of a new logo design or a website redesign, which are typically one-time-only items. If your Internet marketing company performs the same tasks month after month with only one or two special tasks or assignments, your yearly costs will range anywhere from $1500 to $15,000. As website creation has become more streamlined in recent years, the cost of a website has gone down, making it a more effective investment than ever for new businesses. The average cost of a website, particularly basic websites, is now lower than ever.
They also estimated that a custom WordPress theme will cost around $3,000 – $6,000 (for design and development), and a custom WordPress website is around $6,000 – $15,000 (for design and development, with custom plugins). You can see their estimates here. 
Template design tools are often included in Web hosting packages that typically cost $250 to $500 each year, including a number of email addresses. Related Reading: The Average Purchase Amount for a Pricing Strategy. The entry-level custom website is the most common starting point for small companies. They typically include five to seven pages of information that is fully branded with a company&#039;s logo, color scheme, photos and copy.
The average cost, across the board, for a standard brochure-type website from a design firm (such as myself) ranges between * $1,500-$4,000. 