: something (such as an interesting fact or event) that can be observed and studied and that typically is unusual or difficult to understand or explain fully. : someone or something that is very impressive or popular especially because of an unusual ability or quality. plural phe·nom·e·na \-nə, -ˌnae\ ˌnä or·phe·nom·e. nons
In general, apart from its specialized use as a term in philosophy, phenomenon stands for any observable event. Phenomena make up the raw data of science. It was an attempt to explain phenomena like; earthquakes, lightning, rain, fire, sunrise, thunderstorm, rusting that lead to the development of modern science.
A suggested explanation for an observable phenomenon or prediction of a possible causal correlation among multiple phenomena. In science, a theory is a well-substantiated, unifying explanation for a set of verified, proven hypotheses.
Phenomena has been in occasional use as a singular for more than 400 years and its plural phenomenas for more than 350. Our evidence shows that it is primarily a speech form used by poets, critics, and professors, among others, but one that sometimes turns up in edited prose.
Diffen › English Language › Grammar › Words. A hypothesis is either a suggested explanation for an observable phenomenon, or a reasoned prediction of a possible causal correlation among multiple phenomena. In science, a theory is a tested, well-substantiated, unifying explanation for a set of verified, proven factors.
2. plural phenomena a: an object or aspect known through the senses rather than by thought or intuition b: a temporal or spatiotemporal object of sensory experience as distinguished from a noumenon c: a fact or event of scientific interest susceptible to scientific description and explanation.
Medical Definition of PHENOMENON. 1. : an observable fact or event. 2. a: an object or aspect known through the senses rather than by thought or intuition b: a fact or event of scientific interest susceptible of scientific description and explanation.
A phenomenon (plural: phenomena) is an observable event, particularly something special (literally something that can be seen, derived from the Greek word phainomenon = observable).