The agriculturally important microorganisms come from bacteria, actinomycetes, blue green algae (BGA), fungi-including vesicular arbuscular mycorrhizae (VAM) - and viruses. Microorganisms in the rhizosphere are known to act in synergy with crops. The rhizosphere is generally defined as the soil region under the influence of the root. It includes the rhizoplane (surface of the root) and the endorhizosphere (intercellular space between the root tissues inhabited by non-symbiotic bacteria).
Split and merge into it. Answer by Shinjiwon24. Confidence votes 330. Bacteria are important because they produce a community's food chain and a type of gas called methane. They recycle nutrients, help bread rise, make alcohol, and help make yogurt and cheese. You would die without bacteria in your body
Microbial decomposition releases nutrients into the environment that are needed by other organisms. Microbes are also involved in the cycling of many other important compounds in — and between — ecosystems, including oxygen, carbon and nitrogen. 
They can live even in the most heated areas and in most cold environment. They are beneficent for the ecosystem as they help to decompose, produce oxygen and create symbiotic relationship with higher organisms.... Microorganisms are the important part of the ecosystem of the planet earth. They are usually unicellular and cannot be seen without naked eye. If there were no microorganisms on earth, the ecosystem would have died by now because they help in degradation of the dead materials. There are many important functions of the microorganisms in the ecosystem of the earth. Some of them are as follows. Decompositions:- Microorganisms are the main source of decomposition. When an animal or human die, they penetrate in their bodies and deep inside, they start digesting the dead skin and other organs
Bacteria also break down the matter in compost heaps, which are used for fertilizer. Some other ways that bacteria are important: 1. Bacteria are also very important to some industries such as the production of cheese, yogurt, buttermilk, vinegar, and sauerkraut. 2. They are used in the preparation of antibiotics such as Streptomycin. It is important to understand, contrary to popular belief that most bacteria are harmful, they are actually quite the opposite. Only a small fraction of bacteria actually cause disease, they usually attack already dead matter.
[ TOP ]. MICROORGANISMS Microorganisms are of major important in industrial wastewater treatment, agricultural and aquaculture. They reside in the sediment and other substrates, and in the water of aquaculture facilities, as well as in and on the cultured species. 
Microorganisms are economically important because they help in the production of many foods. Microorganisms such as bacteria fertilize soil; therefore, without microorga … nisms we would not be able to grow crops. 5 people found this useful. Microorganisms and microscopic organisms. They are important to  biodiversity because they act as decomposers in ecosystems that  nutrient recycle and they also play an impo … rtant role in the  nitrogen cycle. + 2 others found this useful.
Organisms from the kingdom Monera are important to us in many ways. It is important to understand, contrary to popular belief that most bacteria are harmful, they are actually quite the opposite. Only a small fraction of bacteria actually cause disease, they usually attack already dead matter.