In the 2010-11 edition of the Occupational Outlook Handbook, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) reports that the job outlook for RNs – including telemetry nurses – remains excellent. Employment of nurses is predicted to grow much faster than other occupations from 2008 through 2018. Since constant monitoring is required for patients within a telemetry unit, hospitals need to have telemetry RNs on duty 24/7. These nurses often work long shifts, including nights, weekends and holidays.
Salary of a Cardiac Nurse. As reported by the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, the average salary for an RN was approximately $52,330 in 2006. According to Education Portal, cardiac nurses fall into the category of RNs. 
(United States). Telemetry Nurses in the United States take home an average $27.09 per hour. The pay spectrum stretches from $22.18 per hour to $39.21. Though the majority of Telemetry Nurses do not report high levels of job satisfaction, most are moderately content with their role. Men are in the minority of survey respondents, with female Telemetry Nurses making up 79 percent. Medical benefits are awarded to most, and a strong majority earn dental coverage. Respondents to the PayScale salary survey provided the data for this report
According to multiple sources, the average salary for a telemetry nurse is between $55,000 and $57,000, although travel nurses can apparently expect to earn significantly more depending on the geographic region where they are employed. All telemetry nurses must have training in Basic Life Support (BLS) and Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS); others also pursue Critical Care Registered Nurse (CCRN) and Progressive Care Critical Nurse (PCCN) certifications, as well as further certifications in cardiac telemetry and critical care nursing.
A Telemetry Technician earns an average wage of $14.07 per hour. Most people with this job move on to other positions after 20 years in this career. For the first five to ten years in this position, wages increase somewhat, but any additional experience does not have a big effect on pay. 
Duties of a Telemetry Nurse. In the telemetry unit of a hospital, patients are often in critical condition and need constant monitoring and care. Telemetry nurses review data from special equipment to track a patient’s heart rate, blood pressure, breathing and other vitals. Since constant monitoring is required for patients within a telemetry unit, hospitals need to have telemetry RNs on duty 24/7. These nurses often work long shifts, including nights, weekends and holidays.
The average salary for telemetry nurse jobs is $57,000. Average telemetry nurse salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term telemetry nurse anywhere in the job listing.
You can work a general cardiac medical/surgical/telemetry ward for regular RN pay, just need to get a job in one when you graduate. You could work in the cath lab. You could work in CCU, or CTICU. You could work in a heart failure clinic as an NP. Etc. [font=comic sans ms]get a job on a telemetry or step down unit, and get some experience. you don't say whether you want to do telemetry, ccu, cath lab or cardiac surgery, but some experience on a telemetry unit will help you solidify your goals and your basic skills. then transfer to the job of your choice.
Telemetry Unit RN Salary Potential. According to national salary data on PayScale.com, RNs specializing in telemetry earned a median annual income of $55,432 in October 2010. However, telemetry experience and an advanced degree – such as a Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) – can help RNs advance even further. Since constant monitoring is required for patients within a telemetry unit, hospitals need to have telemetry RNs on duty 24/7. These nurses often work long shifts, including nights, weekends and holidays.