Identify the differences between bacteria viruses, Fungi and Parasites. Viruses are pieces of nucleic acid (DNA or RNA) wrapped in a thin coat of protein that replicate only within the cells of living hosts. Bacteria are one-cell microorganisms with a simple cellular organization whose nucleus lacks a membrane. Parasites may be protozoa, yeasts, or multicellular organisms such as fungi or worms that live in or on a host to obtain nourishment without providing any benefit to the host.
Pathogens are organisms organisms: living entities-ie animals, plants or microorganisms. that cause disease. They include microorganisms such as bacteria, viruses, fungi and protozoa. 
The difference between bacteria, fungi, viruses, protozoa and algae are listed below. They all play a very important role in the decaying process. Bacteria: A bacteria is a single celled organism that is essential for all life. They are either a parasite or live independently. Bacteria have three basic shapes that include spiral, coccus and bacillus. Bacteria multiply themselves by cell division. Antibiotics can usually kill them. Protozoa: A protozoa is a single celled organism which is able to move and will feed on any organic compound of carbon and nitrogen, for example an amoeba. They can be parasites or live independently. They are usually found in water or soil. Protozoa have different shapes and will produce asexually.
Mushrooms are fungi, as is the mold that forms the blue or green veins in some types of cheese. And yeast, another type of fungi, is a necessary ingredient to make most types of bread. Identify Common illnesses and infections caused by bacteria viruses, Fungi and Parasites. Fungus: Athlete's foot, Bacteria are one-cell microorganisms with a simple cellular organization whose nucleus lacks a membrane. Parasites may be protozoa, yeasts, or multicellular organisms such as fungi or worms that live in or on a host to obtain nourishment without providing any benefit to the host.
There are many differences, but I will mention a few: A bacterium is a very small microorganism (a socalled prokaryot), with a cell wall and a cell membrane (or sometimes two) on the outside and with all the cellular machinery inside this one compartment. One major difference between viruses and bacteria is the method of reproduction. Bacterium is a completely self-contained and self-reproducing unit. When the time is right, bacterium will split its DNA and RNA genetic material in two.
Viruses, bacteria, protists & fungi (just the basics!)- parasites postponed until we discuss them in class.I. Viruses:- A virus is a short piece of DNA or RNA, sometimes with some associated enzymes. 
Bacteria. Bacteria are one-celled organisms visible only with a microscope. They're so small that if you lined up a thousand of them end to end, they could fit across the end of a pencil eraser. Not all bacteria are harmful, and some bacteria that live in your body are helpful. For instance, Lactobacillus acidophilus — a harmless bacterium that resides in your intestines — helps you digest food, destroys some disease-causing organisms and provides nutrients. There's a difference between infection and disease. Infection, often the first step, occurs when bacteria, viruses or other microbes that cause disease enter your body and begin to multiply.
The main difference between viruses and bacteria is that viruses are packets of genetic material and cannot survive on their own, while bacteria are single-celled organisms th … at can. Bacteria take in nutrients, expel waste, grow, and reproduce (multiply). One major difference between viruses and bacteria is the method of reproduction. Bacterium is a completely self-contained and self-reproducing unit. When the time is right, bacterium will split its DNA and RNA genetic material in two.
The diagram highlights the sizes of different microbes and compares them to other living things. Microbes-bacteria, archaea, fungi, algae, protozoa and viruses-have been around for at least 3,500 million years and were the only life forms on Earth for most of that time. As the Earth cooled, liquid water formed and the first microbial life appeared. 
More Answers. Bacteria: A bacteria is a single celled organism that is essential for all life. They are either a parasite or live independently. Bacteria have three basic shapes that include spiral, coccus and bacillus. Bacteria multiply themselves by cell division. Antibiotics can usually kill them. Protozoa: A protozoa is a single celled organism which is able to move and will feed on any organic compound of carbon and nitrogen, for example an amoeba. They can be parasites or live independently. They are usually found in water or soil. Protozoa have different shapes and will produce asexually.