Macrobid ® (nitrofurantoin monohydrate/macrocrystalline) is a prescription antibiotic approved for the treatment of urinary tract infections (UTIs). Specifically, Macrobid is approved for treating bladder infections caused by Escherichia coli or Staphylococcus saprophyticus bacteria (the most common types of bacteria responsible for UTIs).
DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Nitrofurantoin is an antibiotic that is used for treating urinary tract infections caused by several types of bacteria. It is effective against E. Coli, Enterobacter cystitis, Enterococcus, Klebsiella, and S taphylococcus aureus. 
A. View Sources. This medication is an antibiotic used to treat bladder infections (acute cystitis). It works by stopping the growth of bacteria. This antibiotic treats only bacterial infections. It will not work for viral infections (e.g., common cold, flu).
Macrobid is the brand name for nitrofurantoin, an antibiotic used to treat or prevent urinary tract infections. Macrobid works by killing the bacteria that cause the infection or by preventing the bacteria from growing. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Macrobid, made by Proctor and Gamble Pharmaceuticals, in 1992.
NITROFURANTOIN/NITROFURANTOIN MACROCRYSTALS-ORAL. (NYE-trow-fyour-AN-toe-in). COMMON BRAND NAME(S): Macrobid. USES: This medication is an antibiotic used to treat bladder infections (acute cystitis). It works by stopping the growth of bacteria. This antibiotic treats only bacterial infections. It will not work for viral infections (e.g., common cold, flu).
It really depends on the type of bacteria that is present in the urinary tract. In general, Macrobid (Nitrofurantoin), is used specifically to treat UTI's. Holding your urine too long can cause you to have a UTI or urethritis. Also, having the urge to urinate frequently can be a sign of overactive bladder or a UTI. 
Macrobid oral may also be used to treat: Bladder Infection caused by Enterobacter, Infection of the Urinary Tract caused by Enterococcus, Urinary Tract Infection caused by Klebsiella Bacteria, Urinary Tract Infection caused by Staphylococcus Aureus, Urinary Tract Infection Prevention. 
This medication is an antibiotic used to treat bladder infections (acute cystitis). It works by stopping the growth of bacteria. This antibiotic treats only bacterial infections. It will not work for viral infections (e.g., common cold, flu). 
Nitrofurantoin, sold under the trade name Macrobid among others, is an antibiotic used to treat bladder infections. It is not effective for kidney infections. It is taken by mouth. Common side effects include nausea, loss of appetite, diarrhea, and headaches. Rarely numbness, lung problems, or liver problems may occur. 