Answers. Best Answer: The actual transfer fee is only a few bucks. Transferring the current license plate is $15, or a new one is $25. If you want a personalized plate, it is more. The actual transferring of the vehicle should be in the $25 to $50 range. Registering it is another issue. 
When you transfer your license plates to another vehicle, you must verify your residence street address or business address with us by: 1  Visiting a vehicle licensing office. 2  or. 3  Entering your address (even if it hasn’t changed) in one of our online address systems: 4  Change your vehicle address (single vehicles). 1 or. 2  By mailing all of the following to any vehicle licensing office 3  : A copy of the registration for the vehicle you want the plate transferred to. 4  A letter indicating that you want your plates transferred to the new vehicle. 5  The letter should include your: 6  License plate number. 7  Current residence and mailing address.
First-Time Tennessee Vehicle Registration. If you are moving to the state of Tennessee, you will need to complete the Tennessee vehicle registration process for your new vehicle. You can do this by bring the application for Certificate of Title and TN Registration to the office of the local county clerk. If you are a resident, but you purchased a used motor vehicle, you must submit an odometer disclosure statement, a certificate of title, and a copy of your current vehicle registration if you are transferring your license plate to the used vehicle. These are all required for a Tennessee vehicle r
You may transfer your license plate to another vehicle: 1  In person at a vehicle licensing office. ( 2 Additional service fees may apply.). 3  or. 4  By mailing all of the following to any vehicle licensing office 5  : A copy of the registration for the vehicle you want the plate transferred to. 1 or. 2  By mailing all of the following to any vehicle licensing office 3  : A copy of the registration for the vehicle you want the plate transferred to. 4  A letter indicating that you want your plates transferred to the new vehicle. 5  The letter should include your: 6  License plate number. 7  Current residence and mailing address.
1 A copy of the registration for the vehicle you want the plate transferred to. 2  A letter indicating that you want your plates transferred to the new vehicle. 3  The letter should include your: 4  License plate number. 5  Current residence and mailing address. 6  A check or money order for the fee. 1 or. 2  By mailing all of the following to any vehicle licensing office 3  : A copy of the registration for the vehicle you want the plate transferred to. 4  A letter indicating that you want your plates transferred to the new vehicle. 5  The letter should include your: 6  License plate number. 7
Transfer a vehicle title in this state without frustration. What you need to know about how to transfer a vehicle title in Tennessee: 1  To change automobile ownership, title and register a new vehicle, you will need to submit to your resident county clerk the following: 2  Manufacturer's Statement of Origin. 3  The new vehicle's invoice. 
This page will help you find all of the information you need to complete your tasks with the Tennessee Department of Revenue (DOR). SUMMARY: New Tennessee Residents. As a new resident of Tennessee, you will need to transfer your out-of-state driver's license and have your car registered in the state. These tasks require a visit to the DOR. Once you move to Tennessee, you may also wish to register as an organ donor and register to vote. TN Driver's License/ID Cards. If you have an out-of-state driver's license, you'll need to transfer it to Tennessee once you become a resident of the state. You'll need to visit your local TN DOR office in person and provide the required documents and payment.
Step 1, Requirements & Documents. First, to start the transfer you will need to meet these requirements: 1  Maintain liability insurance. 2  The vehicle the license plate is being transferred to must have a current inspection. 3  The name on your License and the Vehicle Title must match. You can attach the license plate of a disposed vehicle to another vehicle of the same classification. Requirements: 1  You must start the plate transfer process. 2  Second vehicle must be properly insured.
Current vehicle registration on the trade-in vehicle if transferring the license plate. A transfer fee of $17.50 if transferring a license plate from another vehicle. 1  A transfer fee of $28.50 with a lien notation and transfer license plate. The owner of the vehicle must appear in person to apply for a Tennessee Title on a new vehicle. If the owner is unable to appear in person, a Power of Attorney form must be completed and notarized authorizing someone else to transact the title transfer on the owner's behalf.
SUMMARY: Car Tags/License Plates. Click on your state for information about license plates, including how to apply for, renew, and replace tags, as well as the cost of license plates at your state's DMV. Find information about license plate transfers and surrenders after selling a car. 