An infectious disease is any disease caused by a pathogen (germ) such as a virus, bacteria, parasite, or fungus. Although we will mostly discuss infectious diseases in people on this page, other living organisms such as animals, plants, and microorganisms can all be made ill by an infectious disease. Pathogens. 1 Some parasitic diseases include malaria, sleeping sickness, and scabies. 2  Fungi-Fungi are microorganisms such as yeasts and molds. 3  They can cause diseases such as fungal meningitis, ringworm, and thrush. 4  Food and water contamination-Some diseases are passed on by contaminated food or water.
Because viruses, bacteria, and fungi cause many well-known diseases, it is common to confuse them, but they are as different as a mouse and an elephant. A look at the size, structure, reproduction, hosts, and diseases caused by each will shed some light on the important differences between these germs. The term 'germ' actually refers to any microorganism, especially those microorganisms that cause disease. Included in this category are certain viruses, bacteria, and fungi.
1 Viruses-Viruses are extremely small and consists of DNA with a protective coating of protein. 2  Diseases caused by viruses include influenza, the common cold, measles, yellow fever, and hepatitis. 3  Bacteria-Bacteria are small microorganisms. 4  They can cause diseases such as tuberculosis, cholera, typhoid fever, and tetanus. 1 Some parasitic diseases include malaria, sleeping sickness, and scabies. 2  Fungi-Fungi are microorganisms such as yeasts and molds. 3  They can cause diseases such as fungal meningitis, ringworm, and thrush. 4  Food and water contamination-Some diseases are passed on by contaminated food or water.
A human pathogen is a pathogen (microbe or microorganism such as a virus, bacterium, prion, or fungus) that causes disease in humans. The human physiological defense against common pathogens (such as Pneumocystis) is mainly the responsibility of the immune system with help by some of the body's normal flora and fauna. However, if the immune system or good microbiota are damaged in any way (such as by chemotherapy, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), or antibiotics being taken to kill other pathogens), pathogenic bacteria that were being held at bay can proliferate and cause harm to the host.
Failure to respond effectively can result in disease or death. Disease is a disturbance of homeostasis or steady state within an organism. Many organisms, such as viruses, bacteria, fungi, and parasites may cause disease. Disease also results from factors which are not living organisms. The immune response is the defensive reaction of the body to foreign substances or organisms. The immune system also protects against some cancer cells which may arise in the body. Some Causes of Disease Living organisms which cause disease are known as pathogens. Some viruses, bacteria, fungi, and parasites are examples of living things which are pathogens causing disease. Other factors may be involved which contribute to or cause the body to develop disease
Infectious diseases are caused by microorganisms such as viruses, bacteria, fungi or parasites and can spread between individuals. 1  Infectious diseases are caused by microorganisms such as viruses, bacteria, fungi or parasites. 2  Microorganisms that cause disease are collectively called pathogens. 1 Infectious diseases are caused by microorganisms such as viruses, bacteria, fungi or parasites.
Organisms that cause infectious disease include fungi, oomycetes, bacteria, viruses, viroids, virus-like organisms, phytoplasmas, protozoa, nematodes and parasitic plants. Not included are ectoparasites like insects, mites, vertebrate, or other pests that affect plant health by consumption of plant tissues. 