Venezuela is a federal presidential republic consisting of 23 states, the Capital District (covering Caracas), and federal dependencies (covering Venezuela's offshore islands). Venezuela is among the most urbanized countries in Latin America; the vast majority of Venezuelans live in the cities of the north, especially in the capital, Caracas, which is also the largest city in Venezuela.
Basic Facts on Venezuela. Venezuela, named the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela since 1999, is located on the northern coast of South America. The country comprises a continental mainland and numerous islands in the Caribbean Sea. It borders Guyana to the east, Brazil to the south, and Colombia to the west. Venezuela is also among the most urban countries in Latin America. The majority of the population is concentrated in the north, especially in the largest metropolis, Caracas. Other major cities include Maracay, Maracaibo, Barquisimeto, Valencia, and Ciudad Guayana.
Falling within the tropics, Venezuela sits close to the equator, in the Northern Hemisphere. A former Spanish colony, which has been an independent republic since 1821, Venezuela holds territorial disputes with Guyana, largely concerning the Essequibo area, and with Colombia concerning the Gulf of Venezuela. Venezuela – sovereign country located in northern South America.
Venezuela, named the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela since 1999, is located on the northern coast of South America. The country comprises a continental mainland and numerous islands in the Caribbean Sea. Venezuela is also among the most urban countries in Latin America. The majority of the population is concentrated in the north, especially in the largest metropolis, Caracas. Other major cities include Maracay, Maracaibo, Barquisimeto, Valencia, and Ciudad Guayana.
Its location is 8° 0' N and 66° 0'W. Venezuela-officially the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela-is a country on the northern coast of South America (next to the Caribbe … an Sea). It shares borders with Guyana to the east, Brazil to the south and Columbia to the west. The names comes from hemi which means half, so hemisphere means half a sphere. We often talk about the northern and southern hemispheres … which are the halves of our planet north and south of the equator respectively.
Venezuela (/ˌvɛnəˈzweɪlə/ VEN-ə-ZWAYL-ə; [beneˈswela]), officially the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela (Spanish: Republica República bolivariana De), venezuela is a federal republic located on the northern coast Of South. America it is bordered By colombia on the, West brazil on the, south And guyana on the. east Venezuela is among the most urbanized countries in Latin America; the vast majority of Venezuelans live in the cities of the north, especially in the capital, Caracas, which is also the largest city in Venezuela.
Venezuela (/ˌvɛnəˈzweɪlə/ VEN-ə-ZWAYL-ə; [beneˈswela]), officially the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela (Spanish: Republica República bolivariana De), venezuela is a federal republic located on the northern coast Of South. america Venezuela is among the most urbanized countries in Latin America; the vast majority of Venezuelans live in the cities of the north, especially in the capital, Caracas, which is also the largest city in Venezuela.
Print this map. RELATIVE LOCATION: Venezuela is positioned in both the northern and western hemispheres. It's located on the northern edge of South America, and bordered by Guyana, Brazil, Colombia and the southern waters of the Caribbean Sea. 
Venezuela is in the western hemisphere and in the southern hemisphere. found this useful. Darlene Claire Avanzado. Edit. Share to: 1  Citgo, Hugo Chavez, and Politically Correct Oil The modern world runs on the internal combustible engine and in turn, this engine runs on oil. The Banco de Venezuela headquarters in located in Caracas, Venezuela. As of June 2008, they had 285 banks located around Venezuela. They were brought out by the country in May … of 2009.