HIV/AIDS epidemics among men who have sex with men (MSM) in Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean, and the CIS. 
1 Hepatitis A is preventable with a vaccine, and the vaccine is recommended for people with HIV if some other risk factor is present (e.g., on the basis of medical, occupational, lifestyle, or other indications). This condition is often caused by a virus. In the United States, the most common causes of viral hepatitis are hepatitis A virus (HAV), hepatitis B virus (HBV), and hepatitis C virus (HCV).
In many developed countries HIV is more prevalent among men who have sex with men (MSM) than among the general population. In the United States in 2005, MSM, African Americans, and persons engaging in high-risk heterosexual behavior accounted for respectively 49%, 49%, and 32% of new HIV diagnoses. 
This fundraising toolkit was developed to assist community-based organizations (CBOs) that provide HIV-related programs and services for gay and bisexual men, other men who have sex with men (MSM), and transgender individuals. In this guide, a number of key questions are answered: 
Intertwining health problems – syndemics – are associated with higher viral load and poorer adherence in HIV-positive men who have sex with men (MSM) taking antiretroviral treatment (ART), investigators from the United States report in the online edition of AIDS. Men who have sex with men account for approximately two-thirds of new HIV diagnoses in the United States. There are great hopes that the use of antiretroviral treatment as prevention will help curtail the epidemic in this population. However, only 28% of people with HIV in the US have an undetectable viral load.
MSM have engaged in a hierarchy of strategies for maintaining safer sex that are fluid and context-dependent. Most MSM are able to manage sexual risk with effective strategies such as monogamy with concordant partners, consistent condom use with repeated testing, condom use outside of relationship or abstinence. Only recently have HIV+ MSM been targeted with messages and programs featuring “prevention altruism” that make use of MSM’s strengths. HIV prevention efforts need broader, more emotionally-resonant concepts that build on what is good in MSM’s lives.
In the United States, HIV is spread mainly by. 1  Having sex with someone who has HIV. 2  In general: 3  Anal sex is the highest-risk sexual behavior. 4  Receptive anal sex (bottoming) is riskier than insertive anal sex (topping). 5  Vaginal sex is the second highest-risk sexual behavior. 1
HIV severely affects gay and bisexual men—more than any other group in the United States. Gay and bisexual men make up about 2% of the overall population, but account for approximately two-thirds of all new HIV infections each year. 1 Having sex with someone who has HIV. 2  In general: 3  Anal sex is the highest-risk sexual behavior. 4  Receptive anal sex (bottoming) is riskier than insertive anal sex (topping). 5  Vaginal sex is the second
Since reports of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) virus began to emerge in the United States in the 1980s, the HIV epidemic has frequently been linked to gay, bisexual, and other men who have sex with men (MSM) by epidemiologists and medical professionals. Men who have sex with men (abbreviated as MSM, also known as males who have sex with males) are male persons who engage in sexual activity with members of the same sex, regardless of how they personally identify themselves.
HIV is transmitted by contact with the blood or other body fluids of an infected person. This can occur during unprotected sex or through sharing injecting drug-use equipment. In addition, untreated infected women can pass HIV to their infants during pregnancy, delivery, and breastfeeding. 