The phenomenon is called autonomous sensory meridian response (ASMR). I have been reading about this for a short time, it seems to be a growing subculture on the internet and is just peaking through to mainstream awareness. For reasons I will get into below, I think it is entirely plausible, or at least this is no obstacle to acceptance of ASMR as real. So, with the small caveat that we are not completely sure at this time, it seems reasonable to proceed with the working assumption that ASMR is a real thing.
That last one is probably the most boring thing I have ever seen on the internet. It has nearly 350,000 views and 850 likes. ASMR is a tricky feeling to describe, and I can only talk about it secondhand. From what I understand from conversations with ASMRers, it’s a tingle in your brain, a kind of pleasurable headache that can creep down your spine. It’s not usually sexual – everyone who talked to me about ASMR mentioned that right off the bat – but like sexual turn-ons, different people have different things that set them off: the sound of lips smacking together, a cashier’s fake nails tapping on the register, your friend drawing on your hand with a marker.
ASMR stands for Autonomous Sensory Meridian Response and it refers to a phenomenon which is very difficult to explain to those that do not experience it. It is usually experienced through a relaxing tingling in the scalp and the back of the neck and can extend into the rest of the body. It is a very calming sensation that washes over you. I first encountered ASMR, as do most people, as a child. I never knew exactly what it was.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: ASMR is not a joke, those who can't experience are usually rude and very close minded to the topic. I've had it all my life and it's just one of those things that some people have and others don't. So a lot of videos on youtube focus on certain triggers to help others experience it, though you can't be triggered by yourself. If you're doing the tapping or soft speaking it won't work. The close minded jerk who answered before me is probably thinking of Frissom, which is just excitement and cold chills.
I Have Asmr. One of my earliest memories of ASMR were back in elementary school gym class when we had to climb this really long rope, probably about twenty feet high. When I would climb it the sound of the rope between my hands and its gritty texture made me dizzy and sent tingles down my scalp and spine. 
Please don't listen to him, ASMR is by all means not a recent thing, it's just become more well known recently because of the internet, for the majority of my life I'd never spoken to anyone about it because I thought they'd think I was odd. But it's happened to be people for many, many years. So a lot of videos on youtube focus on certain triggers to help others experience it, though you can't be triggered by yourself. If you're doing the tapping or soft speaking it won't work. The close minded jerk who answered before me is probably thinking of Frissom, which is just excitement and cold chills.
A video intended to trigger ASMR. Autonomous sensory meridian response (ASMR) is a neologism for a perceptual phenomenon characterized as a distinct, pleasurable tingling sensation in the head, scalp, back, or peripheral regions of the body in response to visual, auditory, tactile, olfactory, or cognitive stimuli. 