If you use the Windows XP Rename function in Windows Explorer, after you select the three smith files, and rename smitha.doc to smythea.doc, all the other files you selected are named smythea(x).doc. To return to the original file name structure (the use of a, b, c, etc), you must rename each file individually. 1 To do so, click Start, point to All Programs, point to Accessories, and then click Windows Explorer. 2  Select multiple files in a folder. 3  To do so, press and hold down the CTRL key while you are clicking files. 4  After you select the files, press F2. 5  Type the new name, and then press ENTER.
There is a short window of opportunity to undo a file action (move, rename, copy type) in Windows Explorer or folder windows using the Edit Menu (or pressing Ctrl Z). You would see undo rename as the option for example. Only the most recent file action will be un-doable, so it may be too late. 2) Phone has limitation on filename characters. 3) Changed a filename & next thing I know, I have 25 files re-named  BB King&Claption-Riding With the King  (of course, each with [2], [3], [4] etc appended). 4) Looked at all the obvious places for  UNDO  command (NONE readily apparent!).
There are multiple way in which you can rename files in Windows 8. You can rename files from Windows Explorer, with ren command run from either command line or a batch file or with a 3rd party software application. This post outlines all 3 methods to rename single or multiple files in Windows 8. The easiest way to rename multiple files in Windows 8 is from Windows Explorer.
You can even Right Click on any of the File(s) listed in Windows Explorer and Select the Rename menu Item to Rename Single or Multiple Files in Windows 8. You can even Undo the File Rename of Single or Multiple Files in Windows Explorer using the Ctrl + Z Keyboard Shortcut. Rename Multiple Files in Windows 8 Explorer. You can rename files from Windows Explorer, with ren command run from either command line or a batch file or with a 3rd party software application. This post outlines all 3 methods to rename single or multiple files in Windows 8. The easiest way to rename multiple files in Windows 8 is from Windows Explorer.
To undo a rename refactoring operation. On the Edit menu, click Global Undo. The text of the menu option includes the details of the operation that will be undone. For example, the menu might say Global Undo *Rename from ShippedDate to ShippedDateAndTime. You can also click the Undo button on the toolbar. If you click the drop-down arrow on the button, the details of the operation that will be undone appear. 
Just go to edit in the drop down menu in Windows Explorer and click Undo Rename and Voila!!! Aaron S · 1 year ago. Thumbs up. 1. Thumbs down. 1. 1 comment. Loading ... 
1 Start Windows Explorer. 2  To do so, click Start, point to All Programs, point to Accessories, and then click Windows Explorer. 3  Select multiple files in a folder. 4  To do so, press and hold down the CTRL key while you are clicking files. 5  After you select the files, press F2. 6  Type the new name, and then press ENTER. 1 To do so, click Start, point to All Programs, point to Accessories, and then click Windows Explorer. 2  Select multiple files in a folder. 3  To do so, press and hold down the CTRL key while you are clicking files. 4  After you select the files, press F2. 5
Feeling soooo stupid. Have had W7 for 2.5 months and I still haven't figured out how to undo a re-naming of a file over in Windows Explorer. I just indavertently re-named 3 files to the exact same name and need to recover the original name of 2 of them.