For the record, doe urine is the same as “doe in rut” urine and the like. The only difference is what’s printed on the bottle. An interesting study proved that lures both work and, well, don’t really. In the study, different scrapes were baited with doe urine, buck urine, human urine and — get this — new car smell. All manner of scents from smelly deer glands are at play in this process. Forehead glands, pee, and others make a cocktail that’s unmistakable to a trained nose. Lure makers bank on these glands when they package doe and buck urine, which is collected from real deer via a PVC tube.
Urine is different in different species, due to the chemicals found in what they eat. Thus, those animals (such as predators and humans) that eat meat, have a lot more protein in their urine, than those animals that are primarily vegetarion (grazers like elk, browsers like whitetails). In a study of how whitetails react to buck urine, doe urine, pre-estrus urine, estrus urine, post estrus urine and human urine, the most positive responses were to human urine. I suspect this was a curiosity response.
The natural smell of a live deer is much more than the smell of urine and actually comes from the glands of deer. These glands are located on various parts of the deer’s body and produce natural aromatic compounds that adhere to the hairs on the gland. Did you know:…. 1  Ammonia is a product of decay and is not natural in the animal world! 2  Deer have never smelled that rank ammonia odor sold in bottles. 3  Fresh urine actually smells very mild and mellow!
The real secret to producing the smell of a live deer is to immediately seal and deep freeze these compounds and smells once removed from the deer. (This is much like what hospitals do to preserve human tissue and it is the only way to perfectly preserve these volatile compounds.) But, we don’t stop there. Did you know:…. 1  Ammonia is a product of decay and is not natural in the animal world! 2  Deer have never smelled that rank ammonia odor sold in bottles. 3  Fresh urine actually smells very mild and mellow!
SPECIAL NOTE: RealDEER is NOT an imitation, synthetic or a urine-based scent, but contains the exact odors present on all live deer. Therefore, there are no smells from ammonia or spoiled urine, no foreign ingredients, no chemical breakdowns and no spooked deer. Did you know:…. 1  Ammonia is a product of decay and is not natural in the animal world! 2  Deer have never smelled that rank ammonia odor sold in bottles. 3  Fresh urine actually smells very mild and mellow!
1 Now that you know what mammals are, you can investigate so…. 2  Why Urine Sometimes Smells Bad Under normal conditions, urine does not have a powerful smell and is also clear. 3  However, sometimes you may notice that your urine smells bad, or has become discolored. 1 Why Urine Sometimes Smells Bad Under normal conditions, urine does not have a powerful smell and is also clear. 2  However, sometimes you may notice that your urine smells bad, or has become discolored. 3  Such ….
When deer smell RealDEER they actually think they smell another deer, not deer urine, and their reaction can truly be amazing! Deer are attracted to and seek out other deer and the only thing that smells like a deer is a deer with all of its naturally occurring smells. 1  RealDEER Liquid Deer Attractant. Did you know:…. 1  Ammonia is a product of decay and is not natural in the animal world! 2  Deer have never smelled that rank ammonia odor sold in bottles. 3  Fresh urine actually smells very mild and mellow!
Yep, you read it right, it does say “deer urine” and “tampons.” Oh, and just in case you’re still rubbing your eyes in disbelief, check out the photo. There are 40 scent free, ultra absorbing Tampons in that box. If you don’t know what they are used for, go talk to your mother. 1. Deer Urine Strategy. We’ve all heard the deer urine jokes thrown at the avid hunter. I hear it every year from a friend who doesn’t hunt and is constantly telling me how warped I am for wanting to smell like deer pee.
Deer know what fresh urine smells like and they also know what old urine smells like. Whatever urine you use, try to purchase urine that is fresh as possible. Once purchased, keep it in the freezer for longevity and simply thaw it out as needed. 1. Deer Urine Strategy. We’ve all heard the deer urine jokes thrown at the avid hunter. I hear it every year from a friend who doesn’t hunt and is constantly telling me how warped I am for wanting to smell like deer pee.
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. how would your dad know what deer pee smells like?...Believe me, your dog is not going to get close enough, long enough for deer to pee on him ...try bathing your dog and use white vinegar and water as rinse. 1 gallon of warm water to 1 cup of vinegar.