Dinner Party - 6 appetizers per person. Cocktail Party - 12 appetizers per person. Caterer's Formula: A fairly standard formula is used among caterers to figure out how many appetizers are needed from each recipe: 12 pieces per person times the number of people divided by the number of different appetizers. When appetizers are being served before a full dinner, halve the totals. If the guest list has fewer than 45 people, plan on using roughly 6 different appetizers; for more than 45 guests, 8 types
Three appetizers are enough for parties with 10 or fewer guests. Multiply 12 appetizers per person by the total number of guests to calculate the total amount of appetizers needed for a cocktail party. Divide the answer by the number of appetizer types served. That's the required total number of appetizers for a cocktail party. 
1 Jack's Firehouse in Philadelphia offers limited budget cocktail parties with 4 appetizers, house beer and wine for $25 per person. 2  This is a $10 savings off the cost of the same party with 5 appetizers. 1 For a 2-hour party, Cork Catering in Illinois charges $7.50 per guest for beer or wine only and $14.50 per guest for a premium bar serving most types of mixed drinks. 2  For detailed open bar pricing, see How Much Does an Open Bar Cost.
1 The average wedding caterer cost, including food and food service, drinks and drink service and cake and cake cutting fees is $12,790, according to The Bridal Association of America, which treats these as three separate categories. 2  The average number of guests is 150, so it works out to about $85 per person. 
1 You should also have 12 to 15 pieces (total) per person. 2  For example, if you have 20 guests, you need at least 240 total appetizer pieces. 3  This estimate is for a three-hour party. 4  Longer parties require more appetizers. 5  The more variety you have, the smaller portion size each type of appetizer will need to have. 
1 The typical cost for a two-hour cocktail party ranges from $25-$230 per person. 2  On the higher end, hosts may choose a high-end venue, premium hors d'oeuvres and a full bar. 3  Caterers specializing in cocktail receptions let the host choose hot and cold appetizers for about $15 to $35 per person. 1 For a 2-hour party, Cork Catering in Illinois charges $7.50 per guest for beer or wine only and $14.50 per guest for a premium bar serving most types of mixed drinks. 2  For detailed open bar pricing, see How Much Does an Open Bar Cost.
Dinner Party - 6 appetizers per person Cocktail Party - 12 appetizers per person. 12 pieces per person times the number of people divided by the number of different appetizers. When appetizers are being served before a full dinner, halve the totals. If the guest list has fewer than 45 people, plan on using roughly 6 different appetizers; for more than 45 guests, 8 types. Caterer's Formula: A fairly standard formula is used among caterers to figure out how many appetizers are needed from each recipe:
1 Additional or premium hors d'oeuvres may cost $2-$10 per selection. 2  At St. John Catering in the U.S. Virgin Islands, an appetizer selection costs $5 per person, with a three appetizer minimum. 1 For a 2-hour party, Cork Catering in Illinois charges $7.50 per guest for beer or wine only and $14.50 per guest for a premium bar serving most types of mixed drinks. 2  For detailed open bar pricing, see How Much Does an Open Bar Cost.
1 Limiting the number of appetizers and drink options at a cocktail party will typically save the host money. 2  Jack's Firehouse in Philadelphia offers limited budget cocktail parties with 4 appetizers, house beer and wine for $25 per person. 3  This is a $10 savings off the cost of the same party with 5 appetizers. 1 For a 2-hour party, Cork Catering in Illinois charges $7.50 per guest for beer or wine only and $14.50 per guest for a premium bar serving most types of mixed drinks. 2  For detailed open bar pricing, see How Much Does an Open Bar Cost.