ANAPHALAXIS FINAL. The type of immunity resulting fr a direct attack of a foreign substance by specialized cells of the immune system is known as ______. Cellular. Substances produced by B lymphocytes in response to an antigen are called _____.
Any substance capable of generating such a response is called an antigen, or immunogen. Antigens are not the foreign microorganisms and tissues themselves; they are substances --- such as toxins or enzymes --- in the microorganisms or tissues that the immune system considers foreign. Immune responses are normally directed against the antigen that provoked them and are said to be antigen-specific.
allergen. 1. a substance, protein or nonprotein, capable of inducing allergy or specific hypersensitivity. 2. a purified protein of a food (such as milk, eggs, or wheat), bacterium, or pollen. adj., adj allergen´ic. Allergens are used to test a patient for hypersensitivity to specific substances (see skin test).
Combining multiple antigens (protein or carbohydrate substance capable of stimulating an immune response) and organisms within a vaccine must be done with care. The combination of some vaccines and pathogens may result in a decrease, or even loss, of efficacy of the vaccine against the pathogens.
allergen. 1. a substance, protein or nonprotein, capable of inducing allergy or specific hypersensitivity. 2. an extract of any substance known to cause allergy. Allergens are used to test a patient for hypersensitivity to specific substances (see skin test).
antigen. Any substance that can stimulate an immune response in the body and can react with the products of that response, that is, with specific antibodies or specifically sensitized T lymphocytes, or both. Antigens include bacteria, foreign substance (e.g. dust mite, grass, pollen of trees), toxins and viruses.
Immunosuppressant: An agent that can suppress or prevent  the immune response. Immunosuppressants are used to prevent  rejection of a transplanted organ and to treat autoimm … une diseases  such as  psoriasis,rheumatoid  arthritis, and  Crohn's disease. Some treatments for  cancer act as immunosuppressants.