The matrix is important in the production of ATP with the aid of the ATP synthase contained in the inner membrane. The matrix contains a highly concentrated mixture of hundreds of enzymes, special mitochondrial ribosomes, tRNA, and several copies of the mitochondrial DNA genome. The mitochondrion (plural mitochondria) is a double membrane-bound organelle found in most eukaryotic cells. The word mitochondrion comes from the Greek μίτος, mitos, i.e. thread, and χονδρίον, chondrion, i.e. granule or grain-like.
In the mitochondrion, the matrix contains soluble enzymes that catalyze the oxidation of pyruvate and other small organic molecules. The mitochondrial matrix also contains the mitochondria's DNA and ribosomes. The word matrix stems from the fact that this space is viscous, compared to the relatively aqueous cytoplasm. The cytosolic compartment has a water content of 3.8 μl/mg protein, while the mitochondrial matrix 0.8 μl/mg protein
Mitochondria are unusual organelles. They act as the power plants of the cell, are surrounded by two membranes, and have their own genome. They also divide independently of the cell in which they reside, meaning mitochondrial replication is not coupled to cell division. Therefore, power-hungry cells have more mitochondria than cells with lower energy needs. For example, repeatedly stimulating a muscle cell will spur the production of more mitochondria in that cell, to keep up with energy demand.
Mitochondria are enclosed by a double-membrane system made up of an inner and an outer membrane. The space between these two membranes is called (surprise!) the intermembrane space. The inner membrane encloses the interior of the mitochondrion, which is known as the mitochondrial matrix. The inner membrane contains proteins that comprise the electron transport chain, the ATP synthase enzyme that makes ATP and transport proteins that are needed for allowing the passage of metabolites into and out of the matrix.
The inner membrane is also loaded with proteins involved in electron transport and ATP synthesis. This membrane surrounds the mitochondrial matrix, where the citric acid cycle produces the electrons that travel from one protein complex to the next in the inner membrane. At the end of this electron transport chain, the final electron acceptor is oxygen, and this ultimately forms water (H20). Therefore, power-hungry cells have more mitochondria than cells with lower energy needs. For example, repeatedly stimulating a muscle cell will spur the production of more mitochondria in that cell, to keep up with energy demand.
A dominant role for the mitochondria is the production of ATP, as reflected by the large number of proteins in the inner membrane for this task. This is done by oxidizing the major products of glucose, pyruvate, and NADH, which are produced in the cytosol. The matrix is the space enclosed by the inner membrane. It contains about 2/3 of the total protein in a mitochondrion. The matrix is important in the production of ATP with the aid of the ATP synthase contained in
The electron transport chain is located in the cristae of the inner mitochondrial membrane. The NADH and FADH 2 produced by the citric acid cycle in the matrix release a proton and electron to regenerate NAD + and FAD. The mitochondrial matrix also contains the mitochondria's DNA and ribosomes. The word matrix stems from the fact that this space is viscous, compared to the relatively aqueous cytoplasm.
The short answer: No. Mitochondria are the power-house of the cell. It is where the Electron Transport Chain takes place as well as the production site almost all of the ATP a cell produces. Proteins are produced by ribosomes of the rough endoplasmic reticulum. Okay... the answer above is only partially true
A dominant role for the mitochondria is the production of ATP, as reflected by the large number of proteins in the inner membrane for this task. This is done by oxidizing the major products of glucose: pyruvate, and NADH, which are produced in the cytosol. The mitochondrion (plural mitochondria) is a double membrane-bound organelle found in most eukaryotic cells. The word mitochondrion comes from the Greek μίτος, mitos, i.e. thread, and χονδρίον, chondrion, i.e. granule or grain-like.