During the Progressive Era, from around 1900-1917, reformers sought to end abuses of power in politics and government. Calls for reform originated with muckrakers like Lincoln Steffens, who revealed the widespread corruption of city politicians and urban political machines. Constitutional Amendments. Progressive reforms extended to the Constitution as well. Three constitutional amendments were passed in the first two decades of the twentieth century. They included the Sixteenth, Seventeenth, and Eighteenth
Investigated dangerous working conditions and unsanitary procedures in the meat-packing industry. In 1906 the Meat Inspection Act and Pure Food and Drug Act were passed. City Reforms Progressive reform began at the local or city level because it was easier to implement than at the vast state or national level. Urban corruption from political machines was a major focus, resulting in the reorganization of local government using the commissioner-and city-manager-styles of management. A number of social reformers also worked to reform what they viewed as the ills negatively impacting United States society: Social Reformers Jane Addams Pioneer in the field of social work who founded the settlement house movement through the establishment of Hull House in Chicago, Illinois.
The Progressive. Era refers to a period of varied reforms that took place throughout the United States over the first two decades of the twentieth century. Perhaps the greatest challenge facing Georgia during the Progressive Era was the health of its people. Some of the most serious problems were caused by living conditions. Almost all of the state's rural homes, and many of those in its cities, lacked any means of sanitary sewage.
Progressivism became highly significant during the Age of Enlightenment in Europe, out of the belief that Europe was demonstrating that societies could progress in civility from barbaric conditions to civilization through strengthening the basis of empirical knowledge as the foundation of society. In America, progressivism began as a social movement in the late 19th and early 20th centuries and grew into a political movement, in what was known as the Progressive Era.
Many progressives supported Prohibition in the United States in order to destroy the political power of local bosses based in saloons. At the same time, women's suffrage was promoted to bring a purer female vote into the arena. As part of this tradition of maternal activism, the Progressive-era General Federation supported a range of causes from the pure food and drug administration to public health care for mothers and children to a ban on child labor, each of which looked to the state to help implement their vision of social justice.
The Progressive Era was a period of widespread social activism and political reform across the United States, from the 1890s to 1920s. The main objective of the Progressive movement was eliminating corruption in government. The movement primarily targeted political machines and their bosses. By taking down these corrupt representatives in office a further means of direct democracy would be established. As part of this tradition of maternal activism, the Progressive-era General Federation supported a range of causes from the pure food and drug administration to public health care for mothers and children to a ban on child labor, each of which looked to the state to help implement their vision of social justice.
LINK / CITE ADD TO WORD LIST. noun. The definition of a progressive movement is a political force that wants reform in all levels of government, theology, education, industry, medicine, insurance, and finance. Goals of the Progressive Movement. 1  To extinguish corruption in the government and its strong influence. 2  To have more people active in the political process. 3  To establish that the government has the obligation to ensure fair economic practices and to help solve social problems.
As an idea, Progressivism generally refers to the belief that government or people acting on its behalf can be used to address social problems, inequalities, or inequities facing the nation. As a political term, the Progressive Party was born in 1912 in light of this idea. 
During the Progressive Era, from around 1900-1917, political reformers pushed for an end of abuse of power in politics and government. Learn how political reforms of the Progressive Era helped make government more responsive to the people, prompting changes at every level of government. Constitutional Amendments. Progressive reforms extended to the Constitution as well. Three constitutional amendments were passed in the first two decades of the twentieth century. They included the Sixteenth, Seventeenth, and Eighteenth
They were, however, less corrupt. Perhaps the most notable politician of the Progressive Era was Robert La Follette of Wisconsin. Government was made more responsive to the people through measures such as the initiative, referendum, and recall. Election reform also included the secret ballot and direct primaries. Constitutional Amendments. Progressive reforms extended to the Constitution as well. Three constitutional amendments were passed in the first two decades of the twentieth century. They included the Sixteenth, Seventeenth, and Eighteenth