Chicory root inulin health benefits. 1  Digestive health: Oliggo-Fiber ® inulin is a prebiotic that helps promote digestive health by stimulating the normal, beneficial bacteria in the colon. 2  Both inulin and oligofructose are effective prebiotics and bifidogenic at a daily consumption of 5g/day. Oliggo-Fiber® inulin, a soluble fiber known as the “invisible fiber,” comes from the chicory root and can be incorporated into most foods or beverages without affecting taste or texture.
Research also indicates that chicory root inulin may enhance dietary calcium absorption, particularly among preteens and postmenopausal women. Chicory root inulin can be used to add fiber without a large impact on functionality or appearance of the product. Oliggo-Fiber® inulin is a naturally-sourced fructan extracted from chicory root. Oliggo-Fiber® inulin, a soluble fiber known as the “invisible fiber,” comes from the chicory root and can be incorporated into most foods or beverages without affecting taste or texture.
INULIN Overview Information. Inulin is a starchy substance found in a wide variety of fruits, vegetables, and herbs, including wheat, onions, bananas, leeks, artichokes, and asparagus. The inulin that is used for medicine is most commonly obtained by soaking chicory roots in hot water. 
Inulin is a type of fiber that's found in certain plant foods. Chicory root is the main source of inulin in supplement form. Chicory was originally found in Europe and Asia. Egyptians grew it thousands of years ago as a medicine. Many foods -- and plants that are less commonly eaten -- contain inulin. These include: 1  Asparagus. 2  Bananas. 3  Burdock. 4  Chicory, which is used in salads.
Inulin is a soluble fiber and fructo-oligosaccharide (FOS) that functions as a prebiotic to promote digestive health by stimulating beneficial bacteria in the gut. New chicory-derived Inulin powder from Swanson Ultra is suitable for adding to many of your favorite foods as a thickening agent and sweetener. 
However, an added benefit of the chicory root is that it is one of the foods with the highest concentration of inulin. Chicory inulin can be extracted from the root and used as an ideal ingredient in functional foods. Using the chicory inulin in this manner can lead to a number of health benefits. As an example, fat can be replaced with chicory root inulin, but not with other types or sources of inulin, due to the longer chain length of chicory root inulin. Due to the chain length, and consistent composition, the chicory root inulin consistently maintains constant nutritional properties.
Sometimes called chicory root fiber, inulin is also found in bananas, wheat, onions, and garlic, but chicory root has very high concentrations. Food manufacturers now extract inulin from chicory root and add it to edible products such as yogurt, ice cream, chocolate bars, breakfast bars, salad dressings and margarine. Because it has a smooth and creamy texture, it has been called the stealth fiber, and it works well as a replacement for fat. Chicory, more precisely root chicory (Cichorium intybus), grows all over the United States and is cultivated in Mediterranean areas in Europe, where it is roasted, ground, and used as a coffee substitute.
Secondly, organic chicory root contains inulin, a soluble fiber that feeds digestive flora in the intestines. Many plants contain inulin, but chicory root has the highest concentration. Nourishing the healthy flora in the intestines enhances digestion. 
Inulin is a type of fiber, meaning it's a plant-based carbohydrate whose bonds cannot be broken by human digestive enzymes. Inulin is also known as a “prebiotic” fiber based on the fact that it's highly fermentable by the friendly bacteria in our guts. Prebiotics are, in essence, like food for “ probiotics ;” or, a source of nutrition for gut bacteria that helps nourish them and enable them to thrive. By Tamara Duker Freuman. + More. If you’ve eaten anything that comes in a box, a bar shape or package carrying a “high fiber” or “ gluten-free ” claim, there’s a very good chance you’ve partaken of inulin, also known as chicory root fiber or chicory root extract.
Similarly, scanning the ingredient labels of these foods for “inulin” or “chicory root” is also advisable: 1  Energy, protein, meal replacement and granola bars. 2  Ready-to-drink protein shakes and smoothies. 3  100-calorie yogurts/Greek yogurts. 4  Coconut milk-based yogurts and frozen “ice creams”. By Tamara Duker Freuman. + More. If you’ve eaten anything that comes in a box, a bar shape or package carrying a “high fiber” or “ gluten-free ” claim, there’s a very good chance you’ve partaken of inulin, also known as chicory root fiber or chicory root extract.