(1) In computer science an image is an exact replica of the contents of a storage device (a hard disk drive or CD-ROM for example) stored on a second storage device. (2) The term image is also used in place of the term digital image, which is an optically formed duplicate or other reproduction of an object formed by a lens or mirror. See also graphics.
1. An image, digital image, or still image is a binary representation of visual information such as drawings, pictures, graphs, logos, or individual video frames. Digital images can be saved electronically on any storage device. The following example image is a modified picture of a computer CPU with a heat sink. In this example, a digital camera was used to take the photographs, and then the text was added using photo editing software. 2.
An artist creates an image-perhaps of his father. The definition of an image is a representation of something or someone or a photograph or an idea you're picturing in your head or the way you or others think of you. 1  An example of an image is a painting of your father. image-Computer Definition. A still photograph or other still visual representation of a person, place, or thing.Video comprises a series of still images presented in rapid succession. (1) A picture. A graphic. See graphics. (2) To picture. To display. (3) See system image.
disk image a disk image is a software copy of a physical disk it saves the entire data from the disk including the file structure and all files and folders from the disk in a single file this means they do not have a file system which tells the computer how to access the files and folders in the disk image therefore in order for the data in a disk image to be readable by the computer the image must first be mounted by either the operating system or a disk utility program
ISO Image. Definition. An ISO image (or ISO file) is a computer file that is an exact copy of an existing file system which contains the complete contents of a CD disc or other disk. ISO images are often created to backup a CD or distribute CD's over the Internet. This term was viewed 8,413 times.
CD image redirects here. For ISO 9660 image files, see ISO image. Disk images, in computing, are computer files containing the contents and structure of a disk volume or an entire data storage device, such as a hard disk drive, tape drive, floppy disk, optical disc or USB flash drive. 
A disk image is a software copy of a physical disk. It saves the entire data from the disk, including the file structure and all files and folders from the disk, in a single file. Programs like Apple Disk Utility and Roxio Toast can create disk images for Mac OS X. Most disk image files store data in a raw, binary format. This means they do not have a file system, which tells the computer how to access the files and folders in the disk image. Therefore, in order for the data in a disk image to be readable by the computer, the image must first be mounted by either the operating system or a disk utility program
When you reimage a hard disk, you restore the entire disk from a disk image file. Since this restore process involves erasing all the current data on the hard disk, it is typically used a last resort system recovery option. The disk image used to restore a computer may be a recent backup from the computer's hard drive or it may be disk image with completely new data. Most home users would reimage a hard disk from a personal backup file, such as a Norton Ghost disk image (Windows) or a Time Machine backup (Mac)