A meningioma is a type of tumor that develops from the meninges, the membrane that surrounds the brain and spinal cord. There are three layers of meninges, called the dura mater, arachnoid and pia mater. 
There are 3 layers of meninges: the pia mater adheres to the brain and spinal cord; the dura mater is next to the skull, and the arachnoid mater i … s in-between the two. The pia mater.     There are 3 layers of meninges: the pia mater adheres to the brain and spinal cord; the dura mater is next to the skull, and the arachnoid mater i … s in-between the two. + 8 others found this useful. Yvetta Griffin-Jackson
The meninges (/məˈnɪndʒiːz/ , singular: meninx (/ˈmiːnɪŋks/ or /ˈmɛnɪŋks/), from Ancient Greek: μῆνιγξ mēninx membrane, adjectival: meningeal /məˈnɪndʒəl/) are the membranes that envelop the brain and spinal cord of the central nervous system. Normally, the dura mater is attached to the skull, in the spinal cord, the dura mater is separated from the bone (vertebrae) by a space called the epidural space, which contain fat and blood vessels. The arachnoid is attached to the dura mater, while the pia mater is attached to the central nervous system tissue
Three layers of membranes, called meninges, lying just under the skull, protect the brain and spinal cord. From the outermost layer inward they are: the dura mater, arachnoid mater, and pia mater. A meningioma grows from the arachnoid cells that form the middle layer, and are firmly attached to the dura. A meningioma is a type of tumor that grows from the protective membranes, called meninges, which surround the brain and spinal cord. Most meningiomas are benign (not cancerous) and slow growing; however, some can be malignant.
The spinal cord (and brain) are protected by three layers of tissue or membranes called meninges, that surround the canal. The dura mater is the outermost layer, and it forms a tough protective coating. Between the dura mater and the surrounding bone of the vertebrae is a space called the epidural space. 
hyperostosis: an excessive growth of bone. meninges: three membranes (pia mater, arachnoid mater, and dura mater) that surround the brain and spinal cord. hemangiopericytoma: very uncommon type of meningioma, highly vascular and usually fast growing. A meningioma is a type of tumor that grows from the protective membranes, called meninges, which surround the brain and spinal cord. Most meningiomas are benign (not cancerous) and slow growing; however, some can be malignant.
The meninges are three layers of protective tissue called the dura mater, arachnoid mater, and pia mater that surround the neuraxis. The meninges of the brain and spinal cord are continuous, being linked through the magnum foramen. Dura Mater The dura mater is the most superior of the meningeal layers. Its name means hard mother in Latin and it is tough and inflexible.
Spinal cord. The spinal cord, about 45 cm in length, extends from the foramen magnum, where it is continuous with the medulla oblongata, to the level of the first or second lumbar vertebra (The range is T12 to L3). Below that level, the vertebral canal is occupied by spinal nerve roots and meninges. Dura mater. The spinal cord, like the brain, is surrounded by the three meninges. The dura mater extends from the foramen magnum to the sacrum and coccyx (see fig. 41-1). The dura is attached to the foramen magnum and the periosteium covering the uppemost cervical vertebrae and their ligaments.