1 In sound waves, energy is transferred through vibration of air particles or particles of a solid through which the sound travels. 2  In water waves, energy is transferred through the vibration of the water particles. 1 In electromagnetic waves, energy is transferred through vibrations of electric and magnetic fields. 2  In sound waves, energy is transferred through vibration of air particles or particles of a solid through which the sound travels. 3  In water waves, energy is transferred through the vibration of the water particles.
Waves can transfer energy over distance without movingmatter the entire distance. For example, an ocean wave can travelmany kilometers without the water itself moving many kilometers.The water moves up and down—a motion known as a disturbance.It is the disturbance that travels in a wave, transferring energy. 
1 The difference between waves and regular matter moving around to transfer energy, is that a wave pulse starts in one spot and, except for a small amount of movement, the particles of the wave stay in one spot. Transverse waves are the waves that have the classical wave shape everyone thinks of when they imagine a wave. 1  Particles of the medium move perpendicular to the direction the transverse wave itself is moving. 2  For example, if the wave is moving to the right, the particles of the medium are moving up and down.
Transverse waves. In transverse waves, the oscillations (vibrations) are at right angles to the direction of travel and energy transfer. Light and other types of electromagnetic radiation are transverse waves. All types of electromagnetic waves travel at the same speed through a vacuum, such as through space. 
One way to categorize waves is to say that there are longitudinal and transverse waves. In a transverse wave, particles of the medium are displaced in a direction perpendicular to the direction of energy transport. In a longitudinal wave, particles of the medium are displaced in a direction parallel to energy transport. The animation below depicts a longitudinal pulse in a medium. In this type of wave-a longitudinal wave-the particles of the medium vibrate in a direction parallel to the direction of energy transport. For more information on physical descriptions of waves, visit The Physics Classroom Tutorial. Detailed information is available there on the following topics:
Waves are vibrations that transfer energy from place to place without matter-solid, liquid or gas-being transferred. Think of a Mexican wave in a football crowd. The wave moves around the stadium, while each spectator stays in their seat-only moving up, and then down, when it is their turn. 
Mechanical Waves are waves which propagate through a material medium (solid, liquid, or gas) at a wave speed which depends on the elastic and inertial properties of that medium. There are two basic types of wave motion for mechanical waves: longitudinal waves and transverse waves. 
Longitudinal Wave. A wave is a disturbance of a medium which transports energy through the medium without permanently transporting matter. In a wave, particles of the medium are temporarily displaced and then return to their original position. In this type of wave-a longitudinal wave-the particles of the medium vibrate in a direction parallel to the direction of energy transport. For more information on physical descriptions of waves, visit The Physics Classroom Tutorial. Detailed information is available there on the following topics: