Cattle. The primary objective of ranching is sustainability of range resources. The ranching business remains a vital component of contemporary King Ranch operations, and is an ongoing, living link with the legendary past of Captain King’s domain.
Central America isn't the only region where cattle ranching occurs. In Brazil, cattle ranches occupy somewhere around 8.4 million hectares (20.7 million acres), averaging 24,000 hectares (59,300 acres) each, with some as large as 560,000 hectares (1,383,760 acres). Cattle...cow...mooooo...Cows basically live on a pasture and graze the land. When they reach a certain size and weight, they are slaughtered for either human or pet consumption in the form of: hamburgers, steaks, luncheon meats, baby food, sausage, and frozen foods; and pet food for your cat or dog.
Cattle ranching in the Great Plains of the United States and Canada differs from the raising of beef cattle on small farms farther east. In the Great Plains it is the primary activity, not an adjunct to farming, and it is conducted on horseback (and, more recently, out of a pickup truck). Ranching, as it developed on the Plains, was well adapted to the physical environment. Cattle were able to consume the nutrient-rich grasses, just as the bison had. Even today, grass is the most important natural resource for ranchers, and little tillage agriculture takes place in order to sustain the herds.
Cattle Ranching. Ranching is not just a business, it’s a way of life. And it’s a 365 day a year commitment. Regardless of the weather, holidays, or any other plans we may have, the cattle have to be taken care of. There are four main seasons on a working cattle ranch: calving, branding, haying and shipping.
Arizona’s Cattle Community. Like mining, cattle ranching brought people to Arizona. Also like mining, it is an industry that must constantly adapt to a changing environment and limited resources. Cattle ranching is now about half what it was during its peak, but this Arizona C remains a large source of revenue. 
People who own or operate a ranch are called ranchers, cattlemen, or stockgrowers. Ranching is also a method used to raise less common livestock such as elk, American bison or even ostrich, emu, and alpacas. Ranches generally consist of large areas, but may be of nearly any size. View of the Grant-Kohrs Ranch near Deer Lodge, Montana. A ranch is a type of farm and an area of landscape, including various structures, given primarily to the practice of ranching, the practice of raising grazing livestock such as cattle or sheep for meat or wool.
However, ranching can be used in a more general way, and can be applied to a piece of land that is not over 1,000 acres and has more than just cattle. It depends on what the owner wants to call it. This is my specialty. Cows and cattle have been a part of my life since before I can remember, and it reflects in how this topic is something I am very knowledgeable in. Ranching is a more extensive way of raising cattle, which often involves horses, lots of cattle and over 1,000 acres of land. Ranch land primarily covers native prairie or forested land (except for the ranches where the rain forest is cut down and burned) which cattle are raised and grazed on