Polymers that contain only a single type of repeat unit are known as homopolymers, while polymers containing a mixture of repeat units are known as copolymers. Poly(styrene), for example, is composed only of styrene monomer residues, and is therefore classified as a homopolymer. An important optical parameter in the polymer used in laser applications is the change in refractive index with temperature also known as dn/dT. For the polymers mentioned here the (dn/dT) ~ −1.4 × 10 −4 in units of K −1 in the 297 ≤ T ≤ 337 K range.
The term polymer derives from the ancient Greek word πολύς (polus, meaning many, much) and μέρος (meros, meaning parts), and refers to a molecule whose structure is composed of multiple repeating units, from which originates a characteristic of high relative molecular mass and attendant properties. An important optical parameter in the polymer used in laser applications is the change in refractive index with temperature also known as dn/dT. For the polymers mentioned here the (dn/dT) ~ −1.4 × 10 −4 in units of K −1 in the 297 ≤ T ≤ 337 K range.
Polymer Definition. A polymer is a large molecule made up of chains or rings of linked monomer units. Polymers usually have high melting and boiling points. Examples: PVC (poly vinyl chloride), polystyrene, cellulose. 
Polymer means many monomers. Sometimes polymers are also known as macromolecules or large-sized molecules. Usually, polymers are organic (but not necessarily). A monomer is a molecule that is able to bond in long chains. Here is a monomer: Here is a polymer: A polymer can be made up of thousands of monomer. This linking up of monomers is called polymerization. It is the long chains that give polymers their unique properti
The term polymer is derived from the Greek poly, meaning many, and mer, meaning parts  thus polymers are substances made of many parts. In most cases the parts are small molecules which react together hundreds, or thousands, or millions of times. A molecule used in producing a polymer is a monomer  mono is Greek for single, thus a monomer is a single part. A polymer made entirely from molecules of one monomer is referred to as a homopolymer. Chains that contain two or more different repeating monomers are copolymers.
Poly means many and mer means parts.. So polymer means many parts.. The parts are usually the same part used repeatedly in a chain-like manner. Polymers are also referred to as plastics because they are easily molded. Nature has many examples of polymers. Cotton fibers are made of sugar molecules that are repeated in a chain-like manner. Hair, wool, and other natural fibers are polymers. They are made by chaining one or two substances one after another.
A polymer (/ˈpɒlɨmər/) (Greek poly- , many + -mer, parts) is a large molecule, or macromolecule, composed of many repeated subunits. An important optical parameter in the polymer used in laser applications is the change in refractive index with temperature also known as dn/dT. For the polymers mentioned here the (dn/dT) ~ −1.4 × 10 −4 in units of K −1 in the 297 ≤ T ≤ 337 K range.
Some familiar house-hold synthetic polymers include: Nylons in textiles and fabrics, Teflon in non-stick pans, Bakelite for electrical switches, polyvinyl chloride (PVC) in pipes, etc. The common PET bottles are made of a synthetic polymer, polyethylene terephthalate. The back bones of common synthetic polymers such as polythene and polystyrene, poly acrylates are made up of carbon-carbon bonds, whereas hetero chain polymers such as polyamides, polyesters, polyurethanes polysulfides and polycarbonates have other elements (e.g. oxygen, sulfur, nitrogen) inserted along the backbone.
Intro to Polymers. The term polymer is commonly used today in the plastics and composites industry, and it is often used to imply the meaning of plastic or resin. In actuality, the term polymer means much more. A polymer is chemical compound where molecules are bonded together in long repeating chains. Polymers are both man made and are naturally occurring. For example, rubber is a natural polymeric material that is extremely useful and has been used by man for thousands of years. Rubber has excellent elastic properties, and this is a result of the molecular polymer chain created by mother nature.
Well, usually a single polymer molecule is made out of hundreds of thousands (or even millions!) of monomers! Wow! That's a lot! By the way, we use the special name of monomer because not all molecules can form polymers. Click here to find out.). This is called the repeat structure or the repeat unit. Mouse over the polymer below to see the repeat units: The repeat unit is put inside brackets, and the subscript n just stands for the n umber of repeat units in the polymer chain.