Coordinated contractions of cardiac muscle cells in the heart propel blood out of the atria and ventricles to the blood vessels of the left/body/systemic and right/lungs/pulmonary circulatory systems. This complex mechanism illustrates systole of the heart. Cardiac muscle is one of three major types of muscle, the others being skeletal and smooth muscle. These three types of muscle all form in the process of myogenesis.
An isolated cardiac muscle cell, beating. Cardiac muscle (heart muscle) is involuntary striated muscle that is found in the walls and histological foundation of the heart, specifically the myocardium. Cardiac muscle is one of three major types of muscle, the others being skeletal and smooth muscle. These three types of muscle all form in the process of myogenesis.
Right Atrium: The upper right chamber of the heart. During the normal cardiac cycle, theright atrium receives deoxygenated blood from the body (blood from the head and upperbody arrives through the superior vena cava, while blood from the legs and lower torsoarrives through the inferior vena cava). Right Ventricle: The lower right chamber of the heart. During the normal cardiac cycle, the right ventriclereceives deoxygenated blood as the right atrium contracts. During this process the pulmonary valve is closed,allowing the right ventricle to fill.
A small cluster of cells called the sinoatrial nodes initiate the contraction of the heart. The heart is just a muscle that pumps blood through the body. When the heart contracts it is pushing the blood around your body. There is a nice, though not too in depth, vide … o on the NOVA website: See the Related Link. Answered.
Blood Flow The heart's cycle begins when oxygen-poorblood from the body flows into the rightatrium. Next the blood flows through the rightatrium into the right ventricle, which serves asa pump that sends the blood to the lungs.Within the lungs, the blood releases wastegases and picks up oxygen. Right Ventricle: The lower right chamber of the heart. During the normal cardiac cycle, the right ventriclereceives deoxygenated blood as the right atrium contracts. During this process the pulmonary valve is closed,allowing the right ventricle to fill.
Blood passes from the left atrium through the mitral valve and into the left ventricle. The left ventricle, the largest and most muscular of the four chambers, is the main pumping chamber of the heart. When the left ventricle contracts, blood is pumped through the aortic valve into the main artery of the body (aorta). Blood that has traveled through the body returns to the heart and enters the right atrium. This blood flows through the tricuspid valve into the right ventricle. The right ventricle pumps the blood to the lungs, where it absorbs oxygen. Oxygen-rich blood returns from the lungs and enters the heart through the left atrium
Fish have 2 chambers, one atrium and one ventricle. Fish hearts draw in deoxygenated blood in the atrium, and pump it out through a ventricle. Blood enters the heart, gets pumped through the gills and the oxygenated blood goes out to the body. Amphibians and reptiles have 3 chambers: 2 atria and a ventricle. The above diagram is an action potential recorded in the ventricular cardiac cell of the heart. 4) Resting potentials in these cells is set by a large K+ permeability due to a combintation of the leak K+ channel and a voltage-gated K+ channel (called the inward rectifier K+ channel) that is open at rest.
The conducting system of the heart consists of cardiac muscle cells and conducting fibers (not nervous tissue) that are specialized for initiating impulses and conducting them rapidly through the heart (see the image below). They initiate the normal cardiac cycle and coordinate the contractions of cardiac chambers. 
Conduction System. An electrical impulse travels through the heart and initiates contractions of the chambers. The heart's spark plug is an area of specialized heart tissue called the sinoatrial node (SA node) , which is located in the right atrium. Blood that has traveled through the body returns to the heart and enters the right atrium. This blood flows through the tricuspid valve into the right ventricle. The right ventricle pumps the blood to the lungs, where it absorbs oxygen. Oxygen-rich blood returns from the lungs and enters the heart through the lef