Noun. 1. antidiuretic hormone-hormone secreted by the posterior pituitary gland (trade name Pitressin) and also by nerve endings in the hypothalamus; affects blood pressure by stimulating capillary muscles and reduces urine flow by affecting reabsorption of water by kidney tubules. ADH, Pitressin, vasopressin.
Practice Essentials. The syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (ADH) secretion (SIADH) is defined by the hyponatremia and hypo-osmolality resulting from inappropriate, continued secretion or action of the hormone despite normal or increased plasma volume, which results in impaired water excretion. 
ADH (antidiuretic hormone): A peptide molecule that is released by the pituitary gland at the base of the brain after being made nearby (in the hypothalamus). ADH has an antidiuretic action that prevents the production of dilute urine (and so is antidiuretic). 
ADH is also called arginine vasopressin. It is a water-regulating hormone made by the hypothalamus (in the brain), and stored in the posterior pituitary gland. ADH is the chemical that tells the kidneys how much water to conserve. ADH constantly regulates and balances the amount of water in the blood. ADH is a hormone that helps your kidneys manage the amount of water in your body. The test is seldom used alone, but is often combined with other tests to find out what is causing too much or too little of this hormone to be present
Medical Definition of VASOPRESSIN. : a polypeptide hormone that is secreted together with oxytocin by the posterior lobe of the pituitary gland, is also obtained synthetically, and increases blood pressure and exerts an antidiuretic effect—called also antidiuretic hormone, beta-hypophamine; see arginine vasopressin, lysine vasopressin, pitressin. Definition of VASOPRESSIN. : a polypeptide hormone secreted by the posterior lobe of the pituitary gland or obtained synthetically that increases blood pressure and decreases urine flow —called also antidiuretic hormone. ADVERTISEMENT. from Vasopressin, a trademark.
Antidiuretic hormone (ADH): A relatively small (peptide) molecule that is released by the pituitary gland at the base of the brain after being made nearby (in the hypothalamus). ADH has an antidiuretic action that prevents the production of dilute urine (and so is antidiuretic). A syndrome of inappropriate secretion of ADH results in the inability to put out dilute urine, perturbs fluid (and electrolyte) balance, and causes nausea, vomiting, muscle cramps, confusion and convulsions.
The hormone is stored in and released by the pituitary gland. ADH controls how your body releases and conserves water. When ADH (also called vasopressin) is produced somewhere other than the hypothalamus, the condition is called syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH).
Vasopressin, also known as arginine vasopressin (AVP), antidiuretic hormone (ADH), or argipressin, is a neurohypophysial hormone found in most mammals. Its two primary functions are to retain water in the body and to constrict blood vessels. Vasopressin is a peptide hormone that increases water permeability of the kidney's collecting duct and distal convoluted tubule by inducing translocation of aquaporin-CD water channels in the plasma membrane of collecting duct cells.