By THE NEW YORK TIMES. Alfred Emanuel Smith, four times Governor of this State, who rose from the sidewalks of New York to eminence in public life and in the hearts of many Americans, died early today at the age of 70 in Rockefeller Institute Hospital. 
Bowling Green New Chrysler, Dodge, Jeep, Ram & Used car Dealership serving Toledo, Maumee, Perrysburg & Fostoria with Auto Parts, Service & Financing since 1966. You're Gonna Be Treated Like Family, at Al Smith Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram! As a long-standing pillar of the state of Ohio, Al Smith Chrysler Dodge Jeep Ram realizes that it's our dedicated customers that have kept our new and used car dealership thriving in the Toledo, Bowling Green OH, Napoleon OH, Maumee, Perrysburg and Fostoria areas for so many years.
Al Smith with his wife. After serving in the patronage-rich job of sheriff of New York County, Smith was elected President of the Board of Aldermen of the City of New York in 1917. 
Voter realignment. In long-term perspective Al Smith started a voter realignment — a new coalition — based among ethnics and big cities that spelled the end of classless politics of the Fourth Party System and helped usher in the Fifth Party System or New Deal coalition of Franklin D. Roosevelt. Al Smith (1873-1944), was the dominant Democratic politician in New York State in the 1920s and was elected governor five times. He was defeated in the 1928 Presidential Election. Smith was a leader of the Progressive Era because of his efficiency-oriented, growth-promoting pro-business policies as governor.
Alfred E. Smith. Alfred Emmanuel Smith was born on Manhattan s teeming Lower East Side. He was of primarily Irish descent. Alfred was forced to quit parochial school after his father's death and worked for a while at the famous Fulton Fish Market. 
(1) Frances Perkins wrote about Al Smith and his attempts to become president in her book, The Roosevelt I Knew (1946). People who had willingly voted for Al Smith as Governor time after time turned tail when it came to voting for him for President. Alfred (Al) Smith was born in New York City on 30th December, 1873. After a brief formal education he found employment in the Fulton fish market. He become a member of the Democratic Party and in 1903 was elected to the state assembly. In 1911 he became a member of a commission investigating factory conditions.
Innovation has a name. When it comes to high efficiency water heaters, no one comes close to matching the expertise and innovation of. . Whether you need a gas, an electric, or a tankless water heater, the inventive minds at. have one waiting for you. 
Synopsis. Al Smith was born Dec. 30, 1873, in New York, N.Y. His political career was launched in 1895, when Tammany Hall appointed him an investigator in the office of the New York City commissioner of jurors. 