There is a spiritual death in trespasses and sins, i.e., the death of the soul under the power of sin (Romans 8:6; Ephesians 2:1 Ephesians 2:3; Colossians 2:13). The second death (Revelation 2:11) is the everlasting perdition of the wicked (Revelation 21:8), and second in respect to natural or temporal death. 
Death. Death is understood two main ways in the Bible. First, it is used to describe the cessation of life; this can be physical or spiritual. Second, death is used in reference to those who are in a life of sin. This refers to their eternal separation from God as a result of sin (Isaiah 59:2)--in a conscious state of damnation without hope (1 Thess.
Another, narrow, purified meaning of spiritual death is death in a spiritual way, to die being a spiritual person, not being an atheist. Thus this means that spiritual death relates to two egos: soul (real self, which is eternal), and ego (false self, which is temporary or material). Difference in meanings come from misidentification of eternal soul to be spiritually dead or material, which is nonsense for theist. As put by the LDS Church, the body is as a glove, and the spirit the hand that moves. One cannot say dead life, or alive death. For contrast you can guess what is the meaning of material life: life is always spiritual, though material life would mean just to live having materialistic values.
First, we need to maintain the distinction, as Scripture does, between physical death and spiritual death. The Bible speaks of the two distinctly, but they share one common characteristic. The Biblical definition of death-whether physical or spiritual-is not non-existence, but separation. (Revelation 21:8). Revelation 14:11 says that the smoke of their torment ascends forever and ever; and they have no rest day or night.. In neither case does the Biblical definition of death-physical or spiritual-imply or entail cessation of existence. Quite the contrary.
The Biblical definition of spiritual death is the absence of having spiritual life, which is only available in the Lord Jesus Christ (1 John 5:12). Before one gets born again he is spiritually dead in his sins and lost (Eph. 
Answer: Death is separation. A physical death is the separation of the soul from the body. Spiritual death, which is of greater significance, is the separation of the soul from God. In Genesis 2:17, God tells Adam that in the day he eats of the forbidden fruit he will surely die.