Itchy skin, also known as pruritus, is an irritating and uncontrollable sensation that makes you want to scratch to relieve the feeling. The possible causes for itchiness range from internal illnesses, such as kidney or liver disease, to skin rashes, allergies, and dermatitis. Many skin conditions that are common can cause itchy skin. The following can affect any area of skin on the body: 1  dermatitis: inflammation of the skin. 2  eczema: a chronic skin disorder that includes itchy, scaly rashes. 3  psoriasis: an autoimmune disease that causes skin redness and irritation, usually in the form of plaques.
And, with so many things coming into contact with your skin daily, you're bound to get an itch or two. Serious itching can be caused by allergies, disease, emotions and infections, but let's take a look at what causes the common itches that aggravate you everyday. Itching, also known as pruritus, starts with some kind of external stimuli, including bugs, dust, clothing fibers and hair. 
Itch in contrast creates a scratch reflex, which draws one to the affected skin site. Itch generates stimulus of a foreign object underneath or upon the skin and also the urge to remove it. For example, responding to a local itch sensation is an effective way to remove insects from one's skin. Scratching has traditionally been regarded as a way to relieve oneself by reducing the annoying itch sensation. 1 Pruritus ani (also known as anusitis), irritation of skin at the exit of the rectum (anus), causing the desire to scratch. 2  Referred itch, phenomenon in which a stimulus applied in one region of the body is felt as an itch or irritation in a different part of the body.
Substances that irritate the skin and make it itchy are common. Plants such as poison ivy and oak and insects such as mosquitoes produce substances that cause itching. Some people get itchy when in contact with wool, perfumes, certain soaps or dyes, and chemicals. Many skin conditions that are common can cause itchy skin. The following can affect any area of skin on the body: 1  dermatitis: inflammation of the skin. 2  eczema: a chronic skin disorder that includes itchy, scaly rashes. 3  psoriasis: an autoimmune disease that causes skin redness and irritation, usually in the form of plaques.
Swimmer's itch, also called cercarial dermatitis, appears as a skin rash caused by an allergic reaction to certain microscopic parasites that infect some birds and mammals. These parasites are released from infected snails into fresh and salt water (such as lakes, ponds, and oceans). Because swimmer's itch is caused by an allergic reaction to infection, the more often you swim or wade in contaminated water, the more likely you are to develop more serious symptoms.
Itch is likely to be more than a localized phenomenon in the place we scratch. Results from a study showed that itching and scratching were induced purely by visual stimuli in a public lecture on itching. The sensation of pain can also be induced in a similar fashion, often by listening to a description of an injury. 1 Pruritus ani (also known as anusitis), irritation of skin at the exit of the rectum (anus), causing the desire to scratch. 2  Referred itch, phenomenon in which a stimulus applied in one region of the body is felt as an itch or irritation in a different part of the body.
itch. n. 1. an irritation or tickling sensation of the skin causing a desire to scratch. 2. a restless desire. 3. (Pathology) any skin disorder, such as scabies, characterized by intense itching. vb. 4. (intr) to feel or produce an irritating or tickling sensation. 5. (intr) to have a restless desire (to do something). 
Causes of Itch. Allergy (Allergies) An allergy refers to a misguided reaction by our immune system in response to bodily contact with certain foreign substances. ...learn more ». Anal Itching Anal itching is the irritation of the skin at the exit of the rectum, known as the anus, accompanied by the desire to scratch. It may feel as if something is crawling on (or in) your skin. Itching can be diffuse (generalized all over the body) or localized -- all over or confined to a specific spot -- and there are many causes of diffuse and localized itching.
Itch (Latin: pruritus) is a sensation that causes the desire or reflex to scratch. Itch has resisted many attempts to classify it as any one type of sensory experience. 1 Pruritus ani (also known as anusitis), irritation of skin at the exit of the rectum (anus), causing the desire to scratch. 2  Referred itch, phenomenon in which a stimulus applied in one region of the body is felt as an itch or irritation in a different part of the body.
A. Itching can be caused by many conditions. A common cause of itch is psychological, that is, due to stress, anxiety, etc. Stress also can aggravate itch from other causes. Dry skin (xerosis) is another frequent cause of itch. Many people also report sunburn itch following prolonged exposure to UV radiation from the sun. 191 Followers. 