Yes, wild rabbits do eat zucchini and other vegetables, but it isn't a major part of their diet, it's like a treat to them. Mostly, wild rabbits eat grass, twigs, weeds, and d … ark leafy greens like lettuces, carrot tops, etc. Wild rabbits eat alfalfa, timothy, oat crops, vegetables from a garden (but the crops must be pesticide free) grasses, clover, herbs, wild berries and seeds. Wild rabbits are herbivores and the eat grass, forbs and leafy weeds. They also eat vegetable. (The enjoy eating vegetable's in a garden if there is no fence.).
Wild rabbits Wild rabbits spend much of their time foraging in meadows and fields eating wild grasses, herbs, flowers, leaves, and twigs. They also consume some fruits, vegetables, and grains as they come across them, but these do not make up a large part of their diet. Rabbits mostly eat lettuce, carrots and vegetables. Rabbits eat grass because they don't have sharp teeth. Pet rabbits Pet bunnies require a special diet high in fibre, moderate in proteins, low in fats, calcium, and sugar, and with the right mix of vitamins and nutrients. This diet basically mimics the diet of a wild rabbi
Rabbits in the wild can eat lettuce because they are also free to eat herbs and minerals that counteract the lettuce's effects; you can mimic this diet with a rotation of herbs, weeds, and other greens in your rabbit's salad. Rabbits mostly eat lettuce, carrots and vegetables. Rabbits eat grass because they don't have sharp teeth. Pet rabbits Pet bunnies require a special diet high in fibre, moderate in proteins, low in fats, calcium, and sugar, and with the right mix of vitamins and nutrients. This diet basically mimics the diet of a wild rabbit
Report Abuse. Rabbits are grazers and feed on a wide assortment of fresh grasses, leaves, weeds, fruits, etc. Wild rabbits will commonly get all the moisture they need from the greens they eat and often do not even need to drink water. In a pinch, they will even eat tree bark. Lorinne Anderson, Second Chance Wildlife Centre. Email: scwc@island.net Wildlife Website: http://www.geocities.com/coonladylori/in...
Overview. When you plant an herb garden and put your time, dedication and heart into it, it's a shame to let pests such as rabbits turn it into a wasteland. Rabbits love to roam into herb gardens and munch on your herbs, as well as trample other plants. Take a few precautions with your herb garden to help repel rabbits so you can enjoy the rewards of your work. Step 1. Use garden or anti-animal netting and drape it over the herb garden. To prevent a rabbit from moving it, pin the netting down on the sides with wooden or metal stakes, or place rocks on top of the netting.
Rabbits should not eat any dairy, meat products or bi-products, grains, nuts, seeds, or processed human foods (cereals, crackers, cookies, etc). Avoid giving your rabbit any plants that have fertilizers on them, pesticides, or parasites left by other animals. Rabbits mostly eat lettuce, carrots and vegetables. Rabbits eat grass because they don't have sharp teeth. Pet rabbits Pet bunnies require a special diet high in fibre, moderate in proteins, low in fats, calcium, and sugar, and with the right mix of vitamins and nutrients. This diet basically mimics the diet of a wild rabbit
Rabbits usually love fresh veggies and herbs, I feed mine Romaine lettuce as well as parsley and carrots. Here's a website with feeding info and other good foods that rabbits can eat. http://www.cuhumane.org/topics/rabfeed.h... RE: can rabbits eat fresh herbs/ parsley and basil? my family has a rabbit and my mom wants to know if a rabbit can eat the herbs. they are fresh because we grow them at our house. our rabbit is 9 months old