The trench coat was developed as an alternative to the heavy serge greatcoats worn by British and French soldiers in the First World War. Invention of the trench coat is claimed by both Burberry and Aquascutum, with Aquascutum's claim dating back to the 1850s. Thomas Burberry, the inventor of gabardine fabric, submitted a design for an Army officer's raincoat to the United Kingdom War Office in 1901.
While the trench coat's popularity was not restricted to the battlefield, the qualities embodied by the armed forces did help widen its appeal. Even during the war you got ads in the Illustrated London News for the Burberry trench coat being sold to men and women, said Ms Butchart. It was a unisex item.
Thomas Burberry invented gabardine in 1880, the fabric used to construct most trench coats. Gabardine is very tightly woven fabric, and therefore repels rain (remember, the trench coat is actually a rain coat, not just a fashion item!) Gabardine is breathable, lightweight, and doesn’t crease easily.
Burberry and Aquascutum both claim to have “invented” the trench coat, however Aquascutum’s design dates back to 1850, whereas Burberry’s first trench was in 1901. Burberry trench coats. Anyway, this is Fashion FACTS, not Fashion Speculation, so let’s get down to what we know.
1 The coats were first used in the Boer War in 1895 - Burberry developed them further and supplied about half a million during World War One. 2  London's Aquascutum, meanwhile, claims to have used designs which later formed the basis for the trench coat as early as the 1850s.
In 1914 Thomas Burberry also widely known for his namesake brand Burberry invented in World War I a weather-proof trench coat which was modified to include shoulder straps and D-rings for the British soldiers.
But away from catwalk shows and Hollywood glamour, the trench coat's first starring role was in World War One kitting out battle-weary soldiers. From Humphrey Bogart to Audrey Hepburn and Kate Moss, the trench coat is now synonymous with elan and sophistication.
Retired teacher with an advocation in history who loves to travel. The trench coat was made as an alternative to the great coat worn by French and British soldiers in WW1. Thomas Burberry made the first trench coat in 1920.