16S ribosomal RNA (or 16 S rRNA) is a component of the 30S small subunit of prokaryotic ribosomes. The genes coding for it are referred to as 16S rDNA and are used in reconstructing phylogenies, due to the slow rates of evolution of this region of the gene. 
In molecular biology, ribosomal ribonucleic acid (rRNA) is the RNA component of the ribosome, and is essential for protein synthesis in all living organisms. It constitutes the predominant material within the ribosome, which is approximately 60% rRNA and 40% protein by weight. Ribosomal RNA characteristics are important in medicine and in evolution. 1  rRNA is the target of several clinically relevant antibiotics: chloramphenicol, erythromycin, kasugamycin, micrococcin, paromomycin, ricin, sarcin, spectinomycin, streptomycin, and thiostrepton.
1 tRNA (transfer RNA) - Type of RNA that delivers amino acids to ribosomes during translation in the order specified by the mRNA. 2  rRNA (ribosomal RNA) - A type of RNA that becomes part of ribosomes. 1 mRNA (messenger RNA) - It's the only type of RNA that carries protein-building information. 2  tRNA (transfer RNA) - Type of RNA that delivers amino acids to ribosomes during translation in the order specified by the mRNA. 3
mRNA (messenger RNA) - It's the only type of RNA that carries protein-building informationtRNA (transfer RNA) - Type of RNA that delivers amino acids to ribosomes during trans … lation in the order specified by the mRNArRNA (ribosomal RNA) - A type of RNA that becomes part of ribosomes. Ribosomal RNA or rRNA is the main constituent of ribosomes. It  performs the peptidyl transferase function of combining amino acids  together via peptide bonds. Edit. Share to: Answered.
To begin, ribonucleic acids (RNA) are a group of large molecules that have many different roles. They are especially important in the coding, decoding, regulation, and expression of our genes. As the name implies, ribosomal RNA (rRNA) is part of the ribosome. A ribosome is the protein builder of the cell. The rest of a ribosome is made up of proteins. In addition, there are two rRNA in each ribosome, one in the large subunit and one in the small subunit. RNA polymerase is the protein that makes the copy of DNA. Ribosomal RNA (rRNA) is part of the ribosome, or protein builders of the cell. Ribosomes are responsible for translation or the process our cells use to make proteins. rRNA are responsible for reading the order of amino acids and linking amino acids together. They do this through a highly complex sequence
rRNA is the molecular component of ribosomes, essential in the protein processes. It makes polypetides (assemblies of amino acids) that go to make up proteins. It is the site of the chemical reaction that changes genetic information into the beginnings of a protein. The rRNA is made up of 2 subunits, 1 of a larger subunit and another of a larger subunit.
rRNA: Ribosomal RNA, a molecular component of a ribosome, the cell's essential protein factory. Strictly speaking, ribosomal RNA (rRNA) does not make proteins. It makes polypeptides (assemblies of amino acids) that go to make up proteins. 