Tremor is an unintentional, rhythmic muscle movement involving to-and-fro movements (oscillations) of one or more parts of the body. It is the most common of all involuntary movements and can affect the hands, arms, head, face, voice, trunk, and legs. Most tremors occur in the hands. In some people, tremor is a symptom of a neurological disorder or appears as a side effect of certain drugs. The most common form of tremor, however, occurs in otherwise largely healthy people. A useful way to understand and describe tremors is to define them according to the following types. Resting tremor occurs when the muscle is relaxed, such as when the hands are lying on the lap or hanging next to the trunk while standing or walking.
Functional movement disorders (FMDs) are clinical syndromes defined by the occurrence of abnormal involuntary movements that are incongruent with a known neurologic cause and are significantly improved on neurological exam with distraction or nonphysiologic maneuvers [ 1 ]. In most reports of adults and children with FMD, functional tremor is the most frequent type of involuntary movement, followed by functional dystonia [ 20,27-29 ].
Psychogenic movement is an unwanted muscle movement such as a spasm or tremor that is caused by an underlying psychological condition. Psychogenic movement can involve any part of the body and resemble the same muscle movements that occur with a biological condition or structural abnormality. Psychogenic movement is uncommon before the age of 10 years. In children, the dominant limb is most often affected, while adults most frequently see movement in the nondominant limb. Psychogenic movement disorders include: Psychogenic tremor (also called functional tremor) can appear as any form of tremor movement.
(January 2010). The diagnosis of functional neurological deficit (functional neurological disorder) provides an umbrella term for a variety of symptoms which look like medical symptoms but which have no medical cause. 
A functional movement disorder means that there is abnormal movement or positioning of part of the body due to the nervous system not working properly (but not due to an underlying neurological disease). Unlike other movement disorders (e.g., Parkinson's disease), a functional movement disorder is not caused by damage or disease of the nervous system. It is however due to a reversible problem in the way that the nervous system is working
Summary. Functional (psychogenic) movement disorders (FMD) are part of the wide spectrum of functional neurological disorders, which together account for over 16% of patients referred to neurology clinics. FMD have been described as a “crisis for neurology” and cause major challenges in terms of diagnosis and treatment. Functional tremor (FT) is the commonest presentation of FMD, accounting for at least 50% of patients. 9 Commonly, the historical features are as outlined earlier, with sudden onset, variability in severity with remissions, and variability in the body part affected.
Functional tremor is the commonest type of functional movement disorder. In functional tremor there is uncontrollable shaking of part of the body usually an arm or a leg. This is due to the nervous system not working properly but not due to an underlying neurological disease. Functional tremor is sometimes mistaken for Parkinsons disease or other causes of tremor such as 'Essential tremor'. A tremor is a rhythmical movement of an arm, leg or other body part such as the head. Functional tremor may come and go through the day. The tremor may become violent at times and change in speed.
Functional (psychogenic) movement disorders (FMD) are part of the wide spectrum of functional neurological disorders, which together account for over 16% of patients referred to neurology clinics. Functional tremor (FT) is the commonest presentation of FMD, accounting for at least 50% of patients. 9 Commonly, the historical features are as outlined earlier, with sudden onset, variability in severity with remissions, and variability in the body part affected.