Deforestation is a particular concern in tropical rainforests because these forests are home to much of the world’s biodiversity. For example, in the Amazon around 17% of the forest has been lost in the last 50 years, mostly due to forest conversion for cattle ranching. 
A rainforest is a forest differentiated by high levels of precipitation-normally a minimum of at least 68-78 inches (172-198 cm) annually. Rainforests tend to have fairly mild and/or warm climates and feature the highest levels of biodiversity in the world. The majority are found in Central and South America, but tropical rainforests also exist in Southeast Asia, eastern Australia, and central Africa (map of locations) . The largest in tact tropical rainforest in the world is in the Amazon River Basin.
The majority of the forest is contained within Brazil, with 60% of the rainforest, followed by Peru with 13%, Colombia with 10%, and with minor amounts in Venezuela, Ecuador, Bolivia, Guyana, Suriname and French Guiana. States or departments in four nations contain  Amazonas  in their names. The green leaf area of plants and trees in the rainforest varies by about 25% as a result of seasonal changes. Leaves expand during the dry season when sunlight is at a maximum, then undergo abscission in the cloudy wet season.
1 Canopy: rainforests have a canopy, which is the layer of branches and leaves formed by closely spaced rainforest trees [ picture 2  ]. Most of the plants and animals in the rainforest live in the canopy. 3  The canopy may be 100 feet (30 m) above the ground. Each rainforest is unique, but there are certain features common to all tropical rainforests. Location: rainforests lie in the tropics [map]. Rainfall: rainforests receive at least 80 inches (200 cm) of rain per year. Canopy: rainforests have a canopy, which is the layer of branches and leaves formed by closely spaced rainforest trees [picture]
1 Rainfall: rainforests receive at least 80 inches (200 cm) of rain per year. 2  Canopy: rainforests have a canopy, which is the layer of branches and leaves formed by closely spaced rainforest trees [ picture 3  ]. Most of the plants and animals in the rainforest live in the canopy. Each rainforest is unique, but there are certain features common to all tropical rainforests. Location: rainforests lie in the tropics [map]. Rainfall: rainforests receive at least 80 inches (200 cm) of rain per year. Canopy: rainforests have a canopy, which is the layer of branches and leaves formed by closely spaced rainforest trees [picture]
The Amazon represents over half of the planet's remaining rainforests, and comprises the largest and most biodiverse tract of tropical rainforest in the world, with an estimated 390 billion individual trees divided into 16,000 species. The green leaf area of plants and trees in the rainforest varies by about 25% as a result of seasonal changes. Leaves expand during the dry season when sunlight is at a maximum, then undergo abscission in the cloudy wet season.
An area of a rainforest the size of a football field is being destroyed each second. Giant bamboo plants can grow up to 9 inches a day. The trees of a tropical rainforest are so densely packed that rain falling on the canopy can take as long as 10 minutes to reach the ground. In the moist rainforests of South America, sloths move so slowly that algae are able to grow in their fur. Some rainforest monkeys are omnivores, eating both animals and plants.
The Daintree Rainforest is a tropical rainforest region on the north east coast of Queensland, Australia north of Mossman and Cairns. At around 1,200 km2 the Daintree is the largest continuous area of tropical rainforest on the Australian continent. Along the coastline north of the Daintree River, tropical rainforest grows right down to the edge of the sea.
The tropical rain forest is a forest of tall trees in a region of year-round warmth. An average of 50 to 260 inches (125 to 660 cm.) of rain falls yearly. Rain forests belong to the tropical wet climate group. In an average year the climate in a tropical rain forest is very humid because of all the rainfall. A tropical rainforest gets about 150 cm of rain per year. It gets lots of rain because it is very hot and wet in rain forests. The hotter the air, the more water vapor it can hold.