A gene mutation is a permanent alteration in the DNA sequence that makes up a gene, such that the sequence differs from what is found in most people. Mutations range in size; they can affect anywhere from a single DNA building block (base pair) to a large segment of a chromosome that includes multiple genes. 
Segmentation gene. Definition. noun, plural: segmentation genes. (1) Any of the genes involved in the early stages of pattern formation in the embryo. (2) A zygotic gene responsible for the formation of body segments. Supplement. The segmentation genes are classified into three groups: gap genes, pair-rule genes, and segment polarity genes. In Drosophila, the segmentation genes code for products responsible in forming stripes or segments in the fruit fly embryo. See also: zygotic gene
Your question is flawed. A codon is a unit of genetic information, just a tiny three-letter one. A gene is a unit of genetic information, just a larger one. However if the original question was multiple choice and went like this: A gene is: 1. A segment of DNA that carries a unit of information. 2. One arm of a single chromosome 3. A segment of DNA that is three nucleotides long. 4. The protein that results after translation is complete A gene is not 2, 3, or 4. 1 is the only option left. Best Answer: a segment of DNA that three nucleotides long. Three-letter sequences are called codons. They're a bit like words. gene. The recipe for one protein. A paragraph of codons.
Supplement. In zoology, segmentation refers to the division of a body part into segments. It may be homomeric segmentation in which the segments are more or less the same, or heteromeric segmentation wherein the segments differ from one another. Word origin: Latin segmentum + atio (process). Related term(s): 1  Segment. 
The term ' segmentation gene ' is a classification given to a broad class of genes that are further subdivided into three smaller classes of genes. Within the segmentation gene group, there are gap genes, pair-rule genes and segment polarity genes. They control development in this order. These segmentation genes control the development of segments, or small repeated regions of a body that make up specific structures. If you were to look at a fly embryo during development, you'd quickly notice these segments along their bodies.
1) Mutations in the segmentation genes gave us the first clue that the genes might function in a hierachy because the different classes of genes affectd progressively smaller regions of the embryo. (See Browder et al., 1991, Fig. 14.18; Gilbert, 1997, Fig. 14.18; Kalthoff, Fig. 21.6; Wolpert, 1998, Fig. Unlike the other classes of segmentation genes, the segment polarity genes include regulatory proteins other than transcription factors (i.e. secreted signaling molecules, receptors, kinases, etc.) and they mediate interactions between cells.
Segmentation Genes. It's true that your body shape has a lot to do with what you eat and how you exercise, but we all know that a lot of what you look like also comes from what is in your genes. They control development in this order. These segmentation genes control the development of segments, or small repeated regions of a body that make up specific structures. If you were to look at a fly embryo during development, you'd quickly notice these segments along their bodies.
The Hox genes are a set of transcription factor genes that exhibit an unusual property: They provide a glimpse of one way in which gene expression is translated into the many different forms that animals (metazoans) exhibit. The Hox genes are early actors in the cascade of interactions that enable the development of morphologically distinct regions in a segmented animal. Indeed, the activation of a Hox gene from the 3' end is one of the earliest triggers that lead the segment to develop into part of the head.