Belfort’s actual net worth is something of a mystery. He earned more than $2 million for the books and film rights (I thought they were fucking crazy, he says about actually getting published), five figures for speeches he gives, along with income from investments he’s made in Australia. 
Please try again later. He is known as the Wolf of Wall Street, and Jordan Ross Belfort seems to have earned the title. The boy from Queens, New York, grew into a business man charged with swindling millions of dollars through his investment firm. In 1999, Belfort pleaded guilty to fraud and was sentenced to four years in prison and a $110 million fine. He served 22 months in jail and now lives in California to be near his children. The film called The Wolf of Wall street, starring Leonardo DiCaprio, came out in 2013. Belfort has reportedly paid $14 million of the fine against him. His net worth is estimated at a not-so-promising, negative $96 million!
But in the past eight years Belfort has only paid back $11.6 million to his 1,500 or so clients, and most of that money came from selling off real estate even though he supposedly ran off with $200 million in cash based upon the convictions for money laundering and fraud. When Belfort was released from prison after just 22 months of a four-year sentence in 2006, the former financial broker founder still had a $110.4 million restitution order hanging over his head from the court system.
For example, some reports claim that Red Granite Productions paid Belfort $1.045 million for the rights to his story in 2011 in order to make the movie based upon his life. The government claims he only made $21,000 in restitution payments that year. When Belfort was released from prison after just 22 months of a four-year sentence in 2006, the former financial broker founder still had a $110.4 million restitution order hanging over his head from the court system.
About Jordan Belfort. Jordan Belfort is a Motivational Speaker, and Author. His Net Worth is in the Negative as he’s indebted to the tune of more than $100 Million in reparative damages caused by a pump and dump scheme his firm “Stratton Oakmont” used to defraud gullible investors to the tune of $200 Million. He is a Classic Example of Falling from Grace. He now earns a living doing Business Oriented Motivational Speeches, as well as the earnings off his 2 Best Sellers The Wolf Of Wall Street in 2008, and Catching The Wolf Of Wall Street. The Wolf Of Wall Street was made into a Movie in 2013.
-$100 Million. Jordan Belfort net worth: Jordan Belfort is an American author and motivational speaker who has a net worth of -$100 million dollars. Jordan Belfort was born in The Bronx, New York on July 9, 1962. He is probably most famous for being the founder of the financial brokerage firm, Stratton Oakmont. 
The government has seen nothing to suggest that even 100 per cent of Belfort’s profits from his book and the movie Wolf of Wall Street would yield, in his words, ‘countless millions,’ much less the approximately $100 million that is still owed to the victims.”. When Belfort was released from prison after just 22 months of a four-year sentence in 2006, the former financial broker founder still had a $110.4 million restitution order hanging over his head from the court system.
So even the government is questioning whether Jordan Belfort’s net worth may still be in the millions despite claiming otherwise. And this very question came up during an interview with 60 Minutes where reporter Liz Hayes asked this question: When Belfort was released from prison after just 22 months of a four-year sentence in 2006, the former financial broker founder still had a $110.4 million restitution order hanging over his head from the court system.