Most people with high blood pressure have essential hypertension (hyper=more + tension=pressure), meaning that the cause of the high blood pressure is unknown. However, one known cause of hypertension is renal artery stenosis (renal=kidney + stenosis=narrowing). Each kidney gets its blood flow via a renal artery that arises from the aorta, the major blood vessel from the heart. 
Appointments & care. At Mayo Clinic, we take the time to listen, to find answers and to provide you the best care. Renal artery stenosis is the narrowing of one or more arteries that carry blood to your kidneys (renal arteries). Narrowing of the arteries prevents normal amounts of oxygen-rich blood from reaching your kidneys. Your kidneys need adequate blood flow to help filter waste products and remove excess fluids. 
Renal artery stenosis is the narrowing of one or both of the renal arteries, most often caused by atherosclerosis or fibromuscular dysplasia. This narrowing of the renal artery can impede blood flow to the target kidney, resulting in renovascular hypertension – a secondary type of high blood pressure. Possible complications of renal artery stenosis are chronic kidney disease and coronary artery disease.
Renovascular hypertension occurs when the artery to one of the kidneys is narrowed (unilateral, or one-sided, stenosis), while renal failure occurs when the arteries to both kidneys are narrowed (bilateral, or two-sided, stenosis). The decreased blood flow to both kidneys increasingly impairs renal function. 
Causes of Renal Artery Stenosis. More than 90% of the time, renal artery stenosis is caused by atherosclerosis, a process in which plaque made up of fats, cholesterol, and other materials builds up on the walls of the blood vessels, including those leading to the kidneys.
Renovascular hypertension is as likely to occur with bilateral stenosis (when arteries to both kidneys are narrowed) as with unilateral stenosis (when the artery to one kidney is narrowed). The decreased blood flow to the kidneys impairs renal function. Renal artery stenosis may cause renal failure in some patients. There is no predictable relationship between renal failure and renal artery stenosis. Some patients have very severe bilateral stenosis and normal renal function
Sometimes, the first sign of renal artery stenosis is high blood pressure that is extremely hard to control, along with worsening of previously well-controlled high blood pressure, or elevated blood pressure that affects other organs in the body. More than 90% of the time, renal artery stenosis is caused by atherosclerosis, a process in which plaque made up of fats, cholesterol, and other materials builds up on the walls of the blood vessels, including those leading to the kidneys.
Renal artery stenosis is a decrease in blood flow through one or both of the main renal arteries or their branches. Renal artery occlusion is a complete blockage of blood flow through one or both of the main renal arteries or its branches. 
A. A. Renal artery stenosis is a narrowing of arteries that carry blood to one or both of the kidneys. Most often seen in older people with atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries), renal artery stenosis can worsen over time and often leads to hypertension (high blood pressure) and kidney damage. More than 90% of the time, renal artery stenosis is caused by atherosclerosis, a process in which plaque made up of fats, cholesterol, and other materials builds up on the walls of the blood vessels, including those leading to
In younger patients, the narrowing of the renal artery usually is due to the thickening of the artery (fibromuscular dysplasia) and it is more common in women than men. It is estimated that renal artery stenosis accounts for approximately 1% of mild to moderate cases of high blood pressure. The majority of renal artery stenosis is caused by atherosclerosis (hardening and narrowing of blood vessel wall from the inside) similar to the process that occurs in blood vessels in the heart and other parts of the body.