Medicaid is a jointly funded state-federal program that pays for health care services delivered primarily to low-income families and children, pregnant women, the elderly and persons with disabilities. In Texas, Medicaid is administered by the Texas Health and Human Services Commission (HHSC).
Unlike Medicare, which is solely a federal program, Medicaid is a joint federal-state program. Each state operates its own Medicaid system, but this system must conform to federal guidelines in order for the state to receive matching funds and grants.
Medicaid is a joint federal-state health care program, primarily for the poor. At the federal level, Medicaid is an entitlement, implying that each enrollee has a right to benefits, regardless of the state in which he or she resides. However, federal funds are not distributed equally.
Like Medicaid, CHIP is funded with both state and federal funds. CHIP covers health care services for children from low-income families earning up to 200 percent of FPL that are not covered by Medicaid. The federal match rate for CHIP is higher than for Medicaid, generally with an FMAP of 72 percent.
The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), a branch of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) , is the federal agency that runs the Medicare Program and monitors Medicaid programs offered by each state. In 2011, Medicare covered 48.7 million people. Total expenditures in 2011 were $549.1 billion.
by Pamela Villarreal. Medicaid is a joint federal-state health care program, primarily for the poor. At the federal level, Medicaid is an entitlement, implying that each enrollee has a right to benefits, regardless of the state in which he or she resides. However, federal funds are not distributed equally.
Medicaid is a joint federal-state program that provides health coverage or nursing home coverage to certain categories of low-asset people, including children, pregnant women, parents of eligible children, people with disabilities and elderly needing nursing home care.
Medicaid. Medicaid is a joint federal and state program that helps with medical costs for some people with limited income and resources. Medicaid also offers benefits not normally covered by Medicare, like nursing home care and personal care services.