Typhoid fever is contracted by drinking or eating the bacteria in contaminated food or water. People with acute illness can contaminate the surrounding water supply through stool, which contains a high concentration of the bacteria. Contamination of the water supply can, in turn, taint the food supply. Others suffer a very mild illness that goes unrecognized. These people may become long-term carriers of the bacteria -- even though they have no symptoms -- and be the source of new outbreaks of typhoid fever for many years.
Typhoid fever is caused by virulent bacteria called Salmonella typhi (S. typhi). Although they're related, S. typhi and the bacteria responsible for salmonellosis, another serious intestinal infection, aren't the same. 
Typhoid fever (also known as Enteric fever) is caused by a strain of Salmonella bacteria (Salmonellae typhi) when they are spread through the body by the white blood cells t … hat attempted to destroy them.   Salmonella are ingested from contaminated food or water and enter the body through the intestinal tract. Relative bradycardia (less tachycardia than expected for the degree of fever) may occur in up to 50% of patients but is not a reliable diagnostic indicator. Faintly erythematous maculopapules or rose spots occur on the trunk and may become hemorrhagic.
The incidence of typhoid fever in the United States has markedly decreased since the early 1900s, when tens of thousands of cases were reported in the U.S. Today, less than 400 cases are reported annually in the United States, mostly in people who have recently traveled to Mexico and South America. Others suffer a very mild illness that goes unrecognized. These people may become long-term carriers of the bacteria -- even though they have no symptoms -- and be the source of new outbreaks of typhoid fever for many years.
Infections. Untreated typhoid fever can cause inflammation of heart muscles, which may lead to heart problems in the long term, according to MayoClinic.com. Typhoid can also cause an infection in the membranes and fluid surrounding the brain and spinal cord, leading to a fatal nervous system disease known as meningitis. Typhoid is contracted through consumption of food and water that has been contaminated with Salmonella typhi. According to MedlinePlus, typhoid occurs less frequently in the U.S and is more common in developing countries such as Africa, Asia and Latin America. Untreated typhoid may lead to several long-term effects.
Typhoid can be fatal if left untreated. Typhoid can cause high fever, muscle aches, severe headache, weakness, confusion or agitation, loss of appetite, stomach pain, diarrhea or constipation, and rose-colored spots on the skin. Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat. Less serious side effects include: 1  low fever; 2  headache; 3  nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, stomach pain; or. 4  mild skin rash.
Save. Typhoid fever is caused by a resistant bacterium called Salmonella typhi. Because the bacteria is primarily passed through fecal matter, typhoid fever is more common in developing nations with poor water treatment and open sewage. Some of the earliest indications that you may have typhoid fever are if you experience a high fever (up to 104 degrees F) along with weakness, headache, sore throat, stomach pain and diarrhea or constipation. A rash may appear on the trunk that typically resolves within 5 days. Creatas Images/Creatas/Getty Images.
Complications of typhoid fever. Complications caused by typhoid fever usually only occur in people who haven't been treated with appropriate antibiotics or who weren't treated straight away. In such cases, about 1 in 10 people experience complications, which usually develop during the third week of infection
About 3%-5% of people become carriers of the bacteria after the acute illness. Others suffer a very mild illness that goes unrecognized. These people may become long-term carriers of the bacteria -- even though they have no symptoms -- and be the source of new outbreaks of typhoid fever for many years.
Background. Typhoid fever, also known as enteric fever, is a potentially fatal multisystemic illness caused primarily by Salmonella enterica, subspecies enterica serovar typhi and, to a lesser extent, related serovars paratyphi A, B, and C. The protean manifestations of typhoid fever make this disease a true diagnostic challenge. International. Typhoid fever occurs worldwide, primarily in developing nations whose sanitary conditions are poor. Typhoid fever is endemic in Asia, Africa, Latin America, the Caribbean, and Oceania, but 80% of cases come from Bangladesh, China, India, Indonesia, Laos, Nepal, Pakistan, or Vietnam.