The airport has three concourses (A, B, and C), which are all connected by train to the terminal. United Airlines and its subsidiary of United Express take up the majority of gates for Concourse B, leaving other airlines to fly in and out of A and C. All international flights depart from Concourse A. Airlines: Denver International Airport serves as a hub for both United Airlines and Frontier Airlines. A total of 16 airlines fly in and out of Denver. The airport is located 24 miles northeast of downtown Denver, which causes locals to joke that the airport is actually in Kansas. DIA replaced Denver's Stapleton International Airport, which is now home to the Stapleton neighborhood. In 2014, the airport was ranked as the 5th-busiest airport in the U.S.
The airport is in northeastern Denver and is operated by the City & County of Denver Department of Aviation. DIA was voted Best Airport in North America by readers of Business Traveler Magazine six years in a row (2005–2010) and was named America's Best Run Airport by Time Magazine in 2002. At 34,000 acres (140 km 2) , DIA is by far the largest land area commercial airport in the United States. Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport is a distant second at 78 square kilometres (30 sq mi). The 327-foot (100 m) control tower is one of the tallest in North America.
Upon arrival to the airport, DIA is divided into East and West Terminal entrances and A, B, and C concourses off the main terminal itself. Denver International Airport's C Concourse (credit: CBS). Artworks such as “Dual Meridian” sculpture by David Griggs and “Patterns and Figures” by Barb McKee and Darrell Anderson can be seen in the A concourse alongside the rotating exhibitions curated by DIA’s own art director.
As of 2014, DIA was the 18th-busiest airport in the world and the 6th busiest in the United States by passenger traffic with over 53 million passengers. It also has the third largest domestic network. DIA has non-stop service to destinations throughout North America, Latin America, Europe and Asia. At 34,000 acres (140 km 2) , DIA is by far the largest land area commercial airport in the United States. Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport is a distant second at 78 square kilometres (30 sq mi). The 327-foot (100 m) control tower is one of the tallest in North America.
Denver International Airport Terminal Information. Introduction. The smooth and efficient flow of passengers through Denver International Airport is facilitated by the use of elevators, escalators, moving walkways, and an underground train. The Jeppesen Terminal is divided into east and west sides. If your plane gate is on Concourse A, you may take the train or walk across the pedestrian bridge linking the concourse to the terminal. On arrival at the concourse, take an escalator or elevator to the concourse level and follow the signs to your gate.
Denver International Airport (DIA) is located in the north-east of Denver, Colorado. The most interesting feature of the DIA-Denver Airport a visitor notes is the unique design. It looks like white tents set up – it actually seeks to represent the snow-capped rocky mountains. Some of the airlines operating from here include Aeromexico, Air Canada, British Airways, Continental, JetBlue, Frontier Airlines, Lufthansa etc. Concourses B at DIA airport – Concourses B and C are connected to the terminals only by the train system.
The Pedestrian Bridge connecting DIA's Jeppesen Terminal with Concourse A. Concourse A is the only concourse at DIA that is accessible without having to board an underground train. A typical Frontier Airlines gate in Concourse A (Gate A31) at Denver International Airport. 
On December 14, 2006, DIA instituted the design phase of expanding Concourse C in the airport's first major expansion of a concourse. In September 2014, the airport completed construction of five new gates on the C Concourse, which now serve Southwest Airlines. At 34,000 acres (140 km 2) , DIA is by far the largest land area commercial airport in the United States. Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport is a distant second at 78 square kilometres (30 sq mi). The 327-foot (100 m) control tower is one of the tallest in North America.
DIA serves over 170 destinations including 20 international cities in seven countries. DIA is the largest hub of Frontier Airlines and the fourth-largest hub for United Airlines. Southwest Airlines continues to grow rapidly at the airport and the airport is the airline's fourth largest base. At 34,000 acres (140 km 2) , DIA is by far the largest land area commercial airport in the United States. Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport is a distant second at 78 square kilometres (30 sq mi). The 327-foot (100 m) control tower is one of the tallest in North America.