When using ovens with both fan-forced and conventional settings, it is best to use conventional when you are baking long and slow (like for cakes) and fan-forced for fast cooking at high temperatures. If using a fan-forced oven, as a general rule, drop the temperature by 20°C to imitate conventional. 
This is based on a chicken of about 2 kg. Cook in a fan oven at 180° for 50 to 55 minutes per kg and measure the temperature in the middle of the breast. If it's stuffed, take out when the temperature is 82°. Otherwise take it out when the temperature is 88°. The time should be pretty much the same. Rack of lamb. Cook to 55° in a 200° fan-forced oven, about 30 minutes. I'm pretty sure that 63° is the right temperature, but last time I tried it was with a deboned leg in a net, and I suspect I put the temperature probe into an air pocket: at any rate, it took nearly two hours and was overcooked.
Preheat oven to 220°C/200°C fan-forced. Heat 1 tablespoon oil in a large frying pan over medium-high heat. Cook chicken, in 2 batches, for 2 to 3 minutes each side or until browned and cooked through. 
Place in an oiled baking tray, breast-side up. Roast for 15 minutes. Turn the heat down to 160C (again, fan-forced) and roast for a further 45 minutes to an hour, basting with the pan juices every 20 minutes. Remove the chicken from the oven once cooked. Rest it in a draught free place for 15 to 20 minutes, uncovered. Use this time to make the gravy
#2 Escapin. Posted. if you can cook them on a rack over a baking dish you'll get better results. I reckon 190 degrees for 10-15 minutes (you'll need to check, as it depends how thick they are). Also, if you don't mind adding a little extra fat, you can spray them with non-stick cooking spray to get them a bit more crunchy.
1 The ideal temperature to fry schnitzel is around 375 degrees F. 2  When the oil is hot (but not smoking or splattering), fry the coated breasts in single-layer batches until they are golden brown on both sides. 3  If your oil is at the right temperature, it should take about 3-4 minutes per side. 