A holding company is a corporation that owns shares in another company. It is typically positioned between the operating company and the individual shareholder, and it owns the operating company’s voting stock and assets, and controls its management and policies. It doesn’t usually produce goods or services itself.
By using a holding company, profits can be extracted from your operating business (as dividends), usually on a tax deferred basis. So if you operate a business that has the risk of being sued one day, holding companies can be used to reduce your litigation exposure.
Using holding and operating companies is an asset protection planning strategy that helps to limit liability risks in your business structure. An ideal business structure consists of an operating entity that does not own any vulnerable assets and a holding entity that actually owns the business's assets.
One benefit of forming a holding company is that the holding company itself is protected from the losses. If one of their companies goes bankrupt, the holding company experiences a capital loss and a decline in net worth, but the bankrupt company’s debtors and creditors can’t pursue the holding company for remuneration.
Holding companies can be used to reduce tax as well as provide important non-tax related benefits. While each situation may be different, as your company’s annual revenues and income increase, a holding company is likely something you should consider.
A holding company is a company that owns shares in another company. If the holding company owns the majority of shares of another company, it is also referred to as a parent company. It generally does not produce goods or services itself. The sole purpose of a holding company is usually to own
Effective Use of the Operating Entity. When using holding and operating companies in a multiple-entity business structure, your operating entity is your primary business entity. All business functions occur within that company. Likewise, all of the risks to the business will occur within that entity as well.