Cinnamon is a spice that comes from the bark of a tree native to Southern Asia. Although it is primarily known in the United States as a spice for pumpkin pie, oatmeal and cookies, this herb also offers healing benefits. Cinnamon bark can be used to make a spicy, fragrant tea to treat several conditions. The eugenol in cinnamon tea acts as a natural anesthetic, according to Castleman, and help to relieve abdominal cramps, pain from wounds and rashes and joint pain caused by arthritis and fibromyalgia. Cinnamon tea also helps reduce pain related to toothaches and gum disease.
Something called Hot Cinnamon Spice is not a tea that I would ever think to pick up but I kept hearing how good this one was so I bought a tea sampler pack that included it. I couldn't believe how delicious it was. Hot Cinnamon Spice. Our most popular flavored tea, this is an assertive blend of black teas, three types of cinnamon, orange peel, and sweet cloves (no sugar added).
Learn more about potential cinnamon tea risks on our Cinnamon Side Effects page. 1  Reduce swelling and the aches and pains of arthritis and rheumatism with a soothing cup of cinnamon tea. 2  Cinnamon tea's reputation as a weight-loss tea is growing-with good reason. The Benefits of Cinnamon Tea go far beyond Its Soothing, Exotic Taste! You can enjoy the many benefits of cinnamon tea whether you love a pure cinnamon tea or prefer it blended or added to other teas.
Harney's Hot Cinnamon Spice is a flavorful tea that will satisfy any lover of cinnamon and spice. It's deliciously sweet so you need not add any sugar. I agree with the other reviewer that said it's like liquid red hots. Definitely give this a taste. Hot Cinnamon Spice. Our most popular flavored tea, this is an assertive blend of black teas, three types of cinnamon, orange peel, and sweet cloves (no sugar added).
Sweet, soothing, spicy, and a little bit exotic... Cinnamon is versatile and much-loved, a favorite not only in sweet and savory dishes, but in tea, as well! The well-known spice is famous for its ease in blending with a variety of flavors-with other teas, spices, fruits, and herbs-to create intoxicating tea blends. Cinnamon tea is chock full of good things-for your body, your mind, and even for romance! The Benefits of Cinnamon Tea go far beyond Its Soothing, Exotic Taste! You can enjoy the many benefits of cinnamon tea whether you love a pure cinnamon tea or prefer it blended or added to other teas.
1 Cinnamon is filled with potent antioxidants-more than almost all other spices and herbs. 2  Cinnamon's antioxidant levels are comparable with other high-antioxidant foods, as well-for example, just one teaspoon of ground cinnamon has as many antioxidants as 1/2 cup of blueberries! The Benefits of Cinnamon Tea go far beyond Its Soothing, Exotic Taste! You can enjoy the many benefits of cinnamon tea whether you love a pure cinnamon tea or prefer it blended or added to other teas.
Harney & Sons Hot Cinnamon Spice Tea is the best Cinnamon tea there is -- I have tried them all and this one is clearly the most robust cinnamon flavored tea ever! I have to buy it in bulk because I love it so much! Hot Cinnamon Spice. Our most popular flavored tea, this is an assertive blend of black teas, three types of cinnamon, orange peel, and sweet cloves (no sugar added).
In this coffee liqueur recipe, it is used to rim the glass. Marko Goodwin. Definition: Cinnamon is a spice that can be purchased in its ground / powdered form or in the form of sticks (or 'quills'). Cinnamon has a fascinating history, which includes its role in war, its use as currency and its use as an aphrodisiac. 
Herbal Hot Cinnamon is a good choice for those who want give up caffeine, but not strong flavors! Yes, Herbal Hot Cinnamon Spice Tea might be just the choice for a cold winter's night. People sometimes think we add sugar or sweeteners to this tea, BUT WE DO NOT. The sweetness comes from the cinnamon. Please enjoy this tea! Another new version of our most popular tea, this version is caffeine free. Ok, so I love, love, love the Hot Cinnamon Spice tea so I decided that maybe I was having a bit too much caffeine and it was time to try both the herbal and decaf. For the herbal, it tastes quite similar; it is not exactly the same, though. I get that same taste of red hots in a nice warm mug, but Rooibos is the bas