Chronic internal organ pain: Introduction. Chronic internal organ pain: continuous deep seated pain. See detailed information below for a list of 28 causes of Chronic internal organ pain, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. Review causes of more specific types of Chronic internal organ pain: 1  Mild Chronic internal organ pain (11 causes). 2  Severe Chronic internal organ pain (18 causes). 3  Recurring Chronic internal organ pain (14 causes). 4  Intermittent Chronic internal organ pain (10 causes).
Visceral pain is pain that results from the activation of nociceptors of the thoracic, pelvic, or abdominal viscera (organs). Visceral structures are highly sensitive to distension (stretch), ischemia and inflammation, but relatively insensitive to other stimuli that normally evoke pain such as cutting or burning. As visceral pain changes in nature as it progresses. Pain from a specific organ can be experienced, or “referred” to different sites of the body. There is no pathology or no cause for pain at these referred somatic sites however the pain will be experienced at this location, often with significant intensity.
Left side abdominal pain can be caused both by organs and structures on the left section of the abdomen as well as those located away from the abdomen. Females are more likely to suffer from pain on left side of abdomen simply because they have more organs in this area. 5. Kidney stones in the left side of the abdomen can cause the strongest pain ever felt. It can also cause vomiting as well as a spreading of the pain from the loin to the groin. When there is a buildup of minerals a stone can form down the kidney or in the ureter.
Most cancer pain is caused by the tumour pressing on bones, nerves or other organs in your body. Sometimes pain is related to your cancer treatment. For example, some chemotherapy drugs can cause numbness and tingling in your hands and feet or a burning sensation at the place where they are injected. Soft tissue pain. Soft tissue pain means pain from a body organ or muscle. For example, you may have pain in your back caused by tissue damage to the kidney. You can't always pinpoint this pain, but it is usually described as sharp, cramping, aching, or throbbing.
Pain arising from other organs may be felt in the back. This is called referred pain. Many intra-abdominal disorders-such as appendicitis, aneurysms, kidney diseases, bladder infections, pelvic infections and ovarian disorders, amongst others-can cause pain referred to the back. 1 Other skeletal causes of lower back pain include osteomyelitis, sacroiliitis, and osteoporosis vertebral fractures. 2  This pain is often worse at night and when sitting or standing for a long time. 3  Tumours, possibly cancerous, can be a source of skeletal pain in the back.
Organs of the abdomen include the stomach, small intestine, colon, liver, gallbladder, spleen, and pancreas. Abdominal pain can range in intensity from a mild stomach ache to severe acute pain. The pain is often nonspecific and can be caused by a variety of conditions. 
Often, left lower quadrant pain is related to conditions of the digestive tract; however, it can also be related to conditions of the body wall, skin, blood vessels, urinary tract, or reproductive organs. Left lower quadrant pain may be caused by conditions of the digestive tract including: Bacterial, parasitic or viral infection of the gastrointestinal tract. Celiac disease (severe sensitivity to gluten from wheat and other grains that causes intestinal damage). Chronic constipation.