Synonyms and Antonyms of AGRICULTURIST. Synonyms agriculturist (or agriculturalist), agronomist, cultivator, grower, planter, tiller. 
Wiktionary (3.00 / 1 vote) Rate this definition: agriculture (Noun). The art or science of cultivating the ground, including the harvesting of crops, and the rearing and management of livestock; tillage; husbandry; farming. Origin: From agricultura, from ager, field + cultura, cultivation. See acre, and culture. Agriculture. Agriculture, also called farming or husbandry, is the cultivation of animals, plants, fungi, and other life forms for food, fiber, biofuel, drugs and other products used to sustain and enhance human life.
Nearby & related entries: 1  agricultural science. 2  agricultural shot. 3  agricultural subsidy. 4  agricultural surplus. 5  agricultural workers' diseases. 6  agriculturalize. 7  agriculturally. 8  agriculture. 9  agriculture department. 10  agriculture in the russian empire. 
The noun AGRICULTURIST has 1 sense: 1. someone concerned with the science or art or business of cultivating the soil. Familiarity information: AGRICULTURIST used as a noun is very rare. 
Full Definition of AGRICULTURE. : the science, art, or practice of cultivating the soil, producing crops, and raising livestock and in varying degrees the preparation and marketing of the resulting products. — ag·ri·cul·tur·ist \ˌa-gri-ˈkəl-ch(ə-)rist\ or ag·ri·cul·tur·al·ist \-ch(ə-)rə-list\ noun.
Urban agriculture or urban farming is the practice of cultivating, processing, and distributing food in or around a village, town, or city. Urban agriculture can also involve animal husbandry, aquaculture, agroforestry, Urban beekeeping, and horticulture. These activities occur in peri-urban areas as well. Urban agriculture can reflect varying levels of economic and social development. In the global north, it often takes the form of a social movement for sustainable communities, where organic growers, ‘foodies,’ and ‘ locavores ’ form social networks founded on a shared ethos of nature and community holism.
The word agriculture is a late Middle English adaptation of Latin agricultūra, from ager, field, and cultūra,  cultivation  or growing. Agriculture usually refers to human activities, although it is also observed in certain species of ant, termite and ambrosia beetle. Until the Industrial Revolution, the vast majority of the human population labored in agriculture. Pre-industrial agriculture was typically subsistence agriculture / self-sufficiency in which farmers raised most of their crops for their own consumption instead of cash crops for trade.
Agriculture. See also plants; soil. agriculture. the art and science of farming. Also called tillage. — agriculturist, agriculturalist, n. — agricultural, adj. agrogeology. the branch of geology concerned with the adaptability of land to agriculture, soil quality, etc. — agrogeologist, n. `After all, the sanitation and the agriculture of to-day are still in the rudimentary stage.
Diseases come on horseback, but steal away on foot. (English proverb). Patience is bitter, but it has a sweet fruit. (Afghanistan proverb). For the sake of the flowers, the weeds are watered. (Arabic proverb). God's mills mill slowly, but surely.. 
1. agriculturalist-someone concerned with the science or art or business of cultivating the soil. agriculturist, cultivator, grower, raiser. farmer, granger, husbandman, sodbuster-a person who operates a farm. fruit grower-someone who grows fruit commercially. 