Syphilis is a sexually transmitted infection caused by the spirochete bacterium Treponema pallidum subspecies pallidum. Latent syphilis is defined as having serologic proof of infection without symptoms of disease. It is further described as either early (less than 1 year after secondary syphilis) or late (more than 1 year after secondary syphilis) in the United States.
Causes and Risk Factors. Syphilis is caused by the bacterium Treponema pallidum. Syphilis is passed from one person to another through contact with a syphilis sore. The sores are usually painless and can go unnoticed. Sores can be found on the external genitals, vagina, penis or in the anus. 3. Late or Latent Stage. In this stage, syphilis typically has no symptoms at all. If left untreated a person can remain in this stage of the condition for the rest of his or her life, or the disease can progress to the next stage.
Syphilis: Introduction. Syphilis is one type of sexually transmitted disease. Syphilis is the result of a bacterial infection of the genital tract by the bacterium Treponema pallidum. Syphilis is passed from one person another during direct sexual contact with a syphilis lesion that involves vaginal, oral, or anal sex. There are three stages of syphilis, and each stage of syphilis has distinct symptoms. The first stage (primary syphilis) is characterized by the development of a painless lesion called a chancre. The chancre usually develops in the genital area.
Other human diseases caused by related Treponema pallidum include yaws (subspecies pertenue), pinta (subspecies carateum), and bejel (subspecies endemicum). The signs and symptoms of syphilis vary depending in which of the four stages it presents (primary, secondary, latent, and tertiary). Latent syphilis is defined as having serologic proof of infection without symptoms of disease. It is further described as either early (less than 1 year after secondary syphilis) or late (more than 1 year after secondary syphilis) in the United States.
Syphilis is transmitted from person to person by direct contact with a syphilitic sore, known as a chancre. Chancres occur mainly on the external genitals, vagina, anus, or in the rectum. Chancres also can occur on the lips and in the mouth. Transmission of syphilis occurs during vaginal, anal, or oral sex. Skin rashes and/or mucous membrane lesions (sores in the mouth, vagina, or anus) mark the second stage of symptoms. This stage typically starts with the development of a rash on one or more areas of the body.
Syphilis Definition. Syphilis is a dangerous infectious disease, notifiable, highly contagious, which is present worldwide. The pathogen (the bacterium Treponema pallidum) is transmitted through bodily contact directly (usually by sexual intercourse). Syphilis is a disease known for centuries. 
You can get syphilis by direct contact with a syphilis sore during vaginal, anal, or oral sex. Sores can be found on the penis, vagina, anus, in the rectum, or on the lips and in the mouth. Syphilis can also be spread from an infected mother to her unborn baby. Syphilis is an STD that can cause long-term complications if not treated correctly. Symptoms in adults are divided into stages. These stages are primary, secondary, latent, and late syphilis.
Syphilis is a highly contagious disease spread primarily by sexual activity, including oral and anal sex. Occasionally, the disease can be passed to another person through prolonged kissing or close bodily contact. Although this disease is spread from sores, the vast majority of those sores go unrecognized. Secondary stage rash on the palms of the hands. The secondary stage may last one to three months and begins within six weeks to six months after exposure. People with secondary syphilis experience a rosy copper penny rash typically on the palms of the hands and soles of the feet.
Latent syphilis is a phase of the disease characterized by relative absence of external symptoms. The term latent does not mean that the disease is not progressing or that the patient cannot infect others. For example, pregnant women can transmit syphilis to their unborn children during the latency period. Chancres may still be present but are usually healing. Secondary syphilis is a systemic infection marked by the eruption of skin rashes and ulcers in the mucous membranes. The skin rash may mimic a number of other skin disorders such as drug reactions, rubella, ringworm, mononucleosis, and pityriasis rosea.
Syphilis is caused by a spirochete, Treponema pallidum. A spirochete is a thin spiralor coil-shaped bacterium that enters the body through the mucous membranes or breaks in the skin. In 90% of cases, the spirochete is transmitted by sexual contact. Chancres may still be present but are usually healing. Secondary syphilis is a systemic infection marked by the eruption of skin rashes and ulcers in the mucous membranes. The skin rash may mimic a number of other skin disorders such as drug reactions, rubella, ringworm, mononucleosis, and pityriasis rosea.