Example: A salaried employee is paid $20,000 a year. This salary is divided by the number of pay periods in the year to determine the salary for each pay period. If salaried employees are paid monthly, this employee would receive $1666.67 a month. Example: An hourly employee is paid $9.62 an hour. To find this employee's pay amount, the hourly rate is multiplied by the number of hours worked in a pay period. For calculation purposes, a salaried employee is determined to work 2080 hours a year (52 weeks times 40 hours a week). The terms salaried and hourly refer to how employees get paid. A salaried employee is paid based on an annual amount, called a salary. This salary is divided between the pay periods (as determined by the company) for the year, and based on a 2080-hour year.
Step 5. Recalculate the employee's wages and inform payroll of the change from exempt to nonexempt. As of May 2012, the federal minimum wage is $7.25 per hour. Employees in salary exempt positions are required to have a weekly salary of at least $455. Calculate the employee's new hourly rate based on job duties, experience and qualifications.
Since salaried employees earn a specified annual amount, it is likely that their gross pay for each pay period is the same recurring amount. For example, if a manager's salary is $48,000 per year and salaries are paid semi-monthly, the manager's gross pay will be $2,000 for each of the 24 pay periods. Overtime Premium. An overtime premium refers to the half portion of time-and-a-half or time-and-one-half overtime pay. For example, assume an employee in the production department is expected to work 40 hours per week at $10 per hour.
Example: A non-exempt employee is paid a salary of $500 per week, and works 50 hours in a given week. Since the agreement is just that the employee will be paid a $500 salary, that sum would cover any number of hours worked. The regular rate for this week is the salary ($500) divided by the 50 hours worked, or $10.00. To pay overtime, the employer would divide the regular rate in half ($10.00 divided by 2, or $5.00), and then multiply that result by the 10 overtime hours. The overtime due for this week would be $50.
To calculate the hourly wage for a salary employee: 2080 is the total available hours for a full-time (40 hours/week). If the employee does not work 40 hours/week, calculate the number of hours the employee works per week, and multiply by 52. i.e., # of hours/week x 52 = total available annually. 1  Salary amount x pay frequency = annual salary.
If the employer requires the employee to work 42 hours in a given week, the extra two hours are paid at time-and-a-half and the employee earns a total of $430 for the week (40 hours x $10 per hour, plus 2 overtime hours x $15 per hour). Overtime Premium. An overtime premium refers to the half portion of time-and-a-half or time-and-one-half overtime pay. For example, assume an employee in the production department is expected to work 40 hours per week at $10 per hour.
The pay for these employees is generally stated as a gross, hourly rate, such as $13.52 per hour.. Again, the gross amount refers to the pay an employee would receive before withholdings are made for such things as taxes, contributions, and savings plans. Employees receiving wages are often paid weekly or biweekly. Overtime Premium. An overtime premium refers to the half portion of time-and-a-half or time-and-one-half overtime pay. For example, assume an employee in the production department is expected to work 40 hours per week at $10 per hour.
By Alison Doyle. An employee who is paid on a salary basis is paid a flat amount (i.e. $50,000 a year) rather than an hourly wage. Many salaried employees are exempt from overtime pay requirements. Salaried employees are paid their salary regardless of how many hours they work during a workweek.This means that many high paying positions do not receive extra wages such as time and one-half for working over 40 hours a week