The administration cost of processing the Disclosure application is met by the employer, either in their own staff time if they are a Registered Body, or through the fees charged, if they use a Registered Umbrella Organisation. 1  What exactly is Atlantic Data Ltd. and how does it operate? 2  What is an umbrella body? 3  How can I register to use this 4  ... W 
How long does it take to get a Disclosure? Disclosure Scotland has a Service Level Agreement to produce 90% of Disclosures within 14 calendar days (although this will be considerably longer for international Disclosures). This is measured from the day they receive the application to the day of despatch. All disclosures must be seen by the STEER Co-ordinator or their representative so that the reference number can be recorded as evidence of the disclosure check being completed. The current fee for a basic disclosure is £25 (payable to Disclosure Scotland) and must be paid before the disclosure check can be undertaken.
In aviation, a criminal record check (basic disclosure) certificate needs to be renewed at the same time as the airport identification card is renewed. It is up to airport managers to decide how long permanent airport identification cards are valid for, but this cannot be longer than 5 years. If an overseas criminal record certificate is more that 10 weeks old but that person has not returned to that country since the date of issue (the date of issue can be up to 10 weeks prior to their date of departure) then that certificate will be deemed valid.
Disclosure Scotland works within a Service Level Agreement to produce 90% of all types of Disclosure, for a correctly completed application with no further enquiries, within 14 calendar days. This is measured from the day we receive the application to the day of dispatch. Legislation has come into force that changes the content of higher level disclosures (that is, the Standard disclosure, the Enhanced disclosure and the PVG scheme record). The law relating to what conviction information an individual has to self-disclose to employers has also changed.
The Department for Transport (. ) advises that disclosure certificates including those issued overseas, can be considered valid for up to 10 weeks from the date of issue. This does not include any period that. is considering an application for a certificate of disregard or subsequent appeal. If an overseas criminal record certificate is more that 10 weeks old but that person has not returned to that country since the date of issue (the date of issue can be up to 10 weeks prior to their date of departure) then that certificate will be deemed valid.
One hard-copy of the Basic Disclosure Certificate is produced and we post that to your current home address (as provided on your application form), by Royal Mail Standard delivery (for UK applications) and by Royal Mail Airmail delivery (for non-UK applications). To complete your online Basic Disclosure Application, you will need to provide: note: Information that must be supplied is indicated with an asterisk(*). * 1  Name/s (including previous name/s and dates you used them).
Basic Disclosures You will need to obtain a basic disclosure for STEER (unless you have submitted a disclosure to Stirling University previously for your course of study, have a recent disclosure – dated within one month of STEER training or a member of the PVG scheme and can provide an update). All disclosures must be seen by the STEER Co-ordinator or their representative so that the reference number can be recorded as evidence of the disclosure check being completed. The current fee for a basic disclosure is £25 (payable to Disclosure Scotland) and must be paid before the disclosure check can be undertaken.
Each Disclosure contains the date the Disclosure was produced. The Disclosure is accurate as of this date and is valid for a period of 1 month. After receipt of your basic disclosure, you will then have 1 month to submit it to the STEER team. All disclosures must be seen by the STEER Co-ordinator or their representative so that the reference number can be recorded as evidence of the disclosure check being completed. The current fee for a basic disclosure is £25 (payable to Disclosure Scotland) and must be paid before the disclosure check can be undertaken.
Although the basic disclosure does not have a period of validity clearly it would be meaningless if obtained too far in advance of pass issue. Therefore basic disclosure certificates should not be dated more than 10 weeks before pass application. 2 Answers. 0. The disclosure contains information, which is valid only on the day of issue. Disclosures do not carry a pre-determined period of validity because a conviction or other matter could be recorded against the subject of the disclosure at any time after it is issued e.g. the following day.
In the case of STEER this can be undertaken before or after mentor/buddy training, however the cost of the disclosure will only be reimbursed by the University if training is completed and mentoring/buddying is undertaken. The individual volunteer applies to Disclosure Scotland for a Disclosure. All disclosures must be seen by the STEER Co-ordinator or their representative so that the reference number can be recorded as evidence of the disclosure check being completed. The current fee for a basic disclosure is £25 (payable to Disclosure Scotland) and must be paid before the disclosure check can be