Full Definition of ANATOMY. 1. : a branch of morphology that deals with the structure of organisms. 2. : a treatise on anatomical science or art. 3. : the art of separating the parts of an organism in order to ascertain their position, relations, structure, and function: dissection. 4. obsolete: a body dissected or to be dissected. 
In medicine, gross anatomy, also known as topographical anatomy or macro anatomy, refers to the study of the biological structures that may be seen with the naked eye. Gross anatomy may involve dissection or noninvasive methods; the aim is to acquire data about the larger structures of organs and organ systems. Human anatomy, including histology and gross human anatomy, is the study of the structures of the human body. Most health care related studies require some or extensive training in gross anatomy and histology.
Knowledge center. Anatomy is the identification and description of the structures of living things. Anatomy is a branch of biology and medicine which can be divided into three broad areas: human anatomy, zootomy (animal anatomy), and phytotomy (plant anatomy). The word anatomy comes from the Greek ana-meaning up, and tome-meaning a cutting. Human anatomy, including histology and gross human anatomy, is the study of the structures of the human body. Most health care related studies require some or extensive training in gross anatomy and histology.
In its broadest sense, anatomy is the study of the structure of an object, in this case the human body. Human anatomy deals with the way the parts of humans, from molecules to bones, interact to form a functional unit. The study of anatomy is distinct from the study of physiology, although the two are often paired. While anatomy deals with the structure of an organism, physiology deals with the way the parts function together. For example, an anatomist may study the types of cells in the cardiac conduction system and how those cells are connected, while a physiologist would look at why and how the heart beats
Anatomy is the area of biology that deals with the structure of plants and animals, usually on the scale of whole organisms and their major systems. Major divisions falling under the umbrella of anatomy include the visible structures and organs, the comparative study of related organisms, and growth and development. Functional anatomy is the study of organs, their roles in the body, and their place in the body's major systems. Comparative anatomy deals with the anatomical relationship between animals that share similar structures, such as mammals.
Macroscopic anatomy, or gross anatomy, is the examination of an animal’s body parts using unaided eyesight. Gross anatomy also includes the branch of superficial anatomy. In some of its facets, anatomy is related to embryology and comparative anatomy, which itself is closely related to evolutionary biology and phylogeny. Human anatomy is one of the basic essential sciences of medicine.
Anatomy is the branch of biology concerned with the study of the structure of organisms and their parts. In some of its facets, anatomy is related to embryology and comparative anatomy, which itself is closely related to evolutionary biology and phylogeny. Human anatomy is one of the basic essential sciences of medicine.
This subdiscipline of biology can be further categorized into the study of large scale anatomical structures (gross anatomy) and the study of microscopic anatomical structures (microscopic anatomy). Human anatomy deals with anatomical structures of the human body, including cells, tissues, organs, and organ systems. Anatomy is always linked to physiology, the study of how biological processes function in living organisms. 
Physiology and anatomy are the branches of biology. Physiology deals with the study of organs and organ systems. The organ systems in the human body are respiratory system, circulatory system, nervous system, cardiovascular system, skeletal system. Emphasis is laid on the functions carried out by the different systems. Anatomy studies the structure of a living body. Gross anatomy and microscopic anatomy are the branches of anatomy. Gross anatomy is also known as macroscopic anatomy. Gross anatomy focuses its study on structures which can be seen with the normal human eye where as microscopic anatomy studies the structures which are invisible to the human eye.