1 Negligible par value. 2  Since founder’s shares are usually issued at the time the company is incorporated, they essentially have no par value. 3  As the company builds value, shares allocated later for employees or partners will have an appropriate price. Even though the class is common stock, founders can negotiate special vesting and other terms as part of their stock restriction agreement upon venture investment. Here are some typical special terms for founder’s stock: 1 
Definition. Issued to the originators of a firm, these shares (stock) normally do not receive any return until dividend payable to common stock holders (ordinary share holders) is paid out. However, these shares are entitled to all of the remaining (after tax) profits, no matter how much. 
Founders' shares are shares held (or originally held) by the founders of a company. They may be golden shares, deferred shares, have other characteristics that distinguish them from ordinary shares. In some contexts founders' shares may simply mean ordinary shares held by the founders. Start-ups sometimes issue founders' shares that may be repurchased by the company if the founder fails to remain actively involved in the company for a specific time. In some cases the number of shares the founder may retain is proportionate to their period working for the company.
Companies that do not exist cannot issue shares of stock. Founders’ stock means the shares of common stock that are issued in the organizational minutes or consent of the board of directors of the company when they are setting up the new business, adopting bylaws and appointing officers. You will not find the terms “founder” or “founders’ stock” defined in the corporations code. “Founders” of companies fall into the class of initial stockholder, director (probably) and officer (probably).
Whether “Founder’s Stock” has any rights different from other equity interests in a company depends on the agreements entered into between the Founder and the company, either at the time the stock is issued or later. These rights may include: Under a typical vesting schedule, the stock vests in increments in monthly or quarterly increments over four years; if the Founder leaves the company before the stock is fully vested, the company has the right to buy back the unvested shares at the lower of cost or the then fair market value.
Companies that do not exist cannot issue founders stock. Founders stock means the shares of common stock stock that are issued in the organizational minutes or consent of the board of directors of the company when they are setting up the new business, adopting bylaws and appointing officers. This is called “organizing” the corporation. 
However, many times vesting of founders’ shares will follow a different schedule to that of typical startup employees. First, most founder vesting is not subject to the one year cliff because founders usually have a history working with each other, and know and trust each other. In addition, most founders will start vesting of their shares from the date they actually started providing services to the company. 
1 Vesting starts now. 2  Most founder vesting is not subject to the one year cliff because founders should already know and trust each other. 3  Thus, most founders will start vesting their shares from the date they actually started providing services to the company. 4  Acceleration clause. Even though the class is common stock, founders can negotiate special vesting and other terms as part of their stock restriction agreement upon venture investment. Here are some typical special terms for founder’s stock: 1  Negligible par value.
A founder share buyback agreement is like vesting for stock options. Based upon some defined schedule and conditions, the company has the right to buyback some, or all, of your shares. Founder Share Buyback Agreement. The most frequently used method to address equitable division of the equity among founders, particularly if not addressed at the founding of the company, is to make the founders shares subject to buyback by the company. Before I discuss the mechanics, let me clarify what this means.
The term “founder” and “founders’ stock” are not legal terms, rather, they are terms of art describing a certain class of early participants of a company and their ownership interests. You will not find the terms “founder” or “founders’ stock” defined in the corporations code. “Founders” of companies fall into the class of initial stockholder, director (probably) and officer (probably).