*Three types of the bacteria that cause brucellosis – Brucella abortus, Brucella melitensis and Brucella suis – are designated as select agents. This means that they have the potential to be developed as bioterrorism agents due to their ability to undergo aerosolization. 
Brucellosis. December 7,2007 Microbe Wiki to find other sources under Brucella abortus http://microbewiki.kenyon.edu/index.php/Brucella_abortus. Brucella abortus ATCC #17385, is a bacteria that causes disease in cattle but has been suppressed over the last few decades in the United States. B.abortus and other strains of Brucella cause a disease known as brucellosis, which usually affects cows, sheep, goats, pigs, and dogs. If an animal attracts this disease it can be transferred to humans by way of fluids and drinking unpasteurized milk, giving it the name zoonotic
Three species of Brucella cause the most concern: B. abortus, principally affecting cattle, bison and cervids; B. suis, principally affecting swine and reindeer but also cattle and bison; and B. melitensis, principally affecting goats but not present in the United States. 
Brucellosis is a classic bacterial zoonosis. Common Brucella species that are pathogenic in humans and their usual animal reservoirs include B. melitensis in sheep and goats, B. abortus in cattle, and B. suis in swine. Public Health Consequences of a False-Positive Laboratory Test Result for Brucella --- Florida, Georgia, and Michigan, 2005. Human brucellosis, a nationally notifiable disease, is uncommon in the United States.
Three species of Brucella affect humans: B. melitensis, B. abortus and B. suis (other species can cause infection in humans, but only rarely). Of these three species, infections by B. melitensis are the most common in humans and are also the most serious (55). 
Brucella abortus Rachel Wille Brucella abortus ATCC #17385, is a bacteria that causes disease in cattle but has been suppressed over the last few decades in the United States. B.abortus and other strains of Brucella cause a disease known as brucellosis, which usually affects cows, sheep, goats, pigs, and dogs. If an animal attracts this disease it can be transferred to humans by way of fluids and drinking unpasteurized milk, giving it the name zoonotic. December 7,2007 Microbe Wiki to find other sources under Brucella abortus http://microbewiki.kenyon.edu/index.php/Brucella_abortus.