1 Divergent boundaries -- where new crust is generated as the plates pull away from each other. 2  Convergent boundaries -- where crust is destroyed as one plate dives under another. 3  Transform boundaries -- where crust is neither produced nor destroyed as the plates slide horizontally past
continental=on land. here is a good example of plate tectonics, i just had to explain all that stuff. Subduction is when converging plates come together. they make a trench by one plate sliding under the other and into the mantle.
Magma rises into and through the other plate, solidifying into new crust. Magma formed from melting plates solidifies into granite, a light colored, low-density rock that makes up the continents. Thus at convergent boundaries, continental crust, made of granite, is created, and oceanic crust is destroyed.
The movement of the plates creates three types of tectonic boundaries: convergent, where plates move into one another; divergent, where plates move apart; and transform, where plates move sideways in relation to each other. Convergent Boundaries.
The lithospheric plates rest on top of the solid, but plastic, lower Mantle or Asthenosphere. Scientists believe that convection currents in the Asthenosphere, due to the Earth s escaping heat, provide the driving force of Plate movement. There are three types of Plate movement Convergence, Divergence, and Transform. Convergence occurs when two plates move towards each other.
Plate tectonics is the geologic theory that Earth's crust is made up of rigid plates that float on the surface of the planet. Tectonics comes from the Greek word meaning builder..
Plate Tectonics is the study of mechanisms and the results of  large-scale movement of the earth's crust.    Tectonic Plates … are large sections of the earth's crust that float  on top of semi-molten rocks of the upper mantle.
In the theory of plate tectonics, the earth's crust is broken into plates that move around relative to each other. As a result of this movement, three types of plate boundaries are formed: divergent, convergent, and transform boundaries.