Blood type (or blood group) is determined, in part, by the ABO blood group antigens present on red blood cells. A blood type (also called a blood group) is a classification of blood based on the presence or absence of inherited antigenic substances on the surface of red blood cells (RBCs). These antigens may be proteins, carbohydrates, glycoproteins, or glycolipids, depending on the blood group system. 
On this gene if ur A you have A molecules on your membrane which makes u having the most commun blood type with 44% of the world's population. In the 1st chromosomes u have the gene which is associated to the Rhesus rhésus and you HAVE + : Rh'that s how you got The a+ blood.. type · just now. Report Abuse. It means you have type B antibodies, A-antigen and positive RH antigen. Antigens stick out of the blood cell and bind with antibodies. The blood types you would be able to recieve in a transfusion are O +/- and A +/-.
There are four ABO blood groups: A, B, O and AB. Your blood plasma has antibodies in it that will react to blood that is the wrong type. Type A blood has anti-B antibodies and so will react to either type B or type AB. Type O blood is the universal donor because it has no antibodies, so anyone can use it in a transfusion, but type O's can only receive type O. Type AB is the universal recipient because it can receive blood from all four types. The + refers to the Rh blood group (a separate blood type). You are Rh + which means that you have Rh antigens on your red bllod cells. This is important to know if you get pregnant, but only if you are Rh-. If you are Rh-and have an Rh+ fetus, you could have problems in pregnancy
Some are just more rare than others. Everyone should donate blood, regardless of their blood type. O-is the universal donor (which means anyone can use their blood) and AB+ is the universal receiver (which means they can use any type of blood). All the other types are used only on patients with the same blood type (A, B, AB or O). The most common type of grouping is the ABO grouping. 
blood type. Any of the four main types into which human blood is divided: A, B, AB, and O. Blood types are based on the presence or absence of certain substances, called antigens, on red blood cells. Also called blood group. 
In addition to the A and B antigens, there is a third antigen called the Rh factor, which can be either present (+) or absent (-). In general, Rh negative blood is given to Rh-negative patients, and Rh positive blood or Rh negative blood may be given to Rh positive patients. 1  The universal red cell donor has Type O negative blood type. 2  The universal plasma donor has Type AB positive blood type. 
If you have blood type O. If you fall into the O blood group, you have neither A nor B antigens on your red cells, but both A and B antibodies in your plasma. O positive is the most common blood type; O negative is the universal donor type, meaning those with this blood type can donate red blood cells to anybody. If you have blood type B. If you have type B blood, you only have the B antigens on red cells and A antibodies in the plasma; you can donate red blood cells to those with types B and AB blood.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Being type A+ means you're a type A blood type (A antigens) and RhD Positive. RhD is generally refers to the Rhesus system Antigen, of which there are many, but only one of which is a major factor. Whether of not you have this antigen determines whether you're blood type, in addition to being A, AB, B, or O, is + (positive) or - (negative.). Source(s): Joshua B · 6 years ago. Report Abuse. It's doesn't really mean anything for day to day life. Your life would be exactly the same regardless of what your blood type is. The information is only important to medical personnel in case you needed to receive blood for surgery or due to an emergency medical situation.