Location of the Mariana Trench. The Mariana Trench or Marianas Trench is the deepest part of the world's oceans. It is located in the western Pacific Ocean, to the east of the Mariana Islands. The trench is about 2,550 kilometres (1,580 mi) long but has an average width of only 69 kilometres (43 mi). The trench is not the part of the seafloor closest to the center of the Earth. This is because the Earth is not a perfect sphere; its radius is about 25 kilometres (16 mi) less at the poles than at the equator.
The deepest point in the ocean is, not surprisingly, in the Mariana Trench. It is called the Challenger Deep, after the British ship Challenger II, which discovered this point in 1951 while surveying. The Challenger Deep lies along the southern end of the Mariana Trench near the Mariana Islands. The trench is 1,554 miles long and 44 miles wide, and is like the Grand Canyon of the ocean, although it is 120 times larger. Contrary to what you might picture, the trench is wide-according to NOAA, almost 5 times wider than it is deep. The Mariana Trench is located in the western North Pacific Ocean.
This coincides with the average depth of the bottom of the euphotic zone, which means that the deep sea is also a dark sea. The average depth of the sea is around 4,000 m (almost 2.5 miles) and the deepest point in the Mariana Trench is about 11,000 m, so there is a lot of deep sea around the world! In fact, about 90 % of the world’s ocean is deep sea. All around the world the ocean is divided into broad horizontal layers, or “zones”. The uppermost zone is called the euphotic zone (“euphotic” means “well lit” in Greek), and in this zone enough sunlight can get through to allow phytoplankton (microscopic algae) and other plants to photosynthesise.
Answer: The ocean's deepest area is the Mariana Trench (also called the Marianas Trench), which is about 11 km (almost 7 miles, or almost 36,000 feet) deep. The trench is 1,554 miles long and 44 miles wide, and is like the Grand Canyon of the ocean, although it is 120 times larger. Contrary to what you might picture, the trench is wide-according to NOAA, almost 5 times wider than it is deep. The Mariana Trench is located in the western North Pacific Ocean.
With a measured depth of approximately 35,797 feet below sea level, a journey to the bottom of the Challenger Deep is nearly seven miles, making it the deepest known place on Earth. 
Deepest Part of the Ocean The Challenger Deep in the Mariana Trench is the deepest known location in Earth's oceans. 
down! The average depth of the ocean is about. . The deepest part of the ocean is called the Challenger Deep and is located beneath the western Pacific Ocean in the southern end of the Mariana Trench, which runs several hundred kilometers southwest of the U.S. territorial island of Guam. Challenger Deep is approximately. deep.
The Mariana Trench or Marianas Trench is the deepest part of the world's oceans. It is located in the western Pacific Ocean, to the east of the Mariana Islands. The trench is not the part of the seafloor closest to the center of the Earth. This is because the Earth is not a perfect sphere; its radius is about 25 kilometres (16 mi) less at the poles than at the equator.
Deep sea zones. The deep sea or deep layer is the lowest layer in the ocean, existing below the thermocline and above the seabed, at a depth of 1000 fathoms (1800 m) or more. The reverse is in fact true....(Below 200 meters) lies the largest habitat on earth. In 1960 the Bathyscaphe Trieste descended to the bottom of the Mariana Trench near Guam, at 35,798 feet or 6.77 miles (10,911 meters), the deepest known spot in any ocean.
The average depth of the ocean is about 2.65 miles (14,000 ft) deep. The deepest part of the ocean is called the Challenger Deep, which is about 6.86 miles (36,200 ft) deep. Challenger Deep is located beneath the western Pacific Ocean in the southern end of the Mariana Trench. 