Description. The ankle joint is one of the most commonly injured joints in the body with the lateral ankle sprain being the most frequent type of sprain. The mechanism of injury is when the foot is in an inverted position combined with plantar flexion which usually does damage to the lateral complex of the ankle. 1,2.
Ankle injuries are defined by the kind of tissue -- bone, ligament, or tendon -- that's damaged. The ankle is where three bones meet -- the tibia and fibula of your lower leg with the talus of your foot. And more than 1 million people visit emergency rooms each year because of ankle injuries. The most common ankle injuries are sprains and fractures, which involve ligaments and bones in the ankle. But you can also tear or strain a tendon.
Ankle Pain. Ankle injuries are extremely common. The most common ankle injury is a sprained ankle, but ankle pain can have numerous sources. Ankle pain that results from injury are often thought of as sports injuries. But you don't necessarily have to be an athlete or even a social sportsperson to twist your ankle. While ankle pain can result from a large number of ankle and foot injuries, the most common ankle injuries are sprains (low and high ankle), which involve ligaments and bones in the ankle.
If a sprain is not treated properly, you could have long-term problems. Typically the ankle is rolled either inward (inversion sprain) or outward (eversion sprain). Inversion sprains cause pain along the outer side of the ankle and are the most common type. Pain along the inner side of the ankle may represent a more serious injury to the tendons or to the ligaments that support the arch and should always be evaluated by a doctor.
Inversion Ankle Sprains. The most common type of ankle sprain occurs when the foot is inverted or falling inward. When this type of ankle injury occurs, the 3 outer ligaments, or lateral ligaments are at risk of injury. This can result in a tear or increased laxity of the ligament. 
The most common ankle sprain occurs on the lateral or outside part of the ankle. This is an extremely common injury which affects many people during a wide variety of activities. It can happen in the setting of an ankle fracture (i.e. when the bones of the ankle also break). 
A sprained ankle, also known as an ankle sprain, twisted ankle, rolled ankle, floppy ankle, ankle injury or ankle ligament injury, is a common medical condition where one or more of the ligaments of the ankle is torn or partially torn. Contents. 
Ankle Sprains. The most common type of ankle injury is a sprain. A sprain is stretching and tearing of ligaments (fibrous bands connecting adjacent bones in a joint.) There are many ligaments around the ankle and these can become damaged when the ankle is forced into a postion not normally encountered. The most frequently seen sprain occurs when weight is applied to a foot which is on an uneven surface, and the foot rolls in (inversion). Because the sole of the foot is pointing inward as force is applied, the ligaments stabilizing the lateral-or outside-part of the ankle are stressed.
Types of Ankle Sprains. An inversion injury is the most common cause of an ankle sprain and occurs when the ankle rolls outward and the foot turns inward. It results in stretching and tearing of the ligaments on the outside of the ankle. The high ankle sprain is the least common. It can happen when the foot is forced to rotate toward the outside (away from the other foot), or when the foot is planted so it can't move and the leg is rotated toward the inside.