Lyme disease is an infection that is transmitted through the bite of a tick infected with a bacterium called Borrelia burgdorferi. Ticks typically get the bacterium by biting infected animals, like deer and mice. Most people who get tick bites do not get Lyme disease. Symptoms: Early Stage. Within one to four weeks of being bitten by an infected tick, most people will experience some symptoms of Lyme disease. A circular, expanding rash (called erythema migrans) at the site of the bite develops in about 70%-80% of cases.
The three most common ticks in New York State are the deer (black-legged) tick, the American dog tick and the lone star tick. Only deer ticks can carry the bacterium that causes Lyme disease. They can also carry the germs that cause babesiosis and human granulocytic anaplasmosis. Young deer ticks, called nymphs, are brown and the size of poppy seeds. Adult female deer ticks are red and black, while males are black. Around the time the rash appears, other symptoms, such as joint pain, chills, fever and fatigue can occur, but they may seem too mild to require medical attention. As Lyme disease progresses, severe fatigue, a stiff neck, tingling or numbness in the arms and legs, or facial paralysis can occur.
Prompt removal of ticks can prevent infection. Not all types of ticks carry Lyme disease. In the eastern United States, the black-legged tick, commonly known as the deer tick, is responsible for transmitting the disease. Deer ticks are common in Vermont, but not all of them are infected with the bacteria. It is caused by a bacteria called Borrelia burgdorferi. Ticks can get the bacteria by biting small animals that are infected. In the eastern U.S., Lyme disease is transmitted by black-legged ticks (lxodes scapularis), also called deer ticks.
A new tick borne illness that is similar to Lyme disease, with symptoms including fever and muscle pain, are being reported among people in the U.S. for the first time this year. The bacteria, called Borrelia miyamotoi is relatively new and is one of five newly identified diseases spread by deer ticks. 
If you find a tick attached to your skin, remove the tick with tweezers (see tick removal instructions on page 6), and watch for the symptoms of Lyme disease. In 60-80% of cases the first symptom is a rash, known as erythema migrans, that: 1  Occurs at or near the site of the tick bite. Around the time the rash appears, other symptoms, such as joint pain, chills, fever and fatigue can occur, but they may seem too mild to require medical attention. As Lyme disease progresses, severe fatigue, a stiff neck, tingling or numbness in the arms and legs, or facial paralysis can occur.
Recommend on Facebook Tweet ShareCompartir. The Lyme disease bacterium, Borrelia burgdorferi, is spread through the bite of infected ticks. The blacklegged tick (or deer tick, Ixodes scapularis) spreads the disease in the northeastern, mid-Atlantic, and north-central United States. 
Fact: There are a number of types of ticks, but only blacklegged ticks (commonly called deer ticks) carry the bacterium that causes Lyme disease, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). One such problematic insect is the tick, and its most commonly associated illness, Lyme disease. There were nearly 30,000 confirmed cases of the tick-borne disease in 2009, and rates are on the rise in northern states, according to recent research.
Lyme disease is an illness caused by a spirochete bacterium (Borrelia burgdorferi). This disease is transmitted to people and animals primarily by the bite of the black-legged tick, Ixodes scapularis. In 1975, Lyme disease was first recognized in the United States in children from Lyme, Connecticut. 
In the United States, some ticks carry pathogens that can cause human disease, including: 1  Anaplasmosis is transmitted to humans by tick bites primarily from the blacklegged tick (Ixodes scapularis) in the northeastern and upper midwestern U.S. and the western blacklegged tick (Ixodes pacificus) along the Pacific coast. 1 Lyme disease is transmitted by the blacklegged tick (Ixodes scapularis) in the northeastern U.S.
Lyme disease is an infection spread by the bite of an infected tick. It is caused by a bacteria called Borrelia burgdorferi. Ticks can get the bacteria by biting small animals that are infected. In the eastern U.S., Lyme disease is transmitted by black-legged ticks (lxodes scapularis), also called deer ticks. Lyme disease may affect the skin, heart, nerves, or joints