Condoms are also effective at preventing sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) transmitted through body fluids, like gonorrhea, chlamydia, and HIV. However, they provide less protection against STDs spread through skin-to-skin contact like human papillomavirus (genital warts), genital herpes, and syphilis. The best way to reduce your risk of HIV is to stop using drugs. If you cannot stop using drugs, talk with your doctor or health care provider, counselor, loved one, or someone else you trust about getting into a treatment program. Find a treatment facility near you or call 1-800-662-HELP (1-800-662-4357).
Yes, HIV medicines are also used for post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) and to prevent mother-to-child transmission of HIV. 1  Post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP). 2  PEP is the use of HIV medicine to reduce the risk of HIV infection after a possible exposure to HIV. 1 Oral sex is much less risky than anal or vaginal sex. 2  Anal sex is the most risky type of sex for HIV transmission. 3  Use condoms. 4  Use a condom correctly every time you have vaginal, anal, or oral sex. 5  Read this fact sheet from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) on how to use condoms correctly.
The main way to prevent HIV infection is to reduce the risk of exposure to HIV, for instance by having sex without a condom or sharing needles and other injecting equipment. HIV can also be caught from sharing sex toys with someone infected with HIV. See causes of HIV for more on transmission of HIV. The best way to prevent HIV and other sexually transmitted infections (STIs) is to use a condom for penetrative sex and a dental dam for oral sex.
Shares & Saves. Save. HIV is the virus that causes AIDS. AIDS is a series of opportunistic infections that occur when the immune system is weakened by the HIV virus. HIV is a blood-borne pathogen and is transmitted through the exchange of bodily fluids, specifically, blood and semen. The most common routes of transmission are unprotected sex with an infected person and exposure to infected blood and blood products, where the blood comes in contact with broken skin. There is no cure for HIV or AIDS, so prevention is the best course of action.
To help prevent the spread of HIV: Use a new condom every time you have sex. If you don't know the HIV status of your partner, use a new condom every time you have anal or vaginal sex. Women can use a female condom. When used to help prevent HIV infection, Truvada is only appropriate if your doctor is certain you don't already have an HIV infection. Your doctor should also test for hepatitis B infection. If you have hepatitis B, your doctor should test your kidney function before prescribing Truvada.
HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) is the virus that causes AIDS. Though it is not as deadly as it once was, it is still very important to protect yourself (especially now that there are drug-resistant strains). Get started with Step 1 below to learn how you can prevent the spread of HIV infections. 
Drug Use and HIV Prevention. Using drugs increases your HIV risk. If you're not ready to stop taking drugs, you can still reduce your risk of getting HIV/AIDS. Here's how: 1  Don't have sex when you're high. 2  It's easy to forget about safe sex when you're on drugs. 3  If you use drugs, don't inject them. 4  If you inject drugs, don't share the equipment
There's no vaccine to prevent HIV infection and no cure for AIDS. But it's possible to protect yourself and others from infection. That means educating yourself about HIV and avoiding any behavior that allows HIV-infected fluids — blood, semen, vaginal secretions and breast milk — into your body. When used to help prevent HIV infection, Truvada is only appropriate if your doctor is certain you don't already have an HIV infection. Your doctor should also test for hepatitis B infection. If you have hepatitis B, your doctor should test your kidney function before prescribing Truvada.
HIV prevention refers to practices done to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS. HIV prevention practices may be done by individuals to protect their own health and the health of those in their community, or may be instituted by governments or other organizations as public health policies. 