Established in 1960, Gander Mountain offers a wide assortment of outdoor equipment, firearms, camping supplies, fishing and marine products, technical and rugged outdoor apparel, and technical and casual footwear as well as gunsmith and archery services. Ten years ago, Gander Mountain was growing too big for its own IT system. Their stores, from New York to Florida and west to Colorado, were experiencing those growing pains on a daily basis. Simply put, the product selection in each store was growing too large.
Gander Mountain Company, Inc. is headquartered in St. Paul, Minnesota and is a retail network of stores for hunting, fishing, camping, and other outdoor recreation products and services. Gander Mountain Incorporated began as a catalog-based retailer in Wilmot, Wisconsin. Wilmot is located near Gander Mountain, the highest point in Lake County, Illinois a short distance across the state line. There are currently 152 Gander Mountain stores in 26 states
Gander Mountain’s Gunsmith department was founded in 1979 in Wilmot, WI. During its early stages, the gunsmith “department” was a one-man operation housed in a 200 square foot shop. The original gunsmith shop in Wilmot, WI has now been replaced by a new shop in Kenosha, WI, that serves as the central shop for the entire chain, repairing firearms from all around the country. The new shop employs twelve full-time, professionally trained associates that offer 100 plus years of experience between them.
Bob Sturgis, a former field and stream buyer for Marshall Fields & Company, founded Gander Mountain in 1960. Sturgis named the company after Wisconsin’s Gander Mountain, one of his favorite outdoor spots. Through the 1970s and 1980s, the Gander Mountain catalog grew into one of the largest hunting catalogs in the United States. Gander Mountain, Inc. successfully completed an Initial Public Offering in 1984, beginning a new era of growth for the company. The first new Gander Mountain retail concept store in 30 years opened in Appleton, Wisconsin, in 1991
Today, Gander Mountain employs over 100 gunsmiths in eighteen states, and repairs tens of thousands of firearms each year. The original gunsmith shop in Wilmot, WI has now been replaced by a new shop in Kenosha, WI, that serves as the central shop for the entire chain, repairing firearms from all around the country. The new shop employs twelve full-time, professionally trained associates that offer 100 plus years of experience between them.
Company Overview. Gander Mountain Company Inc. operates a retail network of outdoor specialty stores for shooting sports, hunting, fishing, camping, marine, apparel, footwear, and outdoor lifestyle products for men, women, and kids' in the United States. The company also provides firearms equipment; huntin..
Gander Mountain, Inc. experienced liquidity problems in 1995. In April 1996, Gander Mountain sold its catalog business to Cabela’s, another participant in the hunting, fishing and camping supply industry. In July of that year, Gander Mountain sold five of its retail stores to Holiday Companies. One month later, Gander Mountain, Inc. filed for Chapter 11 protection. Holiday Companies acquired the remaining assets of Gander Mountain, Inc., including the other 12 retail stores, in February 1997. Through the 1970s and 1980s, the Gander Mountain catalog grew into one of the largest hunting catalogs in the United States. Gander Mountain, Inc. successfully completed an Initial Public Offering in 1984, beginning a new era of growth for the company. The first new Gander Mountain retail concept store in 30 years opened in Appleton, Wisconsin, in 1991
The company offers products through its stores and catalog sales, as well as online. Gander Mountain Company Inc. was founded in 1960 and is based in Saint Paul, Minnesota. The company also provides firearms equipment; huntin... Gander Mountain Company Inc. operates a retail network of outdoor specialty stores for shooting sports, hunting, fishing, camping, marine, apparel, footwear, and outdoor lifestyle products for men, women, and kids' in the United States.