The attack on Hamburg was called ‘Operation Gomorrah’. It was a joint British-American venture. Many of the attacks on Germany up to ‘Gomorrah’ had been separate British (at night) and American (at day) attacks. The combination of both bomber forces gave Harris a substantial number of bombers and therefore a substantial number of bombs that could be dropped. Hamburg was well defended.
Now this was the sin of Sodom: She and her daughters were arrogant, overfed and unconcerned; they did not help the poor and needy. They were haughty and did detestable things before me. Therefore I did away with them as you have seen. Even as Sodom and Gomorrah, and the cities about them in like manner, giving themselves over to fornication, and going after strange flesh, are set forth for an example, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire.
Results of Operation Gomorrah: Operation Gomorrah destroyed a significant percentage of the city of Hamburg, leaving over 1 million residents homeless and killing 40,000-50,000 civilians. In the immediate wake of the raids, over two-thirds of Hamburg's population fled the city. 
However, the bombing of Hamburg brought utter destruction to the city and regardless of what happened to the city itself, it did a great deal to hearten people in Britain who had seen London and many other cities attacked and bombed with the resulting casualties. Many of the attacks on Germany up to ‘Gomorrah’ had been separate British (at night) and American (at day) attacks. The combination of both bomber forces gave Harris a substantial number of bombers and therefore a substantial number of bombs that could be dropped. Hamburg was well defended.
Clearly, homosexuality was part of why God destroyed the two cities. The men of Sodom and Gomorrah wanted to perform homosexual gang rape on the two angels (who were disguised as men). At the same time, it is not biblical to say that homosexuality was the exclusive reason why God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. While Sodom and Gomorrah were guilty of many other horrendous sins, homosexuality was the reason God poured fiery sulfur on the cities, completely destroying them and all of their inhabitants. To this day, the area where Sodom and Gomorrah were located remains a desolate wasteland
Hamburg was bombed in July 1943. According to Joseph Goebbels, Nazi Minister for Propaganda, the bombing of Hamburg was the first time that he thought Nazi Germany might have to call for peace. Many of the attacks on Germany up to ‘Gomorrah’ had been separate British (at night) and American (at day) attacks. The combination of both bomber forces gave Harris a substantial number of bombers and therefore a substantial number of bombs that could be dropped. Hamburg was well defended.
The attack during the last week of July 1943, Operation Gomorrah, created one of the largest firestorms raised by the Royal Air Force and United States Army Air Forces in World War II, killing 42,600 civilians and wounding 37,000 in Hamburg and virtually destroying most of the city. The Battle of Hamburg, codenamed Operation Gomorrah, was a campaign of air raids beginning 24 July 1943 and lasting for 8 days and 7 nights.
God told Abraham in Genesis 18 that He intended to destroy the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah for their wickedness. Abraham prayed on behalf of those wicked cities, asking whether God would destroy the righteous with the wicked? God promised He would not destroy those cities if He found even 50 righteous men. 