English Meaning: The name Bob is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Bob is: Abbreviation of Robert. American Meaning: The name Bob is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Bob is: Abbreviation of Robert. German Meaning: The name Bob is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Bob is: Famed, bright; shining. An all-time favorite boys' name since the Middle Ages. Famous Bearers: Scottish national hero Robert the Bruce and novelist Robert Ludlum
Bob is a very popular first name for men (#266 out of 1220, Top 22%) and also a very popular last name for all people (#20180 out of 150436, Top 13%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Bob for boys. Bob /bob/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced bob. It is of Old English origin. Short form of Robert, of later coinage than Hob, Dob, and Nob. Bobbie and Bobby are pet forms, though Bobbie is more frequently used for girl
The name Robert is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Robert is: Bright fame. English Meaning: The name Robert is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Robert is: Famed; bright; shining. An all-time favorite boys name since the Middle Ages. French Meaning: The name Robert is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Robert is: Famed; bright; shining.
Origin of the name Robert: Introduced to England by the Normans, Robert is derived from the Old High German Hruodperht, a compound name composed of the elements hruod (fame) and perht (bright). The name was borne by Robert I (d. 1035), duke of Normandy and father of William the Conqueror, and by three kings of Scotland.
Introduced to England by the Normans, Robert is derived from the Old High German Hruodperht, a compound name composed of the elements hruod (fame) and perht (bright). The name was borne by Robert I (d. 1035), duke of Normandy and father of William the Conqueror, and by three kings of Scotland. 
German Meaning: The name Robert is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Robert is: Famed, bright; shining. An all-time favorite boys' name since the Middle Ages. Famous Bearers: Scottish national hero Robert the Bruce and novelist Robert Ludlum. The name Robert is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Robert is: Famed; bright; shining. An all-time favorite boys name since the Middle Ages. French Meaning: The name Robert is a French baby name. In Frenc
Below is a charted analysis of the usage of the boy name Bob and affiliated names. Bert, Bertie, Bobbie, Bobby (#752 the previous year) , Rob, Robb, Robbie, Robby, Robert (#61) , Roberto (#343) , Robin and Rupert are the popular variation forms of Bob appearing in the Top 1000. Variants like Robertson are seldom used. Bob /bob/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced bob. It is of Old English origin. Short form of Robert, of later coinage than Hob, Dob, and Nob. Bobbie and Bobby are pet forms, though Bobbie is more frequently used for girls
Look up Robert in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. The name Robert is a Germanic given name, from Old High German Hrodebert bright with glory (a compound of hruod fame, glory and berht bright). It is also in use as a surname. 
Robert /ro-bert/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced RAH-bert. It is of Old German origin, and the meaning of Robert is bright fame. A favorite name for boys since the Middle Ages. Especially favored by the Scots due to 14th-century King Robert the Bruce and to poet Robert Burns. 