Movicol is a brand-name laxative manufactured by Norgine.UK. Each sachet of this medicine contains macrogol (polyethylene glycol) 3350, an iso-osmotic laxative, along with sodium bicarbonate, sodium chloride and potassium chloride. The range of Movicol includes Movicol Lemon/Lime, Movicol Junior, Movicol-Half, Movicol Chocolate, Movicol Liquid and Movicol Plain. Movicol is currently the largest selling laxative in the world in value terms. Macrogol is an inert substance that passes through the gut without being absorbed into the body. It relieves constipation because it causes the water it is taken with, to be retained in the bowel instead of being absorbed into the body
No effects during pregnancy are anticipated, since systemic exposure to macrogol 3350 is negligible. MOVICOL-Half can be used during pregnancy. Use in Lactation No effects on the breastfed newborn/infant are anticipated since the systemic exposure of the breast-feeding woman to macrogol 3350 is negligible. MOVICOL-Half can be used during breast-feeding. For use in faecal impaction the correct number of sachets can be reconstituted in advance and kept covered and refrigerated for 24 hours. For example 12 sachets can be made up into 750ml of water and 16 sachets into one litre of water.
1. The name of this medicine is Movicol 13.8g sachet, powder for oral solution. It is a laxative for the treatment of constipation in adults, adolescents and elderly. It is not recommended for children below 12 years of age. What Movicol is and what it is used for. The name of this medicine is Movicol 13.8g sachet, powder for oral solution. It is a laxative for the treatment of constipation in adults, adolescents and elderly.
Movicol is a laxative medication used to treat chronic constipation and fecal impaction. It is manufactured by the company Norgine. Movicol works by preventing water from being absorbed by the body so that it can be used to dilute and evacuate fecal matter within the bowel. Some patients with certain chronic illnesses that limit the use of their bowels may be prescribed Movicol as a long-term treatment for constipation. Most of the time, only one dose is needed to clear the bowel. In some cases, however, up to three doses can be taken over a period of three days.
If you have a heart condition do not take more than two sachets in any one hour. Open the sachet and put the powder into a glass which is half full of water (about 125 mL). Stir well until the water is clear again then drink it. 
Movicol is a prescription medication used to treat constipation. When taken as directed, it usually produces a bowel movement within 24 hours. As with any drug, Movicol side effects have been reported with usage. Most Movicol side effects are not severe enough for patients to stop taking the medication. Some patients with certain chronic illnesses that limit the use of their bowels may be prescribed Movicol as a long-term treatment for constipation. Most of the time, only one dose is needed to clear the bowel. In some cases, however, up to three doses can be taken over a period of three days.
A dose of 8 sachets a day of Movicol is needed for the treatment of faecal impaction. Each sachet dissolved in 125ml (1/4 pint) of water. The 8 sachets should be taken within 6 hours for up to 3 days if required. If you have a heart condition, do not take more than 2 sachets in any one hour. What Movicol is and what it is used for. The name of this medicine is Movicol 13.8g sachet, powder for oral solution. It is a laxative for the treatment of constipation in adults, adolescents and elderly. It is not recommended for children below 12 years of age
Movicol is generally used on a need-only basis, as long-term usage can result in dependency upon the medicine for future bowel movements. Some patients with certain chronic illnesses that limit the use of their bowels may be prescribed Movicol as a long-term treatment for constipation. Most of the time, only one dose is needed to clear the bowel. In some cases, however, up to three doses can be taken over a period of three days.