Mechanical Waves are waves which propagate through a material medium (solid, liquid, or gas) at a wave speed which depends on the elastic and inertial properties of that medium. There are two basic types of wave motion for mechanical waves: longitudinal waves and transverse waves. 
Radio waves have the longest wavelengths in the electromagnetic spectrum. These waves can be longer than a football field or as short as a football. Radio waves do more than just bring music to your radio. They also carry signals for your television and cellular phones. The antennae on your television set receive the signal, in the form of electromagnetic waves, that is broadcasted from the television station. It is displayed on your television screen. Cable companies have antennae or dishes which receive waves broadcasted from your local TV stations.
1.Wash your hair out. 2.Put some wave grease in your hair(YOUR CHOICE) 3.Then brush your hair for 10 minutes 4.After that put some Olive oil 5.Brush your hair for 5 … minutes 6.Put wave cap on for 30 minutes or overnight. OR 1. Wash your hair out with shampoo in the shower
After the wave has gone, the particles of the substance are back where they started but energy has been carried by the wave from its origin (where it begins) to its destination (where it finishes). One type of wave (an electromagnetic wave) does not need any substance to get from its origin to its destination. It can travel through a vacuum (nothing). Electromagnetic waves can travel from stars to planets through empty space (space is a vacuum). Waves transmit energy without transmitting matter. This means that waves can move energy (or information) from one place to another without moving any substance (stuff) from one place to another. The amount of energy that a wave has depends on its amplitude.
A wave can be described as a disturbance that travels through a medium from one location to another location. Consider a slinky wave as an example of a wave. When the slinky is stretched from end to end and is held at rest, it assumes a natural position known as the equilibrium or rest position. Ocean waves can only bring energy to the shore; the particles of the medium (water) simply oscillate about their fixed position. As such, water does not pile up on the beach. 5. A medium is able to transport a wave from one location to another because the particles of the medium are ____.
In physics, a wave is an oscillation accompanied by a transfer of energy that travels through space or mass. Frequency refers to the addition of time. Wave motion transfers energy from one point to another, which may or may not displace particles of the medium —that is, with little or no associated mass transport. Waves consist, instead, of oscillations or vibrations (of a physical quantity), around almost fixed locations.
Mechanical waves require a medium (substance) to travel in, other  waves do not. For example, sound is a mechanical wave and require a  medium (air, water, etc.), light is n … ot a mechanical wave and does  not require a medium. 3 people found this useful. 2.Put some wave grease in your hair(YOUR CHOICE) 3.Then brush your hair for 10 minutes 4.After that put some Olive oil 5.Brush your hair for 5 … minutes 6.Put wave cap on for 30 minutes or overnight. OR 1.
When waves move through a substance, they only move the particles of the substance backwards and forwards (longitudinal) or side to side (transverse) as the wave passes. Waves transmit energy without transmitting matter. This means that waves can move energy (or information) from one place to another without moving any substance (stuff) from one place to another. The amount of energy that a wave has depends on its amplitude.
Looking out at the ocean, one often sees a seemingly infinite series of waves, as far as the eye can see, transporting water from one place to the next. Though waves do cause the surface water to move, the idea that waves are travelling bodies of water is misleading. 
A wave can be transverse or longitudinal. Transverse waves occur when a disturbance creates oscillations that are perpendicular to the propagation of energy transfer. Longitudinal waves occur when the oscillations are parallel to the direction of energy propagation. Frequency refers to the addition of time. Wave motion transfers energy from one point to another, which may or may not displace particles of the medium —that is, with little or no associated mass transport. Waves consist, instead, of oscillations or vibrations (of a physical quantity), around almost fixed locations.