Causes of cardiovascular disease. While cardiovascular disease can refer to different heart or blood vessel problems, the term is often used to mean damage to your heart or blood vessels by atherosclerosis (ath-ur-o-skluh-ROE-sis), a buildup of fatty plaques in your arteries. Common causes of abnormal heart rhythms (arrhythmias) or conditions that can lead to arrhythmias include: 1  Heart defects you're born with (congenital heart defects). 2  Coronary artery disease. 3  High blood pressure. 4  Diabetes. 5  Smoking.
When it comes to diet, fats get a bad rap in general. Some of this perception is justified, as certain types of fat and the fat-like substance cholesterol, may play a role in cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer, and obesity. Plant-based foods and oils are the primary source of this fat. Like monounsaturated fat, polyunsaturated fat can decrease your risk of heart disease by lowering blood cholesterol levels. A certain type of this fat, called omega-3 fatty acids, have been shown to be particularly beneficial for your heart.
Smoking or using tobacco of any kind is one of the most significant risk factors for developing heart disease. Chemicals in tobacco can damage your heart and blood vessels, leading to narrowing of the arteries (atherosclerosis). Atherosclerosis can ultimately lead to a heart attack. Eating a healthy diet can reduce your risk of heart disease. Two examples of heart-healthy food plans include the Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) eating plan and the Mediterranean diet. A diet rich in fruits, vegetables and whole grains can help protect your heart.
The same decrease would lead to a 22% drop in the number of deaths resulting from strokes and a 16% fall in the number of deaths from coronary heart disease. Fruits and vegetables. Eating a diet high in fresh fruits and vegetables protects your heart. Low fruit and vegetable intake accounts for about 20% of cardiovascular disease worldwide. Fruit and vegetables contain components that protect against heart disease and stroke. Saturated fat intake should not exceed 10% of total energy and for high-risk groups, like people with diabetes, total fat intake should be 7% or less of total energy. Sodium. High blood pressure (hypertension) is a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease. If you have a diet high in sodium you risk hypertension.
Coronary Heart Disease (CHD) is the most common form of heart disease. It occurs when the arteries supplying blood to the heart narrow or harden from the build-up of plaque. Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol and other substances found in the blood. This plaque build-up is also known as atherosclerosis. The site of the plaque determines the type of heart disease: 1  Coronary artery disease is the build-up of plaque in the arteries supplying blood to the heart. 2  Peripheral artery disease is the build-up of plaque in the arteries supplying blood to the arms and legs
Risk Factors. Risk factors are behaviors or conditions that increase your chance of developing a disease. Risk factors for cardiovascular disease are also often risk factors for other chronic diseases. Many risk factors are related. For example, if someone is not physically active, that person is more likely to become overweight and more likely to develop high blood pressure. A diet rich in fruits and vegetables can prevent the development of and reduce high blood pressure, a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease. When people eat more fruits and vegetables, their blood pressure goes down. Eating certain fruits and vegetables can also benefit your eyes.
Fat. Research makes it clear that abnormal blood lipid (fat) levels have a strong correlation with the risk of coronary artery disease, heart attack and coronary death. In turn, abnormal blood lipids are related to what you eat. Saturated fat intake should not exceed 10% of total energy and for high-risk groups, like people with diabetes, total fat intake should be 7% or less of total energy. Sodium. High blood pressure (hypertension) is a major risk factor for cardiovascular disease. If you have a diet high in sodium you risk hypertension.
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a class of diseases that involve the heart or blood vessels. Cardiovascular disease includes coronary artery diseases (CAD) such as angina and myocardial infarction (commonly known as a heart attack). Coronary artery disease, stroke, and peripheral artery disease involve atherosclerosis. This may be caused by high blood pressure, smoking, diabetes, lack of exercise, obesity, high blood cholesterol, poor diet, and excessive alcohol consumption, among others.