ATP is important because when it breaks down to form ADP and in turn AMP, the phosphate groups may be transferred to other molecules making them 'more reactive' and making che … mical change more likely. For example ATP provides energy for chemical change in the liver or the retina of the eye for making visual pigments. ATP is the energy currency of the cell. It provide energy to  various metabolic (nucleic acids, proteins) reactions upon ATP  hydrolysis and phosphrylate the proteins to car … ry out their  function (eg: ion pumps).
ATP synthase (EC 3.6.3.14) is an important enzyme that provides energy for the cell to use through the synthesis of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). ATP is the most commonly used energy currency of cells from most organisms. It is formed from adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and inorganic phosphate (P i), and needs energy.
Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the biochemical way to store and use energy. F or your muscles -- in fact, for every cell in your body -- the source of energy that keeps everything going is called ATP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the biochemical way to store and use energy. The entire reaction that turns ATP into energy is a bit complicated, but here is a good summary: 1  Chemically, ATP is an adenine nucleotide bound to three phosphates. 2  There is a lot of energy stored in the bond between the second and third phosphate groups that can be used to fuel chemical reactions.
Answers. Best Answer: ATP stands for adenosine triphosphate and is the drive for your body to do work. ATP is yielded from 2 processes. the first is glycolysis which is an anaerobic process (it does not need oxygen to be carried out). 
Free Energy from Hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the energy currency of life and it provides that energy for most biological processes by being converted to ADP (adenosine diphosphate). Since the basic reaction involves a water molecule, this reaction is commonly referred to as the hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is considered by biologists to be the energy currency of life. It is the high-energy molecule that stores the energy we need to do just about everything we do.
Answers. Best Answer: ATP is the primary source of free energy in all living cells. ATP provides the energy for muscles to contract, nerves to conduct impulses, and all that cells require to build protein, pump in substances they need, permit enzymes to act, and so on. All living organisms require ATP. 
One of the most important molecules that we use and make in metabolism is ATP. ATP is short for adenosine triphosphate and is the main energy source for our bodies. ATP was discovered in 1929 by a German chemist named Karl Lohmann. ATP is one of the most important molecules in the body. In metabolism it helps with transport and making reactions more energetically favorable. ATP synthesis is fueled by the foods we eat.
Conversion from ATP to ADP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the energy currency of life and it provides that energy for most biological processes by being converted to ADP (adenosine diphosphate). Since the basic reaction involves a water molecule, this reaction is commonly referred to as the hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is considered by biologists to be the energy currency of life. It is the high-energy molecule that stores the energy we need to do just about everything we do.
These molecules are produced through various processes including cellular respiration and phosphorylation. ATP molecules are called the drivers of cellular metabolism. They carry the energy needed by a particular cellular activity. Another important thing about this molecule is that it is recyclable. In yeasts, ATP is also involved in the fermentation process. In small organisms like fungi, ATP helps in the respiration process. With its various functions in important cellular activities of living organisms, ATP is considered an essential molecule. If you like this article or our site.
ATP stands for adenosine triphosphate. It is a molecule found in the cells of living organisms. It is said to be very important because it transports the energy necessary for all cellular metabolic activities. It is dubbed as the universal unit of energy for living organisms. Without ATP, various metabolic activities in the human body cannot take place. In yeasts, ATP is also involved in the fermentation process. In small organisms like fungi, ATP helps in the respiration process. With its various functions in important cellular activities of living organisms, ATP is considered an essential molecule. If you like this article or our site.