Trash. Although many apartments have an apartment complex trash can in which you can deposit your garbage, you’re still likely to be billed for pickup. If your complex follows average utility costs, you could expect to pay between $10 and $40 a month for trash pickup. The average bill for each falls between $10 and $30 a month, although you may be billed at a flat rate for both that can cost between $20 and $60. Although many apartments have an apartment complex trash can in which you can deposit your garbage, you’re still likely to be billed for pickup.
what is the average cost of utilities,water,cable,etc.in the davis area of northern ca. 0 votes • Thank • Flag • Link • Sun Apr 15, 2012. Cancel. Reply. BEST ANSWER. Gita Bantwal, Agent, Jamison, PA. Kerry, If you are buyinga house, you can ask your agent to ask the seller for an estimate of the monthly utilty costs. The monthly cost of cable, for example, could vary from about $30 to $200 or more depending on what options you choose. For gas, electric, water & sewer, a rough starting point for preliminary budgeting purposes might be $250-300/month, assuming a small house and conservative energy use.
1 Utility costs are expenses for electricity, gas, other heating and cooking fuels, water and sewer. 2  In larger spaces, utilities are separately metered and paid by the Tenant. 3  In small spaces, utilities may not be separately metered and are apportioned among all users. utility costs. 1  Utility costs are expenses for electricity, gas, other heating and cooking fuels, water and sewer. 2  In larger spaces, utilities are separately metered and paid by the Tenant.
Average Utility Costs By Zip Code. utility costs. 1  Utility costs are expenses for electricity, gas, other heating and cooking fuels, water and sewer. 2  In larger spaces, utilities are separately metered and paid by the Tenant. 3  In small spaces, utilities may not be separately metered and are apportioned among all users
Here, too, there are many factors that can alter utility costs. For example, the average water consumption for a family of four at 100 gallons per day can cost as low as $34 per month in Phoenix and as high a $65 per month in Boston. Likewise, energy costs can fluctuate based on consumption habits, location and size of a home.
BEST ANSWER. Hannah Krause, , 15217. Kerry, utility costs can really vary widely depending on the size of the home, energy efficiency, number of people living in the home, and personal habits. The monthly cost of cable, for example, could vary from about $30 to $200 or more depending on what options you choose. For gas, electric, water & sewer, a rough starting point for preliminary budgeting purposes might be $250-300/month, assuming a small house and conservative energy use.
You have to consider the size of your apartment and the general climate. An average electric bill may be as low as $30 per month or as high as $100. Gas may cost, on average, anywhere from $40 to $150 and can fluctuate depending on the season. The average bill for each falls between $10 and $30 a month, although you may be billed at a flat rate for both that can cost between $20 and $60. Although many apartments have an apartment complex trash can in which you can deposit your garbage, you’re still likely to be billed for pickup. If your complex follows average utility costs, you could expect to pay between $10 and $40 a month for trash pickup
Prices paid by Los Angeles area consumers for utility (piped) gas, commonly referred to as natural gas, were $1.275 per therm, or 36.8 percent more compared to the national average in August 2015 ($0.932 per therm). At $3.684 a gallon, Los Angeles area consumers paid 34.2 percent more than the $2.745 national average in August 2015. A year earlier, consumers in the Los Angeles area paid 9.3 percent more than the national average for a gallon of gasoline.