A mannequin is in the garrote to show the position of a human in the device. A garrotte is a weapon, usually a handheld ligature of chain, rope, scarf, wire or fishing line used to strangle a person. Garrotte is normal British English spelling, with single ' r' as an alternate. Garrote with a single ' t' is US English spelling. A Spanish version is garrote vil
For the corregimiento in Panama, see Garrote, Colon. Colón a garrote or garrote (vil A spanish; word alternative spellings include garotte and) garrotte is a, weapon most often referring to a handheld ligature of, chain, rope, scarf wire or fishing line used to strangle a. person In this 15th-century depiction of the burning of Albigensians after an auto de fe, the condemned had been garroted previously. It is one of the first depictions of a garrote. Pedro Berruguete, Saint Dominic Presiding over an Auto-da-fe.
1. a method of execution in which an iron collar is tightened around a person's neck until death occurs. 2. the collarlike instrument used for this. 3. strangulation or throttling, esp. in the course of a robbery. 4. a cord or wire used for strangling. 5. to execute or stangle with the garrote. garrote or French garrot cudgel, of uncertain orig.]. gar•rot′er, n. Past participle: garroted. Gerund: garroting. 1. garrote-an instrument of execution for execution by strangulation. garotte, garrotte, iron collar. instrument of execution-an instrument designed and used to take the life of a condemned person.
Please try again later. A Garrote wire is simply a wire. However, a variety of other materials can be used, such as fishing line, guitar strings, piano wires, scarves, or telephone cords, among other things. The wire is used to strangle one's opponent or cut into the neck, slicing through the carotid arteries. 
A garrote can be made out of many different materials, including ropes, cable ties, fishing lines, nylon, guitar strings, telephone cord or piano wire. In this 15th-century depiction of the burning of Albigensians after an auto de fe, the condemned had been garroted previously. It is one of the first depictions of a garrote. Pedro Berruguete, Saint Dominic Presiding over an Auto-da-fe.
Full Definition of GARROTE. 1. a: a method of execution by strangulation b: the apparatus used. 2. : an implement (as a wire with a handle at each end) for strangulation. Full Definition of GARROTE. transitive verb. : to strangle with or as if with a garrote. — gar·rot·er noun. See garrote defined for English-language learners.
A stick may be used to tighten the garrote; the Spanish word actually refers to the stick itself, so it is a pars pro toto where the eponymous component may actually be absent. In Spanish, the term may also refer to a rope and stick used to constrict a limb as a torture device. In this 15th-century depiction of the burning of Albigensians after an auto de fe, the condemned had been garroted previously. It is one of the first depictions of a garrote. Pedro Berruguete, Saint Dominic Presiding over an Auto-da-fe.
Description Edit. The Garrote wire is simply that, a wire. However, a variety of other materials can be used, such as fishing line, guitar strings, piano wires, scarves, or telephone cords, among other things. Uses Edit. The Garrote wire is used to strangle one's opponent or cut into the neck, slicing through the carotid arteries. Because it is easily concealable, silent, and deadly, it is often used for assassinations in situations when a gun is not a suitable option.
The garrote was the principal device used for capital punishment in Spain for one and a half centuries until its abolition. Originally, it entailed a mode of execution wherein a convict would be beaten to death with a club (garrote in Spanish). In this 15th-century depiction of the burning of Albigensians after an auto de fe, the condemned had been garroted previously. It is one of the first depictions of a garrote. Pedro Berruguete, Saint Dominic Presiding over an Auto-da-fe.