Cover the grill again and allow to cook for another 15-20 minutes. Repeat, turning the chicken pieces over, basting them with sauce, covering, and cooking for another 10-30 minutes. NOTE that timing will depend on your grill set-up, the size of your chicken pieces, and how cold your chicken pieces are to start with! Grill for 5-10 minutes, depending on how hot the grill is (you do not want the chicken to burn). Once you have a good sear on one side, move the chicken pieces to the cooler side of the grill.
1 Bake for 20 minutes and brush a layer of BBQ sauce on the chicken. 2  Return to the oven and repeat brushing with BBQ sauce every 5 minutes until the chicken is cooked through, about 15 to 20 minutes longer. 1 Return to the oven and repeat brushing with BBQ sauce every 5 minutes until the chicken is cooked through, about 15 to 20 minutes longer. 2  Chicken is done when it reaches an internal temperature of 165 degrees F when read with a thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the breast.
Repeat the application of BBQ sauce to the chicken every 5 minutes until the chicken is cooked through. Standard chicken breasts take a total of 35-40 minutes, so 4-5 brushings with the sauce should do ya. 1 Return to the oven and repeat brushing with BBQ sauce every 5 minutes until the chicken is cooked through, about 15 to 20 minutes longer. 2  Chicken is done when it reaches an internal temperature of 165 degrees F when read with a thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the breast.
Grill with just a pinch of patience – over direct, medium heat for about 10 minutes – and you'll be rewarded with juicy, succulent chicken breasts. And, if you want to plate up breasts that are even more flavorful try grilling free range chicken. How long do you grill chicken. Knowing when your chicken is done – and I'm talking moist, juicy, finger-licking-goodness done, not dry-as-boot-leather done – is easy if you follow three handy little tips. : Go easy on the breast.
2 Lay the chicken pieces skin side down on the hottest side of the grill in order to sear the skin side well. Grill for 5-10 minutes, depending on how hot the grill is (you do not want the chicken to burn). Once you have a good sear on one side, move the chicken pieces to the cooler side of the grill.
1 Season with salt and pepper. 2  Bake for 20 minutes and brush a layer of BBQ sauce on the chicken. 3  Return to the oven and repeat brushing with BBQ sauce every 5 minutes until the chicken is cooked through, about 15 to 20 minutes longer. 1 Return to the oven and repeat brushing with BBQ sauce every 5 minutes until the chicken is cooked through, about 15 to 20 minutes longer. 2  Chicken is done when it reaches an internal temperature of 165 degrees F when read with a thermometer inserted into the thickest part of the breast.
For a charcoal grill, place poultry on grill rack, bone side up, directly over medium coals. Grill, uncovered, for the time given or until the proper temperature is reached and meat is no longer pink, turning once halfway through grilling. For a gas grill, preheat grill. Reduce heat to medium. Place poultry on grill rack, bone side down, over heat. Cover and grill for the time given. Test for doneness using a meat thermometer (use an instant-read thermometer to test small portions).
Note that chicken thighs and legs will hold up better to long, slow heat than will breasts which can more easily dry out. If you barbecue breasts, keep them on the coolest part of the grill. This recipe assumes fairly large chicken pieces (like the main pieces from a 4 to 5 pound whole chicken). Grill for 5-10 minutes, depending on how hot the grill is (you do not want the chicken to burn). Once you have a good sear on one side, move the chicken pieces to the cooler side
On average, it takes about 10 to 12 minutes for a chicken breast to cook on a grill. If the fire is hot, turn the meat every 1 or 2 minutes. If the fire has cooled a little, 4 or 5 minutes per turn is good. if you are using boneless chicken, I do medium high heat on my weber grill and cook about 5 - 6 min per side, for total of 10 - 12 min or until juices run clear.