Ecology is not just biological, but a human science as well. An early and influential social scientist in the history of human ecology was Herbert Spencer. Spencer was influenced by and reciprocated his influence onto the works of Charles Darwin. However, the term appears to have come into common use in the medical and public health literature in the mid-twentieth century. This was strengthened in 1971 by the publication of Epidemiology as Medical Ecology, and again in 1987 by the publication of a textbook on Public Health and Human Ecology.
Definition of Ecology [edit]. The term oekologie (ecology) was coined in 1866 by the German biologist, Ernst Haeckel from the Greek oikos meaning house or dwelling, and logos meaning science or study. Thus, ecology is the study of the household of nature. 
The term ecology was coined by Ernst Haeckel in 1866 and defined by direct reference to the economy of nature. Like the contemporaries of his time, Haeckel adopted the terminology of Carl Linnaeus who published Specimen academicum de oeconomia naturae in 1749. Linnaeus was also the first to write about the close affinity between humans and primates. The work of Linnaeus influenced Charles Darwin and other scientists of his time who used Linnaeus' terminology (i.e., the economy and polis of nature) with direct implications on matters of human affairs, ecology, and economics.
The first English-language use of the term ecology is credited to American chemist and founder of the field of home economics, Ellen Swallow Richards. Richards first introduced the term as  oekology  in 1892, and subsequently developed the term human ecology. However, the term appears to have come into common use in the medical and public health literature in the mid-twentieth century. This was strengthened in 1971 by the publication of Epidemiology as Medical Ecology, and again in 1987 by the publication of a textbook on Public Health and Human Ecology.
The philosophy and study of human ecology has a diffuse history with advancements in geography, sociology, psychology, anthropology, zoology, epidemiology, public health, home economics, and natural ecology, among others. However, the term appears to have come into common use in the medical and public health literature in the mid-twentieth century. This was strengthened in 1971 by the publication of Epidemiology as Medical Ecology, and again in 1987 by the publication of a textbook on Public Health and Human Ecology.
The history of ecology is generally spoken of as a new science, having only become prominent in the second half of the 20th century. Ecological thought is derivative of established currents in philosophy, particularly from ethics and politics. Its history stems all the way back to the 4th century. George “G” Evelyn Hutchinson was a 20th-century ecologist who is commonly recognized as the “Father of Modern Ecology”. Hutchinson is of English descent but spent most of professional career studying in New Haven, Connecticut at Yale University.
The term “ecology” was coined by the German zoologist, Ernst Haeckel, in 1866 to describe the “economies” of living forms. The theoretical practice of ecology consists, by and large, of the construction of models of the interaction of living systems with their environment (including other living systems). The science of ecology studies interactions between individual organisms and their environments, including interactions with both conspecifics and members of other species.
The term human ecology was published in 1907 in Ellen Swallow Richards work Sanitation in Daily Life, defined there as the study of the surroundings of human beings in the effects they produce on the lives of men. However, the term appears to have come into common use in the medical and public health literature in the mid-twentieth century. This was strengthened in 1971 by the publication of Epidemiology as Medical Ecology, and again in 1987 by the publication of a textbook on Public Health and Human Ecology.
The term ecology was coined in 1866 as oekologie by Ernst Haeckel (1834–1919), a Prussian biologist and zoologist. It is derived from the Greek terms oikos, meaning household, and logos, which translates into study. The Greek word oikonomia is the root of both economy and ecology. The former term means management of the household, and the term ecology means the science of the household. Ecology is a plastic term. It is used in a scientific, or professional, sense but it is also used in other ways.
Ecology is not just biological, but a human science as well. Human ecology made its first formal appearance in a sociological study in 1921. However, the history of human ecology has its strongest roots in geography and sociobiology departments of the late 19th century. Linnaeus was also the first to write about the close affinity between humans and primates. The work of Linnaeus influenced Charles Darwin and other scientists of his time who used Linnaeus' terminology (i.e., the economy and polis of nature) with direct implications on matters of human affairs, ecology, and economics.