Fathoms to feet length units conversion table shows the most common values for the quick reference. Alternatively, you may use the converter below to convert any other values. 1 Fathom = 6 Feet. Fathom is an imperial, US customary length unit and usually used to measure the depth of water. The abbreviation is ftm. Foot is an imperial, US customary length unit and commonly used in daily lif
fathom. n. 1. (Units) a unit of length equal to six feet (1.829 metres), used to measure depths of water. 2. (Mining & Quarrying) mining a unit of volume usually equal to six cubic feet, used in measuring ore bodies. fathom-a linear unit of measurement (equal to 6 feet) for water depth. fthm. linear measure, linear unit-a unit of measurement of length. yard, pace-a unit of length equal to 3 feet; defined as 91.44 centimeters; originally taken to be the average length of a stride.
fathom. a measure of depth of water (6 feet or 1.8 metres). The water is 8 fathoms deep. fathom. n. 1. (Units) a unit of length equal to six feet (1.829 metres), used to measure depths of water. 2. (Mining & Quarrying) mining a unit of volume usually equal to six cubic feet, used in measuring ore bodies. 3. (Forestry) forestry a unit of volume equal to six cubic feet, used for measuring timber.
This article is about the unit of length. For other uses, see Fathom (disambiguation) . A fathom = 6 feet or 1.8288 metres, is a unit of length in the old imperial and the U.S. customary systems, used especially for measuring the depth of water. There are two yards (6 feet) in an imperial fathom. One fathom is equal to: 1  1.8288 metres exactly (1 metre is about 0.5468 fathoms). 2  2 yards (1 yard is exactly 1/2 of a fathom). 3  6 feet (1 foot is exactly 1/6 of a fathom).
The most commonly used fathom today is the international fathom. There are 2 yards or 6 feet in a fathom. Once also used for measuring distances on land, the fathom is now restricted to nautical uses, especially expressing the depth of water or the length of nautical rope or cable. A fathom is the name of a unit of length, in a number of different systems, including English units, Imperial units, and United States customary units.
1 British English: fathom A fathom is a measurement of 1.8 metres or 6 feet, used when referring to the depth of water. 2  NOUNWe sailed into the bay and dropped anchor in five fathoms of water. 3  Brazilian Portuguese: braca.  braça noun. 1  a unit of length equal to six feet (1.829 metres), used to measure depths of water. ( 2 mining) a unit of volume usually equal to six cubic feet, used in measuring ore bodies. ( 3 forestry) a unit of volume equal to six cubic feet, used for measuring timber.
Definition of FATHOM for Kids. : a unit of length equal to six feet (about 1.8 meters) used chiefly in measuring the depth of water. verb. fath·omed fath·om·ing. 1
Translations for 'fathom'. 1  British English: fathom A fathom is a measurement of 1.8 metres or 6 feet, used when referring to the depth of water. 2  NOUNWe sailed into the bay and dropped anchor in five fathoms of water. noun. 1  a unit of length equal to six feet (1.829 metres), used to measure depths of water. ( 2 mining) a unit of volume usually equal to six cubic feet, used in measuring ore bodies. ( 3 forestry) a unit of volume equal to six cubic feet, used for measuring timber.