Mediterranean Climate. Mediterranean climate is also recognized as the Dry Summer Subtropical climate as the land borders nearby the region of Mediterranean Sea. Adjacent the Mediterranean Basin, there are other places which are affected with Mediterranean climate namely. Mediterranean weather conditions are a part of the World Climatic Regions which is characterized by wet winter and dry summer along with occasional precipitation.
Summers are hot and arid. The Mediterranean climate is of C type according to the K ppen classification (moderate wet with dry summer). Europe Provance-France The shores of the Mediterranean Sea. The Crimea peninsula in south Russia. The Mediterranean climate is characterized by no freezing temperatures in winter and dry summers. During the winter months, many Europeans choose to stay at many Cancun resorts to.
by Heidi Gildemeister. It is generally accepted that the mediterranean climate occurs in southern and southwestern Australia, central Chile, coastal California, the Western Cape of South Africa and around the Mediterranean Basin. 
Very few places experience snow in a Mediterranean climate. The seasonal changes are due to changes in ocean currents and water temperature. The climate is known for warm to hot, dry summers and mild to cool, wet winters. Winter temperatures are usually between 30 and 65 degrees. Mediterranean climate is a fairly dry climate. Almost no rain falls during the summer, so most of the rain falls during the cooler winter. The summer experiences cold ocean currents that bring dry air and no precipitation. During the winter the currents shift and warmer, moist air brings rain to these areas.
The Mediterranean climate is characterized by warm to hot, dry summers and mild to cool, wet winters. Regions with this form of the Mediterranean climate typically experience hot, sometimes very hot and dry summers and mild, wet winters. In a number of instances, summers here can closely resemble summers seen in arid and semiarid climates.
The  Mediterranean climate is also called the Dry summer-subtropical  climate. Many locations with a such climate have an abudant  sunshine duration (usually above 2 500 hours) year-round but  especially in summer where cloudy days are almost non-existant but  even in winter during the wet season. In Europe and northern Africa, the Mediterranean climate is defined by the subtropical Mediterranean Sea, which is well north of the equator (30° to 45° N latitude).
San Luis Obispo Botanical Garden displays and preserves the diverse plant life of mediterranean climate regions of the world which include: the Mediterranean Basin, California, central Chile, the Western Cape Province of South Africa, and parts of Western and South Australia. Only 1% to 2% of the worlds’ land mass has a mediterranean climate. Of this, 60% is in the Mediterranean Basin, 22% in Australia, 10% in California, 5% in Chile, and 3% in South Africa.
The Dry Summer Subtropical climate, is also known as the Mediterranean climate because the land that borders the Mediterranean Sea is a type locality for this climate. The wet winter/dry summer seasonality of precipitation is the defining characteristic of this climate. 
The term Mediterranean climate /ˌmɛdɪtəˈreɪniən/ is one typical of the Mediterranean Basin and is a particular variety of subtropical climate. Regions with this form of the Mediterranean climate typically experience hot, sometimes very hot and dry summers and mild, wet winters. In a number of instances, summers here can closely resemble summers seen in arid and semiarid climates.
Mediterranean Climate. a subtropical climate with hot dry summers and mild rainy winters. It occurs in the countries of the Mediterranean region; in the USSR such a climate is found on the Southern Crimean Shore and along the Black Sea coast of the Caucasus northwest of Tuapse. Mediterranean climate. (climatology). A type of climate characterized by hot, dry, sunny summers and a winter rainy season; basically, this is the opposite of a monsoon climate.