The Golgi apparatus packages, sorts, and modifies proteins that come from the endoplasmic reticulum which contain the protein making ribosomes. It tells different macromolecul … es which part of the cell to go to. 1 person found this useful. Answered. The Golgi apparatus (= Golgi body, Golgi complex, or dictyosome) is a membranous structure, and there are no internal … membranes in prokaryotes.   The only membrane is the one that surrounds the cytoplasm, called the cell membrane or plasma membrane. 7 people
Abstract. The Golgi complex performs a central function in the secretory pathway in the sorting and sequential processing of a large number of proteins destined for other endomembrane organelles, the plasma membrane, or secretion from the cell, in addition to lipid metabolism and signaling. A good example of the membrane-protein interactions that may operate in maintaining Golgi homeostasis is the yeast Golgi-localised Vps74 protein (GOLPH3 in humans). PI(4)P is required for the correct localization of Vps74/GOLPH3, and both bind directly to PI(4)P.
Answers. Best Answer: Golgi Apparatus moves substances in and out of cell. Think of it as the UPS of the cell, sending and recieving nessesary substances. Homeostasis is a balance, so the Golgi apparatus moves stuff in and out of the cell to maintan this balance. Source(s): Report Abuse. The Golgi apparatus, having the main function of packaging and preparing secretions before release from the cell. is also involved in the similar preparation of hormones (which are one type of secretion eg thyroxine, growth hormone, adrenaline, etc.).
Homeostasis is the ability of a cell or body to maintain stable function amidst changing conditions. As applied to cells, homeostasis first means that what can interact with the organelles and nucleus of a cell must be limited. This is primarily accomplished by the cell membrane, which is a layer of fat and lipids interspersed with proteins which allow needed chemicals and proteins to cross into or out of the cell.
11. Homeostasis is the body process that attempts to maintain balance of internal environment variables such as pH, temperature, and blood sugar levels because cells and organs function properly in only a narrow range of conditions. 12. All cells have a cell membrane. The body attempts to maintain internal temperatures within this range though the process of homeostasis. However, in cases of exposure to extreme heat or cold, the homeostatic balance is disturbed, and cell die-off, organ damage, or even death can result. 2.
If there were no Golgi apparatus, or Body, then the Cell would not be able to fully produce new substances because the cell would not be able to package substances such as e … nzymes etc. into secretory vesicles or micelles which attach to cell walls and allow the substance to leave the cell. The Golgi apparatus (= Golgi body, Golgi complex, or dictyosome) is a membranous structure, and there are no internal … membranes in prokaryotes.   The only membrane is the one that surrounds the cytoplasm, called the cell membrane or plasma membrane. 7 people found this useful.
No, there is no Golgi apparatus in a prokaryotic cell. The Golgi apparatus (= Golgi body, Golgi complex, or dictyosome) is a membranous structure, and there are no internal … membranes in prokaryotes.   The only membrane is the one that surrounds the cytoplasm, called the cell membrane or plasma membrane. 7 people found this useful.