1 To compare the IOP reducing effect of latanoprost (Xalatan) versus travoprost (Travatan) versus bimatoprost (Lumigan) over a twelve-week period. [ 2  Time Frame: 12 weeks ] [ Designated as safety issue: No 3  ]. The mean change since baseline of Week 12 IOP measured at the time of peak (8:00AM) drug effect.
1 Hypersensitivity to benzalkonium chloride or to any other component in latanoprost (Xalatan), travoprost (Travatan) or bimatoprost (Lumigan). 2  Other abnormal ocular conditions or symptoms preventing the patient from entering the study, in the investigator's clinical judgement.
Study comparing Lumigan and Xalatan generates controversy by Rochelle Nataloni Contributing Editor. Mean changes from baseline intraocular pressure were 0.9 mm Hg to 2.2 mm Hg greater with bimatoprost (Lumigan, Allergan) than with latanoprost (Xalatan, Pharmacia) in a multicenter, randomized, masked clinical trial.
In 2008, the American FDA gave approval for the cosmetic use of bimatoprost 0.03% under the name Latisse. The ingredients are the same as Lumigan, as are the concentrations of all the ingredients and the bottle that it is supplied in. The only difference is the packaging and that it is supplied with applicators.
Prostaglandins. The first type of eyedrop used by most glaucoma patients is the group called prostaglandins: bimatoprost (Lumigan), latanoprost (Xalatan), and travoprost (Travatan Z). Through this section, we’ll use the small letter name for the chemical or generic product and Capital letter for the brand name.
while all the eye drops in that family (latanoprost, lumigan and travatan-Z can cause dark pigmentation around the eyelids I have never had (of the thousands of patient's I've treated with these medications) or read in the medical journals about the pigment occurring within 5 days. If that is the case one of a kind.
1 Ocular surgery (on the globe of the eye only), or inflammation/infection within 3 months prior to screen visit. ( 2 Applies to both fellow and study eyes.). 3  Hypersensitivity to benzalkonium chloride or to any other component in latanoprost (Xalatan), travoprost (Travatan) or bimatoprost (Lumigan).