The human digestive system is a series of organs that converts food into essential nutrients that are absorbed into the body and eliminates unused waste material. It is essential to good health because if the digestive system shuts down, the body cannot be nourished or rid itself of waste. Many symptoms can signal problems with the GI tract, including: abdominal pain, blood in the stool, bloating, constipation, diarrhea, heartburn, incontinence, nausea and vomiting and difficulty swallowing, according to the NIH. Among the most widely known diseases of the digestive system is colon cancer.
Digestion begins in the mouth with the secretion of saliva and its digestive enzymes. Food is formed into a bolus by the mechanical mastication and swallowed into the esophagus from where it enters the stomach through the action of peristalsis. Digestion is the breakdown of large insoluble food molecules into small water-soluble food molecules so that they can be absorbed into the watery blood plasma. In certain organisms, these smaller substances are absorbed through the small intestine into the blood stream.
I've heard that eating certain foods can cause bezoars. A bezoar (BE-zor) is a solid mass of indigestible material that accumulates in your digestive tract, sometimes causing a blockage. Bezoars usually form in the stomach, sometimes in the small intestine or, rarely, the large intestine. They can occur in children and adults. 
Even the smell of food can generate saliva, which is secreted by the salivary glands in the mouth, contains an enzyme, salivary amylase, which breaks down starch. Teeth, which are part of the skeletal system, play a key role in digestion. In carnivores, teeth are designed for killing and breaking down meat. Many symptoms can signal problems with the GI tract, including: abdominal pain, blood in the stool, bloating, constipation, diarrhea, heartburn, incontinence, nausea and vomiting and difficulty swallowing, according to the NIH. Among the most widely known diseases of the digestive system is colon cancer.
Most food, however, is not absorbed in the stomach and passes into the duodenum (first section of the small intestine) in the form of a thick liquid called chyme. Digestive enzymes from the pancreas pancreas, glandular organ that secretes digestive enzymes and hormones. , esophagus esophagus, portion of the digestive tube that conducts food from the mouth to the stomach. When food is swallowed it passes from the pharynx into the esophagus, initiating rhythmic contractions (peristalsis) of the esophageal wall, which propel the food along toward the stomach......
The gallbladder is a small storage organ located inferior and posterior to the liver. Though small in size, the gallbladder plays an important role in our digestion of food. The gallbladder holds bile produced in the liver until it is needed for digesting fatty foods in the duodenum of the small intestine. Bile in the gallbladder may crystallize and form gallstones, which can become painful and potentially life threatening.... The gallbladder acts as a storage vessel for bile produced by the liver. Bile is produced by hepatocytes cells in the liver and passes through the bile ducts to the cystic duct. From the cystic duct, bile is pushed into the gallbladder by peristalsis (muscle contractions that occur in orderly waves).
Secretion of Bile and the Role of Bile Acids In Digestion. Bile is a complex fluid containing water, electrolytes and a battery of organic molecules including bile acids, cholesterol, phospholipids and bilirubin that flows through the biliary tract into the small intestine. 1 Bile contains bile acids, which are critical for digestion and absorption of fats and fat-soluble vitamins in the small intestine. 2  Many waste products, including bilirubin, are eliminated from the body by secretion into bile and elimination in feces.
1 The churning action of the stomach muscles physically breaks down the food. 2  The stomach releases acids and enzymes for the chemical breakdown of food. 3  The enzyme pepsin is responsible for protein breakdown. 4  The stomach releases food into the small intestine in a controlled and regulated manner. The crushed and mixed food is liquefied to form chyme and is pushed through the pyloric canal into the small intestine. A network of blood vessels and nerves surrounds the stomach; this is responsible for the regulation of the secretion and the motion of stomach muscles that churns food.
The pancreas secretes digestive enzymes and stomach acid-neutralizing bicarbonate. The liver produces bile, which is stored in the gall bladder before entering the bile duct into the duodenum. Digestion of carbohydrates, proteins, and fats continues in the small intestine. Food is mixed in the lower part of the stomach by peristaltic waves that also propel the acid-chyme mixture against the pyloric sphincter. Increased contractions of the stomach push the food through the sphincter and into the small intestine as the stomach eempties over a 1 to 2 hour period.
The stomach is not the only part of your digestive system that absorbs food but rather is a part of the digestive system and important for churning food into a consistency that is easier to digest for the rest of your intestines. The crushed and mixed food is liquefied to form chyme and is pushed through the pyloric canal into the small intestine. A network of blood vessels and nerves surrounds the stomach; this is responsible for the regulation of the secretion and the motion of stomach muscles that churns food.