a long chain of amino acids joined by peptide bonds. Very long polypeptides are usually called proteins. Polypeptides may be formed by partial hydrolysis of proteins or synthesized from free amino acids. A chain of amino acids joined by covalent peptide bonds. Polypeptides are longer than an oligopeptides and may constitute an entire protein. 
In organic chemistry, peptide synthesis is the production of peptides, which are organic compounds in which multiple amino acids are linked via amide bonds, also known as peptide bonds. The biological process of producing long peptides (proteins) is known as protein biosynthesis. Peptides are synthesized by coupling the carboxyl group or C-terminus of one amino acid to the amino group or N-terminus of another. Due to the possibility of unintended reactions, protecting groups are usually necessary. Chemical peptide synthesis starts at the C-terminal end of the peptide and ends at the N-terminu
Proteins consist of one or more of these polypeptide chains. The primary structure of a protein is known as a polypeptide. From the two terminals of the polypeptide chain, N-terminus is where the amino group is free, and the c-terminus is where the carboxyl group is free. Polypeptides are synthesized at ribosomes. The amino acid sequence in the polypeptide chain is determined by the codons in mRNA. Protein. Proteins are one of the most important types of macromolecules in living organism
Proteins are composed of α-amino acids linked together by peptide bonds into polypeptide chains. An amino acid is characterized by an amino group (-NH2) and a carboxylic acid group (-COOH) linked to a carbon, known as the α-carbon. Also attached to the α-carbon is a H and various R-groups or side-chains. There are 20100 possible different polypeptides that are 100 amino acid residues long. During the synthesis of a polypeptide, an amino acid is attached to the C-or carboxyl terminus of the existing chain.
Building a polypeptide: Polymers are chains of subunits, monomers, linked together by chemical bonds. The bond between two amino acids is known as a peptide bond. Two amino acids, joined together by a peptide bond, are known as a dipeptide. An amino acid polymer is known as a polypeptide. There are 20100 possible different polypeptides that are 100 amino acid residues long. During the synthesis of a polypeptide, an amino acid is attached to the C-or carboxyl terminus of the existing chain.
Answer by Jacqui Fisher. Confidence votes 4. Polypeptide chains are synthesised in the ribosomes of cells along the rough endoplasmic reticulum during protein synthesis, however, before this can happen, transcription of DNA triplets must occur in the nucleus using mRNA.
The removal of water creates a peptide bond, which holds two amino acids together. Each time an amino acid is added to the polypeptide chain, another water molecule is removed. Amino acids are continually joined to one another using dehydration synthesis. However, polypeptide chains can come in all different lengths. Proteins are multifunctional and are essential to everyday cellular functions. All proteins are different from one another and each consists of one or more polypeptide chain. Your cells use dehydration synthesis to link multiple amino acids together and form a polypeptide chain. During this process, a water molecule is removed which creates a peptide bond between two amino acids. Each polypeptide chain is a series of amino acids joined together in a specific sequence
DNA is divided into functional units called genes. A gene (def) is a segment of DNA that codes for a functional product (mRNA, tRNA, or rRNA). Since the vast majority of genes are transcribed into mRNA and mRNA is subsequently translated into polypeptides or proteins, most genes code for protein synthesis. The term polypeptide (def) refers to many amino acids (def) connected by peptide bonds (def)