Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Asia Minor is a peninsula. It is also called Anatolia and is mostly the country of turkey. A large part of the Asian part of Turkey is Asia Minor. The people there speak Turkish and Kurdish. The seas surrounding Asia Minor are the Black Sea, the Aegean Sea and the Mediterranean Se
Asia Minor, a peninsula also called Anatolia, comprises most of the Asian part of modern Turkey and the Armenian highland. Most people there today speak Turkish. The seas surrounding Asia Minor are the Black Sea, the Aegean Sea and the Mediterranean Sea. Because Asia Minor is between Christian Europe and Asia, many different cultures have lived there. Remnants (small parts) of these cultures are there today
In the ancient world, Asia Minor was the seat of the kingdoms and cities of Thrace, Bythinia, Paphlagonia, Aeloia, Phrygia, Galicia, Pontus, Armenia, Urartu, Assyria, Cilicia, Pamphylia, Lycia, Pisidia, Lycanoia, Caria, Mysia, Ionia, Lydia and, most famously, Troy. Turkish control increased in the region until 1299 CE when Asia Minor became part of the Ottoman Empire and, after its collapse, became Turkey.
Asia Minor is a geographic region in the south-western part of Asia comprising most of what is present-day Turkey. The earliest reference to the region comes from tablets of the Akkadian Dynasty (2334-2083 BCE) where it is known as “The Land of the Hatti ” and was inhabited by the Hittites. Turkish control increased in the region until 1299 CE when Asia Minor became part of the Ottoman Empire and, after its collapse, became Turkey.
Prehistory. Agriculture had come early to Anatolia (that part of the modern country of Turkey which is called Asia Minor). By the 8th century BC farming communities were well established in the region, and some of the earliest towns excavated by archaeologists were located here. 
Called Asia Minor (Lesser Asia) by the Romans, the land is the Asian part of modern Turkey, across Thrace. It lies across the Aegean Sea to the east of Greece and is usually known by its Greek name Anatolia. 
The Anatolian peninsula, also called Asia Minor, is bounded by the Black Sea to the north, the Mediterranean Sea to the south, the Aegean Sea to the west, and the Sea of Marmara to the northwest, which separates Anatolia from Thrace in Europe. 
This Site Might Help You. RE: which countries make asia minor? why is it called asia minor? my boyfriend were talking about this and i didn&#39;t want to look foolish i thought turkey, greece and the middle east form part of asia minor. It's called Asia Minor because it is a small part of the continent almost separated from the rest by the Persian Gulf. brainstorm · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. 1. Thumbs down. 1. Comment. Add a comment. Submit. · just now