A warranty may be express or implied, depending on whether the warranty is explicitly provided (typically written) and the jurisdiction. Warranties may also state that a particular fact is true at one point in time or that the fact will be continue into the future (a promissory or continuing warranty). 
Warranties in insurance contracts can be divided into two types: affirmative or promissory. An affirmative warranty is a statement regarding a fact at the time the contract was made. A promissory warranty is a statement about future facts or about facts that will continue to be true throughout the term of the policy. An untruthful affirmative warranty makes an insurance contract void at its inception. A warranty in an insurance policy is a promise by the insured party that statements affecting the validity of the contract are true. Most insurance contracts require the insured to make certain warranties.
An assurance, promise, or guaranty by one party that a particular statement of fact is true and may be relied upon by the other party. Warranties are used in a variety of commercial situations. In many instances a business may voluntarily make a warranty. 11.-3. In the contract of insurance, there are certain warranties which are inducements to the insurer to enter into it. A warranty of this kind is a stipulation or agreement on the part of the insured, in the nature of a condition precedent.
Warranties in insurance contracts can be divided into two types: affirmative or promissory. An affirmative warranty is a statement regarding a fact at the time the contract was made. A promissory warranty is a statement about future facts or about facts that will continue to be true throughout the term of the policy. An untruthful affirmative warranty makes an insurance contract void at its inception. 11.-3. In the contract of insurance, there are certain warranties which are inducements to the insurer to enter into it. A warranty of this kind is a stipulation or agreement on the part of the insured, in the nature of a condition precedent.
An affirmative warranty is a statement regarding a fact at the time the contract was made. A promissory warranty is a statement about future facts or about facts that will continue to be true throughout the term of the policy. An untruthful affirmative warranty makes an insurance contract void at its inception. Insurance. A warranty in an insurance policy is a promise by the insured party that statements affecting the validity of the contract are true. Most insurance contracts require the insured to make certain warranties.
How to justify the nature of warranty is a “promissory warranty” or a “delimiting warranty” in which it is written in the policy as an express warranty. Created Date. After the discussion above, we can see that the assured and the insurer may doubt whether the warranty stated in the policy is a “promissory warranty” or a “delimiting warranty”. It is worth to have detail studies.
Promissory warranty. Promissory warranty – this term applies in the area of Commercial Law, where it refers to an assurance, issued by a manufacturer, and it is stated that the facts listed in the warranty will continue to be the same after issuing the warranty, until the whole term of it. 
Promissory warranty. An assurance that a certain condition, fact, or circumstance will be true for the entire term of a contract. FAQs: 1  Can a policy holder have both paper and electronic policies? 