Testing for all of the most common STDs (HIV, chlamydia, gonorrhea, syphilis, oral and genital herpes, and hepatitis A, B, and C) is the best way to ensure a clean bill of health. If you are unsure about the best time to test for any STD, call our trained counselors at 1-800-456-2323. A. If you are at risk for one STD, you are at risk for all STDs. Our comprehensive 10 Test Panel checks for chlamydia, gonorrhea, oral herpes, genital herpes, HIV-1, HIV-2, hepatitis A, B, & C, and syphilis. Use our personalized STD Test Recommendation Tool to build a test panel that is right for you.
Does anyone know how long it takes for Kaiser Permanente Hospital to do a STD blood check up like HIV? I know for their blood work, it&#39;ll take atleast 24 hours which ull get ur results in 1 day. I once got a STD blood check up done and the results were avaliable the same day..but im not for... 
How long does it take to get STD test results? We get all STD testing results back to you in 24 to 72 hours. How much does STD testing cost? Testing fees are based on laboratory fees that fluctuate regularly also testing fees depend on which test or group of tests you need to have run. We are a same-day STD testing provider. We can get you in to one of our local testing centers within 15 minutes, just call 1-866-898-2889 for assistance.
There are various sexually transmitted diseases that can infect you because of risky sexual intercourse including HIV, syphilis, gonorrhea, herpes, trichomonas and HPV. The type of test and also the type of disease that you are taking a test for determines how long does STD testing take. Some of these do have pathological tests to detect whereas some do not have. The common symptoms are irritation in the genitals, soreness, pain while urinating and discharge from genitals. To be certain about your sexual health after a sexual encounter, STD tests are often a must. But the faster, the better, thus you should know how long STD testing take as it can be a mind-racking experience.
It usually takes about 2 days or so for Chlamydia tests. Some HIV-1 tests (Oraquick) only take about 30 minutes. Source(s): I work in the STD section of my state Health Dept. michael · 7 years ago. In Canada, the public system takes about 2 weeks. And if no news by then, well it is good news because they won't call if you are clean. In a private clinic this is usually in a few days 2-4. Hey chin-up, must not be a cool thing to wonder if you are OK.
Most of them come back within a week. The blood test though: HIV, herpes, and Hepatitis. They come back within two weeks. The doctor or a nurse from his office would call you. If it was positive you would have to wright down all your sexual partners from your last test. So if its been two weeks, your in the clear. 
But most of the STD tests take 24 to 72 hours to show the results while some might take around three months. So how long does STD testing take varies from a day to three months. To be certain about your sexual health after a sexual encounter, STD tests are often a must. But the faster, the better, thus you should know how long STD testing take as it can be a mind-racking experience.
In this case, how long STD testing would take depends on the appearance of the symptoms and then the tests can be carried on. On the other hand the blood tests rely on the antibodies produced inside the body in response to the infection. To be certain about your sexual health after a sexual encounter, STD tests are often a must. But the faster, the better, thus you should know how long STD testing take as it can be a mind-racking experience.
A STD infection may become transmissible because of the delay that often occurs between getting infected and getting the test done. It usually takes about 48 hours to get the results of a STD test. Some tests like the one for syphilis takes about seven to 10 days. HIV test results can be obtained within three days. Chlamydia and gonorrhea test results take about a week. 