1 British English: fume Fumes are the unpleasant and often unhealthy smoke and gases that are produced by fires or by things such as chemicals, fuel, or cooking. Pale mists shimmered in the great vale below: a wide gulf of silver fume, beneath which rolled the cool night-waters of the Anduin.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: fume (Noun). A gas or vapour/vapor that smells strongly or is dangerous to inhale. Fumes are solid particles formed by condensation from the gaseous state, e.g. metal oxides from volatilized metals. They can flocculate and coalesce. Their particle size is between 0.1 and 1 micron.
VINCYCLOPEDIA Fume Fumé blanc is a-made up, name legally accepted as a synonym for wines made From Sauvignon blanc. Grapes Robert mondavi deserves credit for this renaming in an effort to increase the acceptance and popularity Of Sauvignon. blanc 
fume. 1. Often, fumes. any smokelike or vaporous exhalation from matter or substances, esp. of an odorous or harmful nature: tobacco fumes; poisonous fumes of carbon monoxide. 2. an irritable or angry mood: to be in a fume. 3. to emit or exhale, as fumes or vapor. 4. to treat with or expose to fumes
Pouilly-Fume fumé is An appellation'd origine (CONTROLEE) contrôlée aoc for the dry white wine Produced-around-Pouilly, sur loire In the. Nievre nièvre departement département another white wine produced in the same area but with a different Grape-variety-Is. called pouilly sur loire The vineyards of Pouilly-Fume fumé date back to The roman (era fifth) ; century a reference to The latin Name pauliacum super fluvium (Ligerim pauliacum on The River), loire reflecting The roman road which passed through this. territory
The verb FUME has 4 senses: 1. be mad, angry, or furious. 2. emit a cloud of fine particles. 3. treat with fumes, expose to fumes, especially with the aim of disinfecting or eradicating pests. 4. be wet with sweat or blood, as of one's face. Familiarity information: FUME used as a verb is uncommon.
It is a Sauvignon Blanc wine, and I know Blanc means white, and I think Fume means smoke in Spanish and French, but this is Italian I think..I tried to look it up in translator but nothing came up.. It is a Sauvignon Blanc wine, and I know Blanc means white, and I think Fume means smoke in Spanish and French, but this is Italian I think..I tried to...
While I was never curious enough to trace the origins of the use of “fume blanc” on a bottle of wine, I recognized that the literal translation of the word “fume” was probably related to the word for smoke. It is a Sauvignon Blanc wine, and I know Blanc means white, and I think Fume means smoke in Spanish and French, but this is Italian I think..I tried to...
The Fume Blnc is a blend so the name may lend itself to that fact but is not intended to be called a Sauvignon Blanc by definition. Anyway your stomp it the Sauvignon Blanc grape is used for both. I guess the bottles labeled Sauvignon Blac may be a bit more pure and not so much of a blend. It is a Sauvignon Blanc wine, and I know Blanc means white, and I think Fume means smoke in Spanish and French, but this is Italian I think..I tried to...
Pouilly-Fume fumé is An appellation'd origine (CONTROLEE) contrôlée aoc for the dry white wine Produced-around-Pouilly, sur loire In the. nievre nièvre departement département The vineyards of Pouilly-Fume fumé date back to The roman (era fifth) ; century a reference to The latin Name pauliacum super fluvium (Ligerim pauliacum on The River), loire reflecting The roman road which passed through this. territory