Poor Appetite/ Feeling Full Early (Early Satiety). Overview. A poor appetite or feeling full early, also known as early satiety, may be due to cancer treatment or the cancer itself. Early satiety can lead to drastic weight loss if not carefully managed. Appetite stimulants are often used to treat early satiety. 
appetite. the desire for food. It is stimulated by the sight, smell or thought of food and accompanied by the flow of saliva in the mouth and gastric juice in the stomach. Appetite is psychological, dependent on memory and associations, as compared with hunger, which is physiologically aroused by the body's need for food. the appetite for salt displayed by animals, especially ruminants, at pasture. Used in the manangement of cattle on extensive range. See also salting. appetite stimulants. there are several methods available.
appetite. the desire for food, stimulated by the sight, smell, or thought of food and accompanied by the flow of saliva in the mouth and gastric juice in the stomach. The stomach wall also receives an extra blood supply in preparation for its digestive activity. the appetite for salt displayed by animals, especially ruminants, at pasture. Used in the manangement of cattle on extensive range. See also salting. appetite stimulants. there are several methods available.
An orexigenic, or appetite stimulant, is a drug, hormone, or compound that increases appetite. 
Megesterol acetate is commonly used as an appetite stimulant and is FDA approved only for AIDS-associated weight loss. The branded product Megace ES has been heavily promoted in long term care for weight loss despite the lack of indication for this use in the elderly. Managing Unintended Weight Loss. Currently there are no FDA-approved medications for appetite stimulation in the elderly.1 Most studies have failed to demonstrate that the medications commonly used off label to stimulate appetite also decrease morbidity and mortality or improve function or quality of life.
Megestrol acetate, sold as Megace, is a type of progesterone sold as an appetite stimulant and as a palliative treatment for advanced breast and endometrial cancer. Megace has been shown to increase appetite in people with advanced cancer, but it may not help people with appetite loss caused by HIV or other diseases, according to Caresearch. Megace may increase your risk of developing blood clots and inflammation in the veins called thromboembolitis.
Summary Three appetite stimulant agents are currently approved for use in the US: megestrol, oxandrolone and dronabinol. Megestrol is a progesterone available as an oral tablet or suspension indicated in the treatment of anorexia, cachexia, or unexplained significant weight loss in patients with AIDS. Pharmacological and non-pharmacologic appetite stimulants may also be used to treat the lack of appetite. Pharmacotherapy treatment options include some antidepressants, antihistamines and anticonvulsants, and use of various corticosteroids, cannabinoids, anabolic steroids and megestrol.
Symptom and description. Loss of appetite is a loss of the desire to eat. Not eating can lead to weight loss. Weight loss can cause weakness and fatigue, which affect your ability to perform normal activities. Proper nutrition also helps your body prevent and fight infection. Weight loss or lack of appetite may be due to the cancer or sometimes to treatments for the cancer.