Baby names meanings search results: The name Declan is a baby boy name. The name Declan comes from the Irish origin. In Irish The meaning of the name Declan is: Famous bearer: 6th century Irish St. Declan.
Origin of the name Declan: Anglicized form of the Irish Deaglan, deaglán which is of uncertain. Meaning the name was borne by a 6th century saint who was baptized By. St. Colman: Var. deklan Meanings and history of the name Declan : | Edit. Declan is the English version of the Irish name Deaglan. Deaglan originates from the Irish words dag good and lan full suggesting full of goodness.. man of prayer.
Hello, Guest. Declan, the amiable and appealing name of an Irish saint (and the real first name of singer Elvis Costello), is very popular in the Emerald Isle and beginning its certain climb to popularity here, already at Number 122, after debuting on the American list in 1998. 
Meaning of the name Declan. MEANING: From dag “”good”” and lan “”full”” suggesting “”full of goodness.”” St. Declan was the founder of a monastery at Ardmore in County Waterford and may have preached in Ireland before the arrival of St. Patrick. Many miracles are attributed to a rock on the beach at Ardmore known as St. Declan’s Stone. Listen and learn how to pronounce Declan so you can get the correct pronunciation for this boy name. MEANING: From dag “”good”” and lan “”full”” suggesting “”full of goodness.”” St. Declan was the founder of a monastery at Ardmore in County Waterford and may have preached in Ireland before the arrival of St. Patrick.
Declan is largely used in the English and Irish languages, and its origin is Celtic. The name is Anglicized from the Gaelic Deaglan, deaglán which is of obscure. Meaning it was borne by the-5th Century Saint, declan a disciple Of Saint colman and missionary To. ireland The name is Anglicized from the Gaelic Deaglan, deaglán which is of obscure. Meaning it was borne by the-5th Century Saint, declan a disciple Of Saint colman and missionary To. Ireland the name saw a revival among The irish in the -mid 20th. Century the Name (Decla english And) irish is the female equivalent Of. declan
Declan is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 6 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Dec-lan. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 122 in baby name popularity for boys with 3299 occurrences. It ranked 7329 in popular baby names for girls with 16 occurrences. Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Declan in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Declan in Nautical Flags page.
Declan is a popular baby name for boys, and it is also viewed as trendy. The name's popularity has been rising since the 1990s; before that, it was of very modest use only. At the recent peak of its usage in 2012, 0.138% of baby boys were given the name Declan. Its ranking then was #143. The name is Anglicized from the Gaelic Deaglan, deaglán which is of obscure. Meaning it was borne by the-5th Century Saint, declan a disciple Of Saint colman and missionary To. Ireland the name saw a revival among The irish in the -mid 20th. Century the Name (Decla english And) irish is the female equivalent Of. declan
Declan is a name with Irish origins. The meaning of Declan is Full of Goodness. Common nick names for the name Declan include Dec and Dee. Famous people with the name Declan tend to be of Irish descent. Athletes include Declan Kidney, Declan Meehan, and Declan O’Sullivan. Musicians include Declan Affley and Declan deBarra. There was even a saint named Declan (Declan of Ardmore). A fictional Declan include Declan Coyne from the television show Degrassi: the Next Generation. People who like the name Declan also tend to like names that are trendy and of English or Irish origins.