IndochinaTourGuide with its over 10-year insider experience is your best getaway to start a perfect trip in Asia – Cambodia, Myanmar, Vietnam, Thailand, Laos & Bhutan ... From matured tour packages to tailor-make private itineraries, as well as one-stop service, all are ready for your beautiful travel days in Asia. 
Indochina, or French Indochina, was a federation of French colonies and protectorates. It consisted of Cochin China, Tonkin, Annam (all of which now form Vietnam), Laos and the Khmer Republic (now Cambodia). France started assuming sovereignty after the Franco-Chinese War (1884–1885). The federation lasted until 1954. The capital was Hanoi.
Laos, officially known as the Lao People's Democratic Republic (Lao PDR), is one of the poorest nations in Southeast Asia. A mountainous and landlocked country, Laos shares borders with Vietnam to the east, Cambodia to the south, Thailand to the west, and Myanmar and China to the north. Laos is more expensive than Thailand and Cambodia, as most goods, petrol & food is imported from Thailand and Vietnam. Also, some people, and especially tuk tuk drivers, consider USD1 as being equivalent to 10,000 kip, whereas the official exchange rate is better.
When it comes to personal safety, Laos is at the opposite end of the scale from Cambodia. History of Cambodia is riddled with violence and other than a few rarities, the country remains the epitome of violence to this day. The history of Laos on the other hand is the history of peace and other than a few rarities, the nation remains peaceful to this day.
After Cambodia, Laos was a breath of fresh air that made me question (again) why I had wasted so much of my time and money on that country. I felt the same breath of fresh air when I left Cambodia for Vietnam, and when I crossed over through Cambodia to Thailand. History of Cambodia is riddled with violence and other than a few rarities, the country remains the epitome of violence to this day. The history of Laos on the other hand is the history of peace and other than a few rarities, the nation remains peaceful
Having arrived in Laos from Cambodia, a country where violence and scam are part of everyday life, entering into a society where everyday life is highlighted by peace and friendliness felt like when the blood starts flowing again into a limb that was choked off by a tight rope. History of Cambodia is riddled with violence and other than a few rarities, the country remains the epitome of violence to this day. The history of Laos on the other hand is the history of peace and other than a few rarities, the nation remains peaceful
HOT DEALS. Book a holiday with Asianventure Tours, you’ll not only get an incredible trip away but you’ll make a huge saving into the bargain. With a huge range of options in Vietnam, Cambodia,Laos, Thailand, Myanmar and China, you can make sure that your holiday is exactly the way you want it to be. Get the most out of our all-inclusive packages or enjoy a more independent trip with our self-catering options. 
Welcome to the Thailand-Laos-Cambodia Brotherhood. Our organization is dedicated to the valiant members of all service branches who served in this theater before, during and after the Vietnam War. Your service and sacrifice made more of a difference than you will ever know. 
Return to Bangkok for a few days for your flight back home. Thousands of tourists do this every year. Cambodia and Laos is easy to reach from Thailand. Even overland. Your passport determines if you need a visa for Thailand or not. From the US, most of Europe, Australia, etc. no prior visa for Thailand. For most Westerners you can enter Thailand with just a passport and get a free Visa Exemption stamp good for 30 days. For Laos and Cambodia you will have to pay for a visa. 
Best Answer: - The people: Thailand is very welcoming. Laos and Vietnam are cool too. There's more poverty and danger in Cambodia, but you should have no problems if you don't go drinking in seedy bars or go walking down a dark street in Phnom Penh late at night. There is a risk of theft everywhere, but it won't be confrontational. Keep an eye on your valuables.