Recall that in an ionic bond, there is a TRANSFER of electrons. Metals, in general, tend to LOSE their electrons when they form bonds. Nonmetals, on the other hand, tend to GAIN electrons when they form bonds. Mg then gives off its 2 electrons to 2 Cl atoms. Therefore, an ionic bond is formed. 
Overview. Magnesium is the second element in Group 2 (IIA) of the periodic table a chart that shows how chemical elements are related to each other. The elements in Group 2 are known as the alkaline earth elements. Other elements in that group include beryllium, calcium, strontium, barium, and radium. Magnesium also combines easily with many non-metals, including nitrogen, sulfur, phosphorus, chlorine, fluorine, bromine, and iodine. It also reacts readily with a number of compounds, such as carbon monoxide (CO), carbon dioxide (CO 2, sulfur dioxide (SO 2, and nitric oxide (NO).
The bonding in magnesium metal is known as metallic bond. Metallic bonding is the electromagnetic interaction between delocalized electrons and metallic nuclei within metals. The electrons and the positive ions in the metal have a strong attractive force between them. Therefore metals often have high melting or boiling points. The principle is similar to that of ionic bonds. Magnesium can also do ionic and covalent bonding. e.g. MgO (Magnesium oxide), is an example for ionic bonding and MgCl (Magnesium Chloride), is an example for covalent bonding.
Since Magnesium has two extra electrons it bonds with elements that could use them, such as chlorine. report this answer. Updated on Sunday, February 05 2012 at 02:16PM EST. Source: www.chem4kids.com/... 
In chemistry, a valence electron is an electron that is associated with an atom, and that can participate in the formation of a chemical bond; in a single covalent bond, both atoms in the bond contribute one valence electron in order to form a shared pair. The presence of valence electrons can determine the element's chemical properties and whether it may bond with other elements: For a main group element, a valence electron can only be in the outermost electron shell. In a transition metal, a valence electron can also be in an inner shell.
In addition, we can also look at the two elements on the periodic table and notice that chlorine is a non-metal with a charge of -1 and magnesium is a metal with a charge of +2. This means that the two combine to form an ionic bond, specifically giving us the compound MgCl2. 2. Magnesium forms a positive ion (cation) with a 2+ charge and chlorine forms a negative ion (anion) with a 1- charge. So two chlorine anions form an ionic bond with one magnesium cation for form MgCl2, a neutral chemical compound.
Magnesium is a metal (group 2/alkaline earth metals), while chlorine is a nonmetal (group 7/halogen). Therefore, because magnesium and chlorine do not share electrons, they do not form a covalent bond. 2) Ionic bonds are very polar because of the difference in electronegativity between magnesium and chlorine. Magnesium forms a positive ion (cation) with a 2+ charge and chlorine forms a negative ion (anion) with a 1- charge. So two chlorine anions form an ionic bond with one magnesium cation for form MgCl2, a neutral chemical compound.
No because they both are positively charged ions. Ionic bonds form between an ion with a positive charge and one with a negative charge (a metal and a nonmetal). This happens … because opposite charges attract, and two positive charges won't bond together. Magnesium can also do ionic and covalent bonding. e.g. MgO (Magnesium oxide), is an example for ionic bonding and MgCl (Magnesium Chloride), is an example for
(Answer #1). 1) Magnesium and chlorine form an ionic bond. Covalent bonds are formed when two or more atoms share electrons between them. Ionic bonds are when atoms gain or lose electrons to become charged species (ions) that share an electrostatic interaction called an ionic bond. Magnesium forms a positive ion (cation) with a 2+ charge and chlorine forms a negative ion (anion) with a 1- charge. So two chlorine anions form an ionic bond with one magnesium cation for form MgCl2, a neutral chemical compound.