For instance, results from a rapid strep test are available within 10 to 15 minutes, and results from a throat culture may take 1 to 2 days. A throat culture is more accurate. 1  A negative rapid strep test result can mean there are no strep bacteria present. 2  If the rapid strep test result is positive, a throat culture isn't needed. Your doctor may confirm the results of the rapid strep test with a throat culture. Current treatment guidelines recommend that your doctor confirm strep throat with a lab test, such as a throat culture, and not diagnose strep throat just from your symptoms.
The difference between the rapid and regular strep test is that the regular test allows more of the bacteria to grow out of the reagent in a 24 hour or longer period. I can't remember how long the regular test takes. I know it is at least 18 hours tho. The rapid test is not very reliable in my opinion. 
Normal. A normal or negative test means that strep bacteria may not be present. 1  Sometimes, negative results are wrong. 2  This means that you may have a negative rapid strep test result and still have strep throat. 3  A throat culture may be done if the rapid strep test result is negative. Rapid Strep Test for Strep Throat. Guide. For a rapid strep test, the throat and tonsils are swabbed to collect bacteria from the infected area for testing. The bacteria are analyzed to see whether Group A strep (streptococcal) bacteria are causing the sore throat.
It may help to discuss with your doctor the advantages and disadvantages of each test. For instance, results from a rapid strep test are available within 10 to 15 minutes, and results from a throat culture may take 1 to 2 days. A throat culture is more accurate. 1  A negative rapid strep test result can mean there are no strep bacteria present. 
Since they naturally live in the gastrointestinal tract, the bacteria can come back after taking antibiotics. A woman may test positive at certain times and negative at others. This is why it is important for all pregnant women to be tested for group B strep between 35 to 37 weeks of every pregnancy. Group B streptococcus (GBS) is a type of bacterial infection that can be found in a pregnant woman’s vagina or rectum. This bacteria is normally found in the vagina and/or rectum of about 25% of all healthy, adult women. Women who test positive for GBS are said to be colonized.
1 If the rapid strep test result is negative but strep throat is still suspected, your doctor may order a throat culture to verify the results. 2  If the rapid strep test result is positive, a throat culture isn't needed. 3  Antibiotic treatment can be started right away. Your doctor may confirm the results of the rapid strep test with a throat culture. Current treatment guidelines recommend that your doctor confirm strep throat with a lab test, such as a throat culture, and not diagnose strep throat just from your symptoms.
If the test is positive, your healthcare professional can prescribe antibiotics. If the strep test is negative, but your clinician still strongly suspects you have this infection, then they can take a throat culture swab to test for the bacteria. 
A positive rapid strep test indicates the presence of group A streptococci, the bacteria that cause strep throat. A negative rapid test indicates that the affected person probably does not have strep throat, but a throat culture may be performed for confirmation, especially among children and adolescents. If the throat culture is positive for group A streptococci, then the person tested does have strep throat. A rapid strep test, also known as a rapid antigen detection test (RADT), can detect group A strep antigens. Results are available in 10-20 minutes. Recently, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved molecular tests that can detect genetic material from group A strep bacteria in throat swab specimens in less than 8 minutes
About 25% of pregnant women carry group B strep in the rectum or vagina. Those women are considered group B strep positive. A woman may test positive at certain times and not at others. That’s why it’s important for all pregnant women to be tested for group B strep between 35 to 37 weeks of every pregnancy. A pregnant woman who tests positive for group B strep and gets antibiotics during labor can feel confident knowing that she has only a 1 in 4,000 chance of delivering a baby with group B strep disease.