Rogaška Slatina (German: Rohitsch-Sauerbrunn) is a town in eastern Slovenia. It is the largest settlement and the centre of the Municipality of Rogaška Slatina. It is known for its curative mineral water, spa, and crystal glass. Another church, next to the village of Prnek, is dedicated to the Holy Trinity. It also belongs to the Parish of Rogaška Slatina. It was built in the 17th century and contains a gold-plated altar dating to between 1650 and 1675.
The Bowl Company believes in the stunning beauty of Rogaska products! Steklarna Rogaška is one of the leading producers of crystal ware in the world and the Rogaška trademark is at the highest level in terms of price, quality and design innovation in its branch of industry. Rogaška crystal and glass products meet the design balance between functionality and aesthetics.
Donat Mg is a natural mineral water from the springs of Rogaška Slatina in Slovenia. It has a high content of magnesium. Donat Mg was first commercially available in 1908, but the history of Rogaška Slatina springs is much older. Excavation in the area confirmed Celtic and Roman settlements, indicating that the spring was in use in ancient times.
Rogaska. Best Crystal is an authorized Rogaska Crystal® retailer. Rogaska Crystal images and Rogaska Crystal collection, pattern and product names are copyrights and trademarks of Rogaska Crystal. Rogaska Crystal is manufactured at Steklarna Rogaska Glassworks in Slovenia and Rogaska U.S. is headquartered in New York, New York. 
The Rogaška Slatina area was inhabited in antiquity, and a Roman road led to the settlement. A document from the Archbishopric of Salzburg dating from 1141 mentions a Roman stone next to a spring in the settlement. Another church, next to the village of Prnek, is dedicated to the Holy Trinity. It also belongs to the Parish of Rogaška Slatina. It was built in the 17th century and contains a gold-plated altar dating to between 1650 and 1675.
Rogaška Slatina is a little town in a pleasant valley in the middle of the Obsotelje region. Despite its small size it is famous for several world-renowned products and services. Tradition. The glassworks in Rogaška Slatina is a symbol of tradition and the finest quality. The town's long glassmaking tradition is a guarantee that the glassmakers make skilful use of the raw materials that nature provides to create magically transparent glass, full of light, purity and sparkling beauty.
History of Miller-Rogaska Crystal. The founding mission of Miller-Rogaska Crystal is to offer excellent quality and design at an exceptional value. John Miller founded Miller-Rogaska Crystal in 1984. Prior to this venture, John served as the founding president of Waterford USA for nearly twenty-five years. John Miller's inspiration for establishing the company came after visiting the Rogaska factory in what was, at the time, Yugoslavia. The factory, located in the spa village of Rogaska, Slovenia, had been producing full lead, handmade crystal for over 75 years.