Education General-As a Pediatrician, you will ALWAYS be learning! After high school, you need 4 years of undergraduate courses at a college or university (which will get you a BS, BA, or other Bachelor's degree). After completing college, you will need to attend 4 years of Medical School (which will get you an MD or DO degree). After this, you are a general doctor. Most of the time, these new doctors go on to learn a specialty in medicine, such as pediatrics.
Admission to medical or osteopathic school requires a bachelor's degree from a recognized four-year college. Candidates for medical school must complete a full year of coursework in each of the following subjects: biology, general chemistry, organic chemistry, physics, mathematics and English. During their junior year, they take the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) before applying to medical colleges. A student who wishes to become a pediatrician does not have to take any specific courses during his four years of medical or osteopathic school
In order to become a pediatrician, you will need to complete a 4-year college degree prior to entering medical school. You will then spend four years working toward a Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) or Doctor of Osteopathy (D.O.) degree. Research what it takes to become a pediatrician. Learn about job duties, job outlook, education and licensing requirements to find out if this is the career for you. Schools offering Health Science degrees can also be found in these popular choices.
It takes 4 years of undergraduate education, 4 years of medical school, and 3 years of pediatric residency to become a general pediatrician, totaling at least 11 years. Further, most fellowship subspecialties last 3 years, increasing the time spent in training to about 14 years overall. 
A pediatrician is a medical doctor who has obtained specific training in medical care and treatment of children and adolescents. Like any physician, a pediatrician must earn a doctor of medicine (M.D.) or doctor of osteopathic medicine (D.O.) degree from a recognized medical or osteopathic school. Candidates for medical school must complete a full year of coursework in each of the following subjects: biology, general chemistry, organic chemistry, physics, mathematics and English. During their junior year, they take the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) before applying to medical colleges.
Essential Information. Pediatricians follow the same medical training regime as other doctors. Many complete bachelor's degree programs and then go on to pursue medical degrees from an accredited medical school. Most pediatricians obtain a Doctor of Medicine (M.D.). However, individuals with a Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.) may also practice general pediatrics in primary care or family practice offices. Both require four years of medical school and 3-8 years of internships and residencies. Upon graduation, pediatricians must pass the U.S. Medical Licensing Examination (USMLE) in order to practice as physicians. Pediatricians may choose between pursuing an M.D. degree program or a D.O. degree program.
To become a pediatrician, you'll need training in general medicine throughout most of your undergraduate and graduate education. Specialization in pediatric healthcare begins during your residency. To be accepted into a medical school program, you must take the Medical College Admission Test (MCAT) and submit transcripts and letters of recommendation to the college. Many schools also have an interview process.
The requirements to become a pediatrician vary a great deal from country to country, but usually center on lengthy education and extensive hands-on training. 