THE PROKARYOTIC CELL: BACTERIA. 1. There are three basic shapes of bacteria: coccus, bacillus, and spiral. 2. Based on planes of division, the coccus shape can appear in several distinct arrangements: diplococcus, streptococcus, tetrad, sarcina, and staphylococcus. Fundamental Statements for this Learning Object: 1. There are three basic shapes of bacteria: coccus, bacillus, and spiral. 2. Based on planes of division, the coccus shape can appear in several distinct arrangements: diplococcus, streptococcus, tetrad, sarcina, and staphylococcus. 3.
For example, bacillus-shaped bacteria that have an inactivated MreB gene become coccoid shaped, and coccus-shaped bacteria naturally lack the MreB gene. Most bacteria come in one of three basic shapes: coccus, rod or bacillus, and spiral. a. Division in one plane produces either a diplococcus or streptococcus arrangement. diplococcus: cocci arranged in pairs (see Fig. Fundamental Statements for this Learning Object: 1. There are three basic shapes of bacteria: coccus, bacillus, and spiral. 2. Based on planes of division, the coccus shape can appear in several distinct arrangements: diplococcus, streptococcus, tetrad, sarcina, and staphylococcus. 3.
Staphylococcus bacteria. Coccus (plural cocci) is a term used to describe any bacterium that has a spherical, ovoid, or generally round shape. It is one of the three distinct bacterial shapes, the other two being bacillus (rod-shaped) and spiral-shaped cells. Coccus is an English loanword of a Neolatin noun, which in turn stems from the Greek masculine noun kokkos (κόκκος) meaning berry
The three main shapes of bacteria are; Bacillus = rod shaped bacteria Coccus = round shaped bacteria Spirillia = spiral shaped bacteria All bacteria are of one of thes … e general shapes. 
The Size, Shape, And Arrangement Of Bacterial Cells. Most bacteria are 0.2 um in diameter and 2-8 um in length. The three basic bacterial shapes are coccus (spherical), bacillus (rod-shaped), and spiral (twisted), however pleomorphic bacteria can assume several shapes. Arrangement of cocci. Cocci may be oval, elongated, or flattened on one side