Paneer Jalfrezi is a colorful, healthy Indian Vegetarian dish and a classic among paneer recipes. A low calorie paneer dish that has contrasting textures with melt in the mouth soft paneer and the bell peppers provide a flavorful crunch. It makes for a wonderful filling with wraps and a good side dish with rotis. Add the paneer pieces and tomato pieces and mix well. Sprinkle 3-4 tbsps of water and mix well. Cook for 4-5 mts on medium high flame tossing the contents. Finally add garam masala and lemon juice
Place a large nonstick skillet over medium heat, and add the paneer as the pan warms. In a couple of minutes give the pan a toss; each piece of paneer should be browned on one side. Fry another minute or so, and then remove the paneer from the pan onto a plate. Add the remaining 1 1/2 tablespoons oil to the pan. 
Paneer Bhurji with Kasuri Methi. Paneer crumbled and cooked with cashew nuts, tomato, kasuri methi and a variety of spices. Paneer in White Gravy. Here's a creamy paneer dish that you just can't get enough of! Paneer cubes cooked in rich gravy made with cashew nuts, khoya, cream, curd and coconut. Tomato Paneer. A low fat paneer recipe that is worth every calorie!
chole paneer recipe, how to make punjabi paneer chole recipe. chole paneer recipe with step by step photos – spicy punjabi curry made with cottage cheese and white chickpeas. punjabis love their chole, rajma, dal makhani, bread pakora and parathas. methi malai paneer recipe, how to make methi malai paneer recipe. methi malai paneer recipe with step by step photos – sharing one more restaurant style recipe of methi malai paneer. methi or fresh fenugreek leaves is often cooked at home.
achari paneer recipe, how to make achari paneer| paneer recipes. achari paneer recipe with step by step photos – robust flavored paneer gravy made with achari masala or pickling spices. paneer gravies are often made at home. methi malai paneer recipe, how to make methi malai paneer recipe. methi malai paneer recipe with step by step photos – sharing one more restaurant style recipe of methi malai paneer. methi or fresh fenugreek leaves is often cooked at home.
July 30, 2014 Gluten Free, Paneer (Indian Cheese), Party Recipes, Vegetables Curry / Gravy Cashew Gravy, Paneer Butter Masala, Paneer curry, party, Punjabi Manjula Jain. Paneer Makhani is a popular Punjabi dish. Paneer (Indian cheese) simmered in rich creamy tomato gravy makes a very delicious dish. This is simple and easy recipe to make. Serve Paneer Makhani with any Indian flat bread or over rice. 
Paneer Recipes. Paneer is a type of soft, crumbly cheese native to India, although it is used in some parts of the Middle East as well. It is one of the most common cheeses used in Indian cuisine, and it has a simple, fresh, versatile flavor which makes it highly useful in an assortment of recipes.
paneer do pyaza recipe, how to make paneer do pyaza recipe. paneer do pyaza recipe with step by step photos – a rich mughlai dish of succulent cottage cheese and plenty of onions in a creamy gravy. do pyaza means double the […]. methi malai paneer recipe, how to make methi malai paneer recipe. methi malai paneer recipe with step by step photos – sharing one more restaurant style recipe of methi malai paneer. methi or fresh fenugreek leaves is often cooked at home.
Paneer Jalfrezi is a tasty Indian vegetarian dish that goes well with wraps or rotis. Like most Paneer recipes, its healthy, simple, quick and flavorful. Add the paneer pieces and tomato pieces and mix well. Sprinkle 3-4 tbsps of water and mix well. Cook for 4-5 mts on medium high flame tossing the contents. Finally add garam masala and lemon juice
1 Add the paneer cubes (paneer cubes should be kept immersed in hot water till use) and crush the kasoori methi within you palms to powder it and add it to it. 2  Add 1/2 cup water and mix well. 3  Cook till the masala coats paneer well and the gravy is thick almost dry. 