Usage of the flag is governed by the Flag Code of India and other laws relating to the national emblems. The original code prohibited use of the flag by private citizens except on national days such as the Independence day and the Republic Day. The flag was subsequently retained as that of the Republic of India. In India, the term  tricolour  (Hindi: तिरंगा , Tiraṅgā) almost always refers to the Indian national flag. The flag is based on the Swaraj flag, a flag of the Indian National Congress designed by Pingali Venkayya
Country Flag Color Meanings. A flag in simple words is a symbolic representation of ones country. Every flag belonging to a country has a history meaning associated. Read on to know more about meaning of flags of different countries like America, Australia, German, Indian etc. The Indian Flag. 1  The Indian flag broadly depicts three colors in layers; the uppermost is the saffron, middle is white and the lowermost is the green color. 2  The saffron color signifies the sense of patriotism, white signifies purity and peace while green signifies the agricultural richness of the country.
In India, the term tricolour refers to the Indian national flag. The National flag of India is a horizontal tricolor of deep saffron (kesari) at the top, white in the middle and dark green at the bottom in equal proportion. The ratio of width of the flag to its length is two to three. In the centre of the white band is a navy blue wheel which represents the chakra.
The flag of India -- called the Tiranga, meaning tricolor -- has three horizontal bars of saffron, white and green, and is embossed in the middle with a blue wheel. Symbols. The circular symbol in the center of the flag, the Ashoka chakra, is the wheel of the dharma, the cosmic law that upholds the order of the universe. At the crux of their faiths, Buddhism, Hinduism, Jainism and Sikhism all subscribe to the concept of the dharma
The Flag of India. The Flag of India has represented its nation proudly. The development and the modification of the India flag coincides directly with modern India history, but the India Flag also has an exciting history behind it. It tells the story of a nations hard work to gain equality, independence and unity for its people. The India flag sports three different colored horizontal rectangles, one on top of the other, and a very important symbol called the Ashoka Chakra is displayed directly in its center.
India Flag. The National flag of India (affectionately called तिरंगा meaning 'tricolour') has three equal horizontal bands-the top panel is India saffron (Kesari), the bottom panel is India green and white middle band bearing at its centre the design of Ashoka Chakra in navy blue colour with 24 equally spaced spokes.
A flag known as 'Swaraj flag' was widely used in the final stages of Indian independence movement. It became the official flag of Congress at the 1931 meeting. To select a flag for independent India, on 23 June 1947, the Constituent Assembly set up an ad hoc committee headed by Rajendra Prasad. The National flag of India (affectionately called तिरंगा meaning 'tricolour') has three equal horizontal bands-the top panel is India saffron (Kesari), the bottom panel is India green and white middle band bearing at its centre the design of Ashoka Chakra in navy blue colour with 24 equally spaced spokes.
The National Flag of India is a horizontal rectangular tricolour of deep saffron, white and India green; with the Ashoka Chakra, a 24-spoke wheel, in navy blue at its centre. The flag was subsequently retained as that of the Republic of India. In India, the term  tricolour  (Hindi: तिरंगा , Tiraṅgā) almost always refers to the Indian national flag. The flag is based on the Swaraj flag, a flag of the Indian National Congress designed by Pingali Venkayya