1 The majority of domestic newborn adoptions cost between $20,000 and $40,000, while a strong majority of international adoptions cost more than $35,000. 2  U.S. foster adoption is the least expensive adoption route, by a significant margin. 3  69% of survey respondents reported less than $1,000 in expenses. Highlights of the adoption cost survey: 1  The majority of domestic newborn adoptions cost between $20,000 and $40,000, while a strong majority of international adoptions cost more than $35,000. 2  U.S. foster adoption is the least expensive adoption route, by a significant margin
The truth is that most families successfully adopt within two years of beginning the process. The cost of a domestic adoption varies widely, from under $15,000 to more than $50,000. According to surveys conducted annually by Adoptive Families, the median total cost of a domestic adoption is $30,000 to $45,000, which tends to be considerably less than that of a typical international adoption. 
Cost. The difference in cost between international adoption and domestic adoption is a common misconception that many adoptive families share. Many mistakenly believe that international adoption costs far less than domestic adoption; however, this is not true. Both types of adoption have similar total costs, typically ranging from around $25,000 to $50,000, but they both have their own unique costs. One of the first dilemmas families face is whether to pursue domestic adoption or international adoption. There are many factors adoptive parents must consider: cost, wait time, children available, medical and social history and legal concerns.
Fees for intercountry adoption range from $7,000 to $25,000, including agency fees, dossier and immigration processing fees, and court costs. However, there may be additional costs for the following items which are usually not included in the fees: 1  Child foster care (usually in South and Central American adoptions). Parents adopting a U.S. child with special needs qualify for a $6,000 tax credit. The tax credit for intercountry adoptions and for domestic non-special-needs adoptions will expire in 2002. At the Website, of the Internal Revenue Service, you will find information about tax rules and changes to those rules.
Licensed private agencies charge fees ranging from $4,000 to $30,000, which includes the costs for birth parent counseling, adoptive parent home study and preparation, child's birth expenses, post-placement supervision until the adoption is finalized, and a portion of agency costs for overhead and operating expenses. Parents adopting a U.S. child with special needs qualify for a $6,000 tax credit. The tax credit for intercountry adoptions and for domestic non-special-needs adoptions will expire in 2002. At the Website, of the Internal Revenue Service, you will find information about tax rules and changes to those rules.
In domestic adoptions, this fee covers the attorney's interstate fees, the ending of the biological parents' rights, the preparation and finalization of adoption papers, allowable legal expenses incurred by the biological mother and father, and other needed legal services provided by attorneys. It is not that there are no costs in these types of adoption. In fact, an analysis was done in 2004 determined that the actual costs involved in a state foster-care adoption was approximately $35,000 in 2004 dollars.
In every domestic adoption the fees involved can vary and they can have a large range. All too often the adoption agencies, adoption facilitators, and attorneys do not outline all the costs ahead of time and that means you could spend much more than you originally planned. It is not that there are no costs in these types of adoption. In fact, an analysis was done in 2004 determined that the actual costs involved in a state foster-care adoption was approximately $35,000 in 2004 dollars.
Domestic adoption. For those looking to adopt a baby but who don't want to fly around the world to adopt one, private domestic adoption is a comparable and sometimes cheaper option, with costs ranging from $20,000 to $30,000. The time it takes from start to finish can be shorter, too -- around a year. The only possible out-of-pocket expense is the cost of the home study, which runs between $300 and $500 for foster care adoptions. If the state agency doesn't waive the fee, it's typically reimbursed after the adoption is completed, according to the U.S. Department of Health & Human Services.