Enter the amount to be converted in the box to the left of the currency and press the convert button. To show Dominican Pesos and just one other currency click on any other currency. The Dominican Peso is the currency in Dominican Republic (DO, DOM). The symbol for DOP can be written RD$, and ₱. The Dominican Peso is divided into 100 centavos. The exchange rate for the Dominican Peso was last updated on October 8, 2015 from Bloomberg. The DOP conversion factor has 4 significant digits
This Dominican Peso and United States Dollar convertor is up to date with exchange rates from October 15, 2015. Enter the amount to be converted in the box to the left of Dominican Peso. Use Swap currencies to make United States Dollar the default currency. The exchange rate for the Dominican Peso was last updated on October 14, 2015 from Bloomberg. The exchange rate for the United States Dollar was last updated on October 14, 2015 from The International Monetary Fund. The DOP conversion factor has 4 significant digits. The USD conversion factor has 6
You are here: Home » rates » US Dollar » Convert Dollars to Dominican Peso | USD to DOP. On this page convert USD to DOP using live currency rates as of 08/10/2015 19:04. 
Here how the new notes look like. The US Dollar is now around 44-45 DOP). Currency Name: Dominican Peso Currency Code: DOP. Being Punta Cana located in the beautiful Dominican Republic, the local official currency is the Dominican Peso (DOP) . Its value fluctuates between 39-44 pesos per USD and 48-53 pesos per Euro. 
Dominican Republic, Peso. The Dominican Peso is the currency of Dominican Republic. Our currency rankings show that the most popular Dominican Republic Peso exchange rate is the USD to DOP rate. The currency code for Pesos is DOP, and the currency symbol is RD$. Below, you'll find Dominican Peso rates and a currency converter. 
Most people do not tip taxi drivers, however if you feel so inclined for good service, a tip will certainly be appreciated. Dominican Republic's currency is the Dominican Peso, DOP. It might be possible that Canadian dollars are accepted, but I suggest to use US dollars (USD), as they are widely accepted. 
The Dominican peso is the currency of the Dominican Republic (Spanish: Republica República). Dominicana its symbol  $ , is WITH$ rd used when distinction from other (pesos or) dollars is; required ITS iso 4217 code IS. Dop each peso is divided into 100 (centavos), cents for which ¢ the symbol is. used From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Dominican peso is the currency of the Dominican Republic (Spanish: Republica República). Dominicana its symbol  $ , is WITH$ rd used when distinction from other (pesos or) dollars is; required ITS iso 4217 code IS. dop
The symbol for DOP can be written RD$, and ₱. The symbol for USD can be written $. The Dominican Peso is divided into 100 centavos. The United States Dollar is divided into 100 cents. The exchange rate for the Dominican Peso was last updated on October 14, 2015 from Bloomberg. The exchange rate for the United States Dollar was last updated on October 14, 2015 from The International Monetary Fund. The DOP conversion factor has 4 significant digits. The USD conversion factor has 6 significant digits.
US Dollar Dominican Peso and historical quotes USD (United States) DOP (Dominican Republic). 