Covalent bonds are one of the 3 main types of intramolecular forces, along with ionic bonds and metallic bonds. Covalent bonds are the result of atoms sharing their valence electrons. Covalent bonds can be polar or nonpolar, depending on the electronegativies of the atoms involved in the bond. 
Answer: A molecule or compound is made when two or more atoms form a chemical bond, linking them together. The two types of bonds are ionic bonds and covalent bonds. In an ionic bond, the atoms are bound together by the attraction between oppositely-charged ions. For example, sodium and chloride form an ionic bond, to make NaCl, or table salt. In a covalent bond, the atoms are bound by shared electrons. If the electron is shared equally between the atoms forming a covalent bond, then the bond is said to be nonpolar. Usually, an electron is more attracted to one atom than to another, forming a polar covalent bond. For example, the atoms in water, H 2 O, are held together by polar covalent bonds.
Covalent chemical bonds involve the sharing of a pair of valence electrons by two atoms, in contrast to the transfer of electrons in ionic bonds. Chemical Bonding. Chemical compounds are formed by the joining of two or more atoms. A stable compound occurs when the total energy of the combination has lower energy than the separated atoms. The bound state implies a net attractive force between the atoms ...
Covalent bonding includes many kinds of interactions, including σ-bonding, π-bonding, metal-to-metal bonding, agostic interactions, bent bonds, and three-center two-electron bonds. The term covalent bond dates from 1939. A double bond between two given atoms consists of one sigma and one pi bond, and a triple bond is one sigma and two pi bonds. Covalent bonds are also affected by the electronegativity of the connected atoms which determines the chemical polarity of the bond.
A covalent bond forming H 2 (right) where two hydrogen atoms share the two electrons. A covalent bond is a chemical bond that involves the sharing of electron pairs between atoms. A double bond between two given atoms consists of one sigma and one pi bond, and a triple bond is one sigma and two pi bonds. Covalent bonds are also affected by the electronegativity of the connected atoms which determines the chemical polarity of the bond.
a chemical bond. The two extreme cases of chemical bonds are: Covalent bond: bond in which one or more pairs of electrons are shared by two atoms. Ionic bond: bond in which one or more electrons from one atom are removed and attached to another atom, resulting in positive and negative ions which attract each other. Other types of bonds include metallic bonds and hydrogen bonding. Chemical Bonding. Chemical compounds are formed by the joining of two or more atoms. A stable compound occurs when the total energy of the combination has lower energy than the separated atoms. The bound state implies a net attractive force between the atoms ...
Share. Covalent Bond Definition: A covalent bond is a chemical link between two atoms in which electrons are shared between them. Examples: There is a covalent bond between the oxygen and each hydrogen in a water molecule (H 2 O). Each of the covalent bonds contains two electrons-one from a hydrogen atom and one from the oxygen atom. Both atoms share the electrons. Return to the Chemistry Glossary Index
A chemical bond is an attraction between atoms that allows the formation of chemical substances that contain two or more atoms. The bond is caused by the electrostatic force of attraction between opposite charges, either between electrons and nuclei, or as the result of a dipole attraction. 
The H 2 molecule is a good example of the first type of covalent bond, the nonpolar bond. Because both atoms in the H 2 molecule have an equal attraction (or affinity) for electrons, the bonding electrons are equally shared by the two atoms, and a nonpolar covalent bond is formed. Chemical bonding between atoms results in compounds that can be very different from the parent atoms. This module, the second in a series on chemical reactions, describes how atoms gain, lose, or share electrons to form ionic or covalent bonds.
Covalent bonds form when two atoms have a very small (nearly insignificant) difference in electronegativity. The value of difference in electronegativity between two atoms in a covalent bond is less than 1.7. Covalent bonds often form between similar atoms, nonmetal to nonmetal or metal to metal. Covalent bonding signals a complete sharing of electrons. 