Phylum Arthropoda. This is the most extensive phylum in the animal kingdom. It is composed of 3/4 of all known species. Approximately 900,000 species of arthropods have been recorded. Included are spiders, scorpions, ticks, mites crustaceans, millipedes, centipedes, insects, and some others. There is an extended fossil record. Arthropods are eucoelomate protostomes with well-developed organ systems. Most species have combined or fused somites and appendages into functional groups called tagmata for specialized purposes. Although all types-carnivorous, omnivorous, and symbiotic-occur, the majority are herbivorous. In diversity of ecological distribution, the arthropods have no rival
A typical arthropod has a simple brain, an amazing set of sense organs, and a nervous system that connects the two. Colorless blood flows through the arthropod's body to nourish these as well as the other organ systems. In the simplest arthropod species, this fluid simply squishes to and fro. Crabs, lobsters, spiders, insects, centipedes, and millipedes these creatures all belong to the phylum Arthropoda, the most successful group of animals on Earth. Indeed, arthropods far outnumber all other types of animals combined, with an estimated 1 million species
There are over 800,000 named species in the Phylum Arthropoda, named from the Greek arthros (= jointed) and poda (= foot), including the familiar arachnids, crustaceans, and insects, together with a host of less familiar critters, like centipedes, millipedes and sea spiders. All arthropods have jointed appendages. Arthropods excrete by means of malphigian tubules, projections of the digestive tract that help conserve water. Terrestrial forms excrete nitrogen as uric acid, as do birds. Their waste is nearly dry, a superb adaptation to life on land. Arthropods have an open circulatory system, and separate sexes.
An arthropod (from Greek arthro- , joint + podos, foot) is an invertebrate animal having an exoskeleton (external skeleton), a segmented body, and jointed appendages. Arthropods form the phylum Arthropoda, and include the insects, arachnids, myriapods, and crustaceans. The word arthropod comes from the Greek ἄρθρον arthron,  árthron , joint and πούς (pous. gen), podos.i. e foot  or , leg which together mean jointed. leg
Antennae (singular: antenna) in biology have historically been paired appendages used for sensing in arthropods. More recently, the term has also been applied to cilium structures present in most cell types of eukaryotes. In arthropods, antennae are connected to the front-most segments. In crustaceans, they are biramous and present on the first two segments of the head, with the smaller pair known as antennules. All other arthropod groups – except chelicerates and proturans, which have none – have a single, uniramous pair of antennae.
These segments have become specialized, however, with one pair of jointed appendages added to each segment. Among living arthropods, the millipedes most closely suggest what the ancestral arthropod might have looked like. Arthropod segments have also fused together into functional units called tagma. Arthropods excrete by means of malphigian tubules, projections of the digestive tract that help conserve water. Terrestrial forms excrete nitrogen as uric acid, as do birds. Their waste is nearly dry, a superb adaptation to life on land. Arthropods have an open circulatory system, and separate sexes.
The arthropod body plan consists of segments, each with a pair of appendages. The rigid cuticle inhibits growth, so arthropods replace it periodically by moulting. Their versatility has enabled them to become the most species-rich members of all ecological guilds in most environments. The word arthropod comes from the Greek ἄρθρον arthron,  árthron , joint and πούς (pous. gen), podos.i. e foot  or , leg which together mean jointed. leg
All arthropods have segmented bodies divided into a head, thorax, and abdomen. In some cases, such as with the lobster, the head and thorax are fused together. This is called a cephalothorax. Arthropods also have jointed appendages. Arthropods have a complex internal design, with ganglia for a brain and an organ that acts as a heart. They have a complete digestive and excretory system. They also have well-developed sensory organs, that include antennae, eyes, and in some cases internal ears. 
Arthropods' primary internal cavity is a hemocoel, which accommodates their internal organs, and through which their haemolymph-analogue of blood-circulates; they have open circulatory systems. Like their exteriors, the internal organs of arthropods are generally built of repeated segments. The word arthropod comes from the Greek ἄρθρον arthron,  árthron , joint and πούς (pous. gen), podos.i. e foot  or , leg which together mean jointed. leg