In 1990, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved omeprazole (Prilosec), the first proton pump inhibitor (PPI), for the short-term treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease, active duodenal ulcer, severe erosive esophagitis, and pathologic hypersecretory conditions. Proton pump inhibitors cause few adverse effects with short-term use; however, long-term use has been scrutinized for appropriateness, drug-drug interactions, and the potential for adverse effects (e.g., hip fractures, cardiac events, iron deficiency, Clostridium difficile infection, pneumonia).
In general, proton pump inhibitors are well tolerated, and the incidence of short-term adverse effects is relatively low. Long-term use of PPIs has been less studied than short-term use, and the lack of data makes it difficult to make definitive statements. PPIs are among the most widely sold drugs in the world, and the first one, omeprazole, is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines.
Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) greatly reduce the amount of acid produced by the stomach, which in turn reduces irritation of the stomach lining and allows an ulcer to heal. When used with antibiotics, PPIs also help treat Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection. Why It Is Used. Proton pump inhibitors are used to treat ulcers. They provide short-term (2 to 8 weeks) treatment for ulcers in the stomach and in the upper small intestine. PPIs are also used to prevent ulcers and problems from ulcers (such as bleeding) in people who take NSAIDs long-term (for example, for arthritis)
PPIs cause few adverse effects with short-term use; however, long-term PPI use has been associated with an increased risk of all-cause mortality in two cohorts of institutionalized older persons, 5 in addition to being linked to a number of adverse effects (Table 2 6 – 23) . Proton pump inhibitors cause few adverse effects with short-term use; however, long-term use has been scrutinized for appropriateness, drug-drug interactions, and the potential for adverse effects (e.g., hip fractures, cardiac events, iron deficiency, Clostridium difficile infection, pneumonia).
A: Prilosec OTC (omeprazole) (http://www.everydayhealth.com/drugs/prilosec) is in a class of medications called proton pump inhibitors used to treat heartburn and GERD. Prilosec may also be used short term to treat ulcers. (http://www.everydayhealth.com/gerd/understanding.aspx) Common side effects associated with Prilosec include nausea and diarrhea, headache and stomach pain. A search of prescribing information did list gas and constipation as side effects of Prilosec OTC.
Proton-pump inhibitors (PPIs) are a group of drugs whose main action is a pronounced and long-lasting reduction of gastric acid production. They are the most potent inhibitors of acid secretion available. PPIs are among the most widely sold drugs in the world, and the first one, omeprazole, is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines.
There is a risk of side-effects for “millions who take unnecessary stomach drugs”, reported the Daily Mail. It said that proton pump inhibitors (PPIs), used for treating symptoms of ulcers and heartburn (dyspepsia) by reducing stomach acid, are wrongly prescribed in up to two-thirds of cases. 
A: Prilosec (omeprazole) is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) used in the treatment of dyspepsia, peptic ulcer disease (PUD) and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). With the widespread use of PPIs, the long-term safety issues need to be considered. Prilosec may also be used short term to treat ulcers. (http://www.everydayhealth.com/gerd/understanding.aspx) Common side effects associated with Prilosec include nausea and diarrhea, headache and stomach pain. A search of prescribing information did list gas and constipation as side effects of Prilosec OTC.