The spark that started the modern Civil Rights movement occurred in December of 1955. Blacks were very tired of the discriminating, but what really set it off was the murder of Emmett Till. Rosa Parks, a black seamstress, refused to give up her seat on a bus to a white man, as Montgomery, Alabama law required. The civil  rights movement was also very organized. Strategies such as  sit-ins, bus boycotts, freedom rides, and marches were organized,  so many civil rights believers participated. Civil rights believers  were very passive, too, which was an effective strategy.
THE CIVIL RIGHTS MOVEMENT. The Civil Rights Movement that began in the late 1950's won for African-Americans basic rights long denied to them, inspired other discriminated groups to fight for their own rights, and had a deep effect on American society. Yet the push for civil rights continued, with African-Americans making gains economically, politically, and socially. Moreover, other discriminated groups were inspired by the civil rights movement and borrowed its tactics.
Posted on. (Answer #1). The Civil Rights movement began on December 1, 1955, when Rosa Parks (1913–), a black seamstress, refused to cooperate with a segregation law. As she boarded a public bus in Montgomery, Alabama, she took a seat in the designated black rows in the back. 
On December 1, 1955, the modern civil rights movement began when Rosa Parks, an African-American woman, was arrested for refusing to move to the back of the bus in Montgomery, Alabama. Yet the push for civil rights continued, with African-Americans making gains economically, politically, and socially. Moreover, other discriminated groups were inspired by the civil rights movement and borrowed its tactics.
The Civil Rights Movement in the 1950s. The modern Civil Rights Movement got its start in the 1950s as returning African-American veterans from World War II began demanding equal rights. The decade of the fifties also saw the rise of Martin Luther King, Jr., and the nonviolent protest movement. The early 1960s was the heyday of the early Civil Rights Movement. The efforts of civil rights activists began paying off as Presidents Kennedy and Johnson finally addressed the issue.
07 Dec, 2010 when did 1. The civil rights movement was a non aggressive stand against the segregation laws that disallowed African American citizens their basic rights. It was aimed at outlawing the racial discrimination and lack of basic human freedom suffered by the African American population in the south. This made it possible for desegregation to begin in public schooling. The pivotal event that pushed the civil rights movement into full swing occurred on December 1st 1955 when an African American woman named Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat on a bus to a white man.
They were treated as second class citizens. The modern civil rights movement began in the 1950s. In 1955, a black woman in Alabama named Rosa Parks refused to give her seat on a bus to a white man. For this act of protest, Parks was arrested. The blacks no longer wanted to sit at the back of the bus, and started a boycott of the bus system. 
Answer by Alucard746. Confidence votes 24. The African American Civil Rights movement started when African Americans started speaking up for themselves, saying that they would not take any more harassment, and thus, begin the fight for equality and to end racism. As reconstruction ended and the Blacks lost political power in the South, there was no more federal civil rights legislation until The Civil Rights Acts of 1957 and 1960. The … spark that started the modern Civil Rights movement occurred in December of 1955.
Great leaders of the civil rights movement such as Martin Luther  King Jr. contributed to the success of the movement. The civil  rights movement was also very organized. Strategies such as  sit-ins, bus boycotts, freedom rides, and marches were organized,  so many civil rights believers participated. Civil rights believers  were very passive, too, which was an effective strategy.