Costochondritis Overview. Costochondritis is an inflammation of the junctions where the upper ribs join with the cartilage that holds them to the breastbone, or sternum. The condition causes localized chest pain that you can reproduce by pushing on the cartilage in the front of your ribcage. 
Cartilage attached to the front portion of your ribs allows your chest to expand as you move and breathe. Both your ribs and the associated pieces of cartilage have limited flexibility. Trauma or overstretching the junction between the bones and cartilage of the rib cage can cause a tear. Torn cartilage in the ribs is usually very painful. Sharp pain typically occurs immediately at the site of the tear. Ongoing pain may persist for weeks to months, depending on the severity of the injury. Your doctor may recommend an over-the-counter or prescription pain reliever to reduce your discomfort.
They are bars of hyaline cartilage that connect the ribs with the sternum. There are a total of 12 ribs divided into three categories on the basis of their articulation with the sternum. The first seven are known as true ribs because their costal cartilages articulate directly with the sternum. There are 12 pairs of ribs, all of which are attached posteriorly to the respective thoracic vertebrae. The upper 7 pairs are attached to the sternum directly through their costal cartilages.
The costal cartilages are bars of hyaline cartilage that serve to prolong the ribs forward and contribute to the elasticity of the walls of the thorax. Like the ribs, the costal cartilages vary in their length, breadth, and direction. They increase in length from the first to the seventh, then gradually decrease to the twelfth. Their breadth, as well as that of the intervals between them, diminishes from the first to the last.
Costochondritis is inflammation of the junctions where the upper ribs join the cartilage that holds them to the breastbone (sternum). Costochondritis causes localized chest wall pain and tenderness that can be reproduced by pushing on the involved cartilage in the front of the rib cage. 
The first seven pairs are connected with the sternum; the next three are each articulated with the lower border of the cartilage of the preceding rib; the last two have pointed extremities, which end in the wall of the abdomen. Like the ribs, the costal cartilages vary in their length, breadth, and direction. They increase in length from the first to the seventh, then gradually decrease to the twelfth. Their breadth, as well as that of the intervals between them, diminishes from the first to the last.
Ribs: There are 12 pairs of ribs, all of which are attached posteriorly to the respective thoracic vertebrae. The upper 7 pairs are attached to the sternum directly through their costal cartilages. Ribs 8 through 10 are attached indirectly to the sternum through the seventh costal cartilage. Their costal cartilages are also attached with each other at different points.
Answer by Michael.holmes. Confidence votes 7. Costochondral joint (Costo - = Rib, Chondro - = Cartilage) - these joints 'articulate' the ribs with the costal cartilage of the thoracic wall. However, there is no movement between the two. The Structural Classification for this joint is; Cartilaginous (Synchodrosis) 
Joints of costal cartilages: Costochondral joints: Costochondral joint means the joint between the rib and its costal cartilage. These are cartilaginous joints and no movements are possible here. Joints of costal cartilages with sternum: The first costal cartilage of both sides attach to the manubrium sterni. At this joint, no movement is possible. First rib and the last three ribs have a single synovial joint with the corresponding vertebrae while the remaining ribs have two synovial joints: one with the corresponding vertebra and one with the immediate above. These joints are formed by the heads of the ribs with the body of vertebrae.