Carbon forms a vast number of compounds, more than any other element, with almost ten million compounds described to date, which in turn are a tiny fraction of such compounds that are theoretically possible under standard conditions. Moreover, it has an affinity for bonding with other small atoms, including other carbon atoms, and is capable of forming multiple stable covalent bonds with such atoms. As a result, carbon is known to form almost ten million different compounds; the large majority of all chemical compounds.
A hydrocarbon chain is a molecule that consists of entirely hydrogen and carbon. They are the simplest of the organic compounds and may be a liquid, gas or solid. There are many types of hydrocarbon chains, including alkanes, alkenes, alkynes, cycloalkanes and arenes. They can be branched, linear, or cyclical. Hydrocarbon chains are ubiquitous in nature
Best Answer: Alkane, which is an SP3 carbon center. Alkene, which is SP2 (double bonded) carbon center. Alkyne, which is a linear, SP (triple bonded) carbon center. 
Hydrocarbons that have 4 bonds to every carbon atom are called alkanes. These are the least reactive of the hydrocarbons. Hydrocarbons that have a double bond between two carbon atoms are called alkenes. These are more reactive than alkanes. Electron-poor molecules react at the pi bond of alkenes. Hydrocarbons that have a triple bond between two carbon atoms are called alkyne
Hydrocarbons. Most of the compounds in crude oil are hydrocarbons. This means that they only contain hydrogen and carbon atoms, joined together by chemical bonds. There are different types of hydrocarbon, but most of the ones in crude oil are alkanes. The alkanes are a family of hydrocarbons that share the same general formula. This is: C n H 2n+2. The general formula means that the number of hydrogen atoms in an alkane is double the number of carbon atoms, plus two. For example, methane is CH 4 and ethane is C 2 H 6.
1 The general formula for saturated hydrocarbons is C n H 2n+2 (assuming non-cyclic structures). 2  Saturated hydrocarbons are the basis of petroleum fuels and are found as either linear or branched species. 3  Substitution reaction is their characteristics property (like chlorination reaction to form chloroform). 1 Those with double bond are called alkenes. 2  Those with one double bond have the formula C n H 2n (assuming non-cyclic structures). 3  Those containing triple bonds are called alkynes, with general formula C n H 2n-2. 4  Cycloalkanes are hydrocarbons containing one or more carbon rings to which hydrogen atoms are attached.
Carbon (from Latin: carbo coal) is a chemical element with symbol C and atomic number 6. On the Periodic table, it is the first (row 2) of six elements in column (group) 14, which have in common the composition of their outer electron shell. Moreover, it has an affinity for bonding with other small atoms, including other carbon atoms, and is capable of forming multiple stable covalent bonds with such atoms. As a result, carbon is known to form almost ten million different compounds; the large majority of all chemical compounds.
Hydrocarbons and alkanes. Most of the compounds in crude oil are hydrocarbons. This means that they only contain hydrogen and carbon atoms, joined together by chemical bonds. There are different types of hydrocarbon, but most of the ones in crude oil are alkanes. The alkanes are a family of hydrocarbons that share the same general formula. This is: C n H 2n+2. The general formula means that the number of hydrogen atoms in an alkane is double the number of carbon atoms, plus two. For example, methane is CH 4 and ethane is C 2 H 6.
HYDROCARBONS. These compounds form the simplest form of lipids, they contain only carbon and hydrogen. They may be divided into aliphatic hydrocarbons with a carbon chain which may be linear (normal), branched, saturated (alkanes) or unsaturated (alcenes), cyclic hydrocarbons and carotenoids. Several hydrocarbons may be substituted with oxygen-containing groups. These organic compounds include :
1 Saturated hydrocarbons (alkanes) are the simplest of the hydrocarbon species. 2  They are composed entirely of single bonds and are saturated with hydrogen. 3  The general formula for saturated hydrocarbons is C n H 2n+2 (assuming non-cyclic structures). 1 Those with double bond are called alkenes. 2  Those with one double bond have the formula C n H 2n (assuming non-cyclic structures). 3  Those containing triple bonds are called alkynes, with general formula C n H 2n-2. 4  Cycloalkanes are hydrocarbons containing one or more carbon rings to which hydrogen atoms are attached.