How to Copy Photos to a CD Using Microsoft Windows XP or Microsoft Windows Vista There are many occasions, where you will want to copy (sometimes called Zburn) photo files to a CD. You may be creating a backup copy of your photos, or you may want to share them with someone else. 
Insert the CD in your optical drive and go to...Start / Computer... Right click the drive letter for the optical drive the CD is in and. from the menu...choose...Explore. This should display the directory for the CD. If it does...you can. copy/paste or drag/drop the contents of the CD to a folder on. your hard drive. 
· Type the name you wish to call your new folder. HOW TO COPY PICTURE (FILE) FROM LOCATION TO ANOTHER. · Insert your CD into your CD drive (your new laptop). · Go to My Computer double click on your CD drive icon to open it (a windows should come up listing the content of your CD). · On your keyboard, press these buttons “Ctrl or Control” and the letter “A” at the same (this will select all your pictures on your CD). DO. I have copied 100 photos from my desktop (XP) to a CD and want to download or copy them to my new laptop (Vista). I have inserted disc and clicked on computer and clicked on E drive and I can see the photos but I can't find a way to get them loaded onto my laptop.
On Windows, go to your My Pictures folder and select the folders/photos you. want to burn to disc. Under Picture Tasks in the left-hand sidebar, click Copy to CD.. A message balloon will appear when Windows is ready to write the files. 
Assuming it is using a windows operating system, open 'my computer' and double click on the CD drive. You can then click and drag … the photos either onto your desktop or into your 'my pictures' folder. You can also right click on the photos and select copy, then right click and paste them into a document or a folder. + 146 others found this useful. Vicky Tusing. Assuming your computer has a recordable CD or DVD drive in it... Insert a recordable CD or DVD into the drive. Format the disc, then simply drag & drop the pictures you want t … o copy from the pictures folder on the computer-onto the disc's directory.
2. Open My Computer. 3. Click the files or folders you want to copy to the CD. To select more than one file, hold down the CTRL key while you click the files you want. Then, under File and Folder Tasks, click Copy this file, Copy this folder, or Copy the selected items. If the files are located in My Pictures, under Picture Tasks, click Copy to CD or Copy all items to CD, and then skip to step 5. 4. In the Copy Items dialog box, click the CD recording drive, and then click Copy. 5. In My Computer, double-click the CD recording drive. Windows displays a temporary area where the files are held before they are copied
Confidence votes 228. Put the CD in the CD drive of your computer. Assuming it is using a windows operating system, open 'my computer' and double click on the CD drive. You can then click and drag the photos either onto your desktop or into your 'my pictures' folder. You can also right click on the photos and select copy, then right click and paste them into a document or a fold
Use Explorer to access the CD drive and you should see the picture files in what ever folder or folders you loaded them in to. My Pentax, for example, puts the actual picture files in a sub folder of a parent folder so when (with a card reader) I load them to my computer, I use Explorer to find them. 
Windows XP. Insert the CD into the CD drive. Select Open a Writable CD Folder when prompted. Click on your pictures, or the folder with your pictures in it, and drag it into the newly open writable CD folder. Click Write These Files to CD, from the menu at the top of the window. Insert the blank CD into the CD drive. Name the CD when prompted and then click OK.. A new icon will appear on your desktop. Drag the pictures, or the folder containing the pictures, onto the icon. Drag the icon into the trash. A window will open up asking you whether you want to Burn the disc.