Argon is a colourless, odourless gas that is totally inert to other substances. Uses. Argon is often used when an inert atmosphere is needed. It is used in this way for the production of titanium and other reactive elements. It is also used by welders to protect the weld area and in incandescent light bulbs to stop oxygen from corroding the filament. 
Argon is a chemical element with symbol Ar and atomic number 18. It is in group 18 of the periodic table and is a noble gas. Although argon is a noble gas, it has been found to have the capability of forming some compounds. For example, the creation of argon fluorohydride (HArF), a compound of argon with fluorine and hydrogen which is stable below 17 K, was reported by researchers at the University of Helsinki in 2000.
In the universe, argon-36 is by far the most common argon isotope, being the preferred argon isotope produced by stellar nucleosynthesis in supernovas. In addition, argon is the most prevalent of the noble gases in Earth's crust, with the element composing 0.00015% of this crust. Although argon is a noble gas, it has been found to have the capability of forming some compounds. For example, the creation of argon fluorohydride (HArF), a compound of argon with fluorine and hydrogen which is stable below 17 K, was reported by researchers at the University of Helsinki in 2000.
A colorless, odorless, inert gaseous element constituting approximately one percent of the earth's atmosphere, from which it is commercially obtained by fractionation for use in electric light bulbs, fluorescent tubes, and radio vacuum tubes and as an inert gas shield in arc welding. 
Argon is an inert, colorless and odorless element — one of the Noble gases. Used in fluorescent lights and in welding, this element gets its name from the Greek word for lazy, an homage to how little it reacts to form compounds. On Earth, the vast majority of argon is the isotope argon-40, which arises from the radioactive decay of potassium-40, according to Chemicool. But in space, argon is made in stars, when a two hydrogen nuclei, or alpha-particles, fuse with silicon-32. The result is the isotope argon-36.
Argon is pronounced as AR-gon. History and Uses: Argon was discovered by Sir William Ramsay, a Scottish chemist, and Lord Rayleigh, an English chemist, in 1894. Argon makes up 0.93% of the earth's atmosphere, making it the third most abundant gas. Argon is obtained from the air as a byproduct of the production of oxygen and nitrogen. Argon is frequently used when an inert atmosphere is needed. 
Argon is the third most common gas in the Earth's atmosphere, at 0.93% (9,300 ppm), making it approximately 23.7 times as abundant as the next most common atmospheric gas, carbon dioxide (390 ppm), and more than 500 times as abundant as the next most common noble gas, neon (18 ppm). Although argon is a noble gas, it has been found to have the capability of forming some compounds. For example, the creation of argon fluorohydride (HArF), a compound of argon with fluorine and hydrogen which is stable below 17 K, was reported by researchers at the University of Helsinki in 2000.
Argon is the most abundant noble gas present in the Earth. About 1% of the Earth’s atmosphere is composed of Argon. In terms of behavior, Argon is considered very stable but not totally inert. This gaseous chemical has no color and no odor and/or taste. It is also considered safe and non-toxic making it very useful.
Argon, a noble gas, is used to create a shield for arc wielding, as well as in lighting and fire extinguishers. On the periodic table of elements, argon is identified by the symbol Ar, and the gas has an atomic number of 18. View slideshow of images above. 
Full Definition of ARGON. : a colorless odorless inert gaseous element found in the air and in volcanic gases and used especially in welding, lasers, and electric bulbs — see element table. See argon defined for English-language learners. See argon defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 