Tameka is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Ta-me-ka. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Tameka Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Tameka has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Tameka to other names. Tameka is a variant spelling of Tamika
Japanese Meaning: The name Tamika is a Japanese baby name. In Japanese the meaning of the name Tamika is: People. American Meaning: The name Tamika is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Tamika is: People. 
Tameka is a very popular first name for women (#786 out of 4276, Top 18%) but a rare surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Tameka for girls. Tameka entered the list in 1970-1979 and reached its highest position of #368 in the U.S. then, but is not found in the list currently. (2014 Birth Statistics). Tameka /tame-ka/ [3 sylls.] as a name for girls is a version of Tamika: modern American name of uncertain origin. Tomaka is a common last name.
Popularity of the Name Tameka. Below you will find the popularity of the baby name Tameka displayed annually, from 1880 to the present day in our name popularity chart. Hover over or click on the dots that represent a year to see how many babies were given the name for that year, for both genders, if available. The first thing you should know if you are considering Tameka for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Tameka is a girl name.
Tameka Name Meaning. The meaning of Tameka is “Twin”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. The first thing you should know if you are considering Tameka for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Tameka is a girl name.
Meaning: Tameka is originally a hawian name...means beautiful flower 40 years ago it was a unique its now ghetto bcuz of how some females portray themselves...its not the name its the person....my black is beautiful. 3: vote up - 0: vote down. Tameka. Tameka is originally a hawian name...means beautiful flower 40 years ago it was a unique its now ghetto bcuz of how some females portray themselves...its not the name its the person....my black is beautiful. 3: vote up - 0: vote down.
English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland. View the Tameka Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Tameka has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Tameka to other names.
Tameka's language of origin is English and it is also predominantly used in the English language. Tameka is a variant spelling of the English and Japanese Tamika. Tameka is an uncommon baby girl name. At the modest height of its usage in 1977, 0.062% of baby girls were given the name Tameka. It had a ranking of #242 then.
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Tameka in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Tameka in Nautical Flags page. View the Tameka Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Tameka has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Tameka to other names.