The sulfate or sulphate (see spelling differences) ion is a polyatomic anion with the empirical formula SO 4 2− . Sulfate is the spelling recommended by IUPAC, but sulphate is used in British English. Salts, acid derivatives, and peroxides of sulfate are widely used in industry. Sulfates occur widely in everyday life. Sulfates are salts of sulfuric acid and many are prepared from that acid. The sulfate ion carries a negative two charge and is the conjugate base of the bisulfate (or hydrogen sulfate) ion, HSO 4 − , which is the conjugate base of H 2SO 4, sulfuric acid. Organic sulfate esters, such as dimethyl sulfate, are covalent compounds and esters of sulfuric acid.
sulfate (SO 4 2-). [sul′fāt]. an anion of sulfuric acid. A sulfate is usually a combination of a metal with sulfuric acid. Natural sulfate compounds, such as sodium sulfate, calcium sulfate, and potassium sulfate, are plentiful in the body.
If you are not used to drinking water that is high in sulfates, there are no serious health risks. Sulfate salts, however, are used for a variety of purposes--from reducing greenhouse gases to leaving a bad taste in drinking water. Common Uses. Sulfate salts have diverse applications. Magnesium sulfate, or Epsom salt, is used for therapeutic baths; gypsum--the mineral form of hydrated calcium sulfate--produces plaster; and sulfate ions are used in some cationic drugs, according to New World Encyclopedia.
Facts. Sulfate is an inorganic salt of sulfuric acid. The ion sulfate is a polyatomic anion with the empirical formula SO4. Many sulfate salts are highly soluble in water. Sulfates increase the acidity of the atmosphere, creating acid rain. Common Uses. Sulfate salts have diverse applications. Magnesium sulfate, or Epsom salt, is used for therapeutic baths; gypsum--the mineral form of hydrated calcium sulfate--produces plaster; and sulfate ions are used in some cationic drugs, according to New World Encyclopedia.
Sulfur. Sulfur is the chemical element that is found in Sulfa Drugs, Sulfites, and Sulfates. Sulfur is an essential element of life and is found in amino acids and other important molecules in the body. It is IMPOSSIBLE to have a sulfur allergy. You cannot survive without sulfur. Sulfur is the chemical element that is found in Sulfa Drugs, Sulfites, and Sulfates. Sulfur is an essential element of life and is found in amino acids and other important molecules in the body. It is IMPOSSIBLE to have a sulfur allergy
Glucosamine sulfate is a chemical found in the human body. It is used by the body to produce a variety of other chemicals that are involved in building tendons, ligaments, cartilage, and the thick fluid that surrounds joints. Joints are cushioned by the fluid and cartilage that surround them. Glucosamine is also found in other places in nature. For example, the glucosamine sulfate that is put into dietary supplements is often harvested from the shells of shellfish. Glucosamine sulfate used in dietary supplements does not always come from natural sources.