In the past 20 to 30 years, there have been reports of a higher prevalence of hydrocephalus in Friesian horses than in other breeds or in the horse population in general. Due to a limited genetic pool, the Friesian breed is highly susceptible to inbreeding, with an average coefficient of approximately 15%. The overall prevalence of abortion in horses is estimated at 2%, so the prevalence of hydrocephalus can be estimated to be approximately 0.6 affected foals per 1000 births, which is similar to the prevalence in humans.
Hydrocephalus literally means “water on the brain.” Yorkshire Terriers and other toy breeds are predisposed to this serious condition in which “water,” or actually cerebro­spinal fluid, builds up pressure in the brain causing brain damage and often early death. Seizures affect many dogs with hydrocephalus, and most dogs are stunted in growth and have a disproportionately large domed skull. Vision and hearing may be altered too. Signs may appear at any point in a dog’s life.
Affected Breeds. Although any puppy can be born with hydrocephalus, certain breeds are genetically predisposed to the condition. These include the Chihuahua, Yorkshire terrier, bulldog, Lhasa apso, Maltese, Pomeranian, toy poodle, cairn terrier, Manchester terrier, Pekingese, shih tzu and Boston terrier. Water on the brain, formally known as hydrocephalus, occurs when cerebrospinal fluid builds up in that organ. While hydrocephalus can develop in older dogs because of trauma or a disease blocking cerebrospinal fluid drainage, in puppies it's a congenital
Yorkshire Terriers and other toy breeds with shortened heads, including the Chihuahua, Cairn Terrier, Maltese, Manchester Terrier, Pomeranian, and Toy Poodle, as well as brachycephalic breeds, such as the Boston Terrier, English Bulldog, Lhasa Apso, Pekingese, and Shih Tzu, are considered at high risk for hydrocephalus. Seizures affect many dogs with hydrocephalus, and most dogs are stunted in growth and have a disproportionately large domed skull. Vision and hearing may be altered too. Signs may appear at any point in a dog’s life.
Hydrocephalus in Dogs. Hydrocephalus is an expansion or abnormal dilation of the ventricular system due to an increased volume of spinal fluid. In this case, the ventricles that are affected are those connected with the spinal cord. The abnormal dilation may affect only on one side of the brain, or both sides. A tumor in the eye may also cause water on the brain. The congenital form of hydrocephalus is more likely to occur in small and brachycephalic dogs: bulldogs, Chihuahuas, Maltese, Pomeranians, Toy Poodles, Yorkshire Terriers, Lhasa Apsos, Cairn Terriers, Boston Terriers, Pugs, and Pekingese.
Small, miniature, and toy breeds seem to be more affected. These breeds as well as brachycephalic dogs (those with shorter faces), include the Boston terrier, Chihuahua, English bulldog, Manchester terrier, Pekingese, toy French poodle, and Yorkshire terrier. Buildup of CSF can occur in the brain if the flow or absorption of CSF is blocked or too much CSF is produced by the body. This leads to increased pressure within the skull that presses on the sensitive brain tissues. Increased intracranial pressure can lead to permanent, irreversible brain damage and death
Abstract. Hydrocephalus is an uncommon disorder in horses. However, hydrocephalus is observed more often in the Friesian horse breed than in other breeds. Due to the Friesian horse population has been closed for outside breeding and has a limited genetic pool. It leads to high rate of inbreeding
Hydrocephalus in Cats. Hydrocephalus is the abnormal dilation, or expansion, of the ventricular system due to an increased volume of spinal fluid. In this case, the ventricles that are connected with the spinal cord are the ventricles that are being affected. The abnormal dilation may affect only one side of the brain, or both side