Ambien in Detail-Patient Information: Side Effects. Zolpidem may cause a severe allergic reaction. Stop taking zolpidem and get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat.
The Effects of Taking Ambien While Drinking Alcohol. A number of side effects can occur when alcohol is mixed with Ambien. Drowsiness, a loss of coordination, and dizziness may result.
A generic formulation is available. The most common side effects of Ambien (zolpidem) are drowsiness, dizziness, weakness, lightheadedness, drugged feeling, tiredness, loss of coordination, stuffy nose, dry mouth, sore throat, nausea, constipation, diarrhea, stomach upset, headache, or muscle pain.
Common side effects may include: 1  daytime drowsiness, dizziness, weakness, feeling drugged or light-headed; 2  tired feeling, loss of coordination; 3  stuffy nose, dry mouth, nose or throat irritation; 4  nausea, constipation, diarrhea, upset stomach; or. 5  headache, muscle pain.
As you can see, some of the effects of mixing Ambien and alcohol can be very dangerous, particularly when someone acts out activities in their sleep. Ambien also chemically reacts with alcohol,having an additive effect in the body and brain when combined.
Mixing alcohol with Ambien can produce serious side effects. If you're experiencing difficulty falling asleep or staying asleep, your doctor might prescribe Ambien for the short-term relief of insomnia.
Ambien and alcohol effects. The main ingredient in Ambien is called zolpidem and is a sedative. Zolpidem can cause a euphoric high or even hallucinations when taken in large amounts, or without going immediately to bed. Snorting Ambien effects are even more dangerous.
Ambien is used to treat insomnia, but it is often only used for the short-term treatment of sleep disorders for less than two weeks. Ambien is highly addictive, so if you or someone you know may be addicted to Ambien and alcohol, it is best to seek treatment as soon as possible.