Steven used functional analysis to solve the problem with his motorcycle's engine: first, he checked the spark plug, then he checked the air filter, and finally, after eliminating other sources of the problem, he realized that the problem was with the fuel injector. 
In a functional analysis, the student is exposed to situations that may or may not cause problem behavior (i.e., work/demand situations, situations in which social attention is briefly withheld for a period of time, situations in which preferred items are briefly withheld for a period of time and free play conditions). Given the degree of control in a functional analysis, practitioners can accurately and reliably identify the consequences that reinforce and maintain problem behavior. Additionally, functional analyses provide a direct and immediate link between assessment and treatment.
Functional analysis is a branch of mathematical analysis, the core of which is formed by the study of vector spaces endowed with some kind of limit-related structure (e.g. inner product, norm, topology, etc.) and the linear operators acting upon these spaces and respecting these structures in a suitable sense. In modern introductory texts to functional analysis, the subject is seen as the study of vector spaces endowed with a topology, in particular infinite-dimensional spaces. In contrast, linear algebra deals mostly with finite-dimensional spaces, and does not use topology
Functional Analysis. Functional analysis transforms the functional, performance, interface and other requirements that were identified through requirements analysis into a coherent description of system functions that can be used to guide the Design Synthesis activity that follows. 
Functional analysis represents the most sophisticated and precise functional assessment procedure. Functional analyses are used to identify the environmental context in which aberrant behavior is likely and unlikely to occur. Given the degree of control in a functional analysis, practitioners can accurately and reliably identify the consequences that reinforce and maintain problem behavior. Additionally, functional analyses provide a direct and immediate link between assessment and treatment.
Classical functional analysis has the following components: 1. Identify potentially relevant characteristics of the individual client, his or her behavior, and the context in which it occurs via broad assessment. The purpose of the step is simply to collect data from which the beginnings of analysis might emerge. 
For this hypothetical functional analysis, the client is an 8 year old boy with autism who is engaging in head banging (self-injury) which we will define using Iwata et al’s (1994, p. 219) definition: ‘audible or forceful contact of the head against a stationary object’. Functional Analysis is the most precise, rigorous, and controlled method of conducting a functional assessment - O’Neill, Horner, Albin, Sprague, Storey, and Newton (1997, p. 7).
Functional Analysis. Functional analysis is a methodology that is used to explain the workings of a complex system. The basic idea is that the system is viewed as computing a function (or, more generally, as solving an information processing problem). He proposes a three-stage methodology that defines functional analysis. In the first stage, the to-be-explained function is defined. In the second stage, analysis is performed. The to-be-explained function is decomposed into an organized set of simpler functions.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Functional analysis in behavioral psychology is the application of the laws of operant conditioning to establish the relationships between stimuli and responses. Functional assessment in behavior analysis employs principles derived from the natural science of behavior analysis to determine the reason, purpose, or motivation for a behavior.