It is bordered by Syria to the north and east and Israel to the south. Lebanon's location at the crossroads of the Mediterranean Basin and the Arabian hinterland facilitated its rich history and shaped a cultural identity of religious and ethnic diversity. 
Lebanon is located on the continent of Asia, and its formal region is known as the Middle East. The Middle East is commonly mistaken to be somewhere outside of Asia. Lebanon i … s located next to Syria and Israel. The country of Lebanon is mountainous, bounded on the north and east by Syria, on the west by the Mediterranean and on the south by Israel. Between the parallel mountains rang … es of Lebanon and Anti-Lebanon lies the fertile Bekka Valley.
Lebanon Lebanon is located on the eastern coast of the Mediterranean Sea in the Middle East. It is bound by Syria to the north and east, Israel to the south and the Mediterranean Sea to the west.... Oman Oman is located in the extreme southeastern corner of the Arabian Peninsula. Israel Israel is located in the Middle East along the eastern end of the Mediterranean Sea. It is bound by the Mediterranean Sea to the west, Lebanon to the north, Syria to the northeast, Jordan to the east and Egypt to the southwest.... Jordan Jordan is located in the Middle East.
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Lebanon is a small, largely mountainous country in the Middle East, located at the eastern edge of the Mediterranean Sea. It is bordered by the Mediterranean Sea to the west along a 225 km coastline, by Syria to the east and north, and by Israel to the south. The Lebanon-Syria border stretches for 375 kilometers (233 mi) the Lebanon-Israel border for 79 kilometers (49 mi). 
The given Lebanon location map shows that Lebanon is located in the western Asia. Lebanon map also shows that the Mediterranean Sea lies in the west of Lebanon. However, country shares its international boundaries with Syria in the east and north and Israel in the south. Interestingly, Lebanon was the home of the Phoenicians.
LOCATION AND SIZE. Situated in the Middle East, Lebanon is a small country on the eastern shore of the Mediterranean Sea. Lebanon has a narrow coastal plain along the Mediterranean Sea, which is 225 kilometers (139.8 miles) long and is bordered by Syria on the north and east and by Israel on the south.
Lebanon is a country with a small population which is located in the continent/region of Asia. Countries near Lebanon include Palestine, Cyprus, Syria and Israel. Its biggest cities and towns include Beirut, Bayrut, Sur and Juniyah. 