The Blue Whale is the largest known mammal that has ever lived, and the largest living animal, at up to 110 feet long and 150 tons. Most whales are quite active in the water. They jump high, or breach, out of the water and land back in the water. 
humpback whale – While humpback whales can be found traveling all over the world, however they prefer the cold waters in and around the Arctic and Antarctic oceans. Blue Whale – Blue whales can also be found traveling all the major oceans. Gray Whale – Gray whales are often found swimming in the eastern and western north pacific ocean during feeding season and will migrate towards the Baja peninsula of mexico and the southern golf of california where they can mate and bare off spring during their mating period.
Answer by Matthew Parker. Confidence votes 2.6K. Whales live in all the world's oceans, and some smaller ones in various zoos and artificial habitats. The largest numbers of whales live in the cooler regions of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans, and many in the polar oceans (Arctic, Southern, and southern Indian Oceans).
For example killer whales (part of the dolphin family) can be found in all of the major oceans of the world, but are more concerned with migrating to where their food supply goes than where they mate, therefore their prey plays a large role in where the killer whale lives. Gray Whale – Gray whales are often found swimming in the eastern and western north pacific ocean during feeding season and will migrate towards the Baja peninsula of mexico and the southern golf of california where they can mate and bare off spring during their mating period.
Whale sharks live in warm waters and tropical oceans around the world. It is restricted to around +- 30 degrees of latitude. 
Whales live in the oceans of the world, but of course they must surface to breathe air. They are migratory and do not stay in one specific location, which is why whaling ships … had to remain at sea for long periods of time to follow their migrations. The largest numbers of whales live in the cooler regions of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans, and many in the polar oceans (Arctic, Southern, and southern Indian Oceans).
Species: orca. Though killer whales, also called orcas, are considered whales by most people, they are actually members of the Delphinidae (dolphin) family. Killer whales are excellent hunters that a wide range of prey, including fish, seals, and big whales such as blue whales. Interesting Facts: 1  Killer whales are social animals that live in stable family-related groups. 2  Killer whales display a high level of care for their offspring. 3  In addition to the mothers, various pod members (mainly adolescent females) perform most of the care for the calves.
Sperm Whale – Sperm whales can be found in all of the worlds major oceans. Female sperm whales and their young prefer to stay in near tropical waters all year-long while the males can be seen traveling back and forth from the colder climates to the warmer climates during mating periods. Gray Whale – Gray whales are often found swimming in the eastern and western north pacific ocean during feeding season and will migrate towards the Baja peninsula of mexico and the southern golf of california where they can mate and bare off spring during their mating period.
Killer whales have no natural predators (they are the top predators of the oceans) and can live to about 50-80 years old. Killer whales have been hunted by humans but not with enthusiasm as it takes 21 killer whales to produce the same amount of oil as 1 sperm whale. Interesting Facts: 1  Killer whales are social animals that live in stable family-related groups. 2  Killer whales display a high level of care for their offspring. 3  In addition to the mothers, various pod members (mainly adolescent females) perform most of the care for the calves.