The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) is a civilian foreign intelligence service of the U.S. Government, tasked with gathering, processing and analyzing national security information from around the world, primarily through the use of human intelligence (HUMINT). The CIA established its first training facility, the Office of Training and Education, in 1950. Following the end of the Cold War, the CIA's training budget was slashed, which had a negative effect on employee retention. In response, Director of Central Intelligence George Tenet established CIA University in 2002.
The Central Intelligence Agency was created on 26 July 1947, when Harry S. Truman signed the National Security Act into law. A major impetus for the creation of the CIA was the unforeseen attack on Pearl Harbor. The CIA established its first training facility, the Office of Training and Education, in 1950. Following the end of the Cold War, the CIA's training budget was slashed, which had a negative effect on employee retention. In response, Director of Central Intelligence George Tenet established CIA University in 2002.
The Central Intelligence Agency was created in 1947 with the signing of the National Security Act of 1947 (PL 235 - 61 Stat. 496; U.S.C. 402) by President Harry S. Truman. The Act was amended by the National Security Act Amendments of 1949 (63 Stat. From SourceWatch. The Central Intelligence Agency was created in 1947 with the signing of the National Security Act of 1947 (PL 235 - 61 Stat. 496; U.S.C. 402) by President Harry S. Truman. The Act was amended by the National Security Act Amendments of 1949 (63 Stat. 579; 50 U.S.C. 401 et seq.).
Central Intelligence Agency. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), independent executive bureau of the U.S. government established by the National Security Act of 1947, replacing the wartime Office of Strategic Services (1942–45), the first U.S. espionage and covert operations agency. 
In particular, the CIA, like other U.S. intelligence agencies, has the responsibility to protect intelligence sources and methods from disclosure. The Central Intelligence Agency was created in 1947 with the signing of the National Security Act by President Harry S. Truman. The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) is a civilian intelligence agency of the United States government. he CIA has established this site to provide the public with an overview of access to CIA information, including electronic access to previously released documents
Answer   The Central Intelligence Agency was created by the US Congress at the prompting of President Harry S Truman. The idea of the Agency came from William J Donovan, … who had created the CIA's predecessor, the WWII Office of Strategic Services. The first Director was Roscoe H. Hillenkoetter. The Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) is a civilian intelligence agency of the United States government. he CIA has established this site to provide the public with an overview of access to CIA information, including electronic access to previously released documents
Before there was a Director of National Intelligence, the leading intelligence figure in the U.S. government was the Director of Central Intelligence (DCI). The DCI was established in 1947 as part of the National Security Act, which also created the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), over which the DCI presided. 
Lawrence Houston, head counsel of the SSU, CIG, and, later CIA, was a principle draftsman of the National Security Act of 1947 which dissolved the NIA and the CIG, and established both the National Security Council and the Central Intelligence Agency. The CIA established its first training facility, the Office of Training and Education, in 1950. Following the end of the Cold War, the CIA's training budget was slashed, which had a negative effect on employee retention. In response, Director of Central Intelligence George Tenet established CIA University in 2002.