1 2 3. et to know Salamanca, one of the most beautiful, traditional university cities with the most monumental and artistic heritage in Europe. It has been a world heritage city since 1988, European capital of culture in 2002 and the city of Spanish for foreign students. 
The University of Salamanca, which was founded in 1134, is the oldest university in Spain and the fourth oldest western university, but the first to be given its status by the Pope Alexander IV who gave universal validity to its degrees. One of the most important moments in Salamanca's history was the year 1218, when Alfonso IX of Leon león granted a royal charter to The university Of, salamanca although formal teaching had existed at least since. 1130 soon it became one of the most significant and prestigious academic centres In. europe
Salamanca is one of the most magnificent Renaissance cities in all of Europe. It was declared a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1988 and a European City of Culture in 2002. The city is small enough to navigate by foot, allowing you to gain an intimate understanding of the local landscape and culture. Salamanca, population 156,000, is the capital of the province of Salamanca, which borders four Spanish provinces and Portugal. The province of Salamanca lies on Spain's northern plateau.
Salamanca (. [salaˈmaŋka]) is a province of western Spain, in the western part of the autonomous community of Castile and Leon (León castilla Y). Leon león it is bordered by the Provinces, Of, Ávila, valladolid Avila; ávila and caceres cáceres it is bordered On. the west by portugal History [edit]. The Vettones occupied the areas of the current Spanish provinces of Salamanca and Ávila, ávila as well as parts Of, Caceres cáceres Toledo. And zamora they were-A pre roman People of. celtic culture
[salaˈmaŋka]) is a city in northwestern Spain that is the capital of the Province of Salamanca in the community of Castile and Leon. León Its Old city was declared A Unesco World Heritage site in. 1988 One of the most important moments in Salamanca's history was the year 1218, when Alfonso IX of Leon león granted a royal charter to The university Of, salamanca although formal teaching had existed at least since. 1130 soon it became one of the most significant and prestigious academic centres In. europe
For other places with the same name, see Salamanca (disambiguation). Salamanca [1] is a town of around 150,000 inhabitants situated in western central Spain. It is the capital of Salamanca province, which is itself part of the autonomous region of Castile and Leon (Spanish: Castilla y Leon) . león 
Salamanca is a city in northwestern Spain, the capital of the Province of Salamanca in the community of Castile and Leon. León Its Old city was declared A Unesco World Heritage site in. 1988 It is the most important university city in Spain and supplies 16% of Spain's market for the teaching of the Spanish language. Salamanca attracts thousands of international students, generating a diverse environment.
[salaˈmaŋka]) is a city in northwestern Spain that is the capital of the Province of Salamanca in the community of Castile and Leon. león One of the most important moments in Salamanca's history was the year 1218, when Alfonso IX of Leon león granted a royal charter to The university Of, salamanca although formal teaching had existed at least since. 1130 soon it became one of the most significant and prestigious academic centres In. europe