Bacillus megaterium. Bacillus megaterium is a rod-shaped, Gram-positive, endospore forming bacterium. Usually motile.Compatible with natural enzymes; We supply Bacillus megaterium determines as a good bio-solubilisation of metals There are notable bio-solubilisations for manganese (80%) and iron (60%). B. megaterium resulted in a greater than 40% reduction in nematode penetration and gall formation compared with non-treated rice roots, and, in a separate study, colonization of rice roots with B. megaterium decreased migration of M. graminicola to the root zone by nearly 60% compared with that of non-treated roots.
Bacillus megaterium is a rod-like, Gram-positive, mainly aerobic spore forming bacterium found in widely diverse habitats. B. megaterium has been recognized as an endophyte and is a potential agent for the biocontrol of plant diseases. Nitrogen fixation has been demonstrated in some strains of B. megaterium.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Bacillus megaterium is a rod-like, Gram-positive, mainly aerobic spore forming bacterium found in widely diverse habitats. With a cell length of up to 4 µm and a diameter of 1.5 µm, B. megaterium is amongst the biggest known bacteria. The cells often occur in pairs and chains, where the cells are joined together by polysaccharides on the cell walls. In the 1960s, prior to the development of Bacillus subtilis, B. megaterium was the main model organism among Gram-positive bacteria for intensive studies on biochemistry, sporulation and bacteriophages. B. megaterium has been recognized as an endophyte and is a potential agent for the biocontrol of plant diseases. Nitrogen fixation has been demonstrated in some strains of B. megaterium.
Genome structure. Bacillus megaterium has been studied since the 1940's because it was one of the only species to have 100% of a culture sporulate as well as the ability to germinate at the same rate. It is about two times greater in volume compared to that of an E. coli. Bacillus megaterium is a prokaryotic cell, lacking membrane-bound organelles. It is a Gram-positive, rod-shaped and found with other bacillus megaterium organisms. It is motile, with the use of its flagella. The cell wall, has large amounts of peptidoglycan. The flow of energy in cellular respiration is considered aerobic, but may undergo anaerobic conditions
A member of the genus Bacillus, B. subtilis is rod-shaped, and can form a tough, protective endospore, allowing it to tolerate extreme environmental conditions. B. subtilis has historically been classified as an obligate aerobe, though evidence exists that it is a facultative aerobe. As other members of the genus Bacillus, it can form an endospore, to survive extreme environmental conditions of temperature and desiccation. B. subtilis is a facultative anaerobe and had been considered as an obligate aerobe until 1998.
1. Rare to none: Bacillus megaterium is a rod-shaped, gram-positive, endospore forming, aerotolerant species of bacteria used as a soil inoculant in agriculture and horticulture. Bacterium is arranged into the streptobacillus form. 
Bacillus megaterium is a gram positive, spore producing bacteria. It is a Eubacteria and is found in the soil. It has a rod shape and is one of the largest Eubacteria. 
Bacillus megaterium is a gram positive, endospore forming, rod shaped bacteria. It is considered aerobic. It is found in soil and considered a saprophyte. Bacillus megaterium is latin for the big beast because it is an extremely large bacteria, it is about 100 times as large as E. coli. Due to its immense size, about 60 micrometers cubed, B. megaterium has been used to study structure, protein localization and membranes of bacteria since the 1950’s. Most notably, B. megaterium is the organism that was used by Lwoff and Guttman in the studies that discovered lysogeny.
B. subtilis is considered the best studied Gram-positive bacterium and a model organism to study bacterial chromosome replication and cell differentiation. It is one of the bacterial champions in secreted enzyme production and used on an industrial scale by biotechnology companies. As other members of the genus Bacillus, it can form an endospore, to survive extreme environmental conditions of temperature and desiccation. B. subtilis is a facultative anaerobe and had been considered as an obligate aerobe until 1998.