The estimated average cost of a liver transplant in Ontario, including follow-up costs, is $121 732, but the range varies widely — from $30 505 to $690 431 — because of factors such as disease severity, post-transplant infection and biliary complications.
As of 2002, the cost of a liver transplant in the United States averaged about $250,000 for immediate hospital and doctor expenses. Necessary pre-and post-operative expenses brought the total to about $314,500. In some cases Medicare provides coverage for liver transplants for some causes of liver failure.
Costs. The cost of a transplant, including preliminary testing, the surgery itself and post-operative recovery costs vary across the country and depend on the hospital and organ type. These costs start to add up, even before your transplant.
A. A liver transplant with a liver from a cadaver donor costs around Rs. 10 lakhs and that from a live donor around Rs. 15 lakhs. In addition, there is a recurring expenditure after transplant of around Rs. 20,000 pm for the first 4-6 months, Rs.
Transplantation Costs. The costs of your liver transplant include transplant evaluation and testing, transplant surgery and follow-up care and medication. Even before a liver transplant, you have probably received many medical bills for treatment by your physician, hospital, laboratories and medical specialists.
The cost of a transplant, including preliminary testing, the surgery itself and post-operative recovery costs vary across the country and depend on the hospital and organ type. These costs start to add up, even before your transplant.
1 For patients covered by health insurance, out-of-pocket costs for a liver transplant typically consist of doctor visit, lab and prescription drug copays as well as coinsurance of 10%-50% for surgery and other procedures, which can easily reach the yearly out-of-pocket maximum.
As of 1997, the cost of a liver transplant in the United States was $314,500, including the evaluation, procurement of the liver, hospitalization, physician fees and follow-up care and medications for the first year.