To mix gelatin powder (green lid) into liquid without clumps: First mix into a small amount of cool water and stir well. Let sit for 2 minutes and then add the needed amount of warm water. This tempers the gelatin and makes it smooth. I order Gelatin online and use this brand since I’ve been able to verify that it comes from grass-fed, humanely raised animals. The Collagen Protein (green lid) will gel and is good for things like Jello while the Collagen Peptides (blue lid) is great for mixing in to hot or cold drinks.
To make, stir 1 tablespoon of Gelatin powder (green lid) in to 1/2 cup of cool water until mixed. Add 1/2 cup warm/hot water, 1 teaspoon of apple cider vinegar and 1 teaspoon of honey to create a thick gel/liquid. Pour into hair and massage through hair and scalp. I order Gelatin online and use this brand since I’ve been able to verify that it comes from grass-fed, humanely raised animals. The Collagen Protein (green lid) will gel and is good for things like Jello while the Collagen Peptides (blue lid) is great for mixing in to hot or cold drinks.
My oldest brother used Knox Gelatin powder in a small amount of water as a hair gel. It has no smell, chemicals to damage your hair and has great hold. Also of you get wet and it runs, it doesn’t have a horrid taste or hurt your eyes either. Works great for mohawks and spikes of all kinds. I order Gelatin online and use this brand since I’ve been able to verify that it comes from grass-fed, humanely raised animals. The Collagen Protein (green lid) will gel and is good for things like Jello while the Collagen Peptides (blue lid) is great for mixing in to hot or cold drinks.
It is much easier and tastier to get collagen in a food form from bone broth and gelatin powder. Liver Detox: Gelatin is rich in glycine, which can be considered a conditionally essential amino acid. The human body needs a great deal of glycine for detoxification from exposure to chemicals in our toxic environment. You can find grass fed Kosher beef gelatin here. Gelatin is basically dehydrated broth powder made up of bones, cartilage, collagen and minerals. Homemade bone broth can be a great source of gelatin but many people on the run feel they don’t have time to make it.
How I incorporate gelatin daily I include gelatin in my diet daily. I either eat soup, drink broth or supplement with gelatin powder. You can get my recipe for slow cooker chicken broth HERE and slow cooker beef broth HERE. We also use gelatin to make homemade jello, gummy treats and desserts, like panna cotta.
Gelatin is most effective when used internally, but even externally, it can smooth and strengthen skin. Another tip: Mix 1 tablespoon Gelatin Powder with 2 tablespoons warm water and 1 tablespoon fresh lemon juice and apply to face. Leave on for 15 minutes and rinse with warm water. I order Gelatin online and use this brand since I’ve been able to verify that it comes from grass-fed, humanely raised animals. The Collagen Protein (green lid) will gel and is good for things like Jello while the Collagen Peptides (blue lid) is great for mixing in to hot or cold drinks.
GELATIN Overview Information. Gelatin is a protein made from animal products. Gelatin is used for weight loss and for treating osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and brittle bones (osteoporosis). Some people also use it for strengthening bones, joints, and fingernails. Gelatin is also used for improving hair quality and to shorten recovery after exercise and sports-related injury. In manufacturing, gelatin is used for preparation of foods, cosmetics, and medicines. 
Alternatively, powdered gelatin is a quick substitute for bone broth that can be a valuable addition to the diet if it is from healthy animals. Gelatin is a great source of amino acids, which support a healthy mood, strong bones, smooth skin and proper muscle synthesis. You can find grass fed Kosher beef gelatin here. Gelatin is basically dehydrated broth powder made up of bones, cartilage, collagen and minerals. Homemade bone broth can be a great source of gelatin but many people on the run feel they don’t have time to make it.
For a powder, 1 to 2 Tbsp per day should be enough; and for a capsule supplement, follow manufacturer instructions. You can also drink bone broth (which is high in gelatin) or eat gelatin-rich cuts of meat (anything that is on the bone or has connective tissue attached) such as shank, oxtail, and even pig's feet. 
Gelatin is a translucent, colorless, brittle, flavorless solid substance, derived from collagen found in animal bones. It is commonly used as a gelling agent in food, pharmaceuticals, photography, and cosmetic manufacturing. You can find grass fed Kosher beef gelatin here. Gelatin is basically dehydrated broth powder made up of bones, cartilage, collagen and minerals. Homemade bone broth can be a great source of gelatin but many people on the run feel they don’t have time to make it.