Algol (beta-Persei, SAO 38592) also known as the Demon Star is an eclipsing binary star, so an orbiting star eclipses Algol causing its magnitude to change from a relatively bright 2.1 to a much dimmer 3.4, every 2 days 20 hours and 49 minutes. Although Algol is an eclipsing binary, it's in fact a three-star system. Surprisingly there was only one suitable pair of stars to fit the criteria -- Algol and Rho Persei in the constellation of Perseus. This would make an impressive pair of stars in a deep-sky image, and both are visible with the unaided eye, so they're pretty bright as well.
Mirfak. Mirfak or Alpha Persei (Alp Per) is the brightest naked eye star in the constellation Perseus. With an apparent magnitude of 1.79, Mirfak is the 35th brightest star in the entire sky (see: 50 Brightest Stars). Its absolute magnitude is -4.5 and its distance is 592 light years. 
3. The brightest star in Perseus is Algneib. It is a Red Supergiant with an apparent brightness of1.79m, lying 590 light years away from our solar system. It has a luminosity of 5000 times our sun. 4. The most famous star in Perseus is Agol. In Arabic, it means The Ghoul, or The Demon Star. Perseus is the son of Danae and Zeus. He was the slayer of Medusa, and rescuer of Andromeda from the sea dragon. Perseus was a hero in Greek mythology. He was the son of Zeu … s, king of the gods, and the mortal Danae
Rho Persei is one of the few red stars you'll notice in Perseus; this ruddy giant star is magnitude 3.3, and is located just about 2 degrees south of Algol, making for a fine color contrast pair in binoculars. Gamma Persei is a magnitude 2.91 star located just northwest of Mirfak, and is unusual among the brighter stars in Perseus in its yellow color. A giant star, Gamma puts out almost a thousand times the light of our sun, and lies at a distance of 257 light ye
Mirfak isn’t as famous as its brother star in Perseus, called Algol. But Mirfak is easier to find and can help guide you to Algol. Mirfak (Alpha Persei) ranks as the brightest star in the constellation Perseus, which represents a Hero in ancient skylore, but whose graceful shape always reminds me of someone dancing. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Perseus, named after the Greek mythological hero Perseus, is a constellation in the northern sky. It was one of 48 listed by the 2nd-century astronomer Ptolemy, and among the 88 modern constellations defined by the International Astronomical Union (IAU). The galactic plane of the Milky Way passes through Perseus but is mostly obscured by molecular clouds. The constellation's brightest star is the yellow-white supergiant Alpha Persei (also called Mirfak), which shines at magnitude 1.79.
Alpha Persei (Alpha Per, α Persei, α Per) is the brightest star in the northern constellation of Perseus, just outshining the constellation's best known star, Algol. Known by the traditional names Mirfak and Algenib, it is a circumpolar star when viewed from the latitude of New York City or higher. Mirfak lies in the midst of a cluster of stars eponymously named the Alpha Persei Cluster, or Melotte 20, which is easily visible in binoculars and includes many of the fainter stars in the constellation.
Algol. Algol or Beta Persei (Bet Per) is the second brightest naked eye star in the constellation Perseus. With an apparent magnitude of 2.09, Algol is the 60th brightest star in the entire sky (see: 50 Brightest Stars). Its absolute magnitude is -0.18 and its distance is 93 light years.