The other is to remove or reset RAR password with a powerful password tool. In this part, RAR Password Genius such a tool, provided to get RAR password for you with four password attack methods. And then you can remove RAR password. Now let's see how it removes encrypted RAR file password. Steps to remove RAR password in WinRAR with known password: 1  1. Extract encrypted RAR archive with password in WinRAR. 2  2. 3  Create a new RAR with files extracted from encrypted RAR archive, and don't set a password.
After that, you can remove RAR password in archive software, such as WinRAR. So, RAR Password Genius is a nice helper if you want to make encrypted RAR file password removed. Steps to remove RAR password in WinRAR with known password: 1  1. Extract encrypted RAR archive with password in WinRAR. 2  2. 3  Create a new RAR with files extracted from encrypted RAR archive, and don't set a password. 4  3. Take new RAR file instead of original archive
With just WinRAR, it is impossible to simply remove the password from an archive, since the data itself is encrypted with the password. You could make a quick batchfile implementing a remove password feature, which could simply unrar the archive, and then re-compress the files without a password. 
RAR files are used as compression files for applications or documents. Many people put passwords on their RAR files so that other users cannot access the contents of the file. If you have an RAR file with a password protection on it, you can remove the password protection with little hassle. You won't have to buy any additional software to remove the password
Follows these Steps to remove .RAR Password: Step 1: Download Rar Password Recovery, then install it on your computer. Step 2: Install and open the application Rar Password Recovery. Step 3: Browse you file which you want remove password. Step 4: Then click on Start button on top of the windows to remove the password.
To remove the password protection, a new archive must be created. Right click on the extracted file and choose the 'Add to Archive' option from the context menu. Step 4. The Archive name and parameters window will be displayed to the user. Click on the 'Advanced' tab and click the Set password button. To remove the password protection feature, double click on the file which will open the archive. Step 2. Depending on how the file was compressed, the contents may or may not be displayed to the user. The user will be prompted to input the password into the message text box.
From WinRAR Remover: WinRar Remover-WinRar Password Remover Automatically remove WinRAR passwords from protected files and accesses your precious information or files. Analyze, decipher and unlock password protected archives almost instantly. Password Remover: Gain access to any WinRAR Archive that you please. 
Then search for and double click the *.RAR file whose password you forgot and want to remove. Step 3: Select a proper option in the type of attack drop-down list. If you still remember part of your password, you had better choose Mask. If not, any rest one is ok. 
Instructions. Open the WinRAR software utility and right click on the RAR file that has the password you want to remove. Select Extract Files from the list of options. Enter the RAR file's password in the window that appears and select OK.. Select the OK button from the bottom of the next window that appears. This will extract the archive's contents into a folder in the same directory that the RAR file is in.
How to Remove WinRAR Password: Download and install RAR Password Recovery software on your computer. Launch RAR Password Recovery program. Click the ... button to select your password-protected RAR archive file (*.rar). Select a attack method, then click the Next button to continue. It's recommended to try the Dictionary attack method before proceeding to the Brute-force attack method. If you can recall part of the password, the Mask attack is the best choice. When you forgot WinRAR password, you can use Dictionary attack, Mask attack or Brute-force attack to remove your WinRAR password easily.