1 Eggs out of the shell will usually stay good for 2 to 4 days in the fridge and one year in the freezer; egg yolks and egg whites may also be frozen separately and used later for cooking or baking purposes. 1 To maximize the shelf life of eggs, do not store them in the molded egg rack of the refrigerator door, as the temperature is too warm — the eggs will last much longer when they are stored in the main body of the refrigerator, in their purchased carton.
1 Eggs can remain edible for even longer than a month, but freshness (egg yolk that sits firm and high, and a thick viscous egg white) will be noticeably less after two weeks. 2  If eggs start out as Grade AA, they remain AA for only two weeks if properly refrigerated. 3  After that, they'll be Grade A for another 2 weeks.   Eggs … can remain edible for even longer than one month, but freshness (egg yolk that sits firm and high, and a thick viscous egg white) will be noticeably less after two weeks.   There is an expiration date on the carton. If in doubt, put the egg in water.
You should always purchase eggs by the sell-by or expiration date. Once you get them home, you can keep them for up to 5 weeks from the purchase date, even if the sell-by date expires during that time. 
Refrigeration protects eggs against pathogen growth. Eggs also age 4 times faster when they are unrefrigerated, so eggs that normally have a 30-45 day shelf life, would deteriorate in just over a week. The rule of thumb is that refrigerated foods should not be left out at room temperature for more than 2 hours. Written 29 Jul, 2011 • View Upvotes. 
Eggs that you buy from the store will not stay fresh for long  without refrigeration. Eggs that come right from the chicken can  kept at room temperature for weeks. Store bo … ught eggs should be  refrigerated within a few hours of buying them just to be safe. After that, they'll be Grade A for another 2 weeks.   Eggs … can remain edible for even longer than one month, but freshness (egg yolk that sits firm and high, and a thick viscous egg white) will be noticeably less after two weeks.   There is an expiration date on the carton.
Expert answer: Eggs are unlikely to go bad in a refrigerator setting, but would dry up over time. Eggs don't automatically go bad or spoil after date. If the eggs do not already have salmonella, it will not grow in an egg as it sits in your fridge. The USDA says that the date can be no further ahead than 30 days after the packing date. Your store can choose any day within that 30 days to date the eggs.
1 To freeze whole eggs: (1) Remove eggs from their shells; (2) Pierce yolks and gently mix in 1/2 teaspoon of salt for every one cup of raw eggs (if using eggs for main dishes) or 1 tablespoon of sugar (if using for baking or desserts); (3) Place in covered airtight containers or heavy-duty freezer bags and freeze. 1 To maximize the shelf life of eggs, do not store them in the molded egg rack of the refrigerator door, as the temperature is too warm — the eggs will last much longer when they are stored in the main body of the refrigerator, in their purchased carton.
The bottom line is shelf life. The shelf life for an unrefrigerated egg is 7 to 10 days and for refrigerated, it's 30 to 45 days. A good rule of thumb is one day at room temperature is equal to one week under refrigeration.. Eggs purchased from grocery stores are typically already three weeks old, or older. 
After eggs are refrigerated, they need to stay that way. A cold egg left out at room temperature can sweat, facilitating the movement of bacteria into the egg and increasing the growth of bacteria. Refrigerated eggs should not be left out more than 2 hours. 
Expert answer: We tell consumers to look to the egg carton sell-by dates to judge freshness. The USDA says that the date can be no further ahead than 30 days after the packing date. Your store can choose any day within that 30 days to date the eggs. If you don't find a date on the carton, using the eggs within three weeks of the carton date should allow them to be used within optimum quality, meaning the yolk will be high and upstanding, and the white will be tall and firm