AMEs are specifically trained and designated by the FAA to give aeromedical physical exams and certification to civilian pilots and air traffic controllers. FlightPhysical.com often gets requests from physicians who want to become AMEs. FAA Order 8520.2E, describes the Aviation Medical Examiner System. This guideline lays out the policies and procedures for the designation of Aeromedical Examiners (AMEs). As a requirement, an AME applicant must first complete a 4 1/2-day Basic AME Seminar. 
So my FAA medical is due for renewal and while in the process of getting it I figured… Man what a great video idea! Plus I actually learned a few things during the process. For example the FAA is going all electronic with their medical paperwork now. I’ll show you how to do all of that in this video. I renew in May and tomorrow, I have to do a colonsocopy, then I have an exam with my kidney transplant doc in 7 days and my liver transplant doc in 2 weeks. They do a statement of my last 12 months of health and sent that to the FAA for clearance. Before they ask, I have any changes in medications explained up front.
The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is the national aviation authority of the United States. In July 2014, in the wake of the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17, the FAA suspended flights by U.S. airlines to Ben Gurion Airport during the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict for 24 hours.
This legislation gave the CAA's functions to a new independent body, the Federal Aviation Agency. The act transferred air safety regulation from the CAB to the new FAA, and also gave the FAA sole responsibility for a common civil-military system of air navigation and air traffic control. In July 2014, in the wake of the downing of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17, the FAA suspended flights by U.S. airlines to Ben Gurion Airport during the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict for 24 hours.
A Brief History of the FAA. The modern age of powered flight began in 1903 when Orville Wright made the first sustained, powered flight on December 17 in a plane he and his brother Wilbur built. The FAA had to certify every new airline, and there were hundreds of applications after deregulation that FAA had to review and approve or disapprove. In the immediate years after the deregulation act, FAA flight standards and other offices focused primarily on the new applicants.
To help enforce the act, a special corps of FAA safety inspectors began training for duty aboard airline flights. In March 1962, Attorney General Robert Kennedy swore in FAA's first peace officers, as special U.S. deputy marshals. These men worked as safety inspectors for the FAA flight standards organization and carried out their role as armed marshals on flights only when specifically requested to do so. The FAA had to certify every new airline, and there were hundreds of applications after deregulation that FAA had to review and approve or disapprove. In the immediate years after the deregulation act, FAA flight standards and other offices focused primarily on the new applicants.
Thanks to the work of FAA, over the past 50 years, aviation has become central to the way we live and do business, linking people from coast to coast and connecting America to the world. In fact, FAA has created the safest, most reliable, most efficient, and most productive air transportation system in the world. The FAA had to certify every new airline, and there were hundreds of applications after deregulation that FAA had to review and approve or disapprove. In the immediate years after the deregulation act, FAA flight standards and other offices focused primarily on the new applicants.
In 1958, the Federal Aviation Act created the FAA, an independent agency combining scattered safety responsibilities. Above: on November 1, 1958, Elwood R. Quesada took the oath as FAA's first Administrator. A retired Air Force general, Quesada had served as President Eisenhower's special aviation advisor. The Birth of FAA. As the age of jet airline travel approached, many Americans recognized the need for more concerted effort to safeguard civil aviation. A severe midair collision over the Grand Canyon in 1956 underscored this necessity
In the above photo, Quesada is standing beside a Naval officer at the NAFEC facility transfer ceremony in June 1958. The man seated second to the left of the podium is James T. Pyle, last Administrator of the CAA and soon to become the first Deputy Administrator of the nascent FAA. The Birth of FAA. As the age of jet airline travel approached, many Americans recognized the need for more concerted effort to safeguard civil aviation. A severe midair collision over the Grand Canyon in 1956 underscored this necessity