Like much of literary criticism I think the deconstructed caesar salad KY describes is a lot of smoke and little roast (one italian expression that comes to mind, or to take another, fried air-since anything, even hot air, tastes better when fried).
I have to tell you I did my first real deconstructed meal the other night where I was not catering to the kids. It was so easy, such an epiphany! My husband and I made Chicken Tikka Masala with browned cauliflower and frozen peas in it.
The Art of Deconstructed Food. Intermittent flavors of the constituent elements mingle with the remembered taste of unified chowder. Whenever anyone peers at their first deconstructed dish, ears perk, brows furrow, nostrils swell, and something unusual happens.
The problem is that deconstructed started life with a specific meaning, but has been degraded. Far too often, nowadays, it's what many seem to think: that you merely separate the dish into it's component parts. Technically, that would meet the standard definition of deconstruct. But in culinary terms, deconstruct means to break apart and then reconstruct in a new manner. Originally, deconstructed could be the epitomy of the chef's art. What it meant was that you took the ingredients, prepared them in a form different from the original, then recombined them again.
In the course of events restaurants started serving deconstructed food; that is, sums of parts: like the deconstructed Caesar salad (stacked romaine lettuce, an anchovy, an egg yolk, and some shaved Parmesan, in separate heaps on a plate),
However, my Grilled Chicken Club Salad is a fine example of a successfully deconstructed classic – the chicken club (or clubhouse) sandwich. At its worst, deconstruction can mean a classic dish is broken down into its individual components, and the components are just plopped on a dish.
For example, I once saw a deconstructed Ceasar salad that used molecular gastronomy techniques to create a totally different look and feel. The dressing, for instance, was turned into a gel disc that flowed apart when you passed your fork through it.