Anti-Federalists feared the nation was too large for the national government to respond to the concerns of people on a state and local basis. The Anti-Federalists were also worried that the original text of the Constitution did not contain a bill of rights. They wanted guaranteed protection for certain basic liberties, such as freedom of speech and trial by jury. A Bill of Rights was added in 1791. In part to gain the support of the Anti-Federalists, the Federalists promised to add a bill of rights if the Anti-Federalists would vote for the Constitution. Learn more about it by visiting the Student Center page on The Constitution and Rights. Those in favor of the Constitution. 
The Anti-Federalist Compromise. Anti-Federalists like Thomas Jefferson believed that a specific list of rights was crucial, especially to protect citizens in the future if the government became corrupt. To get the Constitution signed, the delegates agreed to add a Bill of Rights soon after ratification. The last two amendments in the Bill of Rights address some of the Federalist concerns by pointing out that the document is not a complete list of rights, and all rights not specifically granted to the federal government in the Constitution are reserved to the states or individuals.
They demanded a bill of rights that would spell out the immunities of individual citizens. Several state conventions in their formal ratification of the Constitution asked for such amendments; others ratified the Constitution with the understanding that the amendments would be offered. The anti-federalists wanted the individual rights as stated in the Declaration of Independence specifically included in the U.S. Constitution, thus the Bill of Rights as the first 10 Amendments to the Constitution. tuffy · 5 years ago.
(Answer #1). A Bill of Rights was added in 1791. In part to gain the support of the Anti-Federalists, the Federalists promised to add a bill of rights if the Anti-Federalists would vote for the Constitution. pohnpei397 | College Teacher | (Level 3) Distinguished Educator. 
That was it. After the Bill of Rights was added to the Constitution, the Anti-Federalists we're happy and the Constitution was signed. There was a much stronger government without the Articles of Confederation. Image by goodtextures: http://fav.me/d2he3r8. Patrick Henry.
The Anti-Federalists wanted to add a Bill of Rights to the Constitution because it would offset the power of the Federal government by protecting citizens rights. With a Bill of Rights added the the Constitution, the Federal government would not be too powerful, which is exactly what these. After the Bill of Rights was added to the Constitution, the Anti-Federalists we're happy and the Constitution was signed. There was a much stronger government without the Articles of Confederation. Image by goodtextures: http://fav.me/d2he3r8. Patrick Henry.
Report Abuse. The anti-federalists wanted the individual rights as stated in the Declaration of Independence specifically included in the U.S. Constitution, thus the Bill of Rights as the first 10 Amendments to the Constitution. tuffy · 5 years ago. Thumbs up
The Bill of Rights, 1789. As implicitly promised by the Federalists during the long ratification process, the first Congress under the new Constitution took up the challenge of constructing a bill of rights, and in September 1789 it proposed twelve amendments to the states for their approval.
The Bill of Rights was added to the Constitution in response to Anti-Federalist fears that the new government would take away the liberties of the people and the states. 
Why the Bill of Rights Was Added to the Constitution. At the Constitutional Convention of 1787, delegates rejected a motion made by George Mason, author of the Virginia Declaration of Rights (1776), to preface the Constitution of the United States with a bill of rights. 