What is the Digestive System? The digestive system is the system that helps the body digest food. It consists of the liver, the stomach, the gallbladder, the large intestine, the small intestine, the pancreas, the stomach, the rectum, and the esophagus. Together, these organs help food digest. 
The respiration and cardio vascular work together o make the body become alive. It does this by having 2 different system working in the body. The 2 are respiration and cardio … vascular system. the respiration system bring the air from outside the body through the mouth or nasal cavity. Circulatory system:   When food has been digested, the nutrients are absorbed in the blood through the small intestine. The absorption of nutrients into the circulatory system allows body cells to get nutrients. 54 people found this useful.
The digestive system breaks down food molecules into their component parts, which are then absorbed by the circulatory system in the small intestine and circulated throughout the body. The digestive system diffuses nutrients into the capillaries and then through the circulatory system. The small intestine has folds called villi, and the villi contain tiny projections called microvilli. The digestive system breaks down the food we eat into smaller nutrients which are moved throughout our bodies by the circulatory system. The respiratory system captures oxygen … from the air and releases toxic carbon dioxide to the air.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Nutrients that are extracted from food during digestion are absorbed by the circulatory system. Here's what http://digestive.niddk.nih.gov/ddiseases... 
Respiratory System. The respiratory system also works closely with all other systems of the body. The respiratory system provides oxygen for all body parts. It also removes carbon dioxide from the muscular, digestive, skeletal, circulatory, urinary and nervous systems. This system includes the nose, larynx, trachea and the lungs. Urinary System. The urinary system also works closely with all other systems of the body. It is used to clean blood from the body. This system cleans waste products from the skeletal, muscular, digestive, respiratory, circulatory and nervous systems. The system includes the kidneys and lower intestines.
The respiratory and Digestion system work together by..... The respiratory system and the circulatory system work together by.... The circulatory system and the digestion system wrk together by.... all the systams work together by... the circulatory system is the transportation of the blood throughout your bodyy. 
The digestive system work with the circulatory system by immediatly in the small intestine absorb the nutrients from our food and to put them to use but this is after the nutrients are broken down further by the liver (via the heptic portal) which is the first port of call for nutrients absorbed from the intestine. The main way in which the respiratory and the circulatory system work together is that the heart send blood to the lungs, which is then oxygenated, so the blood can then be sent to the rest of the body (after being pumped back through the heart).
The main way in which the respiratory and the circulatory system work together is that the heart send blood to the lungs, which is then oxygenated, so the blood can then be sent to the rest of the body (after being pumped back through the heart). The digestive system breaks down the food we eat into smaller nutrients which are moved throughout our bodies by the circulatory system. The respiratory system captures oxygen … from the air and releases toxic carbon dioxide to the air.