Kava is a plant that grows in the western Pacific. It was traditionally prepared as a drink and used for its psychoactive properties, including sedation, relaxation, and relief of anxiety. It is intoxicating but not addictive. It has become a popular supplement in the US, used to treat anxiety, depression, insomnia, stress, and menopausal symptoms. Until more is known, tell patients to avoid kava. Recommend routine liver function tests for patients who continue to use kava. It particularly warns against use in pregnancy or lactation. It also gives a long list of side effects, from minor gastrointestinal symptoms to serious reactions and kava dermopathy.
May 14, 2009 -- A water-soluble extract of the plant kava was found to be safe and highly effective for the short-term treatment of anxiety in a new study. But concerns about its long-term safety and the safety of other kava formulations remain. A decade ago, kava supplements were a popular alternative treatment for anxiety and related conditions, with U.S. sales approaching $50 million in 1998 alone. But they only use water-soluble extract and they only use the peeled root of the plant.. Sarris says he used a product that mirrored the traditional kava used by the Pacific Islanders as closely as possible in his study, published in Psychopharmacology.
Kava kava (Piper methysticum) has been used as a ceremonial drink in the Pacific Islands for hundreds of years. Some people report its effects are similar to alcohol. The roots are chewed or ground into a pulp and added to cold water. 
Kava has been used in the Pacific Islands where it is grown for centuries without evidence of liver problems, researcher Jerome Sarris, of Australia's University of Queensland tells WebMD. But they only use water-soluble extract and they only use the peeled root of the plant.. Sarris says he used a product that mirrored the traditional kava used by the Pacific Islanders as closely as possible in his study, published in Psychopharmacology.
Because it is impossible to say what – if any – dose of kava might be safe, you should not take kava unless you are under a doctor’s close supervision. Do not take kava unless you are under the supervision of a doctor, especially if you are being treated for any disease. Do not take kava with any prescription and non-prescription medications. Kava has been a drink for thousands of years in the Pacific Islands. 
Kava has been shown in more than a dozen placebo-controlled studies to be effective with good tolerability for treatment of generalized anxiety, with some evidence for stress, depression and insomnia. Kava is generally safe for short-term use but can in rare cases cause catastrophic damage to the liver. Thus, its use is very controversial, and the sources are split four to three on whether it should ever be recommended. Kava has the potential to interact with several drugs and medications. It is vitally important to discuss kava use with any prescribing physician. Alcohol, other sedatives, muscle relaxants, dopamine, haloperidol, acetaminophen, and benzodiazepines.
It also rates kava as “possibly unsafe:”. There are at least 68 reported cases of liver toxicity following kava use. The use of kava for as little as one to three months has resulted in the need for liver transplants, and even death. Until more is known, tell patients to avoid kava. Recommend routine liver function tests for patients who continue to use kava. It particularly warns against use in pregnancy or lactation. It also gives a long list of side effects, from minor gastrointestinal symptoms to serious reactions and kava dermopathy.
Kava is a plant native to the South Pacific. The root is used for medicine. There are some BIG safety concerns about kava. Many cases of liver damage and even some deaths have been traced to kava use. As a result, kava has been banned from the market in Switzerland, Germany, and Canada, and several other countries are considering similar action. Kava has been used for thousands of years by Pacific Islanders. Today in the South Pacific, kava is a popular social drink, similar to alcohol in Western societies. It also still has a role in rituals and ceremonies.
Kava kava is an herbal derived from roots of the plant Piper methysticum, which has been used for centuries as a recreational and ceremonial drink in Oceania and more recently in concentrated forms in herbal medications to treat anxiety and insomnia. 
Report Abuse. Kava, or kava kava, is a root found on South Pacific islands. Islanders have used kava as medicine and in ceremonies for centuries. Kava has a calming effect, producing brain wave changes similar to changes that occur with calming medications such as diazepam (such as Valium). Traditionally prepared as a tea, kava root is also available as a dietary supplement in powder and tincture forms. When taken for anxiety or stress, kava does not interfere with mental sharpness.