Directions. Preheat oven to 350 degrees. Place potatoes and garlic on a rimmed baking sheet. Drizzle with olive oil and season with salt and pepper. Toss to coat. Roast until dark golden brown, 30 to 45 minutes. During the last 5 minutes of roasting, increase the temperature to 500 degrees and sprinkle with rosemary. Remove from oven, and serve
Preheat oven to 425°F. In a large roasting pan, toss potatoes with olive oil, canola oil and thyme then spread out in a single layer. Roast, stirring every 10 minutes or so, until potatoes are crispy, browned and tender, about 1 1/4 hours. Transfer potatoes to a serving dish, sprinkle with salt and pepper and serve. 
Cook. Ready In. 1  Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (250 degrees C). 2  Place potatoes in a large roasting pan and toss with oil, salt, pepper, and rosemary until evenly coated. 3  Spread out potatoes in a single layer. 4  Bake in preheated oven for 20 minutes, stirring occasionally. 5  Serve immediately.
1 Preheat oven to 450 degrees F (250 degrees C). 2  Place potatoes in a large roasting pan and toss with oil, salt, pepper, and rosemary until evenly coated. 3  Spread out potatoes in a single layer. 4  Bake in preheated oven for 20 minutes, stirring occasionally. 5  Serve immediately. Ready In. 1 
Directions. Preheat oven to 425 degrees. Toss potatoes, oil, and rosemary on a rimmed baking sheet. Spread out potatoes in a single layer; season with salt and pepper. Roast, stirring once halfway through cooking, until potatoes are golden brown and crisp outside and tender inside, about 30 minutes. 
Season well with salt and pepper and drizzle oil on top. Toss all to combine and coat in oil. Place the potatoes in the oven and roast for about 30 to 40 minutes, shaking the baking sheet occasionally, until the potatoes are nicely browned and fork tender and the garlic cloves and shallots are caramelized.
Preheat the oven to 400 degrees F. Cut the potatoes in half or quarters and place in a bowl with the olive oil, salt, pepper, and garlic; toss until the potatoes are well coated. Transfer the potatoes to a sheet pan and spread out into 1 layer. Roast in the oven for 45 minutes to 1 hour or until browned and crisp. Flip twice with a spatula during cooking in order to ensure even browning. Remove the potatoes from the oven, toss with parsley, season to taste, and serve hot. Copyright 2001, Barefoot Contessa Parties!, All Rights Reserved.
1 Place in a large roasting pan. 2  Add water, cover and cook roast for 1 1/2 hours in a 325* oven. 3  Uncover and arrange vegetables around roast in pan. 4  Recover and cook for 2 1/2 to 3 hours longer or until meat and vegetables are both fork tender. Directions. 1  Sprinkle roast well with salt and pepper. 2  Place in a large roasting pan. 3  Add water, cover and cook roast for 1 1/2 hours in a 325* oven. 4  Uncover and arrange vegetables around roast in pan. 5