The Symptoms of UTI. Though most men show signs of a UTI and will experience some discomfort, not all males display symptoms. Symptoms may include a frequent urge to urinate and a painful, burning feeling in the vicinity of the bladder or urethra during urination.
Together, the presence of dysuria, urgency and frequency is 75 percent predictive of a urinary tract infection. However, not all men with a UTI experience these symptoms. Particularly in chronic UTI, older men or men with other medical problems, the first clues may be changes in the color, odor or consistency of urine. Normal urine is a light yellow color that varies with fluid intake.
Common Signs and Symptoms. Dysuria, the sensation of pain or discomfort during urination, is the most common symptom of urinary tract infection in men and women. Urgency is another symptom; you may feel an urgent need to visit the restroom, as if you’ve just downed a supersized beverage.
Men and women aren't created equal when it comes to getting urinary tract infections. Though one out of five women will develop a urinary tract infection (UTI) at some point in her life, most men will never have a UTI. In fact, only 20 percent of diagnosed urinary tract infections occur in men. Urinary tract infections are extremely rare in young men, but their risk does increase as a man ages; UTIs are more common in men after the age of 50.
A urinary tract infection (UTI) is caused by bacteria that get inside your urinary tract. Most bacteria that enter your urinary tract are expelled when you urinate. If the bacteria stay in your urinary tract, you may get an infection. Your urinary tract includes your kidneys, ureters, bladder, and urethra. Urine is made in your kidneys, and it flows from the ureters to the bladder.
Urinary tract infections (UTIs) are a serious health issue that affect millions of men each year. It is important that men with a urinary tract infection understand the causes and treatments for their infection. Urinary tract infections are the second most common type of infection in males and females.
How Urinary Tract Infections Are Treated in Men. A urinary tract infection occurs when bacteria (or, less commonly, a virus or even a fungus) enters the urinary tract. Whether the infection affects a man or a woman, the treatment is the same: a round of antibiotics to kill the bacteria and get rid of UTI symptoms.