In most cases psychologist sub-specialties will require a doctoral degree as the terminal degree and specific certifications, yet there are a few states and sub-specializations that allow for a master's degree in psychology to be the terminus. Doctoral level psychologists may be found working in academia, mental health, private practice, business, government as well as heading back to school for their post doc.
Clinical psychologists typically don’t use medication to treat disorders. If medication is needed for a particular disorder, the patient will usually be referred to another mental health professional, such as a psychiatrist. Different types of therapy are usually used as treatment options in clinical psychology instead. This can include cognitive behavioral therapy, family therapy, group therapy, and hypnotherapy
The field is often considered to have begun in 1896 with the opening of the first psychological clinic at the University of Pennsylvania by Lightner Witmer. In the first half of the 20th century, clinical psychology was focused on psychological assessment, with little attention given to treatment. This changed after the 1940s when World War II resulted in the need for a large increase in the number of trained clinicians. Employment for the field of clinical psychology is anticipated to grow 11% from 2012 to 2022 which is similar to growth for all other professions. Doctoral degree holders from a leading university in an applied specialty will face the best prospects.
Psychologists have several areas to specialize in ranging from clinically diagnosing various mental health, emotional or behavioral disorders to working in non-clinical practice environments such as research and even business. Doctoral level psychologists may be found working in academia, mental health, private practice, business, government as well as heading back to school for their post doc.
Clinical psychologists help people with mental or emotional problems adjust to life. Some help people cope with physical illnesses or injuries. Others help people facing crises such as divorce or the loss of a loved one. A clinical psychologist has specialised training in psychotherapy. A clinical psychologist is not a medical doctor and as such I do not prescribe medication. Rather I make use of conversation and listening as a tool to relieve emotional pain and discomfort. Visit the psychological services section for more information. What is Clinical Psychology. The field of Clinical Psychology integrates science, theory, and practice to understand, predict, and alleviate maladjustment, disability, and discomfort as well as to promote human adaptation, adjustment, and personal development.
Different types of psychologists. What is Clinical Psychology. The field of Clinical Psychology integrates science, theory, and practice to understand, predict, and alleviate maladjustment, disability, and discomfort as well as to promote human adaptation, adjustment, and personal development.
Education and Training. Clinical psychologists typically have a doctorate, usually a Psy.D. degree, which is a doctor of psychology. Some obtain a Ph.D., which is a doctor of philosophy. Their education often includes a one-year internship. Clinical psychologists work with patients who have mental, emotional and behavioral disorders. The field represents a prominent specialty within the broad field
Clinical psychologists provide psychotherapy, psychological testing, and diagnosis of mental illness. They generally train within four primary theoretical orientations: psychodynamic, humanistic, cognitive-behavioral (CBT), and systems or family therapy. Employment for the field of clinical psychology is anticipated to grow 11% from 2012 to 2022 which is similar to growth for all other professions. Doctoral degree holders from a leading university in an applied specialty will face the best prospects.
Clinical Psychology. Clinical psychology is the psychological specialty that provides continuing and comprehensive mental and behavioral health care for individuals and families; consultation to agencies and communities; training, education and supervision; and research-based practice. 
Clinical psychology is an integration of the science, theory and clinical knowledge for the purpose of understanding, preventing, and relieving psychologically-based distress or dysfunction and to promote subjective and behavioural well-being and personal development. Employment for the field of clinical psychology is anticipated to grow 11% from 2012 to 2022 which is similar to growth for all other professions. Doctoral degree holders from a leading university in an applied specialty will face the best prospects.