Organic Quinoa Flour (pronounced keen-wa) is the most nutritious grain available. Use in baked goods for a tender, moist crumb. Perfect for those on a gluten free diet.
Quinoa flour is made by grounding up the quinoa grain; (pronounced KEEN-wah), and turning into a very fine flour that is light and airy. Quinoa flour can be ground in a flour grinder at home, it can be purchased on-line, or you can find it at almost any health food store.
Quinoa flour is one of my favorite healthy flours. Quinoa tastes great and also adds a lightness to baked goods without using white flour. I often combine whole wheat flour and Quinoa flour to achieve a wonderful combination in my healthy baking recipes.
Organic Quinoa Flour (pronounced keen-wa) is one of the most nutritious grain flour available. Quinoa was a staple food for the South American Indians living in the high altitudes of the Andes Mountains and was recognized for its superior nutritional qualities.
Quinoa flour has a slightly sweet and nutty flour. It is gluten-free, a vegan food, and is wonderful to use when making healthy breakfast foods, healthy cookies and healthy muffins. The most amazing aspect of Quinoa, is the fact that Quinoa is a COMPLETE PROTEIN.
Print. A type of flour produced from grinding quinoa seeds into a powder. Quinoa flour is rich in protein and nutrients, especially amino acids. It contains about 17% high-quality protein, which is more than any other grain flour and is equivalent to milk in protein quality.
Quinoa flour is a flour produced from quinoa, a grain-like seed native to the Andes of South America. Quinoa is a somewhat unique grain, in that it has a very high protein content which made it a critical part of the Andean diet for centuries.
Quinoa is indigenous to South America, where it remains a dietary staple. Quinoa flour is often combined with tapioca, potato starch, and sorghum to create a gluten-free baking mix for cookies and other treats. Quinoa can be used to make a flour high in protein. Quinoa flour can be used in baked goods. Non-wheat pastas made from quinoa are a good alternative for those who require a gluten-free diet. Quinoa is native to the Andes.