You will typically begin to notice symptoms, such as a runny or stuffed-up nose, coughing or a scratchy throat about two or three days after you become infected with the virus that causes the common cold. Other symptoms of the common cold can include: sneezing, a fever, headaches, watery eyes and fatigue. A Dr. Lawrence W. Gooss, DO, Family Medicine, answered on behalf of HCA Virginia. It takes about two days to get a cold after exposure to the virus. In this video, Larry Gooss, DO, a family practice doctor at Chippenham & Johnston-Willis Hospitals, explains how virus can continue to live on surfaces.
Symptom Development. Cold symptoms usually develop within 2 to 3 days of exposure to the virus. However, a person may not know when he has been exposed to a cold virus because individuals may remain contagious after their symptoms disappear. Also, viruses that cause colds may exist on eating utensils and other surfaces. Cold symptoms vary by virus but commonly include a runny or stuffy nose, sneezing, coughing, a low-grade fever, headaches and muscle aches. While most colds do not result in serious illness, they are highly contagious.
A. It takes approximately 24-48 hours for initial symptoms to appear after exposure to the influenza virus. If you suspect you have the flu, seek medical treatment quickly. Tamiflu, if taken within the first 48 hours of symptoms occurring, can reduce the time it takes to heal and can reduce symptoms
It's easy to get cold quickly if you are outside in wet, windy, or cold weather. Cold temperature exposure can also happen if you spend time in a dwelling or other building that is not well heated during cold weather.  1 Frostnip usually affects skin on the face, ears, or fingertips. 
A cold usually begins with fatigue, a feeling of being chilled, sneezing, and a headache, followed in a couple of days by a runny nose and cough. Symptoms may begin within 16 hours of exposure and typically peak two to four days after onset. They usually resolve in seven to ten days but some can last for up to three weeks. The average duration of cough is 18 days and in some cases people develop a post-viral cough which can linger after the infection is gone. 
The fact that the person had a cold sore means 2 things. For the first, if you've ever had a cold sore before then you know that this is a virus and the time table can vary, but should be anywhere between 24 -72 hours. Up to 80% of people have been exposed to the virus, usually from kissing a relative or sharing a lipstick or drinking glass. If your partner did have a cold sore they'd be most contagious in the day before the blisters appeared (which is when the virus is shedding).
Answer by Cazmoore84. Confidence votes 414. From Exposure to SymptomsIt usually takes about 3-5 days, but It can take less than 9 hours, depending on the virus which caused it (there are 200 apparently which cause colds :). I drank some of my friend's Coke after he had been drinking from the bottle. Usually a cold virus take from 3-5 days but depending on the virus and the human body differences it can take less than a day. Some bodies attack the virus quickly giving you … symptoms faster.