The term business architecture is often used to mean an architectural description of an enterprise or a business unit, an architectural model, or the profession itself. People who develop and maintain business architecture are known as business architects. Business architecture is the bridge between the enterprise business model and enterprise strategy on one side, and the business functionality of the enterprise on the other side.
According to Wikipedia, business architecture is a part of an enterprise architecture related to a corporate business or an organization. A formal definition of the first meaning is defined by the Object Management Group’s Business Architecture Working Group as follows: This is why Business Architecture serves to properly align the organization within all its business units. Business Architecture reveals how an organization is structured and can clearly demonstrate how elements such as capabilities, processes, organization and information fit together.
Business architecture is the bridge between the enterprise business model and the enterprise strategy on one side, and the business functionality of the corporate business or organization on the other side. People who build business architecture are known as Business Architects. This is why Business Architecture serves to properly align the organization within all its business units. Business Architecture reveals how an organization is structured and can clearly demonstrate how elements such as capabilities, processes, organization and information fit together.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A business architect is a practitioner of business architecture, a discipline concerned with developing and maintaining business capabilities of the enterprise in line with the corporate strategy as well as contributing to the business strategy and plans. Given that the business architecture as a distinct discipline is relatively young, the role of a business architect is often relative to the organization. A business architect can operate on one or more levels of the organization depending on the level of maturity of the architecture practice within that organization.
Since a business architecture practice is closely related to the discipline of enterprise architecture in a way that it provides a foundation for the enterprise architecture, the role of a business architect is sometimes fulfilled by an enterprise architect. Given that the business architecture as a distinct discipline is relatively young, the role of a business architect is often relative to the organization. A business architect can operate on one or more levels of the organization depending on the level of maturity of the architecture practice within that organization.
Total votes: 0. I am often asked to describe the role of the Business Architect; the role is new enough that most Resource Managers do not have a job description on file. Of course, the answer depends on the context within which the question is asked. 
For each step of the business transformation plan, business architects contribute in development of a blueprint of the enterprise in order to promote a common understanding of the organization and alignment of strategic objectives with tactical demands. Given that the business architecture as a distinct discipline is relatively young, the role of a business architect is often relative to the organization. A business architect can operate on one or more levels of the organization depending on the level of maturity of the architecture practice within that organization.
Business architecture is defined as “a blueprint of the enterprise that provides a common understanding of the organization and is used to align strategic objectives and tactical demands.. People who develop and maintain business architecture are known as business architects. Business architecture is the bridge between the enterprise business model and enterprise strategy on one side, and the business functionality of the enterprise on the other side.
Before an enterprise undertakes a Business Architecture initiative, it must have a clear understanding of what it is and how it is defined. Perhaps by first parsing the term “Business Architecture,” and then characterizing it as a whole and complete term, one can bring clarity to its definition. Considering the above and thinking first in simple, conversational terms, the Business Architecture is a blueprint of the enterprise built using architectural disciplines to improve performance. This might suffice as a definition in casual conversations and discussions as it is easy to understand.