MIPIM (Le marche marché international des professionnels de’l) immobilier is an international property event hosted In, Cannes france Each. march The country is named “Country of Honour” and a series of conferences and events are held about it. Germany was named Country of Honour in 2012, Turkey was named as the 2013 Country of Honour, and in 2014, Brazil, Russia and Turkey were recognised as Countries of Honour.
MIPIM, the world’s leading property market, brings together the most influential players from all international property sectors-office, residential, retail, healthcare, sport, logistics and industrial, offering unrivalled access to the greatest number of development projects and sources of capital worldwide. 
Each year, MIPIM highlights a country which shows great development and achievement in the real estate industry. The country is named “Country of Honour” and a series of conferences and events are held about it. Germany was named Country of Honour in 2012, Turkey was named as the 2013 Country of Honour, and in 2014, Brazil, Russia and Turkey were recognised as Countries of Honour.
MIPIM 2014 was attended by 21,000 individuals and 2,225 exhibitors from 93 countries. The country is named “Country of Honour” and a series of conferences and events are held about it. Germany was named Country of Honour in 2012, Turkey was named as the 2013 Country of Honour, and in 2014, Brazil, Russia and Turkey were recognised as Countries of Honour.
- MIPIM Japan features a 1,000 m² showcase area to share your projects and solutions with leading market stakeholders and investors. . The Japan MLIT (Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism) is very pleased to support the launch of MIPIM Japan in May 2015 in Tokyo. 
MIPIM UK is the UK’s largest exhibition and conference for property professionals. It provides a market place for UK players and international investors to meet, discuss projects and opportunities and do business. 
The Online Database is an essential networking tool, specifically designed to help you schedule meetings, encourage interaction between you and other attending participants and companies and to get ahead with networking opportunities! The database doesn’t only help you to organise your show but it is an excellent opportunity to promote your company. Join the rest of the database community today by getting connected! Use the menu on the left to guide you through the database and ensure that your show is a full success.
MIPIM (Le marche marché international des professionnels de’l) immobilier is an international property event hosted In, Cannes france Each. March it is hosted By REED midem and includes an exhibition, area networking events and conference sessions over a period of 4. days The country is named “Country of Honour” and a series of conferences and events are held about it. Germany was named Country of Honour in 2012, Turkey was named as the 2013 Country of Honour, and in 2014, Brazil, Russia and Turkey were recognised as Countries of Honour.
Preparation is key for a successful MIPIM experience. My MIPIM brings you the right services and tools to help you easily plan your show from start to finish. Begin your MIPIM journey here. 
As a Forum for Global Property Innovation, MIPIM Japan enables Japanese real estate professionals to share their projects and know-how with the world and international stakeholders to source capital or new opportunities in Japan. 