Epiglottis. The epiglottis moves back and forth to prevent the passage of food and liquids into the lungs. The usual upright position of the epiglottis allows air to flow into the lungs and the larynx. When you swallow, the epiglottis flattens backward to cover the entrance to your larynx and prevent food from entering the lungs and windpipe.
* How The Epiglottis Works: When you swallow, a small flap-called the epiglottis-briefly covers the top of the windpip … e (or trachea) so that food goes the right way, into the digestive system, and not the wrong way, into the respiratory tract.
The epiglottis normally keeps this from happening. * How The Epiglottis Works: When you swallow, a small flap-called the epiglottis-briefly covers the top of the windpip … e (or trachea) so that food goes the right way, into the digestive system, and not the wrong way, into the respiratory tract.
The muscular action of swallowing closes the opening to the trachea by placing the larynx against the epiglottis. This prevents food and drink from entering the larynx and trachea, directing it instead into the esophagus.
Breathing and Swallowing. The respiratory system consists of several organs, including the mouth, nose, larynx, pharynx, trachea and the lungs. The larynx is the voice box, the pharynx is the throat and the trachea is the windpipe.
The epiglottis is a flap like structure that covers the trachea (pathway to the lungs) when one is swallowing.
1 When swallowing occurs, the trachea is covered by a flap called the epiglottis, which prevents food from entering the lungs. 2  The trachea splits into the left and right main stem bronchae. 3  These lead to the left and right lungs.
The structure of the throat is designed to prevent food from entering the lungs. Photo Credit matthewennisphotography/iStock/Getty Images. When food enters the lungs instead of the esophagus, it affects breathing and can cause choking and other problems. The structures inside the mouth and neck each have a distinct role in breathing, speaking and swallowing.