Chemical energy. Chemical Energy is energy stored in the bonds of chemical compounds (atoms and molecules). It is released in a chemical reaction, often producing heat as a by product (exothermic reaction) . Batteries, biomass, petroleum, natural gas, and coal are examples of stored chemical energy. Usually, once chemical energy is released from a substance, that substance is transformed into an entirely new substance.
the energy that is stored in the centre of an atom is called a neutron. the proton helps the neutron to store itself in the center. The electron is around it. Which is known … as nuclear energy. 1  The Periodic Table of Elements Life is sustained by a number of chemical elements. There are two types of energy stored in atoms: electrical and nuclear. Nuclear energy is stored within an atom's nucleus, while electrical energy is the flow of electrons. In … addition, the bonds between atoms in a molecule store chemical energy. 1 person found this useful.
POTENTIAL ENERGY. Energy that is stored up ready to be used in the future is called potential energy, because it has the potential (or ability) to do something useful later on. An object usually has potential energy because a force has moved it to a different position or changed it in some other way. 
Potential energy is stored energy. The potential energy stored in chemical compounds is Chemical Energy. Chemical energy is energy stored in the bonds of atoms and molecules. There are two types of energy stored in atoms: electrical and nuclear. Nuclear energy is stored within an atom's nucleus, while electrical energy is the flow of electrons. In … addition, the bonds between atoms in a molecule store chemical energy. 1 person found this useful.
Scientists can measure the amount of energy stored in foods using a device called a bomb calorimeter. With this technique, food is placed inside the calorimeter and heated until it burns. The excess heat released by the reaction is directly proportional to the amount of energy contained in the food. Complex organic food molecules such as sugars, fats, and proteins are rich sources of energy for cells because much of the energy used to form these molecules is literally stored within the chemical bonds that hold them together.
The energy in the food is stored in the form of chemical bonds. When the catabolic reactions occur nutrient molecules like glucose are broken down into smaller molecules and t … he energy thus released due to the breaking of chemical pond is conserved in the form of ATP. Light and heat are forms of energy, which come directly from the Sun. Plants, use the energy from sunlight to make food. Energy from the sun is stored in leaves, stems, roots and fruits. When an animal eats plants it gets the energy stored inside the plant.
It is energy that can be harnessed to do work. The water stored behind a dam has free energy. When allowed to fall through a turbine, it can generate electricity (another form of free energy). But for biologists, the most interesting form of free energy is the energy stored in chemical bonds. 
The dry wood is a store of chemical energy. As it burns in the fireplace, chemical energy is released and converted to thermal energy (heat) and light energy. Notice that the wood now turns into ashes (a new substance). Food is also a good example of stored chemical energy. It is released in a chemical reaction, often producing heat as a by product (exothermic reaction) . Batteries, biomass, petroleum, natural gas, and coal are examples of stored chemical energy. Usually, once chemical energy is released from a substance, that substance is transformed into an entirely new substance.
Waterfalls also have gravitational energy. C: Thermal and light energy from the sun is stored in plants as chemical and potential energy. When humans eat (plants) the stored energy is transfered to us. We use this energy to do work. D: Heat energy from the sun is transfered to water bodies. 
Here are some changes in energy from one form to another. Stored energy in a flashlight's batteries becomes light energy when the flashlight is turned on. Food is stored energy. It is stored as a chemical with potential energy. When your body uses that stored energy to do work, it becomes kinetic energy. If you overeat, the energy in food is not burned but is stored as potential energy in fat cells