If you are moving your cactus outside for the summer, be sure to place it in a position of partial shade for the first few weeks, and slowly move it to a sunnier location. A plant going directly outside into full sun will likely be scorched by the more intense light found outside the home. If you want small specimens (less than one inch above the ground), you will want to grow lithops, which is Greek for living rocks. Other cacti which mimic the appearance of rocks include titanopsis, lapidaria, penestraria and gibbaeum. Some cactus and succulent types can be used as pot plants.
The more rain your area gets, the more drainage you need. In super-wet regions, grow cacti in pots under a shelter such as a roof overhang. Likewise, never plant cacti in regular or clay soil as they can easily get too much water and die. Cactus plants do need some water. Not all prickly pears are hardy in cold-winter climates. Other cactus plants with cold-weather tolerance to Zones 5 or 6 include: 1  Cylindropuntia, called cholla, a prickly pear relative, grows with segmented cylindrical stems that can reach 10 feet tall.
GROWING OUTDOOR CACTI. Be sure the cactus you have chosen is hardy in your area and in your growing situation or that you are willing to experiment and chance losing the cacti. Plant as early in the season as possible to allow the cactus to become established before the next winter. Don’t let the cactus freeze hard at night during this time—cover or postpone planting until nights are slightly above freezing. Light freezes won’t hurt hardy cacti if they have been acclimated to freezing temperatures and are not growing. Plant in well-drained soil.
Take It Outside. In springtime, you can take your Christmas cactus outside in its pot as long as day and nighttime temperatures stay above 50 degrees Fahrenheit. But unlike desert cactuses, the Christmas cactus won’t tolerate the intense full summer sun. Full direct sun will give the plant severe sunburn. The Christmas cactus (Schlumbergera bridgesii) is a native of Brazil but is grown widely as a winter-flowering houseplant. In nature, it grows as an epiphyte in shady tropical rain forests.
Christmas cactus can be kept outdoors in summer in a shaded spot. The Christmas cactus (Schlumbergera bridgesii) is a native of Brazil but is grown widely as a winter-flowering houseplant. In nature, it grows as an epiphyte in shady tropical rain forests.
GROWING INDOOR CACTI. Many cacti and succulents are extremely well adapted to living in houses where the relative humidity is low (10-30 percent). They require only modest amounts of water and fertilizer, but do need abundant light. They should be placed in a bright, sunny window. Before watering your cactus, check to see if the soil is dry. Then water well, especially in the growing months (April through mid-September) and let the water drain off. In the winter, water sparingly — allow your cactus a rest.
In springtime, you can take your Christmas cactus outside in its pot as long as day and nighttime temperatures stay above 50 degrees Fahrenheit. But unlike desert cactuses, the Christmas cactus won’t tolerate the intense full summer sun. The Christmas cactus (Schlumbergera bridgesii) is a native of Brazil but is grown widely as a winter-flowering houseplant. In nature, it grows as an epiphyte in shady tropical rain forests.
Both the Christmas cactus and the poinsettia are not hardy outdoors and will freeze if planted outside. They should remain in their pots and not be planted outdoors in the garden if you live where it freezes in the winter. Repotting is a good idea for the poinsettia especially. Poinsettias can become rather large and need a large pot. Christmas cacti should be repotted when they become large. 
In most cases cactus will do well in pots as long as you remember three things. Food, light, water. Food. When you bring the plant home most of the time it is in a small pot and it probably has grown there for a long time, which means it has used up most of all the nutrients in the soil. This should do them well for the year. Light. A potted cactus will live and flower in the house if given enough light, place the plant near a bright lighted window, where it will receive light most of the day. On the patio is different place the cactus in a partly shaded area until it become accustom to the sun.
In fact, cactus plants are native only to North and South America. To successfully grow cacti in cold-winter climates, it's important to understand how they grow. All cacti are succulents -- plants that can store water in their roots, stems, and leaves. But not all succulents are cacti. It's sometimes difficult to tell which succulent is really a cactus. Not all prickly pears are hardy in cold-winter climates. Other cactus plants with cold-weather tolerance to Zones 5 or 6 include: 1  Cylindropuntia, called cholla, a prickly pear relative, grows with segmented cylindrical stems that can reach 10 feet tall.