Velocity is a vector quantity so both the magnitude and the direction of the object are required to define the velocity of the object. The speed and velocity of an object are interrelated terms. To understand it better, consider the following example. An object is moving at, say, 50 m/sec in northwest direction. Here, 50 m/sec is the speed of the object in the northwest direction. And “50 m/sec” is the magnitude of the velocity while the northwest is the direction in which the object is moving.
The velocity of an object is the rate of change of its position with respect to a frame of reference, and is a function of time. Velocity is equivalent to a specification of its speed and direction of motion, e.g. 7001166666666666666♠60 km/h to the north. Velocity is an important concept in kinematics, the branch of classical mechanics that describes the motion of bodies. Thus, a constant velocity means motion in a straight line at a constant speed.. For example, a car moving at a constant 20 kilometres per hour in a circular path has a constant speed, but does not have a constant velocity because its direction changes. Hence, the car is considered to be undergoing an acceleration.
Velocity is a vector measurement of the rate and direction of motion or, in other terms, the rate and direction of the change in the position of an object. The scalar (absolute value) magnitude of the velocity vector is the speed of the motion. 
The average velocity is always less than or equal to the average speed of an object. This can be seen by realizing that while distance is always strictly increasing, displacement can increase or decrease in magnitude as well as change direction. Thus, a constant velocity means motion in a straight line at a constant speed.. For example, a car moving at a constant 20 kilometres per hour in a circular path has a constant speed, but does not have a constant velocity because its direction changes. Hence, the car is considered to be undergoing an acceleration.
Velocity is a physical vector quantity; both magnitude and direction are needed to define it. The scalar absolute value (magnitude) of velocity is called speed, a quantity that is measured in metres per second (m/s or m⋅s −1) in the SI (metric) system. Thus, a constant velocity means motion in a straight line at a constant speed.. For example, a car moving at a constant 20 kilometres per hour in a circular path has a constant speed, but does not have a constant velocity because its direction changes. Hence, the car is considered to be undergoing an acceleration.
Part of the IT standards and organizations glossary: Velocity is a vector expression of the displacement that an object or particle undergoes with respect to time. The standard unit of velocity magnitude (also known as speed) is the meter per second (m/s). Alternatively, the centimeter per second (cm/s) can be used to express velocity magnitude. 
Velocity as a Vector Quantity. Velocity is a vector quantity that refers to the rate at which an object changes its position.. Imagine a person moving rapidly-one step forward and one step back-always returning to the original starting position. While this might result in a frenzy of activity, it would result in a zero velocity. If an object is moving rightwards, then its velocity is described as being rightwards. If an object is moving downwards, then its velocity is described as being downwards. So an airplane moving towards the west with a speed of 300 mi/hr has a velocity of 300 mi/hr, west.
Velocity. The average speed of an object is defined as the distance traveled divided by the time elapsed. Velocity is a vector quantity, and average velocity can be defined as the displacement divided by the time. For the special case of straight line motion in the x direction, the average velocity takes the form: Go Back. The average speed of an object is defined as the distance traveled divided by the time elapsed. Velocity is a vector quantity, and average velocity can be defined as the displacement divided by the time. For the special case of straight line motion in the x direction, the average velocity takes the form:
Velocity is the rate at which an object changes its position. It is a vector quantity. The direction of velocity is the direction in which the object is moving. The absolute value or the magnitude of velocity is speed. Velocity can also be defined as the displacement of an object in a specified direction. If the object returns to its starting point then its velocity is zero