Contrasting with this, a patient purchasing a box of 3 Lantus Solostar pens, each of which contains 3 mL of insulin glargine, can use 1 pen every 28 days. Although the cost of the box of Lantus Solostar pens is approximately $400, no medication is wasted, and the cost to insurers is similar to the cost of the vial. Of these cases, more than 90% are cases of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and at least 1 million are estimated to be cases of type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM). Although a variety of oral medications are available for patients with diabetes, insulins remain an important component of treatment.
See Prices. Humalog 50/50 (insulin lispro) is a mix of long-and short-acting insulins used to treat diabetes mellitus, including diabetes type 1 and diabetes type 2. It replaces or supplements the insulin made by the body to help control blood sugar levels, and the mix allows twice-daily dosing with a faster effect. See Prices. Lantus (insulin glargine) is a long-acting insulin analogue that replaces or supplements the insulin made by the body. Insulin helps to control blood sugar levels in
Lantus costs around $120 at Sams club without insurance. Syringes cost around $25 per 100. My copay is 50%. My daily dosage is 24 units. but others take anywhere from a few units to over 100. Some also take fast acting insulins like Humalog which is about the same price as the Lantus. 
I am curious what other insulin users are ending up paying for insulin. With my insurance I'm currently paying $15.00 for 1500 units of Lantus or Humalog in Pen injectors at the local Walgreens. A box of pens (5 x 300units each) lasts me just about a month. That works out to a penny a unit. If I use the mail in pharmacy it would be $30 for 3 months or 2/3 of a cent/unit. Of course you need to add in about $30/100 pen needles on top of the med cost. I think the going price for a box of 5 pens without insurance is somewhere in the $230-$250 range. For those without insurance or with a huge deductible it would end up being a huge cost over time. -Ray.
Report This | Share this:Anyone know the cost the Lantus Insulin Pen Or....My insurance won't cover my Lantus Solostar Pens; I pay $183.20 for a box of five. I also take Victoza at a whopping $372.15 out-of-pocket (same insurance won't cover it). Report This | Share this:Anyone know the cost the Lantus Insulin Pen Or....I think what auriga was saying is that the cost for both insulins (in pen form) is around $240. That is what the manufacturers set the price at. The Copay is what he pays, his insurance pays the rest.
See Prices. Humulin 70/30 (insulin human) is a mix of long-and short-acting insulins used to treat diabetes mellitus, including diabetes type 1 and diabetes type 2. It replaces or supplements the insulin made by the body to help control blood sugar levels, and the mix allows twice-daily dosing with a faster effect. See Prices. Lantus (insulin glargine) is a long-acting insulin analogue that replaces or supplements the insulin made by the body. Insulin helps to control blood sugar levels in
1 Insulin pens: pens may be prefilled and disposable, or refillable (with insulin cartridges), although most pens are disposable. 2  In both cases, each pen contains 3 mL of insulin. 3  A very short, very thin needle is attached to the pen before a subcutaneous injection is administered. Of these cases, more than 90% are cases of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and at least 1 million are estimated to be cases of type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM). Although a variety of oral medications are available for patients with diabetes, insulins remain an important component of treatment.
See Prices. Novolog 70/30 (insulin aspart) is a mix of long-and short-acting insulins used to treat diabetes mellitus, including diabetes type 1 and diabetes type 2. It replaces or supplements the insulin made by the body to help control blood sugar levels, and the mix allows twice-daily dosing with a faster effect. See Prices. Lantus (insulin glargine) is a long-acting insulin analogue that replaces or supplements the insulin made by the body. Insulin helps to control blood sugar levels in
1 Typically, insulin vials contain 10 mL of insulin at a concentration of 100 units/mL. 2  Insulin pens: pens may be prefilled and disposable, or refillable (with insulin cartridges), although most pens are disposable. 3  In both cases, each pen contains 3 mL of insulin. Of these cases, more than 90% are cases of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and at least 1 million are estimated to be cases of type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM). Although a variety of oral medications are available for patients with diabetes, insulins remain an important component of treatment.
Prescription costs for the syringe were lower than those for the pen ($535 vs. $670), and the cost of a pen itself was higher than the cost of a syringe ($840 vs. $0.). While the pen is initially more expensive than the syringe, in the long run it could considerably reduce overall healthcare costs, Balkrishnan said. 