Meaning of Rui. French name. In French, the name Rui means-regal.The name Rui originated as an French name. The name Rui is most often used as a boy name or male name. French Name Meaning-regal. Origin-France. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special!
If you consider naming your baby Rui we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day. Searching for a name is a very important and fun process as it’s the very first gift you will give to your baby. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Rui and its name origin or of any other name in our database.
Amongst its other meanings, Rui is a common Portuguese first name, also spelled Ruy and cognate with Roderick and Rodrick. 
Rui /rui/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name is pronounced ROO-ee. It is of Japanese origin, and the meaning of Rui is tears; affection . Kreatif forms: Rorui, Ruima, Ruiro. Variations. Rui is an uncommon first name for women but a somewhat popular last name for both adults and children (#123314 out of 150436, Top 82%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Rui for girls
Rui is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 3 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Rui. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 4987 in baby name popularity for boys with 19 occurrences. Less than 5 girls were given the name. 
French Meaning: The name Rui is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Rui is: Regal. SoulUrge Number: 3. Expression Number: 3. People with this name have a deep inner desire to create and express themselves, often in public speaking, acting, writing or singing. They also yearn to have beauty around them in their home and work environment.
Meanings and history of the name Rue: | Edit. A traditional English name, literally meaning regret.. Rue is also the name of an herb. Also, it is the French word for street or road, much nicer sounding than regret. Especially if one calls to mind the lovely streets of Paris. Could also be short for Ruth. There is also the teen clothing franchise Rue21.
Tweet. [ 2 syll. rui, ru-i ] The baby boy name Rui is pronounced as R UW-iy-or RW IY - †. Rui's language of origin is Germanic and it is used mainly in the Portuguese language. Rui is a Portuguese contraction of Rodrigo (English, Hungarian, Italian, Portuguese, and Spanish) and a variant transcription of Roderick (English and German). Rui is unusual as a baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names. Among the group of boy names directly linked to Rui, Rodrigo was the most popular in 2012.
The different meanings of the name Rui are: The meaning of the name “Rui” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Rui and its name origin or of any other name in our database.