A Doctor of Philosophy of the University of Oxford in full academic dress. A Doctor of Philosophy degree (often abbreviated Ph.D. , PhD, D.Phil. , or DPhil) or a Doctorate of Philosophy, from the Latin Doctor Philosophiae, is a type of doctorate awarded by universities in many countries. In the context of academic degrees, the term philosophy does not refer solely to the field of philosophy, but is used in a broader sense in accordance with its original Greek meaning, which is love of wisdom.
MSc is a Master of Science degree. Typically, the difference between the BA and BS is that with a BA, you may go on to an advanced degree. With a BS, this is considered the terminal degree. Similarly, with the MA and MS (or MSc) degrees. It entails both academics and research. It's mainly used to pursue and academic career. MD is a doctorate of medicine. It is considered a professional degree and obviously, it's used to practice medicine. Sometime people will pursue a JD, juris doctorate, as well and practice law with a medical background.
Brief definition. In the UK, a PhD stands for ‘Doctor of Philosophy’, sometimes referred to as a ‘doctorate’. It is the highest level of degree that a student can achieve. At some institutions, including Oxford University, a Doctor of Philosophy is known as a DPhil. 
PhD is a doctorate of philosophy. It entails both academics and research. It's mainly used to pursue and academic career. MD is a doctorate of medicine. It is considered a professional degree and obviously, it's used to practice medicine. Sometime people will pursue a JD, juris doctorate, as well and practice law with a medical background. It requires both academics and residencies (practicing medicine under supervision)
What Does Ph.D. Ph.D. stands for Doctor of Philosophy. A Ph.D. is the terminal degree for many subjects in the United States. This article provides information about this degree and how it is earned. View 10 Popular Schools ».
A Master of Science degree (Latin: Magister Scientiae; abbreviated M.S. , MS, M.Sc. , MSc, M.Sci. , MSci, S.M. , Sc.M. , or Sci.M.) is a type of master's degree awarded by universities in many countries. The degree is usually contrasted with the Master of Arts degree. The Master of Science degree is typically granted for studies in the sciences or engineering or medicine, and is usually for programs that are more focused on scientific and mathematical subjects. In Ireland, Master of Science (MSc) may be course-based with a research component, or entirely research based. The program is most commonly a one-year program and a thesis is required for both course based and research based degrees.
The highest degree you can earn in most liberal arts disciplines is a PhD, or Doctor of Philosophy. However, clinical and counseling psychologists earn a PsyD, Doctor of Psychology nomenclature; medical students earn M.D. degrees and law students can earn J.D. (Juris Doctor) degrees. Associate of Science. Similar to the A.A., the associate of science degree is the culmination of a two-year academic program. The A.S. is usually awarded to junior college students enrolled in science or tech-related programs.
The Master of Science (M.Sc.) is an academic degree for a post-graduate candidates or researchers, it usually takes from 2 to 3 years after passing The Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) degree. Master programs is awarded in many sciences in the Egyptian Universities. In Ireland, Master of Science (MSc) may be course-based with a research component, or entirely research based. The program is most commonly a one-year program and a thesis is required for both course based and research based degrees.
For me, I see an MSc as an intro to science. I don't mean that in a condescending way or to imply that a BSc (including undergrad research) doesn't give you a feel for science, but an MSc degree is the first time many students have some ownership of a project and need to plan things.
Best Answer: PhD means doctor of philosophy MSc is master of science if u did medcine, u would have MBBS, which is a double degree in medicine and science. 