A urinary tract infection (UTI) is an infection involving the kidneys, ureters, bladder, or urethra. These are the structures that urine passes through before being eliminated from the body. 1 The lower urinary tract consists of the bladder and the urethra. 2  Infection in the lower urinary tract can affect the urethra (urethritis) or the bladder (cystitis).
A urine infection is often called a urinary tract infection (UTI) by doctors. When the infection is just in the bladder and urethra, this is called a lower UTI. If it travels up to affect one or both kidneys as well then it is called an upper UTI. This can be more serious than lower UTIs, as the kidneys can become damaged by the infection. This leaflet only deals with urine infections in men.
In young children, the only symptom of a urinary tract infection (UTI) may be a fever. Because of the lack of more obvious symptoms, when females under the age of two or uncircumcised males less than a year exhibit a fever, a culture of the urine is recommended by many medical associations. Symptoms from a lower urinary tract include painful urination and either frequent urination or urge to urinate (or both); while the symptoms of pyelonephritis include fever and flank pain in addition to the symptoms of a lower UTI.
The urinary tract consists of two kidneys, two ureters, a bladder, and a urethra. The kidneys are bean-shaped organs found in the lower back below the ribcage. They filter waste out of the blood and produce urine to carry the wastes and excess water out of the body. Urethritis is an inflammation and/or infection of the urethra. Bladder involvement is called cystitis, and when one or more of the kidneys are inflamed or infected, it is called pyelonephritis.
Male urinary system. A urinary tract infection (UTI) is an infection in any part of your urinary system — your kidneys, ureters, bladder and urethra. Most infections involve the lower urinary tract — the bladder and the urethra. Women are at greater risk of developing a UTI than men are. Infection limited to your bladder can be painful and annoying. However, serious consequences can occur if a UTI spreads to your kidneys.
A urinary tract infection (UTI) is an infection of any part of the urinary system. 2 Most infections involve the lower urinary tract. The urinary tract is comprised of the bladder, kidneys, ureters and urethra. Urinary tract infections are the second most common type of infection in the body and account for around 8.1 million visits to health care providers each year.
The most common UTIs occur mainly in women and affect the bladder and urethra. 1  Infection of the bladder (cystitis). 2  This type of UTI is usually caused by Escherichia coli (E. coli), a type of bacteria commonly found in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. 3  However, sometimes other bacteria are responsible. Causes. Urinary tract infections typically occur when bacteria enter the urinary tract through the urethra and begin to multiply in the bladder. Although the urinary system is designed to keep out such microscopic invaders, these defenses sometimes fail.
A urinary tract infection (UTI), also known as acute cystitis or bladder infection, is an infection that affects part of the urinary tract. Symptoms from a lower urinary tract include painful urination and either frequent urination or urge to urinate (or both); while the symptoms of pyelonephritis include fever and flank pain in addition to the symptoms of a lower UTI.
Lower urinary tract infection is also referred to as a bladder infection. The most common symptoms are burning with urination and having to urinate frequently (or an urge to urinate) in the absence of vaginal discharge and significant pain. Symptoms from a lower urinary tract include painful urination and either frequent urination or urge to urinate (or both); while the symptoms of pyelonephritis include fever and flank pain in addition to the symptoms of a lower UTI.
As a rule, the farther up in the urinary tract the infection is located, the more serious it is. 1  The upper urinary tract is composed of the kidneys and ureters. 2  Infection in the upper urinary tract generally affects the kidneys (pyelonephritis), which can cause fever, chills, nausea, vomiting, and other severe symptoms. 1 The lower urinary tract consists of the bladder and the urethra. 2  Infection in the lower urinary tract can affect the urethra (urethritis) or the bladder (cystitis).