A variant of Chinese whispers is called rumors. In this version of the game, when players transfer the message, they deliberately change one or two words of the phrase (often to something more humorous than the previous message). Intermediate messages can be compared. Errors typically accumulate in the retellings or as many studies have shown, people have a intentional or unintentional knack for embellishing messages (stories) when they repeat it, so the statement announced by the last player differs significantly, and often amusingly, from the one uttered by the first.
That's why I think it's a cultural thing, because I've always grown up referring to it as 'Chinese whispers', and it's commonly used in general terms as 'a series of conversations where the message may be garbled as it passes from one person to the next'. Not a dictionary definition, but just how it's used colloquially. I don't think it's racist. If it were called Chinky whispers, however, that'd be different. Edit: I remember learning the game from my grandmother, who learned it from her mother, as Chinese Whispers. Home telephones were very unusual when she was a child.
When you codify that racism, then yes, it’s still racist. “chinese whispers” is an insult to all chinese. So, yeah, it’s racist. Just use “telephone” instead, without the added racial insult added. Also, I’ve only ever heard “hokey pokey”. From what you see, you can be fairly sure even if “Chinese Whisper” wasn’t meant to be racist, most of us Chinese do take it as it is. It is safe to say that whatever phrases that contains any possibility for it being racist is best left unspoken/ unused.
Report Abuse. Chinese whispers[1], Russian Scandal[1] or Telephone is a game in which each successive participant secretly whispers to the next a phrase or sentence whispered to them by the preceding participant. I don't want to be offensive-but I also get aggravated by the ultra-PC, so I just want to know what people think. Incidentally: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chinese_whi... explains what Chinese Whispers means to Brits.
Chinese whispers (or telephone in the United States) is a game played around the world, in which one person whispers a message to another, which is passed through a line of people until the last player announces the message to the entire group. Errors typically accumulate in the retellings or as many studies have shown, people have a intentional or unintentional knack for embellishing messages (stories) when they repeat it, so the statement announced by the last player differs significantly, and often amusingly, from the one uttered by the first.
Post by Thror. It was Chinese whispers when I played it in class. I think it refers to the errors in translation when using an unfamiliar foreign language, which makes plenty of sense to me. I don't think It's all Greek to me is racist either. I don't think it's racist. If it were called Chinky whispers, however, that'd be different. Edit: I remember learning the game from my grandmother, who learned it from her mother, as Chinese Whispers. Home telephones were very unusual when she was a child.
I think the term ‘chinese whispers’ is offensive in the same way that the term ‘dutch courage’ can be used to imply that the dutch are cowards unless they are intoxicated. The truth is, we are living in a global, multicultural society where we determine our own destinies. Power to the individual, i say. From what you see, you can be fairly sure even if “Chinese Whisper” wasn’t meant to be racist, most of us Chinese do take it as it is. It is safe to say that whatever phrases that contains any possibility for it being racist is best left unspoken/ unused.
Asians aren't Oriental. A rug is oriental. Not a person. As for Chinese Whispers, I don't even know what that means nor have I heard of it, so I'll let a Chinese or Asian person answer that one. I don't want to be offensive-but I also get aggravated by the ultra-PC, so I just want to know what people think. Incidentally: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chinese_whi... explains what Chinese Whispers means to Brits.
Whether or not that was what the person saying it meant, anytime you throw in a place or group of people, it is definitely opening a can of worms. Edit: As Interest said, I didn't even know 'Chinese Whispers' to be a name for that game. I don't think it's racist. If it were called Chinky whispers, however, that'd be different. Edit: I remember learning the game from my grandmother, who learned it from her mother, as Chinese Whispers. Home telephones were very unusual when she was a child.
photo credit: Secrets (license). We have a TEFL teaching activity on our site called Chinese Whispers or Telephone. Some say it’s a demeaning and offensive title, if not outright racist.