Best Answer: The modern word, guitar, was adopted into English from Spanish guitarra, derived from earlier Greek word kithara. The word guitar is a Persian loanword to Iberian Arabic. The word qitara is an Arabic name for various members of the lute family that preceded the Western guitar. The name guitarra was introduced into Spanish when such instruments were brought into Iberia by the Moors after the 10th century.
A person who makes or fixes guitars is a luthier, which comes from the word  lute . The word lute, comes from the Arabic Al-Uud, a stringed instrument from the Middle East. The guitar appears to be derived from earlier instruments known in ancient central Asia as the Sitara. This is because they do not use acoustics to amplify the sound. Most guitars have six strings, but there are also guitars with four, seven, eight, ten, or twelve strings. More strings make the instrument sound fuller. The neck of a guitar has bars or marks called frets.
Guitars have been around longer than most people realize... The guitar's roots are in Spain. Realistically, it cannot be traced back further than the 15th Century. It is thought to have been invented by the people of Malaga. This early instrument was a four course guitar, from which the ukulele is derived. The first guitars were very small, and were originally strung with four pair of strings. Each pair was call a course. During the Renaissance, the guitar never had the respect the lute enjoyed
Guitar Another Instrument The guitar is a stringed instrument related to the lute, which was a fretted stringed instrument popular from the fifteenth through the seventeenth century. The lute was used as both a solo instrument as well as an accompaniment to singers, much as the guitar is today. Another Instrument.
For the first harmonic, the wavelength is twice the length. This relationship is derived from the diagram of the standing wave pattern (and was explained in detail in Lesson 4). This relationship, which works only for the first harmonic of a guitar string, is used to calculate the wavelength for this standing wave. Now that the wavelength is found, the length of the guitar string can be calculated. For the first harmonic, the length is one-half the wavelength. This relationship is derived from the diagram of the standing wave pattern (and was explained in detail in Lesson 4).
The playing of (3-5 string) guitar chords is simplified by the class of alternative tunings called regular tunings, in which the musical intervals are the same for each pair of consecutive strings. Regular tunings include major-thirds tuning, all-fourths, and all-fifths tunings. For a six-string guitar in standard tuning, it may be necessary to drop or omit one or more tones from the chord; this is typically the root or fifth. The layout of notes on the fretboard in standard tuning often forces guitarists to permute the tonal order of notes in a chord.
by Paul Guy. The guitar is an ancient and noble instrument, whose history can be traced back over 4000 years. Many theories have been advanced about the instrument's ancestry. It has often been claimed that the guitar is a development of the lute, or even of the ancient Greek kithara. The oldest preserved guitar-like instrument. At 3500 years old, this is the ultimate vintage guitar! It belonged to the Egyptian singer Har-Mose. He was buried with his tanbur close to the tomb of his employer, Sen-Mut, architect to Queen Hatshepsut, who was crowned in 1503 BCE.
Back to Handbook A Brief History of the Guitar by Paul Guy The guitar is an ancient and noble instrument, whose history can be traced back over 4000 years. Many theories have been advanced about the instrument's ancestry. It has often been claimed that the guitar is a development of the lute, or even of the ancient Greek kithara. The oldest preserved guitar-like instrument. At 3500 years old, this is the ultimate vintage guitar! It belonged to the Egyptian singer Har-Mose. He was buried with his tanbur close to the tomb of his employer, Sen-Mut, architect to Queen Hatshepsut, who was crowned in 1503 BCE.
The guitar is a string instrument which is played by plucking the strings. The main parts of a guitar are the body, the fretboard, the headstock and the strings. Guitars are usually made from wood or plastic. Their strings are made of steel or nylon. The guitar strings are plucked with the fingers and fingernails of the right hand (or left hand, for left handed players), or a small pick made of thin plastic. This is because they do not use acoustics to amplify the sound. Most guitars have six strings, but there are also guitars with four, seven, eight, ten, or twelve strings. More strings make the instrument sound fuller. The neck of a guitar has bars or marks called frets.