Woody angiosperms have also vessels. The mature tracheids form a column of superposed, cylindrical dead cells whose end walls have been perforated, resulting in a continuous tube called vessel (trachea) . Tracheids are found in all vascular plants and are the only conducting elements in gymnosperms and ferns. Tracheids have Pits on their end walls. Pits are not nearly as efficient for water translocation as Perforation Plates found in vessel elements. 
Thank you... In plants xylem and phloem are the complex tissues which are the components parts of conductive system. In higher plants xylem contains tracheids, vessels (tracheae), xylem fibres(wood fibres) and xylem parenchyma (wood parenchyma). Tracheids These are elongated narrow tube like cells with hard thick and lignified walls with large cell cavity. 
Tracheid of oak shows pits along the walls. It is longer than a vessel element and has no perforation plates. Tracheids are elongated cells in the xylem of vascular plants that serve in the transport of water and mineral salts. Tracheids are one of two types of tracheary elements, vessel elements being the other. Tracheids, unlike vessel elements, do not have perforation plates. Tracheids provide most of the structural support in softwoods, where they are the major cell type. Because tracheids have a much higher surface to volume ratio compared to vessel elements, they serve to hold water against gravity (by adhesion) when transpiration is not occurring.
There are two types of cells that make up the xylem: tracheids and vessel elements. Both of these cell types are dead when they are used in the xylem. Using dead cells, which don’t have organelles filling them up, allows more capacity for transporting water. Tracheids are long, narrow cells whose ends overlap. Xylem and phloem make up the vascular tissue. The vascular tissue is arranged in bundles, and is easy to see in a cross-section of a stem: Another important tissue is the dermal tissue, which is the outer protective layer. Plants don’t have skin exactly, but they do have an epidermis.
Summary: Vessels have perforations at the end plates while tracheids do not have end plates. Tracheids are derived from single individual cells while vessels are derived from a pile of cells. Tracheids are present in all vascular plants whereas vessels are confined to angiosperms. Tracheids are thin whereas vessel elements are wide. Tracheids have a much higher surface-to-volume ratio as compared to vessel elements. Vessels are broader than tracheids with which they are associated. Morphology of the perforation plate is different from that in tracheids.
13. The main cells of xylem are tracheids and vessel elements (these are only in found in angiosperms). Tracheids and vessel elements are dead cells that have lost their cytoplasm. Only their cell wall impregnated with lignin (an impermeable biopolymer) remains. 
Tracheid. a dead lignified plant cell that functions in water conduction. Tracheids are found in the xylem of all higher plants except certain angiosperms, such as cereals and sedges, in which the water-conducting function is performed by vessels, or tracheae. Tracheids are usually polygonal in cross section; their walls have annular, spiral, or scalene thickenings or rimmed pores.
In biology, tissue is a cellular organizational level intermediate between cells and a complete organ. A tissue is an ensemble of similar cells from the same origin that together carry out a specific function. Organs are then formed by the functional grouping together of multiple tissues. 
Parenchyma is an example of a simple tissue (composed only of parenchyma cells); xylem is an example of a complex tissue (composed of tracheids, vessel members, parenchyma cells, and sometimes fibers). Tissues are organized into three tissue systems: the dermal, vascular, and ground systems. 
While parenchyma cells do occur within what is commonly termed the xylem the more identifiable cells, tracheids and vessel elements, tend to stain red with Safranin-O. Tracheids are the more primitive of the two cell types, occurring in the earliest vascular plants. Tracheids are long and tapered, with angled end-plates that connect cell to cell. Vessel elements are shorter, much wider, and lack end plates. 