Government. Argentina is composed of 23 provinces and one federal district (Buenos Aires). It is governed by the 1853 constitution as revised in 1898 and 1994, and has a federal system of government. The president and vice president are elected by popular vote for four-year terms and can be reelected once. The popularly elected bicameral national congress is composed of 72 senators (three from each province and the federal district), who serve six-year terms, and 257 deputies (based on proportional representation), who serve four-year terms.
Reciprocity Fees are delivered within 5 minutes24 hours a day, 7 days a week. If you are from the United States, Canada or Australia and wishing to visit Argentina, you don't need a Visa, but rather you need the Argentina Reciprocity Fee. The fee has to be paid online prior to your arrival. Cash payment will not be accepted at the Argentinian airports.
Disclaimer: We are not owned or affiliated with the Government of Argentina. We are a visa processing company that saves you time and frustration. Our service fee is only $20/visa. You can obtain the Reciprocity Fee directly from the government of Argentina without paying a service fee. Our system is completely online and easy to use.
Citizens from USA, Canada and Australia that travel to Argentina must pay a Reciprocity Fee in advance. This Reciprocity Fee is a pdf document that together with a valid passport are the requirements to enter into the country. At this user-friendly and secure website you can apply for the Reciprocity Fee in two simple steps by filling an easy online form and receive the documentation in your email. AR Management is not affiliated to the Argentine Government where you can get the Reciprocity Fee at a lower price.
The president is the head of state, chief executive of the federal government, and commander-in-chief of the armed forces. The vice president replaces the president in case of absence, incapability, death, or resignation and also acts as the president of the senate. The president is elected by qualified majority. Diplomatic efforts to assert its sovereign claim over the Falklands (Malvinas) form a continuing point of focus for Argentine foreign policy. Argentina is an active member of the United Nations system and served a 3-year term on the UN Human Rights Council that ended June 2011.
The government of Argentina, functioning within the framework of a federal system, is a presidential representative democratic republic. The President of Argentina is both head of state and head of government. Executive power is exercised by the President. Legislative power is vested in both the Executive and the National Congress. The Judiciary is independent from the Executive and from the Legislature.
Government Name: Argentine Republic. Constitution: Adopted: 1853; This is one of the primary sources of existing law in Argentina and discusses declarations, rights, and guarantees; form of government; and divisions of government powers. Government Type: Republic. Diplomatic efforts to assert its sovereign claim over the Falklands (Malvinas) form a continuing point of focus for Argentine foreign policy. Argentina is an active member of the United Nations system and served a 3-year term on the UN Human Rights Council that ended June 2011.
1 Argentina: Government-Government Argentina is composed of 23 provinces and one federal district (Buenos Aires). It is governed by the 1853 constitution as revised in 1898 and 1994, and has a federal system of government. The president and vice president are elected by popular vote for four-year terms and can be reelected once. The popularly elected bicameral national congress is composed of 72 senators (three from each province and the federal district), who serve six-year terms, and 257 deputies (based on proportional representation), who serve four-year terms.
Disclaimer. Please note that this Website is neither owned nor affiliated with the Argentina Government. We assist travelers with their Argentina Reciprocity Fee for a service fee, providing a secure US based transaction free of international credit card charges. However, you can also apply for your Argentina Reciprocity Fee directly through the Argentina Government by visiting virtual.provincianet.com.ar. Is the argentina reciprocity fee a visa from Scott Firenze on Vimeo