1 Temper your expectations. 2  If you have bad credit you might not be able to get a loan for your first-choice home, unfortunately. 3  If you do get a loan, you might be burdened with a high interest rate that will have you paying thousands more over the lifetime of the home. If you've got bad credit, work to fix it. Your best chance of buying a home doesn't come from navigating the obstacles created by your bad credit. Rather, it comes from turning your bad credit into good credit so that you don't have to deal with those obstacles in the first place.
When you've got bad credit and you're desperate to buy a house, it can be tempting to do something-anything-to eliminate your bad credit. A wide variety of quasi-legal predatory credit services and scams exist to take advantage of precisely this desperation. If you've got bad credit, work to fix it. Your best chance of buying a home doesn't come from navigating the obstacles created by your bad credit. Rather, it comes from turning your bad credit into good credit so that you don't have to deal with those obstacles in the first place.
Make your dreams of homeownership a reality despite having bad credit. While it is possible to get a mortgage with a bad credit rating, you might have to make some concessions in regard to interest rate and the loan amount. With tighter lending restrictions, buyers must get creative if they want to purchase a home. The best way to buy a home is to first improve your credit. A credit score that is even fifty points higher might save you thousands of dollars of interest over the course of the loan. However, if you want to buy a home with bad credit, there are several ways to do so. People with bad credit may get approved for mortgages far below their desired amount, but having any type of mortgage on your credit report will improve your score, so consider a more modest home and fix it up. Homes that need repairs may qualify for a 203k rehab loan, which is offered through HUD.
Buying a home with bad credit is possible, but it’ll be more expensive for someone with a bad credit history compared to someone with good credit. While you might be tempted into purchasing a home, you’ll need to be brutally honest with yourself about what you can and can’t afford. 
Confidence votes 25.4K. Yes, you can buy your first home with bad credit by accessing federal and local resources and saving for a larger down payment. The first step in buying a home is, of course, to find an assortment of homes that you're interested in, based on their location, condition, size, etc. Because you have bad credit. 
1 If you have bad credit you might not be able to get a loan for your first-choice home, unfortunately. 2  If you do get a loan, you might be burdened with a high interest rate that will have you paying thousands more over the lifetime of the home. If you've got bad credit, work to fix it. Your best chance of buying a home doesn't come from navigating the obstacles created by your bad credit. Rather, it comes from turning your bad credit into good credit so that you don't have to deal with those obstacles in the first place.
1 If you have no money to put down, visit how to buy a home with no money down. 2  If you want to lease, visit how to buy a house using a lease. 3  Temper your expectations. 4  If you have bad credit you might not be able to get a loan for your first-choice home, unfortunately. If you've got bad credit, work to fix it. Your best chance of buying a home doesn't come from navigating the obstacles created by your bad credit. Rather, it comes from turning your bad credit into good credit so that you don't have to deal with those obstacles in the first place.
Are you wondering how to buy a home with bad credit? Do you know how to acquire a bad credit home loan? Thanks to the fact that they are government insured, the FHA (Federal Housing Authority) and FHA backed Mortgages, allow people to get home loans with bad credit; so you buy the home you’ve been wanting.
Planning for a Secure Future. Solutions to Buying a Home with Bad Credit. Well, the short answer is yes, but there's a lot more to it. Whereas a few years ago you could get a subprime loan without much trouble, the mortgage mess has led to a lot more caution in the way home loans are approved these days. The FHA helps people qualify for loans by assuming the risk if the borrower -- that's you -- defaults. FHA insurance has helped secure more than 37 million home mortgages since 1934, and it can be a great way to get into your first home with a low down payment and a sparse or negative credit history.
Homeownership is still possible with poor credit. Bad credit does not automatically preclude you from obtaining a home loan. Also, bad credit does not automatically require you to pay a significant down payment up front in order to buy a home. 