Many plant cells have a large, single central vacuole that typically takes up most of the room in the cell (80 percent or more). Vacuoles in animal cells, however, tend to be much smaller, and are more commonly used to temporarily store materials or to transport substances. Sometimes these functions are carried out by different vacuoles in the same cell, one serving as a compartment for breaking down materials (similar to the lysosomes found in animal cells), and another storing nutrients, waste products, or other
Plant cells have one large vacuole, which plays an important role in the rigidity and turgor pressure of the cell. Animal cells do not need the same kind of function from th … eir vacuoles, so the size and number of vacuoles in different cells will differ (depending on the type of cell). the vacuole cell is in plants (edit) The vacuole is not a cell, but it is found within both the plant and animal cells. The vacuole is an organelle that can be found in both … plant cells and animal cells, and have different functions for each. Answered. In Zoology or Animal Biology.
Plant cell vacuoles perform a number of functions in a cell including: Plant vacuoles function similarly in plants as lysosomes in animal cells. Lysosomes are membranous sacs of enzymes that digest cellular macromolecules. Vacuoles and lysosomes also participate in programmed cell death. A plant cell vacuole is surrounded by a single membrane called the tonoplast. Vacuoles are formed when vesicles, released by the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi complex, merge together. Newly developing plant cells typically contain a number of smaller vacuoles.
A vacuole is a cell organelle found in a number of different cell types. Vacuoles are fluid-filled, enclosed structures that are separated from the cytoplasm by a single membrane. They are found mostly in plant cells and fungi. However, some protist, animal cells, and bacteria also contain vacuoles. Vacuoles are responsible for a wide variety of important functions in a cell including nutrient storage, detoxification, and waste exportation. A plant cell vacuole is surrounded by a single membrane called the tonoplast. Vacuoles are formed when vesicles, released by the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi complex, merge together. Newly developing plant cells typically contain a number of smaller vacuoles.
Vacuole is an important organelle present in the cells of plants, animals, protists, fungi and bacteria. Apart from water, vacuoles also contains different kinds of organic/inorganic molecules, solid materials and enzymes. Vacuoles are kind of large-sized vesicles. The functions that vacuoles perform in different types of cells are listed below. Maintaining the turgor pressure and pH in cells are the important vacuole functions. Taking into account these and other functions mentioned above, we can say that vacuole plays an important role in the functioning of plant cells.
Vacuoles are membrane-bound sacs within the cytoplasm of a cell that function in several different ways. Sometimes these functions are carried out by different vacuoles in the same cell, one serving as a compartment for breaking down materials (similar to the lysosomes found in animal cells), and another storing nutrients, waste products, or other substances.
The role played by vacuoles in animal cells is not as important as in plant cells. The functions that vacuoles perform in different types of cells are listed below. Maintaining the turgor pressure and pH in cells are the important vacuole functions. Taking into account these and other functions mentioned above, we can say that vacuole plays an important role in the functioning of plant cells.
Vacuoles and lysosomes have similar functions. Vacuoles in plant cells are in some respects the equivalent of lysosomes in animal cells. The environment inside a vacuole is slightly acid (pH about 5.0) whilst for the rest of the cytosol it is slightly alkaline (about pH 7.2). 
The function and significance of vacuoles varies greatly according to the type of cell in which they are present, having much greater prominence in the cells of plants, fungi and certain protists than those of animals and bacteria. In general, the functions of the vacuole include: 1  Isolating materials that might be harmful or a threat to the cell. 2  Containing waste products. 3  Containing water in plant cells. Vacuoles also play a major role in autophagy, maintaining a balance between biogenesis (production) and degradation (or turnover), of many substances and cell structures in certain organisms. They also aid in the lysis and recycling of misfolded proteins that have begun to build up within the cell.
A vacuole (/ˈvaekjuːoʊl/) ˈvækjuːoʊl is a-membrane bound organelle which is present in all plant and fungal cells and some, protist animal and bacterial. cells Vacuoles also play a major role in autophagy, maintaining a balance between biogenesis (production) and degradation (or turnover), of many substances and cell structures in certain organisms. They also aid in the lysis and recycling of misfolded proteins that have begun to build up within the cell.