One enduring appeal of Victoria is that it's a traditional girls' name with a powerful meaning. Victoria is the ancient Roman goddess of victory, the equivalent of the Greek Nike, and also a popular third century saint. One possible role model is proto-feminist Victoria Woodhull. Ex-Spice Girl Victoria Beckham and Victoria's Secret have given the name a more modern edge, and it also has been a Twilight name. Hello, Guest. Victoria, the epitome of gentility and refinement, reflects the image of the long-reigning British queen. In the 1990s, Victoria managed to breach the Top 20 and it still ranks at Number 19, a surprisingly high standing for a name that is more of a classic than a fashion favorite these days.
Below is a graphed analysis of the popularity of the girl name Victoria and affiliated names. Tori (#734 the previous year) , Vikki, Vita, Vicky, Viktoria, Vickie, Toya, Vickey, Vicki and Latoya are the popular alternative forms of Victoria (#19 the previous year) appearing in the Top 1000. Early Christians adopted the name, probably due to Saint Paul's praise of God, which giveth us the victory. Royal associations from 19th-century England's Queen Victoria and the four-syllable pronunciation give Victoria an air of dignity, formality and distinction.
Victoria /vic-to-ria/ [4 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced vic-TOR-ee-ah. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Victoria is  conqueror . Feminine of Victor. Early Christians adopted the name, probably due to Saint Paul's praise of God, which giveth us the victory. Royal associations from 19th-century England's Queen Victoria and the four-syllable pronunciation give Victoria an air of dignity, formality and distinction.
Origin, meaning and forms [edit]. Victoria is the Latin word for 'victory' or 'conquer' and is used as the feminine form corresponding to the name Victor. In Roman mythology, Victoria was the name of the goddess of victory, corresponding to the Greek goddess Nike. There are several different variations of the name Victoria: 1  Arabic: فيك 2 وريا (Viktoriya, Fiktūriya). 3  Bulgarian: виктория (Viktoriya, Viktorija).  viktórija
Meaning & History. Means victory in Latin, being borne by the Roman goddess of victory. It is also a feminine form of VICTORIUS. This name was borne by a 4th-century saint and martyr from North Africa. Though in use elsewhere in Europe, the name was very rare in the English-speaking world until the 19th century, when Queen Victoria began her long rule of Britain.
Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Victoria and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Victoria and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. Below you will find the popularity of the baby name Victoria displayed annually, from 1880 to the present day in our name popularity chart. Hover over or click on the dots that represent a year to see how many babies were given the name for that year, for both genders, if available.
Latin Meaning: The name Victoria is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Victoria is: Victory; triumphant. Famous Bearer: Queen Victoria. American Meaning: The name Victoria is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Victoria is: Victory; triumphant. Famous Bearer: Queen Victoria. 
Victoria is a very prominent first name for females (#116 out of 4276, Top 3%) and also a very prominent last name for all people (#6401 out of 150436, Top 4%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Victoria for girls. Early Christians adopted the name, probably due to Saint Paul's praise of God, which giveth us the victory. Royal associations from 19th-century England's Queen Victoria and the four-syllable pronunciation give Victoria an air of dignity, formality and distinction.