Chloroplasts capture light energy to conserve free energy in the form of ATP and reduce NADP to NADPH through a complex set of processes called photosynthesis. The word chloroplast is derived from the Greek words chloros which means green and plast which means form or entity. This process takes place in chloroplasts. At the same time plants need energy (infact all the living organisms need energy) for their growth and all metabolic processes. This energy is obtained by using glucose and oxygen. This process is known as respration which takes place in mitochiondria.
3. Best Response. You've already chosen the best response. Hi, Plant cells have mitochondria for the same reason that we do-to produce energy (more efficiently!) Specifically, mitochondria allow for a more extensive breakdown of glucose, which results in more ATP for the cell. Do you want a refresher of oxidative phosphorylation? Also want to point out-chloroplasts do not supersede mitochondria; chloroplasts create sugar from sunlight, but plant cells still need mitochondria to break down the sugar.
plants need chloroplasts and mitochondria because chloroplasts take place in photosynthesis and mitochondria is the main power source of a cell and its the organelles in which … sugar is broken down to release energy. 4 people found this useful. Well plant cells need chloroplasts because that's where photosynthesis takes place. Also they need mitochondria because that's where cellular respiration
Mitochondria are the energy factories of the cells. The energy currency for the work that animals must do is the energy-rich molecule adenosine triphosphate (ATP). The ATP is produced in the mitochondria using energy stored in food. Just as the chloroplasts in plants act as sugar factories for the supply of ordered molecules to the plant, the mitochondria in animals and plants act to produce the ordered ATP molecules as the energy supply for the processes of life.
Plant cells have certain distinguishing features, including chloroplasts, cell walls, and intracellular vacuoles. Photosynthesis takes place in chloroplasts; cell walls allow plants to have strong, upright structures; and vacuoles help regulate how cells handle water and storage of other molecules. 
Mitochondria are known as the powerhouses of the cell. They are organelles that act like a digestive system which takes in nutrients, breaks them down, and creates energy rich molecules for the cell. The biochemical processes of the cell are known as cellular respiration. Muscle cells need a lot of energy so they have loads of mitochondria. Neurons (cells that transmit nerve impulses) don’t need as many. If a cell feels it is not getting enough energy to survive, more mitochondria can be created.
Mitochondria are unusual organelles. They act as the power plants of the cell, are surrounded by two membranes, and have their own genome. They also divide independently of the cell in which they reside, meaning mitochondrial replication is not coupled to cell division. Therefore, power-hungry cells have more mitochondria than cells with lower energy needs. For example, repeatedly stimulating a muscle cell will spur the production of more mitochondria in that cell, to keep up with energy demand.
Best Answer: Plants perform two vital functions photosynthesis which is fixation of solar energy to chemical energy in the form of glucose. This process takes place in chloroplasts. At the same time plants need energy (infact all the living organisms need energy) for their growth and all metabolic processes. This energy is obtained by using glucose and oxygen. This process is known as respration which takes place in mitochiondria.
The function of the mitochondria in a plant cell is to support the  function of the cell and the structure. The mitochondria usually  has a membrane which has folds that are … stretched to provide a  wider surface area for cellular activities. 1 person found this useful. 
Animals and plants are made up of many complex cells called eukaryotic cells. Inside these cells are structures that perform special functions for the cell called organelles. The organelle that is responsible for producing energy for the cell is the mitochondria. 