A foreign company planning to set up business operations in India has the following options: investment under automatic route; and. investment through prior approval of Government. Investment by way of Share Acquisition. A foreign investing company is entitled to acquire the shares of an Indian company without obtaining any prior permission of the FIPB subject to prescribed parameters/ guidelines.
Indian companies having foreign investment approval through FIPB route do not require any further clearance from RBI for receiving inward remittance and issue of shares to the foreign investors. Investment by way of Share Acquisition. A foreign investing company is entitled to acquire the shares of an Indian company without obtaining any prior permission of the FIPB subject to prescribed parameters/ guidelines.
1 FDI limit of 26% in defence sector raised to 49% under Government approval route. 2  Foreign Portfolio Investment up to 24% permitted under automatic route. 3  FDI beyond 49% is also allowed on a case to case basis with the approval of Cabinet Committee on Security. 1 FDI beyond 49% is also allowed on a case to case basis with the approval of Cabinet Committee on Security. 2  Construction, operation and maintenance of specified activities of Railway sector opened to 100% foreign direct investment
Procedure under Government approval. FDI in activities not covered under the automatic route, requires prior Government approval and are considered by the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB). Approvals of composite proposals involving foreign investment/foreign technical collaboration are also granted on the recommendations of the FIPB. Investment by way of Share Acquisition. A foreign investing company is entitled to acquire the shares of an Indian company without obtaining any prior permission of the FIPB subject to prescribed parameters/ guidelines.
FDI in activities not covered under the automatic route require prior government approval. Approval of all such proposals including composite proposals involving foreign investment/foreign technical collaboration is granted on the recommendations of Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB). Send Enquiry. The Foreign Direct Investment in India is not automatic route of investment in the country and require prior approval of government. The approval is required on the proposals which involves investment or some technical collaboration with Indian ventures.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) is a national agency of Government of India, with the remit to consider and recommend foreign direct investment (FDI) which does not come under the automatic route. It provides a single window clearance for proposals on FDI in India. 
Come January and the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) will go paperless for submission of applications, granting of approvals and keeping various records. This will bring down the average time for an FIPB clearance from about five weeks to three weeks, said a finance ministry official who asked not to be named. Applicants will also be able to check the status of their application online.
The Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) offers a single window clearance for applications on Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) in India that are under the approval route. 
About Us. The Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB), housed in the Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, is an inter-ministerial body, responsible for processing of FDI proposals and making recommendations for Government approval. Such cases required prior approval of the FIPB / Government as per the existing procedure. The FIPB was transferred to the Department of Economic Affairs; Ministry of Finance in terms of the Presidential Order dated 30.01.2003.
1 Under this route applications are considered by the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB). 2  Approval from Cabinet Committee on Security is required for more than 49% FDI in defence. 3  The proposals involving investments of more than INR 12 billion are considered by Cabinet committee on economic affairs. 1 FDI beyond 49% is also allowed on a case to case basis with the approval of Cabinet Committee on Security. 2  Construction, operation and maintenance of specified activities of Railway sector opened to 100% foreign direct investment under automatic route.