At 7,500 feet, Chile's Atacama desert is the driest place on Earth, its dramatic landscape surreally beautiful. There are fiery red canyons, grassy gorges, turquoise thermal lakes, cerulean lagoons, and geysers. 
Article by ayushi khemka, With massive floods creating furore all over, the last thing that comes to our minds is the complete opposite of the wet and drenched regions, i.e. the driest place on Earth. There are numerous places on our planet that receive rainfall less than even 0.76 mm annually. 
The Atacama Desert is commonly known as the driest non-polar place in the world, especially the surroundings of the abandoned Yungay town (in Antofagasta Region, Chile). According to estimates the Atacama Desert proper occupies 105,000 square kilometres (41,000 sq mi), or 128,000 square kilometres (49,000 sq mi) if the barren lower slopes of the Andes are included. Most of the desert is composed of stony terrain, salt lakes (salares), sand, and felsic lava that flows towards the Andes.
The Atacama desert is one of the driest places on Earth. Scientists are searching for traces of microorganisms in this extreme environment. Credit: Carnegie Mellon University. In Northern Chile, a pick-up truck bumps along dusty old mining roads toward the Atacama Desert. 
Driest Places on Earth. 1. Surprise! The driest place in the world is in Antarctica, not Africa or South America. Known as Ridge A, it is located within the Australian Antarctic Territory, on the Antarctic Plateau. 5. Hawaii’s Mount Waialeale, meaning the “rippling water,” was once known as the wettest place on Earth. Even though that title has dropped, it is still the wettest place in America. Mount Waialeale, located in Kauai, has an annual average rainfall of 384.35 inches (9,763 mm).
The Atacama Desert, located in Chile, is the driest sandy desert in the world. It is the highest-altitude desert on Earth with an average elevation of 4 kilometers (13,000 feet) above sea level. The top three driest places on the planet differ from other deserts for reasons that go beyond their lack of rainfall. The three are notable for being the driest permanently inhabited place, the highest-altitude desert and the driest cold desert on Earth.
In some spots it has not been raining for at least 500 years! The Atacama Desert is located in northern Chile and reaches a small part of southern Peru (South America), climbing up to 3,200 m (10,670 ft) altitude on an area of 181,300 square km (72,500 square mi). 
Researchers have pinpointed the driest location on Earth in the Atacama Desert, a region in Chile already recognised as the most arid in the world. They have also found evidence of life at the site, a discovery that could have far-reaching implications for the search for life on Mars. 
The Atacama Desert (Spanish: Desierto de Atacama) is a plateau in South America, covering a 1,000-kilometre (600 mi) strip of land on the Pacific coast, west of the Andes mountains. It is the driest non-polar desert in the world. According to estimates the Atacama Desert proper occupies 105,000 square kilometres (41,000 sq mi), or 128,000 square kilometres (49,000 sq mi) if the barren lower slopes of the Andes are included. Most of the desert is composed of stony terrain, salt lakes (salares), sand, and felsic lava that flows towards the Andes.
Even the Driest Place on Earth has Water. These incredibly dry mountains see an average of less than .004 inches/.01cm of rain per year. Many times this area will go without rainfall at all for years. Some places in the Atacama Desert have not had rainfall for over 400 years. The Atacama desert is found along the coast of Chile, South America-right next to the Pacific Ocean-the biggest body of water in the world. Even though Atacama gets almost no rainfall, there is water in this arid place and you'll find it in the following places: Salt Lakes. During years of heavy rainfall in the distant past, enough water accumulated in basins found throughout the Andes to create lakes.