[ 2 syll. pao-la, pa-ola ] The baby girl name Paola is pronounced in Italian as P AW-Laa or in Spanish as Paa-OW-Laa †. Paola's language of origin is Latin and it is predominantly used in Italian. Paola is a derivative of the English, French, German, Polish, and Spanish Paula. Paola is a rather popular baby girl name. The name grew in popularity from the 1980s up to the 1990s; prior to that, it was of only very light use. Its usage peaked modestly in 1999 with 0.053% of baby girls being named Paola
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Paola in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Paola in Nautical Flags page. Traditionally, the first born son was named after the father's father, the first daughter after the father's mother, the second son after the mother's father, and the second daughter after the mother's mother. Some Italians still follow this custom today.
The name Paola is the name of a very peaceful (but violate at times) person. people by the name of paola can't get mad very easily and are very calm. Split and merge into it. Answer by Paola2258. Confidence votes 31. The name Paola is the name of a very peaceful (but violate at times) person. people by the name of paola can't get mad very easily and are very calm. People by Paola can make friends very easily.
Paula /pau-la/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced PAW-lah. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Paula is small. Feminine of Paul. A Roman name and saint's name. Paula was used among early Christians, probably to honor Saint Paul. It was not used widely in English-speaking countries until the 20th century. 
In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 679 in baby name popularity for girls with 413 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Paola Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Paola has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Paola to other names. Traditionally, the first born son was named after the father's father, the first daughter after the father's mother, the second son after the mother's father, and the second daughter after the mother's mother. Some Italians still follow this custom today.
Paola /pao-la/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Latin origin, and the name Paola means small. Paola is an alternate spelling of Paula (Latin): feminine of Paul. Paolo is a popular surname. Kreatif forms: Padla, Paoca, Paopa. Paola is a very prominent first name for females (#1949 out of 4276, Top 46%) and also a very prominent surname for all people (#40203 out of 150436, Top 27%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Paola for girls.
Origin of the name Paola: Feminine form of Paolo, the Italian cognate of Paul, which is from the Latin Paulus, a name originating as a Roman surname derived from paulus (small). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Personal experiences with the name Paola: | Edit. The name can come from many different places, but from my knowledge it mostly comes frome Central America and Europe. pronounced: PaH-O-La. Nickname: paolita (PaH-O-li-ta. My wife is from Colombia and she is called Paola.
Meaning of Paola. Italian name. In Italian, the name Paola means-small.The name Paola originated as an Italian name. The name Paola is most often used as a girl name or female name. Italian Name Meaning-small. Origin-Italy. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special!
The name Paola is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Paola is: Small. SoulUrge Number: 8. Expression Number: 9. People with this name have a deep inner desire to lead, organize, supervise, and to achieve status, power and wealth. 