1 Flatulence is the state of having excessive stomach and/or intestinal gas (waste gas produced during digestion) that is usually released from the anus with sound and/or odor. 2  Causes of excess gas in the digestive tract are. 3  swallowed air, 4  breakdown of undigested foods, 5  lactase intolerance, and. 1 Flatulence is usually not a medical emergency; however medical care should be sought quickly if a person develops other symptoms such as. 2  severe cramps, 3  diarrhea, 4  constipation, 5  bloody stools, 6  fever, 7  nausea and vomiting and/or. 8  right-sided abdominal pain along with flatulence.
Flatulence. Flatulence is defined in the medical literature as flatus expelled through the anus or the quality or state of being flatulent, which is defined in turn as marked by or affected with gases generated in the intestine or stomach; likely to cause digestive flatulence.. Flatus is brought to the rectum by specialized contractions of the muscles in the intestines and colon. The noises commonly associated with flatulence are caused by the vibration of the anal sphincter, and occasionally by the closed buttocks.
Flatus is brought to the rectum by specialised contractions of the muscles in the intestines and colon. The noises commonly associated with flatulence ( Blowing a raspberry ) are caused by the vibration of anal sphincters, and occasionally by the closed buttocks. It is normal for humans to pass flatus through the rectum, although the volume and frequency may vary greatly between individuals. It is also normal for intestinal gas passed through the rectum to have a characteristic feculent smell, although this too may vary in concentration.
Flatulence is a medical term for releasing gas from the digestive system through the anus. It is also commonly known as farting, passing wind, or having gas. It occurs when gas collects inside the digestive system. Gas collects in two main ways. First, when you swallow air during eating or drinking, oxygen and nitrogen collect in the digestive tract. Second, as you digest food, digestive gases such as hydrogen, methane, and carbon dioxide collect. Either case can cause flatulence.
For the term fart itself, see Fart. Flatulence is defined in the medical literature as flatus expelled through the anus or the quality or state of being flatulent, which is defined in turn as marked by or affected with gases generated in the intestine or stomach; likely to cause digestive flatulence. It is normal for humans to pass flatus through the rectum, although the volume and frequency may vary greatly between individuals. It is also normal for intestinal gas passed through the rectum to have a characteristic feculent smell, although this too may vary in concentration.
Both the noise and smell associated with flatus leaving the anus can be sources of embarrassment or comedy in many cultures. There are five general symptoms related to intestinal gas: pain, bloating and abdominal distension, excessive flatus volume, excessive flatus smell and gas incontinence. It is normal for humans to pass flatus through the rectum, although the volume and frequency may vary greatly between individuals. It is also normal for intestinal gas passed through the rectum to have a characteristic feculent smell, although this too may vary in concentration.
Flatus: Gas in the intestinal tract or gas passed through the anus. Intestinal gas contains numerous gases including oxygen, nitrogen, hydrogen, carbon dioxide, hydrogen sulfide, ammonia, and methane. The foul smell usually is caused by small traces of gases such as hydrogen sulfide, ammonia, and methane.
Symptoms of flatulence are increased passage of gas, and abdominal bloating or pain, and belching. Embarrassment can be caused by the increased passage of flatus or the often-offensive odor it causes. 1  Gas: Everyone passes gas (flatulates) normally each day. 2  Belching: An occasional belch during or after meals is normal and releases gas when the stomach is full of food. 3  Abdominal bloating: Many people believe that too much gas causes abdominal ...
Flatus is also the medical word for gas generated in the stomach or bowels. These standard definitions do not reflect the fact that a proportion of intestinal gas may be composed of swallowed environmental air, and hence flatus is not totally generated in the stomach or bowels. It is normal for humans to pass flatus through the rectum, although the volume and frequency may vary greatly between individuals. It is also normal for intestinal gas passed through the rectum to have a characteristic feculent smell, although this too may vary in concentration.