The drainage basin includes both the streams and rivers that convey the water as well as the land surfaces from which water drains into those channels, and is separated from adjacent basins by a drainage divide. In North America, the term watershed is commonly used to mean a drainage basin, though in other English-speaking countries, it is used only in its original sense, to mean a drainage divide, the former meaning an area, the latter the high elevation perimeter of that area.
A drainage basin or catchment basin is an extent or an area of land where surface water from rain, melting snow, or ice converges to a single point at a lower elevation, usually the exit of the basin, where the waters join another waterbody, such as a river, lake, reservoir, estuary, wetland, sea, or ocean. In North America, the term watershed is commonly used to mean a drainage basin, though in other English-speaking countries, it is used only in its original sense, to mean a drainage divide, the former meaning an area, the latter the high elevation perimeter of that area.
1 Drainage basin-the area of land drained by a river. 2  Catchment area-the area within the drainage basin. 3  Watershed-the edge of highland surrounding a drainage basin. 4  It marks the boundary between two drainage basins. 5  Source-The beginning or start of a river. 6  Confluence-the point at which two rivers or streams join. 1 Watershed-the edge of highland surrounding a drainage basin. 2  It marks the boundary between two drainage basins. 3  Source-The beginning or start of a river. 4
Often, small drainage basins or watersheds combine with one another, creating larger and larger networks of drainage basins. All of these combined drainage basins are together referred to simply as a drainage basin, or as one watershed. The area between two drainage basins is known as a drainage divide. 
GCSE Revision-Rivers-Drainage Basins & Processes. Rivers begin in upland areas and flow downhill, becoming deeper and wider until they reach the sea. Opposite is a typical diagram of a drainage basin and it shows its main feature. A drainage basin is part of the water cycle where water is transferred in a continuous cycle between the sea, atmosphere and the land. As the river flows downstream its characteristics change through the three main sections of. Drainage Basin-The area drained by a river and its tributaries. River Processes. Erosion is the wearing away of the riverbed and banks .It can involve the wearing away of rocks and particles being carried by a river.
In closed (endorheic) drainage basins the water converges to a single point inside the basin, known as a sink, which may be a permanent lake, dry lake, or a point where surface water is lost underground. In North America, the term watershed is commonly used to mean a drainage basin, though in other English-speaking countries, it is used only in its original sense, to mean a drainage divide, the former meaning an area, the latter the high elevation perimeter of that area.
The Drainage Basin. The land based part of the hydrological cycle is called the Drainage Basin System. A drainage basin is the name given to the area of land which is drained by a river. When water reaches the surface there are a number of routes which it may take in its journey to reach the river. These are shown in the diagram opposite
Each drainage basin is separated topographically from adjacent basins by a perimeter, the drainage divide making up a succession of higher geographical features (such as a ridge, hill or mountains) forming a barrier. In North America, the term watershed is commonly used to mean a drainage basin, though in other English-speaking countries, it is used only in its original sense, to mean a drainage divide, the former meaning an area, the latter the high elevation perimeter of that area.
This type of water is referred to as runoff, because it is water that falls on the ground and flows across the surface until it hits a stream. Each waterway has a drainage basin, or watershed, which is an area of land where all precipitation that falls will drain or flow downhill into a specific stream. Based on where rain falls, and in what drainage basin, determines what waterway it will end up traveling to. Within a drainage basin, sometimes water that is moving downhill is stopped due to a depression in the land. This process creates ponds, which are small bodies of standing water, and lakes, which are much larger bodies of standing water.