The law does not require employers to pay your salary during jury duty, but some employers have an arrangement to pay your salary. You should speak with your employer to determine the arrangements at your place of employment.
It is important to know what leaves of absence you are entitled to under the Employment Standards Act R.S.B.C. 1996, c. 113 (the ESA) as well as the statutory obligations owed to you by your employer if you are called for jury duty.
If your employer is licensed to do business in Massachusetts and you work in a Massachusetts branch of the company, your employer must comply with Massachusetts law and pay you your regular wages for the first three days of your service.
Answer: The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA), a federal law, does not require employers to pay employees for jury duty service. Consequently, unless provided by state law or company policy, an employer does not have to pay an employee for serving on a jury. However, according to the Employee Benefits Survey conducted by the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), 87 percent of employers in the U.S. offered paid leave for jury duty.
In Ontario, jurors are usually paid $40 starting only on the 11th day of trial, which increases to $100 a day if the trail goes longer than 50 days. For the Stafford trial, jurors are being paid $40 a day from the outset and will have their compensation increased to $100 a day as of the 25th day of trial.
If employers do pay, they have the right to require employees to remit to them the fees received for jury service. Prospective jurors are paid the amount mandated by the State Legislature, $15.00 per day and $0.34 per mile, one way for the second day of service and every day thereafter.
Your employer doesn’t have to pay you during your service but you can claim for loss of earnings from the court. Your employer must fill out a Certificate of Loss of Earnings, which you get with the letter confirming your jury service.
Many employers do, however, have jury-leave policies that provide compensation to employees for the time they are needed at court for jury service. An Investment in America Many prospective jurors cite a loss of pay as a legitimate reason for not serving on a jury.
While the majority of states do not mandate paying employees for jury duty, a few states do. In Connecticut, for instance, full-time workers are entitled to regular pay for the first 5 days of jury duty and after the fifth day, the employee can receive up to $50 per day from the state.