Sassafras. Sassafras albidum. Laurel family (Lauraceae). Description: This tree is typically 30-60' tall with trunks 1-2' across, although specimens up to 100' with even wider trunks occasionally occur. The crown of each tree is roughly ovoid in shape with fairly short spreading branche
Native Range. Sassafras is native from southwestern Maine west to New York, extreme southern Ontario, and central Michigan; southwest in Illinois, extreme southeastern Iowa, Missouri, southeastern Kansas, eastern Oklahoma, and eastern Texas; and east to central Florida (8). Average annual rainfall varies from 760 to 1400 mm (30 to 55 in) within the humid range of sassafras. Of this, 640 to 760 mm (25 to 30 in) occur from April to August, the effective growing season.
Sassafras bark was one of the first exports of the New World. Oil of sassafras was once used as a food additive and flavoring, but interstate commerce in the oil, which contains up to 80% of safrole, a carcinogenic (Sethi et al. 1976), is now banned. 
Sassafras albidum-yellowwood tree with brittle wood and aromatic leaves and bark; source of sassafras oil; widely distributed in eastern North America. sassafras, sassafras tree. sassafras-dried root bark of the sassafras tree. 
Sassafras roots exude chemicals that may kill other plants within its root zone (allelopathic). Starting as early as 1584 English explorers were sent to the New World to locate and procure sassafras. The name sassafras was derived from the Spanish word salsafras, referring to the tree's alleged medicinal value. The specific epithet, albidum, refers to the light or whitish color of the undersides of leaves.
Sassafras albidum. Sassafras is very common in Virginia, and it can be a shrub or a tree. As a tree, it can grow up to 60 feet. Sassafras has three differently shaped leaves: three-lobed (see above), mitten-shaped, and simple (no lobes). Leaves are three to five inches long. In Fall, they turn red, yellow and orange. They often grow alongside Black Cherry, American Beech, American Hornbeam, Eastern Red Cedar, as well as others. Sassafras is allelopathic to some plants, such as American Elm. This means it releases a chemical which keeps these plants from growing well. This allows Sassafras to grow better, without so much competition. Sassafras flowers are greenish-yellow, and grow in clusters
GENUS: Sassafras albidum is the only species of the genus sassafras native to North America. It belongs to the Lauraceae family, which is mainly tropical and subtropical. Other members of this family are Spicebush (Lindera benzoin), which is found in Ontario, Cinnamon Tree (Cinnamomum zeylanicum), Camphor Tree (C. camphora), Sweet Bay (Laurus nobilis), and Avocado (Persea americana).
Sassafras (Sassafras albidum), sometimes called white sassafras, is a medium-sized, moderately fast growing, aromatic tree with three distinctive leaf shapes: entire, mittenshaped, and threelobed. Average annual rainfall varies from 760 to 1400 mm (30 to 55 in) within the humid range of sassafras. Of this, 640 to 760 mm (25 to 30 in) occur from April to August, the effective growing season.
Dark-blue fruits on scarlet stalks appear on female plants in late summer. Bright-green, mitten-shaped, oval, or three-lobed leaves have outstanding fall color. The roots and root bark supply oil of sassafras (used to perfume soap) and sassafras tea, and have been used to flavor root beer.