Like basidiomycota, most ascomycota sprout from spores into hapliod mycelia. These mycelia can produce two types of reproductive structures. First, they can produce conidiophores for asexual reproduction. Conidiaphores may simply branch off from the mycelia or they may be formed in fruiting bodies. Sexual reproduction in the Ascomycota differs from that in the Basidiomycota and Zygomycota because Ascomycota have male and female gametangia in their haploid stage. These structures, discussed in Heading, form on the mycelia.
Phylum II Ascomycota. Sexual spores; most produce ascospores in asci. Asexual spores; many types on conidia formed at the tips of conidiospores. Hyphae with porous septa Examples: This is by far the largest Phylum
Basidiomycota /bəˌsɪdi.ɵmaɪˈkoʊtə/ is one of two large phyla that, together with the Ascomycota, constitute the subkingdom Dikarya (often referred to as the higher fungi) within the kingdom Fungi. Basidiomycota that reproduce asexually (discussed below) can be recognized as members of this phylum by gross similarity to others, by the formation of a distinctive anatomical feature (the clamp connection-see below), cell wall components, and definitively by phylogenetic molecular analysis of DNA sequence data.
Life Cycle. Ascomycota are either single-celled (yeasts) or filamentous (hyphal) or both (dimorphic). Yeasts grow by budding or fission and hyphae grow apically and branch laterally. Most yeasts and filamentous Ascomycota are haploid, but some species, Saccharomyces cerevisiae for example, can also be diploid. 
Classification of Fungi. The kingdom Fungi is divided into four phyla: Zygomycota, Ascomycota, Basidiomycota, and Deuteromycota (imperfect fungi).The way these phyla are differentiated is based on the way in which fungi reproduce. Zygomycota: zygospore fungi. The phylum zygomycota contains about 765 different species
Ascomycota is a division or phylum of the kingdom Fungi that, together with the Basidiomycota, form the subkingdom Dikarya. Its members are commonly known as the sac fungi or ascomycetes. Sexual reproduction in the Ascomycota leads to the formation of the ascus, the structure that defines this fungal group and distinguishes it from other fungal phyla. The ascus is a tube-shaped vessel, a meiosporangium, which contains the sexual spores produced by meiosis and which are called ascospores.
In common with other fungal phyla, the Ascomycota are heterotrophic organisms that require organic compounds as energy sources. These are obtained by feeding on a variety of organic substrates including dead matter, foodstuffs, or as symbionts in or on other living organisms. Sexual reproduction in the Ascomycota leads to the formation of the ascus, the structure that defines this fungal group and distinguishes it from other fungal phyla. The ascus is a tube-shaped vessel, a meiosporangium, which contains the sexual spores produced by meiosis and which are called ascospores.
The Three Phyla of Fungi There are three phyla but actually four groups of fungi:phylum Zygomycota, the zygomycetes; phylum Ascomy-cota, the ascomycetes; phylum Basidiomycota, the basidiomycetes, and the imperfect fungi (figure 36.7 andtable 36.1). 
More specifically the Basidiomycota include these groups: mushrooms, puffballs, stinkhorns, bracket fungi, other polypores, jelly fungi, boletes, chanterelles, earth stars, smuts, bunts, rusts, mirror yeasts, and the human pathogenic yeast Cryptococcus. Basidiomycota that reproduce asexually (discussed below) can be recognized as members of this phylum by gross similarity to others, by the formation of a distinctive anatomical feature (the clamp connection-see below), cell wall components, and definitively by phylogenetic molecular analysis of DNA sequence data.