How long does a whole soccer game last? 90 minutes + stoppage time (typically 6 to 10 minutes for both halves) with a 10 minute halftime. For elimination games, if the score is tied at the end of regulation time, t … here is a 10 minute break and another 30 minutes are played, with another 1 to 3 minutes for stoppages. How long does a major league soccer game last?   Major League Soccer matches consist of two 45-minute halves, with a halftime break of about 15 minutes.
Report Abuse. There are 45 minute halves with a fifteen minute half-time in between. The referee also has to add injury time if there are any injuries or disruptions during the game. So the total time of the game is 90 minutes or about two hours, including halftime and injury time. Source(s): i have played soccer for 10 yrs. 
Law 7 of the Laws of the Game governed by FIFA a soccer match is comprised of two 45 minute halves unless the two teams and the referee agree mutually on a different length. A half time period of no longer than 15 minutes is given to both teams. How long does a major league soccer game last?   Major League Soccer matches consist of two 45-minute halves, with a halftime break of about 15 minutes.
How long does an average high school football game last? An average high school football game lasts about an hour & 1/2 - 2 hours. They last longer if they go into overtime.A regular game, provided there is no overtime involved, is … 12 minutes per quarter, 4 quarters, with a 15 minute halftime. But the final time depends greatly on how many times they stop the clock.  . 
Save. The regulation time of a pro football games is 60 minutes. But many things can stop the game clock: dead balls, television commercials and timeouts, for example. And then there's the halftime break. All things considered, a game will actually usally last between three and three and a half hours
TongRo Images/TongRo Images/Getty Images. A soccer game consists of two halves lasting 45 minutes, meaning a soccer game is 90 minutes long -- except it isn't. Unlike other timed sports, the clock doesn't stop when an injury, substitution or other event interrupts game play. The referee makes note of these stoppages and tacks on time at the end of each half. The length of a soccer game also depends on the age of the players. U.S. Youth Soccer provides guidelines with shorter periods for players under age 16. For example, games for children younger than 6 are divided into six-minute quarters.
· just now. Report Abuse. 90 minutes plus compensation time which can be 1,2 or more minutes. Iif the game is an elimination where there CANT be a tie and at the end of the 90 minutes the teams are tied then there is extra time with two half of 15 minutes each which add up to 120 minutes. It is guaranteed to last at least 90:00, plus however much time the referee decides to end on at the end of each half due to injuries If the game is tied at the end of the 2nd half and it is a game that can't end in a tie (some cup games), then they go to extra minutes.
Best Answer: 90 minutes, plus stoppage time. It is guaranteed to last at least 90:00, plus however much time the referee decides to end on at the end of each half due to injuries If the game is tied at the end of the 2nd half and it is a game that can't end in a tie (some cup games), then they go to extra minutes.