Lima beans were first thought to have originated in Brazil, but are now believed to have come from Guatemala in Central America. The country's tropical climate, influenced by the Pacific and Caribbean oceans, creates perfect growing conditions for lima beans and thousands of other plant species.
White settlers transported lima beans back to Europe, but they did not catch on as well in northern countries where climates were not warm enough for the plants to thrive. They were also carried to Africa, India and other places in the world for cultivation.
Large-seed Lima beans originated high in the Andes mountains of South America thousands of years ago, while smaller-bean varieties grew at lower elevations in Central America. Conquering Spanish troops and explorers exported the hardy bean to Europe and North American.
The lima bean, also known as the chad bean or butter bean, is a large disk-shaped bean used in succotash. Lima beans originated in Peru and have been grown there since 6000 B.C. The name comes from the capital city of Peru, Lima. Lima beans are almost always called butter beans in the southern part of the United States, even in markets and restaurants.
Lima beans (Phaseolus limensis) originated in Peru (or possibly Guatemala). They have been cultivated in Peru since 6000 B.C., and their common name comes from Lima, Peru's capital city. Another name for the lima bean is 'chad bean'.
Lima beans, with their large starchy seeds, have been traced back to about 2000 B.C. when the Moche people cultivated Lima beans throughout their empire along what is now coastal Peru. They often depicted images of beans in their iconic pottery.
Lima beans come in three main varieties: 1  Large lima beans are green or speckled. 2  Small lima beans are also called sieva beans, Carolina bean, civet, seewee, and sivvy. 3  Dwarf lima beans, also known as butter peas, are white and speckled and the least starchy of the limas.
The History of Lima Bean Plants. Large-seed Lima beans originated high in the Andes mountains of South America thousands of years ago, while smaller-bean varieties grew at lower elevations in Central America. Conquering Spanish troops and explorers exported the hardy bean to Europe and North American.