Definition of CABOCHON. : a gem or bead cut in convex form and highly polished but not faceted; also: this style of cutting. — cabochon adverb. ADVERTISEMENT. Middle French, diminutive of Middle French dialect (Picard) caboche head.
Cabochon is a type of cut or shape of a where in gemstone will have a convex top with flat bottom. Typically cabochon cut is applied to opaque gemstones and has one flat surface. It could be round or oval shaped. 
Cabochons. Available in a variety of colors, these gorgeous cabochons are ideal for seed bead and set bezels. Their slightly domed shape creates a timeless appeal that is full of elegance and their versatile design is ideal for use in embellishing bead boxes and other household objects with our E-6000 adhesive. 
A cabochon (/ˈkaebəˌʃɒn/), ˈkæbəˌʃɒn from The Middle french word (caboche meaning), head is a gemstone which has been shaped and polished as opposed to. Faceted the resulting form is usually a (convex) rounded obverse with a flat. reverse In the case of asteriated stones such as star sapphires and chatoyant stones such as cat's eye chrysoberyl, a domed cabochon cut is used to show the star or eye, which would not be visible in a faceted cut.
In the gemstone world, a cabochon is a stone that is cut with a highly polished rounded or convex top with no faceting and a flat or slightly domed base. A cabochon may be cut in any shape, though oval is by far the most common. The term comes from the French caboche, meaning knob or small dome. 
The phrase en cabochon (from French: knob) is the term applied to a gemstone with a smooth, domed top. Cabochon s have no facets, are usually highly polished and generally have a round or oval outline but can be any shape, including triangular, navette and rectangular. Cabochon cut sapphire s are normal ly heat treated, as are most sapphire s these days. A fine untreated cab is usually seen in antique estate jewelry or from specialists such as ourselves.
In the gemstone world, a cabochon is a stone that is cut with a highly polished rounded or convex top with no faceting, with a flat or slightly domed base. A cabochon may be cut in any shape, though oval is by far the most common. The term comes from the French caboche, meaning knob or small dome. Certain stones are almost always cut en cabochon, including opal, turquoise, onyx, moonstone, and star gemstones.
Simply a piece of gemstone, glass or other material shaped and polished. Shop a large selection of glass and gemstone cabochons and cabochon settings to create your own cabochon jewelry. Create vintage-style cameo jewelry from the selection of synthetic and natural material cameos also for sale here. 