1 Dogs should be fed at the same time every day. 2  Feeding at the same time will keep your dog on a bathroom schedule. 3  Ask your vet how many times a day you should feed your dog. 4  Feed your dog the same type and brand of food every day. If you are feeding a puppy food ask your veterinarian when you should switch to adult food. Make sure the adult food you switch to is still a balanced high quality diet with the first ingredient being a specified meat that is not a by-product. 8 to 9 months. Feeding should be twice a
Puppies should eat four times a day. And speaking of feeding puppies, Wendy Winquist, a certified trainer and dog behavior specialists in Austell, Ga., suggests you start out feeding them by hand. Most experts recommend against it for several reasons. Especially when you start out with a puppy, Carreker says, we recommend that you feed it on a meal schedule.. That means feeding the dog at the same times every day and leaving the food down for only about 20 minutes. Then you should pick up the bowl whether your dog has eaten or not
The following is an excerpt from Petfinder.com’s – The Adopted Dog Bible. Most experts recommend feeding your dog twice a day — once in the morning and once in the evening — though puppies under five months of age should be fed three to four times a day, or as directed by your veterinarian. Thinkstock. Pretty soon your dog will learn that he needs to eat when the food is offered. Having regularly-scheduled feeding times not only establishes a routine, it also allows you to monitor your dog’s health. If he picks at his food throughout the day, you may not notice right away if he’s not eating well.
Smaller breeds such as Yorkies need to be fed more frequently, three times a day, to prevent low blood sugar. However, two meals a day spaced eight to 12 hours apart is standard for most medium to large adult dogs. One or two low-calorie treats during the day should suffice if your dog seems hungry in between meals. 
1 Ask your vet how many times a day you should feed your dog. 2  Feed your dog the same type and brand of food every day. 3  Unlike humans, a dog's digestive system cannot handle changes in food. 4  It can cause upset stomach and diarrhea. If you are feeding a puppy food ask your veterinarian when you should switch to adult food. Make sure the adult food you switch to is still a balanced high quality diet with the first ingredient being a specified meat that is not a by-product. 8 to 9 months. Feeding should be twice a day
Puppies should be fed three to four times a day therefore if you are currently feeding ¾ a cup of puppy food twice a day you should consider spacing it out by feeding ½ cup three times a day. At around six months you may start feeding twice a day for convenience but because your dog is a mixed large breed dog I would recommend sticking with a 3-4 times a day feeding schedule if possible to minimize the risk of gastric dilatation volvulus. Move on from puppy food.
Puppies less than 3 months of age should be fed four times per day. For example, if your puppy's size and age dictates that he should be fed one cup of food per day, offer 1/4 cup food four times a day. If the pup does not eat at one of the feedings, don't add more food later. Each feeding, regardless of if it is eaten or not, should contain 1/4 cup of food. When the pup is between 3 to 6 months old feed three meals per day. Remember to check the manufacturer's recommendations on how much to feed. As your puppy ages, his size increases, and he will need more food each day. This amount of food is divided into 3 feedings.
Food: Older dogs should be fed twice a day but it should be a smaller amount since their activity is limited. Water: Older dogs may need more water than their younger counterparts. Sleep: A senior dog will sleep more than an active adult dog, on average 16 to 18 hours a day. Sample Schedule of an Average Day with an Adult Dog. Food: Most adult dogs should eat twice a day. This keeps their metabolism stable and aids in digestion. You’ll find they quickly catch on to when feeding time is.