1 Compare this with the luggage shipping service's size limits. 2  Read through your luggage shipping service's insurance policy. 3  If something happens to your baggage, you need to know your options. 4  For example, some services will pay for clothing rentals, or even reimburse you if you buy new clothes. Some airlines issue hefty charges for overweight luggage, while luggage shipping services usually have several different size and weight classes. See the sortable charts below for more information on delivery times and pricing.
Some of the services you can expect with a luggage shipping service that FedEx, UPS, and DHL can't offer are: 1  Guaranteed on-time delivery-You need your luggage when you arrive at your destination, regardless of the circumstances. Some airlines issue hefty charges for overweight luggage, while luggage shipping services usually have several different size and weight classes. See the sortable charts below for more information on delivery times and pricing.
Cost. Many airlines now charge for every checked bag. Shipping your luggage in advance is not really a money-saving alternative, but it can be worth the price when it comes to convenience. On top of the basic fees, Delta charges—each way—an extra $90 for bags 51 to 70 pounds, and $175 for bags 71 to 100 pounds, as well as $175 if the bag’s dimensions total 63 to 80 inches. Luggage Forward charges $195 to $483 to ship an oversized bag—up to 75 pounds—cross-country one way.
The shipper Luggage Forward charges $76 to $159 to ship a bag 25 pounds or less one way from New York to Beverly Hills, depending on speed. The $76 option is by ground and takes four to seven business days. On top of the basic fees, Delta charges—each way—an extra $90 for bags 51 to 70 pounds, and $175 for bags 71 to 100 pounds, as well as $175 if the bag’s dimensions total 63 to 80 inches. Luggage Forward charges $195 to $483 to ship an oversized bag—up to 75 pounds—cross-country one way.
Price: The cost varies widely based on the size and weight of your bag, the distance it needs to travel, and the speed of service that you select. To send a 40-pound suitcase from New York to San Francisco in four business days, FedEx quoted us a fee of $55.31 Want it there in two days? The price skyrockets to $217.35. Spirit's fee applies to any carry-on bag that won't fit under the seat in front of you and ranges from $26 to $100 depending on whether you're a member of its $9 Fare Club and whether you pay the fee online, over the phone, at check-in or at the gate.
Luggage shipping services use FedEx, UPS, and DHL to ship you luggage. Cutting out the middle man and shipping directly with one of these services can save you money if you are willing to ship your luggage days, sometimes even a week, in advance. Some airlines issue hefty charges for overweight luggage, while luggage shipping services usually have several different size and weight classes. See the sortable charts below for more information on delivery times and pricing.
- As with the standard shipping companies, using these luggage shipping companies will allow you to bypass check-in lines and baggage carousels. Instead, your luggage will be waiting for you at your hotel when you arrive. Cons: - Personalized service comes at a price. Spirit's fee applies to any carry-on bag that won't fit under the seat in front of you and ranges from $26 to $100 depending on whether you're a member of its $9 Fare Club and whether you pay the fee online, over the phone, at check-in or at the gate.
1 Weigh your luggage before you ship it. 2  Some luggage shipping services have weight limits for different types of bags (ie duffel bag, roller bag, upright bag). 3  Also, measure the length, width, and height of your bag to find its linear dimensions. 4  Compare this with the luggage shipping service's size limits. Some airlines issue hefty charges for overweight luggage, while luggage shipping services usually have several different size and weight classes. See the sortable charts below for more information on delivery times and pricing.
Precise Pricing. Relax, when you ship your luggage with us, we guarantee it will arrive on time or there will be no charge for your shipment and we will give you up to $500 per bag to make it right. It's the best luggage shipping guarantee in the world, period! Click here to learn more. Full Service (+ $50) You pack, we take care of the rest. All paperwork, tagging and wrapping (US only) done on your behalf, with the option to choose a more specific pick up time. Self Service (+ $0) We create and send you all paperwork and labels for your shipment, which you attach to your luggage.