Unit entitlement is a number assigned to each strata lot that determines the share of common property and assets belonging to each strata lot. It is a key factor in the share of strata corporation expenses and liabilities of each strata lot owner including strata fees and special levies. When filing the strata plan with the Land Title Office, the Owner Developer will create and file a Schedule of Unit Entitlement. The Schedule of Unit Entitlement is either a: “ Form V: Schedule of Unit Entitlement ” for strata plans filed on or after July 1, 2000 or a Form 1, for strata plans filed before July 1, 2000. Unit entitlement for residential building strata lots (for example apartment-style condos) is determined by: 1  a whole number based on habitable area in square meters. 2  a whole number that is the same for all residential strata lots or. 3  some other number approved by the Superintendent of Real Estate that is equitable.
The Schedule of Unit Entitlement may be changed by: 1  conversion of a Strata lot to common property. 2  an Order by the Civil and Administrative Tribunal. 3  a Request form 11R (PDF 20KB) pursuant to s28QAA Strata Schemes (Freehold Development) Act 1973 where the commercial value of the units is not altered. Schedule of unit entitlement. A Strata plan must show a Schedule of Unit Entitlement and the Schedule of Unit Entitlement is shown on the common property title created from a Strata plan. The Schedule lists all the lots contained in the Strata plan with the unit entitlement of each individual lot
Full Definition of ENTITLEMENT. 1. a: the state or condition of being entitled: right b: a right to benefits specified especially by law or contract. 2. : a government program providing benefits to members of a specified group; also: funds supporting or distributed by such a program. 3
a) Obtaining a unanimous resolution to change the habitable area and unit entitlement. b) Creating a new Schedule of Unit Entitlement in accordance with the unanimous resolution. c) Making an application to the Land Title Office to amend the unit entitlement, which requires the submission of the following two documents. Unit entitlement for residential building strata lots (for example apartment-style condos) is determined by: 1  a whole number based on habitable area in square meters. 2  a whole number that is the same for all residential strata lots or. 3  some other number approved by the Superintendent of Real Estate that is equitable.
Instead of showing a unit entitlement for the new lot the schedule will indicate that it is Road, Public Reserve or Drainage Reserve as appropriate. The residue lot (after the dedication) should indicate its unit entitlements as appropriate. The schedule should make no reference to land dedicated as road. Where the whole of a lot is dedicated the schedule will include the new lot number allocated to the road or reserve. Instead of showing a unit entitlement the schedule will indicate that the lot is Road, Public Reserve or Drainage Reserve as appropriate. The aggregate should be reduced by the value of the dedicated lot
Schedule of unit entitlements. A replacement schedule of unit entitlements must be provided on the administration sheets of the plan. Where the whole or part of a lot is dedicated as public road or public reserve by a community, precinct or neighbourhood plan of subdivision it is effectively removed from the scheme. Where the whole of a lot is dedicated the schedule will include the new lot number allocated to the road or reserve. Instead of showing a unit entitlement the schedule will indicate that the lot is Road, Public Reserve or Drainage Reserve as appropriate. The aggregate should be reduced by the value of the dedicated lot
Unit entitlement is a number assigned to each strata lot thatdetermines:a) the share of common property and assets belonging toeach strata lot; and. b) the share of strata corporation expenses and liabilities of. each strata lot owner. 2. 
Schedule of Unit Entitlement – when a developer deposits a strata plan at the Land Title Office, the developer must also file a schedule of unit entitlement in the prescribed form. Unit entitlement is a number assigned to each strata lot that determines: a strata lot’s share on the strata corporation’s common expenses. If the strata plan is filed before July l, 2000 under the Condominium Act, the SUE is found near the last page of the plan. In a strata plan filed on or after July 1, 2000 under the strata Property Act, the schedule is found in a separate SUE (form V) filed with the strata plan.