1 Depending on the complexity of your surgery, you may need to be admitted to the hospital for a few days. 2  Have someone drive you home after surgery and help you at home for 1 week. 3  Get plenty of rest. 4  Follow balanced diet. Incision Care. Your surgeon may use staples or sutures to close your incision. You may also have 2 to 4 drains inserted following your surgery. 1  You may shower 48 hours after removal of the drainage tubes. 2  Drains may stay in for several weeks. 3  Avoid exposing scars to sun for at least 12 months. 4  Always use a strong sunblock, if sun exposure is unavoidable (SPF 30 or greater)
Do not drink alcohol for five days after your surgery or while taking narcotic pain medicines. When will I be seen in the office after surgery? You will normally be seen in the office within one week of your surgery and then at about two weeks, six weeks, and six months after surgery to monitor healing. Additional appointments may be necessary. Hematoma (blood collecting under your incisions) can occur within a few days of your surgery. Urgent problems after abdominal panniculectomy do not occur frequently. These are the complications that will require a change in your post-operative care:
Be aware that a panniculectomy patient should have had stable weight for at least six months, and, if a woman, should not be planning to bear children. A potential patient should also be following a reasonable diet and should be in relatively healthy condition. The first few days after a panniculectomy may be uncomfortable due to swelling and bruising. These side effects can be eased with proper care and medication. Patients will need to sponge bathe and wear a support garment. Patients are also advised to avoid strenuous activity for a few weeks.
Recovery Time. Most panniculectomy patients spend at least one night in the hospital recovering. After returning home, it can take several months for the area to heal completely. During the initial recovery phase, lasting several weeks, you may experience swelling, bruising, and discomfort.
However, occasionally, the belly button can take a few weeks longer because of the effects the surgery has on its blood supply. Many belly buttons will bruise and have some scabby healing after surgery, but should generally be healed by 2-4 weeks. It depends: If you had liposuction with your tummy tuck, the swelling will be more pronounced and take longer to resolve. Most patients are about 80%-90% resolved by 4 weeks post-op.
The Panniculectomy Procedure. Panniculectomy is an invasive surgical procedure which can take from three to five hours to complete, and always requires at least one overnight stay at the hospital. Unlike abdominoplasty, panniculectomy does not tighten muscle or reposition the belly button. The first few days after a panniculectomy may be uncomfortable due to swelling and bruising. These side effects can be eased with proper care and medication. Patients will need to sponge bathe and wear a support garment. Patients are also advised to avoid strenuous activity for a few weeks.
The recovery period after your panniculectomy will depend on the individual. A compression garment in the form of an abdominal binder or a shapewear garment of your choosing will need to be worn for about six weeks in order to promote successful healing of the skin. Most people return to work about two weeks after a panniculectomy. Your procedure will be performed under general anesthesia. The incision pattern of the panniculectomy is much like that of a tummy tuck, running horizontally from hipbone to hipbone between your belly button and pubic area.
A panniculectomy is when a pannus is surgically removed. A pannus is excess skin and adipose tissue, sometimes referred to as an apron that hangs down over ones genitals and/or thighs. This excess tissue can make it difficult to maintain good hygiene in the genital area.