Ventricular Fibrillation. Ventricular fibrillation (VF) is a condition in which your heart beats in an abnormal rhythm. While your heart typically beats in a regular, steady pattern, VF causes your heart to beat quickly and out of rhythm. This is an emergency condition that may be brought on by a heart attack. When VF occurs, the two ventricles (chambers) in the lower portion of your heart are not able to pump hard enough to move blood through your body. This makes your blood pressure drop quickly and keeps blood from traveling through your body. As a result, blood cannot get to your vital organs.
Loss of consciousness is the most common sign of ventricular fibrillation. A condition in which the lower chambers of your heart beat too fast (ventricular tachycardia) can lead to ventricular fibrillation. Signs and symptoms of ventricular tachycardia include: 1  Chest pain. 2  Rapid heartbeat (tachycardia). 3  Dizziness. 4  Nausea. 5  Shortness of breath. 6  Loss of consciousness. Early signs and symptoms. A condition in which the lower chambers of your heart beat too fast (ventricular tachycardia) can lead to ventricular fibrillation. Signs and symptoms of ventricular tachycardia include: 1  Chest pain. 2  Rapid heartbeat (tachycardia). 3  Dizziness.
This causes pumping chambers in your heart (the ventricles) to quiver uselessly, instead of pumping blood. Sometimes triggered by a heart attack, ventricular fibrillation causes your blood pressure to plummet, cutting off blood supply to your vital organs. Ventricular fibrillation, an emergency that requires immediate medical attention, causes the person to collapse within seconds. Ventricular fibrillation is a heart rhythm problem that occurs when the heart beats with rapid, erratic electrical impulses.
An arrhythmia that starts in your ventricle is called ventricular fibrillation. This occurs when the electrical signals that tell your heart muscle to pump cause your ventricles to quiver instead. The quivering means that your blood is not pumping blood throughout your body. Because V-fib can lead to cardiac arrest and death, it requires immediate medical attention. A defibrillator is an electronic device used to treat V-fib. It produces an electric shock that can restore a normal heartbeat.
Ventricular fibrillation (VF) is a condition in which your heart beats in an abnormal rhythm. While your heart typically beats in a regular, steady pattern, VF causes your heart to beat quickly and out of rhythm. When VF occurs, the two ventricles (chambers) in the lower portion of your heart are not able to pump hard enough to move blood through your body. This makes your blood pressure drop quickly and keeps blood from traveling through your body. As a result, blood cannot get to your vital organs.
Ventricular fibrillation is a cause of cardiac arrest and sudden cardiac death. The ventricular muscle twitches randomly rather than contracting in a coordinated fashion (from the apex of the heart to the outflow of the ventricles), and so the ventricles fail to pump blood into the arteries and systemic circulation. Ventricular fibrillation is the most commonly identified arrhythmia in cardiac arrest patients. While there is some activity, the lay person is usually unable to detect it by palpating (feeling) the major pulse points of the carotid and femoral arteries. Such an arrhythmia is only confirmed by electrocardiography.
Ventricular fibrillation. Ventricular fibrillation (V-fib) is a type of arrhythmia, or irregular heartbeat that affects your heart’s ventricles. Your heart is a muscle system that contains four chambers; the two bottom chambers are the ventricles. Because V-fib can lead to cardiac arrest and death, it requires immediate medical attention. A defibrillator is an electronic device used to treat V-fib. It produces an electric shock that can restore a normal heartbeat.
Clinical presentation spans the entire spectrum from asymptomatic atrial fibrillation (AF) with rapid ventricular response to cardiogenic shock or devastating cerebrovascular accident (CVA). Physical Examination. Physical examination always begins with airway, breathing, and circulation (ABCs) and vital signs, as these guide the pace of the intervention. The physical examination also provides information on underlying causes and sequelae of atrial fibrillation.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Ventricular fibrillation (V-fib or VF) is a condition in which there is uncoordinated contraction of the cardiac muscle of the ventricles in the heart, making them quiver rather than contract properly. Ventricular fibrillation is the most commonly identified arrhythmia in cardiac arrest patients. While there is some activity, the lay person is usually unable to detect it by palpating (feeling) the major pulse points of the carotid and femoral arteries. Such an arrhythmia is only confirmed by electrocardiography.