Principles of Xeriscape. The word 'xeriscape' is derived from the Greek word 'xeros' meaning dry and was coined by the Denver Water Board to describe a type of landscaping that would be appropriate for the arid West. 
Together, xeriscaping is landscaping with slow-growing, drought-tolerant plants to conserve water and establish a waste-efficient landscape. Landscapes can be designed from the start to reduce the amount of resources needed to maintain them. The word xeriscape is derived from the Greek xeros, meaning dry, and scape, a kind of view or scene.
While xeriscape translates to mean dry scene, in practice xeriscaping means simply landscaping with slow-growing, drought tolerant plants to conserve water and reduce yard trimmings. The practice of xeriscaping will vary from region to region in California. Literally, the word xeriscaping comes from a combination of two other words: xeri derived from the Greek word xeros for dry; and scape, meaning a kind of view or scene.
Definition of XERISCAPE. : a landscaping method developed especially for arid and semiarid climates that utilizes water-conserving techniques (as the use of drought-tolerant plants, mulch, and efficient irrigation). ADVERTISEMENT. bias tape, cityscape, fire escape, friction tape, ticker tape, waterscape, audiotape
The Xeriscape Demonstration Garden at the headquarters of Denver Water in Denver, Colorado. Xeriscaping (often incorrectly spelled zero-scaping or xeroscaping) is landscaping and gardening that reduces or eliminates the need for supplemental water from irrigation. Plants whose natural requirements are appropriate to the local climate are emphasized, and care is taken to avoid losing water to evaporation and run-off. The specific plants used in xeriscaping depend upon the climate.
The term xeriscape is derived from the Greek word xeros, meaning dry. The word was coined by the Front Range Xeriscape Task Force of the Denver Water Department in 1981. The goal of a xeriscape is to create a visually attractive landscape that uses plants selected for their water efficiency. 
Xeriscape landscaping makes use of garden plants that require less water and maintenance. Xeriscaping is often seen in dry, desert climates. You might think this type of garden design is not necessary for those of us living in the Seattle area, but there are several reasons to consider xeriscape landscaping.
Public perception of xeriscaping has generally been negative as many assume that that these types of landscapes are ugly or limiting. However studies have shown that education in water conservation practices in the garden can greatly improve the public's perception of xeriscaping. Plants whose natural requirements are appropriate to the local climate are emphasized, and care is taken to avoid losing water to evaporation and run-off. The specific plants used in xeriscaping depend upon the climate.
Xeriscaping is a form of gardening that focuses on plants and gardening practices that can be maintained with low water levels. The term was coined by the Denver Water Department in 1978, from the Greek word for dry, and xeriscaping has been promoted increasingly since then wherever water is a limited resource. Make a sun chart. Xeriscaping is all about matching the plants to the existing environment, and part of that is finding out how much sun different areas of your garden receive. Every few hours, record where the sun is shining on your map.