7 there are 7 cervical vertebrae in human body there are seven vertebrae in the cervical spine. In a human it is 7 vertebrae that make up the bones in the neck. Additional factoids: Giraffes also have only 7 vertebrae in their necks/cervical spine, the difference i … s each one can be ten inches long! Swans can have as many as 25 vertebral bones in the neck and amphibians can have only o
The_human_spine_has_7_cervical,_12_Thoracic_and_5_Lumbar_vertebrae_as_well_as_5_(fused)_in_the_sacrum_and_another_4_(fused)_in_the_coccyx_which_totals_33. The human spine has 7 cervical, 12 Thoracic and 5 Lumbar vertebrae as well as 5 (fused) in the sacrum and another 4 (fused) in the coccyx which totals 33. Almost all humans are born with 33 separate vertebrae. By adulthood, most have only 24. This is due to the fusion of the vertebrae in certain parts of the spine during normal development.
Best Answer: Giraffes and humans have SEVEN vertebrae in their necks Most mammals have only seven neck bones (cervical vertebrate), but there are exceptions to this rule. The manatee and the two-toed sloth have only SIX cervical vertebrae and the three-toed sloth has NINE cervical vertebrae. 
The human vertebral column consists of 33 vertebrae. These are divided into different regions, which correspond to the curves of the spinal column. These regions are called the cervical spine, thoracic spine, lumbar spine, sacrum and coccyx. There are a total of 33 vertebrae in the vertebral column. The articulating vertebrae are named according to their region of the spine. There are seven cervical vertebrae, twelve thoracic vertebrae and five lumbar vertebrae.
Among the vertebrae of the spinal column, the cervical vertebrae are the thinnest and most delicate bones. Yet, in spite of their size, the cervical vertebrae have the huge jobs of supporting the head, protecting the spinal cord, and providing mobility to the head and neck. The cervical vertebrae are stacked along the length of the neck to form a continuous column between the skull and the chest.... Click to read more below. The cervical vertebrae of the spine consist of seven bony rings that reside in the neck between the base of the skull and the thoracic vertebrae in the trunk
In humans, cervical vertebrae are the smallest of the true vertebrae, and can be readily distinguished from those of the thoracic or lumbar regions by the presence of a foramen (hole) in each transverse process, through which passes the vertebral artery. The remainder of this article focuses upon human anatomy. By convention, the cervical vertebrae are numbered, with the first one (C1) located closest to the skull and higher numbered vertebrae (C2-C7) proceeding away from the skull and down the spine. The general characteristics of the third through sixth cervical vertebrae are described here.
Your spinal cord is protected by the vertebral column (also known as the spinal column or backbone). The human spinal column is made up of 33 bones - 7 vertebrae in the cervical region, 12 in the thoracic region, 5 in the lumbar region, 5 in the sacral region and 4 in the coccygeal region. 
The human vertebral column is the vertebral column (backbone or spine) of the human skeleton, consisting of 24 articulating vertebrae and 9 fused vertebrae in the sacrum and the coccyx. The vertebrae in the column are separated from each other by intervertebral discs. There are a total of 33 vertebrae in the vertebral column. The articulating vertebrae are named according to their region of the spine. There are seven cervical vertebrae, twelve thoracic vertebrae and five lumbar vertebrae.
The vertebral column usually consists of 33 vertebrae: 24 presacral vertebrae (7 cervical, 12 thoracic, and 5 lumbar) followed by the sacrum (5 fused sacral vertebrae) and the coccyx (4 frequently fused coccygeal vertebrae). The 24 presacral vertebrae allow movement and hence render the vertebral column flexible. 