Upload to Facebook Mobile. Go to Facebook.com/mobile/ and sign into your account. You'll find your personalized upload email address at the bottom of the page under the Upload Via Email section. Select a photo from the media files contained in your device.
Sign into your Facebook account. Click the Photo option located next to Share at the top of your homepage or profile. Select your upload option, which can be Upload a Photo from Your Drive, Take a Photo With a Webcam or Create an Album With Many Photos.. Follow the prompts in the resulting boxes to browse and select images from your computer. Go to Facebook.com/mobile/ and sign into your account. You'll find your personalized upload email address at the bottom of the page under the Upload Via Email section. Select a photo from the media files contained in your device.
Transfer Single Photo. Open a Web browser and log into Facebook. Click Photo at the top of the page, just under the News Feed title. Click Upload a Photo, then click the Browse button. A navigation window opens. Find the photo you want to transfer to Facebook in the navigation window and click on it, then click Open.. Type a message to appear with your photo in the text box if desired. Click on a photo you want to place in the new album. You can choose additional photos in the same folder on your hard drive by holding the Ctrl key when you click on them. Click Open.. Type a name for the album in the Name of Album text field. Add a location if desired by typing it in the Location
One of them says, 'Photos'. Click on it and to the right, you should be able to easily find a 'Create a photo album' option. Select … it by clicking on it. Once you are through with specifying the Name and Captions for the album, select, 'Create Photo Album' again. Then follow the steps below to move photos from Mac to your iPhone.  Open up AnyTrans, and connect your iPhone to computer. AnyTrans  will show you the storage condition of your iPhone and the iOS  content it supports.   On the homepage, click on Photos option to enter the manage page.
Shares & Saves. Save. You can transfer photos from your computer to Facebook one at a time, or an entire set of photos to a new photo album on your Facebook profile. When uploading a single photo on your homepage, the photo will be displayed on your wall, and will be placed in an album called Wall Photos.. Click on a photo you want to place in the new album. You can choose additional photos in the same folder on your hard drive by holding the Ctrl key when you click on them. Click Open.. Type a name for the album in the Name of Album text field. Add a location if desired by typing it in the Location
Step 5. Select the picture you want to send to your Facebook profile and click Open to upload it. Step 6. Select the High Quality option at the bottom of the page if you want to post a high-quality image. Step 7. Click the Post Photos button to post the picture on your profile. 
To be able to upload photos in Facebook using Windows Live Photo Gallery you must have a Windows Live account that is connected to your Facebook account. If you don’t have one yet, we recommend that you link your Windows Live account to Facebook. To do this, please follow the steps below. 
If you have the picture saved to digital camera, take out the cameras memory card (called a Micro SD card), and insert it into your computer's Micro SD port. If you're computer doesn't have one, you can buy a Micro SD to USB adapter, and plug it into a USB port. Then follow the steps below to move photos from Mac to your iPhone.  Open up AnyTrans, and connect your iPhone to computer. AnyTrans  will show you the storage condition of your iPhone and the iOS  content it supports.   On the homepage, click on Photos option to enter the manage page.
Creating Album. Open a Web browser and log into Facebook. Click Create an Album at the top of the page. Click the Share button. A dialog box opens. Click Select Photos.. A navigation window opens. Click on a photo you want to place in the new album. You can choose additional photos in the same folder on your hard drive by holding the Ctrl key when you click on them. Click Open.. Type a name for the album in the Name of Album text field. Add a location if desired by typing it in the Location text field.
You can't move photos that are in your Cover Photo or Profile Picture albums, but you can move photos between your other photo albums. To move a photo to another album: 1  Go to your profile and click Photos. 2  Click Albums. 3  Go to the album with the photo you want to move. 4  Hover over the photo and click. 5  Select Move To Other Album and move the photo to an album you choose from the dropdown menu. 6  Click Move Photo. 