Salsify: Winter's asparagus. The long roots of the salsify plant stay underground until they are removed. When the root vegetable is freed of it's dark skin, it looks amazingly similar to asparagus, although it is in fact a relative of the artichoke. The salsify plant has a nutty flavour and is full of nutrients and minerals. Particularly valuable is the high proportion of roughage, which aids digestion
Print. A root vegetable that is typically referred to by either of two names, white Salsify or black Salsify. Often confusing to many, the main difference between the two is their appearance while their flavor and use are very similar. One inch or less in diameter and only two to five inches in length, the white Salsify root is much shorter than the Scorzonera root which may be 6 to 12 inches in length. The Scorzonera or black Salsify is darker colored with a smoother-textured outer skin.
Some say salsify has the subtle, sweet flavor of an oyster. Some say salsify has the flavor of asparagus or artichokes. Others say no. Two things are for sure: salsify is sometimes called “oyster plant”, and salsify can be cooked in many of the same ways as asparagus or artichokes. It can be baked, boiled, or braised. Salsify is parsnip-or carrot-shaped with a grayish to golden skin and pearly white flesh.
By Franz Scheurer. Salsify is a neglected vegetable in Australia, which is a pity as it is wonderful in both flavour and texture. Salsify is also known as Oyster Plant, Vegetable Oyster or Poor Man s Asparagus.
I recently planted Salsify, also known as Oyster Plant or Vegetable Oyster, in my garden and the seeds have already sprouted and began growing. 
White and black Salsify are commonly known as White or Black Oyster plant in reference to their color and flavor for what many historically believed was a root tasting similar to the delicate flavor of oysters. However, the flavor of Salsify is closer to that of asparagus or artichoke hearts than it is to an oyster. One inch or less in diameter and only two to five inches in length, the white Salsify root is much shorter than the Scorzonera root which may be 6 to 12 inches in length. The Scorzonera or black Salsify is darker colored with a smoother-textured outer skin.
Salsify recipes. One of the lesser known root vegetables, salsify is also known as oyster plant because it tastes slightly of oysters. It has a beige-white skin and looks similar to a long carrot in shape. Preparation. Salsify can be used in a similar way to any other root vegetable-add it to soups and stews, or serve it mashed. Alternatively, try adding cooked, grated, delicately flavoured salsify to salads.