The Black Boule: Privilage. To bring a clear understanding of who the Black Boule are, you first have to understand the terms, field negroe,house negroe, and Uncle Tom. The first two terms were coined because, although BOTH were slaves to the white man during slavery-times. One held himself above the other. Secret Society BLACK BOULE-aka - The Talented Tenth: with a non-black reader in mind. I will go straight to URBAN DICTIONARY to define Uncle Tom. There is no need to go into the whole regurg of who wrote the book Uncle Tom's Cabin...it's critiscisms or anything because I really don't care.
1 Boule, a casino game similar to roulette. 2  Boule (ancient Greece) , plural boulai, an assembly forming part of city governments in Ancient Greece. 3  Boule (bread) , a round loaf of white (often sourdough) bread, from boule, the French word for 'ball'. 4  Boule (community) , a community of the Ivory Coast, West Africa. 1 Boule (ancient Greece) , plural boulai, an assembly forming part of city governments in Ancient Greece. 2  Boule (bread) , a round loaf of white (often sourdough) bread, from boule, the French word for 'ball'. 3  Boule (community) , a community of the Ivory Coast, West Africa.
This is why we it’s difficult to get any of the Boule’ member’s to tell us what’s up. Thanks, to an article written July 18th, 1990 of the LA Times and one published in the, Washington Post, November 23, 1991, this secret society was exposed. In 1904, the first African-American Greek Secret Society was formed in Philadelphia, by Dr. Henry Minton and five of his colleagues. The Boule, (an acronym for Sigma Pi Phi) and pronounced “boo-lay”), was formed to bring together a select group of educated Black men and women.
[bul]) is a collective name for a wide range of games in which the objective is to throw or roll heavy balls (called boules in France, and bocce in Italy) as close as possible to a small target ball. Boules games may also be subdivided into two other categories based on typical throwing technique: 1  games where there is a run up to the throw (for example, boule lyonnaise, bocce volo).
Boule may refer to: 1  Boule, a casino game similar to roulette. 2  Boule (ancient Greece) , plural boulai, an assembly forming part of city governments in Ancient Greece. 1 Boule (ancient Greece) , plural boulai, an assembly forming part of city governments in Ancient Greece. 2  Boule (bread) , a round loaf of white (often sourdough) bread, from boule, the French word for 'ball'. 3  Boule (community) , a community of the Ivory Coast, West Africa.
The Boule' is a black GREEK secret society based on another secret society founded at Yale University called Skull & Bones. The Boule's primary founder was Dr. Henry Minton (along with Dr.'s Eugene T. Henson, Edwin Clarence Howard, Algernon Brashear Jackson, Robert Jones Abele and Richard John Warrick), of Philadelphia. In 1904, the first African-American Greek Secret Society was formed in Philadelphia, by Dr. Henry Minton and five of his colleagues. The Boule, (an acronym for Sigma Pi Phi) and pronounced boo-lay), was formed to bring together a select group of educated Black men and women.
Definition of BOULE. : a legislative council of ancient Greece consisting first of an aristocratic advisory body and later of a representative senate. ADVERTISEMENT.
Dedicated playing areas for boules-type games are typically large, level, rectangular courts made of flattened earth, gravel, or crushed stone, enclosed in wooden rails or back boards. In the south of France, the word boules is also often used as a synonym for petanque. pétanque Boules games may also be subdivided into two other categories based on typical throwing technique: 1  games where there is a run up to the throw (for example, boule lyonnaise, bocce volo).
boule ‎(plural boules). 1  One of the bowls used in the French game of boules. 2  A single-crystal ingot produced by synthetic means. 3  A round loaf of bread. 4  A round piece of dough. ( 5 woodworking) A through-sawn log with the slices restacked in the order and orientation they originally had in the log, usually with waney edges. 