Most newborns need eight to 12 feedings a day — about one feeding every two to three hours. While waking up a sleeping baby might seem like a bad idea, frequent feedings early on are important for a couple of reasons: 1  Crying is a late sign of hunger. 2  Frequent feedings support early breast-feeding.
Whether you should wake a sleeping newborn for feedings depends on the baby's age, weight and overall health. Most newborns lose weight in the first few days after birth. Until your newborn regains this lost weight — usually within one week after birth — it's important to feed him or her frequently. While waking up a sleeping baby might seem like a bad idea, frequent feedings early on are important for a couple of reasons: 1  Crying is a late sign of hunger. 2  Frequent feedings support early breast-feeding.
Most babies will eat while they are sleeping but if you need to wake your child up then I suggest changing his diaper and giving him a little massage to stimulate him. If your baby is a little fussy about being woke up it's ok. It will not hurt if he cries a little, it's good for his lungs. Yes | No Thank you! My Daughter is 6 weeks now, and i never wake her up to eat she sleeps 6 hours straight without feeding her, shes gaining weight just fine ! keep your baby a sleep do NOT wake him/her up. posted 06/14/2013 by hgoerg01. Report answer.
Yes | No Thank you! My baby is now 4 months old. When he was born, the lactation consultants at the hospital said to feed every 3-4 hours, and to wake him up for feedings during the day but not at night. Until now, he wakes up on his own every 3 hours or so at night. Some nights he did sleep for 4 or 5 hours. Yes | No Thank you! My Daughter is 6 weeks now, and i never wake her up to eat she sleeps 6 hours straight without feeding her, shes gaining weight just fine ! keep your baby a sleep do NOT wake him/her up. posted 06/14/2013 by hgoerg01. Report answer.
Most babies will start sleeping at night at about four months of age. You won’t get an uninterrupted stretch of the baby sleeping 10-12 hours, but you will get about five hours and then another good uninterrupted stretch after a night feed. Don’t worry if your baby is four months old and still isn’t sleeping that long. You can help him along by letting him sleep at night, not waking him to feed and by keeping things dark and quiet
Yes | No Thank you! As a mother and a childcare provider I believe that there is no reason to wake a sleeping baby to feed them except in the first month so they can get on a schedule or if they have slept through two feedings. Yes | No Thank you! My Daughter is 6 weeks now, and i never wake her up to eat she sleeps 6 hours straight without feeding her, shes gaining weight just fine ! keep your baby a sleep do NOT wake him/her up. posted 06/14/2013 by hgoerg01. Report answer.
At 2 wks you should definitely be waking her up at 3-3 1/2 hours during the day. You don't want her to get her days and nights confused. At night if she will sleep 4-5 hours I would let her sleep so you can get a little shut eye. You definitely do not want to wake her at night to feed so that she gets used to sleeping at night. During the day she shouldn't be sleeping more than 4 hours at one time. I have a 6 week old. Trust me you need all the sleep you can get. posted 11/21/2007 by Luana Paloma. Report answer.
Even if you don't wake your baby to eat, she may still wake up on her own looking to eat, or she may not: by 3 months, most babies sleep six to eight hours in a row at night, according to the Kids Health website. Baby's Nighttime Nutritional Needs. A breastfed newborn needs to eat every two to three hours during the day and should go no longer than four hours at night without a feeding, according to the Healthy Children website. These regular feedings are necessary for her growth and help you establish a regular milk supply.
Don’t worry if your baby is four months old and still isn’t sleeping that long. You can help her along by letting her sleep at night, not waking her to feed, and by keeping things dark and quiet. Save the exciting, fun things until daytime. 