1 Clary sage oil is extracted from the clary sage herb (Salvia sclarea), which in the past was found in Southern France, Italy, and Syria, but today is cultivated worldwide. 2  Clary sage oil is often used to improve vision and address related conditions, such as tired or strained eyes. A close relative of the common garden sage, the clary sage is a perennial herb that grows from May to September. When converted into an essential oil, clary sage provides outstanding benefits for your eyes, nervous system, digestion, and kidneys.
Clary sage oil is extracted from the clary sage herb (Salvia sclarea), which in the past was found in Southern France, Italy, and Syria, but today is cultivated worldwide – mostly within European regions, including Central Europe, as well as England, Morocco, Russia, and the United States. A close relative of the common garden sage, the clary sage is a perennial herb that grows from May to September. When converted into an essential oil, clary sage provides outstanding benefits for your eyes, nervous system, digestion, and kidneys.
Salvia sclarea, clary, or clary sage, is a biennial or short-lived herbaceous perennial in the genus Salvia. It is native to the northern Mediterranean, along with some areas in north Africa and Central Asia. 
CLARY SAGE Overview Information. Clary sage is an herb. The flowers and leaves are used to make medicine. Don’t confuse clary sage with sage leaf (Salvia officinalis). Clary sage is used for upset stomach and other digestive disorders, as well as kidney diseases. Some people use clary sage mucilage, an oily substance secreted by the plant, to remove foreign objects from the eye, to remove thorns and splinters from the skin, and for treating tumors.
Clary sage is sweeter and 'fresher' than Dalmation Sage, which smells just like sniffing a jar of crushed sage you'd use to flavor meat. The clary sage has a hint of peppermint in the mix, too. Clary sage absolute is even more 'pepperminty' and fresh and sweeter than the clary sage oil. Both of those are, as mentioned, sweeter, and fresher than the dalmation sage, which has that bitter, biting, aromatic edge to it. 
Common Sage vs. Clary Sage. Two of the most common species of sage used as an essential oil in aromatherapy practice are common sage (Salvia officinalis) and clary sage (Salvia sclarea) . Both oils are composed of different chemical components.
Clary sage oil (Salvia sclarea) is an essential oil derived from a steam distillation of the flowering plant. 
The health benefits of Clary Sage Essential Oil can be attributed to its properties as an antidepressant, anticonvulsive, antispasmodic, antiseptic, aphrodisiac, astringent, bactericidal, carminative, deodorant, digestive, emenagogue, euphoric, hypotensive, nervine, sedative, stomachic and uterine substance. Aphrodisiac: This is one of the most well known properties of Clary Sage oil. It is an aphrodisiac, which means a substance or stimulus that boosts libido and feelings of sexual desire. It is very effective in treating frigidity, psychological problems resulting in loss of libido, and even impotency.
Best Answer: Clary sage (salvia sclarea) and common sage (salvia officinalis) are both members of the sage family. They both produce an essential oil. However it is clary sage which is most often used in aromatherapy as common sage as very powerful and is considered toxic, due to high levels of keytones, particularly thujone. For this reason clary sage is sometimes referred to as clary to distance it from other sages. Neither oil should be used during pregnancy. 
Historical Uses of the Sage Oils Clary Sage (salvia sclarea) was a popular herb in the Middle Ages; it was used as a general nerve tonic, for digestive disorders, kidney disease and uterine and menstrual complaints amongst others. 