Proev prøv igjen. Senere publisert. 12. feb. 2013 here is a OhMiBod Ohmibod-Overview-Review Where tech And Pleasure Come-Together if you are bold, enough read on for OhMiBod Ohmibod! Review High Tech Vibrators Are! Here i found this little gem In Las vegas AT ces. OhMiBod ohmibod is A bluetooth enabled, personal, 'ahem'. massager Publisert 12. feb. 2013. Here is a fun OhMiBod Overview-Review-Where Tech and Pleasure Come Together-If you are bold enough, read on for the OhMiBod Review! High Tech Vibrators Are Here! I found this little gem in Las Vegas at CES 2013. OhMiBod is a Bluetooth enabled personal, ahem, 'massager'. I'm serious -- this is really on sale.
OhMiBod is the creator of the original iPod ® vibrator. Headquartered in New Hampshire, USA, the female-owned and operated company is driving the evolution of the pleasure industry with an expansive range of high quality, body-safe products that combine technology with sensuality. It's been quite a ride since our launch in 2006. OhMiBod has evolved from the iPod ® vibrator to an award-winning innovator of technology-focused pleasure products that boast features such as wireless remote control, Bluetooth connectivity, and triple stimulation
“What makes OhMiBod’s blueMotion special isn’t the technology beating behind it’s glowing blue light, it’s the fact that this pleasure product was inspired by a sincere desire bring people people together and enhance intimacy regardless of where they are.”. http://bopleasure.com/ohmibods-bluemotion. 1  #bluemotion. 
Description. The OhMiBod Remote App is a revolutionary way to “connect intimately” with your partner, either locally or from virtually anywhere in the world. 
BLUETOOTH ENABLED Vibrator. Our Bluetooth enabled massagers maximize your pleasure while delivering the ultimate in discretion. Whether you have a partner in crime or enjoy going solo, the blueMotion products have the power to tantalize and titillateanytime, from anywhere. Vibrators have the power to soothe, ignite, excite, and liberate. But the positives don't end there. For many, vibrators and other intimate pleasure products hold the key to improved sexual health, well being, and confidence.
OhMiBod is a musically-powered vibrating sex toy. The device translates an electronic music output into vibrations. The volume and beat of the music determines the strength of the vibrations. The Australian distribution rights for the product were secured in November 2006 and had sold over 2000 products by May 2007. Though the device will work with any output, marketing of the product was aimed at iPod user
OhMiBod vibrators and pleasure accessories often feature in leading publications ... ... just to name a few. We have also graced the pages of news outlets such as: ... in articles about the importance of vibrators to sexual health, as well as their impact on the marriage of tech and sex in the digital age. Headquartered in New Hampshire, USA, the female-owned and operated company is driving the evolution of the pleasure industry with an expansive range of high quality, body-safe products that combine technology with sensuality. It's been quite a ride since our launch in 2006.
Seven Days of OhMiBod (It’s a contest!). Welcome to the seven days of OhMiBod! If you’ve been in the OhMiBod family since the early days, you know it’s been a long, long time since we ran a contest for free goodies. To make up for this incredible drought, we are giving away a few blueMotion remote vibes and Lovelife massagers ! 1 OhMiBod will post and tweet a status update at Noon (PST). 2  It could be a picture, a trivia question, or even a link to an article. 3  Enter to win by responding in the comments (Facebook) or tweeting your response with #7daysofOMB (one allowed per post/tweet). 4  Sharing and retweeting will increase your odds of winning.
OhMiBod is committed to bringing these benefits to singles and couples alike. Our mission is two-fold: Shifting cultural attitudes toward the use of vibrators and the vital role they play in our lives, and delivering high-quality, body-safe products that look as good as they feel. Vibrators have the power to soothe, ignite, excite, and liberate. But the positives don't end there. For many, vibrators and other intimate pleasure products hold the key to improved sexual health, well being, and confidence.