Welcome to Bridgetown. With a population of about 110,000, Bridgetown is the island's largest and most vibrant city! After all, it is the capital and commercial centre of Barbados. Steeped in rich history and culture, Bridgetown today reflects a mix of the old and the new, with historic sites and buildings sitting amongst modern structures like multi-storey offices, financial institutions and shopping malls.
You probably already know that Barbados is known for having some of the friendliest people anywhere. It's a small country (21 miles long) so you may very well run into guys like Shane and Brian. Shane heads an accounting team at a large firm in Barbados. 
1 Is the birthplace of Rihanna, who moved from Barbados to the United States at the age of sixteen to pursue her music career. 2  Was chosen by Tiger Woods as the location for his wedding in 2004. 3  The name 'Barbados' is derived from the Bearded Fig Trees once found in abundance on the island. 
Barbados is located at 13 north of the equator and 50 32' west of the prime meridian. Barbados is part of the Caribbean islands and is in North America because even though it' … s closer to South America it is on all the North America maps. The word barbados is Portuguese for bearded (ones) -- similar  to the Spanish word barbudos -- but it is not conclusively known  what the term was referring to.
Barbados (/bɑrˈbeɪdɒs/ or /bɑrˈbeɪdoʊs/) is a sovereign island country in the Lesser Antilles. It is 34 kilometres (21 mi) in length and up to 23 kilometres (14 mi) in width, covering an area of 432 square kilometres (167 sq mi). Barbados is situated in the Atlantic Ocean, east of the other West Indies Islands. Barbados is the easternmost island in the Lesser Antilles. It is flat in comparison to its island neighbours to the west, the Windward Islands.
The special flavours of most Barbados food is due to our blend of herbs and spices known as Barbados seasoning or Bajan Seasoning. This blend includes thyme, marjoram, green onions and parsley to name a few. Barbados rum is also a popular cooking ingredient :). 
The island of Barbados is known for excellent and diverse cuisine; therefore it was extremely difficult to compile a list of only 10 delicacies of Barbados. Barbadians love their food and there are many dishes and delicacies unique to the island. In fact, it is one of the national symbols of Barbados and features prominently on national artifacts like coins and local artwork. Barbados is known as 'the land of the flying fish' and it accounts for about 60% of all the fish landed on
The capital of Barbados is a small town known as Bridgetown Barbados and is located at the south west corner of the island. This is in the parish of St Michael Barbados along Carlisle Bay. A little history of Bridgetown Barbados…. The city was originally founded by British settlers in 1628. Bridgetown is often referred to as ’Town’ by the locals and is our only major city. The population of Bridgetown is about 97,000 with an area of 35 km sq or 13.5 sq. miles. This is more than 1/3 of the entire island’s population!
Barbados is outside of the principal Atlantic hurricane belt. Inhabited by Kalingo people since the 13th century, and prior to that by other Amerindians, Barbados was visited by Spanish navigators in the late 15th century and claimed for the Spanish Crown. It first appears on a Spanish map from 1511. Barbados is situated in the Atlantic Ocean, east of the other West Indies Islands. Barbados is the easternmost island in the Lesser Antilles. It is flat in comparison to its island neighbours to the west, the Windward Islands.
1 The oldest Church in Barbados is St. James Parish Church in the parish of St. James. 2  Barbados is the only island in the Caribbean that has daily flights to United States, Canada, and England. 3  Is the birthplace of Rihanna, who moved from Barbados to the United States at the age of sixteen to pursue her music career. 1 Barbados highest point is 1,100 ft above sea level. 2  The first aircraft in Barbados was brought over by ship to Bridgetown, assembled and then flown from the Garrison Savannah in 1913. 3 