1 The color of the text under each food represents the pH rating. 2  This chart is based on the resulting pH ash of foods after digestion. 3  This is the reading you should go by when alkalizing foods for your body. 4  You should aim for a 70/30 ratio between high alkaline vs acid foods. How The List of Alkaline Foods Works. 1 
But the foods you're supposed to eat on the alkaline diet are good for you and will support a healthy weight loss: lots of fruits and vegetables, and lots of water. Avoiding sugar, alcohol, and processed foods is healthy weight-loss advice, too. Your stomach is very acidic, with a pH of 3.5 or below, so it can break down food. And your urine changes, depending on what you eat -- that's how your body keeps the level in your blood steady. The alkaline diet claims to help your body maintain its blood pH level.
To maintain health, the diet should consist of 60% alkaline forming foods and 40% acid forming foods. To restore health, the diet should consist of 80% alkaline forming foods and 20% acid forming foods. Generally, acid forming foods include: meat, fish, poultry, eggs, grains, and legumes. Shifting Your pH Toward Alkaline... This chart is for those trying to adjust their body pH. The pH scale is from 0 to 14, with numbers below 7 acidic (low on oxygen) and numbers above 7 alkaline. An acidic body is a sickness magnet.
What You Can and Can't Eat. Most fruits and vegetables, soybeans and tofu, and some nuts, seeds, and legumes are alkaline-promoting foods, so they're fair game. Dairy, eggs, meat, most grains, and processed foods, like canned and packaged snacks and convenience foods, fall on the acid side and are not allowed. Your stomach is very acidic, with a pH of 3.5 or below, so it can break down food. And your urine changes, depending on what you eat -- that's how your body keeps the level in your blood steady. The alkaline diet claims to help your body maintain its blood pH level.
An alkaline diet emphasizes alkaline foods such as whole fruits and vegetables and certain whole grains, which are low in caloric density. Healthy Alkaline Diet Foods involve the ideal balance between acidifying and alkalizing foods. The body includes a number of organ systems that are adept at neutralizing and eliminating excess acid, but there is a limit to how much acid even a healthy body can cope with effectively.
Alkaline foods are foods that raise the the amount of oxygen that your blood takes in. The most alkalizing foods are RAW green leafy vegetables, non-sweet fruits and (wheat) grasses. The opposite of alkaline foods are acid foods. How much oxygen your blood can absorb is measured on a pH scale that ranges from 0 to 14. A pH of 0 is most acidic while a pH of 14 is most alkaline.
1) When you are preparing the foods for a meal, look at a particular category of the foods and select more foods in the alkaline category. 2) This alkaline food chart is only accurate for certain state of the foods. For example, cooked lettuce has a different pH value compared to a boiled lettuce. 4) This alkaline food chart is based on the “residue” or “ash” of the foods after it has been digested in the stomach. This is why you will find lemon is alkaline and not acidic. 5) Bookmark this page and come back to this page whenever you need.
The theory is that some foods, like meat, wheat, refined sugar, and processed foods, cause your body to produce acid, which is bad for you. Eating specific foods that make your body more alkaline, on the other hand, can protect against those conditions as well as shed pounds. Your stomach is very acidic, with a pH of 3.5 or below, so it can break down food. And your urine changes, depending on what you eat -- that's how your body keeps the level in your blood steady. The alkaline diet claims to help your body maintain its blood pH level.
How the body reacts to certain foods is what determines what foods are alkaline-forming and what foods are acid-forming. For example lemons are acidic in nature, but have an alkalizing effect on the body once they are digested. Similarly, milk is alkaline outside the body, but acidic upon digestion. 
Generally, alkaline forming foods include: most fruits, green vegetables, peas, beans, lentils, spices, herbs and seasonings, and seeds and nuts. Generally, acid forming foods include: meat, fish, poultry, eggs, grains, and legumes. Shifting Your pH Toward Alkaline... This chart is for those trying to adjust their body pH. The pH scale is from 0 to 14, with numbers below 7 acidic (low on oxygen) and numbers above 7 alkaline. An acidic body is a sickness magnet.