Among other things wheatgrass juice is particularly high in chlorophyll. Wheatgrass cleanses and builds the blood due to its high content of chlorophyll. Chlorophyll is the first product of light and therefore contains more healing properties than any other element. All life on this planet comes from the sun. 
Wheatgrass is a complete health food composed of the young shoots of wheat (speciesTriticum aestivum) before stalks form a head with grain. Vibrant and full of rich green chlorophyll, they are grown from the sprouted wheat berries (wheat seed) which is the whole kernel of the wheat grain. Wheatgrass is superior to other vegetables because it has been found to have over 100 elements needed by man. If grown in organic soil, wheatgrass absorbs 92 of the known 102 minerals from the soil, which includes calcium, magnesium, iron, zinc, potassium, phosphorus and cobalt. Wheatgrass is a vitamin-rich super food.
Wheatgrass is used for cancer and arthritis in alternative treatment programs. Wheatgrass contains a lot of chlorophyll, the chemical in plants that makes them green and also allows them to make energy from sunlight through photosynthesis. Some people think chlorophyll might fight cancer and arthritis. Wheatgrass juice is a popular health drink. Wheatgrass is primarily used as a concentrated source of nutrients. It contains vitamin A, vitamin C, and vitamin E, iron, calcium, magnesium, and amino acids. Wheatgrass is used to treat many conditions, but so far there isn’t enough scientific evidence to support effectiveness for any of these uses.
Wheatgrass is the young grass of the wheat plant, Triticum aestivum. Wheatgrass grows in temperate regions throughout Europe and the United States and can grow indoors or outdoors. You can grow your own wheatgrass by soaking wheat seeds in water and then harvesting the leaves as they grow. Wheatgrass is a natural source of vitamins and antioxidants including: 1  Antioxidant vitamins A, C and E. 2  The B group vitamins thiamine, riboflavin, niacin, vitamin B6 and panthothenic acid. 3  Minerals manganese, zinc, magnesium, iron.
It is sold either as a juice or powder concentrate. Wheatgrass differs from wheat malt in that it is served freeze-dried or fresh, while wheat malt is convectively dried. Wheatgrass is allowed to grow longer than malt. Like most plants, it contains chlorophyll, amino acids, minerals, vitamins, and enzymes. Claims about the health benefits of wheatgrass range from providing supplemental nutrition to having unique curative properties, though few, if any, have been scientifically proven. It is available as fresh produce, tablets, frozen juice and powder. Wheatgrass is also available commercially as a spray, cream, gel, massage lotion, and a liquid herbal supplement.
Wheatgrass is a natural source of vitamins and minerals (a few of which are antioxidants) including: 1  Vitamins A, E, and B-12. 2  Calcium. 3  Selenium. 4  Magnesium. 5  Iron. 
1 Wheatgrass contains high amounts of chlorophyll, and is thought to have a wide variety of health promoting properties but its benefits are related to the quality of how it is grown. 2  Wheat grass should not be used long term as it is not a food but a highly detoxifying medicinal herb. Story at-a-glance 1  +. Wheatgrass contains high amounts of chlorophyll, and is thought to have a wide variety of health promoting properties but its benefits are related to the quality of how it is grown. 2  Wheat grass should not be used long term as it is not a food but a highly detoxifying medicinal herb.
Although wheatgrass is high in a number of amino acids, enzymes, vitamins, minerals, chlorophyll, and fiber, other vegetables contain these things in high amounts as well. Wheatgrass is a term used for the young Agropyron plants, which are closely related to wheat, but look like a fairly typical lawn grass when in its early stages.
Wheatgrass is a nutrient-rich type of young grass in the wheat family. It's sold as a dietary supplement in tablet, capsule and liquid forms. Wheatgrass is often used for juicing, or added to smoothies or tea. Some proponents tout wheatgrass as a treatment for cancer, anemia, diabetes, constipation, infections, skin conditions, ulcerative colitis and joint pain, among other health concerns. However, there are few research studies about wheatgrass, so it's difficult to assess such health claims.