Overall, P. aeruginosa flagellum and pili have similar functionality (for attachment) and structure (both are filamentous structures on the surface of the cell), and their motility is controlled by RpoN, especially during initial attachment to the human host and under low nutrient conditions (1).
Under ideal conditions, P. aeruginosa uses its flagellum and/or fimbriae to anchor itself and possibly to each other on a surface to produce a growing mat of bacteria cells. The bacteria growing together in this manner called a biofilm and may have developed evolutionally as a protection mechanism.
This bacterium is an aerobic gram negative rod with single polar flagellum which allows it to be mobile. [3] Microscopic view measures approximately 0.5-0.8 micrometers by 1.5-3.0 micrometers. [3] P. aeruginosa is responsible for the majority of nosocomial infections. [2].
P. aeruginosa has a cell wall that is Gram-negative as it is composed of three layers; the plasma membrane, a thin peptidoglycan layer, and an outer membrane. Gram-negative bacterium generally have seven different pathways of protein secretions, and three of them are seen in P. aeruginosa.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa Mindy Merenghi Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a Gram-negative, rod-shaped bacterium in the Gamma Proteobacteria class. The metabolism is respiratory, and never fermentative. It can grow in the absence of oxygen (facultative aerobe), with NO3 as the respiratory electron acceptor.
Protein F--Since P. aeruginosa is a Gram-negative microbe, it has an outer membrane which contains Protein F (OprF). OprF functions as a porin, allowing certain molecules and ions to come into the cells, and as a structural protein, maintaining the bacterial cell shape.
The Pseudomonas genus includes bacteria that are straight or slightly curved rods. P. aeruginosa is a rod-shaped bacterium. Its size ranges from 0.5 to 1.0mm by 1.5 to 5.0mm in terms of its length and width. Almost all types of strains are motile by means of a polar flagellum (Todar).
Like many bacteria, P. aeruginosa is a single cell rod shaped organism that has a flagellum, fimbriae, and at least one pilus. The flagellum is used to propel the bacterium around or to anchor it to a substrate or other P aeruginosa cells.