PTH stands for parathyroid hormone. It is a protein hormone released by the parathyroid gland. The parathyroid glands are located in the neck, near or attached to the back side of the thyroid gland. Parathyroid hormone controls calcium, phosphorus, and vitamin D levels in the blood and bone. Release of PTH is controlled by the level of calcium in the blood. Low blood calcium levels cause increased PTH to be released, while high blood calcium levels block PTH release. A laboratory test can be done to measure the amount of PTH in your blood.
The key purpose of the parathyroid glands is to keep the calcium and phosphorus in the blood at a constant, normal level. If, for example, the blood calcium becomes low, the parathyroid gland will respond by secreting more PTH. This extra PTH then will pull calcium from the bones, correcting the low blood level. 
It is a type of protein hormone and is produced by the parathyroid glands. Its release is said to depend on the calcium levels of the body. When there is low calcium concentration in the blood, the parathyroid glands release PTH. High calcium levels meanwhile will stop the release of PTH into the blood stream. PTH’s release based on calcium levels is said to be a very important physiological process for the body. PTH mobilizes calcium levels from the bone to the blood. It also helps in calcium absorption in the small intestines and helps in activating Vitamin D production.
1 If calcium levels are high and PTH levels are high, then the parathyroid glands are producing inappropriately high amounts of PTH. 2  A health practitioner may order X-rays or other imaging studies to help determine the cause and evaluate the severity of hyperparathyroidism. If both PTH and calcium levels are normal, then it is likely that the body's calcium regulation system is functioning properly. Low levels of PTH may be due to conditions causing hypercalcemia or to an abnormality in PTH production causing hypo
When calcium levels are low, the parathyroid glands increase PTH production. When the calcium levels are high, the glands slow secretion of PTH. Sometimes doctors need to measure how much PTH is in your blood. Because of the relationship between calcium and PTH in the blood, often both are tested at the same time. Parathyroid hormone (PTH), also known as parathormone, is a hormone released by the parathyroid glands. The four parathyroid glands are located in your neck, next to the thyroid gland. These glands are responsible for managing calcium, vitamin D, and phosphorus levels in the blood and bones
While PTH acts to increase the concentration of ionic calcium (Ca 2+) in the blood, calcitonin, a hormone produced by the parafollicular cells (C cells) of the thyroid gland, acts to decrease ionic calcium concentration. 
The so-called intact PTH is the most frequently ordered parathyroid hormone test. It is used to help diagnose the cause of a low or high calcium level and to help distinguish between parathyroid-related and non-parathyroid-related causes. It may also be used to monitor the effectiveness of treatment when an individual has a parathyroid-related condition. If both PTH and calcium levels are normal, then it is likely that the body's calcium regulation system is functioning properly. Low levels of PTH may be due to conditions causing hypercalcemia or to an abnormality in PTH production causing hypoparathyroidism.
Parathyroid Hormone. Guide. A parathyroid hormone (PTH) blood test measures the level of parathyroid hormone in the blood. This test is used to help identify hyperparathyroidism, to find the cause of abnormal calcium levels, or to check the status of chronic kidney disease. PTH controls calcium and phosphorus levels in the blood. 
It is not just the level in the blood that is important but the balance between calcium and PTH and the response of the parathyroid glands to changing levels of calcium. If both PTH and calcium levels are normal, then it is likely that the body's calcium regulation system is functioning properly. Low levels of PTH may be due to conditions causing hypercalcemia or to an abnormality in PTH production causing hypoparathyroidism.