The sympathetic nervous system causes both vasoconstriction & vasodilation. During fight or flight you need more O2/blood delivered to your skeletal muscles. The SNS causes vasodilation in skeletal muscles. The sympathetic nervous system stimulates responses to strong feeling/emotion (as well as having other jobs). So it will cause your heart to beat faster … and other fight or flight reactions in response to such things as terror, hate, lust and so-on.... 1 person found this useful.
Sympathetic nervous system stimulation causes vasoconstriction of most blood vessels, including many of those in the skin, the digestive tract, and the kidneys. This occurs as a result of activation of alpha-1 adrenergic receptors by norepinephrine released by post-ganglionic sympathetic neurons. 
Sympathetic innervation of the vessels will cause vasoconstriction via NE acting on alpha adrenergic receptors. Sympathetics, also, increase the contractility of the heart, and thus cardiac output. Parasympathetic innervation will cause vasodilation. So it depends on the blood vessels and circumstances as to whether it is receiving more sympathetic or parasympathetic tone. Sympathetics are not acting in mass over the whole body. There be vasodilation, which has nothing to do with sympathetic stimulation, to muscle groups that you would be using during the flight or fight response. Those muscles are active and require oxygen and other metabolic needs at that time.
Vasoconstriction is the narrowing of the blood vessels resulting from contraction of the muscular wall of the vessels, in particular the large arteries and small arterioles. The process is the opposite of vasodilation, the widening of blood vessels. For example, vasoconstriction is a hypothermic preventative in which the blood vessels constrict and blood must move at a higher pressure to actively prevent a hypoxic reaction. ATP is used as a form of energy to increase this pressure to heat the body.
Sympathetic innervation will cause vasoconstriction of vessels to GI organs and stuff you DON'T need during a sympathetic (fight or flight) response (in addition to increasing heart rate, etc.). Parasympathetic will cause vasodilation of these vessels, so lots of blood to GI organs during rest and digest. There be vasodilation, which has nothing to do with sympathetic stimulation, to muscle groups that you would be using during the flight or fight response. Those muscles are active and require oxygen and other metabolic needs at that time.
The blood vessels of skeletal muscles, in contrast, has beta 2 receptors which causes vasodilation. Hence sympathetic stimulation cause vasoconstriction of blood vessels of viscera and dilates the vessels of skeletal muscles redirecting blood flow to skeletal system, thus preparing for fight, flight, fright reaction. The heart rate also increases, forcing more blood to flow to muscles. Hope this helps :). But at the same time they cause vasoconstriction of arteries carrying blood to the digestive organs, kidneys, and all those other internal organs that are not necessary for short-term survival (which is what the sympathetic system is all about).
Vasodilation (or vasodilatation) refers to the widening of blood vessels. It results from relaxation of smooth muscle cells within the vessel walls, in particular in the large veins, large arteries, and smaller arterioles. 
Yep! The sympathetic nervous system causes both vasoconstriction & vasodilation. During fight or flight you need more O2/blood delivered to your skeletal muscles. The SNS causes vasodilation in skeletal muscles. The other organs, of the body (like digestive organs) are not needed for fight or flight survival. The sympathetic nervous system stimulates responses to strong feeling/emotion (as well as having other jobs). So it will cause your heart to beat faster … and other fight or flight reactions in response to such things as terror, hate, lust and so-on.... 1 person found this useful.
The answer is yes.. The sympathetic nervous system stimulates responses to strong feeling/emotion (as well as having other jobs). So it will cause your heart to beat faster … and other fight or flight reactions in response to such things as terror, hate, lust and so-on.... 1 person found this useful.