Space the links apart as evenly as possible. 3. Cook the sausages in the preheated oven. Place the baking sheet on the middle rack of the oven to ensure even cooking. Bake for 20 to 25 minutes. 1  Note that thicker sausages may need to bake longer. 2  Extremely large or thick links may need to be baked anywhere from 40 to 60 minutes. 3  If cooking them this long, however, you should turn the sausages at least once. 
1 Line a 10x15 jelly roll pan with parchment paper for cooking/baking. 2  Place one package of sausage links in the jelly roll pan flat on top of the parchment paper in a single layer. 3  When the oven comes up to temperature, place the pan with the sausage on the middle shelf of the oven and bake for 15 minutes. 1 Place one package of sausage links in the jelly roll pan flat on top of the parchment paper in a single layer. 2
Baking sausage is simple. 1  Remove the sausage from the refrigerator 10 – 15 minutes before cooking to remove the chill from the meat. 2  Preheat the oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius). 3  Layer the baking pan with aluminum foil or parchment paper. 4  Place the sausages evenly on the cooking sheet. 1 Remove the sausage from the refrigerator 10 – 15 minutes before cooking to remove the chill from the meat. 2  Preheat the oven to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius). 3  Layer the baking pan with aluminum foil or parchment paper.
Preheat broiler. Place links on broiler pan or foil-lined baking pan on center oven rack (7-9 in. from heat). Broil for 11-12 minutes or until sausage internal temperature reaches 160°F, turning links every 4 minutes. Skillet. Spray a skillet with cooking spray. Add sausage. Cook over medium-high heat until browned, about 5 minutes, turning links often. Reduce heat to medium-low. Carefully add ½ cup water to skillet. Cover and simmer for 12 minutes or until internal link temperature reaches 160°F.
1 Place the sausage with the vegetables in the pan and bake for about 40 minutes until the sausage is cooked and the vegetables are nice and soft. 2  Remove the sausage and slice them thinly. 3  Place the sausage back in the pan and give everything a good stir. 4  Place a good sized serving onto a sub roll and enjoy! 1 Place the pan in the oven and bake for about 30 minutes, turning once to brown evenly. 2  Remove the sausages form the oven and place on a platter to rest for about five minutes before serving piping hot and juicy.
How to Cook Sausages in the Oven. A pan of sliced sausage on a table. Photo Credit sanapadh/iStock/Getty Images. With close to 200 varieties of sausages worldwide and a history of 3,000 years, it’s clear that sausages have an unbeatable appeal. When it comes to sausages, many kinds of cooking result in a juicy, flavorful result. Saute onions, peppers and garlic in 2 tbsp. of olive oil while the sausages roast. Cook the vegetables on medium heat for 5 to 6 minutes until they are tender. Add salt, pepper, tomato sauce and 2 tbsp. water.
1 When the oven comes up to temperature, place the pan with the sausage on the middle shelf of the oven and bake for 15 minutes. 2  When the time goes off remove the sausage from the oven and rotate them to the other side. 1 Place one package of sausage links in the jelly roll pan flat on top of the parchment paper in a single layer. 2 
Steps: 1  Preheat your oven to 400 degrees. 2  Place the vegetables in a baking dish and coat with olive oil, stirring everything well. 3  Place the sausage with the vegetables in the pan and bake for about 40 minutes until the sausage is cooked and the vegetables are nice and soft. 4  Remove the sausage and slice them thinly. 1 Place the pan in the oven and bake for about 30 minutes, turning once to brown evenly. 2  Remove the sausages form the oven and place on a platter to rest for about five minutes before serving piping hot and juicy.
Foil. Rimmed Baking Sheet. Preheat the oven to 425 F. Line a baking sheet with foil and arrange the patties on the sheet so they are not touching each other (use a second sheet pan if needed). Bake the sausage for 10 minutes, then flip each patty and rotate the baking sheet back to front. Bake for 10 more minutes, then broil for 3-4 minutes until the sausage is browned to your preference. 