Lecithin is a fatty substance found in plants and produced naturally in your body. You can consume lecithin from both plant and animal sources and from lecithin supplements. Your body requires lecithin to function properly, and as such, lecithin serves several important functions that contribute to your overall health.
Lecithin is used in many foods as an emulsifying agent (emulsifiers help keep the fat from separating). The richest natural sources of lecithin are from foods which are also high in fat, such as eggs and beef liver, but other foods such as peanuts, beef steak and some fruits and vegetables are lesser sources.
Lecithin is good for you. How good? Each tablespoon (7.5 grams) of lecithin granules contains about 1700 mg of phosphatidyl choline, 1000 mg of phosphatidyl inositol, and about 2,200 mg of essential fatty acids as linoleic acid. It also contains the valuable fish-oil-like, omega-3 linolenic acid.
Lecithin, originally isolated by Theodore Nicolas Gobley from egg yolk, is a term now frequently used to describe any of a number of fatty substances with health benefits that occur naturally in a number of plants and animals.
Lecithin chemically is phosphatidylcholine, a phospholipid that is part of the cell structure in both animals as plants. Phospholipids are needed by every cell in the body and are key building blocks of cell membranes; without it, the cell membranes would harden.
Lecithin is a fat that is essential in the cells of the body. It can be found in many foods, including soybeans and egg yolks. Lecithin is taken as a medicine and is also used in the manufacturing of medicines. Lecithin is used for treating memory disorders such as dementia and Alzheimer ’s disease. It is also used for treating gallbladder disease, liver disease, certain types of depression, high cholesterol, anxiety, and a skin disease called eczema. Some people apply lecithin to the skin as a moisturizer.
Lecithin is a food additive that comes from several sources — one of them being soy. It is generally used as an emulsifier, or lubricant, when added to food, but also has uses as an antioxidant and flavor protector. Like many food additives, soy lecithin isn’t without controversy.