Integration of the viral DNA results in permanent insertion of the viral genome into the host chromosomal DNA, referred as a provirus in the case of retroviruses or prophage in the case of prokaryotic viruses. 
Endogenous retroviruses are always in the state of a provirus. When a (nonendogenous) retrovirus invades a cell, the RNA of the retrovirus is reverse-transcribed into DNA by reverse transcriptase, then inserted into the host genome by an integrase. Proviruses may account for approximately 8% of the human genome in the form of inherited endogenous retroviruses. A provirus not only refers to a retrovirus but is also used to describe other viruses that can integrate into the host chromosomes, another example being adeno-associated virus.
Integration of a DNA copy of the viral genome into a host cell chromosome is an essential step in the retroviral replication cycle (Varmus et al. 1989; Coffin et al. 1997). Once integrated, the proviral DNA is replicated along with cellular DNA during cycles of cell division, as with any cellular gene. Integration occurs precisely at the termini of the viral DNA but integration can take place at many locations in the host genome. Most positions in chromosomal DNA can serve as integration acceptor sites, but there are distinct regional preferences that differ among groups of retroviruses.
Cells have membranes that prevent DNA from simply diffusing in or out. This is the initial barrier that scientists must overcome in order to insert foreign DNA into a cell. The four ways of accomplishing this goal are transduction, transformation, transfection and injection. Transduction is the insertion of foreign DNA into a cell via a virus (See Reference 1 and 2). Viruses are made of a protein coat that houses DNA within. Viruses can bind to living cells and inject their DNA. Or, viruses can push into the host as a membrane-bound vesicle, before releasing their DNA inside the host. The use of recombinant DNA technology can insert foreign DNA into host cells that are then purposefully infected with viruses
Integration of Viral DNA. Once the viral RNA has been reverse-transcribed into a strand of DNA, the DNA can then be integrated (inserted) into the DNA of the lymphocyte. The virus has its own enzyme called integrase that facilitates incorporation of the viral DNA into the host cells DNA. 
Transduction is the process by which DNA is transferred from one bacterium to another by a virus. It also refers to the process whereby foreign DNA is introduced into another cell via a viral vector. The excised DNA is then packaged into a new virus particle, which then delivers the DNA to a new bacterium, where the donor genes can be inserted into the recipient chromosome or remain in the cytoplasm, depending on the nature of the bacteriophage.
A provirus is a virus genome that is integrated into the DNA of a host cell. In the case of bacterial viruses (bacteriophages), proviruses are often referred to as prophages. Proviruses may account for approximately 8% of the human genome in the form of inherited endogenous retroviruses. A provirus not only refers to a retrovirus but is also used to describe other viruses that can integrate into the host chromosomes, another example being adeno-associated virus.
Some bacterial viruses (bacteriophages) may undergo lysogeny following infection of host cells. In this case, the viral genome is integrated into host-cell chromosomes, forming a prophage that is replicated along with the host genome. When suitably activated, a prophage enters the lytic cycle (see Figure 6-19). This association is called lysogeny, and the integrated phage DNA is referred to as a prophage (Figure 6-19). Under certain conditions, the prophage DNA is activated, leading to its excision from the host-cell chromosome and entrance into the lytic cycle. Bacterial viruses of this type are called temperate phages.
More generally, transduction is the process by which genetic material, e.g. DNA or siRNA, is inserted into a cell by a virus. Common techniques in molecular biology are the use of viral vectors (including bacteriophages), electroporation, or chemical reagents that increase cell permeability. The excised DNA is then packaged into a new virus particle, which then delivers the DNA to a new bacterium, where the donor genes can be inserted into the recipient chromosome or remain in the cytoplasm, depending on the nature of the bacteriophage.