This is not the place to criticize the work of the Kerner Commission in detail, a task Abigail and I take up in our recent volume, America in Black and White. Suffice it to say that the report does not satisfactorily answer the elementary question of why the riots occurred when and where they did. There's no better place to start than by closely examining the so-called Kerner Commission -- its history, its recommended policies, and its recommended solutions -- and by honestly evaluating how these policies have fared, 30 years later.
Three themes emerge from the Kerner Commission Report, which our panelists today are uniquely qualified to address. The first is the condition of race relations and the condition of racial minorities in the United States. There's no better place to start than by closely examining the so-called Kerner Commission -- its history, its recommended policies, and its recommended solutions -- and by honestly evaluating how these policies have fared, 30 years later.
The Commission's final report, the Report of the National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorders or Kerner Report was released on February 29, 1968 after seven months of investigation. The report became an instant best-seller, and over two million Americans bought copies of the 426-page document. Because the commission took for granted that the riots were the fault of white racism, it would have been awkward to have had to confront the question of why liberal Detroit blew up while Birmingham and other Southern cities — where conditions for blacks were infinitely worse — did not.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Novanetwinner. Confidence votes 55. to investigate causes of civil disorder and recommend solutions. President Johnson ignored the report and rejected the findings of the Commission. Critics said that the report was badly flawed, and some of the worst rioting occurred in areas with the least racism, such as the Watts riots in Los Angeles.
Confidence votes 1.1K. The Kerner Commission was established by Lyndon Johnson on July 28, 1967. It was formed as the result of several riots starting in 1965, including the Watts and Division Street riots. The report was released on February 29, 1968. 
The Kerner Commission was established by Lyndon Johnson on July 28, 1967. It was formed as the result of several riots starting in 1965, including the Watts and Division Stree … t riots. The report was released on February 29, 1968. President Johnson ignored the report and rejected the findings of the Commission. Critics said that the report was badly flawed, and some of the worst rioting occurred in areas with the least racism, such as the Watts riots in Los Angeles.
In August 1967, President Lyndon B. Johnson created the Kerner Commission, which was named after its chairman, Illinois governor Otto Kerner. Eight months later, in March 1968, the commission submitted a 426-page report that, interestingly, became a best seller with over 2 million copies sold. There's no better place to start than by closely examining the so-called Kerner Commission -- its history, its recommended policies, and its recommended solutions -- and by honestly evaluating how these policies have fared, 30 years later.
Kerner Commission. Created to investigate the riots that broke out in the Watts section of Los Angeles, Chicago, Newark, and Detroit, which were all poverty-ridden and the inhabitants felt that the Civil Rights Movement was doing nothing.
According to the kerner Commission what was largely responsible for causing the tensions that led to the riots in Detroit and other cities in the mid-1960s'? President Johnson ignored the report and rejected the findings of the Commission. Critics said that the report was badly flawed, and some of the worst rioting occurred in areas with the least racism, such as the Watts riots in Los Angeles.
President Lyndon B. Johnson, who had already pushed through the Civil Rights Act and the Voting Rights Act, ignored the report and rejected the Kerner Commission's recommendations. Because the commission took for granted that the riots were the fault of white racism, it would have been awkward to have had to confront the question of why liberal Detroit blew up while Birmingham and other Southern cities — where conditions for blacks were infinitely worse — did not.