1 Since the JVP quit, the ruling coalition has been a minority government with just 80 seats in a parliament of 225. 2  At the moment, we have a minority government supported by another party on confidence and supply, but without an automatic majority on legislation. A government in which the governing party has most seats but still less than half the total. Example sentences. 1  Since the JVP quit, the ruling coalition has been a minority government with just 80 seats in a parliament of 225.
By Susan Munroe. Definition: In Canada, the party which wins the most seats in a general election forms the government. If the party wins more than half of the seats in the House of Commons or legislative assembly, then the party forms a majority government. 
A)a government that is formed when no single party has won a majority of seats. Meaning: In a multiparty system, the different parties might not be able to agree on a common platform to form a government, therefore one or more party might get support from another to form government. B)a government that was not elected directly by the people C)a government that includes a large representation of members from visible minority groups D)a government that is formed by a political party other than the Republicans or...
A minority government tends to be much less stable than a majority government because, if they can unite for the purpose, opposing parliamentary members have the numbers to vote against legislation, or even bring down the government with a vote of no confidence. Elections are then held as scheduled at the end of the parliamentary term, since the Monarch does not dissolve parliament if an informateur has been able to negotiate a new coalition agreement. The Netherlands had a minority government in 2010-2012: the First Rutte cabinet.
A minority government, or minority cabinet or minority parliament, is a cabinet formed in a parliamentary system when a political party or coalition of parties does not have a majority of overall seats in the parliament. Elections are then held as scheduled at the end of the parliamentary term, since the Monarch does not dissolve parliament if an informateur has been able to negotiate a new coalition agreement. The Netherlands had a minority government in 2010-2012: the First Rutte cabinet.
A)a government that is formed when no single party has won a majority of seats. B)a government that was not elected directly by the people C)a government that includes a large representation of members from visible minority groups D)a government that is formed by a political party other than the... B)a government that was not elected directly by the people C)a government that includes a large representation of members from visible minority groups D)a government that is formed by a political party other than the Republicans or...
More often, a minority government is formed when one of the cabinet's coalition partners withdraws its support, or when all ministers of a given parliamentary party resign. In these cases, the Prime Minister offers the full cabinet's resignation to the Dutch Monarch. Elections are then held as scheduled at the end of the parliamentary term, since the Monarch does not dissolve parliament if an informateur has been able to negotiate a new coalition agreement. The Netherlands had a minority government in 2010-2012: the First Rutte cabinet.
(plural minority governments). ( 1 politics) Government by a political party or a coalition that does not have a majority of seats / votes in parliament. 2  Link/Cite. 3  Home. 4  Dictionary Definitions. 5  minority-government. Words near minority-government in the dictionary. 1  minoritizing. 2  minority. 3  minority-cabinet. 4  minority-council. 5  minority-government. 6  minority-governments. 7  minority interest. 8  minority leader. 9  minority-leader. 10  minority-report.
By Susan Munroe. Definition: In Canada, the party which wins the most seats in a general election forms the government. If the party wins just half or fewer than half of the seats in the House of Commons or legislative assembly, then the party forms a minority government. A minority government has to negotiate with other parties and adjust policies to get enough votes from other parties to pass legislation. A minority government must constantly work to maintain the confidence of the House of Commons or legislative assembly to stay in power.