Spacing. For informal plantings we recommend 45cm-90cm (18in-36in) between plants, depending on their eventual size. Planting in groups of three is very effective. For hedging, lavenders to 60cm (24in) and rosemaries may be planted 40-45cm (15-18in) apart. For a formal lavender hedge use one type – the effect is stunning! Any of the angustifolia and x intermedia lavenders make a fine hedge as do all upright rosemaries. 
After your lavender has bloomed, harvest the flowers then cut the rest of the plant 3 inches above the wood. Wood is the brown stem below the growth. By year 2, your plant will double in size and will be fully mature by year 3. Each year, after harvesting flowers, trim 3 inches above the wood. The plant should be shaped into a mound by year 2. Make sure all stems are cut before winter.
Garden Spacing. As a general rule of thumb, plant lavender plants as far apart as they will be tall. For example, if your lavender variety will be three feet tall, you should plant them three feet apart. Lavender can be spaced closer together to create a wall or border; however, the plants will produce fewer flowers, as not all sides will be exposed to full sun. Even indoor lavender plants in pots must have full sun, such as a south-facing window. As a general rule of thumb, plant lavender plants as far apart as they will be tall. For example, if your lavender variety will be three feet tall, you should plant them three feet apart.
Step 3. Space lavender plants 2 feet apart in a row, unless planting large varieties which are spaced 3 feet apart. Leave 3 to 6 feet between each row of lavender plants. Water the plants immediately after planting. Lavender is a flowering shrub-like plant that is striking when planted in a border, as the background to a flower garden, or in naturalized areas of the landscaping. It has grayish-green leaves and most varieties sport long stems covered in small lavender or deep purple flowers.
Varieties-Melissa Lilac, grey hedge and in some cases old english-so vera (dutch lavender clone). Big plants, with large spreads, and tall flowers-these can be spaced out quite far apart if you are just leaving to grow. Melissa lilac has a potential spread of up to 75cm-however would not recommend letting the plants grow that big-annual trimming recommended, as they look good as well kept small bushes. These varieties all have potential to grow quite tall, so are larger plants in the long term-they all can be kept to a border edge size by hard trimming every autumn. Planting distance should be slightly further apart than compact varieties. It is worth cheacking spread on individual listings on the popular plants website. 3 per metre, or 1 every 16-18in would be ideal, but you could go further apart, although it would look sparce for the 1st year or so
Planting distance The next decision to make is how far apart you want to put these plants. Box balls Clipped balls of box, about 45cm (18in) in diameter and spaced six feet apart, add a formal note to the edge of a riotous, cottage flower border. They also look good where a path runs along the edge of a lawn. 