Monterey Jack (sometimes shortened simply to Jack cheese) is an American semihard cheese, customarily white, made using cow's milk. It is commonly sold by itself, or mixed with Colby to make a marbled cheese known as Colby-Jack (or Co-Jack) . Cheddar-Jack and Pepper Jack varieties are also available. In its earliest form, Monterey Jack was made by the Mexican Franciscan friars of Monterey, California, during the 19th century. An aged version of this cheese, known as Dry Jack, can be grated and used much like Parmesan cheese. Dry Jack was originally created by accident in 1915 when a San Francisco cheese wholesaler stored and forgot a number of wheels of fresh Jack cheese.
You won't believe these 10 facts about people. Jack cheese is an American cheese that is often referred to as Monterey Jack. Featuring a creamy texture and a mild flavor that is sometimes accentuated with herbs, this cheese is a versatile option for many different types of dishes. First developed in the city of Monterey, California, jack cheese is available in several varieties. Some types of this cheese are aged, while others are not. Sliced Pepper Jack cheese. A block of Monterey Jack cheese. Jack cheese is a great topping for burgers at a cookout. Creamy Monterey Jack can be substituted for other cheeses in canapes and appetizers.
Monterey Jack. Monterey Jack earns the rightful position as a true “American” cheese since it originated in the Mexican Franciscan friars of Monterey, California. The cheese came to be known as “Monterey Jack's” or “Jack's Monterey,” eventually acquiring the name Monterey Jack. The cheese is commonly used in Mexican and Spanish cuisine as its mild in flavour and melts really well.
Jack cheese, also referred to as Monterey Jack, is a popular American cheese that has a mild flavor and is quite creamy in texture. It is an extremely versatile cheese that can be used to make a large variety of dishes. Jack cheese is often used interchangeably with Cheddar, but Jack tends to be sweeter, milder and more creamy. Cheddar’s distinctive sharp flavor comes from its sometimes lengthy aging process.
The cheese got its name from David Jack and is also known as Monterey Jack, as initially the production of this cheese was limited to Monterey County. The pleasantly mild taste of Jack cheese makes it popular for blending, and you can find it in a variety of blends including Salsa Jack, Colby Jack and Pepper Jack. Jack cheese is often used interchangeably with Cheddar, but Jack tends to be sweeter, milder and more creamy. Cheddar’s distinctive sharp flavor comes from its sometimes lengthy aging process.
It's akin in taste and texture to Colby and Cheddar. Variants of Monterey Jack known as Dry Jack (aged version) and Pepper Jack (pepper spiced) are also quite popular. Monterey Jack is available across all grocery stores and supermarkets in the United States. Consider Pinot Noir and Riesling with Jack cheese. The cheese came to be known as “Monterey Jack's” or “Jack's Monterey,” eventually acquiring the name Monterey Jack. The cheese is commonly used in Mexican and Spanish cuisine as its mild in flavour and melts really well.
Great in Chef’s salad. Mild Monterey Jack meets rich, tangy Cheddar and then gets shredded finely enough to deliver flavor to your salads and maximum melt to your Mexican inspired dishes. Off The Block.
Derby is similar to both Cheddar and Cheshire, but softer in texture and more delicate in flavor. Derby is a dense, off white cow's milk cheese with a soft, flaky interior and buttery flavor. English Cheddar is made in blocks from pasteurized cow's milk. The best English Cheddar is matured for a minimum of nine months. 
A semisoft cheese with a buttery-ivory color and a mild flavor similar to American muenster. Named after its creator, David Jacks, a cheesemaker near Monterey, California. Jack cheese is made from pasteurized whole, partly skimmed or skimmed cow's milk. Unaged jack is ripened for a week, has high moisture and good melting properties making it good for sandwiches and cooked dishes.