This is a list of breakfast foods. Breakfast is the first meal taken after rising from a night's sleep, most often eaten in the early morning before undertaking the day's work. 1 List of breakfast foods low in glycemic index; foods help you avoid blood sugar spikes .
Breakfast in Iran generally consists of different kinds of breads, cheese, butter, traditional marmalade, fruit preserves, jam, honey, clotted cream and hot tea as breakfast. Frequently breakfast can be as simple as feta cheese and jam on lavash. They often prefer to drink their hot black tea with sugar. In ethnically Fijian villages, breakfast often centers on tea served with milk and sugar, and food made out of flour: tovoi or babakau (a type of fried dough), pancakes, bread or biscuits with butter. Sometimes a starch, such as cassava, taro in coconut milk, or rice, is served instead.
Other types of breakfast include milk cereals. The most common drinks are orange juice or other fruits, milk, atol (a milk pudding with chocolate) and corn starch. The coffee is normally served with sweet bread also called pan de manteca (or butter bread). In ethnically Fijian villages, breakfast often centers on tea served with milk and sugar, and food made out of flour: tovoi or babakau (a type of fried dough), pancakes, bread or biscuits with butter. Sometimes a starch, such as cassava, taro in coconut milk, or rice, is served instead.
Report Abuse. There are so many different types of breakfasts. It could depend on which country you live in and what nationality you are. I live in Ontario, Canada, so our breakfasts consist of eggs, bacon, homefries & toast. We don't eat grits which Americans would eat for breakfast. 
Unfortunately in today’s busy world no one gives importance to the most important meal of the day. Here we have more than 120 easy breakfast recipes that can be put together on any busy morning or even can be had as a quick dinner. There are plenty of tiffin varieties to suit to different taste buds. The breakfast recipes are categorized and segregated into multiple lists. Clicking See More... 
Breakfast foods vary widely from place to place, but often include a carbohydrate such as grains or cereals, fruit, vegetables, a protein food such as eggs, meat or fish, and a beverage such as tea, coffee, milk, or fruit juice. In ethnically Fijian villages, breakfast often centers on tea served with milk and sugar, and food made out of flour: tovoi or babakau (a type of fried dough), pancakes, bread or biscuits with butter. Sometimes a starch, such as cassava, taro in coconut milk, or rice, is served instead.
A sandwich is bread with some type of filling. Use breakfast-type ingredients for the filling and you have a classic meal with a twist. Think about using different types of bread to hold the filling. Raisin bread is delicious, as is pita bread. Focaccia can make an excellent sandwich. And English muffins are a classic sandwich maker.
Explore nearly 3,000 breakfast recipes. Browse by food item or explore different breakfast themes. The most choices for the most important meal of the day. Be sure to read the comments from those who tried the recipes and consider leaving a comment of your own. The ideal breakfast is rich in whole grains, low in fat and sugar and contains some protein and at least a partial serving of fruits and/or vegetables.
Among English speakers, breakfast can be used to refer to this meal or to refer to a meal composed of traditional breakfast foods (such as eggs, oatmeal and sausage) served at any time of day. 1 List of breakfast foods low in glycemic index; foods help you avoid blood sugar spikes .