Kolam by Sudha Balaji. Rangoli-sans-dots-It is a big collection of small kolam / rangoli designs hand drawn, few art and craft. Kolam designs include some simple, easy patterns with dots and without for beginners and kids with steps. It also has colourful free hand rangoli designs for festivals viz. To explain it further if one draws a ner pulli kolam with a 15 to 1 dot pattern it means that the central row of dots is 15 and the last row has one dot-odd number of dots are placed in descending order i.e 13,11, 9, 7,5,3 and 1 and a convenient distance (1 cm approx) on either side of the central row of 15 dots.
Kolam is the name given to the art of Rangoli in southern parts of the country, mainly the states of Kerala and Tamil Nadu. The Hindus residing in these parts make use of this art form on a large scale. In a South-Indian home, it is believed Kolam design bestows prosperity and success. Though the design is generally drawn with the help of dry rice flour, diluted rice paste is also made use of, especially when one intends to signify longevity.
Top 10 Latest Kolam Designs. Kolam is a form of rangoli that is widely done in India. The main concept of Kolam comes from the age old art of creating designs using rice flour which was done using bare hands. The art requires the making of geometric designs using a grid of predefined dots. 
A Rangoli with mixed colors at Tirunelveli, Tamil Nadu. Rangoli, also known as Kolam or Muggu, is a folk art from India in which patterns are created on the floor in living rooms or courtyards using materials such as colored rice, dry flour, colored sand or flower petals. 
Kolam. Indians love colours and its natural to show the love for colors in many ways. Indian rangoli is an unique art work which is practiced throughout India. All houses are adorned with these beautiful kolam, kolam designs, rangoli kolams during special occasions like festivals, marriage etc. There are many rangoli or kolam patterns which are used to make colourful designs on the floor.
Kolam (Tamil -கோலம்) is a form of drawing that is drawn by using rice flour/chalk/chalk powder/white rock powder often using naturally/synthetically colored powders in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradhesh,Kerala and some parts of Goa, Maharashtra, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and a few other Asian countries. A Kolam is a geometrical line drawing composed of curved loops, drawn around a grid pattern of dots. In South India, it is widely practised by female Hindu family members in front of their hous
Kolam is the form of Rangoli art seen in Tamil Nadu & Kerala. Know more about Indian Kolam designs & patterns. In a South-Indian home, it is believed Kolam design bestows prosperity and success. Though the design is generally drawn with the help of dry rice flour, diluted rice paste is also made use of, especially when one intends to signify longevity.
Kolam is a form of design or pattern drawn with rice flour on the floor with bare fingers using predetermined dots. The dots are either connected together to make a pattern or loops are drawn encircling the dots to complete a motif. A kolam looks more or less like a sand painting on the floor. 