The configuration file. The configuration file (. ) is read when PHP starts up. For the server module versions of PHP, this happens only once when the web server is started. For the. and. versions, it happens on every invocation. 
Notes about the INI file extension: The INI file type is primarily associated with 'Initialization/Configuration File'. These files are typically ASCII text with various configuration options set into sections. 
The name INI file comes from the commonly used filename extension, .INI, which stands for initialization. Other common initialization file extensions are .CFG, .conf, and .TXT, especially 'config.txt' occurrences. Linux and Unix systems also use a similar file format for system configuration. The INI file format is an informal standard for configuration files for some platforms or software. INI files are simple text files with a basic structure composed of sections, properties, and values
The most common type of file with ini file extension. Files with ini extension can be mainly found as configuration files from many applications written for Microsoft Windows, or even the operating system itself. File type specification: Configuration file type. ini file icon: The ini file extension is primarily used for configuration files in many Windows applications. A .ini file contains set of parameters for the program to be used when its started. Probably short for initialize.
To do so, the Application Manager requires an initialization (.ini) file as input that describes the .cab file and the application to be installed. Application Manager .ini File Format. 
Initialization file (Generic). INI is a file extension for an initialization file format, as the name implies, used by Microsoft Windows. INI files are plain text (ASCII) and are used to set parameters for the o perating system and some programs. In Windows, two common INI files are SYSTEM.INI and WIN.INI. 
How To Open an INI File. The easiest way to open an INI file is to double-click on it and let your PC decide which default application should open the file. If no program opens the INI file then you probably don't have an application installed that can view and/or edit INI files. 
Software that will open or convert INI2 files. Unfortunately we have not received enough suggestions for software that can open INI2 files yet. However, I would suggest that you try a free universal file viewer like Free File Viewer. 