Helvetica is a tried and true typeface. It’s a testament to Swiss design culture, with its clarity, flexibility and outright perfection. This famous typeface is loved for countless reasons, including its ability to take on any feeling, emotion or imagery, which it can do simply because it has no personality of its own. Helvetica deserves our utmost respect, but there’s a problem with Helvetica that needs calling out: too many designers are permanently stuck on it, and that’s a disservice to every other sans-serif typeface out there.
There have been questions about free alternatives to Helvetica and also similar fonts to Helvetica Neue, but the answers were based on available fonts from at least a couple years ago and I would like to know if there have been changes or new fonts since. Helvetica's closest cousins would include: 1  Helvetica Neue. 2  Nimbus Sans. 3  Akzidenz-Grotesk (this one is maybe more of an uncle).
It's the eternal question for graphic designers the world over: 'Something like Helvetica, but not Helvetica'. Of course, the giant of Swiss typography – which started life as Neue Haas Grotesk, designed by Max Miedinger and Eduard Hoffmann in 1957 – is ubiquitous for a reason. It's clean, bold, legible – and safe
Helvetica. Developed at the Haas typefoundry in Muenchenstein, Münchenstein, switzerland to compete with the-sans serif Typeface Akzidenz, grotesk it has succeeded in becoming the most popular typeface in the. world FF Bau. Developed at the Haas typefoundry in Muenchenstein, Münchenstein, switzerland to compete with the-sans serif Typeface Akzidenz, grotesk it has succeeded in becoming the most popular typeface in the. world
Neue Helvetica uses a numerical design classification scheme, like Univers. The font family is made up of 51 fonts including 9 weights in 3 widths (8, 9, 8 in normal, condensed, extended widths respectively), and an outline font based on Helvetica 75 Bold Outline (no Textbook or rounded fonts are available). Linotype distributes Neue Helvetica on CD.
Helvetica, love it or hate it Helvetica is one of the world's most used typefaces. It’s certainly a typeface that everyone has an opinion or a quote about. 'Helvetica' is one of the most popular font related search terms entered on Microsoft.com, and this news entry should help our users locate the font. 
Helvetica is a widely used sans-serif typeface developed in 1957 by Swiss typeface designer Max Miedinger with input from Eduard Hoffmann. It is a neo-grotesque or realist design, one influenced by the famous 19th century typeface Akzidenz-Grotesk and other German and Swiss designs. The font family is made up of 51 fonts including 9 weights in 3 widths (8, 9, 8 in normal, condensed, extended widths respectively), and an outline font based on Helvetica 75 Bold Outline (no Textbook or rounded fonts are available). Linotype distributes Neue Helvetica on CD.
Neue Haas Grotesk is the most recent digitisation of Helvetica's precursor created by type designer Christian Schwartz. This project, which he referred to as a restoration, was completed in 2010 and published by Font Bureau. It was promoted with an article on the history of Helvetica by Indra Kupferschmid. The font family is made up of 51 fonts including 9 weights in 3 widths (8, 9, 8 in normal, condensed, extended widths respectively), and an outline font based on Helvetica 75 Bold Outline (no Textbook or rounded fonts are available). Linotype distributes Neue Helvetica on CD.
Background. Helvetica was developed in 1957 by Max Miedinger with Eduard Hoffmann at the Haas’sche Schriftgiesserei (Haas type foundry) of Muenchenstein, Münchenstein. Switzerland haas set out to design a new-sans serif typeface that could compete With-Akzidenz grotesk in The swiss. market 