Cygnus contains Deneb, one of the brightest stars in the night sky and one corner of the Summer Triangle, as well as some notable X-ray sources and the giant stellar association of Cygnus OB2. One of the stars of this association, NML Cygni, is one of the largest stars currently known. The constellation is also home to Cygnus X-1, a distant X-ray binary containing a supergiant and unseen massive companion that was the first object widely held to be a black hole. Alpha Cygni, called Deneb, is the brightest star in Cygnus. It is a white supergiant star of spectral type A2Iae that varies between magnitudes 1.21 and 1.29, one of the largest and most luminous A-class stars known. It is located about 3200 light-years away.
MYTH. Cygnus constellation is associated with several myths, most frequently the one of the Spartan Queen Leda, who gave birth to two sets of twins, the immortal Pollux and Helen and mortal Castor and Clytemnestra, after being seduced by the god Zeus, who had transformed himself into a swan. Of the above three, the myth of Phaeton is the one that is most frequently associated with Cygnus constellation. In the story, Phaeton and Cycnus were racing each other across the sky when they came too close to the Sun.
A very large constellation, Cygnus is bordered by Cepheus to the north and east, Draco to the north and west, Lyra to the west, Vulpecula to the south, Pegasus to the southeast and Lacerta to the east. The three-letter abbreviation for the constellation, as adopted by the IAU in 1922, is 'Cyg'. Alpha Cygni, called Deneb, is the brightest star in Cygnus. It is a white supergiant star of spectral type A2Iae that varies between magnitudes 1.21 and 1.29, one of the largest and most luminous A-class stars known. It is located about 3200 light-years away.
Cygnus, the Swan. The brightest stars of Cygnus form a cross, so the swan is also known as the Northern Cross. Find it soaring high overhead during late summer evenings. The constellation's brightest star is Deneb — an Arabic word that means the tail.. Deneb represents the tail of the swan but the top of the cross. The swan's outstretched wings form the horizontal bar of the cross, while the head of the swan, a double star called Albireo, is at the bottom of the cross.
Nothing but the Facts About the Constellation Cygnus. written by: Anurag Ghosh•edited by: Jason C. Chavis•updated: 11/12/2010. Constellation Cygnus is one of the 88 modern constellations recognizable in the northern summer and autumn. It is identified as a swan or some kind of a stellar bird, in most mythologies. Here are some facts about Cygnus constellation.
Cygnus, the Swan, is also known as the Northern Cross because of its shape. The tail of the swan is marked by the bright star Deneb, Arabic for tail. Three fainter stars cross the line between Deneb and the head of the swan, Albireo. Cygnus flies southward along the summer Milky Way, and into the Summer Triangle. 
The whooper swan (pronounced hooper), Cygnus cygnus, is a large Northern Hemisphere swan. It is the Eurasian counterpart of the North American trumpeter swan. Francis Willughby and John Ray 's Ornithology of 1676 referred to the this swan as the Elk, Hooper, or wild Swan. 
Cygnus is a constellation in the northern sky. Its name means “the swan” in Latin, and it is most frequently associated with the myth of Zeus and Leda. Of the above three, the myth of Phaeton is the one that is most frequently associated with Cygnus constellation. In the story, Phaeton and Cycnus were racing each other across the sky when they came too close to the Sun.
Cygnus is one if the most familiar constellations in the northern hemisphere. Its name derives from the Greek word for swan.. The constellation was originally listed by the Greek astronomer Ptolemy in the 2nd century. It is shown as a long-necked bird with its wings spread wide. Cygnus contains a prominent asterism, the Northern Cross, formed by the brightest stars in the constellation. (The Southern Cross is in the constellation Crux .). The brightest star in Cygnus is [3967] alpha Cygni or Deneb (the tail), which is also the 19th brightest star in the sky.