A registered dietitian is someone who has studied nutrition in a college program approved by the American Dietetic Association, completed 900 hours of supervised practical experience accredited by the Commission of the Accreditation for Dietetics Education, and passed an exam. Before you can even apply to become state certified you must complete a bachelors degree program in nutrition (or whatever it is your school calls it: dietary nutrition, nutritionist, dietitian etc.) at a school accredited by the American Dietetic Association (ADA) or the OBD (Ohio Board of Dietetics).
A bachelor's degree is the minimum amount of education necessary for a career as a dietician. Graduate degrees are also available and recommended for higher-level positions. Suitable majors you'll want to pursue include food service systems management, dietetics, and food nutrition. If you're more interested in working with the community, then you can become a community dietician. In this role, you'd work for health maintenance businesses or in public health clinics to help educate citizens on healthy eating habits and how to prevent food-related illnesses and diseases.
In becoming a registered dietitian, a Bachelor’s degree in Nutrition, Dietetics, or food science is required. Typically, Bachelor’s degrees require four years to complete. For a registered dietitian, the degree programs do require an internship. The education course is followed by the American Dietetic Association’s national registration exam. Before you can even apply to become state certified you must complete a bachelors degree program in nutrition (or whatever it is your school calls it: dietary nutrition, nutritionist, dietitian etc.) at a school accredited by the American Dietetic Association (ADA) or the OBD (Ohio Board of Dietetics).
A registered dietitian requires a bachelors degree, and course work must be in accordance with the Commission on Accreditation for Dietetics Education. Additionally, a completed program of practice is required at an institute that is approved by the Commission on Accreditation for Dietetics Education. Before you can even apply to become state certified you must complete a bachelors degree program in nutrition (or whatever it is your school calls it: dietary nutrition, nutritionist, dietitian etc.) at a school accredited by the American Dietetic Association (ADA) or the OBD (Ohio Board of Dietetics).
Students cannot typically finish a dietetics bachelor’s degree entirely online. They usually need to complete a supervised practicum experience – which is often necessary to become a licensed dietitian – in addition to completing other offline components. 
To become a registered dietitian, you need to do 3 things: 1  Take the specific set of courses outlined by the Academy of Nutrition & Dietetics (AND). 2  Complete the required internships, also outlined by AND. 3  Take the RD exam (and pass it!). To become a registered dietitian, you need to do 3 things: 1  Take the specific set of courses outlined by the Academy of Nutrition & Dietetics (AND). 2  This can be completed at the undergraduate OR graduate level.
Education. Most dietitians and nutritionists have a bachelor’s degree in dietetics, foods and nutrition, food service systems management, clinical nutrition, or a related area. Programs include courses in nutrition, psychology, chemistry, and biology. Many dietitians and nutritionists also have advanced degrees. 
The minimum requirement for a career in dietetics is a bachelor's degree; however, some dietitians hold graduate degrees. There were 279 bachelor's and 18 master's degree programs approved by the Dietetic Association's (ADA) Commission on Accreditation for Dietetics Education (CADE) in 2009 (www.eatright.org). Dietitians must hold at least a bachelor's degree in dietetics, nutrition or another health science field. Some colleges and universities offer Bachelor of Science in Dietetics programs comprised of didactic curricula approved by the ADA.
~ ~ ~. First things first. To become a registered dietitian, you need to do 3 things: 1  Take the specific set of courses outlined by the Academy of Nutrition & Dietetics (AND). 2  This can be completed at the undergraduate OR graduate level. 3  Complete the required internships, also outlined by AND