Alternate Names. Carboxymethylcellulose, Cellulose Gum, Sodium Salt, sodium carboxymethyl cellulose, CMC. Description. Carboxymethyl Cellulose is a thickener, binder and stabilizer in a variety of foods (see Found In). It is considered a fiber source and as such is used in over-the-counter laxatives. Cellulose is the carbohydrate that makes up the woody parts and cell walls of plants
According to the different purity, Sodium carboxymethyl cellulose is in the appearance of white or yellowish powder and soluble in cold and hot water. Sodium carboxymethyl cellulose is divided into a variety of models depending on the degree of substitution, solution viscosity and the purity. Sodium carboxymethyl cellulose is generally divided into 3 grades depending on the purity: the food high-purity grade (with a content more than 99.5%), the industrial grade (with a content more than 90%), and crude products (with a content more than 65%).
Use as a Thickener. Sodium carboxymethyl is added to some products as a thickener and as a dispersant. By controlling the amount of sodium carboxymethyl added, the manufacturer can fine-tune the feel of the food or medicine in the mouth and as it is swallowed. It is odorless and tasteless. Sodium carboxymethyl cellulose dissolves readily in water. It is hygroscopic, meaning it takes up and holds onto moisture. Its hygroscopic properties are partially responsible for its success as a food and drug additive.
Sodium carboxymethyl cellulose is mainly used as a thickener in toothpaste, enables the toothpaste to have a certain consistency, the paste into stripes, with a good frame, not collapsing when attached to the toothpaste, not getting dilute, so that the paste is smooth and delicate. 1. Sodium carboxymethyl cellulose is generally divided into 3 grades depending on the purity: the food high-purity grade (with a content more than 99.5%), the industrial grade (with a content more than 90%), and crude products (with a content more than 65%).
Summary. Uses of Carboxymethyl Cellulose Sodium carboxymethyl cellulose may be used in solid dietary supplements, such as sweetener tablets, as a disintegrant. Carboxymethyl cellulose is not readily absorbed in humans or animals because the molecules are too large. Carboxymethyl cellulose is also used in laundry detergents, shampoos, and many other common household products. It is commonly used in eye drops as well to relieve dry eye.
Carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) or cellulose gum is a cellulose derivative with carboxymethyl groups (-CH 2 -COOH) bound to some of the hydroxyl groups of the glucopyranose monomers that make up the cellulose backbone. 
Details. Carboxymethyl cellulose aka CMC is actually the sodium salt of carboxymethyl cellulose. It is derived from cellulose, which is made water-soluble by a chemical reaction. 
Sodium carboxymethyl cellulose is sometimes used to make reusable ice packs. When combined with water and other substances such as propylene glycol, sodium carboxymethyl forms a eutectic mixture--a mixture whose freezing point is lower than that of any of the mixture constituents. It is odorless and tasteless. Sodium carboxymethyl cellulose dissolves readily in water. It is hygroscopic, meaning it takes up and holds onto moisture. Its hygroscopic properties are partially responsible for its success as a food and drug additive.
2. Sodium carboxymethyl cellulose is also the modifier in the flotation process, mainly used for silicate gangue inhibitors for the inhibition of lead in the separation of copper and lead, and sometimes used as the dispersing agent of mineral mud. Sodium carboxymethyl cellulose is generally divided into 3 grades depending on the purity: the food high-purity grade (with a content more than 99.5%), the industrial grade (with a content more than 90%), and crude products (with a content more than 65%).
Sodium carboxymethyl cellulose (CMC) is a cellulose derivative, an ionic cellulose gum, and owing to its unique thickening, suspending, adhesion, and water retention properties, is widely used in various industrial fields. Sodium carboxymethyl cellulose is generally divided into 3 grades depending on the purity: the food high-purity grade (with a content more than 99.5%), the industrial grade (with a content more than 90%), and crude products (with a content more than 65%).