On the Summary screen, scroll down to the Options area, click the checkbox next to “Sync with this iPhone over Wi-Fi” and click the Apply button. You can now sync content like music and video from iTunes to your phone without having to link the two devices with the USB cable. The iPhone's icon remains visible in the iTunes window, even when it is not physically connected to the computer, so you can transfer files as you normally do with iTunes. In order to sync over Wi-Fi, you do need to have iTunes open on the computer, have the iPhone plugged into a power source and have both the phone and computer connected to the same wireless network.
The first step of setting up a wireless sync is to connect your iPhone to your computer and open iTunes. Once iTunes has launched, click on your iPhone. In iTunes, click on the Summary tab and under the options section, tick the box next to ‘Sync with this phone over Wi-Fi’. Now click Apply in the iTunes window. Read: How to create playlists on your iPhone or iPad.
Connect your iPod touch, iPhone, or iPad to your computer and select your device. Click Summary. Select “Sync with this device over Wi-Fi.”. Disconnect your device from your computer. Your device still appears in the Devices pop-up menu in iTunes unless you click the Eject button. If you’re on a Wi-Fi network, and have iOS 5 (or later) installed on your iPod touch, iPhone, or iPad, you can sync your device without connecting it to your computer. When you sync over Wi-Fi, your device uses the same sync settings you chose for syncing over a cable.
3. Connect your iPod to the Dock Connector on the USB cable. Be sure you are using the Apple Dock Connector to USB port cable that came with your iPhone. 1  If your computer has USB ports on the front and back, connect to a port on the back of the computer. 2  If iTunes does not recognize your iPhone when you connect it, try closing and re-opening iTunes. Open up iTunes on your computer. Do so before connecting your iPhone in order to avoid recognition problems. 2. Plug the USB cable into a port that is built into the computer. Make sure that you are not accidentally using a USB port that is not part of the computer such as a keyboard USB port or an external USB hub.
When the iPhone icon appears in the iTunes Devices list, click it, and then click the Summary tab at the top of the iTunes window. On the Summary screen, scroll down to the Options area, click the checkbox next to “Sync with this iPhone over Wi-Fi” and click the Apply button. You can now sync content like music and video from iTunes to your phone without having to link the two devices with the USB cable. The iPhone’s icon remains visible in the iTunes window, even when it is not physically connected to the computer, so you can transfer files as you normally do with iTunes.
Another synchronization that requires your iPhone to be connected to iTunes via USB is the syncing of your device settings, contacts and calendar data. Syncing your phone periodically to back up this data is important, as it protects your device from data loss in the event that your phone becomes lost, stolen or broken. When a new update is available, you will need to connect your iPhone to your computer with the USB cord to install the update. As of the date of publication, software updates were not available via Wi-Fi or 3G.
Wi-Fi Sync for iPhone. Go to WiFiSync.com to download the software. Wi-Fi Sync works in conjunction with iTunes and lets you sync your music library with the touch of a single button. Install the software on your computer. You will need to have a jailbroken iPhone to get the companion app. Open the Cydia app, search for Wi-Fi Sync and install it. The iPhone app costs $9.99, which you must purchase through the Cydia store.
1 Connect the iPhone, iPod touch, or iPad to the computer using the USB cable – this is the only time you’ll need to use the cable to get this feature working. 2  Launch iTunes and select the iOS device, then under the “Summary” screen scroll down to find “Options”. 1 Launch iTunes and select the iOS device, then under the “Summary” screen scroll down to find “Options”. 2  Check the box next to “Sync with this iPhone over Wi-Fi”, this will be labeled slightly differently if the device is an iPod or iPad. 3  Now select “Apply” to enable wireless syncing on that device.
Get PwnTunes at PwnTunes.net if you would like to sync your jailbroken iPhone without using iTunes. The software lets you sync with or without a cable. As of August 2011, the computer program costs $12.99 while you can download the iPhone companion app for free in the Cydia store. Install the software on your computer. You will need to have a jailbroken iPhone to get the companion app. Open the Cydia app, search for Wi-Fi Sync and install it. The iPhone app costs $9.99, which you must purchase through
In iTunes, click the Devices button to choose your device, and click the Sync button. If you sync the device manually, click Add To, drag items to the pane on the right, and click Done. You can use your device while it’s syncing over Wi-Fi. If you’re on a Wi-Fi network, and have iOS 5 (or later) installed on your iPod touch, iPhone, or iPad, you can sync your device without connecting it to your computer. When you sync over Wi-Fi, your device uses the same sync settings you chose for syncing over a cable.