http://www.authentichealthcoach.com. Learn how to find and identify wild leeks, also known as ramps. Chefs love 'em and so do I. Ramps are great sauted just like onions or leeks in pasta dishes or other savory dishes. Ramps do smell quite strong so when you harvest a lot of them, expect to have that strong odor in your car on the drive home!
Ramps (Allium tricoccum), or wild leeks, occur at higher elevations in Eastern North America from Georgia to Canada. Their sharp flavor is characteristic of a combination of garlic and onion. Ramps are easily recognized by their 1 or 2 broad leaves measuring 1 to 2 1/2 inches wide and 4 to 12 inches long. Foraging ramps has long been a popular activity throughout their range. Both the leaves and the bulbs of ramps can be eaten and both are delicious. They are best used fresh, but can also be prepared for long term storage. We've found the best way to store the bulbs is by freezing.
Leaves: Leaves appear well before the flowers. Wild Leeks are among the first plants to come up in the spring. Stem: Flower stem smooth, without leaves. Habitat: Forests. Longevity: Annual. Comments: Wild Leeks are onion-like plants that grow in the deep woods. They come up in the spring, usually before much of anything else has come up. The leaves and bulbs are edible. Please only collect when abundant, and then only collect scattered patches or individual plan
Allium tricoccum (commonly known as ramp, ramps, spring onion, ramson, wild leek, wood leek, and wild garlic) is a North American species of wild onion widespread across eastern Canada and the eastern United States. Allium tricoccum is a bulb-forming perennial with broad, smooth, light green leaves, often with deep purple or burgundy tints on the lower stems, and a scallion-like stalk and bulb.
Ramps (Alliium tricoccum) or wild leeks are the stinky springtime treasure of the Appalachian region–the white parts can be used in cooking similar to a strong onion or garlic, and the leafy greens are just as edible. 
Ramps (Allium tricoccum) are an easy item for many foragers to start with. In the spring, areas of wet forest are blanketed with the green leaves that grow mostly in pairs. The leaves are lanceolate, 8-12 inches long, flat and wide. The leaves are smooth and have almost a rubbery feel, and lack veins. 4-12 inches (10-30 cm) long, 1-3 inches (2.5-8 cm) wide, waxy, edible, and the lower stem is colored purplish-maroon or white. At the end of spring the leaves die back and a 8-12 inch long, smooth flower stem will appear with six-petalled white flowers arranged in an umbrella.
Save. Ramps (or wild leeks as they are sometimes called) can be found in forested areas across most of the United States and southern Canada and are a traditional North American wild food. Finding wild ramps is easy once the foragers knows what the leaves look like. The entire ramp plant is edible. The leaves produce a more mild onion/garlic flavor than the bulb. A traditional dish is cubed potatoes fried with bacon fat and wild ramps. Ramps can also be used anywhere onions and garlic are but in moderation--they are significantly stronger than their cultivated counterparts.
Wild Leeks-April's Wild Food of the Month! The Wild Leek, also known as the Ramp, or common Wild Leek (Allium tricoccum) is our best wild onion and a source of food and spiciness all year round. Broad, smooth, light green leaves, often with deep purple or burgundy tints on the lower stems begin arriving in small troops as soon as the snow disappears.
The wild leek (ramp) is a perennial herb that grows from an oblong shaped, white, edible bulb. In early spring, two-three basal leaves with parallel veins grow from the bulb. The leaves are. 4-12 inches (10-30 cm) long, 1-3 inches (2.5-8 cm) wide, waxy, edible, and the lower stem is colored purplish-maroon or white. At the end of spring the leaves die back and a 8-12 inch long, smooth flower stem will appear with six-petalled white flowers arranged in an umbrella.