recitative. recitative (rĕsˌĭtətēvˈ) [ key ], musical declamation for solo voice, used in opera and oratorio for dialogue and for narration. Its development at the close of the 16th cent. made possible the rise of opera. Le Nozze di Figaro by Mozart employs much recitative of this sort. It was used also in cantata and oratorio. In the 18th cent. greater importance was assumed by the recitativo accompagnato or stromentato, accompanied by the string section or the full orchestra, in which the music was more strictly measured.
recitative. (rĕs'ĭtətēv`) , musical declamation for solo voice, used in opera and oratorio for dialogue and for narration. Its development at the close of the 16th cent. made possible the rise of opera. 
An oratorio (. [oraˈtɔːrjo]) is a large musical composition for orchestra, choir, and soloists. Like an opera, an oratorio includes the use of a choir, soloists, an ensemble, various distinguishable characters, and arias. However, opera is musical theatre, while oratorio is strictly a concert piece—though oratorios are sometimes staged as operas, and operas are sometimes presented in concert form. A particularly important difference is in the typical subject matter of the text. Opera tends to deal with history and mythology, including age-old devices of romance, deception, and murder, whereas the plot of an oratorio often deals with sacred topics, making it appropriate for performance in the church.
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2008). Recitative (/ˌrɛsɪtəˈtiːv/ , also known by its Italian name recitativo ([retʃitaˈtiːvo])) is a style of delivery (much used in operas, oratorios, and cantatas) in which a singer is allowed to adopt the rhythms of ordinary speech. 
recitative (rĕsˌĭtətēvˈ) [ key ], musical declamation for solo voice, used in opera and oratorio for dialogue and for narration. Le Nozze di Figaro by Mozart employs much recitative of this sort. It was used also in cantata and oratorio. In the 18th cent. greater importance was assumed by the recitativo accompagnato or stromentato, accompanied by the string section or the full orchestra, in which the music was more strictly measured.
Fundamental is the fact that Handel's oratorio librettos were in English. The Italian used in opera undoubtedly had snob appeal for London listeners, most of whom, if pressed, could hardly have translated a dozen words of that language without help. The Oratorios of Handel. The Italian Baroque oratorio was hardly anything other than an opera on a sacred subject, presented in concert instead of on the stage. This conception is an essential element of Handel's oratorios.
The baroque opera and oratorios sound very similar. The main difference however is that the opera is secular and the oratorio is sacred. I never really thought to think of the difference between the two. I thought only operas told stories about drama, but oratorios tell stories of drama in basically the same way...musically. However, I think the more entertaining of the two would be the opera. The opera is meant to entertain the audience while oratorio may or may not entertain the audience, but sometimes used for worship. Both of them however share a common key feature and that is the recitative and the aria.
In the opera and oratorio, the recitative is a short intro to the aria which is meant for the star of the performance to let loose with their singing abilities during an important part of the story that may be the climax or a pivotal moment. However, I think the more entertaining of the two would be the opera. The opera is meant to entertain the audience while oratorio may or may not entertain the audience, but sometimes used for worship. Both of them however share a common key feature and that is the recitative and the aria.