The Northwest Ordinance (formally An Ordinance for the Government of the Territory of the United States, North-West of the River Ohio, and also known as the Freedom Ordinance or The Ordinance of 1787) was an act of the Congress of the Confederation of the United States (the Confederation Congress), passed July 13, 1787. The ordinance created the Northwest Territory, the first organized territory of the United States, from lands beyond the Appalachian Mountains, between British Canada and the Great Lakes to the north and the Ohio River to the south. The upper Mississippi River formed the Territory's western boundary.
Rare Book and Special Collections Division. The Northwest Ordinance, officially titled An Ordinance for the Government of the Territory of the United States North West of the River Ohio, was adopted by the Confederation Congress on July 13, 1787. Also known as the Ordinance of 1787, the Northwest Ordinance established a government for the Northwest Territory, outlined the process for admitting a new state to the Union, and guaranteed that newly created states would be equal to the original thirteen states.
The Northwest Territory. The Northwest Ordinance was an act passed by Congress in 1787 that provided rules for governing the Northwest Territory, land north of the Ohio River and west of the Alleghenies. In 1787, Congress passed the Northwest Ordinance, using many of Jefferson's ideas from the failed 1784 proposal. It declared that the territory would be divided into between three and five separate states. Prior to the states being created, a General Assembly would govern the territory.
The Northwest Ordinance created the first organized territory of  the United States. It was passed July 13, 1787 and created a  territory from the lands south of the Great L … akes, north of the  Ohio River, and east of the Mississippi River. Answered. The following are features of the Northwest Ordinance of 1787: The Northwest Ordinance of 1787 governed the territory of what are now the states of Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, … Michigan and Wisconsin.
The Northwest Ordinance, adopted July 13, 1787, by the Second Continental Congress, chartered a government for the Northwest Territory, provided a method for admitting new states to the Union from the territory, and listed a bill of rights guaranteed in the territory. Officially titled An Ordinance for the Government of the Territory of the United States North-West of the River Ohio, the Northwest Ordinance was passed on July 13, 1787.
The Northwest Ordinance was an act of the Congress of the Confederation of the United States. The ordinance was unanimously passed on July 13, 1787. The primary effect of the … ordinance was the creation of the Northwest Territory as the first organized territory of the United States. The following are features of the Northwest Ordinance of 1787: The Northwest Ordinance of 1787 governed the territory of what are now the states of Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, … Michigan and Wisconsin.
The Northeast Ordinance of 1787 allowed for the creation of the Northwest Territory. Slavery in the Northwest Territory was forbidden, and a new border line used Ohio to divide between free and slave states. The following are features of the Northwest Ordinance of 1787: The Northwest Ordinance of 1787 governed the territory of what are now the states of Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, … Michigan and Wisconsin.
The Northwest Ordinance created the first organized territory of  the United States. It was passed July 13, 1787 and created a  territory from the lands south of the Great L … akes, north of the  Ohio River, and east of the Mississippi River. Answered. In American Revolution. 
The Northwest Ordinance forbids slavery, except as criminal punishment, in the Northwest Territory (later Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Michigan, and Wisconsin). 