Another reason breaks are important is that they give students time to spend with their families. It is very important to develop social skills during college and, it is also important to become more independent. Both of these will aid the student when starting a new life after graduation. 
Best Answer: Yes, I definitely think they should get a summer break, and I think that us teachers need one to. After 9 months of school with just a few days off, you NEED a break. School gets boring and stressful, and students need a break just to relax and not have to worry about work, tests, waking up early & grades. Teachers also need a break
The fact that school runs longer than summer break contradicts with the teachers teaching. Students should have the opportunity to receive a good education and be rewarded with a longer summer break. It will have positive results and in the end everyone will benefit from it. School taxes would be a lot less and less drop outs. More kids would be having family/friend bonding time, Students will make more money during the summer vacations from jobs and with that money they can use it for college.
Ideally, students should get multiple Brain Breaks in the day and be active in other ways as well. Here’s an ideal schedule for students, compliments of fellow dietitian Dayle Hayes, who presented the information at a workshop I attended at the Academy of Nutrition and Dietetics’ Food & Nutrition Conference & Expo: It may not be realistic for schools to add in more time for recess or extra PE. But students can easily be given “Brain Breaks” throughout the day. Brain Breaks are short, energizing bursts of activity that boost blood flow, send oxygen to the brain, and help kids better retain information.
Students get two 15-minute unstructured outdoor-play breaks in the morning (one is right before lunch, the other is a full lunch with a short recess afterward), and then two more 15-minute recess breaks in the afternoon. The school day in Finland looks much different from the school day in the United States. We should not sacrifice recess time for classroom time, and neither should be used to discipline students.. In the United States, for example, a 1st grader attends school 35 hours a week, seven hours a day. In Finland, a 1st grader spends 22.5 hours a week in school, or 4.5 hours a day
Report Abuse. Sorry, I cannot contribute my opinion because I feel that there are no substantial reasons why students should have longer breaks in whatsoever ways. With the kids ignorance in this generation, there needs to be more school time, not less. Most kids will disagree with me on this, but mature ones will feel it's true. Here are a few of my opinions: -Breaks allow students to refocus their attention-They help students to wear off excess energy so they're not bored during class-They give students time to have snacks and go to the bathroom so they aren't distracted during class because they're hungry or have to go to the bathroom.
The most popular form of year-round education is the 45-15 plan, where students attend school for 45 days and then get three weeks (15 days) off. The usual holiday breaks are still built into this calendar. Two other ways to organize a school calendar are the 60-20 and the 90-30 plans. 
Students would focus more in school. If Summer break was longer, students would be more motivated to do well in school and know they are being rewarded by having an extended summer. Grades and test scores would rise and it would take the stress off children. School is mandatory but in social studies class teachers teach students of fairness and equality. School taxes would be a lot less and less drop outs. More kids would be having family/friend bonding time, Students will make more money during the summer vacations from jobs and with that money they can use it for college.