Trace minerals are important for metabolic functions in the body. If trace minerals are deficient in the body, then other substances and enzymes will not work properly. This could impede major systems such as our nervous and musculoskeletal systems.
Trace minerals, also called micro minerals, are essential minerals that the human body must get from food, but, unlike macro minerals, we only need a very small amount. Even though trace minerals are needed in tiny doses, they are still crucial to our health and development.
Whether they are macronutrients or micronutrients, vitamins, major minerals or trace minerals, they each have a unique role. A deficiency in any will impact your wellbeing. Eating a diet with both a variety of food groups and a variety within food groups is your best protection against nutrient imbalances.
Five percent of your diet typically includes macro minerals and trace minerals. Macro minerals are minerals that you need in quantities greater than 100mg/day and make up about 1 percent of your total body weight. These include sodium, chloride, potassium, phosphorus, magnesium, and calcium. Trace minerals are elements that are needed is smaller amounts, 1-100mg/day by adults and are less than .01 percent of total body weight. These include Copper, Chromium, Fluoride, Iodine, Iron, Molybdenum, Manganese, Selenium, and Zinc. Trace Minerals are inorganic matter that cannot be destroyed by cooking or heat and are essential to the body for a variety of processes.
Trace Minerals: 1  Chromium is that helps insulin regulate glucose (blood sugar) levels and can be found in liver, whole grains, nuts, and cheeses. 2  Copper aids in the formation of bone and cartilage and helps the body use iron properly. 3  Copper can be found in beef, organ meats, fruits, vegetables, nuts, and beans.
Vitamins and minerals are essential nutrients your body needs in small amounts to work properly. Most people should get all the nutrients they need by eating a varied and balanced diet. The pages in this section contain advice and information on vitamins, minerals and trace elements essential for health, including: