One reason for long delays in the Social Security Disability claims process is that the Social Security Administration and Disability Determination Services are overworked and understaffed. If the claim is denied, you can file a reconsideration appeal which can take another 3-6 months to process. If the reconsideration appeal is denied, a Judicial Hearing can be requested which can take 1-2 years to schedule. There are several reasons it takes so long to process a Social Security Disability claim.
Nevertheless, Social Security is legally obligated to process every claim, even those that have little chance of winning. This is, to a large extent, the reason why disability cases take forever. Here are some more reasons why disability claims take a long time and some ways to expedite your claim. Disability cases handled by the Social Security Administration often seem to take forever to process. If an applicant decides to follow the appeal process to the point where their case is heard by an administrative law judge (ALJ), the total wait, from start to finish, can easily be three years or more.
After your Request for Reconsideration has been denied you're about six to ten months into the Social Security Disability claims process, depending on how long it took you to file your appeal. You now have another 60 days to appeal the denied reconsideration request. This is when the real waiting begins. Many disability applicants send their applications to the Social Security Administration expecting to be approved in just three to four months. Sometimes that happens. Most frequently, however, it does not.
Submitted by Kyle on. Individuals applying for Social Security Disability are required to fill out an initial Social Security Disability application. Unfortunately, this application process can take up to three or four months to complete. According to the Social Security Administration, approximately 30% of Social Security Disability applications are approved at this stage.
This is a huge caseload for the Social Security Administration (SSA) to process, so most disability applicants should expect it to take about three to four months from the time they apply to receive an initial decision on their claim. Sometimes claims are approved as soon as they are processed. If your SSD claim is airtight and you have a condition that meets all of the Social Security Disability eligibility requirements it might take you only three to four months to be approved. Great!
A: Because of the Social Security Disability backlog of cases. There are so many open disability cases, it takes a long time for the SSA to process all of the claims. The family has lost an income source, so money is tight. You want to work, but are unable to do so due to a disabling condition. The disability application process becomes even more disheartening when you find out how long Social Security takes to process
Ask someone who has been through the Social Security Disability application process how long it takes to be approved for benefits and the answers you get will vary. A few people may tell you it only takes three to four months. Many disability applicants send their applications to the Social Security Administration expecting to be approved in just three to four months. Sometimes that happens. Most frequently, however, it does not.
Remember that you'll only receive Social Security disability if you're unable to work and you can't adjust to other types of work -- you're not entitled to partial benefits for short-term or partial disability. Meanwhile, if your disability claim is complicated, it makes sense to get professional help right away. Why Social Security is fraught with delays The biggest problem with Social Security disability is that there are so many people making claims for benefits. Last year, about 3 million people applied for disability, and the Social Security Administration ended up denying about two-thirds of those claims.
The initial application for Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) or Supplemental Security Income (SSI) usually takes between 3 and 6 months to process. If the claim is denied, you can file a reconsideration appeal which can take another 3-6 months to process. If the reconsideration appeal is denied, a Judicial Hearing can be requested which can take 1-2 years to schedule. There are several reasons it takes so long to process a Social Security Disability claim.
According to the Social Security Administration, the full five-step Social Security Disability application and appeals process currently averages 440 days-that's over a year! So why do Social Security Disability (SSD) cases take so long to be approved? Sometimes claims are approved as soon as they are processed. If your SSD claim is airtight and you have a condition that meets all of the Social Security Disability eligibility requirements it might take you only three to four months to be approved. Great!