No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. Section 2. The 14th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution was one of the three Reconstruction Amendments which, along with the 13th and 15th, was primarily intended to establish equal civil rights for former slaves.
The Fourteenth Amendment (Amendment XIV) to the United States Constitution was adopted on July 9, 1868, as one of the Reconstruction Amendments. The amendment addresses citizenship rights and equal protection of the laws, and was proposed in response to issues related to former slaves following the American Civil War. In the decades following the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment, the Supreme Court overturned laws barring blacks from juries (Strauder v. West Virginia, 1880) or discriminating against Chinese Americans in the regulation of laundry businesses (Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 1886), as violations of the Equal Protection Clause.
The Fourteenth Amendment did all of the following EXCEPT a.Extend the rights of national citizenship to all Americans b.Guarantee all citizens equal protection under the law c.Guarantee all male citizens the right to vote d.Ensure citizens of due process. Follow. 2 answers 2. Report Abuse. The Fourteenth Amendment did all of the following EXCEPT. a.Extend the rights of national citizenship to all Americans. b.Guarantee all citizens equal protection under the law. c.Guarantee all male citizens the right to vote. d.Ensure citizens of due process. Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel
No State shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. The 14th Amendment: Today, the Fourteenth Amendment is still important because the Supreme Court has held that it applies many of the protections in the Bill of Rights against the states.
The Fourteenth Amendment sets a definition for citizenship, including the Constitutional rights of slaves and their descendants.     Section 1. All persons born or nat … uralized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside. The 14th Amendment: Today, the Fourteenth Amendment is still important because the Supreme Court has held that it applies many of the protections in the Bill of Rights against the states.
No state shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States; nor shall any state deprive any person of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. But neither the United States nor any state shall assume or pay any debt or obligation incurred in aid of insurrection or rebellion against the United States, or any claim for the loss or emancipation of any slave; but all such debts, obligations and claims shall be held illegal and void.
The 14th Amendment does all of the following EXCEPT: Guarantees the right to trial by jury., Prohibits slavery, Protects citizens from the abuses of state governments, Ensures a citizen’s right to privacy, or Ensures citizens equal protection under the law. 
1 forbids any state to deny a person his or her natural rights life, liberty, and property without due process of law or deny any person within a jurisdiction the equal protection of it's laws. 2  It ensured that blacks would be considered citizens. The 14th Amendment: Today, the Fourteenth Amendment is still important because the Supreme Court has held that it applies many of the protections in the Bill of Rights against the states.
The court does not wish to hear argument on the question whether the provision in the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution, which forbids a State to deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws, applies to these corporations. We are all of the opinion that it does. In the decades following the adoption of the Fourteenth Amendment, the Supreme Court overturned laws barring blacks from juries (Strauder v. West Virginia, 1880) or discriminating against Chinese Americans in the regulation of laundry businesses (Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 1886), as violations of the Equal Protection Clause.