1 A rhombus or diamond shape: [as modifier]: lozenge patterns. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  The windows with the lozenge pattern of leading are all found in pictures thought to have been painted in the late 1650s. 2  At the left of the screen was a lozenge shape circled in red. More. Lozenge, which primarily conveys a diamond shape, is from Old French losenge, probably derived from Spanish losa, or Portuguese lousa ‘slab’, and late Latin lausiae (lapides) meaning ‘(stone) slabs’. The word's use to mean ‘tablet’ arose in the early 16th century from their original diamond shape
This page is about the meaning, origin and characteristic of the symbol, emblem, seal, sign, logo or flag: Lozenge. A lozenge (◊), often referred to as a diamond, is a form of rhombus. The definition of lozenge is not strictly fixed, and it is sometimes used simply as a synonym (from the French losange) for rhombus. Most often, though, lozenge refers to a thin rhombus—a rhombus with acute angles of 45°. The lozenge shape is often used in parquetry and as decoration on ceramics, silverware and textiles. It also features in heraldry and playing cards. The lozenge motif dates as far back as the Neolithic and Paleolithic period in Eastern Europe and represents a sown field and female fertility. 
The lozenge shape is also used for funerary hatchments for both men and women. Pretoria High School for Girls in South Africa is one of the few all-girls schools that was granted permission to use the lozenge as part of its coat of arms. In civic heraldry, a lozenge sable is often used in coal-mining communities to represent a lump of coal.
The lozenge in heraldry is a diamond-shaped charge (an object that can be placed on the field of the shield), usually somewhat narrower than it is tall. Pretoria High School for Girls in South Africa is one of the few all-girls schools that was granted permission to use the lozenge as part of its coat of arms. In civic heraldry, a lozenge sable is often used in coal-mining communities to represent a lump of coal.
1 At the left of the screen was a lozenge shape circled in red. 2  The English method for dealing with hot boiled ham is to glaze it with brown sugar and mustard or fruit juice, and decorate by scoring the fat in a lozenge pattern and studding it with whole cloves. More. Lozenge, which primarily conveys a diamond shape, is from Old French losenge, probably derived from Spanish losa, or Portuguese lousa ‘slab’, and late Latin lausiae (lapides) meaning ‘(stone) slabs’. The word's use to mean ‘tablet’ arose in the early 16th century from their original diamond shape
A mascle is a voided lozenge—that is, a lozenge with a lozenge-shaped hole in the middle—and the rarer rustre is a lozenge containing a circular hole in the centre. A field covered in a pattern of lozenges is described as lozengy; similar fields of mascles are masculy, and fusils, fusily. Pretoria High School for Girls in South Africa is one of the few all-girls schools that was granted permission to use the lozenge as part of its coat of arms. In civic heraldry, a lozenge sable is often used in coal-mining communities to represent a lump of coal.
A lozenge, also referred to as a diamond, is a very ornate or decorative way of cutting a vegetable. This is why lozenges are often used as garnishes. Some of the most common dishes garnished with lozenges are consomme, consommé, aspics and some. Pates but you can cook with them. too The key to using the lozenge in a recipe is to not cook the bejeezus out of it-you don't want it to fall apart. To cut a lozenge, cut a vegetable into a 1-inch wide strip, ⅛ inch thick and a few inches long. Stack 2 to 3 of these strips on top of each other. Start by removing the corner of one section at an angle.
A lozenge (◊), often referred to as a diamond, is a form of rhombus. The definition of lozenge is not strictly fixed, and it is sometimes used simply as a synonym (from the French losange) for rhombus. Most often, though, lozenge refers to a thin rhombus—a rhombus with acute angles of less than 45°. The lozenge in heraldry is a diamond-shaped charge, usually somewhat narrower than it is tall. A mascle is a voided lozenge—that is, a lozenge with a lozenge-shaped hole in the middle—and the rarer rustre is a lozenge containing a circular hole. A field covered in a pattern of lozenges is described as lozengy; a similar field of mascles is masculy