Check the Weather in Morocco in May before you book your next holiday. This gives the best indication of the weather in May and includes figures for temperature, sunshine and rainfall. The Morocco may weather guide shown below is for Marrakech. 
Averages for Agadir in May. Weather Lowdown. May is pleasantly warm in Agadir and slightly quieter than the later summer months, so this is an ideal time of year to travel if you prefer a calmer, cooler holiday. Only four degrees separates the average high and low temperature each day in May. Most days are at most partly cloudy but on a clear day visibility is up to 10km. Sun rise is at around 6:30-7:00AM each morning which, with the cool temperatures at this time of day, means perfect weather for a jog on the beach. The sun shines for 12 hours a day in May so stock up on the sunscreen!
Marrakesh weather text for Sat 17 th October. The weather is forecasted to be sunny with daytime temperature reaching 33 °c. Night time temperature are expected to be 19 °c .It will be dry with no precipitation. The visibility is going to be around 10 km i.e. 6 miles and an atmospheric pressure of 1012 mb. Marrakech in the Spring. Marrakech spring weather is very pleasant, with daytime temperatures of around 22°C in March, rising to the high 20s by May. It may rain on a couple of days each month, but these short sharp showers are usually over very quickly.
This report describes the typical weather at the Marrakech-Menara Airport (Marrakech, Morocco) weather station over the course of an average May. It is based on the historical records from 1974 to 2012. 
This report describes the typical weather at the Anfa Airport (Casablanca, Morocco) weather station over the course of an average May. It is based on the historical records from 1995 to 2012. Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. 
Weather in Morocco. As far as the weather goes, it will be better to visit the south and the desert routes outside midsummer when, for the most of the day, it's far too hot for casual exploration-especially if you're dependant on public transport.
As the weather gets warmer, there are numerous festivals in Morocco in May. One that is unique to Morocco is the Festival of the Roses which is celebrated in Kelaa-des-Mgouna. The average temperature during the month of May rises to 21 degrees Celsius. This figure incorporates a potential low of 14 degrees Celsius, which would likely occur at night, and a high of 27 degrees Celsius. Travellers can expect to en...
The Morocco climate guide is perfect for planning your holiday. Monthly weather averages give the best indication of what the weather is usually like for every month of the year including figures for temperature, rainfall and sunshine. The Morocco climate guide shown below is for Marrakech.
Weather lowdown. May sees the tourist season really kick off in Marrakesh. The city gets busier and the weather becomes much warmer signalling high temperatures and long hours of sunshine. The average temperature during the month of May rises to 21 degrees Celsius. This figure incorporates a potential low of 14 degrees Celsius, which would likely occur at night, and a high of 27 degrees Celsius. Travellers can expect to en...