©Chill It Air Conditioning. Expect to spend a few hundred to a few thousand dollars or more for an air conditioning unit. A portable unit may cost around $500, while a new split system unit can start from $1700. The price you pay depends on the unit’s kilowatt capacity. 
Understanding the cost of installing a split system air conditioner. The cost of installation can vary wildly simple because some situations require more time and material. Of the many installs we do, price is usually a factor. We do our best to install the units in the easiest locations to minimize cost. 
Split System Air Conditioner Installation Costs. The cheapest installation method for installing a split system air conditioner is known as a “BACK-TO-BACK” installation. See below for an explanation and diagram of back-to-back installation. Essentially there are two determining factors with back-to-back installations, hence two price variations. 
The Costs. The average cost to install a mini-split air conditioning system is $1,900. The maximum average cost to install a mini-split air conditioning system is $2,100. The minimum average reported cost for mini split-air conditioner installation is $1,700. Continue reading to see more cost considerations for all mini-split air conditioning systems. Furthermore, proper insulating must be done to maximize energy efficiency. When hiring an HVAC company or contractor to install a mini-split air-conditioning system, there are some specific factors that must be taken into account. The cost of the unit itself usually ranges between $1,100 and $1,400.
1 Expect to pay $2,000-$5,000 to install a complete ductless mini-split air conditioning system in a 800-1,000-square foot home, or $5,000-$7,000 for a 2,000-square-foot house. 
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Split System Air Conditioner Installation project. For a basic 1 unit project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install a Split System Air Conditioner ranges between $2,218.50 - $2,891.54 per unit. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased. 2
The Air Conditioning Contractors of America can usually direct an interested consumer to licensed and qualified HVAC professionals in their region or area. For this discussion, we will consider the costs of installing a ductless or split air conditioning system in a 2,000 square foot home. 1 Electrical wiring to code-Electricians assisting in a ductless air conditioner project will charge from $75-$250 per hour for the installation of a 220 volt receptacle. 2  Additionally, it might cost a bit more if the home's electrical panel also needs a 220 volt circuit added to it, which can cost between $300 and $800
Do you need to know the average cost to install Mini Split Air Conditioning Systems in your zip code? Do you need an easy-to-understand 2015 estimate of Mini Split Air Conditioning System job options and costs? Get pricing INSTANTLY. 1 Mini Split Air Conditioning System installation costs are commonly quoted from a standard rate and can be estimated/quoted by the service professional after measurement and visual inspection at the job site.