Banana: 358mg Potassium (10% DV). Perhaps you thought bananas would rank higher on a list of foods with the most potassium. It’s common knowledge that bananas are a good source of potassium, and interesting to see that there are 5 other well-known foods that have more potassium in them than a banana. In addition to being high in potassium, kale is also a good source of vitamins A and C, calcium and magnesium, and is even a source of protein. There are many different types of kale, so be sure you try out several types so you know which ones you like best.
Bananas. If you’ve heard about any potassium-rich foods, you probably know that bananas are a good source, containing more than 400 mg of potassium each. Bananas make a healthy high-energy snack – more beneficial to athletes than sports drinks, according to at least one study. Other beans high in potassium include white beans, lima beans, pinto beans, and soybeans (edamame). 1  iStock Photo Dried Fruits: Apricots, Peaches, and Figs For a great potassium-rich snack that can also satisfy a sugar craving, try dried apricots.
Many of the elements of the D.A.S.H. eating plan --- fruits, vegetables, fat-free or lowfat (1 percent) dairy foods and fish --- are good natural sources of potassium. A diet that includes natural sources of potassium is important in controlling blood pressure because potassium lessens the effects of sodium. The recommended daily intake of potassium for an average adult is about 4,700 milligrams per day. But potassium should be considered as only part of your total dietary pattern.
Summary of Food Sources. Probably the first food that comes to mind when thinking about potassium is the banana. This is not wrong—by our Rating System, bananas are a good source of potassium. But there are 32 foods on our Rating Chart with more potassium per calorie than the banana. Speaking more generally, the most potassium-rich food sources of potassium are fruits and vegetables. Basic Description. Potassium is a mineral found in varying amounts in almost all foods. Vegetables, especially green leafy varieties, are generally our richest sources of potassium. We list three excellent sources of potassium, 16 as very good sources, and 39 as good sources by our Nutrient Rating System.
It even manages to outdo spinach, the leafy green that often gets brought up in a conversation about foods high in potassium. In addition to being high in potassium, kale is also a good source of vitamins A and C, calcium and magnesium, and is even a source of protein. There are many different types of kale, so be sure you try out several types so you know which ones you like best.
A normal amount of potassium in a typical diet of a healthy American is about 3500 to 4500 milligrams per day. A potassium restricted diet is typically about 2000 milligrams per day. Your physician or dietitian will advise you as to the specific level of restriction you need based on your individual health. It is the job of healthy kidneys to keep the right amount of potassium in your body. However, when your kidneys are not healthy, you often need to limit certain foods that can increase the potassium in your blood to a dangerous level.
Squash is a good source of potassium. Beans are a good source of potassium. Avocado is high in potassium. Kiwis are packed with potassium, an essential mineral that helps the body maintain proper levels of hydration and electrolytes. Yogurt is high in calcium and potassium. All of the following foods have potassium values per 1 cup serving greater than 400 milligrams, and many approach 700 milligrams. Root vegetables including potatoes, beets, parsnips, turnips, and rutabagas are the highest in potassium, and are delicious in roasts: a single baked potato with skin has 700 milligrams.
Potassium is a mineral found in many of the foods you eat. It plays a role in keeping your heartbeat regular and your muscles working right. It is the job of healthy kidneys to keep the right amount of potassium in your body. However, when your kidneys are not healthy, you often need to limit certain foods that can increase the potassium in your blood to a dangerous level.