Carcinoembryonic Antigen (CEA). Guide. The carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) test measures the amount of this protein that may appear in the blood of some people who have certain kinds of cancers, especially cancer of the large intestine (colon and rectal cancer). 
Clinical Information Discusses physiology, pathophysiology, and general clinical aspects, as they relate to a laboratory test. Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) is a glycoprotein normally found in embryonic entodermal epithelium. Interpretation Provides information to assist in interpretation of the test results. After removal of a colorectal tumor, the serum CEA concentration should return to normal by 6 weeks, unless there is residual tumor. Increases in test values over time in a patient with a history of cancer suggest tumor recurrence.
Carcinoembryonic Antigen Test (CEA). A carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) test is a blood test used to help diagnose and manage certain types of cancers, especially cancer of the colon. The test measures the amount of CEA present in the blood. If you already have cancer, this test helps a doctor determine if the treatment for the cancer is working. A CEA test is most useful to monitor patients who already have been diagnosed with a type of cancer that is known to produce CEA. Not all cancers produce CEA. Increased levels of CEA may be found in the following cancers: 1  colorectal (colon) cancer. 2  medullary thyroid carcinoma.
Commentary (Kelly/Goldberg): CEA Monitoring in Colorectal Cancer. Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) monitoring in patients with stage I-IV colorectal cancer has been, and remains, a controversial issue in oncology practice. 
Introduction. A carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) test is used to check how well treatment is working in certain types of cancer, particularly colon cancer. Carcinoembryonic antigens are harmful substances (usually proteins) that are produced by some types of cancer. 
Why a CEA test is done. A CEA test may be done to: 1  help diagnose and monitor a person’s response to treatment for certain cancers. 2  It is most commonly used for colorectal cancer. 
Carcinoembryonic Antigen (CEA). Clinical Use. Monitor persistent, metastatic, or recurrent adenocarcinoma of the colon following curative surgery. Clinical Background. CEA is an oncofetal glycoprotein present in the gastrointestinal tract and body fluids of the embryo and fetus. 
A doctor might order a CEA test for the following reasons: 1  to help diagnose cancer in someone whose symptoms suggest that cancer is a possibility. 2  to find out if the treatment a patient is receiving for their cancer is working. 3  to find out if a cancer has come back (recurred) later on. A CEA test is most useful to monitor patients who already have been diagnosed with a type of cancer that is known to produce CEA. Not all cancers produce CEA. Increased levels of CEA may be found in the following cancers: 1  colorectal (colon) cancer. 2  medullary thyroid carcinoma.