Browse through our huge selection of wine making ingredients used for homemade wines. Shop through our expanded line of wine making kits that contain all the necessary ingredients, including grape wine concentrate for making up to 6 gallons of homemade wine.
Enjoy high-quality grapes and other wine making ingredients, from wine kits, oak, finings, wine yeast, clarifiers, grape vines (seasonal), concentrates and everything in between. Use a wine recipe kit or construct your homemade wine from your own recipe to take your wine making to the next level.
Each kits ingredients are guaranteed fresh. The wine making kit averages about 6 gallons or 30 bottles of wine made right from the comfort of your own home. These brands of wine making juices are guaranteed to make your taste buds jump and impress your friends as you enjoy your first taste of your homemade wine.
The theory that wine was discovered by accident is most likely correct because wine grapes contain all the necessary ingredients for wine, including pulp, juice, and seeds that possess all the acids, sugars, tannins, minerals, and vitamins that are found in wine.
Our wine making equipment kits were designed to produce the standard 6 gallon wine kit, but they can also be used to make wine from fruit when made with additives and additional ingredients.
Wine has been described as the perfect beverage because the grapes contain all the ingredients necessary to create their transformation. Put grapes in a vat, and over time the yeasts coating the skins set alchemy in motion, converting the sugar in the juice into alcohol. It was just this sort of unbidden fermentation that inspired humans so long ago to spend the next few millenniums improving their methods of winemaking.
First you need some basic equipment that you will use over and over again. Then you will need the actual ingredients that make up the wine. Wine can be made from scratch with fruit, yeast, water and additives or from one of the award winning kits that we carry.
When you are learning how to make homemade wine you will need to know why the ingredients are being used, there are many other ingredients that can be used for your wine but the basic ones are the grapes, the sugar, and the yeast.