1 Just dial *67 before the phone number on your cell phone. 2  This code is the universal command to deactivate caller ID. 3  For example, placing a blocked call would look like *67 555 555 5555 (without the spaces). 4  On the receiving end, caller ID will usually display “private number” because it has been blocked.
Call Rejection. Use Call Rejection when you want to block specific phone numbers. To do this, you create a list of the phone numbers that you want to reject. Then, anyone calling from a number on your list can't get through.
3. Hide your number through your device's settings. Many phones allow you to block your Caller ID information by changing the phone's settings. If your phone does not have the option to do this, then it is not allowed by your carrier, and you will have to try one of the previous steps.
To use this feature, just add the number you want to block to your contacts. You can do this by opening the Dialer app, swiping over to the history tab, and tapping the number. Tap the Add to contacts option and the number will be added to your phone’s contacts.
1 If you temporarily want your number to appear when you have a permanent line block in place, you can dial *82 before the number. 2  For example, allowing your number to appear in this case would look like *82 555 555 5555 (without the spaces).
If you want to block your cell phone number from showing up on other phones (for whatever reason), you can do it temporarily simply by dialing *67 before the number you're calling.
You can block your Caller ID information so that your number does not appear on the recipient's phone. You can do this by using a special prefix, contacting your carrier, or by using the features on your device. See Step 1 below to learn how. Ad.
Steps. 1. Use a caller ID blocking prefix. In many countries, you can enter a code before you dial a number and your phone number will be blocked from appearing on the recipient's caller ID. The code varies depending on your country and your service provider, and it is not possible to block in all countries.