The type of medicine commonly used in preventer inhalers is a steroid. Steroids work by reducing the inflammation in the airways. When the inflammation has gone, the airways are much less likely to become narrow and cause symptoms such as wheezing. If you have an exacerbation (flare-up) of your asthma symptoms, you may be advised to take the preventer inhaler more often. It takes 7-14 days for the steroid in a preventer inhaler to build up its effect. This means it will not give any immediate relief of symptoms (like a reliever does).
You should therefore always use a long-acting reliever inhaler in combination with a preventer inhaler, and never by itself. In view of this, most long-acting relievers are prescribed in a combination inhaler, which contains both an inhaled steroid (as a preventer) and a long-acting bronchodilator in the one device. Examples of combination inhalers include Seretide, Symbicort, Fostair, Flutiform and Relvar.
Asthma inhalers can deliver medicine in a variety of ways, including: 1  Metered dose inhalers (MDIs): An MDI delivers asthma medicine through a small, handheld aerosol canister. 2  The MDI gently puffs the medicine into your mouth when you press down on the inhaler and you breathe the medicine in. Asthma inhalers are handheld devices used to deliver asthma medicine into the airways. The inhaler delivers a puff of medicine as the person breathes in. Common types of asthma inhalers include reliever inhalers to help with symptoms such as wheezing, and preventer inhalers to be used to help prevent symptoms
Childhood AsthmaAsthma Medications (Preventers) This section will provide information on preventer medications used in the treatment of asthma. Note: All medications have a commercial name, and a chemical name. Generic products often use the chemical name. In this site, drugs' chemical names are given in brackets. Asthma Medications (Preventers). This section will provide information on preventer medications used in the treatment of asthma.
The airways and lungs are treated, but little of the medicine gets into the rest of the body. The proper medicine name is called the generic name. Different drug companies can use the generic medicine and produce different brands-the proprietary medicine names. There are many different brands of inhalers. Inhalers can have generic names and be produced by different drug companies too. If you have an exacerbation (flare-up) of your asthma symptoms, you may be advised to take the preventer inhaler more often. It takes 7-14 days for the steroid in a preventer inhaler to build up its effect. This means it will not give any immediate relief of symptoms (like a reliever does).
These inhalers consist of a pressurized canister containing medication that fits into a boot-shaped plastic mouthpiece. With most metered dose inhalers, medication is released by pushing the canister into the boot. One type of metered dose inhaler releases medication automatically when you inhale. Asthma inhalers are hand-held portable devices that deliver medication to your lungs. A variety of asthma inhalers are available to help control asthma symptoms. Finding the right one can help you get the right dose of medication to prevent or treat asthma attacks.
Asthma: preventer medications. Asthma is a chronic (long-term) inflammatory disorder of the airways. Preventer medicines are anti-inflammatory medications. They make your airways less sensitive by reducing the swelling of the lining of your airways and decreasing the production of mucus.
If your asthma symptoms are well controlled with a regular preventer you may then not need to use a reliever inhaler very often, if at all. Inhalers that contain medicines called sodium cromoglicate (brand name Intal®) or nedocromil (brand name Tilade®) are sometimes used as preventers. If you have an exacerbation (flare-up) of your asthma symptoms, you may be advised to take the preventer inhaler more often. It takes 7-14 days for the steroid in a preventer inhaler to build up its effect. This means it will not give any immediate relief of symptoms (like a reliever does).