Off the 1978 album, Boys in the Trees, this song was co-written by Carly Simon and Michael McDonald (of The Doobie Brothers), who also has recorded the song. Play on youtube. 
The 1952 version of the song was recorded by Sue Thompson on Mercury 's country label as catalog number 6407. It was soon covered by Patti Page, whose version was issued by Mercury as catalog number 5899, with  I Went to Your Wedding  (a bigger Patti Page hit, reaching No 1) on the flip side. You Belong to Me  is a romantic pop music ballad from the 1950s.
Originally recorded by McDonald's rock group The Doobie Brothers for their seventh studio album, Livin' on the Fault Line (1977), the song was made famous by Simon herself when she recorded it for her seventh studio album, Boys in the Trees (1978). 1 Los Hooligans, a traditional ska band from Fresno, California, covered the song on their Mafioso Ska CD released in 2006 with lead vocals sung by Randy Young. 2  Simon herself re-recorded the song on her 2009 album Never Been Gone, with guest vocalist John Forte.  forté
You Belong with Me  is a country pop song performed by American recording artist Taylor Swift. The song was co-written by Swift and Liz Rose and produced by Nathan Chapman with Swift's aid. At the 52nd Grammy Awards, the song received nominations for the Grammy Awards for Song of the Year, Record of the Year, and Best Female Pop Vocal Performance. You Belong with Me enjoyed commercial success as well; it became a top ten hit in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the United States.
Image credit: Like us on Facebook. The song Tonight You Belong to Me was written in 1926 by Billy Rose and Lee David. Gene Austin made the song a hit a year later, and it was brought back to prominence in the 1950's by various acts (Frankie Laine and The Lennon Sisters among them)
You Belong to Me is credited to three writers: Pee Wee King, Chilton Price and Redd Stewart. Price, a songwriting librarian at WAVE Radio Louisville, had written the song in its virtual entirety as Hurry Home to Me envisioning the song as an American woman's plea to a sweetheart serving overseas in World War II. You Belong to Me  is a romantic pop music ballad from the 1950s.
This was written in 1952 by Chilton Price, Redd Stewart and Pee Wee King. Stewart was the lead singer of Pee Wee King's Golden West Cowboys, who were a popular Country act and regulars at the Grand Ole Opry. Chilton Price was a female songwriter who started writing this song.
By The Boot Staff November 21, 2014 10:30 AM. Share on Facebook Share on Twitter. ‘You Belong With Me,’ from Taylor Swift‘s second album, ‘Fearless,’ was co-written by the songstress and Liz Rose; Swift also aided in the production of the track. 
read more. You Belong with Me is the title of a song co-written and recorded by American country artist Taylor Swift. It is the third single from her second album, Fearless. In this song, she plays the innocent girl as well as her neighbour's girlfriend. 