Overview. The palatine tonsils are dense compact bodies of lymphoid tissue that are located in the lateral wall of the oropharynx, bounded by the palatoglossus muscle anteriorly and the palatopharyngeus and superior constrictor muscles posteriorly and laterally. The adenoid is a median mass of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue. 
Tonsils. Tonsils are clusters of lymphatic tissue just under the mucous membranes that line the nose, mouth, and throat (pharynx). There are three groups of tonsils. The pharyngeal tonsils are located near the opening of the nasal cavity into the pharynx. When these tonsils become enlarged they may interfere with breathing and are called adenoids.
Palatine tonsil Location. Tonsils of this type are situated behind the cavity of the mouth. It is implanted in the lateral wall of the pharynx that is located on either side of the fauces (the passage between the pharynx and the back of the mouth) placed between the posterior and anterior pillars of the soft palate. 
All rights reserved. The tonsils (palatine tonsils) are a pair of soft tissue masses located at the rear of the throat (pharynx). Each tonsil is composed of tissue similar to lymph nodes, covered by pink mucosa (like on the adjacent mouth lining). Running through the mucosa of each tonsil are pits, called crypts. 
The lingual tonsil is a small mound of lymphatic tissue located at the back of the base of the tongue. Two lingual tonsils are in the mouth, one on each side of the tongue. 
Your tonsils are gland-like structures in the back of your throat. You have one located in a pocket on each side. Tonsils are made of tissue that contains lymphocytes -- cells in your body that prevent and fight infections. If someone asked you where stones can form in the human body, you might think of the kidneys. But, the kidneys aren't the only place. The tonsils are another location where hard, and sometimes, painful stones may develop in certain people.
Palatine tonsil. The palatine tonsils are located at the back of the throat. One tonsil is located on the left side of the throat and the other is located on the right side. The tonsils play a role in protecting the body against respiratory and gastrointestinal infections. 
the tonsils are located toward the back of the throat before the beginning of the esophagus. The main function of the tonsils are to produce Lymph fluid that aids in the … defense against many types of pathogenic organisms that accompany food passage through the esophagus. Tonsils are large bumps of special tissue located on either side of your throat at the back of your tongue. They are part of your lymphatic system, which helps your body defen … d itself against disease-causing germs and other foreign substances tonsils are guillermo the big chinese dude.
A tonsillectomy is the surgical removal of the tonsils. The tonsils are visible glands located in the back of your throat. Tonsils fight infection but can get infected and enlarged themselves. Infection of the tonsils is called tonsillitis. 
The tonsils are the two masses of tissue on either side of the back of the throat. Tonsils and adenoids are strategically located near the entrance to the breathing passages where they can catch incoming infections. 