Your Insolvency Practitioner will use this information to see how much equity is in your property. The amount of equity you’re required to pay into your IVA is usually based on an 85% loan to value (LTV), unless your lenders have told us otherwise. However, the payments you'll make into your IVA will take into account your essential costs, including any priority debts you have, so you should be confident that you'll be able to afford your mortgage payments.
If you’re unable to do this for any reason, your IVA could be extended for another 12 months. Your ability to get a new mortgage during an IVA, for example, if your fixed rate ends, is likely to be impacted due to the effect on your credit rating. You also won’t be able to sell or transfer ownership without talking to your IVA provider. However, the payments you'll make into your IVA will take into account your essential costs, including any priority debts you have, so you should be confident that you'll be able to afford your mortgage payments.
Should the property increase in value during the term of the IVA, the creditors may also insist on a remortgage to release some of the equity to repay the debt. A record of the IVA will remain on an individual's credit file usually for a period of 6 years (so 12 months longer than the average IVA term of 5 years). However, if an individual is looking to buy their first home, being in an IVA could affect their ability to get a mortgage. When entering an IVA agreement, one of the conditions laid out by the creditors is that the individual does not get into any further debt.
To get an IVA you need a stable income and will usually have assets, like a house or car. Not all debts can be brought into an IVA. The main ones that can are overdrafts, personal loans, credit and store cards, catalogue debts and student loans. 
Re: My husband has IVA I want to get a mortgage. Your husband's IVA should have no bearing on your ability to obtain credit, which includes getting a mortgage. However, if the monthly payments are going to affect your husband's monthly payments then his IVA could be at risk of failing. He'll need to speak to his IP.
Unlike bankruptcy, you can get mortgage or remortgage your home, whether you are in an IVA or have previously been in one. If you want a mortgage with a current IVA perhaps as part of the 4th year settlement -, then please get in touch as they need careful handling to ensure they complete swiftly and successfully. If you are in an IVA (Individual Voluntary Arrangement), then providing it has been running at least 6 months and has no missed payments there are lenders that will offer an IVA mortgage. Although an IVA puts a strain on your credit and thus your borrowing ability, it does not prevent you from getting a mortgage.
Tweet. If you’re accepted for credit, it’s down to you. Credit ratings appear to have such an elevated sense of importance these days. Whether it’s because you want to get a mortgage in the future or because you worry about what’s round the corner and want the ability to borrow if and when you need to.
If you’re a homeowner, about six months from the end of your IVA, you will need to release the equity in your home for the benefit of your lenders. There will be a valuation of your home, and you will need to provide your most recent mortgage statement. However, the payments you'll make into your IVA will take into account your essential costs, including any priority debts you have, so you should be confident that you'll be able to afford your mortgage payments.
As the mortgage is in your name only, your house would not be. considered an asset in your partner’s bankruptcy and your own credit file shouldn’t be affected (unless you have joint credit debt together, such as a personal loan). If you’re accepted for credit, it’s down to you. Credit ratings appear to have such an elevated sense of importance these days. Whether it’s because you want to get a mortgage in the future or because you worry about what’s round the corner and want the ability to borrow if and when you need to.
16 How does an IVA affect credit rating An IVA will affect your credit rating for 6 years, beginning at the start date of the IVA. Your IVA will not impact on your partner's credit rating or other people you live with, so long as you do not have any 'shared', or joint accounts. How does an IVA affect credit rating. Call us now for free on 0800 856 8569 Apply for an IVA FAQs. 17 Can I do an IVA if I am unemployed Yes.