In some presidential elections, superdelegates can play a major role in determining the Democratic nominee. Unlike delegates, superdelegates are not bound to represent the popular vote of a region at the Democratic National Convention; they are free to support any candidate for the nomination. The Republican Party does not have superdelegates.
And we should remember that superdelegates are now 40 percent of the total of what is needed to win the nomination - 20 percent of the total delegates, but 40 percent of the total needed to win that nomination.
So-called superdelegates, unique to the Democratic party, are drawn from the Democratic National Committee, members of Congress, governors and distinguished party leaders -- like former presidents, vice presidents, and congressional leaders.
Over 80 percent of the total delegate votes at the convention are from these pledged delegates. In caucus states, pledged delegates are elected through a series of local-level meetings and conventions and then are allocated to the candidates based on the candidate's showing in the caucuses.
The Democratic party also has a third type: super-delegates. A super-delegate is a leader in the National Democratic Party who has a vote at the national convention; they not selected by state party members. A candidate needs 2,025 delegates for the nomination.
Super-Delegates In 2008. In 2008, a candidate needs 2,025 votes to win the Democratic presidential nomination. There are about 850 super-delegates. Roll Call keeps a list of Congressional endorsements, or see this list at CNN and this one at Democratic Convention Watch.
WASHINGTON (CNN) -- As the Democratic primary race heats up between Sens. Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama, the delegate estimate between the two remains extremely close. For the first time, Democratic superdelegates may decide their party's nominee.
A: Because Obama and Clinton are neck-and-neck in pledged delegates, the superdelegate number could set a candidate over the top, getting the magic number of delegates needed to win the party's nomination.