The cause of osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is believed to be due to a genetic defect that causes imperfectly-formed, or an inadequate amount of, bone collagen-a protein found in the connective tissue. The disorder occurs in one out of 20,000 to one out of 60,000 live births. OI can affect males and females of all races. Osteogenesis imperfecta. Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI), also known as brittle-bone disease, is a genetic (inherited) disorder characterized by bones that break easily without a specific cause.
The cause of osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is a genetic defect that affects the body's production of collagen. Collagen is the major protein of the body's connective tissue and can be likened to the framework around which a building is constructed. The Role of Genetics. Because the defect that leads to osteogenesis imperfecta -- whether inherited or due to a spontaneous mutation -- is usually dominant, a person with OI has a 50 percent chance of passing on the disorder to each of his or her children.
Back to Top Causes. Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is a congenital disease, meaning it is present at birth. It is frequently caused by defect in the gene that produces type 1 collagen, an important building block of bone. There are many different defects that can affect this gene. The severity of OI depends on the specific gene defect. How well a person does depends on the type of OI they have. 1  Type I, or mild OI, is the most common form. 2  Persons with this type can live a normal lifespan. 3  Type II is a severe form that is usually leads to death in the first year of life. 4  Type III is also called severe OI.
Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is a group of genetic disorders that mainly affect the bones. The term osteogenesis imperfecta means imperfect bone formation. People with this condition have bones that break easily, often from mild trauma or with no apparent cause. This type of collagen is the most abundant protein in bone, skin, and other connective tissues that provide structure and strength to the body. Most of the mutations that cause osteogenesis imperfecta type I occur in the COL1A1 gene.
Osteogenesis Imperfecta in Children. Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI), also known as brittle-bone disease, is a genetic (inherited) disorder characterized by bones that break easily without a specific cause. An estimated 20,000 to 50,000 people in the U.S. have this disease. OI can affect males and females of all races. The cause of OI is believed to be because of a genetic defect that causes imperfectly formed or an inadequate amount of bone collagen, a protein found in the connective tissue. The following are the most common symptoms for OI. However, each child may experience symptoms differently.
In most cases, the osteogenesis imperfecta cause is a dominant genetic defect (known as autosomal dominant) in the genes responsible for making collagen. Some children with osteogenesis imperfecta inherit the disorder from a parent. Other children are born with OI even though there is no family history of the disorder. The Role of Genetics. Because the defect that leads to osteogenesis imperfecta -- whether inherited or due to a spontaneous mutation -- is usually dominant, a person with OI has a 50 percent chance of passing on the disorder to each of his or her children.
Type I osteogenesis imperfecta is the most common and mildest type of this disease. While the structure of the collagen is normal, there is less collagen than there should be. There is little or no bone deformity, although the bones are fragile and easily broken. Type II Osteogenesis Imperfecta. Type II osteogenesis imperfecta is the most severe form of the disease. The collagen does not form properly. Bones may break even while the fetus is in the womb. Many infants with type II osteogenesis imperfecta do not survive.
Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is a disease that causes weak bones that break easily. It is known as brittle bone disease. Sometimes the bones break for no known reason. OI can also cause many other problems such as weak muscles, brittle teeth, and hearing loss. About 20,000 to 50,000 people in the United States have OI. 
Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI), also known as brittle bone disease or Lobstein syndrome, is a congenital bone disorder characterized by brittle bones that are prone to fracture. People with OI are born with defective connective tissue, or without the ability to make it, usually because of a deficiency of type I collagen. 