Yeah, it's true. Your first love is basically what teaches you some of the most important things of love. You learn what to do and what not to. It's painful, but it's one of the most meaningful and important relationships everyone goes through.
Please try again later. I would have given you all of my heart But there's someone who's torn it apart And he's taken just all that I have But if you want I'll try to love again Baby, I'll try to love again, but I know... The first cut is the deepest... 
My Interpretation. I think most here have the idea of what the song means. I would have given you all of my heart = new love. But there's someone who's torn it apart = ex girlfriend. Baby, I'll try to love again, but I know/The first cut is the deepest = I'll try to love again but the first heart break hurts the most.
The first cut is the deepest. When it comes to bein' lucky, he's cursed. When it comes to lovin' me, he's worst. OOHHH, the first cut is the deepest. Baby I know (baby I know). The first cut is the deepest. Try to love again... Submit Corrections. Visit www.azlyrics.com for these lyrics. 
\nThe first cut is the deepest but when it comes to being lucky he's first and when it comes to lovin me he's worst oh, the first cut is the deepest, baby I know, the first cut is the deepest try to love again. Click add artist photo and then Browse to choose artist's image from your disc. \nI still want you by my side just to help me dry the tears that I've cried but I'm sure gonna give you a try 'cause if you wanna try to love again Baby i'll try to love again but I know... Oh, \nThe first cut is the deepest, baby I know.
The first cut is the deepest. But when it comes to being lucky he's cursed. When it comes to lovin' me he's worst. I still want you by my side just to help me dry the tears that I've cried but I'm sure gonna give you a try 'cause if you wanna try to love again Baby i'll try to love again but I know... \nI still want you by my side just to help me dry the tears that I've cried but I'm sure gonna give you a try 'cause if you wanna try to love again Baby i'll try to love again but I know... Oh, \nThe first cut is the deepest, baby I know.
And the first cut may be the deepest, but it seems reopening the wound can be surprisingly painless. Almost 75pc of rekindled flames are successful, according to a landmark study of 'lost love' reunions. Just look at The Notebook. Capturing that unforgettable feeling of first love -- and the loss of it, the 2004 tear-jerker starring Ryan Gosling has practically become a rite of passage for women everywhere.
\nThe first cut is the deepest. \nBut when it comes to being lucky he's cursed. \nWhen it comes to lovin' me he's worst. \nI still want you by my side just to help me dry the tears that I've cried but I'm sure gonna give you a try 'cause if you wanna try to love again Baby i'll try to love again but I know... Oh, \nThe first cut is the deepest, baby I know.
So, perhaps a first love really is the deepest. For one, first loves seem to help us craft our definition of love — which, as we all know, varies from person to person. And this definition appears to be the one off which we’ve based all of our relationships. 
Report Abuse. On the symbolic side of things. It is the deepest because it is unexpected, and you still can't believe the person could cut (hurt) you that way. On the Literal side, any cut hurts, but the first time you get one, it's like something you never imagined feeling. Such awful pain. 