Main Types of Glass. Today, flat glass comes in many highly specialised forms intended for different products and applications. Flat glass produced by way of the float process is often further processed (see below) to give it certain qualities or specificities. Laminated glass is produced using one of two methods: 1  Poly Vinyl Butyral (PVB) laminated glass is produced using heat and pressure to sandwich a thin layer of PVB between layers of glass. 2  On occasion, other polymers such as Ethyl Vinyl Acetate (EVA) or Polyurethane (PU) are used. 3  This is the most common method.
The most familiar, and historically the oldest, types of glass are based on the chemical compound silica (silicon dioxide), the primary constituent of sand. The term glass, in popular usage, is often used to refer only to this type of material, which is familiar from use as window glass and in glass bottles. In the 20th century, new types of glass such as laminated glass, reinforced glass and glass bricks have increased the use of glass as a building material and resulted in new applications of glass. Multi-storey buildings are frequently constructed with curtain walls made almost entirely of glass.
The main types of glass are described below: This is the most common commercial glass and less expensive. The composition of soda-lime glass is normally 60-75% silica, 12-18% soda, and 5-12% lime. A low percentage of other materials can be added for specific properties such as coloring. 
Types of Glassware. Just as there are different types of glass, there are a multitude of glassware options, from beer steins to decanters, martini glasses, and more. The following table contains a wide selection of different glass types. To get different types of glass, various metal-based alkalis are added to the sand mixture. In addition, different materials are added to the mixture to affect color and create the patterns found in the different types of glasses available today.
Types of glass. There are a number of different types of glass, in a range of patterns and tints, and it is important to decide which is most suited for a particular job. 
Annealed glass. Annealed glass is the basic flat glass product that is the first result of the float process. It is common glass that tends to break into large, jagged shards. It is used in some end products and often in double-glazed windows. Laminated glass is produced using one of two methods: 1  Poly Vinyl Butyral (PVB) laminated glass is produced using heat and pressure to sandwich a thin layer of PVB between layers of glass. 2  On occasion, other polymers such as Ethyl Vinyl Acetate (EVA) or Polyurethane (PU) are used. 3  This is the most common method.
Read about and see all of the types of glass you can use in your stained glass work. There are hundreds, probably thousands, of types of glass, with their different colors and textures, used in stained glass work. They all start out being one of the 2 basic types, cathedral or opalescent, then expand from there. Cathedral glass is clear glass that you can see through. 
Types of Glass. Glasses may be devised to meet almost any imaginable requirement. There are many different types of glass with different chemical and physical properties and each can be made by a suitable adjustment to chemical compositions. 