For the meaning of other masterpieces, see: Famous Paintings Analyzed. Art Education To appreciate Flemish painters like Pieter Brugel, see our educational essays: Art Evaluation and also: How to Appreciate Paintings. Among the greatest genre paintings of the Northern Renaissance, and the most famous of all Flemish illustrations of peasant life, the work exemplifies the artist's late-style, with its use of monumental Italianate figures.
Interpretation of The Peasant Wedding. Among the greatest genre paintings of the Northern Renaissance, and the most famous of all Flemish illustrations of peasant life, the work exemplifies the artist's late-style, with its use of monumental Italianate figures.
Pieter Bruegel The Road to Calvary, (detail of the mourners). Peasant Wedding, 1568. Oil on Wood, 45x64in (114x164cm) Kunsthistorisches Museum Vienna. (s). The Peasant Wedding is one of Pieter Bruegel's most familiar paintings. The images of the chunky waiters carrying the very large tray of food supported by wooden poles have been used in many an advertising campaign. How to capture everyday life was the artist's preoccupation here. Bruegel would often dress in peasant clothing and mingle with the crowd at events such as weddings and parties.
The Peasant Wedding, 1566–69, oil on panel. By 1558, Bruegel began painting more than drawing or carving. He primarily painted religious scenes in a Belgian setting, such as in his paintings, Conversion of Paul and The Sermon of St. John the Baptist. In the 1560s, Bruegel began painting the ordinary life of peasants. Often Bruegel painted a community event, as in The Peasant Wedding and The Fight Between Carnival and Lent. In paintings like The Peasant Wedding, Bruegel painted individual, identifiable people while the people in The Fight Between Carnival and Lent are unidentifiable, muffin-faced allegories of greed or gluttony.
In contrast to his earlier engraving of The Vices (1556-57), which Bruegel populated with grotesque figures in the manner of Hieronymus Bosch, The Peasant Wedding is a far more naturalistic, even mundane commentary. Among the greatest genre paintings of the Northern Renaissance, and the most famous of all Flemish illustrations of peasant life, the work exemplifies the artist's late-style, with its use of monumental Italianate figures.
Two early sources for Bruegel's biography are Lodovico Guicciardini 's account of the Low Countries and Karel van Mander 's 1604 Schilder-boeck. Guicciardini recorded that Bruegel was born in Breda, but according to van Mander, he was born in Breugel near the (now Dutch) town of Eindhoven. Often Bruegel painted a community event, as in The Peasant Wedding and The Fight Between Carnival and Lent. In paintings like The Peasant Wedding, Bruegel painted individual, identifiable people while the people in The Fight Between Carnival and Lent are unidentifiable, muffin-faced allegories of greed or gluttony.
The Peasant Wedding is a 1567 genre painting by the Flemish Renaissance painter and printmaker Pieter Bruegel the Elder, one of his many depicting peasant life. It is currently housed in the Kunsthistorisches Museum, Vienna. 
Pieter Bruegel specialized in genre paintings populated by peasants, often with a landscape element, but he also painted religious works. Making the life and manners of peasants the main focus of a work was rare in painting in Bruegel's time, and he was a pioneer of the genre painting. Often Bruegel painted a community event, as in The Peasant Wedding and The Fight Between Carnival and Lent. In paintings like The Peasant Wedding, Bruegel painted individual, identifiable people while the people in The Fight Between Carnival and Lent are unidentifiable, muffin-faced allegories of greed or gluttony.
Other famous peasant genre paintings by Pieter Bruegel the Elder, include: The Wedding Dance (1566, Detroit Institute of Arts), The Land of Cockaigne (1567, Alte Pinakothek, Munich), and The Peasant Dance (c.1568, KM, Vienna). More Works By Pieter Bruegel the Elder. Among the greatest genre paintings of the Northern Renaissance, and the most famous of all Flemish illustrations of peasant life, the work exemplifies the artist's late-style, with its use of monumental Italianate figures.
Despite Bruegel's nickname Peasant Bruegel, he was not just a painter of everyday comical peasant life. He also painted religious subjects often in an unconventional manner and was greatly influenced by the painter Hieronymus Bosch. The images of the chunky waiters carrying the very large tray of food supported by wooden poles have been used in many an advertising campaign. How to capture everyday life was the artist's preoccupation here. Bruegel would often dress in peasant clothing and mingle with the crowd at events such as weddings and parties.