1 Slowness-bradykinesia (slow movement) and akinesia (inability to move) are common in people with Parkinson's disease. 2  This is a hypokinetic disorder characterized by hypokinesia or akinesia, rigidity, and a rhythmic fine tremor at the rate of 3-6 cycles per second. 
Hypokinesia refers to decreased bodily movement. One of the two categories of movement disorders, hypokinesia is characterized by a partial or complete loss of muscle movement due to a disruption in the basal ganglia. Patients with hypokinetic disorders like Parkinson's disease experience muscle rigidity and an inability to produce movement. 
Akinesia may manifest in other various diseases such as the following: 1  Huntington’s disease – Huntington’s disease is a disease involving the degeneration of nerve cells, which is genetic or hereditary in nature. In the medical field, particularly in neurology however, a more specific definition of akinesia would be the inability or incapability to initiate a particular act of motion. Basically, akinesia is a motor disorder.
akinesia. 1. absence or loss of the power of voluntary movement. 2. the temporary paralysis of a muscle by the injection of procaine. akinesia al´gera a condition characterized by generalized pain associated with movement of any kind. (ā-ki-nē'sē-ă, ā-kī-),
Akinesia Definition. Akinesia is a compound word that comes from the prefix, “-a”, meaning without or lacking thereof and, the Greek word “kinesis”, meaning movement or in motion. Literally speaking, akinesia translates to “the lacking of movement” or “without movement”. It is also widely dubbed as “poverty in movement”. In the medical field, particularly in neurology however, a more specific definition of akinesia would be the inability or incapability to initiate a particular act of motion. Basically, akinesia is a motor disorder.
This is loss of standard motor functions or slowness that causes impaired movement of muscle; plainly “without movement” or “without much movement”. It can be caused by paralysis or paralysis that is temporary and also from being in a coma. Akinesia might disturb all or only a portion of the body. Akinesia Causes. The causes of akinesia are any of a number of disorders which are similar to Parkinson’s disease. It is unclear what causes the atypical functioning of the nerves that are linked to these types of disease so it is unclear what causes akinesia. There are definite situations and drugs that can cause akinesia
akinesia. Definitions: 1. Absence or loss of the power of voluntary movement, due to an extrapyramidal disorder. 2. Obsolete term denoting the postsystolic interval of rest of the heart. 3. Absence of either inward or outward (dyskinesia) movement of a ventricular region during systole. 