Sympathetic (adj). of or relating to the sympathetic nervous system or some of its branches; produced by stimulation on the sympathetic nervious system or some part of it; as, the sympathetic saliva, a modified form of saliva, produced from some of the salivary glands by stimulation of a sympathetic nerve fiber. Princeton's WordNet (3.58 / 14 votes) Rate this definition: sympathetic (adj). of or relating to the sympathetic nervous system. sympathetic neurons; sympathetic stimulation. sympathetic (adj). expressing or feeling or resulting from sympathy or compassion or friendly fellow feelings; disposed toward
The adjective SYMPATHETIC has 6 senses: 1. of or relating to the sympathetic nervous system. 2. expressing or feeling or resulting from sympathy or compassion or friendly fellow feelings; disposed toward. 3. having similar disposition and tastes. 4. showing or motivated by sympathy and understanding and generosity. 5. (of characters in literature or drama) evoking empathic or sympathetic feelings. 6. relating to vibrations that occur as a result of vibrations in a nearby body. Familiarity information: SYMPATHETIC used as an adjective is common.
sympathetic nervous system the thoracolumbar part of the autonomic nervous system, the preganglionic fibers of which arise from cell bodies in the thoracic and first three lumbar segments of the spinal cord; postganglionic fibers are distributed to the heart, smooth muscle, and glands of the entire body. sympathetic nervous system. the part of the autonomic nervous system whose preganglionic fibers arise from cell bodies in the thoracic and
sympathetic nervous system the thoracolumbar part of the autonomic nervous system, the preganglionic fibers of which arise from cell bodies in the thoracic and first three lumbar segments of the spinal cord; postganglionic fibers are distributed to the heart, smooth muscle, and glands of the entire body. sympathetic nervous system. the part of the autonomic nervous system whose preganglionic fibers arise from cell bodies in the thoracic and
sympathetic. adj. 1. characterized by, feeling, or showing sympathy; understanding. 2. in accord with the subject's personality or mood; congenial: a sympathetic atmosphere. 1. characterized by, proceeding from, exhibiting, or feeling sympathy; sympathizing; compassionate: a sympathetic listener. 2. in harmony with one's tastes, mood, or disposition; congenial: a sympathetic companion. 3. looking upon with favor (often fol. by to or toward): She is sympathetic to the project.
Sympathetic nervous system: A part of the nervous system that serves to accelerate the heart rate, constrict blood vessels, and raise blood pressure. The sympathetic nervous system and the parasympathetic nervous system constitute the autonomic nervous system. 
Sympathy (from the Greek words syn together and pathos feeling which means fellow-feeling) is the perception, understanding, and reaction to the distress or need of another human being. Their definition of sympathy is the feeling that you care about and are sorry about someone else's trouble, grief, misfortune, etc. : a feeling of support for something: a state in which different people share the same interests, opinions, goals, etc.. See professor Paul Bloom on empathy.
2. any nerve of the sympathetic nervous system. sympathetic nervous system. the part of the autonomic nervous system whose preganglionic fibers arise from cell bodies in the thoracic and lumbar segments of the spinal cord; postganglionic fibers are distributed to the heart, smooth muscle, and glands of the entire body.