How much do concrete countertops cost? Concrete is a completely custom material, and as such it is priced on the high end of countertop materials, ranging from a retail price of about $70 to well over $100 per square foot and beyond. 
O.P. We are considering installing a polished concrete kitchen benchtop in our home as part of a major renovation. ............. it will be about 3500mm long by 900mm wide..... probably to be poured onsite..... intended that the whole benchtop will be one peice (ie the two vertical ends are formed up and poured at the same time as the top. Let us know what your experience with having a concrete bench top installed is
Concrete Nation specialises in making polished concrete kitchen bench tops, outdoor BBQ benchtops, bathroom vanities, vessel sinks, bathtubs, fireplace surrounds, furniture and much more using glass fibre reinforced concrete (GFRC). Everything is hand made in our Burleigh Heads, Gold Coast workshop and delivered to you. 
Cost of Manufacturing Concrete Countertops: The price of the concrete countertop is composed of the countertop design/construction, shipping (if required), and installation. Standard Cost | $65-$135 per square foot Cost for a standard 1.5 thick concrete countertop per square foot. View comparison chart of concrete countertop pricing vs. other countertop materials (such as granite, tile, etc.) Installation Cost | $40-$50/hr Installation is often a separate cost. Typical cost of installation done by the concrete contractor is charged by the hour, per person.
You should note that a concrete benchtop has to be thick-about 60mm. We bought a book Concrete Countertops by Fu-Tung Cheng (check his website) and used it as the reference for our kitchen benchtops. Our kitchen cupboards were built with the knowledge that a heavy benchtop was going ontop. So how did we go with our benchtop construction costs? That is over $1000 to set ourselves up (ready to make lots of benchtops). And that is less than $600 for the materials consumed to make one cooktop benchtop (1550*750mm) and a two-piece island benchtop (4000*700mm).
At Benchmark Benchtops Melbourne we specialise in concrete benchtops, concrete vanities, concrete sinks, concrete fireplace surrounds and other architectural elements, we pay attention to the fine details it takes to create quality custom concrete work. 
Polished Concrete Benchtops. Well, you get to the kitchen and think granite would be nice, or perhaps stainless steel. Then you get these options priced, at $3,000 for granite or $4,000 for stainless steel. Next, solid wood would be great, but also expensive. So how did we go with our benchtop construction costs? That is over $1000 to set ourselves up (ready to make lots of benchtops). And that is less than $600 for the materials consumed to make one cooktop benchtop (1550*750mm) and a two-piece island benchtop (4000*700mm).
Return to Concrete Countertops. The price of the concrete countertop is composed of the countertop design/construction, shipping (if required), and installation. Standard Cost | $65-$135 per square foot. Cost for a standard 1.5 thick concrete countertop per square foot. View comparison chart of concrete countertop pricing vs. other countertop materials (such as granite, tile, etc.) Installation Cost | $40-$50/hr Installation is often a separate cost. Typical cost of installation done by the concrete contractor is charged by the hour, per person.
For a better quality, textured surface laminate with rolled edges, you might pay up to $300 for the same length of benchtop. Off the shelf timber benchtops start at about $500 for a 2.4mX600mm length of mid-priced hardwood. At that price, the benchtop will be sanded but not be polished and shipping will be extra. Granite is generally the most expensive of the four, but some types of granite can be about the same cost as better quality engineered stone benchtops. If you're doing a DIY installation, you may be able to put together a flatpack kitchen and even hang the overhead cabinets.