State debts. State government agencies have the lowest priority when it comes to garnishing IRS refunds. Therefore, if you’re required to return unemployment compensation payments, or you have outstanding state income tax debts, your federal refund can be garnished to repay these obligations as well. If you overpay your income taxes and have an amount eligible for a refund, the state agency that governs your child support order has first claim to that refund if your support payments are unpaid. The state can continue to garnish tax refunds each year until all child support payment obligations are satisfied.
When the IRS processes your tax return and approves your refund, you can see your actual personalized refund date. Even though the IRS issues most refunds in less than 21 days after we receive your tax return, it’s possible your tax return may require additional review and take longer. What you need to check the status of your refund: If this application remains idle for 15 minutes, it displays a session expiration warning message in a popup or new browser window, allowing you to extend your session. The message gains focus and JAWS reads both the URL and the session expiration message.
Amended Tax Return Refunds. You should wait 3 weeks after you mailed your amended return before checking your amended tax return status. The online Where's my refund service does not keep track of amendment refunds, but you can check the IRS Where's My Amended Return tool on the IRS website. If you prepared and efiled your tax return on efile.com, and the amount of your direct deposit refund is lower than the refund calculated on your tax return, then your refund may have been adjusted, or offset, by the Treasury Offset Program (TOP).
But exactly when you need this service depends on how you filed your tax return. The IRS says you can find out exactly where in the system your return is within 24 hours after the agency has received your e-filed tax return. If you mailed your return, you must wait four weeks before you can track it via the online search tool. It allows taxpayers to check on the status of their tax refund. Once again, you'll need your Social Security number, filing status and expected refund amount to use IRS2Go. After you find out what's up with your refund, you can use the app to sign up for IRS tax updates or follow the IRS on social media.
Direct Deposit Refund. If you choose to receive your tax refund via direct bank deposit, your expected tax refund will be electronically transferred from the IRS (US Treasury) to the bank account you entered during your online tax return process at efile.com. This transfer is free of charge. If you prepared and efiled your tax return on efile.com, and the amount of your direct deposit refund is lower than the refund calculated on your tax return, then your refund may have been adjusted, or offset, by the Treasury Offset Program (TOP).
The refund schedule should be the same if you filed for a tax extension, however, there is no official schedule for tax refunds for amended tax returns. The above list only includes dates for e-filing an original tax return. Amended tax returns are processed manually, and often take 8-12 weeks to process. You can choose to receive your refund in a direct deposit (you can split your refund and have it sent to up to three banks), you can have a paper check sent to your home, or you can choose to buy US Savings Bonds with your tax refund. You can also apply a refund to any future taxes owed.