Appearance. A Koolie is often described as looking like a cross between a rough Collie and a border Collie, although it is rangier in build. Koolies were not bred for looks but for working ability, they come in a variety of colours, which include blue and red merle, solid red, black or grey. Eyes can be blue, brown, or black. 
|. The Koolie Club of Australia Inc. was formed in April 2000, by a small group of Koolie enthusiasts who wished to bring people together who had a common interest, to share knowledge and understanding of a wonderful breed of working dog. The Koolie Club of Australia Inc. has gone on to promote these talents, to educate potential purchasers of the talents and needs of their Koolies and also to welcome into their membership all who think in a like way and want to share good fellowship while promoting these ideals.
The Koolie or Coolie (also known as the Australian Koolie or by the misnomer German Koolie) is an Australian dog breed. The Koolie is a working or herding dog which has existed in Australia since the early 19th century when it was bred from imported British working dogs. The Koolie is a 'heading dog', one which has a natural instinct to cast out (i.e., circle widely), round sheep and bring them back to their owner.
Koolie's do shed. Exercise-These dogs are primarily a working dog and require plenty of exercise to keep their bodies fit and minds occupied. Regular exercise is extremely important and should preferably be off the lead in a safe environment. Health-This breed generally have very few health problems. 
However, most Koolie breeders refer to the Koolie as a breed rather than as a type, and assert that it breeds true, with various types or strains. The Koolie is a 'heading dog', one which has a natural instinct to cast out (i.e., circle widely), round sheep and bring them back to their owner.
Temperament. The Koolie is first and foremost a working breed, bred for stamina, endurance and to be biddable. Like all working breeds the Koolies natural trait is to herd anything that moves, this includes sheep, cattle, goats, horses, buffalo and fowl. Australian Koolie colours can be red or blue merle(patterned); solid (one colour) red/chocolate or black; bi (two colours) red and white, black and white, black and tan, red and tan; tricolor (three colours) including merle, normally with tan points and a white chest spot.
Koolie. The Koolie is a medium-sized dog of varying coat type, usually with a merled coat pattern. Koolies are typically slightly longer than tall and resemble a cross between a Border Collie and an Australian Cattle Dog, dogs with whom they likely share ancestry. The Koolie is thought to be descended from the same Collie types that were brought to Australia for the kennels of Thomas S. Hall; some believe that they are the direct descendents of Hall's dogs. This, if true, would make the Koolie the oldest of Australia's breeds.
Overview. Koolie/Coolie is an Australian dog breed also known as the Australian or German Koolie of which are wrong names. Iris a dog that was raised by the import of British working dogs. It has existed in Australia since the early 19th century and works by grazing sheep. The Koolie being a dog game, has the skills of grazing sheep where it has the natural instinct to round sheep and take them back to the owner. Koolies do vertical work and are known as dumb dogs. They are used for careful jobs at close range in time of shearing of wool from the sheep and also heading the sheep.
However, most Koolie breeders refer to the Koolie as a breed rather than as a type, and assert that breeds true, with various types or strains. The Koolie is a 'dog game', one that has a natural instinct to cast out (ie, a circle much), round sheep and bring them back to their owner. Koolies are known as dumb dogs, vertical work. They are used for heading sheep and also for quiet careful work at close range in time for delivery or shedding (cutting) sheep. No. Overview. The Koolie or Coolie [also known as the Australian Koolie or German Koolie wrong name [1]] is an Australian dog breed. The Koolie is a working dog or grazing that has existed in Australia since the early 19th century when it was raised by the import of British working dogs.