Common side effects of budesonide inhalation suspension include: runny nose, respiratory infections, coughing, earaches, itchy throat and diarrhea. More serious side effects that require a doctor's attention include: Call your doctor if your child experiences signs of an allergic reaction after using budesonide inhalation suspension, such as hives or an itchy rash. Call 911 for difficulty breathing or swelling of the mouth, lips, tongue or throat
(budesonide) Inhalation suspension. Budesonide, the active component of PULMICORT RESPULES® (budesonide inhalation suspension) , is a corticosteroid designated chemically as (RS)-11β, 16α, 17, 21-tetrahydroxypregna-1, 4-diene-3, 20dione cyclic 16, 17-acetal with butyraldehyde. Budesonide is provided as a mixture of two epimers (22R and 22S)
When switching from using an oral steroid to budesonide inhalation suspension to control your child's asthma symptoms, follow your doctor's advice, as there are some health risks while the body works to produce natural steroids. 1  pain in your child's bones, ears or joints. 2  fainting or weakness. 3  more wheezing than normal. More serious side effects that require a doctor's attention include: Call your doctor if your child experiences signs of an allergic reaction after using budesonide inhalation suspension, such as hives or an itchy rash. Call 911 for difficulty breathing or swelling of the mouth, lips, tongue or throat
1 Pulmicort Respules™(budesonide inhalation suspension)0.25 mg and 0.5 mg Rx only For inhalation use via compressed air driven jet nebulizers only (not for use with ultrasonicdevices). Not for injection. Read patient instructions before using. 
Patients randomized to budesonide inhalation suspension (BIS) receive 2 nebulized albuterol sulfate (5mg/mL) doses (2mL =10mg for patients over 20kg, 1.5mL =7.5mg for patients 10-20kg) mixed with 8mL (2mg) of BIS(0.5mg/2mL). The purpose of this study is to determine whether the addition of budesonide inhalation suspension (BIS) to the standard therapy of albuterol, ipratropium bromide, and systemic corticosteroids (SCS) for moderate to severe asthma flares in children reduces asthma severity more rapidly than standard therapy alone.
Budesonide inhalation comes in two forms -- the budesonide inhalation, and budesonide inhalation suspension that is inhaled using a nebulizer (a device that changes liquid medications into fine droplets that are inhaled into the lungs). Inhaled steroids go directly into the lungs and help to decrease the inflammation of airways that makes asthma attacks more likely. Because budesonide inhalation does not work quickly, it should not be used for treating an asthma attack. Rather, it is used once or twice a day in order to prevent asthma attacks.
Budesonide is a steroid. It prevents the release of substances in the body that cause inflammation. Budesonide inhalation is used to prevent asthma attacks. It will not treat an asthma attack that has already begun. Budesonide may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Because budesonide inhalation is inhaled directly into the lungs, the rest of the body is exposed to lower steroid levels, compared to steroids taken by mouth. This helps reduce or eliminate many of the side effects associated with long-term steroid use. Inhaled steroids go directly into the lungs and help to decrease the inflammation of airways that makes asthma attacks more likely. Because budesonide inhalation does not work quickly, it should not be used for treating an asthma attack. Rather, it is used once or twice a day in order to prevent asthma attacks.
This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088. Read the Pulmicort Respules (budesonide inhalation suspension) Side Effects Center for a complete guide to possible side effects. Budesonide inhalation is used to prevent asthma attacks. It will not treat an asthma attack that has already begun. Budesonide may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide.