Micronutrient (iron, manganese, zinc, copper, boron and molybdenum) nutrition is different from managing macronutrients, such as nitrogen, in three fundamental ways.
1 Our bodies absorb iron when we eat a diet filled with iron-rich foods, such as leafy vegetables, beans and proteins like meat, fish and poultry. 2  Similar to other important micronutrients, many of the foods that contain iron are hard to come by for people living in poverty.
Micronutrient deficiency is a lack of essential vitamins and minerals required in small amounts by the body for proper growth and development.
Macronutrients include Carbon, Oxygen, Hydrogen, and Nitrogen. Micronutrients are chlorine, iron, maganese, zinc, boron, sodium, copper, molybdenum and nickel. Plants need the … se nutrients to survive. Macronutrients mainly include carbohydrates, proteins and fats and also water which are required in large quantities and their main function being the release of energy in body.
Macronutrients are the nutrients needed by plants in larger quantities like potassium, nitrogen, oxygen, etc. Micronutrients are the nutrients needed by plants in smaller quan … tities like magnesium and molybdenum.
Iron is an important micronutrient that ensures the development of normal red blood cells and healthy immune function. Iron deficiency is the most common and widespread nutritional deficiency in the world – affecting the very poor, especially women – and is the cause of about half of all cases of anaemia.
Deficiencies in micronutrients such as iron, iodine, vitamin A, folate and zinc can have devastating consequences. At least half of children worldwide ages 6 months to 5 years suffer from one or more micronutrient deficiency, and globally more than 2 billion people are affected 2.
WHY IRON. Iron is an important micronutrient that ensures the development of normal red blood cells and healthy immune function. Iron deficiency is the most common and widespread nutritional deficiency in the world – affecting the very poor, especially women – and is the cause of about half of all cases of anaemia.