Introduction. From time-to-time, horse owners and veterinarians see equine recurrent uveitis, also known as periodic ophthalmia or moon blindness, in horses. Horse owners will see this as a painful eye. Painful eyes result from either damage or disease to the cornea or to the uvea (iris, ciliary body and choroid). From time-to-time, horse owners and veterinarians see equine recurrent uveitis, also known as periodic ophthalmia or moon blindness, in horses. Horse owners will see this as a painful eye
Additional Information. The bacterial organism leptospira is associated with some cases of recurrent equine uveitis (aka moon blindness). Blood tests, cultures, etc., can be done however the cause of ERU is not always identifiable. There is also an immune-mediated component to the disease. It is associated in some cases with leptospira bacteria, it also has an immune-mediated component. Uveitis can be sub clinical where no outward signs are seen until the horse turns up blind in one or both eyes. Uveitis can be very painful, and can effect one or both eyes, usually in time both eyes are affected.
Amber Labelle, DVM, then gave a brief overview of the suspected causes and mechanisms of equine recurrent uveitis (ERU or moon blindness), including a novel surgical therapy using Suprachoroidal Cyclosporine A Implants. Dwyer and Labelle agreed ERU is a very frustrating disease to treat. 
The bacterial organism leptospira is associated with some cases of recurrent equine uveitis (aka moon blindness). Blood tests, cultures, etc., can be done however the cause of ERU is not always identifiable. It is associated in some cases with leptospira bacteria, it also has an immune-mediated component. Uveitis can be sub clinical where no outward signs are seen until the horse turns up blind in one or both eyes. Uveitis can be very painful, and can effect one or both eyes, usually in time both eyes are affected.
(Horses). (Equine). Equine Recurrent Uveitis (ERU – also called periodic ophthalmia or moon blindness) is one of the oldest and most common, recurrent form of eye inflammation that can have a devastating effect because it is the leading cause of blindness among horses. 
(Periodic ophthalmia, Moon blindness, Equine uveitis). Equine recurrent uveitis (ERU) is an important ophthalmic condition with a reported prevalence of 2%–25% worldwide. ERU is an autoimmune syndrome that ensues after an initial episode of acute uveitis. Although not every horse with a single bout of uveitis will develop ERU, horses that have experienced acute uveitis are at risk of developing ERU for several years after the primary episode.
Leptospira can cause of abortion in mares, and despite extensive clinical research, the etiology of equine recurrent uveitis (ERU) is still unknown. Equine recurrent uveitis, is an important ocular disease and the most common cause of blindness in horses and mules world wide. It is associated in some cases with leptospira bacteria, it also has an immune-mediated component. Uveitis can be sub clinical where no outward signs are seen until the horse turns up blind in one or both eyes. Uveitis can be very painful, and can effect one or both eyes, usually in time both eyes are affected.
Equine recurrent (periodic) uveitis (moon blindness, recurrent iridocyclitis) is an acute, nongranulomatous inflammation of the uveal tract of the eye, occurring commonly in horses of all breeds, worldwide. The causative factor is not known, but several pathogeneses have been suggested. 
Equine Recurrent Uveitis (ERU) or moon blindness is an inflammation of the inside of the eye. It is associated in some cases with leptospira bacteria, it also has an immune-mediated component. Uveitis can be sub clinical where no outward signs are seen until the horse turns up blind in one or both eyes. Uveitis can be very painful, and can effect one or both eyes, usually in time both eyes are affected.