No, it is a Group 7 element or halogen. This makes it a non  metal.  Non metals are often negatively charged. Groups 1, 2 3A and  transitions are pretty much considered met … al, and have something in  common, a positive charge. Fluorine has a -1 charge, it prefers to  take an electron to fill it's outer orbital . 
Fluorine is NOT a metal, it is a gas. In fact fluorine is a very  highly reactive gas that corrodes most metals quite rapidly. No, it is a Group 7 element or halogen. This makes it a non metal. Non metals are often negatively charged. Groups 1, 2 3A and transitions are pretty much considered metal, and have something in common, a positive charge.
Fluorine is a halogen and a non metal placed in group 17 of the p-block elements. It shows the largest electronegativity among all elements. It can display a number of unique characteristics that impart unusual partitioning properties in both model systems and the environment. 
Fluorine is the most reactive and the most electronegative of all the elements. Fluorine is a pale yellow, diatomic, highly corrosive, flammable gas, with a pungent odor. Harmful effects: Fluorine is highly toxic and corrosive. Characteristics: Fluorine is the most reactive and the most electronegative of all the elements. Fluorine is a pale yellow, diatomic, highly corrosive, flammable gas, with a pungent odor. It is the lightest halogen. It reacts violently with water to produce oxygen and the extremely corrosive hydrofluoric acid
Report Abuse. Fluorine is the most reactive non-metal because it is the most electronegative of all of the non-metal elements of the periodic table. Simply put, this means that out of all of the non-metal elements, Fluorine is the most likely to attract electrons. larkinfan11 · 9 years ago. Thumbs up. 
As the most electronegative element, it is extremely reactive: almost all other elements, including some noble gases, form compounds with fluorine. Among the elements, fluorine ranks 24th in universal abundance and 13th in terrestrial abundance. At room temperature, fluorine is a gas of diatomic molecules, pale yellow when pure (but sometimes described as yellow-green). It has a characteristic pungent odor detectable at 20 ppb. Fluorine condenses into a bright yellow liquid at −188 °C (−306 °F), a transition temperature similar to those of oxygen and nitrogen.
Fluorine (symbol F) is the chemical element with atomic number 9. It is the lightest halogen. At standard pressure and temperature, fluorine is a pale yellow gas composed of diatomic molecules, F2. Fluorine is the most electronegative element and is extremely reactive, requiring great care in handling. 
Fluorine: the essentials. Fluorine is a Group 17 element. Fluorine is the most electronegative and reactive of all elements. It is a pale yellow, corrosive gas, which reacts with practically all organic and inorganic substances. Finely divided metals, glass, ceramics, carbon, and even water burn in fluorine with a bright flame. Fluorine may be recovered with difficulty as a highly reactive and corrosive pale yellow gas by electrolysis of hot molten mixtures (1:2) of potassium fluoride (KF) and hydrogen fluoride (HF). The electrolyte is corrosive, so is the product. Grease must be avoided because of the fire hazard.
Discovered by: Henri Moissan of France. Description: Named from the Latin word meaning to flow, fluorine is a corrosive, pale yellow gas. It is the most reactive of all the elements, so much so that a jet of fluorine gas streamed over wood or rubber would cause either to burst into flame. Its very active chemistry makes fluorine useful in many products, such as polymers, pesticides, antibiotics and toothpastes. 