Morris is a very popular first name for men (#278 out of 1220, Top 23%) and also a very popular surname for both adults and children (#56 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Morris for boys. Morris /mor-ris/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced MOR-iss. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Morris is  dark-skinned, Moorish. Anglicization of Maurice. Choreographer Mark Morris. Kreatif forms: Miris, Morce, Morrisce.
Shared by almost 90,000 people, Morris is the 32nd most popular surname in the UK. There are also over 3,000 people with Morris as their given name – and 184 people since the start of civil registration who have had the misfortune to be christened Morris Morris. Morris. In the spotlight for the third article in our new series on surname etymology is the name Morris, whose so-named hail chiefly from Wales and the Welsh/English border. There are two major schools of thought on the origin of the name – it is thought to derive from either Southern Europe or from Wales.
Recorded in many forms including Morse, Morst, Morest, Morrist, Moorse, Mooriss and Moorst, this is a British Isles surname of great antiquity. It is dialectal of the popular personal name Morris, widespread in England, Wales, Scotland and Ireland. 
Origin of the name Morris: Variant of Maurice, a borrowing from the French which is derived from the Late Latin Mauritius (Moorish), a derivative of Maurus (a Moor). 
Morris is a surname of various origins though mostly of English, Irish, Scottish and Welsh origin. The name in some cases can be of German origin and even an Americanization of several Jewish surnames. The surname ranked 53 out of 88,799 in the United States and 32 out of 500 in England and Wales. In England and Scotland, the name can be derived from the Old French personal name Maurice which was introduced to Britain by the Normans. It can also be derived from the Latin Mauritius, a derivative of Maurus. This name was used by several early Christian saints.
English Meaning: The name Morris is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Morris is: Son of More. American Meaning: The name Morris is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Morris is: Son of More. Latin Meaning: The name Morris is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Morris is: Moorish; dark-skinned; swarthy. 
2) Possibly a modern form of the ancient Irish name O'Muirgheasa.. Morris is the 56th most popular surname in the United States. Morris is also popular in England, coming in as the 32nd most common surname. Surname Origin:
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Morrison is an English-language surname. The name is derived from a patronymic form of the English Morris. The personal name Morris is a variant of Maurice, and was quite popular in the Middle Ages. In Scotland the surname is sometimes also an Anglicised form of the Scottish Gaelic MacGilleMhuire, a surname meaning son of the servant of (the Virgin) Mary. 