This center is located just above the brain stem and secretes hormones that help regulate body temperature. It is this part of your body that orchestrates the many functions that help to control body temperature. All of the autonomic responses of our bodies are controlled by the hypothalamus. It processes the sensory input that the body receives and passes it to the correct area of the brain and body for action. It is this part of your brain that allows you to feel both hot and cold.
The hypothalamus is the main neural control center (brain part that controls endocrine glands). The pituitary gland lies just below the hypothalamus. The pituitary gland is a small endocrine gland that secretes a variety of hormones (organic chemicals that regulate the body's physiological processes). At the rear of the brain is the cerebellum. The cerebellum is similar to the cerebrum: each has hemispheres that control the opposite side of the body and are covered by gray matter and surface folds. In the cerebellum, the folds are called folia; in the cerebrum, sulci.
The Thalamus is THE relay station in the brain. Most of the sensory signals, auditory (sound), Visual, Somatosensory (from your skin and internal organs), go through this organ on their way to other parts of the brain for processing. It also plays a function in motor control. The Limbic System sometimes called the emotional brain or Old Mammalian Brain is the next part of the brain to have evolved in the more primitive mammals about 150 million years ago.
This portion of the brain is located in the cerebral hemisphere. Hypothalamus: The hypothalamus region of the brain controls mood, thirst, hunger and temperature. It also contains glands which control the hormonal processes throughout the body. The brain is made up of nerve cells which interact with the rest of the body through the spinal cord and nervous system. These cells relate information back to specific centers of the brain where it can be processed and an appropriate reaction can be generated.
The brain controls thoughts, memory and speech, arm and leg movements, and the function of many organs within the body. It also determines how people respond to stressful situations (i.e. writing of an exam, loss of a job, birth of a child, illness, etc.) by regulating heart and breathing rates. Cerebrum – The cerebrum, which forms the major portion of the brain, is divided into two major parts: the right and left cerebral hemispheres. The cerebrum is a term often used to describe the entire brain.
1 This middle area of the brain can also be used to relay information from the sense of touch, including pain or pressure which is affecting different portions of the body. 2  Motor Cortex-This helps the brain monitor and control movement throughout the body. 3  It is located in the top, middle portion of the brain. The brain is made up of nerve cells which interact with the rest of the body through the spinal cord and nervous system. These cells relate information back to specific centers of the brain where it can be processed and an appropriate reaction can be generated.
The cerebrum is the largest part of the brain and is composed of right and left hemispheres. It performs higher functions like interpreting touch, vision and hearing, as well as speech, reasoning, emotions, learning, and fine control of movement. The cerebellum is located under the cerebrum. The brain communicates with the body through the spinal cord and twelve pairs of cranial nerves (Fig. 6). Ten of the twelve pairs of cranial nerves that control hearing, eye movement, facial sensations, taste, swallowing and movement of the face, neck, shoulder and tongue muscles originate in the brainstem.
The brain is the most complex organ in the body. It is the organ that allows us to think, have emotions, move, and even dream. Given this complexity, it should not be surprising that there are many ways to separate the parts of the brain. The Limbic System sometimes called the emotional brain or Old Mammalian Brain is the next part of the brain to have evolved in the more primitive mammals about 150 million years ago.
1 THE CEREBRUM – control center of the brain. 2  Largest and most prominent part of the human brain.Brain is the cerebrum 85% OF THE WEIGHT OF HUMAN BRAIN. 3  Responsible for all voluntary activities of the body,site of INTELLIGENCE,LEARNING AND JUDGEMENT. 1 THE BRAIN AND FIVE SENSES BRAIN-responsible for overseeing the daily operations of the human body and for interpreting the vast amount of information recieves.the adult human body brain weighs an average of 1.4 kg or about 2% of the total body weight. 2  2.