: a compound that is administered usually in the form of its dihydrochloride C21H27ClN2O2·2HCl or pamoate C21H27ClN2O2·C23H16O6 and is used as an antihistamine and tranquilizer—see vistaril. Definition of HYDROXYZINE. : a compound C21H27ClN2O2 used as an antihistamine and tranquilizer.
• HYDROXYZINE (noun). The noun HYDROXYZINE has 1 sense: 1. a drug (trade names Atarax and Vistaril) used as a tranquilizer to treat anxiety and motion sickness. Familiarity information: HYDROXYZINE used as a noun is very rare. Hypernyms (hydroxyzine is a kind of...): antianxiety drug; anxiolytic; anxiolytic drug; minor tranquilizer; minor tranquilliser; minor tranquillizer (a tranquilizer used to relieve anxiety and reduce tension and irritability).
Hydroxyzine (/haɪˈdrɒksɨziːn/ ; sold as Vistaril, Atarax) is a first-generation antihistamine of the diphenylmethane and piperazine class. It was first synthesized by Union Chimique Belge in 1956 and was marketed by Pfizer in the United States later the same year, and is still in widespread use today. Hydroxyzine has also been used to potentiate the analgesia of opioids and to alleviate some of their side effects, such as itching, nausea, and vomiting.
Uses. Hydroxyzine is used to treat itching caused by allergies. It is an antihistamine and works by blocking a certain natural substance (histamine) that your body makes during an allergic reaction. Hydroxyzine may also be used short-term to treat anxiety or to help you feel sleepy/relaxed before and after surgery. Before taking hydroxyzine, tell your doctor or pharmacist if you are allergic to it; or to cetirizine; or to levocetirizine; or if you have any other allergies. This product may contain inactive ingredients, which can cause allergic reactions or other problems. Talk to your pharmacist for more details.
Synonyms: Atarax; hydroxyzine; hydroxyzine hydrochloride; Vistaril. Hypernyms (hydroxyzine is a kind of...): antianxiety drug; anxiolytic; anxiolytic drug; minor tranquilizer; minor tranquilliser; minor tranquillizer (a tranquilizer used to relieve anxiety and reduce tension and irritability).
Hydroxyzine reduces activity in the central nervous system. It also acts as an antihistamine that reduces the natural chemical histamine in the body. Histamine can produce symptoms of sneezing and runny nose, or hives on the skin. Hydroxyzine is used as a sedative to treat anxiety and tension. It is also used together with other medications given for anesthesia. Hydroxyzine may also be used to control nausea and vomiting. Hydroxyzine is also used to treat allergic skin reactions such as hives or contact dermatitis. Hydroxyzine may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide
In other cases, the usage of hydroxyzine is as a form of non-barbiturate tranquilizer used in the pre-operative sedation and treatment of neurological disorders, such as psychoneurosis and other forms of anxiety or tension states. Hydroxyzine has also been used to potentiate the analgesia of opioids and to alleviate some of their side effects, such as itching, nausea, and vomiting.
Last reviewed on RxList 4/24/2015. Vistaril (hydroxyzine pamoate) is an antihistamine with anticholinergic (drying) and sedative properties used as a sedative to treat anxiety and tension. It is also used together with other medications given for anesthesia. Stop using hydroxyzine and call your doctor at once if you have a serious side effect such as: 1  restless muscle movements in your eyes, tongue, jaw, or neck; 2  tremor (uncontrolled shaking); 3  confusion; or. 4  seizure (convulsions).
Vistaril is the brand name for hydroxyzine pamoate, a prescription drug used to treat: 1  Anxiety and tension. 2  Nausea and vomiting. 3  Severe itching (pruritus) from allergic conditions, such as chronic hives (urticaria) and contact dermatitis. You should not use Vistaril if you are allergic or sensitive to hydroxyzine. As with other antihistamines, you should not drive a car or operate dangerous machinery while taking Vistaril, as the drug can make you drowsy.