Individual doses of Lexapro can range from 10 mg to 20 mg once a day. For elderly people or people with liver problems, the maximum dose is 10 mg once daily. For people who are taking Lexapro for the treatment of depression or generalized anxiety disorder, dosage recommendations typically range from 10 mg to 20 mg once a day.
Escitalopram is the S-isomer of citalopram. The antidepressant activity of citalopram is limited to the S-isomer; therefore, each row of Table 1 shows equally effective doses of citalopram and escitalopram. The maximum recommended dose of escitalopram is 20 mg once daily.
Adolescents. The recommended dose of Lexapro is 10 mg once daily. A flexible-dose trial of Lexapro (10 to 20 mg/day) demonstrated the effectiveness of Lexapro [see Clinical Studies ]. If the dose is increased to 20 mg, this should occur after a minimum of three weeks. Adults.
The recommended dose of Lexapro is 10 mg once daily. A fixed-dose trial of Lexapro demonstrated the effectiveness of both 10 mg and 20 mg of Lexapro, but failed to demonstrate a greater benefit of 20 mg over 10 mg [see Clinical Studies ]. If the dose is increased to 20 mg, this should occur after a minimum of one week. The recommended dose of Lexapro is 10 mg once daily. A flexible-dose trial of Lexapro (10 to 20 mg/day) demonstrated the effectiveness of Lexapro [see Clinical Studies ]. If the dose is increased to 20 mg, this should occur after a minimum of three weeks. Adults.
In general, people will take escitalopram for several months or longer. Individual dosages of escitalopram can range from 10 mg to 20 mg once a day. For elderly people or people with liver problems, the maximum dose of escitalopram is escitalopram 10 mg once daily. Your healthcare provider will typically start you on an escitalopram dose of 10 mg once daily for the treatment of depression or generalized anxiety disorder.
Escitalopram Dosage Recommendations. The recommended starting dosage of escitalopram for adults or adolescents (age 12 to 17 years old) with depression or adults with generalized anxiety disorder is escitalopram 10 mg once a day. Your healthcare provider will typically start you on an escitalopram dose of 10 mg once daily for the treatment of depression or generalized anxiety disorder.
1 The maximum recommended dose of citalopram is 20 mg per day for patients older than 60 years of age. 2  Citalopram should be discontinued in patients who are found to have persistent QTc measurements greater than 500 ms. The antidepressant activity of citalopram is limited to the S-isomer; therefore, each row of Table 1 shows equally effective doses of citalopram and escitalopram. The maximum recommended dose of escitalopram is 20 mg once daily.
Dosing Recommendations for Lexapro. The recommended starting dose of Lexapro for adults or adolescents (age 12 to 17 years old) with depression or adults with generalized anxiety disorder is 10 mg once a day. Your healthcare provider may choose to increase the dose if symptoms continue, or decrease it if side effects occur. For people who are taking Lexapro for the treatment of depression or generalized anxiety disorder, dosage recommendations typically range from 10 mg to 20 mg once a day.
For all patients, 10 mg/day is the recommended starting dose of LEXAPRO. 10 mg/day is also the maintenance dose for many patients. If the dose is increased to 20 mg/day, this should occur after a minimum of 1 week. LEXAPRO can be taken morning or evening once daily, with or without food. Your doctor may suggest a decrease in dosage if you experience side effects that do not go away after approximately 2 weeks. 