A transformer is an electrical device that transfers electrical energy between two or more circuits through electromagnetic induction. Electromagnetic induction produces an electromotive force across a conductor which is exposed to time varying magnetic fields. Commonly, transformers are used to increase or decrease the voltages of alternating current in electric power applications. A varying current in the transformer's primary winding creates a varying magnetic flux in the transformer core and a varying magnetic field impinging on the transformer's secondary winding.
The two coils are referred to as the primary coil and the secondary coil. The basic function of the transformer is to convert the incoming power to a different output power. Basically, it pumps up the voltage that goes out of the transformer. To do so, a varying current will go through the primary coil and create a varying magnetic flux in the core. Each transformer is based on two principles. The first is that an electric current runs through the primary coil to create the necessary magnetic field. The second is that a varying magnetic field exists in the secondary coil, which creates a voltage across the ends of that coil.
A transformer converts alternating current (AC) from one voltage to another voltage. It has no moving parts and works on a magnetic induction principle; it can be designed to step-up or step-down voltage. So a step up transformer increases the voltage and a step down transformer decreases the voltage. With a step up transformer or step down transformer the voltage ratio between primary and secondary will mirror the turns ratio (except for single phase smaller than 1 kva which have compensated secondaries). A practical application of this 2 to 1 turns ratio would be a 480 to 240 voltage step down
A transformer is an electrical device that takes electricity of one voltage and changes it into another voltage. You'll see transformers at the top of utility poles and even changing the voltage in a toy train set. Basically, a transformer changes electricity from high to low voltage using two properties of electricity. In an electric circuit, there is magnetism around it. So, the electricity is stepped-down to a lower level using a transformer. This lower voltage electricity is put into the local electric wires at a substation. The substation breaks the larger amount of power down into smaller pieces at lower voltage. It then is stepped down again and again.
A step-up transformer is one whose secondary voltage is greater than its primary voltage. This kind of transformer steps up the voltage applied to it. For instance, a step up transformer is needed to use a 220v product in a country with a 110v supply. With a step up transformer or step down transformer the voltage ratio between primary and secondary will mirror the turns ratio (except for single phase smaller than 1 kva which have compensated secondaries). A practical application of this 2 to 1 turns ratio would be a 480 to 240 voltage step down
That's almost like the coils in a transformer. Except that transformers work with AC. In a transformer, when you power the primary winding with AC (alternating current), it transfers energy to the secondary winding with the magnetic field. The primary and secondary windings aren't physically connected, but the energy is transferred between them with the magnetic field. A transfomer as it said transforms the voltage to another voltage using a magnet and two parallel coils of wire the first coil is where the suply will be connected the other which have a smaller number as a coil is the voltage drop coil for example this trans is 240/12 V
A second type of transformer is the current transformer. It changes amount of current being drawn across a wire, say from 200 amps to 0.5 amps. These are widely used in the meters that measure the electricity used at large manufacturing plants. A meter to measure a multi-thousand ampere load would be incredibly large. If you want to INCREASE the voltage, you use a transformer with fewer primary windings and more secondary windings. The ratio of input and output voltages is directly proportional to the ratio of windings: e_out = (n/m)*e_in where n is the number of secondary windings and m is the number of prim