Published on Aug 10, 2013. Visit http://www.InsideTheMagic.net for more from the 2013 D23 Expo! During the Walt Disney Animation Studios presentation at the 2013 D23 Expo, the finale included a performance from Idina Menzel debuting a new song from the upcoming film Frozen, called Let It Go.
―Demi Lovato.  Let It Go  is a song from Disney 's 2013 animated feature film Frozen, with music and lyrics composed by Kristen Anderson-Lopez and Robert Lopez. The song was performed in the film by American actress and singer Idina Menzel in her role as Queen Elsa. Trivia.  1 Let It Go is the first solo sung by a Disney Princess who is the deuteragonist of the film. 2  Although Jasmine did have a solo in Aladdin, it was cut. 3  The song won the Academy Award for Best Original Song, being the first one from a Walt Disney Animation Studios-produced film in 14 years to win it.
The song Let It Go was written for her by Kristen Anderson-Lopez and Robert Lopez and it is just perfect for her. For those of you who love to sing along here are the Frozen Let It Go lyrics for the Idina Menzel version of the song from the movie: The snow glows white on the mountain tonight, not a footprint to be seen. A kingdom of isolation and it looks like I’m the queen. The wind is howling like this swirling storm inside. One of the best loved songs from Disney’s Frozen is “Let It Go” which is performed in the movie by the actress who voices Elsa, Idina Menzel. The music and lyrics for Frozen and Let It Go were composed by Kristen Anderson-Lopez and Robert Lopez.
The decision to release a single for Let It Go, was made after the song was written and was presented to Disney. Kristen Anderson-Lopez and Robert Lopez selected American singer and former Disney Channel star Demi Lovato, who is part of Disney's Hollywood Records roster, to cover the song on the soundtrack album. Trivia.  1 Let It Go is the first solo sung by a Disney Princess who is the deuteragonist of the film. 2  Although Jasmine did have a solo in Aladdin, it was cut. 3  The song won the Academy Award for Best Original Song, being the first one from a Walt Disney Animation Studios-produced film in 14 years to win it.
1 Like most of the other songs from Frozen, Let It Go has been subjected to numerous parodies on YouTube and the Internet in general.  2 Let It Go is the first end credits Disney song that was performed by a Disney Channel star. Trivia.  1 Let It Go is the first solo sung by a Disney Princess who is the deuteragonist of the film. 2  Although Jasmine did have a solo in Aladdin, it was cut. 3  The song won the Academy Award for Best Original Song, being the first one from a Walt Disney Animation Studios-produced film in 14 years to win it.
In this clip from Disney's Frozen, Elsa, whose secret powers have just been revealed, flees Arendelle and unleashes her magic, creating a breathtaking ice palace. Performed by the voice of Elsa, Idina Menzel, Let It Go is an original song by Kristen Anderson-Lopez and Tony Award®-winner Robert Lopez. Get the soundtrack now on iTunes: http://di.sn/sH2. Like Frozen on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/DisneyFrozen.
​Let It Go  is a song written by Robert Lopez and Kristen Anderson-Lopez, and sung by Elsa (Idina Menzel) in the 2013 Disney animated film, Frozen. 
One of the highlights, as we stated in our Frozen review, of Disney’s latest film is the sure to be Oscar winner for Best Song, Let it Go, sung by star Idina Menzel. Disney has released the entire song, and scene for that matter, where Menzel belts out the instant classic. 