Oven Bake. Cook whole sweet potatoes just like you would make baked potatoes. Prick each washed potato several times with a fork, wrap each one in foil and bake them for about 40 to 60 minutes in an oven preheated to 400 degrees Fahrenheit. Exact cooking time will depend on the size of the sweet potatoes; they're done when you can easily cut into them and their flesh is soft. 
Confidence votes 3.2K. To bake a sweet potato in a microwave is simple to do but the timing depends on the size of the potato and the power of the microwave. For average measures on both these, try about 8 minutes on high. Let it sit for about 10 minutes afterwards, as it will continue to cook
Put the plate in the microwave and select a cooking time. Cooking times will vary depending on the size of the potato and the power of the microwave. Most medium to large potatoes will take between 8-12 minutes to cook at full power. 1  Try putting the potato in for 5 minutes to begin with, then take it out and turn it over so that both sides cook evenly. 2  Place it back in the microwave for another 3-5 minutes, depending on how soft it is already. 1 If you are cooking multiple potatoes at once, you will need to increase the cooking time by about two-thirds. 2  For example, if one large potato takes 10 minutes to cook, two large potatoes would take between 16-17 minutes.
1 If you prefer crispy skinned sweet potatoes, you can cook the potatoes in the microwave for 5-6 minutes, then unwrap your sweep potato and transfer it to a baking sheet and bake in an oven preheated to 400 °F (204 °C) for 20 minutes. 1 If you are cooking multiple potatoes at once, you will need to increase the cooking time by about two-thirds. 2  For example, if one large potato takes 10 minutes to cook, two large potatoes would take between 16-17 minutes.
Quick boil by adding 1-inch thick slices to a skillet with 2 inches of boiling water; cook for about 12 minutes. Steam 1-inch slices over simmering water. Microwave whole sweet potatoes for 5 to 8 minutes rotating halfway through. Microwave whole sweet potato for 4 minutes, then bake at 450° for 5 to 10 minutes. Cut sweet potato in half lengthwise and grill 20 to 25 minutes until tender and crisp. To cook sweet potatoes, pierce their skin several times with a fork and bake at 400° for 40-50 minutes or until fork tender. 1  Recipe: Simple Baked Sweet Potato.
1 Try putting the potato in for 5 minutes to begin with, then take it out and turn it over so that both sides cook evenly. 2  Place it back in the microwave for another 3-5 minutes, depending on how soft it is already. 1 If you are cooking multiple potatoes at once, you will need to increase the cooking time by about two-thirds. 2  For example, if one large potato takes 10 minutes to cook, two large potatoes would take between 16-17 minutes.
A quick way to have cooked sweet potatoes is to prick them with a knife or fork several times, then pop them into the microwave. Small sweet potatoes (5-inches long, 2-inches in diameter) take about 3 to 4 minutes to become soft in the microwave. 
1 For example, if one large potato takes 10 minutes to cook, two large potatoes would take between 16-17 minutes. 2  If you prefer crispy skinned potatoes, you can cook the potatoes in the microwave for 5-6 minutes, then transfer to a baking sheet and bake in an oven preheated to 400 °F (204 °C) for 20 minutes. 1
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Of course it depends on the size of the potato. I prick mine all over with a fork. Wrap in plastic wrap and for a medium size (say about 8 inches long fairly thick) I microwave for about 8-10 minutes. Then I take it out and check and return for an addition couple of minutes if it still feels hard when I stick it with a knife.
Report Abuse. How to Cook a Sweet Potato in the Microwave Step1 Scrub sweet potato with a vegetable brush and water. Step2 Use a fork or small knife to poke holes in the sweet potato. Step3 Place the sweet potato in the microwave and use the baked potato setting. I prick mine all over with a fork. Wrap in plastic wrap and for a medium size (say about 8 inches long fairly thick) I microwave for about 8-10 minutes. Then I take it out and check and return for an addition couple of minutes if it still feels hard when I stick it with a knife.