An internal organ called the mantle secretes calcium carbonate so that as the inner invertebrate grows, the outer shell provides a roomier home. Many bivalve species play important roles in aquatic and marine ecosystems by filtering the water and serving as habitat and prey for a variety of sea life. A roughfile clam from the Flower Garden Bank National Marine Sanctuary—just one of many different bivalve mollusk species. Like fish, bivalve mollusks breathe through their gills. As filter feeders, bivalves gather food through their gills. Some bivalves have a pointed, retractable foot that protrudes from the shell and digs into the surrounding sediment, effectively enabling the creature to move or burrow. Bivalves even make their own shells
Bivalves include clams, oysters, cockles, mussels, scallops, and numerous other families that live in saltwater, as well as a number of families that live in freshwater. The majority are filter feeders. The gills have evolved into ctenidia, specialised organs for feeding and breathing. Most bivalves are filter feeders, using their gills to capture particulate food such as phytoplankton from the water. The protobranchs feed in a different way, scraping detritus from the seabed, and this may be the original mode of feeding used by all bivalves before the gills became adapted for filter feeding.
The shell of a bivalve is composed of calcium carbonate, and consists of two, usually similar, parts called valves. These are joined together along one edge (the hinge line) by a flexible ligament that, usually in conjunction with interlocking teeth on each of the valves, forms the hinge. Most bivalves are filter feeders, using their gills to capture particulate food such as phytoplankton from the water. The protobranchs feed in a different way, scraping detritus from the seabed, and this may be the original mode of feeding used by all bivalves before the gills became adapted for filter feeding.
The molluscs or mollusks /ˈmɒləsks/ compose the large phylum of invertebrate animals known as the Mollusca. Around 85,000 extant species of molluscs are recognized. Molluscs are the largest marine phylum, comprising about 23% of all the named marine organisms. 
The Bivalvia, in previous centuries referred to as the Lamellibranchiata and Pelecypoda, comprise a class of marine and freshwater molluscs that have laterally compressed bodies enclosed by a shell consisting of two hinged parts. Most bivalves are filter feeders, using their gills to capture particulate food such as phytoplankton from the water. The protobranchs feed in a different way, scraping detritus from the seabed, and this may be the original mode of feeding used by all bivalves before the gills became adapted for filter feeding.
Abstract. The growth of bivalve gills proceeds at the posterior end of the gill from a meristem-like budding zone, that is, an undifferentiated terminal organ, which continuously proliferates new gill elements in growing bivalves. This simple gill structure is distinct from the more complex gills in the rest of the bivalves. Based on morphological and molecular data sets, the Protobranchia are therefore considered to be a sister group to the other bivalves, which are grouped as Autobranchia (Hoeh et al., 1998; Giribet and Wheeler, 2002).
Mantle and mantle cavity. Molluscs also have an extension of the body wall called the mantle. This fleshy tissue is responsible for secreting the shell. The mantle encloses the mantle cavity which contains the gills, anus and excretory pores. Gills. Most molluscs have one pair or only one feather-shaped gill found in the mantle cavity.
The main muscle of a bivalve is called the adductor muscle, and is also used to hold the shell halves together. When the bivalve s adductor muscles relax, the ligament causes the valves to open. Most species are also equipped with locking teeth or sockets beneath the ligament to prevent lateral slippage. Other ancient bivalves appear to have a double set of gills. The second sets of gills actually arise from a folding of the single gill. This is the case in the Filibranchia and Eulamellibranchia, where the gills have also taken over the function of obtaining food.