Definition. The process of changing a mutual fund from one class designation to another, due to a change in circumstances or requirements. This often happens when a company initially issues multiple series of mutual funds, and then after a certain series of events, one class of fund is reclassified as another class. YES NO 9 people found this helpful. “ Given the high level of economic uncertainty that the company was dealing with, Steven wasn't surprised to see a swift reclassification of the recently issued mutual funds.
Position Reclassification-How and When. A position should be considered for reclassification when there has been substantial and permanent changes in job duties, job complexity and/or knowledge and skills required. Changes to a position can occur naturally over a period of time or as the result of organizational changes. To request reclassification of a position, a position description should be completed that includes the purpose of the job and the job duties, identified as essential or marginal. Copies of previous and revised organizational charts should be included if organizational changes have occurred.
BREAKING DOWN 'Reclassification'. Sometimes mutual fund companies will decide to issue more than one series of similar mutual funds. Each series has different features and durations, and when the restrictions expire, they become reclassified to the fund with no restrictions. Suppose that a company issues two mutual funds. Fund A is a no load fund, while Fund B is a five-year, back-end load fund.
reclassification. noun change, changed ordering of priorities, changed priorities, reallocation, reallotment, reanalysis, reapportionment, rearrangement, reassignment, reassorting, reassortment, reconstitution, redistributing, reestablishment, regradation, regrouping, reorganization, retabulating. 
Noun. 1. reclassification-classifying something again (usually in a new category). classification, compartmentalisation, compartmentalization, assortment, categorisation, categorization-the act of distributing things into classes or categories of the same type. 
DEFINITION of 'Reclassification'. The process of changing the class of mutual funds once certain requirements have been met. These requirements are generally placed on load mutual funds. Reclassification is not considered to be a taxable event. Each series has different features and durations, and when the restrictions expire, they become reclassified to the fund with no restrictions. Suppose that a company issues two mutual funds. Fund A is a no load fund, while Fund B is a five-year, back-end load fund.
Interim Reclassification Criteria by Grade Level PPT-Spanish. Reclassification is the process whereby an English Learner is reclassified as a Fluent English Proficient (RFEP) student after meeting various linguistic and academic criteria set by the state and district. In addition, MPD distributes a list specifically of students who potentially qualify for reclassification. It is the responsibility of the school site to initiate the reclassification process.
Job Reclassification. Upon completing the analysis and audit, HR will approve the proposed reclassification or work to find an appropriate solution that meets the needs of the requesting department and ensures the integrity of the University's Classification & Salary Structure plan.
In mutual funds, the act or process of changing one type of fund into another type. For example, one may reclassify a front-load fund to a back-load fund or vice versa. One of the most common types of reclassification occurs when a load fund, after a certain number of years, becomes a no-load fund. This happens because the load generally only exists for a certain number of years.
1 Reclassification is a change from one job position/title to another that typically results in an increase in pay. 2  Reclassification usually occurs as a result of one of the following: 3  A vacant position exists that a supervisor wants to change to a different position to better meet the needs of the department. Upon completing the analysis and audit, HR will approve the proposed reclassification or work to find an appropriate solution that meets the needs of the requesting department and ensures the integrity of the University's Classification & Salary Structure plan.