Fossil fuels as the name suggests are derivatives of plant and animal fossils that are millions of years old. These are primarily formed from the remains of the decayed plants and animals of the carboniferous era. 
Where Fossil Fuels Come From. There are three major forms of fossil fuels: coal, oil and natural gas. All three were formed many hundreds of millions of years ago before the time of the dinosaurs – hence the name fossil fuels. The age they were formed is called the Carboniferous Period. It was part of the Paleozoic Era. 
A fossil-fuel power station is a power station which burns fossil fuel such as coal, natural gas or petroleum to produce electricity. Central station fossil-fuel power plants are designed on a large scale for continuous operation. In many countries, such plants provide most of the electrical energy used. In a fossil fuel power plant the chemical energy stored in fossil fuels such as coal, fuel oil, natural gas or oil shale and oxygen of the air is converted successively into thermal energy, mechanical energy and, finally, electrical energy. Each fossil fuel power plant is a complex, custom-designed system.
Fossil fuels are materials that are non-renewable such as oil, gas and coal. Aside from causing local air pollution from polluting particulates, the burning of fossil fuels releases carbon dioxide into the atmosphere, which is a greenhouse gas that contributes to climate change. 
The three fossil fuels--oil, natural gas and coal--are the decayed remains of the plants and animals that lived and died more than 300 million years ago. Buried and compressed under layers of rock and sand in the earth and beneath the oceans, those remains became the deposits of fossil fuels. 
Fossil fuels are fuels formed by natural processes such as anaerobic decomposition of buried dead organisms. The age of the organisms and their resulting fossil fuels is typically millions of years, and sometimes exceeds 650 million years. Fossil fuels contain high percentages of carbon and include coal, petroleum and natural gas. Other more commonly used derivatives of fossil fuels include kerosene and propane. Although fossil fuels are continually being formed via natural processes, they are generally considered to be non-renewable resources because they take millions of years to form and the known viable reserves are being depleted much faster than new ones are being made.
Fossil fuels are energy resources that come from the remains of plants and animals. These remains are millions of years old. There are three fossil fuels: petroleum oil, natural gas, and coal. Fossil fuels, like coal, oil, and natural gas, provide the energy that powers our lifestyles and our economy. Fossil fuels power everything from the planes in the sky to the cars on the road. They heat our homes and light up the night. Theyre the bedrock we base our energy mix on. But they are a limited resource.
They are called fossil fuels because, like fossils, they were  formed a long time ago. Oil for example is a fossil fuel, … it was  formed millions of years ago as dead animals and plants died they  formed a layer of dead stuff. Fossil fuels contain high percentages of carbon  and include coal, petroleum, and natural gas. When the carbon in  the fuel is burnt with oxygen from the atmosphere, the energy that  was used in photosynthesis is released and carbon dioxide is  re-formed.
A fossil fuel is any hydrocarbon that may be used as a source of  energy. Coal, oil and natural gas are the three basic fossil fuels,  formed 300 million years ago from orga … nic plant and animal life  subjected to great heat and pressure under the ground. They are  classes as non-renewable sources of energy. Fossil fuels contain high percentages of carbon  and include coal, petroleum, and natural gas. When the carbon in  the fuel is burnt with oxygen from the atmosphere, the energy that  was used in photosynthesis is released and carbon dioxide is  re-formed.