Introduction. Canasta is a popular card game among the American communities in the mid 20th century, it almost threatened the very existence of the other premier card games. Samba, Bolivia, and Burraco are some of the variants of Canasta. Canasta is a game with unique set of rules that are too distinct to be compared with the other card games. The rules composed here are the ones collected from various sources, as there are no official rules drafted for the game.
1 A canasta is a meld of at least seven cards of the same rank. 2  Each player starts with 15 cards in hand. 3  Yours are visible at the bottom of the window. 4  Both players take turns in drawing one card from the stock, and discarding one card on the discard pile (in that order). 1 You score points by melding cards, and making as many canastas as possible. 2  A canasta is a meld of at least seven cards of the same rank. 3  Each player starts with 15 cards in hand. 4
Canasta is a card game that can be played with 2 to 6 players, but the ideal number of players is typically 4 as a team game. The rules of Canasta are as follows. Two decks of 54 cards (108 cards total), including the 4 jokers, are used to play Canasta. All cards are shuffled […]. 
On your turn, you either draw a card from the draw pile or pick up the discard pile. See “Picking Up the Discard Pile” earlier in this chapter. If you pick up the discard pile, the top card of the pile is automatically played to the appropriate card pile. Jokers and 2s are wild cards and can be used to represent other cards. Black and red 3s have special properties. On your turn, you either draw a card from the draw pile or take the entire discard pile (there are special rules for picking up the discard pile; see “Picking Up the Discard Pile” later in this chapter). You can then play melds and canastas. At the end of your turn, you must discard a card to the dis
Canasta (/kəˈnaestə/ ; Kəˈnæstə spanish for) basket is a card game of the rummy family of games believed to be a variant of 500. Rum although many variations exist for, two, three five or six, players it is most commonly played by four in two partnerships with two standard decks of. cards Samba is a variant of Canasta, played with three decks, including jokers, for a total of 162 cards. 15 cards are dealt to each of four players, and an additional card is turned up. The game is to 10,000 points instead of 5,000.
It is still often referred to as Basket Rummy. Canasta has a number of rules which are both specific to Classic Canasta and in variance with other Rummy card games. The Deck-Canasta is played with two decks of 54 cards or a total of 108 cards including 4 jokers. All are shuffled together as one deck before the game begins. Note that in Canasta, both Jokers and Deuces (twos) are wild cards. Treys (threes) are special as you will see later. The only exception is that adding a wild card to a Canasta, reduces it from a Natural Canasta to a Mixed Canasta and therefore reduces the amount of bonus earned for it from 500 points to 300 points. This is no Game Bonus as in the rules of other Rummy games such as Gin Rummy.
1 Taking a discard pile that only contains one card is never allowed if you only have one card in your hand. 2  When there are no more cards on the stock a special situation occurs: 3  1. 4  If the discard pile is not frozen and you can add the top discard to one of your melds, you must take that top discard. 1 You score points by melding cards, and making as many canastas as possible. 2  A canasta is a meld of at least seven cards of the same rank. 3  Each player starts with 15 cards in hand. 4  Yours are visible at the bottom of the window.
You may not take the discard pile if the top up card is either a black trey or a wild card, the discard pile is said to be frozen. You may not take the up card if there are no other cards in the discard pile, and you have only one card in your hand. A Quick Look at the History of Canasta: The game originated in Uruguay in the late 1930’s. From there the game spread throughout South America and underwent some refinements in Argentina to produce the game we know today.
Canasta was the most popular card game in the United States in the 1950's despite it being quite complex compared to other Rummy games. There are many versions of Canasta such as Samba, Bolivia, Burraco and it is sometimes spelled Canaster or Kanasta in european countries. The only exception is that adding a wild card to a Canasta, reduces it from a Natural Canasta to a Mixed Canasta and therefore reduces the amount of bonus earned for it from 500 points to 300 points. This is no Game Bonus as in the rules of other Rummy games such as Gin Rummy.