However, the input offset voltage value may drift with temperature or age. Chopper amplifiers actively measure and compensate for the input offset voltage, and may be used when very low offset voltages are required. Input bias current and input offset current also affect the net offset voltage seen for a given amplifier.
Input offset voltage is the equivalent voltage at the input of an operational amplifier. If an amplifier has a voltage gain of ten and an input offset voltage of 10 microvolts, a level of 100 microvolts will appear at the output with no input.
For circuits that accuracy and/or symmetry is critical, the offset null pins provide a means to cancel internal discrepancies. The best example I can give you is the old ohmmeter. You would short the leads and adjust the needle to read zero, then you knew your resistance readings would be as accurate as possible. By adjusting the pot we can null any offset error. An offset error is when the inputs are exactly equal but the output isn't exactly zero. This error is also characterized by the datasheet: It can be safely ignored in AC applications, where this offset will be ignored by the AC coupling.
Manufacturers try to design an op amp so the input offset voltage is as small as possible to minimize this error voltage at the output of the amplifier, especially for applications where small voltages are being amplified. If an amplifier has a voltage gain of ten and an input offset voltage of 10 microvolts, a level of 100 microvolts will appear at the output with no input.
Answer by N4rb. Confidence votes 362. Input offset voltage is the equivalent voltage at the input of an operational amplifier. If an amplifier has a voltage gain of ten and an input offset voltage of 10 microvolts, a level of 100 microvolts will appear at the output with no input.
For circuits where it is necessary to remove or null the offset, many op-amp chips provide two pins that enable this to be done. Using the offset null adjustment requires a potentiometer with its wiper connected to the negative supply with some op amps or to 0 V with others so it is necessary to check the data sheet. Using an offset null capability it is possible to reduce the level of the offset voltage significantly. To incorporate an offset null capability within the op amp, a number of different actual circuits can be adopted.
However, due to manufacturing process, the differential input transistors of real op-amps may not be exactly matched. This causes the output to be zero at a non-zero value of differential input, called the input offset voltage. Typical values for are around 1 to 10mV for cheap commercial-grade op-amp integrated circuits (IC). Chopper amplifiers actively measure and compensate for the input offset voltage, and may be used when very low offset voltages are required. Input bias current and input offset current also affect the net offset voltage seen for a given amplifier.
The offset null capability for op amps is often used in instrumentation applications. For example where the small DC voltages produced by thermocouples or other sensors need to be amplified. Using an offset null capability it is possible to reduce the level of the offset voltage significantly. To incorporate an offset null capability within the op amp, a number of different actual circuits can be adopted.
The voltage offset due to these currents are separate from the input offset voltage parameter and is related to the impedance of the signal source and of the feedback and input impedance networks such as the two resistors used in the basic inverting and non-inverting amplifier configurations. Chopper amplifiers actively measure and compensate for the input offset voltage, and may be used when very low offset voltages are required. Input bias current and input offset current also affect the net offset voltage seen for a given amplifier.
Op Amp Offset Null Terminals. Op amps have terminals which are called Offset Null Terminals. Before we get into exactly what the offset null terminals are, we need to explain some basics so you'll understand exactly what these terminals are for. First to begin with, an op amp is a differential amplifier. This means it amplifies the difference in voltage between the two input pins. This is why op amps have offset null terminals. To make the voltages exactly equal, you apply the same voltage to both pins and place a potentiometer to one of the pins and change the resistance until the output is 0V.