Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse and Museum offers climbing tours to the top of the landmark 1860 lighthouse and a waterfront history Museum in a restored WWII Navy building known as “Station J”. Indoor exhibits tell diverse stories of over 5,000 years of human habitation in and around the Jupiter Inlet and Loxahatchee River. The historic and serenely beautiful Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse and Museum is a source of civic pride and a rich educational beacon for our state. Community support is essential. We invite you to join us in this important and exciting endeavor.
It is located between St. Augustine Light and Cape Canaveral Light. Restored by the Ponce de Leon Inlet Lighthouse Preservation Association, the lighthouse became a National Historic Landmark in 1998. The first order Fresnel lens was replaced with a third order rotating Fresnel lens at the same time. In 1927 the name of Mosquito Inlet was changed to Ponce de Leon Inlet. The lighthouse was transferred from the abolished Lighthouse Service to the Coast Guard in 1939, which would oversee it for the next three decades.
The Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse Outstanding Natural Area (ONA) is part of the Bureau of Land Management’s 27-million acre National Landscape Conservation System; and the only complete unit east of the Mississippi River. 
The Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse Outstanding Natural Area (ONA) was federally designated by Congress in May 2008. At the junction of the Indian and Loxahatchee Rivers at the Jupiter Inlet, 120 acres contain 25 special status species and cultural evidence of 5,000 years of human occupation. Join us at the Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse and Museum for a magical lantern-lit soiree with live music, hors d’oeuvres, drinks & silent auction, unveiling Author/Historian Jim Snyder’s new book release “A Trip Down the Loxahatchee” featuring more than 150 original paintings and photography of our beloved river.
About Us. The Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse and Museum is operated by the Loxahatchee River Historical Society, a 501(c)3 nonprofit organization and partner in the Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse Outstanding Natural Area, National Conservation Lands. NEWS!!! November 29, 2012. The historic and serenely beautiful Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse and Museum is a source of civic pride and a rich educational beacon for our state. Community support is essential. We invite you to join us in this important and exciting endeavor.
1861 - The Jupiter Lighthouse went dark during the Civil War, after Confederates seized a crucial part and hid it in the woods by a creek. 1865 - Hurricane. 1866 - After several years of darkness, the Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse was repaired, re-lit, and re-dedicated. 1875 - A new kitchen building was added to the Keepers' House to replace the outdoor kitchen used since 1860. 1883 - A new two-story home was built to house the two Assistant Keepers and their families. If you have the opportunity, we highly recommend that you visit the Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse and Museum, as there is nothing like climbing the 105 cast iron stairs to the top of a historic structure like this first hand. There are many books and web sites that go into much greater detail and description.
OLD PHOTO ARCHIVES. The Jupiter Inlet, Loxahatchee River, and surrounding areas are very rich in history. When you look at the natural beauty, proximity to the ocean, and sub-tropical climate, it's no wonder why people have settled on the shores of the Jupiter/Tequesta area for generations. 1861 - The Jupiter Lighthouse went dark after Confederates seized a crucial part and hid it in a Jupiter Creek. 1865 - Hurricane. 1866 - The Jupiter Lighthouse was repaired and re-lit. 1870 - The Barefoot Mailman begins mail delivery route along our local beaches, and South to present day Miami.
The Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse, originally commissioned by the U.S. Government in the 1850's, sits on land that was secured by the U.S. Military after the Second Seminole Indian War. If you have the opportunity, we highly recommend that you visit the Jupiter Inlet Lighthouse and Museum, as there is nothing like climbing the 105 cast iron stairs to the top of a historic structure like this first hand. There are many books and web sites that go into much greater detail and description.
The Florida Lighthouse Board in 1852 recommended that a lighthouse be built near Jupiter Inlet to make the lower coast safer for ships and help mariners avoid the dangerous shoal offshore where the Loxahatchee River flows to the Atlantic Ocean. The main difficulty in building the lighthouse was the shutting of the inlet by silt in 1854, which forced workers to send 500 tons of construction materials down the Indian River in shallow boats.