One of the New England Colonies, New Hampshire started out as a Proprietary colony but it became a Royal colony in 1679. In 1719 Scots-Irish settlers from Londonderry, Ireland were sent to form a Scottish settlement in New Hampshire named for their town of origin. One of the Middle Colonies, New Jersey started out as a Proprietary colony but in 1702 it was granted a Royal charter. New Jersey, in 1787, was the third state to ratify the Constitution.
PROPRIETARY COLONIES. PROPRIETARY COLONIES were grants of land in the form of a charter, or a license to rule, for individuals or groups. They were used to settle areas rapidly with British subjects at the proprietors' expense during the costly settlement years. Proprietary colonies were the predominant form of colony in the seventeenth century, when the Carolinas, the Jerseys, Maine, Maryland, New Hampshire, New York, and Pennsylvania were handed down through hereditary proprietorship.
By David Saville Muzzey, 1920. Of the thirteen colonies which were later to unite to form the United States, all except Virginia and the New England settlements were founded as proprietorships. The Proprietorship was a sort of middle thing between the royal province and the self-governing colony.
Patterns of Colonization in the Other Early Colonies [edit]. The territory of Carolina, named after the British King Charles I, was granted as a proprietary colony to eight different nobles. The proprietors divided Carolina into two separate colonies -- North Carolina and South Carolina. Four colonies were formed by division from already extant larger territories. When New Holland was taken to become New York, King James granted a portion of the territory, present-day New Jersey, to Lord Berkeley and Sir George Cartaret, while retaining present-day New York for himself as a proprietary colony. Portrait of the British Colonies [edit]. The Colonies are often considered as three groups: New England (New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut), the Southern Colonies (Maryland, Virginia, the Carolinas, and Georgia), and the Middle Colonies (New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Delaware).
The Province of New Jersey was one of the Middle Colonies of Colonial America and became the U.S. state of New Jersey in 1776. The province had originally been settled by Europeans as part of New Netherland, but came under English rule after the surrender of Fort Amsterdam in 1664, becoming a proprietary colony. On April 17, 1702, under the rule of Queen Anne, the two sections of the proprietary colony were united and New Jersey became a royal colony. Edward Hyde, Lord Cornbury, became the first governor of the colony as a royal colony. However, he was an ineffective and corrupt ruler, taking bribes and speculating on land.
One of the Middle Colonies, Delaware was a Proprietary colony Delaware was the first state to ratify the Constitution and become a State in 1787. North Carolina's outer banks were the scene of the first British colonizing efforts in North America. One of the Middle Colonies, New Jersey started out as a Proprietary colony but in 1702 it was granted a Royal charter. New Jersey, in 1787, was the third state to ratify the Constitution.
Cecil Calvert, 2nd Baron Baltimore was the first Proprietor and Proprietary Governor of the Province of Maryland. A proprietary colony was a type of British colony especially in North America and the Caribbean in the 17th century. In the British Empire, all land belonged to the king, and it was his prerogative to divide. Therefore all colonial properties were partitioned by royal charter into one of four types: proprietary, royal, joint stock, or covenant. 1 Province of Georgia. 2  Province of Carolina (which was divided in 1712 into the Province of North Carolina and the Province of South Carolina. 3  Province of Pennsylvania (aka Pennsylvania Colony)-Granted to William Penn in 1681.
Three types of colonies existed in the British Empire in America during the height of its power in the 18th century. These were charter colonies, proprietary colonies and royal colonies. After the end of the Napoleonic Wars (1803–1815), British territories in the Americas were slowly granted more responsible government. 
Of the proprietary colonies, only Maryland, Delaware, and Pennsylvania remained as such; they were not converted to royal colonies. In the others, the crown exerted its authority at the expense of the royal governors and the legislatures. Proprietary colonies were the predominant form of colony in the seventeenth century, when the Carolinas, the Jerseys, Maine, Maryland, New Hampshire, New York, and Pennsylvania were handed down through hereditary proprietorship.