There are 11 gases in the periodic table and they are: Hydrogen, Helium, Neon, Argon, Krypton, xenon, radon, chlorine, fluorine, oxygen and nitrogen :D. Noble gases are elements that have all possible electron positions in the outer, or valence, shell filled. This makes them chemically non-reactive. They are found in group 18 … on the periodic table (far right edge) of elements (He, Ne, Ar, Kr, Xe, and Rn). 3 people found this useful.
Elements of the periodic table that are gases are just called gases. There is a whole group of elements in the table that are gases, and they're the inert gases or noble gases … . They comprise the elements of group 18 in the table. The inert gases are helium, neon, argon, krypton, xenon and radon. Noble gases are elements that have all possible electron positions in the outer, or valence, shell filled. This makes them chemically non-reactive. They are found in group 18 … on the periodic table (far right edge) of elements (He, Ne, Ar, Kr, Xe, and Rn). 3 people found this useful.
The rows of the table are called periods; the columns are called groups. Six groups (columns) have names as well as numbers: for example, group 17 elements are the halogens; and group 18, the noble gases. The periodic table can be used to derive relationships between the properties of the elements, and predict the properties of new elements yet to be discovered or synthesized. The number of possible elements is not known. A very early suggestion made by Elliot Adams in 1911, and based on the arrangement of elements in each horizontal periodic table row, was that elements of atomic weight greater than 256± (which would equate to between elements 99 and 100 in modern-day terms) did not exist.
Elements of the periodic table that are gases are just called gases. There is a whole group of elements in the table that are gases, and they're the inert gases or noble gases … . They comprise the elements of group 18 in the table. The inert gases are helium, neon, argon, krypton, xenon and radon. The only other elements that are gases at room temperature are hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and then fluorine and chlorine. Those last two elements are part of group 17, which is the group known as halogens.   A link to the Wikipedia periodic table is posted.
All noble gases have the maximum number of electrons possible in their outer shell (2 for Helium, 8 for all others), making them stable. Helium Neon Argon Krypton Xenon Radon This website is copyright © 1996-2012 Yinon Bentor. The six noble gases are found in group 18 of the periodic table. These elements were considered to be inert gases until the 1960's, because their oxidation number of 0 prevents the noble gases from forming compounds readily.
Using the data in the table scientists, students, and others that are familiar with the periodic table can extract information concerning individual elements. For instance, a scientist can use carbon's atomic mass to determine how many carbon atoms there are in a 1 kilogram block of carbon. Elements that lie in the same column on the periodic table (called a group) have identical valance electron configurations and consequently behave in a similar fashion chemically. For instance, all the group 18 elements are inert gases.
Noble gases are elements that have all possible electron positions in the outer, or valence, shell filled. This makes them chemically non-reactive. They are found in group 18 … on the periodic table (far right edge) of elements (He, Ne, Ar, Kr, Xe, and Rn). The only other elements that are gases at room temperature are hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and then fluorine and chlorine. Those last two elements are part of group 17, which is the group known as halogens.   A link to the Wikipedia periodic table is posted.
The periodic table is a tabular arrangement of the chemical elements, ordered by their atomic number (number of protons in the nucleus), electron configurations, and recurring chemical properties. The table also shows four rectangular blocks: s-, p-d- and f-block. The number of possible elements is not known. A very early suggestion made by Elliot Adams in 1911, and based on the arrangement of elements in each horizontal periodic table row, was that elements of atomic weight greater than 256± (which would equate to between elements 99 and 100 in modern-day terms) did not exist.