A. A. A. Urticaria, also known as hives, is an outbreak of swollen, pale red bumps or plaques (wheals) on the skin that appear suddenly -- either as a result of the body's reaction to certain allergens, or for unknown reasons. Hives usually cause itching, but may also burn or sting. They can appear anywhere on the body, including the face, lips, tongue, throat, or ears. Hives vary in size (from a pencil eraser to a dinner plate), and may join together to form larger areas known as plaques.
If you are an adult and have suffered from chronic hives your whole life, you may want to have your blood checked for these issues or other related conditions. What Causes Hives in Adults-The Food You Consume: We also know that the food you eat might be the culprit of an adult hives breakout. What Causes Hives in Adults-The Immune System: What we do know is that hives in adults has a great deal to do with the immune system. Your immune system can be weakened by years of break outs or flare-ups due to disorders related to thyroid disease and even lupus
Hives in adults can also be brought on by poor skin care. This can come in the form of dry or chapped skin, extreme sunlight, body tanning, extreme cold condition plus several others. The care of your body and the health of your skin play an enormous roll in what causes hives in adults. What Causes Hives in Adults-The Immune System: What we do know is that hives in adults has a great deal to do with the immune system. Your immune system can be weakened by years of break outs or flare-ups due to disorders related to thyroid disease and even lupu
The most common causes are certain foods, medications, or infections. Insect bites and internal disease may also be responsible. The most common foods that cause hives are nuts, chocolate, fish, tomatoes, eggs, fresh berries, and milk. Fresh foods cause hives more often than cooked foods. Hives usually cause itching, but may also burn or sting. They can appear anywhere on the body, including the face, lips, tongue, throat, or ears. Hives vary in size (from a pencil eraser to a dinner plate), and may join together to form larger areas known as plaques.
Hives are also known as urticaria, welts, wheals, or nettle rash. It is a red, raised, itchy skin rash that is sometimes triggered by something that produces an allergic reaction-an allergen. When there is an allergic reaction the body releases a protein called histamine. Acute urticaria or Acute hives. When symptoms last less than 6 weeks it is called acute urticaria. This is by far the most common type. 25% of people with acute urticaria also have angioedema-swelling in the deeper layers of skin.
A. Hives, also known as urticaria, are an outbreak of swollen, pale red bumps, patches, or welts on the skin that appear suddenly -- either as a result of allergies, or for other reasons. Hives usually cause itching, but may also burn or sting. Hives, also known as urticaria, are an outbreak of swollen, pale red bumps, patches, or welts on the skin that appear suddenly -- either as a result of allergies, or for other reasons. Poison ivy, poison oak, and poison sumac are plants that contain an irritating, oily sap called urushiol.
Angioedema is a form of hives where the swelling occurs beneath the skin rather than on the surface. Angioedema, found in about 30 percent of adults with chronic urticaria, is characterized by deep swelling around the eyes and lips. Chronic urticaria is a chronic case of hives that last six weeks or more, and is often caused by a trigger that is difficult or impossible to identify. People with no known cause for their chronic hives may be diagnosed with Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria (CIU).
If symptoms of urticaria continue for more than six weeks it is called chronic urticaria. Dermatologists say that about 1 in every 1,000 people suffers from chronic urticaria. Experts are not completely sure what the causes of chronic urticaria are. However, most agree that it is closely linked with our immune system. In some cases, chronic hives may be related to an underlying autoimmune disorder, such as thyroid disease or lupus. Acute urticaria or Acute hives. When symptoms last less than 6 weeks it is called acute urticaria. This is by far the most common type. 25% of people with acute urticaria also have angioedema-swelling in the deeper layers of skin.