Compounds of carbon are defined as chemical substances containing carbon. More compounds of carbon exist than any other chemical element except for hydrogen. Organic carbon compounds are far more numerous than inorganic carbon compounds. In general bonds of carbon with other elements are covalent bonds. Carbon is tetravalent but carbon free radicals and carbenes occur as short-lived intermediates. Ions of carbon are carbocations and carbanions and are also short-lived. Carbides are binary compounds of carbon with an element that is less electronegative than it. The most important are Al4C3, B4C, CaC2, Fe3C, HfC, SiC, TaC, TiC, and WC.
Carbon dioxide is the only inorganic molecule that contains carbon. Actually carbon monoxide is another, and there is some doubt about the classification of materi … als like calcium carbide, silicon carbide, etc., which may be regarded as organic or inorganic depending on what you want to do with them. Carbon is present in most of the non water molecules in the human  body. Glucose, the primary energy source of cells has carbon, fat  is carbon rich, the membranes that make … up cells are made of  lipids, which have carbon in them.
An organic molecule generally contains carbon,  though it should be noted that there are carbon containing  molecules (such as carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, metal  carbo … nates, metal bicarbonates and metal carbides) which are  considered to be inorganic. found this useful. Brian Ortega. Carbon is present in most of the non water molecules in the human  body. Glucose, the primary energy source of cells has carbon, fat  is carbon rich, the membranes that make … up cells are made of  lipids, which have carbon in them.
Organic molecules contain carbon and hydrogen chemically linked to one another in long chains, with carbon as the backbone and hydrogen atoms attached to the carbon atoms. These atoms' ability to attach to one another allows for the creation of innumerable compounds conducive to life. 
1 The number of hydrogen atoms that can be bonded to a given number of carbon atoms is limited by the valence of carbon. 2  For compounds of carbon and hydrogen (hydrocarbons) the maximum number of hydrogen atoms that can be bonded to n carbons is 2n + 2 (n is an integer). 3  In the case of methane, CH 4, n=1 & 2n + 2 = 4. 1 The number of hydrogen atoms in stable compounds of carbon, hydrogen & oxygen reflects the number of double bonds and rings in their structural formulas. 2  Consider a hydrocarbon with a molecular structure consisting of a simple chain of four carbon atoms, CH 3 CH 2 CH 2 CH 3.
In summary, most carbon-containing compounds are organic, and almost all organic compounds contain at least a C-H bond or a C-C bond. A compound does not need to contain C-H bonds to be considered organic (e.g., urea), but many organic compounds do. Other compounds lacking C-H bonds that are also traditionally considered organic include benzenehexol, mesoxalic acid, and carbon tetrachloride. Mellitic acid, which contains no C-H bonds, is considered a possible organic substance in Martian soil. C-C bonds are found in most organic compounds, except some small molecules like methane and methanol, which have only one carbon atom in their structure
Carbon. If you separate a living organism into its molecular parts, you will find about 70% water. The remainder of each organism is composed of organic molecules, which are necessary for life on Earth. Covalent bonds between carbon and hydrogen atoms form the basis of organic molecules. Other elements such as oxygen, nitrogen, and phosphorus play key roles in life processes by modifying the structure and chemical properties of organic molecules. The unique number and arrangement of bonds between carbon atoms creates a structurally diverse set of organic molecules in nature. These molecules may be constructed in straight, branched, or ringed carbon chains and may include varying numbers of carbon-carbon single, double, or triple bonds.
For historical reasons discussed below, a few types of carbon-containing compounds, such as carbides, carbonates, simple oxides of carbon (such as CO and CO 2), and cyanides are considered inorganic. Other compounds lacking C-H bonds that are also traditionally considered organic include benzenehexol, mesoxalic acid, and carbon tetrachloride. Mellitic acid, which contains no C-H bonds, is considered a possible organic substance in Martian soil. C-C bonds are found in most organic compounds, except some small molecules like methane and methanol, which have only one carbon atom in their structure