The genetically engineered E. coli bacteria were employed in the production of human insulin by successfully introducing the human gene responsible for insulin production into the gene sequence of the E. coli bacteria and cultivating the modified bacteria under suitable laboratory environment.
The types of vectors used may be either a plasmid or a cosmid or a phage and the various methods which allow the vector to enter the bacteria are transformation, transfection and transduction. Thus the genetically modified E. coli bacteria made its way into industrial biotechnology.
E. coli lives in the lower intestine of warm-blooded animals, including humans. It’s one of many bacterial species that inhabit our digestive tract in large numbers. In fact, there are more bacterial cells in our digestive tract than there are human cells in our bodies! There are a large number of E. coli strains (or subtypes) with diverse characteristics. Most are harmless to humans, including the B and K-12 strains that are used routinely for laboratory work.
Genetic mapping in E. coli was made possible by the discovery of conjugation. E. coli is the most highly studied microorganism and an advanced knowledge of its protein expression mechanisms makes it simpler to use for experiments where expression of foreign proteins and selection of recombinants is essential.
Bacteria – particularly the bacterium Escherichia coli – have been central to this revolution. It was E. coli that was the first host for foreign DNA, and plasmid DNA from E. coli has been a crucial tool for working with pieces of DNA from all species.
The bacterium Escherichia coli (E. coli) are one among the other microorganisms constituting the micro flora of the gut of the warm blooded animals including humans. These are called as beneficial microorganisms which are harmless.
E. coli – the biotech bacterium. The bacterium Escherichia coli (E. coli for short) is crucial in modern biotechnology. Scientists use it to store DNA sequences from other organisms, to produce proteins and to test protein function.
1 Bacterial production of substances like human interferon, human insulin and human growth hormone. 2  That is, simple bacteria like E. coli are manipulated to produce these chemicals so that they are easily harvested in vast quantities for use in medicine.