List of Hindu baby names, Hindu baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Hindu names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Hindu baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Sannidhi in Hindu origin/culture for Boy name with history and fame details. Loving female voice. Yes, this is a true and a known fact that babies love the sound and voice of a female and prefer the same over the voice of the male. This might be the reason why babies are more close to their age during infancy.
People with this name tend to be very warm and nurturing. They are extremely reliable and are often found taking care of others. They have a deep need to try and create harmony in their surroundings. Unfortunately, this can sometimes lead to getting taken advantage of. 
Find qualities of Aquarius (Kumbh) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Sannidhi or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Kumbh (Aquarius) with other zodiac signs. Similar sounding names: Sammath, Samidha, Sanithi, Sammat, Sanmati, Sammud, Samhit, Samedh, Sandy, Sammed, Sainath, Samodh, Sandhaya, Sandhya, Sanat, Sanhata, Samhita, Samidh, Samata, Samit, Sanad, Samhith, Sammathi, Sandie, Sammad, Samita, Sanath, Samad.
ಸನ್ನಿಧಿ; সন্নিধি; సన్నిధి; ஸந்நிதி; ਸਨ੍ਨਿਧਿ; സന്നിധി; સન્નિધિ. Name Sannidhi generally means Nearness or Holy place, is of Indian origin, Name Sannidhi is a Unisex name, which means both Boy and Girl can have this name. Person with name Sannidhi are mainly Hindu by religion. Similar sounding names: Sammath, Samidha, Sanithi, Sammat, Sanmati, Sammud, Samhit, Samedh, Sandy, Sammed, Sainath, Samodh, Sandhaya, Sandhya, Sanat, Sanhata, Samhita, Samidh, Samata, Samit, Sanad, Samhith, Sammathi, Sandie, Sammad, Samita, Sanath, Samad.
Meaning of Indian name: Sannidhi. Meaning of the name Sannidhi is 'Nearness'. Sannidhi is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Sannidhi is '6'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Sannidhi