Just rinse the milk out, place the bottles (no nipples or rings) in the dish washer and let the dish washer do it it's job.....a dish washer is also great for sterilizing bottles. · just now. Report Abuse. You sterilize the brand new bottles right after opening them, then you wash them like normal. If you don't have a sterilizer the dishwasher works just fine, then you don't have to worry about washing them. Sara · 4 years ago. Thumbs up
Before you first use new bottles, nipples, and rings, sterilize them by submerging them in a pot of boiling water for at least five minutes. Then let them air dry on a clean towel. After that, a good cleaning in hot, soapy water or a cycle through the dishwasher is sufficient. When these chemicals are released, they may end up in your baby's milk or formula. You can find handy bottle-feeding gear, such as bottle drying racks and dishwasher baskets for nipples, rings, and bottle caps, at most baby supply stores.
In this article. In the old days when water supplies were not reliably clean, it made sense to sterilize baby bottles. But now, sterilizing bottles, nipples, and water is mostly unnecessary. Unless your water supply is suspected to harbor contaminated bacteria, it is as safe for your baby as it is for you. There is no reason to sterilize what is already safe. Sterilizing the bottles and nipples is also unwarranted.
When discussing about how to sterilize baby bottles, knowing when and how to sterilize is very important. It is also important to clean the bottles, nipples and bottle brush well with warm soapy water before sterilization. You can clean the bottle and its parts manually or in a dishwasher too. Knowing how to sterilize baby bottles in boiling water is very simple. Take a big deep vessel, fill water and make sure bottles and other parts are fully immersed in it. Also, make sure that any part of the bottle and its part are not touching the vessel bottom as direct heat can damage them.
1 If you plan to sterilize the bottle lids or nipples, wash them thoroughly as well. 2  If you're working with bottles that have caked-on substances inside, soak them in a mild bleach solution (a capful of bleach for each gallon of water) to loosen the substance, then wash with soapy water and rinse. 
Two exceptions: One, if you have well water, it may be best to continue sterilizing the bottles. And two, to minimize exposure to harmful chemicals, don't boil plastic baby bottles, heat them in the microwave, or wash them in the dishwasher. When these chemicals are released, they may end up in your baby's milk or formula. You can find handy bottle-feeding gear, such as bottle drying racks and dishwasher baskets for nipples, rings, and bottle caps, at most baby supply stores.
If your baby's bottles are suitable for boiling, you can sterilise them using this method. You will need a large pan with a lid or cover, preferably new. Try not to use the pan for anything other than sterilising your baby's feeding equipment. Fill the pan with water and submerge all the feeding equipment completely. But by sterilising your baby’s feeding equipment, you can help to keep him healthy. Before you sterilise, you’ll need to clean the used bottles thoroughly. Wash the bottles in clean soapy water, along with the teats, retaining rings, caps, and the manufacturer’s scoop that comes with the tin of formula.
You may want to sterilize new glass baby bottles and new nipples by putting them in boiling water for 5 minutes Afterward, you can wash bottles in the dishwasher, which cleans better than hand-washing them, or wash by hand with hot, soapy water and rinse well. 2. 
For daily cleaning of bottles and supplies; however, you'll only need soap, hot water and a baby bottle brush: 1  Fill sink with hot water and add dishwashing liquid. 2  Add bottles, nipples, caps, rings, preparation utensils and other supplies. 3  Pour hot, soapy water into bottles, and rotate a baby bottle brush inside until the bottle is clean. 4  Use a ... 1 Pour hot, soapy water into bottles, and rotate a baby bottle brush inside until the bottle is clean. 2  Wash away all soapy water under running water. 3  Use a nipple brush to wash nipples and nipple holes. 4  Squeeze the hot, soapy water through the nipple hole to flush out any trapped milk.