AAV’s, to meet approval for use in residential construction, have to demonstrate that they can go through 500,000 cycles without ever passing gas—-roughly equivalent to 30 years–man I sure wish my plumbing system could do that! Here is a picture of a modern AAV on a laundry sink drain. Every plumbing fixture needs a means of venting the drain line so that water doesn’t get sucked out of the trap of the fixture—-which could allow sewer gases to enter the home. Somehow sewer gases and the smell of fresh baked bread or homemade pizza just don’t go together.
At the building drain system's lowest point, the drain-waste vent is attached, and rises (usually inside a wall) to and out of the roof. Waste exits from the building through the building's main drain and flows through a sewage line, which leads to a septic system or a public sewer. A blocked vent is a relatively common problem caused by anything from leaves, to dead animals, to ice dams in very cold weather, or a horizontal section of the venting system, sloped the wrong way and filled with water from rain or condensation.
In the case of a tub that is close to a stack, its drain may empty into a pipe that also serves as a vent. For a freestanding sink code may allow a loop vent. If reventing is difficult and wet venting isn't allowed, you may have to install a separate vent pipe through the roof. Vent types. A true vent is a vertical pipe attached to a drain line that travels through the roof with no water running through it. If a fixture is close to the stack and on the top floor, the upper part of the stack serves nicely
An air admittance valve, or AAV, is a device used in plumbing. Not every home plumbing system has an AAV, but having...... The AAV is a cylindrical-shaped object with a noticeable lip made from PVC or polyvinyl chloride fitted with rubber valves. The valve is one-way, meaning that it only allows water to flow out and not back in.
Studor Air Admittance Valves (AAVs) are negative pressure-activated, one-way vents, used in a drainage system to eliminate the need for passive pipe venting and unsightly, costly roof penetrations. Using AAVs significantly reduces the amount of materials needed in a plumbing system, increasing plumbing labour efficiency, allowing greater flexibility in the layout of plumbing architecture, and reducing long-term roof maintenance problems associated with conventional vent stack roofing
Air Vent or Auto-Vent. If you can see a spring inside the cap, it is an Auto-Vent. Spring visible inside an Auto-vent. At some point in the 90’s, a new type of air-vent could be found in the neighborhood–called the Air Admittance Valve –or AAV. Every plumbing fixture needs a means of venting the drain line so that water doesn’t get sucked out of the trap of the fixture—-which could allow sewer gases to enter the home. Somehow sewer gases and the smell of fresh baked bread or homemade pizza just don’t go together.
Do you have the distances that require a vent, or is an AAV an option? Only her plumber knows for sure. The distances (lengths) permissible for arms (drain pipes without vents) depend on the slope of the pipe and the distance from the closest vent. It's not an island-but for the purposes of this discussion, it's the same as an island configuration. The closest vent stacks are quite a bit away and require a lot of breaking through floors and concrete. My contractor insists that AAV is the way to go and it's rated for 20 years.
your questions answered. Air Admittance Valve (AAV) technology has been around since 1975 and educating the end users about guidelines and how AAVs can solve bad smells in a drainage system is a continual process, which is of a high priority to Studor. 
In modern plumbing, a drain-waste-vent (or DWV) is part of a system that removes sewage and greywater from a building, and regulates air pressure in the waste-system pipes to aid free flow. A blocked vent is a relatively common problem caused by anything from leaves, to dead animals, to ice dams in very cold weather, or a horizontal section of the venting system, sloped the wrong way and filled with water from rain or condensation.