Premium API delivers advanced and in-depth weather data as XML, JSON, JSON-P etc. 1  1. Rice could be the answer to decrease greenhouse gases. 2  2. 8 million tons of plastic dumped into the ocean each year. 3  3. Have you noticed mysterious goo rolling onto American beaches? 4  4. Displacements due to natural disasters: spending and solutions. 5  5. 6  6. 
The Bardolino, Italian Lakes climate guide is perfect for planning your holiday. Monthly weather averages give the best indication of what the weather is usually like for every month of the year including figures for temperature, rainfall and sunshine. Travel deals & exclusive discounts on holidays, flights, hotels & more... We promise not to share your details. We help you find the best travel deals for your holiday in the sun by sharing tips on when and where to go, before providing you with top discounts.
Travel deals & exclusive discounts on holidays, flights, hotels & more... We promise not to share your details. We help you find the best travel deals for your holiday in the sun by sharing tips on when and where to go, before providing you with top discounts. 
Bardolino holiday weather information. We provide Bardolino holiday weather for the next 7 and 14 days. The 7 day weather for Bardolino provides weather information in 3 hourly intervals for each day and our 14 day Bardolino weather provides weather data in 6 hourly intervals. We also provide monthly climate averages for Bardolino
Football: US Simionese, Italy. The 7 day weather forecast summary for Bardolino: For Bardolino in the coming week the average daytime maximum temperature will be around 21°C, with a high for the week of 23°C expected on the afternoon of Saturday 10th. Bardolino holiday weather information. We provide Bardolino holiday weather for the next 7 and 14 days. The 7 day weather for Bardolino provides weather information in 3 hourly intervals for each day and our 14 day Bardolino weather provides weather data in 6 hourly intervals. We also provide monthly climate averages for Bardolino
Bardolino: Annual Weather Averages. July is the hottest month in Bardolino with an average temperature of 24°C (75°F) and the coldest is January at 2°C (36°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 12 in July. The wettest month is August with an average of 88mm of rain. 
The Zoover 14 day weather forecast! On holiday but what will the weather be like in Bardolino?Here you will find the 14 day weather forecast for Bardolino.
Reviewing the forecast for Bardolino Over the next 14 days and the average daytime maximum temperature will be around 17°C, with a high for the two weeks of 21°C expected on the afternoon of Friday 23rd. We provide Bardolino holiday weather for the next 7 and 14 days. The 7 day weather for Bardolino provides weather information in 3 hourly intervals for each day and our 14 day Bardolino weather provides weather data in 6 hourly intervals.