Leg numbness can be treated after diagnosing its root cause. Symptoms : Temporary leg numbness would not show any other symptoms. Leg numbness caused due to other medical conditions is accompanied by other symptoms like leg pain, feeling of pins and needles on the affected leg. 
Atherosclerosis may cause tingling and numbness if the blood supply to a limb is affected, especially while walking. Other causes of numbness and tingling are: Systemic diseases: Other disease conditions can also result in tingling and numbness. 
Numbness of the fingers and/or hands typically is a result of conditions that affect the nerves and/or blood vessels that supply the hand. Numbness of the fingers or hands is often associated with tingling. These symptoms are referred to as paresthesia of the fingers. Medically Reviewed by a Doctor on 12/4/2014. 
1 Diseases that involve nerve damage-There are many diseases that can involve the nerves and result in numbness, weakness, paralysis, or pain. 2  These include diabetes, multiple sclerosis, and seizures. 1 Conditions that result in reduced blood circulation-Some conditions that are characterized by low blood perfusion can cause either temporary or permanent numbing of the hands and feet. 2  Low temperatures can constrict the blood vessels and cause numbness of the hands, feet, nose, and ears.
Causes. Numbness is usually caused by damage, irritation or compression of several nerves or a single branch of a nerve, most often situated in the periphery of your body. Diseases affecting the peripheral nerves, such as diabetes, also can cause numbness. Rarely, numbness can be caused by problems in your brain or spinal cord. Fortunately, numbness by itself is only rarely associated with potentially life-threatening disorders, such as strokes or tumors. Your doctor will need detailed information about your symptoms to diagnose the cause of your numbness.
Numbness can be a symptom of a wide variety of diseases, disorders or conditions that either restrict blood flow or cause injury to the nerves. Temporary numbness can be due to any activity that causes prolonged pressure on a nerve or nerves, such as sitting cross legged or bicycling long distance. 
Hand numbness: Introduction. Numbness usually arises from damage or disease of nerves. Numbness is often associated with or preceded by abnormal pain-like sensations often described as pins-and-needles, prickling or burning sensations called paresthesias; see hand paresthesias. Conditions listing medical symptoms: Hand numbness: The following list of conditions have ' Hand numbness ' or similar listed as a symptom in our database. This computer-generated list may be inaccurate or incomplete. Always seek prompt professional medical advice about the cause of any symptom.
Causes. Numbness in a hand is usually caused by damage, irritation or compression of one of the nerves or a branch of one of the nerves in your arm and wrist. Diseases affecting the peripheral nerves, such as diabetes, also can cause numbness, although this is often preceded by similar symptoms in your feet. Rarely, numbness can be caused by problems in your brain or spinal cord, although this is usually accompanied by weakness or loss of function in your arm or hand
Numb hands and tingling in the hands can be caused by diseases of the central nervous system. Multiple sclerosis, stroke, and other disorders of the brain and spinal cord may sometimes cause numbness in the forearm and hand. Other diseases can affect the nerves in the upper limb, causing numbness, tingling, burning. DESCRIPTION. Although carpal tunnel syndrome is common, it is not the only cause of numbness, tingling, and pain in the forearm and hand. CAUSES