Excess drinking can raise triglycerides in addition to raising your blood pressure and providing you with extra calories. You don't need to be a big drinker to see its effects, according to the American Heart Association, as even small amounts of alcohol can cause large changes in your triglyceride levels. Recommended Intake. If you drink alcoholic beverages and have high triglycerides, alcohol reduction can go along way toward bringing these levels back to normal. For best results, the Cleveland Clinic recommends limiting your intake to just 5 oz.
Whiskey and all types of alcohol can increase your triglycerides, a type of fat that counts toward your total cholesterol levels. Triglycerides are chemically different from low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, a waxy substance, but high levels of either put you at risk for heart attacks and strokes. A serving of whiskey, gin, vodka or rum equals 1½ oz. of 80-proof liquor or 1 oz. of 100-proof liquor. A serving of wine equals 4 oz. and a serving of beer equals 12 oz. Higher rates of alcohol consumption can raise your triglycerides, according to the American Heart Association (AHA).
1 Alcohol changes the structure of the liver cells and slows down the liver’s ability to process fats. 2  This is the second way that triglycerides begin to accumulate and the levels rise. 3  This is also the beginning of fatty liver disease. 4  The third way alcohol can increase your triglycerides is somewhat indirect. 1 The third way alcohol can increase your triglycerides is somewhat indirect. 2  Typically, people who drink also snack on chips, beer nuts, nachos, pizza and other foods high in salt and fat. 3  This adds extra calories that get processed into triglycerides.
Answers. Best Answer: Yes. Just one drink of alcohol can increase triglycerides in susceptible people. If you have elevated triglycerides and consume alcohol-a reduced intake or not drinking alcohol at all is strongly advised. 
If you have elevated triglycerides and consume alcohol-a reduced intake or not drinking alcohol at all is strongly advised. Just one drink can increase triglycerides in susceptible people. Alcohol is a source of excess calories which are being turned into fat (usually, triglycerides), so the fat levels in your blood go up. But that is only part of the story. Researchers have found that apart from adding calories to the diet, alcohol also prevents the burning of fat.
1 Substitute fish high in omega-3 fatty acids — such as mackerel and salmon — for red meat. 2  Limit how much alcohol you drink. 3  Alcohol is high in calories and sugar and has a particularly potent effect on triglycerides. 4  Even small amounts of alcohol can raise triglyceride levels. High triglycerides are often a sign of other conditions that increase the risk of heart disease and stroke as well, including obesity and metabolic syndrome — a cluster of conditions that includes too much fat around the waist, high blood pressure, high triglycerides, high blood sugar and abnormal cholesterol levels.
1 Alcohol is high in calories and sugar and has a particularly potent effect on triglycerides. 2  Even small amounts of alcohol can raise triglyceride levels. 3  Exercise regularly. 4  Aim for at least 30 minutes of physical activity on most or all days of the week. High triglycerides are often a sign of other conditions that increase the risk of heart disease and stroke as well, including obesity and metabolic syndrome — a cluster of conditions that includes too much fat around the waist, high blood pressure, high triglycerides, high blood sugar and abnormal cholesterol levels.
Triglycerides are simply excess calories stored in the body to provide energy for cell functioning. Elevated triglyceride levels greater than 150 mg/dL can contribute to the hardening of the artery walls, which in turn can increase your risk for heart disease and stroke. Recommended Intake. If you drink alcoholic beverages and have high triglycerides, alcohol reduction can go along way toward bringing these levels back to normal. For best results, the Cleveland Clinic recommends limiting your intake to just 5 oz.
Drinking alcohol can increase your triglyceride level in several ways: 1  Alcohol is extra calories that are quickly metabolized by the body. 2  Alcohol changes the structure of the liver cells and slows down the liver’s ability to process fats. 3  The third way alcohol can increase your triglycerides is somewhat indirect. 1 The third way alcohol can increase your triglycerides is somewhat indirect. 2  Typically, people who drink also snack on chips, beer nuts, nachos, pizza and other foods high in salt and fat. 3  This adds extra calories that get processed into triglycerides.