The reason we need to save or conserve an ecosystem is because they are all interdependent, if one ecosystem is thrown off balance it causes a domino affect down the food chain/web. We thus need to save the ecosystem that supports us inorder to save ourselves from the damage we did to the environment that gives us our food, clothing and shelter. As Walter Kelly said in the Comic Strip Pogo,  We have met the enemy and he is US ! . Source(s):
People. Biodiversity and the protection of our ecosystems is also important to us all as individuals. We can all appreciate the beauty of biodiversity whether we are looking at a view, rock-pooling, going for a walk in a wood or sitting in a garden. Biodiversity is of great importance in order to maintain stable ecosystems. An ecosystem is a group of life forms that live together in a balanced and stable community. If there is a sudden change in that community’s environment, the balance of the community may change which may cause it to be destroyed.
Ecosystem ecology is the integrated study of living (biotic) and non-living (abiotic) components of ecosystems and their interactions within an ecosystem framework. This science examines how ecosystems work and relates this to their components such as chemicals, bedrock, soil, plants, and animals. 
An ecosystem is a community of living organisms in conjunction with the nonliving components of their environment (things like air, water and mineral soil), interacting as a system. These biotic and abiotic components are regarded as linked together through nutrient cycles and energy flows. 
Actually, a natural ecosystem is usually responsible for the water you drink or food you eat. Ecosystems provide “ecosystem services” that are the main cause of agricultural growth and many other processes that benefit humans. Each ecosystem provides unique services to the environments in their area. Without a properly functioning ecosystem, some environmental processes necessary for the continuation of plant and animal life in each ecosystem would be impossible.
Understanding biodiversity is important for the environment, as well as people and medicine as we will explore -. Ecosystems. Biodiversity is of great importance in order to maintain stable ecosystems. An ecosystem is a group of life forms that live together in a balanced and stable community. If there is a sudden change in that community’s environment, the balance of the community may change which may cause it to be destroyed.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: We need to save the ecosystem because we are a part of the ecosystem. All things in the ecosystem are related and dependent on all of the other parts. We thus need to save the ecosystem that supports us inorder to save ourselves from the damage we did to the environment that gives us our food, clothing and shelter. As Walter Kelly said in the Comic Strip Pogo,  We have met the enemy and he is US ! . Source(s): howardpearlman05 · 8 years ago
If ecosystems, such as ocean ecosystems, marine ecosystems, or a desert ecosystem were disrupted, then life would change drastically for the humans and animals in the world. Humans contribute a lot to the destruction of such ecosystems around the world. Each ecosystem provides unique services to the environments in their area. Without a properly functioning ecosystem, some environmental processes necessary for the continuation of plant and animal life in each ecosystem would be impossible.
We're All in This Together. Everything in the natural world is connected. An ecosystem is a community of living and non-living things that work together. Ecosystems have no particular size. An ecosystem can be as large as a desert or a lake or as small as a tree or a puddle. If you have a terrarium, that is an artificial ecosystem. The third type of living organism in an ecosystem is the decomposers. Decomposers are plants and animals that break down dead plants and animals into organic materials that go back into the soil, which is where we started!
Ecosystem services are the benefits that people obtain from ecosystems. Ecosystem services are indispensable to the wellbeing of all people, everywhere in the world. They include provisioning, regulating, and cultural services that directly affect people, and supporting services needed to maintain the other services. 