The excess accumulation of salts, typically most pronounced at the soil surface, can result in salt-affected soils. Salts may rise to the soil surface by capillary transport from a salt-laden water table and then accumulate due to evaporation. Soil salinity is the salt content in the soil; the process of increasing the salt content is known as salinization. Salts occur naturally within soils and water. Salination can be caused by natural processes such as mineral weathering or by the gradual withdrawal of an ocean.
Salts dissolved from the soil accumulate at the soil surface and are deposited on the ground and at the base of the fence post. Soil salinity is the salt content in the soil; the process of increasing the salt content is known as salinization. Salts occur naturally within soils and water. Salination can be caused by natural processes such as mineral weathering or by the gradual withdrawal of an ocean.
7.1 Salinization. A soil may be rich in salts because the parent rock from which it was formed contains salts. Sea water is another source of salts in low-lying areas along the coast. A very common source of salts in irrigated soils is the irrigation water itself. Most irrigation waters contain some salts. After irrigation, the water added to the soil is used by the crop or evaporates directly from the moist soil. The salt, however, is left behind in the soil. If not removed, it accumulates in the soil; this process is called salinization (see Fig.
2.1 Origin of salts. The presence of excess salts on the soil surface and in the root zone characterizes all saline soils (Plate 1). The main source of all salts in the soil is the primary minerals in the exposed layer of the earths crust.
In dry regions salts may accumulate, leading to naturally saline soils. This is the case, for example, in large parts of Australia. Human practices can increase the salinity of soils by the addition of salts in irrigation water. Soil salinity is the salt content in the soil; the process of increasing the salt content is known as salinization. Salts occur naturally within soils and water. Salination can be caused by natural processes such as mineral weathering or by the gradual withdrawal of an ocean.
Rainwater contains small amounts of salt, but over time, salt deposited by rain can accumulate. Wind-transported materials from soil or lake surfaces are another source. Poor-quality irrigation water also contributes to salt accumulation in irrigated soils. 
Drainage. A common sign of salt problems is the accumulation of salts at the soil surface due to limited percolation in compacted and/or clayey soils. Soluble salts move with the soil water. Deep percolation of water down through the soil profile moves salt out of the rooting zone. 
Salts may accumulate on the soil surface because they can-not leach out of the root zone.Plants can also be damaged by salt effects or toxic-ity. In saline and saline-sodic soils, high concentrations of soluble salts reduce the amount of available water for plants to use. This phenomenon may not occur in very sandy soils. because they lack clay content. Salt problems. When salts accumulate in soils, problems arise for. two main reasons: the soil becomes less permeable, and the salt damages or kills the plants.