By the 1960s the government saw a need to regulate the collection of rocks and minerals on public lands. Visitors to the Mojave Desert often ask where they can rockhound. Perhaps the best source of information is rock, gem, and mineral groups found in communities throughout southern California. Libraries, bookstores, and gem and mineral shows are also very good sources of published information
The Mojave Desert is often referred to as the high desert, in contrast to the low desert, the Sonoran Desert to the south. The Mojave Desert has not historically supported a fire regime because of low fuel loads and connectivity. However, in the last few decades, invasive annual plants (e.g., Bromus spp., Schismus spp., Brassica spp.) have facilitated fire; which has significantly altered many areas of the desert.
Higher elevations above 2,000 feet (610 m) in the Mojave are commonly referred to as the High Desert; however, Death Valley is the lowest elevation in North America at 282 feet (86 m) below sea level and is one of the Mojave Desert's more notorious places. The Mojave Desert has not historically supported a fire regime because of low fuel loads and connectivity. However, in the last few decades, invasive annual plants (e.g., Bromus spp., Schismus spp., Brassica spp.) have facilitated fire; which has significantly altered many areas of the desert.
DesertUSA Articles & Location Information. Rocks are all around us. They make up the backbones of hills and mountains and the foundations of plains and valleys. Beneath the soil you walk on and the deep layers of soft mud that cover the ocean basins is a basement of hard rock and minerals. Below is a listing of the many factors that make up the deserts of the Southwest.
While most of the Mojave Desert is sparsely populated, several large cities can be found there including Lancaster, Palmdale and Victorville in California, Henderson and Las Vegas (the largest) in Nevada, as well as St. George in Utah. The Mojave Desert has not historically supported a fire regime because of low fuel loads and connectivity. However, in the last few decades, invasive annual plants (e.g., Bromus spp., Schismus spp., Brassica spp.) have facilitated fire; which has significantly altered many areas of the desert.
Rocks in Kern County consist of all three basic types. Igneous, Metamorphic, and Sedimentary. Each rock type can be interlaced with the other types. Igneous rocks in Kern County are of both deep and surface volcanic material. In the El Paso Mountains and throughout the Mojave Desert and Great Basin Desert many of the mountains are comprised of basalt which exploded out of the earth by volcanic action. There are few remnants of surface volcanic activity in Kern County's portion of the Sierra. 
The Mojave Desert (pronounced: /mɵˈhɑːviː/ mo-hah-vee) is a rain shadow, mostly high desert area, that occupies a significant portion of southeastern California and smaller parts of central California, southern Nevada, southwestern Utah and northwestern Arizona in the United States. The Mojave Desert has not historically supported a fire regime because of low fuel loads and connectivity. However, in the last few decades, invasive annual plants (e.g., Bromus spp., Schismus spp., Brassica spp.) have facilitated fire; which has significantly altered many areas of the desert.
Mojave Desert Geology The study of the history of the physical development of the structure, content and life of the earth by application of the natural sciences to the physical formations found inside and on the surface of the earth. Natural Features & Formations Geologically, a formation is a natural body of earth, such as an outcrop or deposit with distinctive and characteristic properties allowing ... Introduction to Desert Geology Since the Precambrian Era, the Mojave Desert has experienced many different phases over almost incomprehensible ...
Shaping the Classic American Desert. Despite its archetypal status, the Mojave does not really fit the classic image of a desert. For example, it contains sand dunes only in limited areas, and is characterized by parched mountains that rise abruptly from alternating plains, or basins. The Mojave's mountains are in fact burying themselves in their own debris as storm-driven rocks and boulders pour from canyons, spreading out to build gigantic alluvial fans. Where several deposits join, they form bajadas, long, sedimentary slopes sprinkled with cacti and creosote bush.
Rock Classification How rocks are classified ... Rocks, Minerals, Crystals & Ores A tour of a few ore houses ... Land Formation & Erosion Discussions of landform development applicable to the desert in general as well as the Mojave National Preserve. Natural Features & Formations Geologically, a formation is a natural body of earth, such as an outcrop or deposit with distinctive and characteristic properties allowing ... Introduction to Desert Geology Since the Precambrian Era, the Mojave Desert has experienced many different phases over almost incomprehensible ...