A microbiota is the ecological community of commensal, symbiotic and pathogenic microorganisms that literally share our body space. Joshua Lederberg coined the term, emphasising the importance of microorganisms inhabiting the human body in health and disease.
Microbiota. A collection or community of microbes. Microbiome. Some use “microbiome” to mean all the microbes in a community. We and others use it to mean the full collection of genes of all the microbes in a community. The human microbiome (all of our microbes’ genes) can be considered a counterpart to the human genome (all of our genes). The ...
The Common Fund's Human Microbiome Project (HMP) is developing research resources to enable the study of the microbial communities that live in and on our bodies and the roles they play in human health and disease. Read More...
For every one human gene we have, there are 100 associated genes within our microbiome. More than 100 trillion microorganisms live in our gut, mouth, skin and other mucosal surfaces of our bodies.
Some use “microbiome” to mean all the microbes in a community. We and others use it to mean the full collection of genes of all the microbes in a community. The human microbiome (all of our microbes’ genes) can be considered a counterpart to the human genome (all of our genes). The genes in our microbiome outnumber the genes in our genome by about 100 to 1.
The human microbiome, the collection of trillions of microbes living in and on the human body, is not random, and scientists believe that it plays a role in many basic life processes.
And we need ways of regularly monitoring a person’s microbiome to understand how its members flicker over time, and whether certain communities are more steadfast than others. Our microbes are truly part of us, and just as we are vast in our variety, so, too, are they.
Microbiome. Some use “microbiome” to mean all the microbes in a community. We and others use it to mean the full collection of genes of all the microbes in a community. The human microbiome (all of our microbes’ genes) can be considered a counterpart to the human genome (all of our genes). The genes in our microbiome outnumber the genes in our genome by about 100 to 1.