Thea is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 1 syllable and is pronounced Thea. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 776 in baby name popularity for girls with 359 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Thea Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Thea has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Thea to other names. Thea is a diminutive (nickname) of Theodora. Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own.
Thia /thia/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name. Thia's roots are Greek and Spanish, and the name Thia means flowery; goddess; aunt. Thia is a variant transcription of Anthea (Greek): Latin spelling of Greek Antheia. Thia is also a form of Thea (Greek): short transcription of names like Althea. Thia is also used as a variant of Tia (Spanish). Thia is also an unusual surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Prominent alternative forms of Thia (not in Top 1000) are Ann (#945 the previous year) , Tea, Thea (#776) , Tia, Tiana (#554) and Tiara. Variants like Anthoula are seldom used.
Thea (also written Theia) is the Greek goddess of light. She is the daughter of Ouranos (heaven) and Gaia (earth), the wife of Hyperion (Titan god of light), and mother of Helios (the sun), Eos (the dawn), and Selene (the moon). 
Thea is the Anglicized spelling of Theia, the Titan of sight and the shining light of the clear blue sky. She is the consort of Hyperion, and mother of Helios, Selene, and Eos. 
More About Swedish Name: Thea. Thea is used main in the English, German and Scandinavian languages. It is derived from Old Greek origins. It also means God`s divine gift . Name is a short form of Greek name Theodora. Thea is used main in the English, German and Scandinavian languages. It is derived from Old Greek origins. It also means God`s divine gift . Name is a short form of Greek name Theodora. 
Theia is the Titan of sight and the shining light of the clear blue sky. She is the consort of Hyperion, and mother of Helios, Selene, and Eos. The name is more familiar in its Anglicized version, Thea. 
Thea (#776) and Tiana (#554) are two of the more trendy names for newborns in this compilation, and there is a rekindling in baby name usage for Thea. Shown below is a comparison of the popularity of the girl name Thia and affiliated names. Thia is also an unusual surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Prominent alternative forms of Thia (not in Top 1000) are Ann (#945 the previous year) , Tea, Thea (#776) , Tia, Tiana (#554) and Tiara. Variants like Anthoula are seldom used.
Greek Meaning: The name Thea is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Thea is: Goddess; godly. Also as abbreviation of names like Althea and Dorothea. The mythological Thea was Greek goddess of light and mother of the sun, moon and dawn. American Meaning: The name Thea is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Thea is: Goddess; godly. Also as abbreviation of names like Althea and Dorothea. The mythological Thea was Greek goddess of light and mother of the sun, moon and dawn. 
Thea /thea/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name is pronounced THEE-ah. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Thea is goddess. Short form of names like Althea, Mathea and Dorothea (Greek) gift of God. Mythology: the Greek goddess of light; mother of the sun, moon, and dawn. Actress T a Leoni. 