And yes, there are cannibalistic ants: some will attack and eat other—smaller—ant species. Nuts and seeds are among other protein sources for ants, and ants are credited with dispersing the seeds of a number of tropical plants. Cheese, breadcrumbs, pet food—if they come across it, ants will eat it. Contrary to common belief, though, the carpenter ants that often find their way into our kitchens don’t actually eat wood. They do dig their way into it to build their nests, but at mealtime they look for sweets or insects.
Some species of ants are predatory and will feed on other insects for food. This includes just about any insect they come across. Ants will also scavenge meat from larger prey, like rodents or fish, or other fallen animals when they can. Sugars & Fruits. Most ants will eat sugary foods when they can find it, for some, it is their sole source of food. In nature this usually comes in the form of nectar and other liquid secretions from plants and flowers. Honeydew secretions from aphids and other plant-eating creatures, like caterpillars; fruit, and other sweet plants
They can eat plants, turning the plant matter into energy or they can eat meat. Different species of ants prefer different types of food. Some eat other insects and dead animals that they come across, while others eat sugar, fruits, seeds, oils, vegetables and other sources of proteins. Ants will utilize scouts to locate food and then lay down a trail for the rest to follow back to it. The answer to the question what do ants eat is a simple one--they will eat almost anything. They are omnivorous, meaning that animals and vegetables are in their diet. Ants are particular fond of sugars and also need water to survive. Here is a look at what ants eat and some of their dietary habits.
Ants feed on a large range of foods, from engine oil at the side of a road, to other ant species. Most ant species are omnivorous and eat seeds, nectar, and other invertebrates. Army ants are carnivorous, they hunt, kill and eat prey such as worms, spiders and even sometimes small vertebrates like lizards. 
Ants feed on different types of food, including starches, meats, fats, and sweets. Many ants also feed on honeydew, a sweet liquid produced by aphids and scale insects. Knowledge of ant food and nesting preferences is very important in controlling ant colonies. It is best to have these ants identified by an expert. Foods: They feed on a wide variety of foods, especially those containing grease or fats. They also feed on many types of sweets, dead insects, toothpaste, soap and other foods that other ants rarely attack. They often seek out water in kitchens and bathrooms.
Foods: Other insects, both living and dead. They also feed on meats or sweets, including honeydew, syrup, honey, sugar, and jelly. Carpenter ants DO NOT eat wood; they chew wood into sawdust in the process of creating galleries and tunnels. It is best to have these ants identified by an expert. Foods: They feed on a wide variety of foods, especially those containing grease or fats. They also feed on many types of sweets, dead insects, toothpaste, soap and other foods that other ants rarely attack. They often seek out water in kitchens and bathrooms.
ants and snail eating orange. Some species, such as the common pavement ant, prefer meats and greasy foods. Insects, dead or alive, are protein-rich banquet fare for many species. Aggressive carpenter and fire ants have been known to prey on eggs, baby birds, and even mice. Cheese, breadcrumbs, pet food—if they come across it, ants will eat it. Contrary to common belief, though, the carpenter ants that often find their way into our kitchens don’t actually eat wood. They do dig their way into it to build their nests, but at mealtime they look for sweets or insects.
Ants are omnivours, and can eat just about anything a person can eat. This includes all of the four food groups and just about anything else in your kitchen that is left out! That means fruits, vegetables, meats, dairy, sugars, oils, herbs, nuts, juice, etc. are all on the menu for ants. Sugars & Fruits. Most ants will eat sugary foods when they can find it, for some, it is their sole source of food. In nature this usually comes in the form of nectar and other liquid secretions from plants and flowers. Honeydew secretions from aphids and other plant-eating creatures, like caterpillars; fruit, and other sweet pl