1 If you are using over-the-counter Zantac to prevent heartburn, you should take it 30 to 60 minutes before eating or drinking foods or beverages that cause heartburn (up to twice a day). 2  Take Zantac at the same time(s) each day to maintain an even level of the drug in your blood. Erosive Esophagitis. Zantac was studied as a treatment for erosive esophagitis (damage to the lining of the esophagus, often due to stomach acid), and healing was seen in 84 percent of people taking Zantac, compared to 58 percent of people not taking the drug.
The Zantac is working. A: Zantac (raniditine) is a medication that is used to treat various conditions of the esophagus and stomach, including acid reflux. Zantac is part of a group of medications call H2 blockers. There is a chemical called histamine, found in the stomach, that causes acid to be released
1 If you are using over-the-counter ranitidine to prevent heartburn, you should take it 30 to 60 minutes before eating or drinking foods that cause heartburn (up to twice a day). 2  Take ranitidine at the same time(s) each day to maintain an even level of the drug in your blood. Ranitidine Dosing for GERD or Erosive Esophagitis. For treating GERD or erosive esophagitis in children or babies, the ranitidine dose is 5 mg to 10 mg per kg (a little less than 2.5 mg to 5 mg per pound) total per day. This is usually split up into two doses per day.
The stomach produces two to three times more acid between 10 p.m. and 2 a.m. than at any other time of day. If youayouâ re on an-acid Reducing h2 medication such As pepcid Or, zantac take it 30 minutes before. dinner The stomach produces two to three times more acid between 10 p.m. and 2 a.m. than at any other time of day. If youayouâ re on an-acid Reducing h2 medication such As pepcid Or, zantac take it 30 minutes before. Dinner this controls stomach acid during the overnight, period when secretion reaches its. peak
Ranitidine is a medicine that reduces the amount of acid in the stomach. It is used to treat and prevent heartburn (also known as reflux) and ulcers. It is also used to prevent damage to the stomach from certain medicines and diseases. Ranitidine comes in tablet, liquid, and injection forms. 
It does not matter if you take it before, with or after food. If ranitidine is prescribed twice a day, the best time to take it is in the morning and at bedtime. If ranitidine is prescribed once daily, the best time to take it is at bedtime. If you do not understand the instructions on the box, ask your doctor or pharmacist for help. Ranitidine works by decreasing the amount of acid made by the stomach. This helps reduce pain and also allows an ulcer and/or reflux disease to heal in most people. There is no evidence that this medicine is addictive.
1 Duodenal ulcers (ulcers in the very first part of the intestine after the stomach) -- It can be used to treat a duodenal ulcer and also to prevent ulcers from coming back. 2  Gastric ulcers (stomach ulcers) -- Zantac helps to heal a stomach ulcer and to keep ulcers from returning. 3  Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). Zantac ® (ranitidine hydrochloride) is a medication that is available as both a prescription medicine and an over-the-counter drug. It is used to treat several conditions related to the esophagus, stomach, and intestines. Zantac belongs to a class of drugs known as H2 blockers