Refurbishment is the distribution of products (usually electronics and electricals) that have been previously returned to a manufacturer or vendor for various reasons. Refurbished products are normally tested for functionality and defects before they are sold. The main difference between refurbished and used products is that refurbished products have been tested and verified to function properly, and are thus free of defects, while used products may or may not be defective. Different companies and industries may have different types of refurbished products. Since the electronics industry doesn't have a firm, widely accepted definition of refurbished, its exact meaning may vary from one product to the next, or one company to the next.
In computer technology, refurbished refers to old or used computer equipment that has been restored to like-new working condition and/or appearance. It may also refer to any computer device that has been sent back to the factory to fix a flaw. Refurbished Generally Refers to Hardware. The term typically refers to the hardware components of a computer that have been either replaced with similar components or updated with newer technology than the device originally came with.
Refurbished. Refurbished phones are used phones that have been inspected, tested, and restored to full working condition at a factory or authorized service center. They may feature new housings or other new parts, or they may simply be used phones that have been tested and certified. Home › Glossary ›. Refurbished phones are used phones that have been inspected, tested, and restored to full working condition at a factory or authorized service center.
Seller refurbished. An item that has been restored to working order by the eBay seller or a third party not approved by the manufacturer. This means the item has been inspected, cleaned, and repaired to full working order and is in excellent condition. This item may or may not be in original packaging. The item may be a factory second or a new, unused item with defects. See the seller's listing for full details and description of any imperfections. Manufacturer refurbished. An item that has been professionally restored to working order by a manufacturer or manufacturer-approved vendor.
Part of the Hardware glossary: Refurbish, in everyday language, is to renew or to restore to a new condition and/or appearance. In the computer world, refurbished equipment is not necessarily defective in any way; it may just be old (a relative term in the world of computers). When hardware is refurbished, the components are examined and non-working parts are replaced.
Definition. Servicing and/or renovation of older or damaged equipment to bring it to a workable or better looking condition. Refurbished goods are of older model and usually in worse condition than reconditioned (see reconditioning) goods. See also rebuilding and remanufacturing. 
While refurbished phones have often been used, the term used has a more specific meaning. A used phone is sold as is. It has not been tested or fixed, and it comes with no guarantee. A refurbished phone is different in that it has been tested, repaired if necessary, and it has been cleaned. The first thing to know about a refurbished cell phone is that it is not new, but that does not mean it has been used much. Many people buy a cell phone and then change their minds and return it within a couple of days, even though there is nothing wrong with the phone.
2. refurbished. any abused, broken, defective electronics returned to the manufacturer, retail or online store within the warranty, refund, exchange period and re-sold to unsuspecting consumers in the same miserable condition, believing that the item was restored to factory conditions. 