Major Concepts. 1  Metamorphic rocks can be formed from any rock type: igneous, sedimentary, or existing metamorphic rocks. 2  Involves recrystallization in the solid state, often with little change in overall chemical composition. 3  Driving forces are changes in temperature, pressure, and pore fluids. 
1 Gneiss can be formed from a sedimentary rock such as sandstone or shale, or it can be formed from the metamorphism of the igneous rock granite. 2  Gneiss can be used by man as paving and building stone. 3  Marble is metamorphosed limestone or dolomite. 1 The minerals that compose gneiss are the same as granite. 2  Feldspar is the most important mineral that makes up gneiss along with mica and quartz. 3 
Lesson Summary. All three rock types-igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic-make up a portion of the rock cycle. Igneous rocks are rocks that formed directly from magma and can form either in the earth or on its surface. Igneous rocks can weather and be compressed to form sedimentary rocks, rock made up eroded material broken off of other rocks and cemented together, and both of these can be transformed into metamorphic rock. 
All rocks are made of minerals. Igneous rocks are formed from molten and magma eg. basalt and granite, Sedimentary rocks are mechanically or organically formed eg. sandstone, … limestone and shale and Metamorphic rocks are formed from igneous or sedimentary rocks altered by heat or pressure eg. slate and graphite. 5 people found this useful. Usually it is sedimentary rock that is changed into metamorphic-however it is entirely possible for igneous rock to become metamorphic as well. Metamorphic means different f … orm, and in the geological since it mean rock that has been changed by heat and pressure.
Granite /ˈɡraenɨt/ ˈɡrænɨt is a common type of felsic intrusive igneous rock that is granular and phaneritic in. Texture granites can be predominantly, white, pink or gray in, color depending on their. mineralogy 
Metamorphic rocks can form from either sedimentary or igneous rocks. The sedimentary particles from which a sedimentary rock is formed can be derived from a metamorphic, an igneous, or another sedimentary rock. All three rock types can be melted to form a magma. 
The Earth is covered in a layer of solid rock called the crust. Rocks are either SEDIMENTARY, IGNEOUS, or METAMORPHIC. Almost all rocks made of minerals, but different rocks contain different mixtures of minerals. Granite, for example, consists of quartz, feldspar, and mica. 
Just as evaporation and precipitation are processes that move water through the water cycle, igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic rock-forming processes move rocks through the rock cycle. In this investigation, you ll examine a detailed example of a rock traveling through the rock cycle. The three types of rocks igneous, sedimentary, and metamorphic are all subject to processes that change one rock type into another. The images below show several types of rocks undergoing these processes
Best Answer: Granite is a common and widely occurring type of intrusive, felsic, igneous rock. Granites are usually medium to coarsely crystalline, occasionally with some individual crystals larger than the groundmass forming a rock known as porphyry. This evidence suggests that some granite is not igneous in origin, but metamorphic. Some granite is the oldest known rock on earth. Crystallized at depth, granite masses are exposed at the earth’s surface by crustal movement or by the erosion of overlying rocks.