Breaktime = 1 minute per Breaktime minute. If you feel that 3 miles an hour is your average walking speed then simply deduct some time from the walk. From my experience you will have to be moving quickly and not enjoying the scenery of the walk to maintain 3 mph throughout the whole walk. 
A good average walking pace for a woman is three miles per hour or one mile every twenty minutes. For a man the average speed is three and a half miles per hour. This pace is adequate for healthy living. Walking at this pace for thirty minutes five or six days per week will reduce the risk of heart disease, type two diabetes and reduce anxiety and stress.
Report Inappropriate Comment. GOLDENRODFARM. This is an odd test, one mile in 14 minutes is not a walking test, it is running for me, anything less then 17 minutes is running/jogging, my legs just don't go fast enough at a walk for that without resorting to running. To think someone my age can walk that fast without running is very strange. Goal: Walk one mile as quickly as possible. Execution: We suggest that you DO NOT attempt this test until you are routinely walking for 15 to 20 minutes several times per week. Do not perform this test on a treadmill, as it will skew your results.
1 An average stride is usually somewhere between 2 and 3 feet in length. 2  So on average it takes between 1760 and 2640 steps to complete one mile. 3  To measure your stride mark a distance of 50 feet. 4  Now walk this distance and count your steps. 1 An average fitness walking pace is close to a 15 minute mile. 2  But, a good pace will vary depending on your fitness level, walking technique, walking goals, and terrain. 3  For general fitness walking you should walk at a pace that increases your heart rate, and you can maintain for 30 to 60 minutes. 4  Use the talk test..
The average human speed for a brisk walking pace is about 3.5 MPH. At that rate, it would take just about 27 hours to walk 94 miles. Assume walking for 8 hours a day, that w … ould be three days of walking and mid-morning of the fourth day to reach your destination. 2 people found this useful
No conclusive evidence exists on “average” 1-mile run times, because there is no scientifically agreed-upon average runner. Opinion varies widely, but most anecdotal evidence places the average between seven and 10 minutes per mile for a non-competitive, in-shape runner. 
In general, it is between 3.0 – 3.5 miles per hour which means you can walk one mile in 17 to 20 minutes. At this brisk pace, many people will enjoy the aerobic benefits, such as strengthened cardiovascular system, lower blood pressure, less anxiety and improved overall physical fitness. 
Power walking is a walking technique which utilises the arms as well as the legs to move faster. The average speed for power walking is 4.5 to 5.5 miles per hour. Power walking for fifty or sixty yards of your walk and then reverting to your normal pace will increase your overall speed. Race walking is also a special technique. For a man the average speed is three and a half miles per hour. This pace is adequate for healthy living. Walking at this pace for thirty minutes five or six days per week will reduce the risk of heart disease, type two diabetes and reduce anxiety and stress.
How to take the One-Mile Walk Test. 1. Warm up and stretch for four to five minutes, particularly the leg muscles. Begin to walk slowly and gradually build up to a brisk speed. At the end of the mile note your time in minutes and seconds in a notebook or somewhere else you won t lose. How to use your results with the Walk Training Calendar. The walk training calendar starts with a 15 minute walk twice a week something anyone can do.