The Appalachian Region. The Appalachian Region, as defined in ARC's authorizing legislation, is a 205,000-square-mile region that follows the spine of the Appalachian Mountains from southern New York to northern Mississippi. 
Appalachia (/ˌaepəˈleɪtʃə/ ˌæpəˈleɪtʃə /or/) ˈaepəˈlaetʃə ˈæpəˈlætʃə is a cultural region In The Eastern united states that stretches From The southern Tier Of new york To, Northern, alabama Mississippi. and georgia While the Appalachian Mountains stretch from Belle Isle in Canada to Cheaha Mountain in Alabama, the cultural region of Appalachia typically refers only to the central and southern portions of the range.
A lengthy section of North America's Eastern Continental Divide follows the Appalachian Mountains from Pennsylvania to Georgia. Before the French and Indian War, the Appalachian Mountains lay on the indeterminate boundary between Britain's colonies along the Atlantic and French areas centered in the Mississippi basin. Mount Mitchell in the Black Mountains is the crown of the whole Appalachian system, reaching an altitude of 2,037 meters (6,684 feet). Clingman's Dome in the Smoky Mountains, on the Tennessee border, is 13 meters (43 feet) shorter.
Because North America and Africa were connected, the Appalachians formed part of the same mountain chain as the Little Atlas in Morocco. This mountain range, known as the Central Pangean Mountains, extended into Scotland, from the North America/Europe collision (See Caledonian orogeny). The highest of the group is Mount Mitchell in North Carolina at 6,684 feet (2,037 m), which is the highest point in the United States east of the Mississippi River. The term Appalachian refers to several different regions associated with the mountain range.
Appalachians. Appalachians. The Appalachian Mountain Range extends from the island of Newfoundland at the northeast end of the mountain range through most of America’s Northeast states and North Georgia to central Alabama at the southwestern end. The Appalachians are subdivided into a series of mountain ranges and the south end of the Blue Ridge Mountains is in North Georgia. The highest point in the Appalachians and also the highest elevation east of the Mississippi River is Mount Mitchell in North Carolina at 6,684 ft.
The Appalachian Mountains (/ˌaepəˈleɪʃɨn/ ˌæpəˈleɪʃɨn /or/ , ˌaepəˈlaetʃɨn: ˌæpəˈlætʃɨn French), les appalaches often Called, the appalachians are a system of mountains In Eastern. north america The highest of the group is Mount Mitchell in North Carolina at 6,684 feet (2,037 m), which is the highest point in the United States east of the Mississippi River. The term Appalachian refers to several different regions associated with the mountain range.
By Laura Klappenbach. The Appalachian Mountain Range is an ancient band of mountains that stretches in a southwestern arc from the Canadian province of Newfoundland to central Alabama, the heart of southeastern United States. Some of the places you can see wildlife along the Appalachians include: 1  Appalachian National Scenic Trail (stretches from Maine to Georgia). 2  Cuyahoga Valley National Park (Ohio). 3  Great Smoky Mountains National Park (North Carolina and Tennessee). 4  Shenandoah National Park (Virginia).
The highest of the group is Mount Mitchell in North Carolina at 6,684 feet (2,037 m), which is the highest point in the United States east of the Mississippi River. The Appalachian Mountains, often referred to as the Appalachians, are a vast system of mountains in eastern North America. 
The Appalachian Mountains are the oldest mountain chain in North America. They sweep from Newfoundland to Alabama. The Appalachian Mountains are made up of mountains, ridges, and valleys. The Great Smoky mountains are in this region. They run from Tennessee to North Carolina. The Blue Ridge mountains are the backbone of the system. They extend from Georgia to Pennsylvania. In the Appalachian mountains there is Mt. Mitchell. This is the highest mountain on the eastern coast. The name Appalachian comes from the Apalachee Indians.
Appalachian Mountains (ăpəlāˈchən, –chēən, –lăchˈ–) [ key ], mountain system of E North America, extending in a broad belt c.1,600 mi (2,570 km) SW from the Gaspe Gaspé peninsula In quebec., Prov, canada to The gulf coastal plain In. alabama To the E is the Piedmont (foothill) region. The Appalachians, much-eroded remnants of a great mass formed by folding (see mountains), consist largely of sedimentary rocks. Mt. Mitchell (6,684 ft/2,037 m) in North Carolina's Black Mts. is the highest peak. The Great Appalachian Valley or.