Mandible. The jaw bone. The lower Jawbone in vertebrates; it is hinged to open the mouth.The 'jaw' of vertebrates responsible for crunching down food materials into a swallow-able form. Please contribute to this project, if you have more information about this term feel free to edit this page.
By Jennifer Kennedy. Definition: The term mandible may be used in several ways. It is most often used to refer to the jaw-or the jawbone, or lower jaw in vertebrates. This jaw is hinged to the upper jaw and moves down and up and can be used for crunching or crushing food
Full Definition of MANDIBLE. 1. a: jaw 1a; especially: a lower jaw consisting of a single bone or of completely fused bones b: the lower jaw with its investing soft parts c: either the upper or lower segment of the bill of a bird. 2
Medical Definition of MANDIBLE. 1. a: jaw 1; especially: jaw 1b b: the lower jaw with its investing soft parts. 2. : any of various invertebrate mouthparts serving to hold or bite food materials; especially: either member of the anterior pair of mouth appendages of an arthropod often forming strong biting jaws. 1. a: jaw 1a; especially: a lower jaw consisting of a single bone or of completely fused bones b: the lower jaw with its investing soft parts c: either the upper or lower segment of the bill of a bird.
Mandible also refers to appendages in some arthropods (including crustaceans) and annelids. This pair of appendages is used for holding cutting and grinding food, and are located behind the antennae. The term mandible can also be used to refer to either the upper or lower parts of the bill of a bird. Definition: The term mandible may be used in several ways. It is most often used to refer to the jaw-or the jawbone, or lower jaw in vertebrates.
Definition of MANDIBLE for Kids. 1. : a lower jaw often with its soft parts. 2. : either the upper or lower part of the bill of a bird. 3. : either of a pair of mouth parts of some invertebrates (as an insect) that are usually used for biting. 1. a: jaw 1a; especially: a lower jaw consisting of a single bone or of completely fused bones b: the lower jaw with its investing soft parts c: either the upper or lower segmen
Noun. 1. mandible-the jaw in vertebrates that is hinged to open the mouth. jawbone, jowl, lower jaw, lower jawbone, mandibula, mandibular bone, submaxilla. gnathion-the most inferior point of the mandible in the midline. gonion-the craniometric point on either side at the apex of the lower jaw. mandible. n. 1. (Zoology) the lower jawbone in vertebrates. See jaw 1. 2. (Zoology) either of a pair of mouthparts in insects and other arthropods that are usually used for biting and crushing food. 3. (Zoology) ornithol either the upper or the lower part of the bill, esp the lower part