Gusky says he recently paid $1,575 for a gold bracelet a customer bought 30 years ago for $1,000 during a visit to the Caribbean. The customer was absolutely stunned, Gusky says. It could be the right time to recycle your gold jewelry. The price of gold tends to rise when the economy is doing poorly. It could be the right time to recycle your gold jewelry.The price of gold tends to rise when the economy is doing poorly. Over the last two years, gold prices have risen about 70 percent. Though the price has dipped since reaching record highs, gold still shines.And it is infinitely recyclable
Thus, we have to convert ounces to grams to find out the cost of the gold in a particular piece of jewelry. One troy ounce equals 31.1 grams. If pure gold is selling for $1700 per ounce in the metal markets, then one gram is going for $54.66 ($1700/31.1g). To have a rule of thumb on what mark-up to expect, think a minimum of double. If the cost of a chain is $500.00 expect to pay $1,000.00 or more. A machine made chain will have a cost of the gold, plus alloyed metals, plus labor to make it.
We Pay More Than Our Competitors — Guaranteed. The price of gold is at a record high and continues to climb daily. This means that there has never been a better opportunity to cash in on you old or unwanted jewelry. Cash for Gold USA guarantees that it will pay more than anyone else in the cash for gold industry. 
Rising gold prices have prompted many to try to cash in. Fears that the nation will default on its debts has pushed the price of gold to $1,616 an ounce, up 18% since the beginning of the year. That's prompted a lot of hard-up consumers to earn extra cash by selling unwanted jewelry. 
If you're selling Gold Coins a reasonable settlement would be 90% of the market value. If you are near The Los Angeles area, National Gold Market is located in Pasadena, California. They pay 75% to 80% for Gold Jewelry and 90% for Gold Coins. You can walk in and get your items tested for free to determine the Karat metal purity and the gram weight. The company will give you a quote based off the current Live Prices on the “LA Cash for Gold” website. 
Best Answer: The quoted price of gold ($1,100 plus per ounce) is for pure gold (24 carats). Most reputed jewellers will pay you the current market price for the pure gold portion of the jewellery. However, since most jewellery in North America is made from lower quality gold (often 18 carats or less), you will get less than $1,100/ounce. As for pawn brokers, they may pay whatever they can get away with.
The Karat (K) of your gold. This is the purity of your gold jewelry. 24 Karat (K) is considered pure or 100% gold. 12K is 50% gold. In America, most jewelry is 14K which contains 58.50% gold. When you are selling gold, we test it to determine what Karat it is.
A high street jewelry store will pay about 60% to 65% of the day’s gold price for scrap. In theory they should be willing to pay more than this as jeweler's gold (ie 18k or 14k) is sold at a small premium, generally about 5%, over the melt value. You can also try craigslist which is free. Selling gold as estate jewelry and direct to a buyer will give you the best price, and you should be able to get close to the current price of gold. We conducted a poll on the price that people would pay for a 14k gold chain which contained $1000 worth of gold. $981 was average price given by more than 500 respondents to the poll. As you can see from this survey on ways to buy gold, most people pay a substantial premium when buying small quantities of physical gold