1 It is best to store eggs in the case or carton. 2  When kept refrigerated in their raw shells, eggs last up to 4 to 5 weeks without significant loss of quality. 3  But remember, the clock on those 4 to 5 weeks starts the moment eggs are laid. 4  To be safe, keep refrigerated raw eggs in shell for no more than three weeks. 1 When kept refrigerated in their raw shells, eggs last up to 4 to 5 weeks without significant loss of quality. 2  But remember, the clock on those 4 to 5 weeks starts the moment eggs are laid. 3  To be safe, keep refrigerated raw eggs in shell for no more than three weeks.
RE: How long can seperated egg whites sit in the refrigerator before using them? i used the yokes in a recipe on thursday night and today is sunday are the yokes still good? In Europe they actually let the egg whites sit out without refrigeration for days so the water evaporates and you have more protein for the amount of liquid. I do not actually recommend this, but your 3 day old refrigerated whites are definitely still good. Source(s):
Undo. grainlady_ks. According to the USDA, raw egg whites in the refrigerator are good for 2-4 days, 12 months frozen. Check the link below for more information, especially the egg storage chart towards the end of the page. -Grainlady. Here is a link that might be useful: USDA Egg Fact Sheet. 
Expert answer: We tell consumers to look to the egg carton sell-by dates to judge freshness. The USDA says that the date can be no further ahead than 30 days after the packing date. Your store can choose any day within that 30 days to date the eggs. If you don't find a date on the carton, using the eggs within three weeks of the carton date should allow them to be used within optimum quality, meaning the yolk will be high and upstanding, and the white will be tall and firm. 
1 To be safe, keep refrigerated raw eggs in shell for no more than three weeks. 2  Raw egg whites can be refrigerated up to four days. 3  Cooked Egg Dishes. 4  No cooked egg dish should be left out at room temperature for more than two hours. 1 When kept refrigerated in their raw shells, eggs last up to 4 to 5 weeks without significant loss of quality. 2  But remember, the clock on those 4 to 5 weeks starts the moment eggs are laid. 3  To be safe, keep refrigerated raw eggs in shell for no more than three weeks.
Egg Yolks. 1  It is best to store eggs in the case or carton. 2  When kept refrigerated in their raw shells, eggs last up to 4 to 5 weeks without significant loss of quality. 3  But remember, the clock on those 4 to 5 weeks starts the moment eggs are laid. 1 When kept refrigerated in their raw shells, eggs last up to 4 to 5 weeks without significant loss of quality. 2  But remember, the clock on those 4 to 5 weeks starts the moment eggs are laid. 3  To be safe, keep refrigerated raw eggs in shell for no more than three weeks.
Best Answer: If you are asking about the whites, they last for a very long time as long as you keep them covered. I work for a European Pastry chef, and after making several hundred creme brulee you can imagine we have a lot of leftover egg whites. In Europe they actually let the egg whites sit out without refrigeration for days so the water evaporates and you have more protein for the amount of liquid. I do not actually recommend this, but your 3 day old refrigerated whites are definitely still good. Source(s):
1 Raw egg whites can be refrigerated up to four days. 2  Cooked Egg Dishes. 3  No cooked egg dish should be left out at room temperature for more than two hours. 4  Allow no more than 30 minutes to one hour to elapse when serving dishes outside in weather hotter than 85A°85â.  f 1 When kept refrigerated in their raw shells, eggs last up to 4 to 5 weeks without significant loss of quality. 2  But remember, the clock on those 4 to 5 weeks starts the moment eggs are laid. 3  To be safe, keep refrigerated raw eggs in shell for no more than three weeks.