Salmonella enterica has 6 subspecies, and each subspecies has associated serovars that differ by antigenic specificity. There are over 2500 serovars for S. enterica. Salmonella bongori used to be considered a subspecies of S. enterica, but it is now the other species in the Salmonella genus. Most of the human pathogenic Salmonella serovars belong to the S. enterica subsp. enterica subspecies.
Typhoid fever is an acute illness associated with fever caused by the Salmonella typhi bacteria. It can also be caused by Salmonella paratyphi, a related bacterium that usually causes a less severe illness. 
Signs & Symptoms. Most persons infected with Salmonella bacteria develop diarrhea, fever, and abdominal cramps 12 to 72 hours after infection. The illness usually lasts 4 to 7 days, and most persons recover without treatment. However, in some persons, the diarrhea may be so severe that the patient needs to be hospitalized. 
In the salmonella Typhi and enteric diseases, a distinction is. Cause of Typhi salmonellosis (Typhi fever, paraTyphi A, B and C), Salmonella enterica serotype typhi or paratyphi A, B and C include salmonella to the family of Enterobacteriaceae. 
Main article: Salmonellosis. Most cases of salmonellosis are caused by food infected with S. enterica, which often infects cattle and poultry, though also other animals such as domestic cats and hamsters have also been shown to be sources of infection to humans. Salmonella bongori used to be considered a subspecies of S. enterica, but it is now the other species in the Salmonella genus. Most of the human pathogenic Salmonella serovars belong to the S. enterica subsp. enterica subspecies.
Salmonella Typhi. 1  Salmonella Typhi can only infect humans. 2  It causes typhoid fever. 3  It is common in developing countries where hygiene is poor and the water can be contaminated with sewage. 4  The symptoms of typhoid fever include fever, weakness, stomach pains, headache or loss of appetite. 1 Salmonella Typhimurium and Salmonella Typhi are closely related. 2  However, there are distinct differences in the type and severity of infectious disease they both cause. 3  This difference in infections is the result of differences in their genetic makeup.
Typhoid fever is a blood infection caused by consumption of food or water contaminated by the bacterium Salmonella enterica, subspecies enterica, serovar Typhi; commonly referred to as S almonella typhi or S. typhi. Sometimes you will see the serovar capitalized, i.e., Salmonella Typhi. Typhoid fever may cause a sudden onset of several different symptoms, including fever, headache, nausea, constipation, diarrhea, rose spots across the abdomen, and loss of appetite. Destruction of internal organs is the leading cause of death associated with this illness. Fortunately, typhoid fever is easily controlled.
Typhoid fever is a type of enteric fever along with paratyphoid fever. The cause is the bacterium Salmonella typhi, also known as Salmonella enterica serotype typhi, growing in the intestines and blood. Typhoid is spread by eating or drinking food or water contaminated with the feces of an infected person. Typhoid fever, also known simply as typhoid, is a symptomatic bacterial infection due to Salmonella typhi. Symptoms may vary from mild to severe and usually begin six to thirty days after exposure. Often there is a gradual onset of a high fever over several days
Salmonella enterica (formerly Salmonella choleraesuis) is a rod-shaped, flagellated, facultative anaerobic, Gram-negative bacterium and a member of the genus Salmonella. A number of its serovars are serious human pathogens. Salmonella bongori used to be considered a subspecies of S. enterica, but it is now the other species in the Salmonella genus. Most of the human pathogenic Salmonella serovars belong to the S. enterica subsp. enterica subspecies.