One-week treatment of chlamydia-positive urethritis with doxycycline and tetracycline chloride in males. Juvakoski T, Lauharanta J, Kanerva L, Lassus A. 65 patients with chlamydia-positive urethritis were treated with doxycycline and 59 with tetracycline chloride 1 g/day for one week. All steady sexual partners of these patients were treated with the same regimen during the same period. 
Q: My dermatologist has put me on a tetracycline for my acne. A: Tetracycline is an antibiotic that fights bacteria in the body. It can be used to treat many different bacterial infections, such as urinary tract infections, acne, gonorrhea, chlamydia, and others. Common side effects include mild nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or stomach upset. Tetracycline has commonly been used to treat acne and other skin infections; respiratory tract infections such as pneumonia; genital and urinary infections; and Helicobacter pylori (the bacteria that can lead to stomach ulcers).
Tetracycline belongs to a group of medicines called tetracycline antibiotics. It is also known as a broad-spectrum antibiotic and may be used to treat a wide range of infections caused by bacteria, these include: 1  respiratory tract infections such as pneumonia, bronchitis or whooping cough. 2  urinary tract infections. 3  sexually transmitted diseases such as chlamydia, gonorrhoea or syphili
However, tetracycline (the antibiotic) is not effective in treating chalmydia or gonorrhea and is not used for this because of the increased likelihood of breeding resistance in these organisms. Tetracycline is the name of a particular antibiotic, as well as the name for a class of antibiotics which include doxycycline (used widely to treat chlamydia).
The dosage would be 100 mg twice a day for 7 days. I would encourage you not to attempt to self-treat chlamydia without a culture and a definitive diagnosis. I am including this link for more information about chlamydia as well as tetracycline. http://www.emedicine.com/med/topic340.htm. http://www.emedicinehealth.com/chlamydia/page6_em.htm.
He has me on a 500 mg once a day. A: Tetracycline is an antibiotic that fights bacteria in the body. It can be used to treat many different bacterial infections, such as urinary tract infections, acne, gonorrhea, chlamydia, and others. Common side effects include mild nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, or stomach upset. Tetracycline has commonly been used to treat acne and other skin infections; respiratory tract infections such as pneumonia; genital and urinary infections; and Helicobacter pylori (the bacteria that can lead to stomach ulcers).
This medicine is a tetracycline antibiotic. Minocycline (minocin) is used to treat infections, such as urinary tract infections, acne and chlamydia. ...Read more. Antibiotic treatment: Psittacosis is pretty rare, but treatment is easy. The standard antibiotics used for chlamydial infections are effective, such as a tetracycline (e.g. doxycycline or minocycline) or a macrolide antibiotic (e.g. azithromycin, clarithromycin, or erythromycin).
Tetracycline is an antibiotic that fights bacteria in the body. Tetracycline is used to treat many different bacterial infections, such as urinary tract infections, acne, gonorrhea, chlamydia, and others. Tetracycline may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide. 
Despite this, they remain the treatment of choice for some specific indications. Tetracycline is used to treat many different bacterial infections, such as urinary tract infections, acne, gonorrhea, chlamydia, and others. Tetracycline may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide. Therapeutic uses of Tetracycline. 