The house would be built with an open area in the center, the courtyard, where most of the cooking and eating took place. There would be rooms for entertaining as well as an atrium. The homes were frequently made of brick or sandstone blocks, with tiled roofs and growing plants around. Some homes of the wealthy had offices if needed, and maybe even a private bath. There would be paintings, sculptures and mosaics around. The rich had gracious homes, each with an entrance atrium, which was the center of family life. For those who were not quite as rich, there were apartment buildings, some quite nice ones, and there were shabby tenements for the poor. Narrow streets wound between the seven hills, lined with homes and businesses.
In ancient Rome, the domus was the type of house occupied by the upper classes and some wealthy freedmen during the Republican and Imperial eras. The word dom in modern Slavic languages means home and is a cognate of the Latin word, going back to Proto-Indo-European. Along with a domus in the city, many of the richest families of ancient Rome also owned a separate country house known as a villa.
They didn't have toilets. They had to use public latrines(toilets). The upper class Romans (patricians) lived very differently. Their homes were single family homes, which in ancient Rome meant the great grandparents, grandparents, parents, and kids of one family lived in a home together. Homes were made, quite often, of brick with red tile roofs, with rooms arranged around a central courtyard. In ancient Rome, had courtyards in which there were fountains. The faucets were decorated with carvings of men and animals, and beautiful patterns were made out of mosaic. Fountains which captured the originality of the household were created.
Roman Houses. Roman houses were so well built, if you were rich, that many examples of Roman houses exist throughout the Roman Empire. If you were poor in Rome, you lived in simple flats or apartments – the inside of these places was symbolic of your lack of wealth. 
Ancient Rome was an Italic civilization that began on the Italian Peninsula as early as the 8th century BC. The major divisions of the law of ancient Rome, as contained within the Justinian and Theodosian law codes, consisted of Ius Civile, Ius Gentium, and Ius Naturale. The Ius Civile (Citizen Law) was the body of common laws that applied to Roman citizens. The Praetores Urbani (sg.
As well as those built in Italy, there were Roman houses built in Greece, Africa, Britain, and many other places. The main room in the house was the atrium, a windowless room with a space in the ceiling (the compluvium) through which rain fell into the impluvium, a hollow space in the floor. More elaborate houses had concrete floors, often with a mosaic surfaces. In the upper stories floors were made of wood, sometimes with a layer of concrete on top. Roman roofs varied, with some flat and some sloped. The earliest roof was a thatch of straw, later replaced by shingles and finally tiles.