Lac Courte Oreilles in situated in Sawyer county approximately 8 miles from the city of Hayward. The eastern side of the lake is the location of the Lac Courte Oreilles Indian reservation while a residential community sets on the northern side.
A brief history of time, treaties, and traditions. The Lac Courte Oreilles Reservation was established by the treaty of 1854 securing an amount of land the size of three townships (69,000 acres) for the Lac Courte Oreilles band of Chippewa (a.k.a.Ojibwa) Indians.
We, the Anishinabeg, the people of Odaawaa-Zaaga'iganiing, the Lac Courte Oreilles Tribe, will sustain our heritage, preserving our past, strengthening our present, and embracing our future.
The reservation of the Lac Courte Oreilles (LCO) Band of Lake Superior Chippewa is located within beautiful mixed forest woods, where the broad leaf and great pine trees create extremely diversified ecosystems.
LCO Newsletter Read the monthly Lac Courte Oreilles Tribal Newspaper online covering news, events, photo ops and government news from LCO. LCO Constitution Read the entire LCO Tribal Constitution or download the full amended copy. Elder News Stay involved with news from the LCO Elders each month.
The Lac Courte Oreilles Tribe is one of six bands of the Lake Superior Band of Chippewa Indians who entered into treaties with the United States in 1837, 1842, and 1854.
The Lac Courte Oreilles band, along with others were targeted for removal. During the winter of 1850-51, a deceptive scheme was orchestrated against the Wisconsin Chippewa to dislodge them from the homelands and remove them to the west.
Lac Courte Oreilles is a 5139 acre lake located in Sawyer County. It has a maximum depth of 90 feet. Visitors have access to the lake from public boat landings. Fish include Musky, Panfish, Largemouth Bass, Smallmouth Bass, Northern Pike and Walleye. The lake's water clarity is very clear.
We, the Anishinabeg, the people of Odaawaa-Zaaga'iganiing, the Lac Courte Oreilles Tribe, will sustain our heritage, preserving our past, strengthening our present, and embracing our future. We will defend our inherent sovereign rights and safeguard Mother Earth.
LCO Newsletter Read the monthly Lac Courte Oreilles Tribal Newspaper online covering news, events, photo ops and government news from LCO. LCO Constitution Read the entire LCO Tribal Constitution or download the full amended copy.