Butter a 1 quart casserole dish. 2. Layer 1/2 of the potatoes into bottom of the prepared casserole dish. Top with the onion slices, and add the remaining potatoes. Season with salt and pepper to taste. 3. In a medium-size saucepan, melt butter over medium heat. Mix in the flour and salt, and stir constantly with a whisk for one minute. Stir in milk.
[ɡʁatɛ̃]) is a widespread culinary technique in which an ingredient is topped with a browned crust, often using breadcrumbs, grated cheese, egg and/or butter. Gratin originated in French cuisine and is usually prepared in a shallow dish of some kind. gratin). In addition to the well-known potato dishes such as Gratin dauphinois, cooking au gratin is a widely used cooking technique in the preparation of numerous dishes including many meat, fish, vegetable and pasta dishes, fennel, leeks, crab meat, celeriac and aubergines (eggplant).
Diana Miller / Getty Images. In the culinary arts, the word gratin (pronounced GRAH-tin) can refer to a recipe that is prepared in the au gratin style, which means that it's topped with seasoned breadcrumbs and cheese and then baked. A recipe prepared au gratin is sometimes called a gratinee (gratinée pronounced-grah-TEE). nay The word gratin can also refer to the dish in which a gratinee gratinée is. Baked a gratin dish is flat and shaped like an, oval with handles on each. end
Cooking au gratin is a technique rather than exclusively a preparation of potatoes. Gratin is a widely-used culinary technique in food preparation in which an ingredient is topped with a browned crust, often using breadcrumbs, grated cheese, egg and/or butter. Gratin originated in French cuisine and is usually prepared in a shallow dish of some kind. Top with the onion slices, and add the remaining potatoes. Season with salt and pepper to taste. 3. In a medium-size saucepan, melt butter over medium heat. Mix in the flour and salt, and stir constantly with a whisk for one minute. Stir in milk.
What does gratinee mean? Its just another word for au gratin, and was the more popular term at the turn of the last century. Both of these words refer to any dish that is topped with cheese or a coating of bread crumbs, then browned in the oven to form a crisp golden crust. Such dishes are usually a combination of potatoes, vegetables, seafood, or meats, bound with a sauce like bechamel. 3) Layer the potato slices, eggplant, and cheese in an ovenproof gratin or casserole dish, sprinkling each layer with the herbs, salt and pepper, and dotting with bits of the butter and garlic. Be sure to finish the top layer with cheese.
In the culinary arts, the term au gratin (pronounced oh-GRAH-tan) refers to a dish that is baked with a topping of seasoned breadcrumbs and cheese. The au gratin topping should be golden brown, which can be achieved by baking or by placing the dish under a broiler. 
The etymology of gratin is from the French language in which the word gratter meaning to scrape or to grate as of the scrapings of bread or cheese, and gratine, gratiné from the transitive verb form of the word for crust or. Skin the technique predates the current name which did not appear In english until (1846, oed.s. v gratin). In addition to the well-known potato dishes such as Gratin dauphinois, cooking au gratin is a widely used cooking technique in the preparation of numerous dishes including many meat, fish, vegetable and pasta dishes, fennel, leeks, crab meat, celeriac and aubergines (eggplant).
*In English, au gratin usually means with cheese, whereas in French it's more like baked dish with crusty top.. And according a French friend of mine, le gratin dauphinois, aka pommes de terre dauphinoises, should never include cheese. 