Determine your countertop overhang. When choosing a stone surface for your countertops, you will need to determine how much of an overhang you desire. Granite-Tops' standard overhang is approximately 1 1/2. This provides a slight lip that extends beyond the front of your cabinets
Hanging Out on an Island. The standard overhang of an island countertop -- on the side designed to sit at and tuck stools underneath -- is 12 inches. If you plan to extend the counter farther, you need to add supports such as legs, or wood corbels or metal L-brackets that extend half the overhang’s distance. A typical countertop overhang extends 1 to 1 1/2 inches from the cabinet bases, not the doors. The extension helps keep spills and crumbs from finding their way into the drawers and cupboards below. It also completes the counter-cupboard-toe-kick contour that makes standing at the countertop more comfortabl
The overhang for a countertop mounted in this fashion should be 18 inches to allow adequate knee-room when you sit at the countertop in a standard dining chair. For countertops used with a counter-height stool, you need a countertop height of 36 inches. The distance between the countertop and other cabinets should be 42 inches. If the overhang on the countertop is across from a refrigerator or stove, you'll want to bump that measurement up to 48 inches to ensure adequate door clearance.
Planning a kitchen island's overhang requires looking at kitchen activities. While an overhang can be used as an eating bar, it can also serve as a food prep counter. Whatever width you allow for the overhang, try to leave 4 feet between the overhang and the closest counter to the island. In other words, clearance around the island is ideally a minimum of 4 feet on all sides. Consider the whole kitchen layout before choosing the width of an island overhang.
Brackets made to support the raised deck are available where kitchen countertops are sold. The raised section should be 42 inches to 48 inches high to accommodate the bar stools. An overhang of 12 inches should be adequate in these instances. The distance between the countertop and other cabinets should be 42 inches. If the overhang on the countertop is across from a refrigerator or stove, you'll want to bump that measurement up to 48 inches to ensure adequate door clearance.
Standard kitchen base cabinets are usually 24 inches wide, whereas the basic size for kitchen island countertops are 36 inches wide. With a minimum overhang of 1.5 inches on one side, this leaves only 10.5 inches on the other. The distance between the countertop and other cabinets should be 42 inches. If the overhang on the countertop is across from a refrigerator or stove, you'll want to bump that measurement up to 48 inches to ensure adequate door clearance.
Minimum Depth of a Seating Counter Eighteen inches is comfortable for sitting and eating from plates. February 11, 2010 Question I have a split level counter to do at an island. There will be seating on one side (42 to top of counter), cabinets on the other (36 tall counter). There will be a 40 1/2 tall half wall between the two areas.
Countertop Clearance. Keep in mind how far the edge of your countertop is from appliances or kitchen cabinets to maintain an adequate walkway. The more overhang you add to your island or peninsula, the walkway may shrink an equal distance. The distance between the countertop and other cabinets should be 42 inches. If the overhang on the countertop is across from a refrigerator or stove, you'll want to bump that measurement up to 48 inches to ensure adequate door clearance.