Jaggery is used as an ingredient in many Indian and Sri Lankan recipes. It is used very commonly in Gujarati cuisine. It is also used to make toffees, cakes and desserts. In earlier times, most Indians preferred to use jaggery instead of refined sugar. 2.Jaggery does not alter the blood sugar level and is therefore preferred over refined sugar in case of diabetes. 3.Jaggery helps in controlling the body weight by reducing water retention. 4.Jaggery is a very good cleansing agent, that pulls our dust and unwanted particles from the body.
Jaggery on the other hand is a complex carbohydrate that gives energy to the body gradually and for a longer time. 2.Jaggery does not alter the blood sugar level and is therefore preferred over refined sugar in case of diabetes. 3.Jaggery helps in controlling the body weight by reducing water retention. 4.Jaggery is a very good cleansing agent, that pulls our dust and unwanted particles from the body.
A coarse dark brown sugar made in India by evaporation of the sap of palm trees. Example sentences. 1  Add the tomato puree, purée, jaggery chilli and garam masala powders and water if. 2  Required chilled banana cream with Jaggery, jaggery which is fermented palm, sugar is fabulous.  stuff 
jaggery. n. 1. (Cookery) a coarse brown sugar made in the East Indies from the sap of the date palm. 
Purifies Blood. Jaggery is a wonderful sweet that not only tastes delicious but also purifies the blood. It acts as a cleansing agent for our blood and purifies it. You simply have to add it to your diet and have its benefits. Reduces Joint Pains. If you are suffering from joint pains, eat jaggery, it is wonderful for you. Eat jaggery with a piece of ginger every day, it will definitely help you get rid of joint pains. Jaggery is good for migraine patients also.
Nowadays Most of our Building Workers are adding palm Jaggery with their Foods. Palm Jaggery we are calling as karuppatti in Tamil is made from the extract of Palm Trees. 
Jaggery is basically used in baked goodies and desserts as a sweetener. However, when it comes to calories, it is not far behind white sugar. This Buzzle article tells you what are the substitutes for jaggery. 
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by THEDONNERHOOD. Confidence votes 17. Jaggery is an unrefined sugar. This basically means that it is raw sugar. None of the goodness has been removed. 
Good for Skin. Jaggery is great for your skin also. It makes your skin healthy and charming. If you have acne and pimples on your skin, eat jiggery every day. You will definitely see them going away and get a lovely and flawless skin. Reduces Joint Pains. If you are suffering from joint pains, eat jaggery, it is wonderful for you. Eat jaggery with a piece of ginger every day, it will definitely help you get rid of joint pains. Jaggery is good for migraine patients also.