Top 10 facts about the world. Hyperglycemia is a symptom and cause of diabetes, in which there are elevated levels of blood sugar, or glucose, in the bloodstream. In both Type I and Type II diabetes, high blood sugar results from a complication with insulin, the chemical that lets cells get energy from glucose.
Hyperglycemia is a hallmark sign of diabetes (both type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes) and prediabetes. Normal ranges for blood glucose measurements can vary slightly among different laboratories, but in general a fasting (early a.m. before breakfast) glucose level is considered normal if it is between 70-100 mg/dL.
Hyperglycemia doesn't cause symptoms until glucose values are significantly elevated — above 200 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL), or 11 millimoles per liter (mmol/L). Symptoms of hyperglycemia develop slowly over several days or weeks. The longer blood sugar levels stay high, the more serious the symptoms become.
Hyperglycemia mean higher than normal (hyper) levels of glucose (sugar) in the blood. Normal fasting blood sugar is between 70 -110 mg/dl. However, high sugar levels can be seen immediately following meals. Hyperglycemia can be a sign of undiagnosed or uncontrolled diabetes.
Hyperglycemia facts. 1  Hyperglycemia is an abnormally high blood glucose (blood sugar) level. 2  Hyperglycemia is a hallmark sign of diabetes (both type 1 diabetes and type 2 diabetes) and prediabetes. 3  Diabetes is the most common cause of hyperglycemia.
High blood sugar (hyperglycemia) affects people who have diabetes. Several factors can contribute to hyperglycemia in people with diabetes, including food and physical activity choices, illness, nondiabetes medications, or skipping or not taking enough glucose-lowering medication.
Hyperglycemia is the technical term for high blood glucose (blood sugar). High blood glucose happens when the body has too little insulin or when the body can't use insulin properly.
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Hyperglycemia is the medical term for high blood sugar, which arises due to the body’s inability to remove glucose from the blood so that cells can use it for energy. The condition usually only affects people with diabetes because these individuals have problems with insulin – the hormone required for glucose uptake.