Prognosis for Idiopathic Parkinson's disease: There is no cure for the condition and the rate of progression varies amongst patients. Various therapies can reduce the impact of symptoms and allow a better quality of life.
1. idiopathic disease-any disease arising from internal dysfunctions of unknown cause. idiopathic disorder, idiopathy. disorder, upset-a physical condition in which there is a disturbance of normal functioning; the doctor prescribed some medicine for the disorder; everyone gets stomach upsets from time to time.
Parkinson Disease. Definition: A progressive, degenerative neurologic disease characterized by a that is maximal at rest, retropulsion (i.e. a tendency to fall backwards), rigidity, stooped posture, slowness of voluntary movements, and a masklike facial expression.
Any disease that is of uncertain or unknown origin may be termed idiopathic. For example, acute idiopathic polyneuritis, diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, idiopathic scoliosis, etc. From the New Latin idiopathia (primary disease), from the Greek idiopatheia, from idio-, from idios (one's own, personal) + -patheia, -pathic (feeling, suffering).
Idiopathic Parkinson's disease: Idiopathic Parkinson's disease is Parkinson's disease for which no particular cause can be determined-it is the most prevalent form of the condition. Parkinson's disease is a chronic, progressive, degenerative brain disorder characterized by tremors, muscle rigidity and slowed movements.
Relating to or denoting any disease or condition which arises spontaneously or for which the cause is unknown: idiopathic epilepsy. More example sentences. 1  Ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease are idiopathic inflammatory disorders of unknown aetiology. 2  Basically, idiopathic pericarditis is a disease of exclusion. 3  Psychiatric symptoms frequently coexist with idiopathic Parkinson's disease and are often underdiagnosed and poorly treated.
1 Ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease are idiopathic inflammatory disorders of unknown aetiology. 2  Basically, idiopathic pericarditis is a disease of exclusion. 3  Psychiatric symptoms frequently coexist with idiopathic Parkinson's disease and are often underdiagnosed and poorly treated.