splenomegaly. enlargement of the spleen. congestive splenomegaly splenomegaly secondary to portal hypertension, with ascites, anemia, thrombocytopenia, leukopenia, and episodic hemorrhage from the intestinal tract. Called also Banti's disease. hemolytic splenomegaly enlargement of the spleen associated with hemolytic diseases of the blood. splenomegaly. congestive splenomegaly Banti's disease; splenomegaly secondary to portal hypertension. hemolytic splenomegaly that associated with any disorder causing increased erythrocyte degradation.
1 Moderate splenomegaly, if the largest dimension is between 11–20 cm. 2  Severe splenomegaly, if the largest dimension is greater than 20 cm. 3  Splenomegaly refers strictly to spleen enlargement, and is distinct from hypersplenism, which connotes overactive function by a spleen of any size. The most common causes of splenomegaly in developed countries are infectious mononucleosis, splenic infiltration with cancer cells from a hematological malignancy and portal hypertension (most commonly secondary to liver disease, and Sarcoidosis).
Splenomegaly is usually associated with increased workload (such as in hemolytic anemias), which suggests that it is a response to hyperfunction. It is therefore not surprising that splenomegaly is associated with any disease process that involves abnormal red blood cells being destroyed in the spleen. The most common causes of splenomegaly in developed countries are infectious mononucleosis, splenic infiltration with cancer cells from a hematological malignancy and portal hypertension (most commonly secondary to liver disease, and Sarcoidosis).
Splenomegaly is a term which refers to enlargement of the spleen. The normal adult splenic length upper limit is usually around 12-15 cm. The causes of splenomegaly are protean, and can be thought of under a number of headings: 1  haematological disease. 2  haemodynamic. 3  infectious. 4  storage diseases/metabolic diseases. 5  neoplastic (non-haematologic).
Enlarged spleen Enlargement of spleen for any reason, which is usually a manifestation of underlying disease; the only specific finding in splenomegaly is dragging sensation in the upper right quadrant; megalic spleens may reach 4.0+ kg–eg, in agnogenic myeloid metaplasia. splenomegaly. congestive splenomegaly Banti's disease; splenomegaly secondary to portal hypertension. hemolytic splenomegaly that associated with any disorder causing increased erythrocyte degradation.
There is a paucity of comprehensive data on normal adult abdominal organ volumes. CT volumetry studies have attempted to determine the normal adult spleen volume [5] and [13] . A mean spleen volume of 209–215 cm 3 is found in studies from Western countries [5] and [13] , and about 112 cm 3 from Japan [7] . The objective of this study was to establish the range of normal spleen size in an adult African cohort, and to compare the findings with published data to determine if there is any correlation with ethnicity.
1 Splenomegaly refers strictly to spleen enlargement, and is distinct from hypersplenism, which connotes overactive function by a spleen of any size. 2  Splenomegaly and hypersplenism should not be confused. The most common causes of splenomegaly in developed countries are infectious mononucleosis, splenic infiltration with cancer cells from a hematological malignancy and portal hypertension (most commonly secondary to liver disease, and Sarcoidosis).
Enlarged Spleen Overview. The spleen is an important organ in the immune system. It is a bean shaped structure, located in the left upper portion of the abdominal cavity, under the diaphragm, tucked in between the 9th and 11th ribs, in the mid-back. Splenomegaly is not always abnormal, and spleen size may not necessarily say much about its function. A normal-sized spleen cannot be palpated (felt) during the physical examination of the abdomen, except in slender people.