A combination of an ultrasound and maternal serum test that is used to screen fetuses between 11 weeks and 1 day and 13 weeks and 6 days to determine if a fetus is at risk for a chromosomal disorder, such as Down syndrome (trisomy 21) and trisomy 18. Alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) is a test used to screen for neural tube defects. A contraction stress test is ordered in the third trimester to evaluate the respiratory function of the placenta. Amniocentesis is a procedure used for genetic diagnosis or, in later pregnancy, for lung maturity studies.
The most common reason to have an amnio is to determine whether a baby has certain genetic disorders or a chromosomal abnormality, such as Down syndrome. Amniocentesis (or another procedure, called chorionic villus sampling (CVS)) can diagnose these problems in the womb. Amniocentesis is usually done when a woman is between 14 and 16 weeks pregnant. Women who choose to have this test are primarily those at increased risk for genetic and chromosomal problems, in part because the test is invasive and carries a small risk of miscarriage.
Amniocentesis. Amniocentesis is a procedure in which amniotic fluid is removed from the uterus for testing or treatment. Amniotic fluid is the fluid that surrounds and protects a baby during pregnancy. This fluid contains fetal cells and various chemicals produced by the baby. 
Definition. Amniocentesis is a procedure used to diagnose fetal defects in the early second trimester of pregnancy. A sample of the amniotic fluid, which surrounds a fetus in the womb, is collected through a pregnant woman's abdomen using a needle and syringe. A procedure in which a small sample of amniotic fluid is drawn out of the uterus through a needle inserted in the abdomen and is then analyzed to detect genetic abnormalities in the fetus or to determine the sex of the fetus.
Amniocentesis is a procedure used to obtain a small sample of the amniotic fluid that surrounds the fetus during pregnancy. Amniotic fluid is a clear, pale yellow fluid made by the fetus. The fluid protects the fetus from injury and helps to regulate the temperature of the fetus. An amniocentesis may be performed to check for fetal lung maturity if a baby is expected to be delivered early. Specific substances present in the amniotic fluid can be measured or tested for these conditions. The fluid is sent to a genetics lab so that the cells can grow and be analyzed.
Amniocentesis is a procedure performed during pregnancy to examine a baby's chromosomes. Most often, an amniocentesis is done between 16 and 20 weeks of pregnancy (gestation). During this procedure, amniotic fluid is removed for testing. 
1 Amniocentesis can also be used to determine the maturity of the lungs of the fetus or the cause of unknown fever in the mother. 2  For genetic testing, chromosome analysis, and the evaluation of an abnormal alpha feto-protein test, amniocentesis is usually performed between the 16th and 21st weeks of pregnancy. Amniocentesis is a procedure whereby a sample of fluid is removed from the amniotic sac for analysis. The amniotic sac is in the uterine cavity. The amniotic sac is the fluid-filled structure inside a pregnant woman's uterus within which the baby lives. Fetal cells, proteins, and fetal urine freely move within this sac.
Amniocentesis is a diagnostic test. Your obstetrician will take a small sample of amniotic fluid from your womb (uterus). This fluid contains some of your baby's cells and will be examined in a laboratory (BUPA 2012, Lowth 2013) . Amniocentesis is usually carried out from 15 weeks of pregnancy onwards (RCOG 2011) . It is not a routine test.