Changes a pharmacist can make to a prescription for schedule II-V controlled substances. 1  May add or change patient’s address upon verification. 2  May add or change dosage form, drug strength, quantity, directions for use, or issue date: 3  Only after consultation with and agreement of the prescribing practitioner.
In the preamble to that rule, the DEA stated that ‘the essential elements of a Schedule II prescription written by the practitioner such as the name of the controlled substance (CS), strength, dosage form, and quantity prescribed may not be modified orally.’.
A pharmacist cannot add or change to a CII prescription: 1  The name of the patient; 2  The name of the controlled substance (except a generic may be substituted for the controlled substance prescribed, in which case the name of the controlled substance can changed to the generic); OR.
Question: What changes may a pharmacist make to a prescription written for a controlled substance in schedule II? Answer: On November 19, 2007, the DEA published in the Federal Register (FR) the Final Rule entitled Issuance of Multiple Prescriptions for Schedule II Controlled Substances (72 FR 64921).
Changes a pharmacist cannot make to a prescription for schedules II-V controlled substances. 1  May never change the patient's name. 2  May never change the controlled substance prescribed. 3  May never change the prescriber's signature.
Answer: The pharmacist may add or change the patient's address upon verification. The pharmacist may add or change the dosage form, drug strength, drug quantity, directions for use, or issue date only after consultation with and agreement of the prescribing practitioner.
The pharmacist may add or change the patient’s address upon verification. The pharmacist may add or change the dosage form, drug strength, drug quantity, directions for use, or issue date only after consultation with and with the agreement of the prescribing practitioner. Such consultations and corresponding changes should be noted by the pharmacist on the prescription.
To be valid, a prescription for a controlled substance must be issued for a legitimate medical purpose by a practitioner acting in the usual course of professional practice. The practitioner is responsible for the proper prescribing and dispensing of controlled substances.