Recipe for Eye of Round Roast:3 to 5 lb. eye of round roastPlace roast in 9 X 13 inch baking dish, pour marinade aver roast and refrigerate for 1 to 2 hoursPreheat oven to 350 degreesHeat 2 tbsp of vegetable oil in large skillet over medium high heat. Any recipes will be appreciated. The eye of round is a cut from the round steak section of a beef hind quarter.A round steak actually has 3 different cuts in it that you can buy at the grocery store.
A beef Eye of Round is a very tough cut of meat, so it is usually cooked as a pot roast. It will end up tender when cooked as a pot roast, but will usually be so dry and stringy that everyone is pouring buckets of gravy on it. The technique avoids that. It was documented in Cooks Illustrated magazine, January 2008. This recipe turns an Eye of Round cut of beef into flavourful, moist, tender, pinkish slices of meat with a salt and pepper crust reminiscent of the sliced beef that delicatessens sell. The slices can be served as part of a hot meal, but they are also very good cold for lunch sandwiches, or in hot beef sandwiches.
Newsletter sign up. An Eye of Round Roast is a boneless beef roast. A whole one can weigh up to 8 pounds (3 1/2 kg), though butchers will often cut that in half for sale. It is a lean cut of beef, with almost no marbling; any side fat is often trimmed away. 
Three Methods: Cooking the Roast in the Oven Cooking the Roast on the Stove-Top Cooking the Roast in a Slow Cooker. Eye of round roast is a cheap, lean cut of beef with a tendency to be tough if cooked improperly. However, when cooked the right way, this cut of meat transforms into a delicious, juicy roast. Try these three methods for cooking eye of round roast. 
Flat Iron Steak. 3 to 5 lb. eye of round roastPlace roast in 9 X 13 inch baking dish, pour marinade aver roast and refrigerate for 1 to 2 hoursPreheat oven to 350 Heat 2 tbsp of vegetable oil in large skillet over medium high heat. Place roast in skillet and sear meat, browning well on all sidesPlace eye of round roast back into baking dish and bake at 350 for 1 hoursRemove from oven and let rest 5 minutes before slicing. 3 to 5 lb. eye of round roast. Preheat oven to 375 .Place roast in oven, uncovered. Roast 1 hour, shut oven off and let it set for 2 to 3 hours. eye roast-Roast hour and let it set for same amount of time.If you have one of those rotisserie ovens place in the rack or on the skewer and follow above directions. Comes out medium
Eye Of Round Roast Recipe. The eye is a very lean cut and can be dry but takes well to marinating. Marinating for 1-2 hours or overnight in the fridge will give it more flavor and less chewy. 1. An hour before cooking, remove the roast from the refrigerator to bring to room temperature. 2. Round Eye Pot Roast. The eye of round roast resembles a tenderloin but is much tougher. It has mediocre flavor and is less juicy than most roast. Most people cook the eye using the dry roasted method like most oven roast beef recipes, thinly sliced and not overcooked, about medium rare makes a good deli-style roast.
Print. The eye round is the eye muscle of the bottom round of the beef round primal cut. The eye round roast is boneless and can be a bit tough, so it is best to cook it with a moist heat process such as pot-roasting. 
Bottom Round Roast: Roasts from the bottom round. A bit tough and best suited as corned beef or pot roast. This is called beef silverside in the UK, Ireland, Australia and New Zealand. Eye Round Roast/Steak or Eye of the Round: A boneless roast that looks like tenderloin, but it is much tougher. Used as a roast or cut into steaks. Steaks cut from the roast are used in stews or processed into cube steak