After you pay the fine, points may show up on your DMV record unless you can go to traffic school. If the court allows you to attend a traffic school and receives your completion of the class before the deadline, the points should not show up on your record. If you plead guilty and pay the fine, you will get points on your driving record and your car insurance payment will go up. If you don't go to court or pay the fine, your license will be suspended and the court can charge you with a misdemeanor and issue a warrant for your arrest. If you are elligible for traffic school, you may get your penalty reduced and just have to pay a court fee and traffic school fee
Pay a Traffic Ticket in California. If you pay the ticket and attend traffic school, you may not need to go to court. In some cases, you can pay the fine online or by mail; this information should be printed on your ticket. If you received a traffic ticket for a moving violation, you may, at the court's discretion, have the option to enroll in traffic school or point reduction course to remove points from your driving record. Your court will let you know if this is an option for you
When you receive a ticket, it will have information on how to pay as well as the deadline to do so. For most tickets, everything you need to do can be completed through mail or online. If you receive a ticket for a misdemeanor, you will have to go to court. The Notice to Appear found on your ticket will include the name of the court that will decide your case, the deadline to pay the ticket or go to court, and what you must do to respond to the ticket. 
What to do if you Get a Traffic Ticket in Florida. Over 4 million traffic citations were issued in 2003 in Florida-that's 4 million tickets. The bulk of these traffic tickets are for speeding but improper lane change, careless driving, running red lights, and other moving violations were very common as well. If you complete a state approved traffic school course and submit your certificate of completion to the clerk of court in the county where you received the ticket by their specified deadline adjudication is withheld, which means you are not deemed guilty and you received no points.
When you get a traffic ticket, you can: 1  Plead guilty and pay the traffic fine. 2  To do this, send your payment and a copy of the citation or the courtesy notice to the courthouse. 3  When the court receives your payment, your case will be closed. You must go to court on the date shown on your ticket unless the court sends a notice telling you a different date for your hearing. For more serious misdemeanors, like driving under the influence (DUI) of alcohol or drugs, you could pay up to $4,160 or more.
When you get stopped for a traffic violation, you may want to fight the ticket or just pay it off to make it go away, but think twice before you do that. In most situations, if you go to traffic school, you can avoid stiff fines and increased insurance rates, and keep your record clean. It's All about the Money -- Fines. Fines for traffic violations can run from the mild to the seemingly excessive, depending on your state's laws and your driving record. Often people just want to make the fine go away, but once you sign the ticket and pay the fee, it goes on your record (for up to 3 years) so you could continue to pay for the infraction for a while. Always check to see whether there is the option to go to traffic school in lieu of, or in conjunction with, paying a fine.
Generally, you are eligible to attend a traffic school and have the citation dismissed from your record upon completion of the class if you have not attended traffic school in the state of California in the past 18 months. Your courtesy notice will indicate whether or not you are eligible for the traffic school program. If you plead guilty and pay the fine, you will get points on your driving record and your car insurance payment will go up. If you don't go to court or pay the fine, your license will be suspended and the court can charge you with a misdemeanor and issue a warrant for your arrest. If you are elligible for traffic school, you may get your penalty reduced and just have to pay a court fee and traffic school fee
A: After you pay your fine, points may show up on your DMV record unless you can go to traffic school. If the court lets you go to traffic school and you turn in your proof of completion of traffic school to the court before the deadline, the points should not show up on your record. A: You can go to traffic court without a lawyer. If you want a lawyer for a traffic infraction (like speeding or running a red light), you can hire one. But the court will not give you one. For a misdemeanor, like driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, it is a good idea to have a lawyer.