Objectives Define mutations and polymorphisms. Distinguish the three types of DNA mutations: genome, chromosomal, and gene. Diagram a human chromosome and label the centromere, q arm, p arm, and telomere. Illustrate the different types of structural mutations that occur in chromosomes. Show how karyotypes reveal chromosomal abnormalities. 
But the mutations we hear about most often are the ones that cause disease. Some well-known inherited genetic disorders include cystic fibrosis, sickle cell anemia, Tay-Sachs disease, phenylketonuria and color-blindness, among many others. All of these disorders are caused by the mutation of a single gene. Most inherited genetic diseases are recessive, which means that a person must inherit two copies of the mutated gene to inherit a disorder
With this cause of mutation, a decrease in the number of genes occurs due to the deletion of a large section of a chromosome. Deletion can result in a variety of genetic disorders, such as Prader-Willi syndrome, Cri d Chat syndrome, and Angelman's syndrome. Each of these mutations can cause a variety of different diseases and conditions. Read on to learn what these mutations are and what disorders they can cause. slide 1 of 8. The causes of chromosomes mutation occur when there is any change in the arrangement or structure of the chromosomes. These mutations occur most often during meiosis during the stage when crossing over occurs. There are several different mutation types that result in chromosomal structure change. This change in structure leads to serious changes in an organisms' phenotype and genotype. If essential parts of the DNA are affected by chromosomal mutations, a foetus can be aborted prior to birth without the mother's control
Mutations cause changes in the genetic code that lead to genetic variation and the potential to develop disease. Gene mutations can be generally categorized into two types: point mutations and base-pair insertions or deletions. Point mutations are the most common type of gene mutation. Also called a base-pair substitution, this type of mutation changes a single nucleotide base pair. 1 Silent Mutation: Although a change in the DNA sequence occurs, this type of mutation does not change the protein that is to be produced. 2  This is because multiple genetic codons can encode for the same amino acid. 3  Amino acids are coded for by three nucleotide sets called codons.
The four types of chromosomal mutation are deletion, duplication, inversion and trasnlocation. Deletion is the loss of all or part of a chromosome. Duplication is where a segm … ent of a chromosome is copied. Inversion is where a section of a chromosome is reversed. Insertion, Deletion and Frameshift mutation. These are the 3 basic types of mutation, however, there are other types of mutations: substitution, translocation, duplication, in … version, transversion and transition.
Frameshift mutation (illustration). This type of mutation occurs when the addition or loss of DNA bases changes a gene’s reading frame. A reading frame consists of groups of 3 bases that each code for one amino acid. A frameshift mutation shifts the grouping of these bases and changes the code for amino acids. 
The following is a list of genetic disorders and if known, type of mutation and the chromosome involved. The list of human genes includes genes not listed here, which also affect predisposition toward certain diseases. 
There are four basic types of point mutations that can occur: Substitution: This kind of mutation switches with another base to create an irregular sequence. ex:) NORMAL-ABCDEFG. SUBSTITUTION-BACDEFG. Insertion: This kind of mutation involves the insertion of an extra base to the sequence. Insertion, Deletion and Frameshift mutation. These are the 3 basic types of mutation, however, there are other types of mutations: substitution, translocation, duplication, in … version, transversion and transition.