Treatments that reduce androgen production by the testicles are the most commonly used hormone therapies for prostate cancer. These include: 1  Orchiectomy, a surgical procedure to remove one or both testicles. 2  Removal of the testicles can reduce the level of testosterone in the blood by 90 to 95 percent (4). Finally, hormone therapy used alone is also the standard treatment for men who are found to have metastatic disease (i.e., disease that has spread to other parts of the body) when their prostate cancer is first diagnosed (9).
Weight gain and muscle loss. Weight gain and muscle loss are common side effects of hormonal therapy for prostate cancer. An increase in fat tissue causes weight gain, and loss of muscle tissue causes a decrease in strength. Diet and exercise help to reduce weight gain and muscle loss. 
Hair loss is one of the most common side effects or unwanted changes in your body that can happen when you have chemotherapy to control your prostate cancer. It can be very upsetting. The important thing to remember is that your hair will grow back after your treatment ends. 
Exercise may help reduce some of the side effects of hormone therapy, including bone loss, muscle loss, weight gain, fatigue, and insulin resistance (14, 24). Several clinical trials are examining whether exercise is an effective strategy to reverse or prevent side effects of hormone therapy for prostate cancer. Finally, hormone therapy used alone is also the standard treatment for men who are found to have metastatic disease (i.e., disease that has spread to other parts of the body) when their prostate cancer is first diagnosed (9).
Hormone Therapy. One treatment for prostate cancer is androgen-deprivation therapy, also called hormone therapy. Androgens, the family of male sex hormones that includes testosterone, fuel the growth of prostate cancer. Stopping the body from making these hormones can, for a time, stop the growth of prostate cancer. 
1 Hormone therapy given before other treatments is called neoadjuvant hormone therapy. 2  Men with early-stage prostate cancer that has an intermediate or high risk of recurrence often receive hormone therapy before or during radiation therapy, in addition to receiving hormone therapy after radiation therapy. Finally, hormone therapy used alone is also the standard treatment for men who are found to have metastatic disease (i.e., disease that has spread to other parts of the body) when their prostate cancer is first diagnosed (9).
Hormone therapy will be a life-long treatment for many men with advanced prostate cancer. It can control the cancer and manage symptoms such as bone pain. Prostate cancer that has come back. If your cancer has come back after treatment, hormone therapy will be one of the treatments available for you. Hormone therapy alone won’t cure your prostate cancer but it can keep it under control, sometimes for several years, before you need further treatment. It is also used with other treatments, such as radiotherapy, to make them more effective.
The hormonal process of testosterone converting to DHT, which then harms hair follicles, happens in both men and women. Under normal conditions, women have a minute fraction of the level of testosterone that men have, but even a lower level can cause DHT-triggered hair loss in women. 
Hormone (androgen deprivation) therapy for prostate cancer. Hormone therapy is also called androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) or androgen suppression therapy. The goal is to reduce levels of male hormones, called androgens, in the body, or to stop them from affecting prostate cancer cells. The main androgens are testosterone and dihydrotestosterone (DHT). Most of the body’s androgens come from the testicles, but the adrenal glands also make a small amount.
Hormone therapy for prostate cancer —also called androgen suppression therapy or androgen deprivation therapy —can block the production and use of androgens (3). Currently available treatments can: 1  Reduce androgen production by the testicles. 2  Block the action of androgens in the body. Finally, hormone therapy used alone is also the standard treatment for men who are found to have metastatic disease (i.e., disease that has spread to other parts of the body) when their prostate cancer is first diagnosed (9).