We chose the Beefmaster breed because of their weight gain abilities, their hardiness, and their extremely thorough grazing habits. All our show heifers, replacement heifers and bulls are hand-raised. The goal with our herd is to provide top quality cattle that are top breeders and weight gainers.
Beefmaster cattle have been developed by the Lasater Ranch then headquartered in Texas. The breeding program leading to their establishment was started by Ed C. Lasater in 1908, when he purchased Brahman bulls to use on his commercial herd of Hereford and Shorthorn cattle.
Origin. Beefmaster cattle were developed by the Lasater Ranch in Texas but now headquartered in Colorado. The breeding program leading to their establishment was started by Ed C. Lasater in 1908, when he purchased Bos Indicus bulls to use on his commercial herd of Hereford and Shorthorn cattle.
For the breed of tomatoes, see Beefsteak tomato. Beefmaster is a breed of beef cattle that was developed in the early 1930s by Tom Lasater (the breed founder), after his father Ed c. Lasater created the breed, from a crossing of Hereford cows and Shorthorn cows with Brahman bulls.
The breeding program leading to their establishment was started by Ed C. Lasater in 1908, when he purchased Brahman bulls to use on his commercial herd of Hereford and Shorthorn cattle (Beefmaster cattle are 50% Brahman, 25% Hereford, and 25% Milking Shorthorn).
Beefmaster cattle are the first American composite breed (combination of three or more breeds). They were developed by Tom Lasater in south Texas, beginning in 1931. The Beefmaster breed was recognized in by the USDA in 1954, and today Beefmaster Breeders United is the fifth-largest breed registry in the United States.
1 Other characteristics: This breed is the first composite breed created in America. 2  Beefmasters were first established on the Lasater Ranch, then in Texas, in 1908 when Brahman bulls were purchased to use on Ed C. Lasater's Hereford and Shorthorn cows.
Beefmaster. Beginning in the early 1930s, Tom Lasater, the breed's founder, developed Beefmasters by crossing Hereford, Shorthorn and Brahman cattle. The exact mixture of the foundation cattle is not known, but is thought to be about 25% Hereford, 25% Shorthorn and 50% Brahman.