The offspring will have type AB blood. However, both A&B are dominant over type O. Therefore, a person with type A blood could have the genotype of either homozygous dominant (AA-both alleles are the same and are dominant) or heterozygous (mixed alleles, one dominant, one recessive or AO). The same is true of a person with type B blood. You can have No proteins = blood type O One type of proteins = blood type A A different type of proteins = blood type B Both types of proteins = blood type AB To get blood type AB, a person needs to get an A protein from one parent and a B protein from the other.
Blood Type Genetic Basis: In genetics, blood type gene has two alleles, each allele has genotype A, B or O. The A and B are dominant, and O is recessive. So allele A combined with allele O is type A. Similarly, BO is type B, AA is type A, BB is type B, OO is type O, and AB is type AB. If both parents have type A blood, then the alleles could be AA or AO, thus the allele A frequency is 75%, allele O frequency is 25% for both parents.
Blood groups are inherited from both parents. The ABO blood type is controlled by a single gene (the ABO gene) with three types of alleles inferred from classical genetics: i, IA, and IB. The gene encodes a glycosyltransferase —that is, an enzyme that modifies the carbohydrate content of the red blood cell antigens. 
It’s inherited. Like eye color, blood type is passed genetically from your parents. Whether your blood group is type A, B, AB or O is based on the blood types of your mother and father. This chart shows the potential blood types you may inherit. In general, Rh negative blood is given to Rh-negative patients, and Rh positive blood or Rh negative blood may be given to Rh positive patients. 1  The universal red cell donor has Type O negative blood type. 2  The universal plasma donor has Type AB blood type
Your ABO blood type is based on the presence or absence of the A and B antigens on your red blood cells. The A blood type has only the A antigen and the B blood type has only the B antigen. The AB blood type has both A and B antigens, and the O blood type has neither A nor B antigen. By the time you are six months old, you naturally develop antibodies against the antigens your red blood cells lack. The A and B genes are dominant and the O gene is recessive. For example, if an O gene is paired with an A gene, the blood type will be A. For instance, a parent with O blood with 2 O genes and a parent with A blood with 2 A genes will have an A blood type child with one A gene and one O gene.
Each biological parent donates one of their two ABO alleles to their child. A mother who is blood type O can only pass an O allele to her son or daughter. A father who is blood type AB could pass either an A or a B allele to his son or daughter. This couple could have children of either blood type A (O from mother and A from father) or blood type B (O from mother and B from father). Inherited Blood type of child O from the mother A from the father A O from the mother B from the father B. 
A blood type (also called a blood group) is a classification of blood based on the presence or absence of inherited antigenic substances on the surface of red blood cells (RBCs). These antigens may be proteins, carbohydrates, glycoproteins, or glycolipids, depending on the blood group system. 
1 Everyone has one of four blood types – A, B, AB, or O – which is inherited from your parents. 2  Your blood type is determined by the presence or absence of two antigens – A and B – on the surface of red blood cells. 
A blood type = AA or AO B blood type = BB or BO O blood type = OO AB blood type = AB Thus, the AB blood type can only be inherited from parents with A blood type and B blood type. The A and B allele are dominant, while the O allele is recessive. Hence, the AB bloodtype is codominant. You can have No proteins = blood type O One type of proteins = blood type A A different type of proteins = blood type B Both types of proteins = blood type AB To get blood type AB, a person needs to get an A protein from one parent and a B protein from the other.