Bond Genealogy & History. Bond is a descriptive European name, likely derived from Old Norse bonde or Old English buan, meaning dwell, a status name for a peasant farmer. In Bond family history, the family seat (feudal home) was in Somerset, where the family was granted lands by Duke William of Normandy. 
Bond /bond/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is of Middle English and Old English origin, and the meaning of Bond is peasant farmer . From the Middle English word bonde (of German origin) or Old English bunda. Transferred use of the surname. Made famous through the spy and his line Bond. James Bond. Bond is an uncommonly occurring given name for men but a very prominent last name for all people (#603 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Bond for boys. Bond has yet to be listed in the list thus far.
The meaning of Bond is “To Bind; peasant farmer”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Bond and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Bond is fascinating, learn more about it.
Bond Name Meaning. English: status name for a peasant farmer or husbandman, Middle English bonde (Old English bonda, bunda, reinforced by Old Norse bondi). bóndi The Old Norse word was also in use as a personal name, and this has given rise to other English and Scandinavian surnames alongside those originating as status names. The status of the peasant farmer fluctuated considerably during the Middle Ages; moreover, the underlying Germanic word is of disputed origin and meaning.
This interesting surname is of Anglo-Saxon origin, and was at first a status name for a peasant farmer or husbandman. The derivation is from the Olde English pre 7th Century bonda, bunda, reinforced by the Old Norse bonde, bondi, in Middle English bonde. 
Later examples of the surname recording include the marriage of Elianor Bond and Richard Laplove on November 12th 1576 at the church of St. Gregorys by St. Pauls in the city of London, and that of John Bonder, who married Elizabeth Webb at Knightsbridge, Westminster, on June 4th 1650. It was at first a status surname for a peasant farmer or husbandman, the derivation being from either the Old Norse-Viking word bonde, or the Olde English and Anglo-Saxon word buan, both meaning to dwell, but an alternative is from bindan, meaning to bind.
Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Bond and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Bond and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. The history and meaning of the name Bond is fascinating, learn more about it.
Meaning of Bond. English name. In English, the name Bond means-to bind.The name Bond originated as an English name. The name Bond is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-to bind. Origin-Engla