The sides of the stairs, or stringers, are cut from 2x12 boards. Using a framing square, mark out the portions to be cut away from the stringer. Starting at the top corner of the board, place the square so that one leg is 7.46 (the rise) and the other is at 10” (the tread) (Image 1). Measure the Stringers. The sides of the stairs, or stringers, are cut from 2-by-12 boards. Using a framing square, mark out the portions to be cut away from the stringer. Starting at the top corner of the board, place the square so that one leg is 7.46 (the rise) and the other is at 10” (the tread) .
I am building a set of stairs that is going to a platform that is only about 4 ft high. I am about to trace them out on the wood and assumed that I should use 2x10 wood but I'm second guessing myself and thinking maybe I should use 2x12 wood for the stringers. If you have never cut your own stringers, I would suggest getting precut stair stringers from your local lumber yard or home center. It is actually pretty involved cutting your own, especially if you have a long staircase.
7. Determine how many stringers you will need. To prevent your steps from sagging or bowing as you step on them, a wide staircase will need plenty of stringers underneath to keep it evenly supported. For safety reasons, the stringers should be spaced between 16 inches (40.6 cm) and 4 feet (121.9 cm) apart. 1 So, if your riser is 7 inches (17.8 cm) tall, your tread should be anywhere from 9 to 11 inches (23 to 28 cm) long. 2  This makes the treads long enough to comfortably fit the average foot on and high enough to make stepping easy.
You can use 2x12's for stringers. Mark out the stringer as you would for a cut stringer. Next, you must mark allowance lines for your tread thickness plus 3/4 and riser thickness plus 3/4 by marking lines, parallel to the cut stringer lines. 
Divide the total rise by the typical rise per step. This will give you the total number of steps on your stairs. The typical rise per step is about 7 inches (17.8 cm), but you'll probably use a different height in your final construction. 1 So, if your riser is 7 inches (17.8 cm) tall, your tread should be anywhere from 9 to 11 inches (23 to 28 cm) long. 2  This makes the treads long enough to comfortably fit the average foot on and high enough to make stepping easy.
Stair stringers create the foundation for a set of steps or stairs whether built indoors or outdoors. Stair stringers set diagonally and attach the top high surface to the ground or floor. You must use stringers in pairs, though additional stringers create sturdier staircases. Divide the height of the staircase in inches by the intended rise of each step, also in inches, to assist in determining the stair stringer length. The riser height is up to you, though most building codes will not allow a height larger than 7 3/4 inches.
When building deck stairs you will need to determine the total height of the deck at the stairs. This is the change in elevation from the top of the deck to where you expect the stairs to land. Place a level straight out from the deck and measure to the ground or landing using a tape measurer. You will also need to establish the tread depth and riser height for each step. The minimum tread depth is 10 and the maximum riser height is 8. In most cases this will be a 7-1/2 rise and 10-1/2 run. This will allow you to use two deck boards for each tread with a 1/2 reveal. Once you have determined the total stair height, tread depth, and riser height you can plug the numbers into the decks.com stair stringer calculator to find the stringer length, stair projection, and the angle of the stairs
How to Use the EZ Stair Calculator. Note: For commercial stairs, I.B.C. code requires a maximum RISE of 7 and minimum RUN of 11. 
a = length of the base along the foundation (the run of the stairs) b = the height of the stairs in this case 12 feet c = the length of the 2 x 12 this is very simple math you learned in school a squared + b squared = c squared in other words measure the base multiply it by itsel,f add it to 144 (12 squared). Report Abuse. Use 3 -18 footers. 12 feet easily divides by 8=18 risers, including the landing. There will be 17 treads. The treads should be 11 inches, so the bottom end of the stairs will be 187 away from a plumb line drawn down from