Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is a procedure in which a brief application of electric stimulus is used to produce a generalized seizure. Because of the concern about permanent memory loss and confusion related to ECT treatment, some researchers recommend that the treatment only be used as a last resort. It is also unclear whether or not ECT is effective.
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is a procedure used to treat severe depression. It may be used in people who have symptoms such as delusions, hallucinations, or suicidal thoughts or when other treatments such as psychotherapy and antidepressant medicines have not worked. How Well It Works. Studies have shown that ECT is an effective short-term treatment for severe depression. ECT may be used after other treatments have not worked. It is important to have follow-up treatment with medicine or maintenance ECT to reduce the risk of relapse.
The current causes a brief seizure in the brain. ECT is one of the fastest ways to relieve symptoms in severely depressed or suicidal patients. It's also very effective for patients who suffer from mania or other mental illnesses. ECT is generally used when severe depression is unresponsive to other forms of therapy. Or it might be used when patients pose a severe threat to themselves or others and it is too dangerous to wait until medications take effect. ECT is among the safest and most effective treatments available for depression. With ECT, electrodes are placed on the patient's scalp and a finely controlled electric current is applied while the patient is under general anesthesia.
ECT is a form of medical treatment for severe depression, bipolar disorder, and psychotic illnesses such as schizophrenia. It may be recommended when symptoms are severe or other forms of treatment are ineffective. 
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is a procedure, done under general anesthesia, in which small electric currents are passed through the brain, intentionally triggering a brief seizure. ECT seems to cause changes in brain chemistry that can quickly reverse symptoms of certain mental illnesses. It often works when other treatments are unsuccessful. Much of the stigma attached to ECT is based on early treatments in which high doses of electricity were administered without anesthesia, leading to memory loss, fractured bones and other serious side effects. ECT is much safer today.
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) can provide rapid, significant improvements in severe symptoms of several mental health conditions. ECT is used to treat: 1  Severe depression, particularly when accompanied by detachment from reality (psychosis), a desire to commit suicide or refusal to eat.
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), formerly known as electroshock therapy and often referred to as shock treatment, is a psychiatric treatment in which seizures are electrically induced in patients to provide relief from psychiatric illnesses. It is the only currently used form of shock therapy in psychiatry. A round of ECT is effective for about 50% of people with treatment-resistant major depressive disorder, whether it is unipolar or bipolar. Follow-up treatment is still poorly studied, but about half of people who respond relapse within twelve months.
It is also a misconception that ECT is used as a quick fix in place of long-term therapy or hospitalization. Nor is it correct to believe that the patient is painfully shocked out of the depression. Unfavorable news reports and media coverage have contributed to the controversy surrounding this treatment. ECT is among the safest and most effective treatments available for depression. With ECT, electrodes are placed on the patient's scalp and a finely controlled electric current is applied while the patient is under general anesthesia.
electroconvulsive therapy. a treatment for mental disorders in which an electric current is used to produce convulsions. It is used primarily to treat depression or the depressive phase of bipolar disorder; it has also been used to treat some forms of schizophrenia and acute mania. (ECT) [ e-lek″tro-kon-vul´siv ]