A post code is a number that refers to the area an address finds itself in it makes mail sorting easier as wel as puting an end to mail being misdirect to similarly pelt … addresses in different places.     In the UK a post code is the same as a USA Zip Code.   If you are posting a letter to the UK the post code will help it get to the correct place (each street or area will have a post code allocated). a zip code and a postal code are one and the same thing. zip codes are used in the United States. the rest of teh world uses the term Postal Code.
The postal code for Qatar is QATAR   There is no such thing as a postal code for an entire country. You  simply write the name of the country in all capital letters, ei … ther  in English or in French, on a line by itself after the rest of the  address. 1 person found this useful. In the US (and a few other countries due to the influence of the US), these codes are called zip codes. (ZIP was ori … ginally an acronym for Zone Improvement Program.) In most countries they're called postal codes.
A postal code (also known locally in various English-speaking countries throughout the world as a postcode, post code, Eircode, PIN Code or ZIP Code) is a series of letters and/or digits, sometimes including spaces or punctuation, included in a postal address for the purpose of sorting mail. There are a number of synonyms for postal code; some are country-specific. 1  Postal code: The general term is used in Canada. 2  Postcode: This solid compound is popular in many English-speaking countries and is also the standard term in The Netherlands.
Use Global Postal Code When you write a letter, you can add the Global Postal Code as part of the mailing address such as: 4168 Finch Ave. E. Toronto, ON M1W 2N8 Canada NAC: 8CRB Q90H That is, at the bottom of the current mailing address, add an extra line starting with NAC:  followed by the Global Postal Code. If a sorting machine knows the code, it can use the code to sort your mail automatically for either local or international delivery. Therefore, people can start using the code on mail now without the need to wait until all mail sorting equipment is able to sort mail based on
No postal codes or zip codes in Qatar as we get mail in the Post office boxes here and the country is smaller so its not divided in postal locations. Hi, Does anyone know what is the Postal Code/Zip Code of Doha... I am searching this in various sites but cud not get it...Please reply if anyone knows.... 1  Share: Share.
The Qatar country code is 974. Get the mobile country codes for Qatar. Qatar Information: Qatar Emergency Numbers. Local Telephone Prefix: More ways to call Qatar: Qatar on Wikipedia The currency of Qatar is the Qatari Riyal. The nationality of Qatar is Qataris
UPDATE: According to QPost, the official postal services company, Qatar does not use zip codes or post codes. If it is required for an online forms, use 00000 or other random numbers. Hi, Does anyone know what is the Postal Code/Zip Code of Doha... I am searching this in various sites but cud not get it...Please reply if anyone knows.... 1  Share: Share.
I disclaim responsibility for all content on Answers.com. The postal code for Qatar is QATAR. There is no such thing as a postal code for an entire country. You simply write the name of the country in all capital letters, either in English or in French, on a line by itself after the rest of the address. a zip code and a postal code are one and the same thing. zip codes are used in the United States. the rest of teh world uses the term Postal Code.
Get Global Postal Code Use the mouse to pan/zoom the map to the area and click a location to get its NAC on the top of the map. You can also input a street address and click Get Map which will show the NAC on the map. Note, country name if other than US is required in the address. If a sorting machine knows the code, it can use the code to sort your mail automatically for either local or international delivery. Therefore, people can start using the code on mail now without the need to wait until all mail sorting equipment is able to sort mail based on the Global Postal Code.
This page details Qatar phone code. The Qatar country code 974 will allow you to call Qatar from another country. Qatar telephone code 974 is dialed after the IDD. Qatar international dialing 974 is followed by an area code. The Qatar area code table below shows the various city codes for Qatar. Qatar country codes are followed by these area codes. With the complete Qatar dialing code, you can make your international call.