4. The Abyss is located down on earth, and again, the Abyss seems to be located downwards, beneath the surface of the earth, inside the earth, as “the beast” is said to “ascend” out of the Abyss. And so the Abyss is a place where a fallen angel can be imprisoned in chains, down inside the earth. There are a few other verses in the New Testament which seem to reference to a place matching this functional description. Here both the Abyss and “people of old time” are mentioned, and the Abyss is again described to be in the low parts of the earth. There is some hint here that “places desolate of old” might now be located inside the earth in ruin.
The angel king of the Abyss is called the Destroyer. Rev. 9:1 The fifth angel sounded his trumpet, and I saw a star that had fallen from the sky to the earth. The star [symbolic here for angel] was given the key to the shaft of the Abyss. 2When he opened the Abyss, smoke rose from it like the smoke from a gigantic furnace.
The trench, located off New Zealand, is the fifth deepest trench in the world. Its maximum depth is 32,963 feet or 6.24 miles (10,047 meters). It's also one of the coldest trenches due to the inflow of deep waters from Antarctica. 
The star was given the key to the shaft of the Abyss. New Living Translation. Then the fifth angel blew his trumpet, and I saw a star that had fallen to earth from the sky, and he was given the key to the shaft of the bottomless pit. And the fifth sounded, and I saw a star that fell from the sky to The Earth, and the key of the pit of The Abyss was given to it. GOD'S WORD® Translation. When the fifth angel blew his trumpet, I saw a star that had fallen to earth from the sky.
“The beast that you saw was and is not, and is about to come up out of the abyss and to go to destruction. And those who dwell on the earth will wonder, whose name has not been written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, when they see the beast, that he was and is not and will come. The beast that you saw was, and is not, and is about to come up out of the abyss and go to destruction. And those who dwell on the earth, whose name has not been written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, will wonder when they see the beast, that he was and is not and will come. King James Bible.
The beast that you saw was, and is not; and is about to come up out of the abyss and to go into destruction. Those who dwell on the earth and whose names have not been written in the book of life from the foundation of the world will marvel when they see that the beast was, and is not, and shall be present. The beast that you saw was, and is not, and is about to come up out of the abyss and go to destruction. And those who dwell on the earth, whose name has not been written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, will wonder when they see the beast, that he was and is not and will come. King James Bible.
The beast that you saw was, and is not, and is about to come up out of the abyss and go into destruction; and those dwelling on the earth whose names are not written in the book of life from the foundation of the world will wonder, seeing the beast which was, and is not, and yet will be. The beast that you saw was, and is not, and is about to come up out of the abyss and go to destruction. And those who dwell on the earth, whose name has not been written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, will wonder when they see the beast, that he was and is not and will come. King James Bible.
As described below, the abyss is a hot place (geologists know that the internal temperatures of the earth are so high that rock is molten), and although very deep within the earth, not necessarily dark because molten rock glows and gives light, just like a filament in a light bulb. Since the Bible refers to the abyss as a place where demons are imprisoned, it would not then be entirely a physical place within the earth anyway, since demons are spirits who can pass through physical barriers. The abyss is logically a spiritual and physical place within the earth. Depending on the version of the Bible, the original Greek word is variously translated as abyss, the deep, or the bottomless pit.
Chapter 24 The Abyss and the Beast from the Abyss INTRODUCTION Before we examine texts on the subject of the Abyss, some linguistics may be helpful. The term Abyss comes from the Greek words Abussos or Abusson and has been translated as Abyss in the NIV or in the KJV as deep or bottomless as in bottomless pit. Now that we have a good idea what the Abyss is, let's look what or who comes out of the Abyss and what it/he does. There is an angel that comes out of the Abyss to direct the locusts with scorpion tails in the fifth trumpet. He is called the. .