Play (help·info). In music, a sequence is the restatement of a motif or longer melodic (or harmonic) passage at a higher or lower pitch in the same voice. It is one of the most common and simple methods of elaborating a melody in eighteenth and nineteenth century classical music (Classical period and Romantic music). A tonal sequence is a sequence where the subsequent segments are diatonic transpositions of the first segments. A modified sequence is a sequence where the subsequent segments are decorated or embellished so as to not destroy the character of the original segment.
Learning sequence activities are the “part” part of the Whole/Part/Whole curriculum. Teachers should spend from five to ten minutes per class period in tonal and rhythm pattern instruction. For a music curriculum to be realistic and complete, the classroom activities and the performance activities must be coordinated with the learning sequence activities (see coordinating learning sequence activities and classroom activities).
sequence. n. 1. an arrangement of two or more things in a successive order. 2. the successive order of two or more things: chronological sequence. 3. a sequentially ordered set of related things or ideas. 4. an action or event that follows another or others. 5. sequence. 1  arithmetic progression-A sequence in which each term is obtained by the addition of a constant number to the preceding term, as 1, 4, 7, 10, 13.
For example, tonal pattern instruction begins at the lowest level of skill learning sequence (aural/oral) using the most basic level of tonal content (tonic and dominant patterns in major tonality). For a music curriculum to be realistic and complete, the classroom activities and the performance activities must be coordinated with the learning sequence activities (see coordinating learning sequence activities and classroom activities).
Music scales – Definition. Music scale is an organized sequence of notes. For example: C, D, E, F, G, A, B, C… repeating this cycle. This scale started with the C note and goes following a defined sequence of intervals until the return to the C note again. This scale is called Major Scale. We could use this same sequence (major scale) starting with another note besides C, for example, G. The scale would be G, A, B, C, D, E, F#, G… You can see how the same logic was followed (tone, tone, semitone, tone, tone, tone, semitone).
There are four major entities that create music: melody, harmony, rhythm and meter. While most people tend to remember a melody, music theorists spend a majority of time discussing the structure of harmony. In this lesson we will relate melody to form, pitch, harmony and rhythm/meter. In music, there are small and large forms. Forms can begin at the beginning of a composition, and they usually end at the conclusion of a cadence. Small forms combine to make up larger forms. The smallest melodic unit is called a motive.
Musical form is the internal structure or arrangement of music. In music, there are small and large forms. Forms can begin at the beginning of a composition, and they usually end at the conclusion of a cadence. Small forms combine to make up larger forms. The smallest melodic unit is called a motive.
There are three music learning sequences included in Music Learning Theory. They are skill learning sequence, tonal content learning sequence, and rhythm content learning sequence. At any given time during learning sequence activities, a level of skill learning sequence is being combined with a level of either tonal content learning sequence or rhythm content learning sequence. For a music curriculum to be realistic and complete, the classroom activities and the performance activities must be coordinated with the learning sequence activities (see coordinating learning sequence activities and classroom activities).