Traditionally, oyster sauce is made by slowly simmering oysters in water until the juices caramelize into a thick, brown, intensely flavorful sauce. Today, many shortcuts have been made to create a similar flavor more quickly and for less money.
By Shelby D Burns, October 15, 2013. Oyster sauce is used for a variety of recipes, including as an earthy dressing for noodles, vegetables and stir fries, or as a base for other sauces and marinades. Oyster sauce is the predominant flavor in the popular Chinese dish, beef and broccoli.
Oyster sauce is a thick, brown sauce with a sweet, salty, and earthy flavor. Oyster sauce is a popular ingredient in Vietnamese, Thai, and Cantonese cuisine. This thick, flavorful sauce is full of umami, which gives any recipe it's added to extra oomph.
Definition: A rich sauce made from boiled oysters and seasonings, oyster sauce does not have a fishy taste at all (boiling the oysters takes care of that). This rich sauce with a savory flavor is used in meat and vegetable dishes, and is an important ingredient in Cantonese cooking.
Oyster sauce describes a number of sauces made by cooking oysters. The most common in modern use is a viscous dark brown condiment made from sugar, salt and water thickened with cornstarch, flavoured with a little oyster essence or extract.
A vegetarian version of oyster sauce is available and it is made using mushrooms to provide the deep, earthy flavor. Mushrooms, especially the oyster mushroom, have a high level of umami flavor, similar to that of real oysters.
A thick, concentrated dark brown sauce made from oysters, brine and soy sauce. Oyster sauce is used in marinades, stir fries and dipping sauces in Asian cuisine.
Cornstarch, which is sometimes used to thicken oyster sauce. Soy sauce is used to make modern versions of oyster sauce. Broccoli beef is often made with oyster sauce. Oyster mushrooms can be used to make a vegetarian oyster sauce. Chicken and cashew stir-fry
Definition: A rich sauce made from boiled oysters and seasonings, oyster sauce does not have a fishy taste at all (boiling the oysters takes care of that). This rich sauce with a savory flavor is used in meat and vegetable dishes, and is an important ingredient in Cantonese cooking.