Today, a relatively small group of wealthy reinsurance companies across the globe do something similar for insurance companies and groups such as the S.C. Wind and Hail Association. In South Carolina, of the roughly $97 million in premiums that were collected in 2011, about $85 million went toward reinsurance.
Posts:2. How does wind pool work and how do I get coverage for wind damage. I live near Mobile Bay, not in a flood zone. Just concerned about wind damage in the event of a hurricane.
08/11/2008 9:35 PM. How does wind pool work and how do I get coverage for wind damage. I live near Mobile Bay, not in a flood zone. Just concerned about wind damage in the event of a hurricane. Need a better understanding of what wind pool is and how it works for residential home owners.
It is also intended to encourage more standard insurers to write insurance coverage in the Wind Pool territory. 4. What is the new area? Answer: Maps depicting the revised area may be viewed on the websites of the South Carolina Department of Insurance and the South Carolina Wind and Hail Underwriting Association.
The Citizens Wind Pool refers to the coastal areas across the State of Florida where homeowners are eligible to get a policy from Citizens Property Insurance Corporation (the state run insurance company) that specifically covers wind damage.
If you are in the territory covered by the wind pool and meet the eligibility requirements for coverage, you may obtain coverage through the wind pool. Proper maintenance of the property one is seeking to insure is one of the criteria required for coverage. 9.
Answer: If you are in the territory covered by the Wind Pool and meet the eligibility requirements for coverage, you may obtain coverage through the Wind Pool. One of the criteria for coverage through the Wind Pool is proper maintenance of the property you are seeking to insure. 9.
Answer: You do not have to be in the Wind Pool if you can secure the insurance coverage you desire elsewhere. You always have the option of securing coverage from a standard insurance company such as State Farm, SC Farm Bureau, Travelers, Nationwide, Allstate, etc., or the surplus lines market.