Based on the available information, the CIR Expert Panel concluded that Sorbitan Stearate, Sorbitan Laurate, Sorbitan Sesquioleate, Sorbitan Oleate, Sorbitan Tristearate, Sorbitan Palmitate, and Sorbitan Trioleate were safe as cosmetic ingredients. CIR Review: The CIR Expert Panel noted that as a class, the Sorbitan esters, including Sorbitan Stearate, are generally mild skin irritants but nonsensitizers. Sorbitan Stearate is not a photosensitizer. Sorbitan Stearate and Sorbitan Laurate were negative in carcinongenicity studies.
Description: Low HLB, versatile surfactant. It is oil-soluble, making it a very effective coupling agent and co-emulsifier for mineral oil. In cosmetics it can be used as a w/o emulsifier in creams, gels and hair care products. It offers a soft skin feel.
Abstract. The Sorbitan esters, including Sorbitan Stearate, Sorbitan Laurate, Sorbitan Sesquioleate, Sorbitan Oleate, Sorbitan Tristearate, Sorbitan Palmitate, and Sorbitan Trioleate, are used in cosmetic products as emulsifiers and stabilizers at concentrations normally under 5 percent. 
Sorbitan esters (also known as Spans) are nonionic surfactants that are used as emulsifying agents in the preparation of emulsions, creams, and ointments for pharmaceutical and cosmetic use. The mixture can vary, but usually consists of 1,4-anhydrosorbitol, 1,5-anhydrosorbitol and 1,4,3,6-dianhydrosorbitol. Sorbitan is primarily used in the production of surfactants such as polysorbates.
Sorbitan tristearate is a nonionic surfactant. It is variously used as a dispersing agent, emulsifier, and stabilizer, in food and in aerosol sprays. As a food additive, it has the E number E492. Brand names for polysorbates include Alkest, Canarcel, and Span. The consistency of sorbitan tristearate is waxy; its color is light cream to tan
Sorbitan Oleate is the monoester of oleic acid (a source of omegas) and hexitol anhydrides derived from sorbitol (often used as a humectant). 
About SORBITAN TRIOLEATE: Sorbitan Trioleate is a triester of oleic acid and hexitol anhydrides derived from sorbitol. 
When made from plants Sorbitan Stearate, Sorbitan Laurate, Sorbitan Sesquioleate, Sorbitan Oleate, Sorbitan Tristearate, Sorbitan Palmitate and Sorbitan Trioleate may be used in cosmetics and personal care products marketed in Europe according to the general provisions of the Cosmetics Regulation of the European Union. CIR Review: The CIR Expert Panel noted that as a class, the Sorbitan esters, including Sorbitan Stearate, are generally mild skin irritants but nonsensitizers. Sorbitan Stearate is not a photosensitizer. Sorbitan Stearate and Sorbitan Laurate were negative in carcinongenicity studies.
The safety of Sorbitan Stearate, Sorbitan Laurate, Sorbitan Sesquioleate, Sorbitan Oleate, Sorbitan Tristearate, Sorbitan Palmitate and Sorbitan Trioleate has been assessed by the Cosmetic Ingredient Review (CIR) Expert Panel. CIR Review: The CIR Expert Panel noted that as a class, the Sorbitan esters, including Sorbitan Stearate, are generally mild skin irritants but nonsensitizers. Sorbitan Stearate is not a photosensitizer. Sorbitan Stearate and Sorbitan Laurate were negative in carcinongenicity studies.
Sorbitan is a mixture of isomeric organic compounds derived from the dehydration of sorbitol. The mixture can vary, but usually consists of 1,4-anhydrosorbitol, 1,5-anhydrosorbitol and 1,4,3,6-dianhydrosorbitol. Sorbitan is primarily used in the production of surfactants such as polysorbates. Sorbitan is an intermediate in the conversion of sorbitol to isosorbide