Meaning of name Leena, Origin of name Leena, Personality of name Leena, Gallery of Cute Indian Baby Pictures of Leena and adorable Baby Photos of Leena. All this and lots more... If you believe in Numerology, click to see if the name Leena is lucky! 
Muslim Meaning: The name Leena is a Muslim baby name. In Muslim the meaning of the name Leena is: Tender. Irish Meaning: The name Leena is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Leena is: Wet meadow. SoulUrge Number: 11. Expression Number: 1. People with this name have a deep inner desire to inspire others in a higher cause, and to share their own strongly held views on spiritual matters.
The meaning of Leena is “Illumination, From Helena or Magdalena”. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Leena and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Leena and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds. If you consider naming your baby Leena we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
Leena /lee-na/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Greek, Old German, Slavic, Arabic and Latin derivation, and the meaning of Leena is sun ray; free man; palm tree. Leena is a version of Alina (Greek): Slavic form of Helen. Leena is also a derivative of Caroline (Old German). Leena is also used as a variation of Karolina (Slavic, Old German), Lena and Lina (Arabic, Latin). Kreatif forms: Leeda, Leenar. (2000 U.S. Census). Popular variation forms of Leena (not ranked) rated in the Top 1000 are Aleen, Aleena (#495 in 2014) , Alena (#617) , Alene, Alina (#192) , Aline, Allene, Carla (#864) , Caroline (#58) , Ina, Karla (#504) , Lena (#279) and Lina (#767) .
Lena or Leana or Lina is a female given name. The name has evolved in different languages as a variation of several earlier names. In some derivations, Lena comes from the endings of Alina and Helena. Lena is also a diminutive or short form for names that end with-line, such as Caroline, Adeline, and Madeline. Leana is seen in Hindi, Russian and Swedish
The first thing you should know if you are considering Leena for your baby's name is that in most countries all over the world the name Leena is a girl name. The name Leena is of English origin, and is used mostly in English speaking countries but also in a few other countries and languages of the world. If you consider naming your baby Leena we recommend you take note of the special meaning and history of the name as your baby’s name will play a big role in its life and your baby will hear it spoken every day.
[ 2 syll. lee-na, le-ena ] The baby girl name Leena is pronounced L IY-Naa- †. Leena's language of origin is Slavonic, Germanic, Old Greek, Bulgarian, Hebrew, and English, and it is used largely in the Estonian, English, and Indian languages. Leena is also a derivative (English and Indian) of Lena. Leena is also a derivative of Lina. Leena is unusual as a baby name for girls. It is not ranked within the top 1000 names. In 2012, out of the group of girl names directly linked to Leena, Caroline was the most widely used
Leena. Show similar names Show variant names. Name Leena generally means Woman of Magdala, is of Finnish, English, Indian origin, Name Leena is a Feminine (or Girl) name. This name is shared across persons, who are either Christian or Muslim or Hindu by religion. Name Leena belongs to rashi Mesh (Aries) with dominant planet Mars (Mangal) 