Shenzhen. Shenzhen, an important economic zone in China, is located in the southern parts of the Guangdong province along the eastern shore of the fertile Pearl River Delta. Situated very close to Hong Kong, Shenzhen Guangdong China became the first Special Economic Zone in China. Shenzhen in Guangdong China enjoys a sub-tropical maritime climate with the influence of the South Sea quite prominent on the city.
Shenzhen (深圳; Shēnzhen) shēnzhèn is one of the most populous cities In. China it is situated In Guangdong province adjacent To Hong. Kong it is approximately 100 (kilometres 62) mi south Of'china s-third largest, City. Guangzhou the city is on the list OF Unesco Creative. cities In 1979, Shenzhen — then a group of farming and fishing communities along the Hong Kong border with a total population of a few hundred thousand — was designated the first of China's Special Economic Zones (SEZs).
Shenzhen is located on the border with the Hong Kong SAR across the Sham Chun River and Sha Tau Kok River, 100 kilometres (62 mi) southeast of the provincial capital of Guangzhou, 60 kilometres (37 mi) south of the industrial city of Dongguan and 60 kilometres (37 mi) north-northeast of the city of Zhuhai. Shenzhen is a major financial center in southern China. The city is home to the Shenzhen Stock Exchange as well as the headquarters of numerous high-tech companies. It was dubbed as China's Silicon Valley due to this high concentration of technology companies.
Situated in the Pearl River Delta in China's Guangdong Province, Shenzhen Port is adjacent to Hong Kong. The city's 260-kilometre (162 mi) coastline is divided by the Kowloon Peninsula into two halves, the eastern and the western. Shenzhen is a major financial center in southern China. The city is home to the Shenzhen Stock Exchange as well as the headquarters of numerous high-tech companies. It was dubbed as China's Silicon Valley due to this high concentration of technology companies.
Shenzhen Maps. Our Shenzhen maps include a Shenzhen location map, a Guangdong Province Map, a Shenzhen street map, a Shenzhen district map, a Shenzhen port map, and a Shenzhen subway map. Shenzhen's Location In China Click to enlarge it! 
Shenzhen is located in the Pearl River Delta, bordering Hong Kong to the south, Huizhou to the north and northeast, Dongguan to the north and northwest. Lingding Yang (Lintin Sea) and Pearl River to the west and Mirs Bay to the east. Shenzhen is a major financial center in southern China. The city is home to the Shenzhen Stock Exchange as well as the headquarters of numerous high-tech companies. It was dubbed as China's Silicon Valley due to this high concentration of technology companies.
About Shenzhen. Shenzhen is located in the southern region of Guangdong Province, on the eastern shore of the Pearl River Delta. Near the Pearl River Delta and Hong Kong, Shenzhen's location gives it a geographical advantage for economic development. More than 30 years ago, it was a small fishing village called Baoan County. Splendid China. Located at the Overseas Chinese Town, Shenzhen, it houses scaled-down replicas of China's historical buildings, wonderful scenes and folk customs, in exhibits that are also positioned to replicate their geographical locations.
Shenzhen (. [ʂə́nʈʂə̂n] ; Chinese: 深圳) is a major city in Guangdong Province, China. Situated immediately north of Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, the area became China’s first and one of the most successful Special Economic Zones (SEZ). Shenzhen is a major financial center in southern China. The city is home to the Shenzhen Stock Exchange as well as the headquarters of numerous high-tech companies. It was dubbed as China's Silicon Valley due to this high concentration of technology companies.
Shenzhen-the sister city of Hong Kong. Shenzhen was designated as a special economic zone by the central government m 1980. The special economic zone has created an economic miracle in China, growing from a small fishing town to a prosperous modern city over the past 20 years. - Click here to view it in a new window(271kb). Shenzhen Subway Maps. Shenzhen China Map. 1000+ China Maps and China Travel Guide: Maps-of-China.net Home | China Maps | Province Maps | City Maps | Attraction Maps | Site Map | Links | Add maps to your site For Links, Advertisement, Comment, etc., please contact.