Rickets. Rickets is a nutritional disorder resulting from a lack of calcium in the bones of growing children. The condition is primarily due not to a lack of calcium in the diet, however, but rather to a lack of vitamin D, the nutrient necessary for the body to absorb and use calcium. In a culture rife with food options and a blossoming obesity epidemic, the fact that nutritional disorders still arise from inadequate nutritional intake is hard to conceive. Caloric intake alone does not prevent the most common nutritional disorders, however.
NUTRITIONAL CNS DISORDERS. The Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome (WKS) is a combination of oculomotor abnormalities and mental symptoms seen in malnourished patients with vitamin B1 (thiamine) deficiency. The topography of the lesions in the WKS resembles the Leigh syndrome, a metabolic disorder caused by defects of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex and the respiratory chain. This suggests that damage of sensitive CNS structures in the WKS is due to energy failure.
nutritional disorder Any morbid process or functional abnormality of the body due to the consumption of a diet not conforming to physiological requirements, or to failure of absorption or utilization of the food after ingestion. Cite this article. Pick a style below, and copy the text for your bibliography. MLA. Magazine article from: Current Psychiatry ...molecular transport, nutritional disease, endocrine system disorders, cell death, tissue morphology...psychiatric illnesses are not 1 disorder but syndromes comprised...but biologically different disorders.
How Nutrition Fits In. Bipolar disorder requires a comprehensive treatment plan to keep its mood swings in check. The basis of this plan is usually medication and psychotherapy, but there are a number of things that a person with bipolar disorder can do to help make this core treatment more effective. Discover how a healthy, nutrient-rich diet can be a valuable contribution to the overall treatment of bipolar disorder. There are a number of lifestyle improvements that can benefit anyone, but some can also positively contribute to the manage
Common Nutritional Disorders. Eating a variety of foods can prevent many nutritional disorders. In a culture rife with food options and a blossoming obesity epidemic, the fact that nutritional disorders still arise from inadequate nutritional intake is hard to conceive. Caloric intake alone does not prevent the most common nutritional disorders, however.
Nutrition & Metabolism Disorder Overview. Metabolism is the chemical process your body uses to transform the food you eat into the fuel that keeps you alive. Nutrition (food) consists of proteins, carbohydrates, and fats. For instance: 1  a missing enzyme or vitamin that is necessary for an important chemical reaction. 2  abnormal chemical reactions that hinder metabolic processes. 3  disease in the liver, pancreas, endocrine glands or other organs involved in metabolism. 4  nutritional deficiencies.
any medically-based or psychological state which stems from poor nutrition. These illnesses or dysfunctions are inclusive of vitamin deficiency illnesses or dysfunctions and obesity. 
The more common types of nutritional and metabolic disorders include: 1  Gaucher’s disease: This condition causes an inability to break down a particular kind of fat, which accumulates in the liver, spleen and bone marrow. For instance: 1  a missing enzyme or vitamin that is necessary for an important chemical reaction. 2  abnormal chemical reactions that hinder metabolic processes. 3  disease in the liver, pancreas, endocrine glands or other organs involved in metabolism. 4  nutritional deficiencies.
Health topics. Nutrition disorders can be caused by an insufficient intake of food or of certain nutrients, by an inability of the body to absorb and use nutrients, or by overconsumption of certain foods. Nutrition disorders. Nutrition disorders can be caused by an insufficient intake of food or of certain nutrients, by an inability of the body to absorb and use nutrients, or by overconsumption of certain foods.