If multiple button cell batteries need to be prepared for recycling, simply use a longer piece of packing tape and place each button cell side by side with the positive terminal against the tape. To ensure that the batteries stay together, place another length of packing tape over the negative terminal ends. Primary Lithium Button Cell Batteries (non-rechargeable). Special consideration must be taken to ensure all primary lithium button cell batteries have their positive terminals taped prior to recycling.
Other Primary Lithium Cell Batteries (non-rechargeable). Aside from the various button cell sizes, there are the more common AAA, AA, C, D and 9 Volt varieties. All of these batteries must have their positive terminals taped before recycling. Primary Lithium Button Cell Batteries (non-rechargeable). Special consideration must be taken to ensure all primary lithium button cell batteries have their positive terminals taped prior to
Should a rechargeable cell phone battery collection location not be available in your area, you can contact your cell phone provider or manufacturer. The major cell phone providers, including AT&T, Sprint, and Verizon, have their respective recycling and exchange programs. All parts of a cell phone battery can be reused to make other rechargeable batteries. Because there are parts of the battery that can be volatile in heat and when coming into contact with water, it is best not to dispose of cell phone batteries with the rest of household waste.
Button cell batteries are round, between 5 and 12 mm in diameter and commonly found in watches, hearing aids and calculators. According to the Mercury Education and Reduction Campaign, mercury was removed from alkaline batteries in 1996, but not from button cell batteries. Head to your nearest Home Depot, Battery Center or Ace Hardware with your dead batteries. These retailers and others let customers drop off batteries in store to be recycled. Visit Call2Recycle's website (see Resources) to find the nearest retail location for recycling your button cell batteries.
In our increasingly mobile world, batteries serve quite a purpose. They power our cars, portable electronics and items we use every day. Batteries can even be made out of vegetables. Batteries are identified by the product they're used for (car battery, cell phone battery, etc.) or its size (9V, button cell). But for scientific purposes, batteries' names are based on the metals they contain.
Instructions. Remove the dead button cell battery from your watch or other electronic device. Store the battery in a place where damage won't occur before recycling. If bringing your item to a store for battery replacement, it is fine to leave the battery in. Bring your dead battery to your nearest watch store. Head to your nearest Home Depot, Battery Center or Ace Hardware with your dead batteries. These retailers and others let customers drop off batteries in store to be recycled. Visit Call2Recycle's website (see Resources) to find the nearest retail location for recycling your button cell batteries.
Battery recycling by type [edit]. Most types of batteries can be recycled. However, some batteries are recycled more readily than others, such as lead-acid automotive batteries (nearly 90% are recycled) and button cells (because of the value and toxicity of their chemicals).
The same principles for recycling household waste are just as applicable to cell phone batteries. Recycling cell phone batteries reduces the amount of waste distributed in landfills each year. All parts of a cell phone battery can be reused to make other rechargeable batteries. Because there are parts of the battery that can be volatile in heat and when coming into contact with water, it is best not to dispose of cell phone batteries with the rest of household waste.