This pale amber-colored soy sauce, even lighter than light color soy sauce, originated in the Hekinan district of Aichi prefecture. Its flavor is bland, but with a strong sweetness, and it has a unique fragrance. It is used in cooking dishes such as soups and chawanmushi egg custard, using its fragrance and light color. 
Soy sauce (also called soya sauce) is a condiment made from a fermented paste of boiled soybeans, roasted grain, brine, and Aspergillus oryzae or Aspergillus sojae molds. After fermentation, the paste is pressed, producing a liquid, which is the soy sauce, and a solid byproduct, which is often used as animal feed. Many kinds of soy sauce are made in Japan, Taiwan, China, Korea, Indonesia, Vietnam, Burma and other countries. Variation is usually achieved as the result of different methods and durations of fermentation, different ratios of water, salt, and fermented soy, or through the addition of other ingredients.
Types of Chinese Soy Sauce. There are two types of Chinese soy sauce: dark and light. Chinese dark soy sauce is very deep in color with high viscosity, and it contains additives such as caramel coloring and monosodium glutamate (MSG). Chinese light soy sauce has a lighter color with lower viscosity. In general, this soy sauce contains MSG and other additives used to control its strong saltiness.
Dark soy sauce is used throughout Asia and is a bit richer and thicker than the lighter varieties. It tends to have a chocolate brown color, and a pungent, rather than overly salty, flavor. It has a deep, rich flavor and can be used in place of other types of soy sauce in most recipes. It is especially nice as a table condiment where its unusual flavor can come through. Tamari is a deeply colored Japanese soy sauce which has a rich texture and intense flavor.
Varieties of soy sauce are salty, earthy, brownish liquids intended to season food while cooking or at the table. Many kinds of soy sauce are made in Japan, Taiwan, China, Korea, Indonesia, Vietnam, Burma and other countries. Variation is usually achieved as the result of different methods and durations of fermentation, different ratios of water, salt, and fermented soy, or through the addition of other ingredients.
Light soy sauce is also commonly used in dipping sauces. Cooking with dark soy sauce tends to deepen and develop its flavor. Chinese cooks use dark soy sauce more often than light when needing soy sauce during the cooking process. Molasses added to dark soy sauce has a similar effect. Dark soy sauce may also contain monosodium glutamate. Light soy sauce from China, on the other hand, may contain additives that help to temper its strong salty flavor. It
Soy sauce is a staple condiment and ingredient throughout all of Asia. Produced for thousands of years, soy sauce is a salty, brown liquid made from fermented soy beans mixed with some type of roasted grain (wheat, barley, or rice are common), injected with a special yeast mold, and liberally flavored with salt. It has a deep, rich flavor and can be used in place of other types of soy sauce in most recipes. It is especially nice as a table condiment where its unusual flavor can come through. Tamari is a deeply colored Japanese soy sauce which has a rich texture and intense flavor.
Chinese soy sauce can also be broken down into dark and light. Dark Chinese soy sauce is richer and less salty than light and might also have added sugar, like molasses. Light soy sauce is more common in Chinese cooking. It is thinner and often used as a light seasoning or for dipping sauces. Another category of soy sauce is low-sodium, which is made with extra chemicals.
Definition: Dark soy sauce is one of the two types of soy sauce used most often in Chinese cooking. (The other is light soy sauce). Aged for a longer period of time and with molasses or caramel and a bit of cornstarch added, dark soy sauce is thicker and darker in color than light soy sauce, with a more full-bodied flavor. It is also less salty
Kikkoman's All-Purpose is produced in the company's factory in Walworth, Wisconsin.  Less Sodium  soy sauce is made the same way as regular soy sauce, but about 40 percent of the salt is taken out post-brewing. Dark Japanese soy sauces have a deeper color, but actually taste less light. 