Thank you those of you who corrected the fact that Oh Well was Peter Green's onl;y Fleetwood Mac song that ever charted. In the UK, they outsold the Beattles AND the Stones in `1969. They began charting with the instrumental Albatross in 1968, as Chris in MA explains. So I would disagree that Oh Well was the only earlier era Fleetwood Mac song to receive radio play, though I do remember hearing that song on the radio at the time, too. Actually it was the song Hypnotized that caused me to find out about Fleetwood Mac's early days.
After the single was released, US versions of the Then Play On album were updated to include the song. The album edit of Oh Well simply joined the two sides of the single as one track, entitled Oh Well (lasting 8:56), so that Part 2's beginning is heard twice. This was repeated on the worldwide original CD release. A 1972 US reissue of the single featured just the electric Part 1 without the coda
Jones also wanted to write a song that people couldn't groove or dance to. In the December 2007 issue of Mojo magazine (pp. 81-2), Jones credited Howlin' Wolf with the inspiration for the beat: The start and stop a cappella verses were inspired by Fleetwood Mac's 1969 song Oh Well.. RE: Who sings the best version of Oh Well? I know fleetwood mac sings it, but i heard a version on the radio (the radio station was WDVE, if your from the pittsburgh area) and it sounded alot better.
Oh Well  is a song recorded by Fleetwood Mac in 1969, and composed by vocalist and lead guitarist Peter Green. It first appeared as a Fleetwood Mac single in various countries in 1969 and subsequently appeared on revised versions of that year's Then Play On album and the Greatest Hits album in 1971. The album edit of Oh Well simply joined the two sides of the single as one track, entitled Oh Well (lasting 8:56), so that Part 2's beginning is heard twice. This was repeated on the worldwide original CD release.
The Fleetwood Mac song Oh Well was written by Peter Green. Boyz II Men also have a song by the same title but with different lyrics, I could not find the author of that one though. Fiona Apple also wrote a song Oh Well, on Extraordinary Machine. Chanukah Oh Chanukah is a traditional folk song believed to be based on the melodies and lyrics of 3 different composers: Kopyt, Achron, and Stutschewsky.
Radio stations usually play the A-side, Oh Well (part 1).. The B-side is Oh Well (part 2), an orchestral piece that sounds completely different. Both parts were written by Peter Green and go together on the album, but Green has very strong feelings about which is the better part. The best bit was Part 2 on the other side of the record, he told Mojo in 1996. So I would disagree that Oh Well was the only earlier era Fleetwood Mac song to receive radio play, though I do remember hearing that song on the radio at the time, too. Actually it was the song Hypnotized that caused me to find out about Fleetwood Mac's early days.
Answer    is a song written by Bobby Montgomery that has become a pop standard. Originally written as a country song for Eddy Arnold, the song grew in popularity … after it was covered by jazz vocalist Ella Fitzgerald in 1967. 
This month’s songwriter’s notebook features “Spring Up, O Well.” I wrote this song while reading A.W. Tozer’s The Purpose of Man. It’s a great read and I recommend it, although not all of it is easy. He deals with the gospel account of the woman at the well with Jesus. She’s asking him about correct worship protocol. 
Oh Well was composed in two parts, Part 1 being a fast electric blues song with vocals (lasting 2:19), Part 2 being an entirely different instrumental piece with a classical influence (lasting 5:39). The album edit of Oh Well simply joined the two sides of the single as one track, entitled Oh Well (lasting 8:56), so that Part 2's beginning is heard twice. This was repeated on the worldwide original CD release.