About 900,000 objects fill the Rijksmuseum, the largest collection of art and history in the Netherlands. It is most famous for its paintings by 17th-century Dutch masters, including Ruysdael, Frans Hals, Johannes Vermeer, and Rembrandt van Rijn. Established in 1800 to exhibit the collections of the Dutch stadtholders, the Rijksmuseum also displays art from the Middle Ages. The museum’s focal point is Western European art—120 rooms in four buildings ranging from the Middle Ages to the present day. Rembrandt, Rubens, Tiepolo, Titian, da Vinci, Picasso, Gauguin, Cezanne, cézanne Van, gogh And goya are all represented. Here for-in depth, tours Contact glories of The. hermitage
» The Tate Museum, London-is Britain's national museum exhibits international modern and contemporary art where you can view artworks from Matisse, Picasso, Dali, Dalí, pollock and countless. Others The tate located on the baks of The Thames river consists of The Tate, Britain Tate, Liverpool Tate St, ives And Tate. online Admission is free of charge. » The Tate Museum, London-is Britain's national museum exhibits international modern and contemporary art where you can view artworks from Matisse, Picasso, Dali, Dalí, pollock and countless. others
The Louvre is the world's largest and most famous museum, housing many works of art, including the Mona Lisa (La Joconde) and the Venus de Milo statue. Known as the Great Louvre, it is the national museum and art gallery of France. Francis I (a connoisseur of Art), initially started building the Louvre as part of the royal palace erected at a location where a 12th-century fortress of Philip Augustus existed. The palace underwent several additions over the centuries. Another annual art event held in Paris is the Art Paris Art Fair. During 2013, the fair attracted more visitors than in the previous year, when 1500 artists (43% from foreign countries) participated.
» The Louvre, Paris (Musee du Louvre) 99 rue de Rivoli, 75001 Paris, France-The Louvre Museum, past residence of the kings of France, is one of the largest museums in the world with 35,000 pieces of art. Admission is free of charge. » The Tate Museum, London-is Britain's national museum exhibits international modern and contemporary art where you can view artworks from Matisse, Picasso, Dali, Dalí, pollock and countless. others
Art in Paris is an article on the art culture and history in Paris, the capital of France. For centuries, Paris has attracted artists from around the world, arriving in the city to educate themselves and to seek inspiration from its artistic resources and galleries. Another annual art event held in Paris is the Art Paris Art Fair. During 2013, the fair attracted more visitors than in the previous year, when 1500 artists (43% from foreign countries) participated.
The Louvre in Paris is one of the world’s largest and most visited art museums in the world. The museum opened in 1793 and is housed in the Louvre Palace, a former royal palace. The famous glass pyramid which in the main courtyard of the Louvre Palace was added in 1989 and serves as the main entrance to the museum. Established 1872, the Tokyo National Museum is the oldest and largest museum in Japan. The museum’s collections focus on ancient Japanese art and Asian art along the Silk Road. There is also a large collection of Greco-Buddhist art.
As a result, Paris has acquired a reputation as the City of Art. Home to some of the world's most famous museums and galleries, including the Louvre and the Musee musée'D, orsay the city today remains home to a thriving community of. artists Another annual art event held in Paris is the Art Paris Art Fair. During 2013, the fair attracted more visitors than in the previous year, when 1500 artists (43% from foreign countries) participated.
An art museum, also known as an art gallery, is a space for the exhibition of art, usually in the form of art objects from the visual arts, primarily paintings, illustrations, and sculpture. Collections of drawings and old master prints are often not displayed on the walls, but kept in a print room. 
Musee musée'D. Orsay located on the left bank Of Seine, River musee’Musée d orsay is one of famous Museums, In. Paris france taking place in a former, Railway station’Gare d orsay which was built in 1898, to 1900 the museum is home To numerous, french, sculptures, furniture paintings and photography produced between 1848. to 1914 
During the surrealist movement, the artist moved to Paris, became acquainted with Picasso and Magritte, among other artists, and had his first exposition of 11 paintings. The Espace Dali (daliparis.com) in Montmartre is an art museum dedicated to this famous artist of the 20th century. The museum displays over 300 of Dali's original paintings, sculptures and engravings. This museum houses over 35,000 works of art in over 60,000 square meters of space for its permanent collections. The Louvre is home to some of the most famous original works of art in the world, including Da Vinci's Mona Lisa, some of which date back to the 12