Koalas live in southeastern and eastern Australia — in the states of Queensland, new South Wales, South Australia and Victoria — in the eucalyptus forests and woodlands. They live in eucalyptus trees and spend most of their time wedged between forks in the tree's branches.
Koalas live in eucalypt woodlands and forests. Home range size varies according to quality of habitat, ranging from less than two hectares to several hundred hectares. Koalas are found between south-eastern South Australia and Queensland, but only where enough suitable trees have been left. The largest koalas weigh over 10 kilograms and are found in Victoria, while the smallest live in North Queensland and weigh only 5.5 kilograms.
The three kinds of koalas; Victoria koala, the New South Wales koala, and the Queensland koala, are named after the states in which they live. Victoria koala. Lives in the southern part of Australia, where the climate is cool.
So, where do Koalas live anyway? The Koala’s habitat are woodland areas that have certain types of eucalyptus trees because eucalyptus leaves are the main diet of the Koala although certain gum trees can also serve as a food source.
Koalas do not live all over Australia. The koala lives mostly within the temperate zones of Australia. Its habitat is eucalypt woodland and bushland, but of the several hundred species of eucalyptus (gum trees), koalas prefer about 60 varieties, with their specific preferences being limited to a couple of dozen.
Koalas vary in height and weight according to the region where they  live.    Koalas in northern parts of Australia are smaller, with males  growing to 74 cm and weig … hing 9 kg, and females growing to 72 cm  and weighing 7.25 kg.
Koalas live in eastern Australia, where the eucalyptus trees they love are most plentiful. In fact, they rarely leave these trees, and their sharp claws and opposable digits easily keep them aloft.
Koalas live in the native eucalyptus bushland of Australia, both inland and near the coastal areas of the eastern states. They do climb other native trees, such as acacia (wat … tle) and melaleuca. Koalas are primarily arboreal, living high in gum trees in the temperate zone.
Red River gum trees, one of the species of eucalyptus that provide koalas with both food and shelter. The reddish brown area indicates where koalas live along the eastern coast of Australia. Koalas live in along, narrow strip of eastern Australia, near the coast of the Pacific Ocean.