Thermal desalination uses heat, often waste heat from power plants or refineries, to evaporate and condense water to purify it. In the most advanced desalination plants, such as those built by IDE, water is pretreated in order to improve the efficiency of the plants. To create clean water using this process, seawater or brackish water is pressurized against one surface of the membrane, causing salt-depleted water to move across the membrane, releasing clean water from the low-pressure side.
More generally, desalination may also refer to the removal of salts and minerals, as in soil desalination, which also happens to be a major issue for agricultural production. Salt water is desalinated to produce fresh water suitable for human consumption or irrigation. One potential by-product of desalination is salt. The Hadera seawater reverse osmosis (SWRO) desalination plant in Israel is the largest of its kind in the world. The project was developed as a build–operate–transfer by a consortium of two Israeli companies: Shikun and Binui, and IDE Technologies.
Because the process for desalination is the exact opposite, it?s called reverse osmosis, or just RO. A pre-treatment step is required before RO to provide high quality water and reduce membrane fouling. The most common pre-treatment steps include coagulation and filtration or microfiltration. Quick OutlineDesalination is a practical way of making salty water drinkable and it is used widely around the world now, especially in very dry countries and on ships and small islands. The process is quite expensive and it uses a lot of energy.
The coined term “nuclear desalination” defines production of potable water from seawater in a facility in which a nuclear reactor is used as the source of energy for the desalination process [2] . Electrical and/or thermal energy may be used in the desalination process. Protection from contamination is important, and if energy in the form of heat (hot water or steam) is supplied by a nuclear reactor to a desalination plant with a distillation process (MED or MSF), measures must be taken to avoid any conceivable risk.
Desalination was first used by Greek sailors in the 4th century BC to evaporate seawater and create drinking water. Today there are two main desalination technologies – membrane (RO) and thermal (MED, MVC and MSF) desalination. Reverse Osmosis (RO) desalination uses the principle of osmosis to remove salt and other impurities, by transferring water through a series of semi-permeable membranes. To create clean water using this process, seawater or brackish water is pressurized against one surface of the membrane, causing salt-depleted water to move across the membrane, releasing clean water from the low-pressure side.
Desalination means the removal of salts and minerals in either ocean or brackish water and make it safe for human consumption and use. Many methods for water purification and seawater desalinization have been used for a number of years starting in ancient times with good old fashion distillation (boil the wat … er and catch the condensate leaving the bad stuff behind). The leading method now is membrane based...reverse osmosis.
Nouns denoting natural processes. Synonyms: desalination; desalinisation; desalinization. Hypernyms (desalination is a kind of...): chemical action; chemical change; chemical process ((chemistry) any process determined by the atomic and molecular composition and structure of the substances involved).
A. Desalination means removing salt from saline (salty) water. Sea water is the basic source of water for our planet. But we can not use it for drinking or other domestic purposes because it is too salty. Desalination renders sea water usable for human inhabitation. A. Reverse osmosis is the most energy-efficient process in comparison with the other two desalination processes, namely, distillation and freeze-thawing. It takes certain minimum amount of mechanical energy, also known as free energy to remove one gallon of water from saline solution.
Since heat is vital in thermal desalination, the process is often linked to power plants and refineries to use waste heat. There are three main types of thermal desalination – vapour compression (VC), multi-effect distillation (MED) and multi-stage flash distillation (MSF). To create clean water using this process, seawater or brackish water is pressurized against one surface of the membrane, causing salt-depleted water to move across the membrane, releasing clean water from the low-pressure side.