Report Abuse. Typically you cannot set the temperature on the freezer section of a fridge freezer. Mark 6 is actually the coldest and on a new fridge freezer can often cause food to freeze solid particularly at the back! Correct setting varies according to model and things like wear and surrounding temperature/season. 
In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40° F (0-4 degrees Celsius). Your freezer must be below 32° F (0° Celsius). I keep mine as cold as it will go. Keep your freezer efficient by half-filling it with bottles of water. Your refrigerator probably isn't set right, and your food items may not be where they should be in your fridge. The kitchen fanatics at Stack Exchange offer a couple tips on ensuring your perishables don't perish.
Normally a domestic freezer is best set to −18 °C (0 °F) or colder, as that's what the expiration dates for many food items are based on. It's also a requirement for freezers in restaurants, supermarkets & other places that sell food (at least here in Europe) to maintain a temperature of at most -18 °C. A general purpose domestic fridge should be at around 1-4 °C (so, just above the freezing point, and below 5 °C). Normally it's not possible to set a fridge to 0 °C (at least not over here), but sometimes the temperature sensor doesn't work as intended, especially if there is a freezer compartment that is heavily frosted.
In order to keep food out of the Danger Zone, your fridge must be set between 32-40°F (0-4°C). Your freezer must be below 32°F (0°C). I keep mine as cold as it will go. Keep your freezer efficient by half-filling it with bottles of water. Normally it's not possible to set a fridge to 0 °C (at least not over here), but sometimes the temperature sensor doesn't work as intended, especially if there is a freezer compartment that is heavily frosted.
You should keep your fridge temperature set at 3°C and your freezer set at -19°C (or -18°C, depending on your model) all year-round. Recommendations for positioning your fridge-freezer. 
Therefore, you want your refrigerator to be cold, but not so cold that it freezes things. The preferred temperature is somewhere between 35 and 38 degrees F (1.7 to 3.3 degrees C). Anything higher and foods will spoil too quickly (it also presents food poisoning problems, as described in several of the links below). 
1 If you do lose power, keep the doors to your fridge and freezer closed as much as possible to keep foods cold. 2  Before using any foods, check your refrigerator and freezer thermometers. 3  If the fridge is still at or below 40 °F, or the food has been above 40 °F for only two hours or less, it should be safe to eat. 
The FDA advises that you should keep the temperature of your fridge between 32 and 40 degrees Fahrenheit, preferably right in the middle of that range, at, say, 35 degrees. Set the temperature at 35, and you avoid the risk of frozen food (that’s what the freezer’s for!) and you avoid the risk of spoilage. While you’re at it with the fridge, make sure to set your freezer temperature below 32 degrees. This sounds super obvious, but it’s super important. A freezer that doesn’t freeze your food properly is an annoying health hazard. Don’t mess around with frozen food: set your freezer at 0 degrees Fahrenheit.
So, in conclusion: set your fridge temp at 35 and be mindful of what you put in the door. While you’re at it with the fridge, make sure to set your freezer temperature below 32 degrees. This sounds super obvious, but it’s super important. A freezer that doesn’t freeze your food properly is an annoying health hazard. Don’t mess around with frozen food: set your freezer at 0 degrees Fahrenheit.