Painted turtles feed mainly on plants, small animals, such as fish, crustaceans, aquatic insects, and some carrion. Young painted turtles are mainly carnivorous, acquiring a taste for plants later in life. Because they have no teeth, the turtle jaw has tough, horny plates for gripping food. 
What do turtles eat in the wild. What turtles in the wild eat depends greatly on the type of turtle and its natural habitat. Wild turtles typically eat a lot of plants that grow in the water, small insects, snails, worms, and even dead marine animals and fish. Protein is very important for wild turtle's to grow. This is why many wild turtles are carnivorous when they are young and then gradually start eating plants and vegetation as they age. The ideal diet for most adult turtles are protein, including cooked meat, insects, and cooked eggs, and leafy vegetables. Many turtles also like fruit and even flowers. Never feed a turtle dairy products, as their stomach cannot properly digest lactose. Also steer clear of giving turtles processed foods.
Diet. Baby painted turtles are carnivorous, which means they eat other living things. The diet of baby painted turtles consists of small fish, worms, insects and tadpoles. They also eat carrion, or dead fish and insects. As painted turtles mature, they add plants to their diet
So to answer the question of what do painted turtles eat... a little bit of every thing. Some leafy greens and veggies, some proteins in the form of turtle pellets and/or insects and most fruits. The average adult is fed every other day, and for some every three days depending on the turtles size and age. 
So to answer the question of what do painted turtles eat... a little bit of every thing. Some leafy greens and veggies, some proteins in the form of turtle pellets and/or insects and most fruits. The average adult is fed every other day, and for some every three days depending on the turtles size and age. Painted turtles are omnivores, meaning they eat a mixture of animal and plant material. Younger turtles eat more animal protein than adults, though. Juveniles should be fed daily, but adults can be fed every 2-3 days.
Home. What turtles in the wild eat depends greatly on the type of turtle and its natural habitat. Wild turtles typically eat a lot of plants that grow in the water, small insects, snails, worms, and even dead marine animals and fish. Protein is very important for wild turtle's to grow. This is why many wild turtles are carnivorous when they are young and then gradually start eating plants and vegetation as they age. The ideal diet for most adult turtles are protein, including cooked meat, insects, and cooked eggs, and leafy vegetables. Many turtles also like fruit and even flowers. Never feed a turtle dairy products, as their stomach cannot properly digest lactose. Also steer clear of giving turtles processed foods.
The first thing to know is that what turtles eat changes as it grows. Baby Turtles When the painted turtles are juveniles they tend to be more carnivorous. This is logical as protein is essential for development of strong muscles and early brain development. Most people recognize these turtles from their red and yellow markings, but when asked what do painted turtles eat most people aren't s … ure. Turtles are not as widely understood as dogs and cats and this can lead to confusion about feeding. Turtles are versatile animals for the most part.
Painted turtles are omnivores, meaning they eat a mixture of animal and plant material. Younger turtles eat more animal protein than adults, though. Juveniles should be fed da … ily, but adults can be fed every 2-3 days. Turtles can be fed a mixture of prepared commercial food and fresh food. Special food formulated for turtles can be used, but this should not make up any more than 25% of the total diet. Most people recognize these turtles from their red and yellow markings, but when asked what do painted turtles eat most people aren't s … ure. Turtles are not as widely understood as dogs and cats and this can lead to confusion about feeding. Turtles are versatile animals for the most part.
The turtle eats aquatic vegetation, algae, and small water creatures including insects, crustaceans, and fish. Although they are frequently consumed as eggs or hatchlings by rodents, canines, and snakes, the adult turtles' hard shells protect them from most predators. The painted turtle (Chrysemys picta) is the most widespread native turtle of North America. It lives in slow-moving fresh waters, from southern Canada to Louisiana and northern Mexico, and from the Atlantic to the Pacific.
So to answer the question of what do painted turtles eat... a little bit of every thing. Some leafy greens and veggies, some proteins in the form of turtle pellets and/or insects and most fruits. The average adult is fed every other day, and for some every three days depending on the turtles size and age. Most people recognize these turtles from their red and yellow markings, but when asked what do painted turtles eat most people aren't s … ure. Turtles are not as widely understood as dogs and cats and this can lead to confusion about feeding. Turtles are versatile animals for the most part.