A fossil fuel is any hydrocarbon that may be used as a source of  energy. Coal, oil and natural gas are the three basic fossil fuels,  formed 300 million years ago from orga … nic plant and animal life  subjected to great heat and pressure under the ground. The difference between a nuclear power station and a fossil fuel power station is primarily the source of heat. The nuclear power station uses a nuclear reactor to generate he … at, while the fossil fuel power station uses coal or natural gas to generate heat.
Natural gas is a gaseous fossil fuel that is versatile, abundant and relatively clean compared to coal and oil. Like oil, it is formed from the remains of marine microorganisms. It is a relatively new type of energy source. Until 1999, more coal was used than natural gas. There are three types of fossil fuels which can all be used for energy provision; coal, oil and natural gas. Coal is a solid fossil fuel formed over millions of years by decay of land vegetation. When layers are compacted and heated over time, deposits are turned into coal.
The age of the organisms and their resulting  fossil fuels is typically millions of years and sometimes exceeds  650 million years. Fossil fuels contain high percentages of carbon  and include coal, petroleum, and natural gas. When the carbon in  the fuel is burnt with oxygen from the atmosphere, the energy that  was used in photosynthesis is released and carbon dioxide is  re-formed.    Coal, oil, and natural gas are fossil fuel. When they are used they  are gone forever. They are called non-renewable. The difference between a nuclear power station and a fossil fuel power station is primarily the source of heat. The nuclear power station uses a nuclear reactor to generate he … at, while the fossil fuel power station uses coal or natural gas to generate heat.
Where Fossil Fuels Come From. There are three major forms of fossil fuels: coal, oil and natural gas. All three were formed many hundreds of millions of years ago before the time of the dinosaurs – hence the name fossil fuels. The age they were formed is called the Carboniferous Period. It was part of the Paleozoic Era.
Fossil Fuels-a more detailed look. The most common fossil fuels are coal, oil, and natural gas. Peat, a very young form of coal, and oil shale are types of fossil fuel. These fuels were formed millions of years ago from plants and animals that died and decomposed beneath tons of soil and rock. These fossil fuels are not fossils like the bones of prehistoric creatures. Prehistoric fossils are hard and made of stone
Although fossil fuels are continually being formed via natural processes, they are generally considered to be non-renewable resources because they take millions of years to form and the known viable reserves are being depleted much faster than new ones are being made. Fossil fuels are fuels formed by natural processes such as anaerobic decomposition of buried dead organisms. The age of the organisms and their resulting fossil fuels is typically millions of years, and sometimes exceeds 650 million years. Fossil fuels contain high percentages of carbon and include coal, petroleum and natural gas. Other more commonly used derivatives of fossil fuels include kerosene and propan
Fossil fuels are non-renewable energy sources that formed more than 300 million years ago during the Carboniferous Period-long before dinosaurs roamed the Earth. Fossil fuels are made up of plant and animal matter. 11. Fossil fuels are non-renewable energy sources that formed more than 300 million years ago during the Carboniferous Period-long before dinosaurs roamed the Earth. Fossil fuels are made up of plant and animal matter. When plants and animals died, their bodies decomposed and were buried under layers of earth.
Oil is a liquid fossil fuel that is formed from the remains of marine microorganisms deposited on the sea floor. After millions of years the deposits end up in rock and sediment where oil is trapped in small spaces. It can be extracted by large drilling platforms. Oil is the most widely used fossil fuel. There are three types of fossil fuels which can all be used for energy provision; coal, oil and natural gas. Coal is a solid fossil fuel formed over millions of years by decay of land vegetation. When layers are compacted and heated over time, deposits are turned into coal.
The most common fossil fuels are coal, oil, and natural gas. Peat, a very young form of coal, and oil shale are types of fossil fuel. These fuels were formed millions of years ago from plants and animals that died and decomposed beneath tons of soil and rock. These fossil fuels are not fossils like the bones of prehistoric creatures.