As presiding prelate of the Praise Covenant Interdenominational Fellowship, Bishop Brown is committed to the synergistic fellowship of those churches and ministries which comprise PCIF while recognizing the need for networking, accountability, fellowship, and resource sharing.
The archetypal prelate is a bishop, whose prelature is his particular church. All other prelates, including the regular prelates such as abbots and major superiors, are based upon this original model of prelacy.
1st Presiding Prelate ~ Apostle R. C. Williams. June 15, 1929 - June 13, 2010. Roy Constantine Williams, Pastor and General Overseer of the Church of Jesus Christ, Apostolic (Inc.) is a servant of God committed to building, nurturing and sharing of the Gospel worldwide.
prelate. noun prel·ate \ˈpre-lət also ˈprē-ˌlāt\. Tweet. : a high-ranking Christian priest: a bishop, cardinal, etc.
Bishop Lloyd L. Faulknor is now the Presiding Prelate of First United Tabernacle International Ministries (F.U.T.I.M.) Inc. and the Senior Pastor of the headquarters church. In addition, he is the Deputy Presiding Bishop of Mount Carmel Apostolic Ministries located in Jamaica, West Indies. He presides over churches in Antigua, Grand Cayman and the United States of America. He is a diligent and hard worker both temporally and spiritually.
Home About Us Presiding Prelate. Charles Edward Johnson was born September 23, 1948, in Chester, PA to James and Dorothy Johnson. His family would later move to Paterson, NJ where he received his education, graduating from the famous Eastside High School in 1967.
He was later ordained as an Overseer by the late Presiding Bishop Monroe R. Saunders Sr. of the United Church of Jesus Christ (Apostolic) in the year 2000. By June of 2003, he was consecrated to the office a Bishop.
Along with serving as the Apostolic covering to many prolific and effective ministries. A Kingdom and Community Builder, Chief Apostle Olive C. Brown is the Presiding Prelate of the International Christian Ministries, Inc.