The term medium voltage (MV) is often used in electric power distribution and utilization. Electric power transmission is often considered to be high voltage only, but some definitions extend MV into the lower levels of power transmission voltage. For power distribution and utilization, LV would be about 100V to 600 or 1000V.
An electric power distribution system is the final stage in the delivery of electric power; it carries electricity from the transmission system to individual consumers. Many areas in the world use single-phase 220 V or 230 V residential and light industrial service. In this system, the high voltage distribution network supplies a few substations per area, and the 230 V power from each substation is directly distributed.
Include Medium-voltage switchgear and devices as well as systems and solutions for power distribution. From medium-to low-voltage power distribution-safe, flexible and efficient. As a global leading supplier for power distribution we contribute to a sustainable and responsible use of electrical energy.
Medium-Voltage Switchgear DescriptionBe it energy supply corporations, industry or power stations, any owner or user of primary distribution systems for medium voltage places high demands on the switchgear. These include reliable technology, ease of operation and economy. You are here: 
High voltage reference information, with issues relating to high voltage power supplies, transformers, capacitors, resistors, diodes and other components. Also included are high voltage design, various applications, safety, corona, and standards. Here are a few ways medium voltage is defined: ANSI/IEEE 1585-2002 refers to: Medium Voltage (1 - 35 kV). [It is assumed that this is ac.]. IEEE Std 1623-2004 refers to: Devices rated to medium voltage (1 kV-35 kV).
Medium Voltage (Click here for PDF) Return to Applications Motors rated 200 HP and above are often wound for Medium Voltage (2300VAC or 4160 VAC) instead of Low Voltage (480 VAC to 600 VAC). Above 1000 HP it is difficult to find motors that are not wound for Medium Voltage. Size: The physical size of a Medium Voltage AC Drive and Input Isolation Transformer is typically 125% to 150% larger than the size of a typical Low Voltage AC Drive with Input and Output Isolation Transformers. Medium Voltage AC Drives are often constructed in their own walk in enclosures.
The physical size of a Medium Voltage AC Drive and Input Isolation Transformer is typically 125% to 150% larger than the size of a typical Low Voltage AC Drive with Input and Output Isolation Transformers. Size: The physical size of a Medium Voltage AC Drive and Input Isolation Transformer is typically 125% to 150% larger than the size of a typical Low Voltage AC Drive with Input and Output Isolation Transformers. Medium Voltage AC Drives are often constructed in their own walk in enclosures.
Medium Voltage AC Drives are not inexpensive. The cost of a typical Low Voltage AC Drive and an Output (Step-Up) Isolation Transformer is typically only 50% to 75% of the cost of a Medium Voltage AC Drive. Size: The physical size of a Medium Voltage AC Drive and Input Isolation Transformer is typically 125% to 150% larger than the size of a typical Low Voltage AC Drive with Input and Output Isolation Transformers. Medium Voltage AC Drives are often constructed in their own walk in enclosures.
Various definitions exist. In general, medium voltage is a term used by the electrical power distribution industry. Here are a few ways medium voltage is defined: ANSI/IEEE 1585-2002 refers to: Medium Voltage (1 - 35 kV). [It is assumed that this is ac.]. IEEE Std 1623-2004 refers to: Devices rated to medium voltage (1 kV-35 kV).