Anemia is a condition that develops when your blood lacks enough healthy red blood cells or hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is a main part of red blood cells and binds oxygen. If you have too few or abnormal red blood cells, or your hemoglobin is abnormal or low, the cells in your body will not get enough oxygen. Symptoms of anemia -- like fatigue -- occur because organs aren't getting what they need to function properly.
Anemia is a process, not a disease, and is the most common disorder of the blood. Anemia occurs when the amount of red blood cells or hemoglobin (oxygen-carrying protein in the blood) in the blood becomes low, causing the tissues of the body to be deprived of oxygen-rich blood. There are also many other symptoms that can accompany the symptoms of anemia, depending on the disease, disorder or condition that is causing anemia. Complications of anemia can be serious, even life-threatening. Underlying diseases, disorders or conditions of anemia can also cause complications.
Anemia of chronic disease is usually a mild or moderate condition. In mild cases, anemia may not be associated with any symptoms or may cause fatigue, paleness of the skin (pallor) and lightheadedness. The underlying mechanisms that cause anemia of chronic disease are complex and not fully understood. In most cases, anemia is usually mild or moderate. Affected individuals may develop a variety of symptoms such as fatigue, paleness of the skin (pallor), lightheadedness, shortness of breath, a fast heartbeat, irritability, chest pain and additional findings.
Anemia of chronic disease is usually a mild or moderate condition. In mild cases, anemia may not be associated with any symptoms or may cause fatigue, paleness of the skin (pallor) and lightheadedness. The underlying mechanisms that cause anemia of chronic disease are complex and not fully understood. General Discussion. Anemia of chronic disease is a condition that can be associated with many different underlying disorders including chronic illnesses such as cancer, certain infections, and autoimmune and inflammatory diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis or lupus.
Other symptoms of anemia can include bleeding, vomiting blood, black tarry stools (melana), fever, severe bone pain, abdominal pain, weight loss, loss of appetite, and depression. Symptoms can also include flu-like symptoms, muscle aches, vomiting, and diarrhea. Because anemia is a symptom of an underlying disease, condition or disorder, some of which can be serious, any symptoms of anemia should be evaluated by a physician or other licensed health care provider.... more about Anemia ».
1 Other less common causes of anemia include thyroid problems, cancers, liver disease, autoimmune diseases (lupus), paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH), lead poisoning, AIDS, malaria, viral hepatitis, mononucleosis, parasitic infections (hookworm), bleeding disorders, and insecticide exposure. 1 Bone marrow-related anemia: Anemia may be related to diseases involving the bone marrow. 2  Some blood cancers such as leukemia or lymphomas can alter the production of red blood cells and result in anemia. 3  Other processes may be related to a cancer from another organ spreading to
1 The major causes of this type are iron deficiency (low level iron) anemia and thalassemia (inherited disorders of hemoglobin). 2  If the red blood cells size are normal in size (but low in number), this is called normocytic anemia, such as anemia that accompanies chronic disease or anemia related to kidney disease. 
Anemia: Symptoms. Symptoms of anemia can vary greatly from person to person, depending on the severity of anemia and the underlying cause. Symptoms can be mild to severe and can include symptoms of complications, such as hypotension and shock. In anemia, there are a low number of red blood cells in the blood. There are also many other symptoms that can accompany the symptoms of anemia, depending on the disease, disorder or condition that is causing anemia. Complications of anemia can be serious, even life-threatening. Underlying diseases, disorders or conditions of anemia can also cause complications.