homozygous dominant means two alleles that are the same that are capital letters, heterozygous recessive means that to alleles are different BUT the same letters in lower case … . (alleles for gender) EX: TT, Tt is homozygous dominant tt, tt is heterozgous recessive. 7 people found this useful. 
If a cat (or a person, or a pea plant) has two dominant alleles of a certain gene, we say it is homozygous dominant for that particular trait. Many genes come in two versions: the dominant allele and the recessive allele. Since diploid organisms (like you and me) have two copies of each of our genes, we could have one of each allele and be heterozygous or have two of the same and be homozygous.
Homozygous dominant-means having dominant alleles at the same locus on a chromosome.More correctly, it's the same locus on two chromosomes (a homologous pair). For simple homozygous dominant, it would be AA. (Note: The letters 'AA' are not neccessarily what it would be. It depends on the trait, if it's the color green let's say, it w … ould be probably GG. It doesn't really matter what letters, just as long as they are uppercased and the same.
Best Answer: Well, homozygous means same so a homozygous recessive trait would be a same [with parents] trait that is not the stronger trait which is dominant. Dominant= stronger showing trait, recessive= weaker trait. If you are dealing with Punnett squares then tt= homozygous recessive and TT= homozygous dominant. homozygous recessive is the same genotype but all lower case letter, homozygous Dominant is the same genotype but its all capital letters, of couse homozygous dominant is always the dominant trait of the gene pool.
Homozygous and Heterozygous. If an organism has two copies of the same allele, for example AA or aa, it is homozygous for that trait. If the organism has one copy of two different alleles, for example Aa, it is heterozygous. Keep in mind that an organism can't simply be 'homozygous,' period.
Homozygous dominant is a genotype that consists of two dominant alleles for a gene. Although a homozygous dominant cat might have the same phenotype, or appearance, as a heterozygous one, the difference is that the homozygous dominant individual will 'breed true'. Many genes come in two versions: the dominant allele and the recessive allele. Since diploid organisms (like you and me) have two copies of each of our genes, we could have one of each allele and be heterozygous or have two of the same and be homozygous.
When an organism is homozygous-dominant for a particular trait, the genotype is represented by a doubling of the symbol for that trait, such as PP. An individual that is homozygous-recessive for a particular trait carries two copies of the allele that codes for the recessive trait. A cell is said to be homozygous for a particular gene when identical alleles of the gene are present on both homologous chromosomes. The cell or organism in question is called a homozygote. True breeding organisms are always homozygous for the traits that are to be held constant.
Homozygous means that the organism has two copies of the same allele for a gene. An organism can be homozygous dominant, if it carries two copies of the same dominant allele, or homozygous recessive, if it carries two copies of the same recessive allele. Heterozygous means that an organism has two different alleles of a gene. For example, pea plants can have red flowers and either be homozygous dominant (red-red), or heterozygous (red-white). If they have white flowers, then they are homozygous recessive (white-white). Carriers are always heterozygous.
Following are some examples of homozygous genes. 1  The dominant trait for eye color is brown, represented by BB. 2  All other eye colors – blue, grey, green, and hazel – are recessive traits, represented by bb. 3  A homozygous brown eyed person would have the BB gene, while a homozygous blue eyed person would have the bb gene. 
I would think the opposite of homozygous dominant is homozygous recessive. A genotype that is homozygous dominant contains two dominant alleles (forms of the gene), and one th … at is homozygous recessive contains two recessive alleles. Heterozygous would be in between the other two, with one dominant and one recessive allele. 3 people found this useful. For simple homozygous dominant, it would be AA. (Note: The letters 'AA' are not neccessarily what it would be. It depends on the trait, if it's the color green let's say, it w … ould be probably GG. It doesn't really matter what letters, just as long as they are uppercased and the same.