Best Answer: ginger helps settle the stomach, and reduces nausea. ginseng is thought to be used for physical and mental sharpness, but numerous studies have concluded no actual benefit to taking ginseng. Asian ginsing is more heating and works best with people with a faster metabolism. Ginger is probably best known as a digestive aid. It works great for morning sickness, car sickness or any kind of motion sickness for that matter.
Ginger root Photo Credit Thinkstock Images/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Ginger root and ginseng root are not the same; ginger is a different plant than any of the types of ginseng root. Ginger is native to Asia, and is the underground stem of the Zingiber officinale plant. Ginseng root can refer to American ginseng, Panax quinquefolius; Asian ginseng, Panax ginseng; or Siberian ginseng, Eleutherococcus senticosus. All three plants have different origins and perform different functions, but they are collectively called ginseng.
Chinese used ginseng in alot of herbal remedies. Ginger to me is like normal food, or something used for cooking to add flavour. Ginger and ginseng taste very very different. I am pretty sure most people cant appreciate the taste of ginseng, especially if its their first time. Just like the difference between a dog and a cat. Both have medicinal uses, but ginger is also a food herb. There are those who claim that ginsing can help with any one of a large number of diseases and conditions, including colds, diabetes, cancer, and menopausal difficulties.
Ginseng leaf, although not as highly prized, is sometimes also used. Folk medicine attributes various benefits to oral use of American ginseng and Asian ginseng (P. ginseng) roots, including roles as an aphrodisiac, stimulant, type II diabetes treatment, or cure for sexual dysfunction in men. Ginseng (/ˈdʒɪnsɛŋ/) is any one of the 11 species of slow-growing perennial plants with fleshy roots, belonging to the genus Panax of the family Araliaceae. Ginseng is found in North America and in eastern Asia (mostly Korea, northeast China, Bhutan, eastern Siberia), typically in cooler climates.
A lot of people buy ginseng drinks or extracts of ginseng to get a kick of energy or combat sicknesses. Ginger is a spice used for seasoning foods or other flavorful uses in the kitchen. rotlla · 10 years ago. Thumbs up. Just like the difference between a dog and a cat. Both have medicinal uses, but ginger is also a food herb. There are those who claim that ginsing can help with any one of a large number of diseases and conditions, including colds, diabetes, cancer, and menopausal difficulties.
Credit: Gary Kauffman/U.S. Forest Service. American ginseng (Panax quinquefolius) is native to deciduous forests (forests that lose their leaves every year) of the United States from the Midwest to Maine, primarily in the Appalachian and Ozark regions, and also in eastern Canada. It is also grown on ginseng farms. Ginseng root is exported in larger volumes than any other native CITES plant species. The majority of American ginseng harvested is exported to China. In the United States, the harvest of wild American ginseng for international trade began in the mid-1700s.
Learn to identify all the stages of American ginseng. Learn to identify all the stages of American ginseng. American ginseng (Panax quinquefolius) is a native North American herbaceous plant which has unique chemical properties that make it economically useful. 
Ginseng. The name ginseng applies to various herbs that have been used for health purposes for many centuries. Asian ginseng (Panax ginseng) is one of several types of true ginseng; another is American ginseng, Panax quinquefolius. An herb called Siberian ginseng or eleuthero (Eleutherococcus senticosus) is not a true ginseng.
Ginger root and ginseng root are not the same; ginger is a different plant than any of the types of ginseng root. Ginseng root can refer to American ginseng, Panax quinquefolius; Asian ginseng, Panax ginseng; or Siberian ginseng, Eleutherococcus senticosus. All three plants have different origins and perform different functions, but they are collectively called ginseng.
Ginger. Traditional uses of ginger root include treatments for gastrointestinal issues including upset stomach, nausea and diarrhea. It is also used as a digestive aid. Modern health care professionals recommend ginger root for treating the nausea and vomiting that accompany pregnancy and chemotherapy. Ginseng root can refer to American ginseng, Panax quinquefolius; Asian ginseng, Panax ginseng; or Siberian ginseng, Eleutherococcus senticosus. All three plants have different origins and perform different functions, but they are collectively called ginseng.