Average Cost to Install a Sump Pump. The average cost to install a sump pump is $1,212. Most home owners spend between $968 and $1,466 to have a sump pump installed. The actual cost that a home owner can expect to pay for installation will depend on the type of pump, whether there is already a hole for drainage, and whether additional features and accessories are needed. Sump pumps are installed in the lowest level of a home and are used to move water away from the foundation. The pump transfers water to prevent structural damage and flooding in a home.
Average Cost to Repair a Sump Pump. According to home repair experts, the average cost to repair a sump pump is $454. Most homeowners pay between $378 and $530 for a sump pump repair. A submersible sump pump will cost more to fix than a pedestal pump. The average lifespan of a submersible sump pump is seven years, while a pedestal pump usually lasts for 10 years. If the estimated repair cost is more than 1/3 the price of installing a new sump pump, it's usually a wise idea to replace it, as more parts could fail just when a heavy rain or flood occurs.
1 An average installation of a sump basin and pump (not including drains) runs about $250-$600 for parts and labor, depending on the quality of the equipment, ease of access and local rates. 2  One homeowner had a plumber install a middle-of-the-line sump pump and basin for $305. 1 A submersible sump pump costs more and only lasts 5-15 years, but is typically quieter and less obtrusive than a pedestal model. 2  Both types of sump pumps range in horsepower from a quarter to 1HP; a 1/3HP sump pump is standard for most homes.
Sump Pump Prices. Buying a sump pump can cost anywhere from $100 to $1000. The cost discrepancy lies with the type of sump pump you get and the horsepower you need. They range from ¼ horsepower to 1 horsepower motors. Most average homes can make do with ½ horsepower. A typical plastic ½ horsepower model will cost $100 to $200. The sturdier stainless steel or brass units cost more, but will last much longer and are designed for constant use. A heavy duty steel sump pump with ½ horsepower will run from $300 to $500.
1 An average sump pump (pedestal or submersible) for a typical home runs about $100-$300 depending on the horsepower, materials (plastic is less expensive than cast iron or stainless steel), flow rate and the height the water needs to be lifted to discharge it. 1 A submersible sump pump costs more and only lasts 5-15 years, but is typically quieter and less obtrusive than a pedestal model. 2  Both types of sump pumps range in horsepower from a quarter to 1HP; a 1/3HP sump pump is standard for most homes.
1 Average total costs for a do-it-yourself installation of basin, pump, gravel and cement can run $150-$350. 2  Labor to replace an existing sump pump with a similar new model runs around $50-$150 or more. 1 A submersible sump pump costs more and only lasts 5-15 years, but is typically quieter and less obtrusive than a pedestal model. 2  Both types of sump pumps range in horsepower from a quarter to 1HP; a 1/3HP sump pump is standard for most homes.
Sump Pump Costs. The cost of installing sump pumps is significantly less if a homeowner installs a sump pump himself. A sump pump with a baseboard drainage system could cost between $600 to $1,500 if the homeowner installs it himself, according to OldHouseWeb.com. A perimeter drain around the interior of the basement may require a professional, and can cost between $2,000 and $4,000
On average, sump pump installation costs $1,015, with most homeowners spending between $685 and $1,502. This data is based on actual project costs as reported by HomeAdvisor members. Sump pumps work almost everyday moving water away from your foundation to keep your house from flooding. 