Disease causing agents include viruses and bacteria, protozoa, worms and now dinoflagellates and diatoms that either enter from domestic sewage and animal wastes or thrive in conditions which give them a competitive edge. 
The most common disease-causing agents are viruses, bacteria, protozoa, and parasitic worms. Viruses are not living, but do get transferred between living organisms. The West Nile Virus is transferred from mosquitoes to humans. Vaccines are a good way to prevent the spread of viruses. Viruses are the disease-causing agent that most people are familiar with. They cause colds, the flu, HIV, meningitis, polio, chicken pox, rabies, West Nile, and a number of other diseases. Viruses themselves aren't living things, but they do get transmitted between living organisms.
An infectious disease or communicable disease is caused by a biological agent such as by a virus, bacterium or parasite. The vector does not have to be biological. Many infectious diseases are transmitted by droplets which enter the airway (e.g. common cold and tuberculosis). Infectious diseases are the invasion of a host organism by a foreign replicator, generally microorganisms, often called microbes, that are invisible to the naked eye. Microbes that cause illness are also known as pathogens. The most common pathogens are various bacteria and viruses, though a number of other microorganisms, including some kinds of fungi and protozoa, also cause disease. An infectious disease is termed contagious if it is easily transmitted from one person to another
The US federal government released the 11th edition of the Report on Carcinogens (December, 2004). This Report, published every two years by the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, identifies substances and circumstances that are known or are reasonably anticipated to cause cancer. Seventeen substances have been added to the growing list of cancer-causing agents, bringing the total to 246. For the first time ever, viruses are listed in the report: hepatitis B virus, hepatitis C virus, and some human papillomaviruses that cause common sexually transmitted diseases. The Report on Carcinogens, Eleventh Edition, referred to as the RoC, lists cancer-causing agents in two categories -- known to be human carcinogens and reasonably anticipated to be human carcinogens..
Diseases, which are any illness-causing conditions that affect an organism's body, are transmitted by disease-causing agents, which are biological pathogens that cause or spread disease. Disease-causing agents are delivered to your body through various carriers and they can get inside in all sorts of ways. The disease is worrisome, but the disease-causing agent is just as problematic because it is what actually transports the disease that makes you sick. Viruses are the disease-causing agent that most people are familiar with. They cause colds, the flu, HIV, meningitis, polio, chicken pox, rabies, West Nile, and a number of other diseases. Viruses themselves aren't living things, but they do get transmitted between living organisms.
In this video lesson you will identify different disease-causing agents. You will also explore examples of types of disease-causing agents and their effects on human health. Viruses are the disease-causing agent that most people are familiar with. They cause colds, the flu, HIV, meningitis, polio, chicken pox, rabies, West Nile, and a number of other diseases. Viruses themselves aren't living things, but they do get transmitted between living organisms.
Any entry way for bacteria is an entry way for disease-causing agents. Hand contact with someone w … ho has those agents can cause one to Once contact occurs, disease-causing agents, such as viruses and bacteria, may enter a person through breaks in the skin, or they may be inhaled or swallowed. A disease causing agent is often referred to as a pathogen. A pathogen, such as a virus or a strain of bacteria can enter the body and cause a host of symptoms. Ma … ny times, these symptoms collectively indicate the presence of a type of disease and/or infection. 13 people found this useful.