Whether your child has eczema or simply a tendency toward dry skin, the best way to keep him or her comfortable is with frequent moisturizing. 1  Limit baths to 10 minutes and use warm, not hot, water. 2  Daily baths are okay — even helpful — as long as they are brief. 3  Use mild soap or soap-free cleanser, sparingly. 1 Daily baths are okay — even helpful — as long as they are brief. 2  Use mild soap or soap-free cleanser, sparingly. 3  As soon as your child gets out of the tub or shower, pat him or her dry and apply a moisturizer immediately — within three minutes — to lock in the water that remains on the skin.
This is normal and will soon improve. Too much bathing and using a lot of soap can cause dry skin, or make skin worse if it’s already dry. This is because soap removes the skin’s natural oils, making it harder for your child’s skin to keep moisture in. Weather can also affect your child’s skin. 
1 Use mild soap or soap-free cleanser, sparingly. 2  As soon as your child gets out of the tub or shower, pat him or her dry and apply a moisturizer immediately — within three minutes — to lock in the water that remains on the skin. 3  Opt for a product that does not contain alcohol or fragrances, which can irritate the skin. 1 Daily baths are okay — even helpful — as long as they are brief. 2  Use mild soap or soap-free cleanser, sparingly. 3
Itch, itch, scratch, scratch: It's not dangerous or contagious, but dry skin or eczema in babies and children is quite common — and can be quite irritating. If your child is suffering, you need a two-pronged attack consisting of prevention and treatment. 1 Daily baths are okay — even helpful — as long as they are brief. 2  Use mild soap or soap-free cleanser, sparingly. 3  As soon as your child gets out of the tub or shower, pat him or her dry and apply a moisturizer immediately — within three minutes — to lock in the water that remains on the skin.
6 Quick and Easy Dry Skin Relievers. When you have flaky, itchy, dry skin, you want fast relief. Easing your dry skin isn't just about what you put on it. It also depends on how you clean your skin, the air around you, and even your clothes. Try these six tips to soothe your dry skin. 
1 Keep your child's skin moisturized. 2  Moisturizing should be a part of your child's daily treatment plan. 3  Use fragrance-free moisturizers. 4  Cream or ointment is more moisturizing than lotion. 5  After a bath, gently pat the skin with a towel and then apply moisturizer to the damp skin. 1 Moisturizing should be a part of your child's daily treatment plan. 2  Use fragrance-free moisturizers. 3  Cream or ointment is more moisturizing than lotion. 4
6. Use an aloe vera mask. After you have cleaned your skin, apply the mask to your face, and leave it for about 15 minutes. You can do this once or twice a week. Aloe vera is calming, moisturising, and the perfect treat for dry skin. If you like, gently massage the mask into your skin before you rinse it off
Avoid drying or aggravating ingredients. Don't use powders or perfumes on your child's skin, and consider using unscented laundry products. If your child's skin is especially sensitive, you may want to rinse his clothes twice, to remove all traces of soap residue. If your child's skin is very sensitive, don't dress him in clothing that's tight or rough. Also keep in mind that some fabrics, such as wool, can be especially irritating to dry skin
If your child's skin is still dry even with daily moisturizing, try switching from a lotion to a thicker cream or ointment. (Ointments are best at keeping moisture in the skin, but they can feel greasy. Just use small amounts and gently rub it into the skin. After a swim in the pool or ocean, rinse off your child with tap water, and then apply moisturizer while her skin's still damp. Run a humidifier. If the air in your home is dry, use a cool mist humidifier in your child's room. Keep your child well hydrated. Dry skin lacks moisture.