—An excerpt from one of the reports made on Adria's fire. Adria was born in Kingsport in the 1220s as the daughter of a merchant named Sevrin. At a young age, she resented her father, seeing him as more interested in his wealth and possessions than his own flesh and blood. Adria. Not long afterwards, , with the appearance of the Hellmouth at Tristram, Adria saw an opportunity to both strike a blow against the legions of Hell, and to make some profit in gold and magical artifacts in the process.
Adria is a town and comune in the province of Rovigo in the Veneto region of Northern Italy, situated between the mouths of the rivers Adige and Po. The remains of the Etruscan city of Atria or Hatria are to be found below the modern city, three to four metres below the current level. Adria and Spina were the Etruscan ports and depots for Felsina (now Bologna). Adria may have given its name during an early period to the Adriatic Sea, to which it was connected by channels
Adria the Witch is a witch who lives in the town of Tristram. She buys and sells scrolls, staves, spellbooks, and potions, and seeks a rare Black Mushroom for one of her concoctions. She is not a long-time resident of Tristram; she appeared only shortly before the troubles beneath the cathedral began. Taking Adria's gossip about Gillian in Diablo I into account, it is likely that she selected the barmaid to raise her daughter because of her pure heart. Both Leah and Deckard Cain are fully aware that Adria and Aidan are Leah's parents. In Diablo III, Adria is rescued by the nephalem hero and Leah.
Adria the Witch' is an NPC and quest-giving character deeply involved in the story of Diablo 3. While apparently friendly and helpful in her role as Leah 's long-lost mother, Adria harbors a secret agenda that leads up to the biggest plot twist of the story. Spoiler details below. 
detailed map of Adria and near places. Welcome to the Adria google satellite map! This place is situated in Rovigo, Veneto, Italy, its geographical coordinates are 45° 3' 23 North, 12° 3' 28. East and its original name (with diacritics) is Adria. See Adria photos and images from satellite below, explore the aerial photographs of Adria in Italy
1 Blood Rain: Adria's main weapon; every 25% of health, or every 45 seconds, she will use Whirlpool to move back to her starting position. 2  Once there, for 3 seconds she cannot perform any actions (and is vulnerable at that moment), and after that, calls down a rain of blood oozes. Adria. Not long afterwards, , with the appearance of the Hellmouth at Tristram, Adria saw an opportunity to both strike a blow against the legions of Hell, and to make some profit in gold and magical artifacts in the process.
In Diablo III it is learned that Adria is Leah 's birth mother, conceived by Aidan after his return from slaying Diablo and implanting the soulstone into his forehead. Shortly after Aidan's departure from Tristram as the Dark Wanderer, Adria, pregnant with Leah, fled to Caldeum with Gillian the Barmaid. Taking Adria's gossip about Gillian in Diablo I into account, it is likely that she selected the barmaid to raise her daughter because of her pure heart. Both Leah and Deckard Cain are fully aware that Adria and Aidan are Leah's parents. In Diablo III, Adria is rescued by the nephalem hero and Leah.
Welcome to adria-caravans.com. adria-caravans.com is a Venture Caravans website. Venture Caravans are the largest Adria Caravans dealership in the UK and are passionate about Adria and here's why: Adria are one of the largest European Caravan and Motorhome manufacturers. They concentrate on making a well built caravan that will last.