One of Spain's biggest draws comes in the form of its tasty cuisine. Characterized by fresh ingredients, mild flavors and the perfect use of seasonings, Spain's traditional food dishes come in the form of hearty family cooking. Recipes are passed down from generation to generation, and have several influences.
Another traditional Spanish food, queso manchego is typically eaten together with jamon jamón serrano or. Iberico ibérico queso manchego is’a sheep s milk cheese From The la mancha Region. Of spain it is firm and buttery and a wonderful complement To many. spanish dishes
Spanish Food. Food and family are the essence of Spain. Since 1996 we have been traveling the countryside of Spain seeking out remarkable foods, especially those made by small family producers. It is our mission to offer the very best food from Spain, thereby helping preserve traditional Spanish culture and cuisine.
There are many regional specialties throughout the country, but there are a number of foods that most Spaniards prepare. If you are in Spain, make sure to try these tasty dishes.
Paella. Originating in Valencia, paella is a rice dish prepared with seafood. Of all the foods in Spain, this is the most popular. In this dish, savory yellow rice is combined with tomatoes, onions, peas, shellfish, squid, clams and chicken drumsticks. These ingredients are cooked in a large saucepan over an open fire with olive oil and salt.
One of the most popular Spanish foods, Fabada Asturiana is a hearty warming stew of beans and sausages, originating in the Principality of Asturias, in northwestern Spain. The traditional recipe requires fabas (locally-grown large white bean), chorizo, morcillo (Spanish blood sausage), smoked paprika and saffron.
Food and drink. Eating out in Spain is relatively cheap. The Spanish tradition of tapas is a good way to sample the local food in Spain. Tapas are small dishes of snacks, which are served anytime especially in small bars. They cover all types of food from seafood to vegetables.