Obstacle Racing is a friendly, sport where camaraderie rules and selfishness isn't tolerated. Helping each other is part of the experience; many opt to do the races as part of a team. Of course, you can race your team-mates but you might need some help at the obstacles. 
Let your child help decide what kinds of obstacles to include as part of his adventure story. If your child can't think of a story, you could base your adventure obstacle course on a favorite book. Adjust the difficulty of the adventure obstacle course to suit your child's age. Think about obstacles that can help improve your child's balance and endurance. Set up the obstacle course using furniture and objects you have in your home. And keep in mind that obstacles don't necessarily have to be objects. This activity is appropriate for 4- to 7-year-olds, with an adult's help. You are making an obstacle course disguised as an adventure story your child can act out. Focusing more on using his imagination and less on the exercise itself may help encourage your child to get moving.
An obstacle course is a series of challenging physical obstacles an individual or team must navigate usually while being timed. Obstacle courses can include running, climbing, jumping, crawling, swimming, and balancing elements with the aim of testing speed and endurance. Sometimes a course involves mental tests. The annual obstacle course race is memorialized by a sculpture by John Boxtel, To Overcome, which was a gift of the class of 1991. Officer Cadets in third year take a physical education courses Obstacle Course and Water Borne Training.
Building a backyard obstacle course is a fun and easy way to help your kids stay active during the summer and promote the development of important physical and mental skills. The best part about making a backyard obstacle course is that it doesn't have to be complicated or expensive. A backyard obstacle course is a great way to disguise vigorous exercise as a fun game. Not only will your kids break a sweat, but they will develop some of the following skills [source: Excelligence Learning ]:
The military/Army obstacle course is used (mostly in recruit training) as a way to familiarize recruits with the kind of tactical movement they will use in combat, as well as for physical training, building teamwork, and evaluating problem solving skills. The annual obstacle course race is memorialized by a sculpture by John Boxtel, To Overcome, which was a gift of the class of 1991. Officer Cadets in third year take a physical education courses Obstacle Course and Water Borne Training.
Spread the obstacle course out as much as possible. Moving around, over, under and through an obstacle course promotes motor planning abilities, physical skills, and movement concepts. Depending on the age of the children, start with 4 to 6 tasks or events that make a simple, yet challenging, course. Before children attempt any obstacle course, ask them to stand shoulder-to-shoulder on the edge of the course and watch as you or a child demonstrate the “how-to’s” of the course (verbally describe directions for each task or event, i.e. “Jump over the pole and into the hoop,” etc.).
Obstacle courses naturally promote speech and language skills. Obstacle courses require children to navigate by going in, out, under, over, on, off, through, next to, to the right/left of, up, down, etc. Depending on what goals you are trying to achieve, you can target nearly anything. 
An obstacle course in your yard (or basement) is sure to shake up a dull day or liven up any birthday party. Running obstacle courses builds kids' cardiovascular health and gross motor skills and helps develop the ability to remember multi-step directions. Designing a course also calls on your child's creativity and problem-solving skills. In short, an obstacle course is a super skill-builder! To get your obstacle course (and child) up and running, help your child decide where to place various obstacles around your yard. Obstacles might include: 1  A twisting jumprope line to walk along. 2  A tunnel to climb through (can be made from boxes open on both ends).