Bolas (from Spanish bola, ball, also known as boleadoras, or Inca ayllo) is a type of throwing weapon made of weights on the ends of interconnected cords, designed to capture animals by entangling their legs.
Traditionally, Inuit have used bolas to hunt birds, fouling the birds in air with the lines of the bola. People of a Feather showed Belcher Island Inuit using bolas to hunt eider ducks on the wing.
The gauchos used to use the bolas as a tool until the beginning of the 20th Century. Nowadays you can see the bolas only in museums or in traditional meetings where the gauchos wear their old clothes and the bolas are just an ornament.
Bolas will deal no damage to an enemy; they only restrain them. The effectiveness of this restraint depends on the target. 1  On another player, Bolas will hold the other player for 15 seconds. 2  If the other player is using Protect or Deflect Missiles, the time is halved.
Ocasionally, each of the weights on a boleadora is called a bola. Using boleadoras (or bolas) is called 'bolear', and what you catch is 'boleado'. I have seen boleadoras of two and three weights. The two weights model was generally used to play, but have seen in museums too. The indians and matreros (outlaws) used the two weights type to break the telegraph lines.
1 These are based on the real world throwing weapon of the same name. 2  Similar to the bolas ability to restrain a target, the real world bolas are designed to entangle an animal's legs. 3  There appears to be a metallic, hexagonal ring holding the bolas, despite that no metal is used in the process of making these.
The planeswalker Nicol Bolas or the Forever Serpent is the most powerful of the five Elder Dragons to have survived the Dragon War. He is considered one of the most powerful planeswalkers of the Multiverse and at 25,000 years old, possibly the oldest being alive.
Bolas are made using items gained from the Jadinko Lair. They can be made from 2 excrescence and a mutated vine, requiring 87 Fletching and giving 50 experience. They require a Ranged level of 76 to use. Even though Fletching is an assistable skill, Bolas cannot be made via the Assist System.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: bolas (Noun). A throwing weapon made of weights on the ends of interconnected cords, designed to capture animals by entangling their legs.