Most people have a misconception that the more piranhas in the tank the more aggressive they will be, this is not true, infact keeping too many piranha together only contributes to their skittishness. For healthy fish stay away from feeders. Piranhas do well with beef heart, shrimp, krill, steak, chicken, smelt, nightcrawlers, squid, fish fillets, pork and other various frozen meats. Make sure the meats do not contain any preservatives because they will destroy your fish's digestive system.
The red-bellied piranha or red piranha (Pygocentrus nattereri) is a species of piranha native to South America, found in the Amazon River Basin, coastal rivers of northeastern Brazil, and the basins of the Paraguay and Parana. Paraná they are omnivorous foragers and feed on, insects, worms crustaceans and. fish The red-bellied piranha is not a migratory species, but does search for conditions conducive to reproduction during seasons of increased rainfall. Red-bellied piranhas are omnivores and primarily foragers. They feed on insects, fish, plants, and organic debris.
Full Definition of PIRANHA. : any of various usually small South American characin fishes (genera Serrasalmus and Pygocentrus) that have very sharp teeth, often appear in schools, and include some that may attack and inflict dangerous wounds upon humans and large animals —called also caribe. See piranha defined for English-language learners. Definition of PIRANHA for Kids. : a small South American freshwater fish that has very sharp teeth, often occurs in groups, and may attack human beings and animals in the water.
Piranhas are known for their razor-sharp teeth and relentless bite. (The word piranha literally translates to “ tooth fish ” in the Brazilian language Tupi.) Tupí adults have a single row of interlocking teeth lining the. jaw 7. Some piranhas are cannibals. A typical piranha diet consists of insects, fish, crustaceans, worms, carrion, seeds and other plant material. A red-bellied piranha (Pygocentrus nattereri), for example, eats about 2.46 grams per day —about one-eighth of its average body mass.
Piranhas. The dreams in which the piranhas have a leading role often identify a problem that is literally eating you up inside. For some reason did not want to share with others and will have increasingly more concerned. If that while piranhas attack you your maths is a very good omen that interprets how you’ve managed to overcome adversity. In other cases, the fact that someone piranhas eat your environment can also mean that the person is hiding something that is very embarrassing for her and could damage your image. How in the other cases, also refers to something that person is kept to herself, a problem repress
A piranha or pirana piraña is a member of Family characidae in Order, characiformes an omnivorous freshwater fish that Inhabits South american. Rivers In, venezuela they are called. Caribes they are known for their sharp teeth and a voracious appetite for. meat Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: piranha (Noun). Any of the carnivorous freshwater fish living in South American rivers and belonging to the families of Serrasalmus and Pygocentrus. Origin: First attested 1869.
The name piranha may come from a hybrid language composed of Tupi-Guarani languages; it may be a compound word made of the components 'pira', pirá 'meaning', fish 'and' sanha 'or', ranha 'meaning'. tooth Best Answer: hahaha.. in this case, 'piranha' is slang for 'tramp/hooker', a very promiscuous woman vai piranha vai!