From 2000 to 2010, the Albuquerque metro area increased 21.6 percent adding 157,428 residents. The City of Rio Rancho, located northwest of Albuquerque in Sandoval County, is the fastest growing city in New Mexico with a population of 94,030 increasing by 65 percent from 2000-2010. Educational Attainment. On a per capita basis, the Albuquerque metro ranks among the top 25 largest metros in the nation for cities with the most college graduates. The Albuquerque area is home to over 0,000 enrolled college students and 29 percent of the metro population has a bachelor’s degree or higher.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Albuquerque Metropolitan Statistical Area is a metropolitan area in central New Mexico centered on the city of Albuquerque that covers four counties-Bernalillo, Sandoval, Torrance, and Valencia. As of the 2010 census, the MSA had a population of 887,077. It is estimated to be 904,587, through 2014. The Albuquerque MSA forms a part of the larger Albuquerque – Santa Fe – Las Vegas combined statistical area.
Albuquerque, located at the crossroads of the state’s travel routes, is the largest city in New Mexico. Clear, sunny, dry days; an attractive mountain landscape; and a mostly healthy economy attract new residents from around the country. The Albuquerque metro area is largely situated in the Rio Grande Valley and on the mesas and piedmont slopes rising on either side of the valley floor.
The Albuquerque MSA population includes the city of Rio Rancho, Bernalillo, Placitas, Corrales, Los Lunas, Belen, Bosque Farms, and forms part of the larger Albuquerque – Santa Fe – Las Vegas combined statistical area, with a total population of 1,163,964 as of the July 1, 2013 Census Bureau estimates. Albuquerque has expanded greatly in area since the mid-1940s. During those years of expansion, the planning of the newer areas has considered that people drive rather than walk. The pre-1940s parts of Albuquerque are quite different in style and scale from the post 1940s areas.
Rio Rancho – located just northwest of Albuquerque, Rio Rancho offers great views of the mountains and the City of Albuquerque. Many new homes in all price ranges can be found in this quickly growing area. Moriarty-this area is located just 40 miles east of Albuquerque and the Sandia Mountains along I-40. Moriarty offers exceptional value for those interested in having a large lot for a stable or perhaps farming and ranching. Los Lunas-this community is situated 25 miles south of Albuquerque along I-25. Nob Hill – located along historic Route 66 (Central Ave) near the University of New Mexico, this vibrant area boasts lively eateries and local shops. Nob Hill is a progressive blend of fashion and modern tastes with most amenities located within walking distance.
Albuquerque is home to the University of New Mexico (UNM), Kirtland Air Force Base, Sandia National Laboratories, Lovelace Respiratory Research Institute, Central New Mexico Community College (CNM), Presbyterian Health Services, and Petroglyph National Monument. Albuquerque has expanded greatly in area since the mid-1940s. During those years of expansion, the planning of the newer areas has considered that people drive rather than walk. The pre-1940s parts of Albuquerque are quite different in style and scale from the post 1940s areas.
Heart of New Mexico. New Mexico's Central Region is the Heart of New Mexico.. In almost the geographic middle of the state sits Albuquerque, our largest city and only metropolitan area. 
Set in the heart of the state, Albuquerque is New Mexico’s biggest city, and gateway to this striking region along the Rio Río. Grande here’you ll find Abundant native, culture a lively entertainment, scene filmmaking, hotspots, dining, shopping and the’world s largest balloon. fiesta Set in the heart of the state, Albuquerque is New Mexico’s biggest city, and gateway to this striking region along the Rio Río. Grande here’you ll find Abundant native, culture a lively entertainment, scene filmmaking, hotspots, dining, shopping and the’world s largest balloon. Fiesta Central Regional Bucket. list
1 The top priority of the Greater Albuquerque Medical Association (GAMA) is to make the greater Albuquerque area a better place to practice medicine and to receive care. 2  Committed to patient safety and quality care for every patient. 3  Dedicated to best practices through advocacy, education and professional exchanges. 