Although sexual reproduction is common in plants, most also reproduce asexually through what is commonly called vegetative propagation. There are a number of plant tissues capable of this process, for example rhizomes (potato), runners (strawberry), stem pieces (willow), and seed (dandelion). Vegetative reproduction is a type of asexual reproduction without seeds or spores, and it occurs in plants. Runners or stolons is used for natural vegetative reproduction. Strawberries, grasses and some ferns are examples of runners or stolons. The strawberries and the grasses spread stem stems horizontally everywhere.
Vegetative propagation in plants allows for the creation of new plants from only one individual. This form of asexual reproduction occurs in plants. Some plants will use both asexual and sexual reproduction. We looked at a few common examples of vegetative propagation. Asexual reproduction only requires-and only allows for-one parent. Most of the time, we think of two parents-a male and a female-making an offspring. However, asexual reproduction only uses one parent. In plants, asexual reproduction is called
Vegetative reproduction. is a form of asexual reproduction in plants. It does not involve flowers, pollination and seed production. Instead, a new plant grows from a vegetative part, usually a stem, of the parent plant. However, plants which reproduce asexually almost always reproduce sexually as well, bearing flowers, fruits and seeds.
Rhizomes, tubers, bulbs and corms are actually underground stems, not roots. These underground stems are storage containers for the plant. Rhizomes are stems that grow horizontally, but rhizomes grow underground and generally have a thickened stem that is used for storage. Rhizomes have eyes or buds that appear along the top and sides, which grow upward to produce new stems and foliage.
Plant propagation is the process of increasing the number of plants of a particular species or cultivar. Propagation can be via sexual or asexual means. Over the years, horticulturalists have developed asexual propagation methods that use vegetative plant parts. Asexual plant propagation methods produce new plants from vegetative parts of the original plant, such as the leaves, stems and roots. These methods are generally referred to as vegetative propagation.
One type of asexual reproduction that occurs often in plants is by the. which are underground horizontal stems of the plant. (3,4) The Rhizomes consists of many key parts to their structure including nodes, antinodes, scale leaves, axillary buds as well as adventituous roots, which provide it support. 
Reproduction is a basic property of all life. Plants reproduce several ways, and humans have taken advantage of natural reproductive systems to increase the number of plants for human use. There are two major types of reproductive methods: a) Sexual and b) asexual reproduction. Major Methods of Vegetative Propagation. Stems, roots, and leaves are used for cloning plants. The following are some of the major ways that plants are cloned in addition to bulbs which were discussed in the preceding section. Many plants can be cloned with cuttings.
Vegetative reproduction (vegetative propagation, vegetative multiplication, vegetative cloning) is a form of asexual reproduction in plants. It is a process by which new organisms arise without production of seeds or spores. It can occur naturally or be induced by horticulturists. 
The plant uses the rhizome to store starches, proteins, and other nutrients. These nutrients become useful for the plant when new shoots must be formed or when the plant dies back for the winter. This is a process known as vegetative reproduction and is used by farmers and gardeners to propagate certain plants. A stem tuber is a thickened part of a rhizome or stolon that has been enlarged for use as a storage organ. In general, a tuber is high in starch, for example, the common potato, which is a modified stolon. The term tuber is often used imprecisely, and is sometimes applied to plants with rhizomes.
Vegetative Structures. Asexual reproduction, the vegetative reproduction, is forming a new individual plant from a single parent plant. Many parts of plant are used for the asexual reproduction, but a stem is a common organ for the asexual reproduction. Runners or stolons is used for natural vegetative reproduction. Strawberries, grasses and some ferns are examples of runners or stolons. The strawberries and the grasses spread stem stems horizontally everywhere.