Cervical Spondylomyelopathy in Dogs. Cervical spondylomyelopathy (CSM), or wobbler syndrome, is a disease of the cervical spine (at the neck) that is commonly seen in large and giant-breed dogs. CSM is characterized by compression of the spinal cord and/or nerve roots, which leads to neurological signs and/or neck pain. The term wobbler syndrome is used to describe the characteristic wobbly gait (walk) that affected dogs have. Intervertebral disk slippage and/or bony malformation in a narrowed vertebral canal (the bony canal surrounding the soft spinal cord) can cause spinal compression.
Story at-a-glance 1  +. Wobbler syndrome is a disease in which the spinal cord and nerve roots are compressed in the area of the neck. 2  Wobbler’s is commonly seen in large and giant breed dogs, in particular Dobermans and Great Danes. Wobbler syndrome is a very common cause of neurologic problems in large and giant breed dogs. Most people just call the condition Wobbler's, but medical terms used to describe it include spondylomyelopathy, cervical vertebral instability, cervical vertebral malformation, and cervical spondylopathy.
Cervical Spondylomyelopathy, also known as wobbler syndrome, is a neurological condition in dogs that affects their cervical spine, or neck region. A compression of the spinal cord and nerve roots, wobbler syndrome gets its name from the characteristic “wobbly” walk that affected dogs typically display from the disease. 
ADVERTISEMENT. Cervical spondylomyelopathy (CSM), or wobbler syndrome, is a disease of the cervical spine (at the neck) that is commonly seen in large and giant-breed dogs. CSM is characterized by compression of the spinal cord and/or nerve roots, which leads to neurological signs and/or neck pain. The term wobbler syndrome is used to describe the characteristic wobbly gait (walk) that affected dogs have. Intervertebral disk slippage and/or bony malformation in a narrowed vertebral canal (the bony canal surrounding the soft spinal cord) can cause spinal compression.
Cervical Spondylomyelopathy, also known as wobbler syndrome, is a neurological condition in dogs that affects their cervical spine, or neck region. A compression of the spinal cord and nerve roots, wobbler syndrome gets its name from the characteristic “wobbly” walk that affected dogs typically display from the disease. 
Disc associated “wobbler syndrome” is a devastating disease of the cervical vertebrae and inter-vertebral discs resulting in cervical canal narrowing and spinal cord compression, which leads to a wobbly gait/walk in dogs and horses (hence the name wobbler syndrome). 
Listen as Dr. Karen Becker discusses Wobbler syndrome – a serious neurologic disease prevalent in large and giant breed dogs. By Dr. Becker Wobbler syndrome is a disease of the cervical spine in the area of the neck, in which the spinal cord and spinal cord nerve roots are compressed. This compression leads to neck pain and neurological problems like the wobbly walk dogs with the syndrome exhibit. Wobbler syndrome is a very common cause of neurologic problems in large and giant breed dogs. Most people just call the condition Wobbler's, but medical terms used to describe it include spondylomyelopathy, cervical vertebral instability, cervical vertebral malformation, and cervical spondylopathy.
What is Wobbler Syndrome? Wobbler syndrome is a term used to describe disorders involving compression of the cervical spinal cord (the portion of the spinal cord located in the neck) in large-and giant-breed dogs. Another name for wobbler syndrome is cervical vertebral instability.. What causes Wobbler Syndrome? The causes of wobbler syndrome include cervical intervertebral disk disease, abnormalities of the cervical vertebrae, and malformation of the cervical vertebrae due to poor nutrition.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Wobbler disease is a catchall term referring to several possible malformations of the cervical vertebrae that cause an unsteady (wobbly) gait and weakness in dogs and horses. A number of different conditions of the cervical (neck) spinal column cause similar clinical signs. Wobbler disease is also known as cervical vertebral instability, cervical spondylomyelopathy (CSM), and cervical vertebral malformation (CVM). In dogs, the disease is most common in large breeds, especially Great Danes and Doberman Pinschers.