The Sciatic Nerve. The sciatic nerve actually originates from several nerve “roots” along the spine collectively known as the lumbosacral plexus. This means it is made up of several spinal nerves whose roots come out from the spine from L4 through S3. These spinal nerves come together to form the sciatic nerve, which is the largest nerve in the body. From the lower back, the sciatic nerve follows the back of each thigh down to each foot. It connects the spine directly to the muscles in the feet and legs. This one very important nerve is responsible for delivering nerve signals to most of the lower half of the body. 
The sciatic nerve is the largest and longest spinal nerve in the human body. Extending from the lumbar and sacral plexuses in the lower back, the sciatic nerve runs through the buttocks and into the thighs. It delivers nerve signals to and from the muscles and skin of the thighs, lower legs and feet. 
Pain caused by a compression or irritation of the sciatic nerve by a problem in the lower back is called sciatica. Common causes of sciatica include the following lower back and hip conditions: spinal disc herniation, degenerative disc disease, lumbar spinal stenosis, spondylolisthesis, and piriformis syndrome. The sciatic nerve is formed from the L4 to S3 segments of the sacral plexus, a collection of nerve fibres that emerge from the sacral part of the spinal cord.
Sciatic nerve. The sciatic supplies nearly the whole of the skin of the leg, the muscles of the back of the thigh, and those of the leg and foot. It is the largest nerve in the body, measuring 2 cm in breadth, and is also the continuation of the flattened back of the sacral plexus. The sacral plexus is derived from the anterior rami of spinal nerves L4, L5, S1, S2, S3, and S4. Each of these anterior rami gives rise to anterior and posterior branches. The anterior branches supply flexor muscles of the lower limb, and posterior branches supply the extensor and abductor muscles.
The sciatic nerve arises from the sacral plexus from the roots of L4-S3 and runs through the buttock and down the lower limb. It is the longest and widest single nerve in the body. 1  origin: sacral plexus (L4-S3). 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In human anatomy, the sacral plexus is a nerve plexus which provides motor and sensory nerves for the posterior thigh, most of the lower leg and foot, and part of the pelvis. It is part of the lumbosacral plexus and emerges from the lumbar vertebrae and sacral vertebrae (L4-S4). The nerves forming the sacral plexus converge toward the lower part of the greater sciatic foramen, and unite to form a flattened band, from the anterior and posterior surfaces of which several branches arise.
It is the longest and widest single nerve in the human body, going from the top of the leg to the foot on the posterior aspect. The sciatic nerve provides the connection to the nervous system for nearly the whole of the skin of the leg, the muscles of the back of the thigh, and those of the leg and foot. It is derived from spinal nerves L4 to S3. The sciatic nerve is formed from the L4 to S3 segments of the sacral plexus, a collection of nerve fibres that emerge from the sacral part of the spinal cord.
The sciatic nerve (/saɪˈaetɪk/ ; saɪˈætɪk also called ischiadic, nerve ischiatic) nerve is a large nerve in humans and other. Animals it begins in the lower back and runs through the buttock and down the lower. limb The sciatic nerve is formed from the L4 to S3 segments of the sacral plexus, a collection of nerve fibres that emerge from the sacral part of the spinal cord.