The term species has its origins in the ancient Latin language. In this language, the word species means kind. A more technical definition of species is a group of interbreeding organisms that do not ordinarily breed with members of other groups. Biologists estimate that about 10 to 40 million different species inhabit the Earth. Of these species, approximately 1.5 million have been classified
Biological Species Concept. The biological species concept defines a species as members of populations that actually or potentially interbreed in nature, not according to similarity of appearance. Although appearance is helpful in identifying species, it does not define species. The biological species concept defines a species as members of populations that actually or potentially interbreed in nature, not according to similarity of appearance
n. pl. species. 1. Biology A group of closely related organisms that are very similar to each other and are usually capable of interbreeding and producing fertile offspring. The species is the fundamental category of taxonomic classification, ranking below a genus or subgenus. 
The bacterium shown at right is reproducing asexually, by binary fission. The definition of a species as a group of interbreeding individuals cannot be easily applied to organisms that reproduce only or mainly asexually. Also, many plants, and some animals, form hybrids in nature. 
Species Concepts and the Definition of Species. 1) Biological species concept: Species are groups of actually or potentially interbreeding natural populations, which are reproductively isolated from other such groups (Mayr, 1940).
spe·cies. n. pl. species. 1. Biology A group of closely related organisms that are very similar to each other and are usually capable of interbreeding and producing fertile offspring. The species is the fundamental category of taxonomic classification, ranking below a genus or subgenus. 
The biological species concept is the most widely accepted species concept. It defines species in terms of interbreeding. For instance, Ernst Mayr defined a species as follows: species are groups of interbreeding natural populations that are reproductively isolated from other such groups.. The biological species concept explains why the members of a species resemble one another, i.e. form phenetic clusters, and differ from other species. 
A species is often defined as the largest group of organisms where two hybrids are capable of reproducing fertile offspring, typically using sexual reproduction. While in many cases this definition is adequate, the difficulty of defining species is known as the species problem. In biology, a species (abbreviated sp. , with the plural form species abbreviated spp. ) is one of the basic units of biological classification and a taxonomic rank.