In biology, a phylum (/ˈfaɪləm/ ; plural: phyla) is a taxonomic rank below kingdom and above class. Traditionally, in botany the term division was used instead of phylum, although from 1993 the International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, and plants accepted the designation phylum. The kingdom Animalia contains approximately 35 phyla, Plantae contains 12, and Fungi contains 7. A definition of a phylum based on body plan has been proposed by paleontologists Graham Budd and Soeren Sören (jensen As haeckel had done a century). earlier
subphylum - (biology) a taxonomic group ranking between a phylum and a class. class - (biology) a taxonomic group containing one or more orders. division - (botany) taxonomic unit of plants corresponding to a phylum. Translations. 2. phylum - (biology) the major taxonomic group of animals and plants; contains classes. phylum Pyrrophyta, Pyrrophyta-a division of lower plants comprising unicellular and biflagellate algae that form starchy compounds.
noun. The definition of a phylum is a major category of living organisms, or a group of genetically related language families. 1  An example of a phylum is Mollusca which means an invertebrate animal such as an octopus. 1 An example of a phylum is Mollusca which means an invertebrate animal such as an octopus. 2  An example of a phylum is the group of Indo-European languages spoken in Europe, Asia, North America, South America and Oceania.
Full Definition of PHYLUM. 1. a: a direct line of descent within a group b: a group that constitutes or has the unity of a phylum; specifically: a primary category in biological taxonomy especially of animals that ranks above the class and below the kingdom — compare division 10. 2
The word phylum (plural: phyla) is a category used to classify marine organisms. In this article, you can learn the definition of phylum, how it is used, and examples of phyla used to categorize marine life. 
Aside from Chordata, other well known phyla are the Mollusca, Porifera, Cnidaria, Platyhelminthes, Nematoda, Annelida, Arthropoda and Echinodermata, which all belong to Kingdom Animalia. Word origin: New Latin ph[ymacr]lum, from Greek phūlon, class. Compare: division. See also: taxonomy. 
1. Biology A taxonomic category of organisms ranking below a kingdom and above a class. In the classification of plants, division often replaces phylum. 2. Linguistics A large division of possibly genetically related families of languages or linguistic stocks. 2. phylum - (biology) the major taxonomic group of animals and plants; contains classes. phylum Pyrrophyta, Pyrrophyta-a division of lower plants comprising unicellular and biflagellate algae that form starchy compounds.
Definition of PHYLUM for Kids. : a group of related living things (as animals or plants) that ranks above the class and below the kingdom in scientific classification. a: a direct line of descent within a group b: a group that constitutes or has the unity of a phylum; specifically: a primary category in biological taxonomy especially of animals that ranks above the class and below the kingdom — compare division 10.
Top 10 facts about the world. In biology, a phylum is a division of organism (taxonomic rank) below kingdom (such as Animalia) and above class (such as Mammalia). 