The brain is the most complex organ in the body. It is the organ that allows us to think, have emotions, move, and even dream. Given this complexity, it should not be surprising that there are many ways to separate the parts of the brain. 
About 90% of all the brain s neurons are located in the cerebral cortex, mainly in the grey matter , which makes up the surface regions of the cerebral cortex, while the inner white matter consists mainly of myelinated axons, over 170,000 km of them. The cerebrum (or forebrain), which makes up 75% of the brain by volume and 85% by weight, is divided by a large groove, known as the longitudinal fissure, into two distinct hemispheres.
Different areas of the brain are involved in memory depending on the type of memory. 1  Short-term memory, also called working memory, occurs in the prefrontal cortex. 2  It stores information for about one minute and its capacity is limited to about 7 items. The brain is composed of three parts: the brainstem, cerebellum, and cerebrum. The cerebrum is divided into four lobes: frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipital. 1  The cerebrum is the largest part of the brain and is composed of right and left hemispheres. It performs higher functions like interpreting touch, vision and hearing, as well as speech, reasoning, emotions, learning, and fine control of movement. The cerebellum is located under the cerebrum
Memory Retrieval. Brain Image Gallery. Brain Image Gallery. Human memory is a complex, brain-wide process that is essential to who we are. Learn about encoding, the brain, and short-and long-term memory. See more brain pictures. Publications International, Ltd. Learn More. 1  Can a person remember being born? 
Cerebrum. The cerebrum (supratentorial or front of brain) is composed of the right and left hemispheres. Functions of the cerebrum include: initiation of movement, coordination of movement, temperature, touch, vision, hearing, judgment, reasoning, problem solving, emotions, and learning. Brainstem. Occipital lobe. The occipital lobe is the back part of the brain that is involved with vision. Temporal lobe. The sides of the brain, these temporal lobes are involved in memory, speech, musical rhythm, and some degree of smell recognition.
Humans and other mammals have two hippocampi, one in each side of the brain. It belongs to the limbic system and plays important roles in the consolidation of information from short-term memory to long-term memory and spatial navigation. In Alzheimer's disease, the hippocampus is one of the first regions of the brain to suffer damage; memory loss and disorientation are included among the early symptoms. Damage to the hippocampus can also result from oxygen starvation (hypoxia), encephalitis, or medial temporal lobe epilepsy.
Short term memory is found in the frontal lobes and the parietal lobes of the brain. The hippocampus is necessary in forming long term memory but not in the storage of it. 
Deep inside the medial temporal lobe is the region of the brain known as the limbic system, which includes the hippocampus, the amygdala, the cingulate gyrus, the thalamus, the hypothalamus, the epithalamus, the mammillary body and other organs, many of which are of particular relevance to the processing of memory. The cerebrum (or forebrain), which makes up 75% of the brain by volume and 85% by weight, is divided by a large groove, known as the longitudinal fissure, into two distinct hemispheres.
In all vertebrates and most invertebrates, the brain is the centre of the nervous system. It allows them to collect information (sensory system), act on that information (motor system) and store the result for future reference (memory), thus effectively making life possible. The human brain is perhaps the most complex living structure known in the universe.