1 If you’ve both been talking about going to Paris together for the last seven years and you have the funds for it, it’s time to make your dreams a reality. 2  Take a short day trip. 3  Even driving an hour out to spend a day in the woods or the beach can make your relationship feel fresher. 4  Take a second honeymoon. Though your schedules may get crazy, you need to make a concerted effort to talk to each other every day, no matter how much work you have to do. You can set aside time to talk during dinner, or to talk over the phone if your loved one is away. 1  Make a habit of knowing what your loved one’s day was like.
He told me that I was what made him happy in the relationship but he was not getting this point. If you look to your partner for your happiness then when they do or don’t do something, you get overly hurt by their actions which caused the fight that broke us up. He cried for 6 weeks trying to get me back, then as soon as he met another woman he dove right into a relationship with her. Oh my stars! Thank you.
If you get your partner’s heart rate up, he may associate the feeling of excitement with you and he may develop more powerful feelings for you. Going on a roller-coaster ride, taking a balloon trip, shooting the rapids—anything with a touch of danger to it—can make him fall more deeply in love with you. 8. 3. Engage in lots of eye gazing. New couples seem to do this naturally, but don’t drop this strong bonding behavior just because the relationship has progressed. This is one way to keep the romance alive and is especially powerful when making love. 4. Learn what pleases your partner sexually.
1 When you’re making a decision, have your loved one rate how important it is to him on a scale of 1 to 10, and then state how important it is to you. 2  Then talk about why it’s so important to both of you, and what you can do to make it matter less. 3  Be thoughtful. Though your schedules may get crazy, you need to make a concerted effort to talk to each other every day, no matter how much work you have to do. You can set aside time to talk during dinner, or to talk over the phone if your loved one is away. 1  Make a habit of knowing what your loved one’s day was like.
Learn to compromise. In any strong relationship, being happy should be more important than being right. If you want your relationship to last, then you should learn how to make decisions with your loved one, and to find a way for both of you to be happy with the decisions, or to take turns giving in to each other. Though your schedules may get crazy, you need to make a concerted effort to talk to each other every day, no matter how much work you have to do. You can set aside time to talk during dinner, or to talk over the phone if your loved one is away. 1  Make a habit of knowing what your loved one’s day was like.
8. Do something great for someone your partner loves. If you show kindness and love for someone he loves, you will earn major points. When you enter a relationship, you also enter a relationship with all his family and friends. Show him that the people who are important to him are important to you. 3. Engage in lots of eye gazing. New couples seem to do this naturally, but don’t drop this strong bonding behavior just because the relationship has progressed. This is one way to keep the romance alive and is especially powerful when making love. 4. Learn what pleases your partner sexually.
Memory circuits and pleasure get all wound up together so that the other person becomes integral to the very structure of your brain, and you become part of the structure of his. Here are some steps toward making your love last: 1. Take your partner's breath away. Do something amazingly thoughtful and out of the ordinary and try to incorporate an element of surprise to it: a loving note tucked into a pocket. 3. Engage in lots of eye gazing. New couples seem to do this naturally, but don’t drop this strong bonding behavior just because the relationship has progressed. This is one way to keep the romance alive and is especially powerful when making love. 4. Learn what pleases your partner sexually.
To make love last, you have to appreciate your loved one, support your loved one, and make time for love and romance. If you want to know how to do it, follow these steps. 3. Manage the perpetual problems in the relationship. Even the best relationships have their problems, and not all of these problems can be resolved. To make your love last, you should accept the problems or find a way to manage them instead of constantly fighting over them to no avail.
Most of us want to meet and settle down with the “right” person, and most of us want such a relationship to last. Yet 53% of marriages in the U.S., 48% in Canada, 47% in the U.K., and 43% in Australia end in divorce. What are some of the most important ideas when it comes to making your love last? 