Budesonide, the active component of PULMICORT RESPULES® (budesonide inhalation suspension) , is a corticosteroid designated chemically as (RS)-11β, 16α, 17, 21-tetrahydroxypregna-1, 4-diene-3, 20dione cyclic 16, 17-acetal with butyraldehyde. Budesonide is provided as a mixture of two epimers (22R and 22S). Budesonide is a white to off-white, tasteless, odorless powder that is practically insoluble in water and in heptane, sparingly soluble in ethanol, and freely soluble in chloroform. Its partition coefficient between octanol and water at pH 7.4 is 1.6 x 10 3.
Budesonide is used to help prevent the symptoms of asthma. When used regularly every day, inhaled budesonide decreases the number and severity of asthma attacks. However, it will not relieve an asthma attack that has already started. Budesonide is a corticosteroid or steroid (cortisone-like medicine). It is breathed in with a special inhaler device that comes with the medicine. The powder is stored inside this inhaler. Before each use, you will turn the brown grip at the bottom of the inhaler to load a new dose of the powder into the air chamber. Do not use a spacer with the Pulmicort Flexhaler™.
Pulmicort Respules contain the potent, non-halogenated, corticosteroid, budesonide, for use in bronchial asthma, in patients where use of a pressurised inhaler or dry powder formulation is unsatisfactory or inappropriate. 
1 Pulmicort Respules™(budesonide inhalation suspension)0.25 mg and 0.5 mg Rx only For inhalation use via compressed air driven jet nebulizers only (not for use with ultrasonicdevices). Not for injection. Read patient instructions before using. 
Budesonide is the generic name of a prescription drug sold under the brand names Entocort EC, Uceris, Pulmicort, Pulmicort Flexhaler, Pulmicort Respules, and Rhinocort. It's also one of the drugs found in the inhaler Symbicort, used to treat COPD and asthma. Budesonide was approved in 1994 by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) under the brand name Rhinocort, and was manufactured by AstraZeneca.
Budesonide is used to help prevent the symptoms of asthma. When used regularly every day, inhaled budesonide decreases the number and severity of asthma attacks. However, it will not relieve an asthma attack that has already started. Inhaled budesonide may be used with other asthma medicines such as bronchodilators, which are also used to open up narrowed breathing passages in the lungs. This medicine is available only with your doctor's prescription. This product is available in the following dosage forms: 1  Suspension. 2  Powder. 3  Solution.
Budesonide is a steroid. It prevents the release of substances in the body that cause inflammation. Budesonide inhalation is used to prevent asthma attacks. It will not treat an asthma attack that has already begun. Budesonide may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide.
Budesonide is a glucocorticoid steroid used in inhaled formulations for the treatment of asthma, COPD and non-infectious rhinitis (including hay fever and other allergies), and for treatment and prevention of nasal polyposis. Budesonide is contraindicated as a primary treatment of status asthmaticus or other acute episode of asthma where intensive measures are required. It is also contraindicated for patients who have hypersensitivity to budesonide.
Drug information provided by: Micromedex. Inhaled budesonide is used to prevent asthma attacks. It is not used to stop an attack that has already started. For relief of an asthma attack that has already started, you or your child should use another medicine.