DRUG DESCRIPTION. FOSAMAX (alendronate sodium) is a bisphosphonate that acts as a specific inhibitor of osteoclastmediated bone resorption. Bisphosphonates are synthetic analogs of pyrophosphate that bind to the hydroxyapatite found in bone. Stop using alendronate and call your doctor at once if you have a serious side effect such as: 1  chest pain; 2  difficulty or pain when swallowing; 3  pain or burning under the ribs or in the back; 4  severe heartburn, burning pain in your upper stomach, or coughing up blood;
It alters the cycle of bone formation and breakdown in the body. Alendronate slows bone loss while increasing bone mass, which may prevent bone fractures. Alendronate is used in men and women to treat or prevent osteoporosis that is caused by menopause or by taking steroids. Alendronate is also used to increase bone mass in men who have osteoporosis, and to treat Paget's disease of bone in men and women. Alendronate may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
The empirical formula of alendronate sodium is C 4 H 12 NNaO 7 P 2 •3H 2 O and its formula weight is 325.12. The structural formula is: Alendronate sodium is a white, crystalline, nonhygroscopic powder. It is soluble in water, very slightly soluble in alcohol, and practically insoluble in chloroform. Stop using alendronate and call your doctor at once if you have a serious side effect such as: 1  chest pain; 2  difficulty or pain when swallowing; 3  pain or burning under the ribs or in the back; 4  severe heartburn, burning pain in your upper stomach, or coughing up blood;
Alendronic acid (INN) or alendronate sodium (USAN) — sold as Fosamax by Merck — is a bisphosphonate drug used for osteoporosis and several other bone diseases. It is marketed alone as well as in combination with vitamin D (2,800 IU and 5,600 IU, under the name Fosamax+D). Merck's U.S. patent on alendronate expired in 2008 and the drug is now available as a generic.
Fosamax (alendronate sodium) is a member of a medicine group called bisphosphonates. These drugs work to alter the cycle through which bone is formed and broken down within the body. Fosamax is made to slow a patient’s bone loss while simultaneously increasing the bone mass. Fosamax users have experienced severe side effects, including esophageal cancer, osteonecrosis of the jaw, and unusual bone fractures. It is also alleged that thousands of patients taking Fosamax do not actually face serious bone conditions, but are encouraged to use the drug as a preventative treatment.
Alendronate Sandoz is used to treat osteoporosis including osteoporosis caused by a group of medicines known as corticosteroids. This condition is caused by changes in the way bone is normally maintained. In osteoporosis, it works by slowing down the process of old bone being removed, which allows the bone-forming cells time to rebuild normal bone. Alendronate Sandoz not only helps prevent the loss of bone but actually helps to rebuild bone and makes bone less likely to fracture.
Get emergency medical help if you have any of these signs of an allergic reaction: hives; difficulty breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or throat. Stop using alendronate and call your doctor at once if you have a serious side effect such as: 1  chest pain; 2  difficulty or pain when swallowing; 3  pain or burning under the ribs or in the back; 4  severe heartburn, burning pain in your upper stomach, or coughing up blood;
PRESCRIBED FOR: Alendronate is used for treating osteoporosis in men and postmenopausal women. It also is used for Paget's disease of bone and osteoporosis caused by steroid treatment. Non-FDA approved (off-label) uses include vitamin D overdose and osteoporosis caused by spinal injury. 
Alendronate is used to prevent and treat osteoporosis (thinning of the bone) in women after menopause. This medicine may also be used to increase bone mass in men who have osteoporosis, and in men and women to prevent and treat osteoporosis caused by long-term use of corticosteroids (cortisone-like medicine). Do not use it if you had an allergic reaction to alendronate, you have esophagus problems, trouble swallowing, or hypocalcemia, or you cannot stand or sit upright for at least 30 minutes after you take the medicine.
Alendronate Sandoz contains the active ingredient alendronate sodium and belongs to a group of non-hormonal medicines called bisphosphonates. There is no evidence that this medicine is addictive. Ask your doctor if you have any questions about why this medicine has been prescribed for you. In osteoporosis, it works by slowing down the process of old bone being removed, which allows the bone-forming cells time to rebuild normal bone. Alendronate Sandoz not only helps prevent the loss of bone but actually helps to rebuild bone and makes bone less likely to fracture.