Pomegranate is native to a region from Iran to northern India. Pomegranates have been cultivated throughout the Middle East, South Asia, and Mediterranean region for several millennia, and also thrive in the drier climates of California and Arizona.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Pomegranates are typically found in California within the USA, but originally come from the Middle East and Asia. They prefer a warm Mediterranean climate and can grow up to 30 feet high, but are normally around 16 feet.
Soil: The pomegranate does best in well-drained ordinary soil, but also thrives on calcareous or acidic loam as well as rock strewn gravel. Irrigation: Once established, pomegranates can take considerable drought, but for good fruit production they must be irrigated.
Origin: The pomegranate is native from Iran to the Himalayas in northern India and was cultivated and naturalized over the whole Mediterranean region since ancient times. It is widely cultivated throughout India and the drier parts of southeast Asia, Malaya, the East Indies and tropical Africa.
The Pomegranate (Punica granatum) is a fruit-bearing deciduous shrub or small tree growing to 5–8 m tall. The pomegranate is native from Iran to the Himalayas in northern India and was cultivated and naturalized over the whole Mediterranean region including Armenia since ancient times.
Choose a variety of pomegranate. Punica granatum is a small deciduous tree. It will grow to about 2.5 metres (8.2 feet) tall, with orange flowers during the summer season. The dwarf variety Nana will grow shorter, to about 1 metre (3.2 feet) and are the best for growing in containers.
The pomegranate (Punica granatum) is a naturally dense, deciduous, bushy, multi-stemmed shrub that typically grows to heights of 10 to 12 feet and bears highly colored fruit with many juicy seeds inside. In some regions, pomegranates are trained into small trees with a single trunk.
So, just where do Pomegranates come from? The Pomegranate Tree is a compact, shrub-like tree that can grow to 30 feet tall, though most typically tops out at between 12 and 16 feet. Native to the Mediterranean region since ancient times, Pomegranates prefer semi-arid temperatures and naturally adapt to regions with cool winters and hot summers.