1. the organic process of bearing flowers. 2. reproductive organ of angiosperm plants especially one having showy or colorful parts. 3. the best time of youth. 4. a rosy color (especially in the cheeks) taken as a sign of good health. 5. the period of greatest prosperity or productivity. 6. a powdery deposit on a surface. Familiarity information: BLOOM used as a noun is common.
Click on a circle in the chart to view Bloom birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more.
A flower, sometimes known as a bloom or blossom, is the reproductive structure found in flowering plants (plants of the division Magnoliophyta, also called angiosperms). The biological function of a flower is to effect reproduction, usually by providing a mechanism for the union of sperm with eggs. Some of the more common examples include: 1  Red roses are given as a symbol of love, beauty, and passion. 2  Poppies are a symbol of consolation in time of death. 3  Irises / Lily are used in burials as a symbol referring to resurrection/life. 4  Daisies are a symbol of innocence.
Pega. OEM (original equipment manufacturer) is a broad term whose meaning has evolved over time. In the past, OEM referred to the company that originally built a given product, which was then sold to other companies to rebrand and resell. Over time, however, the term is more frequently used to describe those companies in the business of rebranding a manufacturer's products and selling them to end customers.
Bloom Name Meaning. Jewish (American): Americanized spelling of Blum.Americanized spelling of Dutch Bloem.Swedish: variant of Blom.English: metonymic occupational name for an iron worker, from Middle English blome ‘ingot (of iron)’. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more.
Click on a circle in the chart to view Bloem birth and death records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. You can find out when most of the Bloem families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination.
Click on a circle in the chart to view Bloem immigration records. You can find out when most of the Bloem families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination.
Hypernyms (bloom is a kind of...): period; period of time; time period (an amount of time). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of bloom): golden age (a time period when some activity or skill was at its peak). 4. a rosy color (especially in the cheeks) taken as a sign of good health. 5. the period of greatest prosperity or productivity. 6. a powdery deposit on a surface. Familiarity information: BLOOM used as a noun is common.
Click on a place to view Bloem immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Bloem families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. You can find out when most of the Bloem families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination.
Holonyms (Bloemfontein is a part of...): Republic of South Africa; South Africa (a republic at the southernmost part of Africa; achieved independence from the United Kingdom in 1910; first European settlers were Dutch (known as Boers)). 