Species Information1) An example of an animal is a Human with the scientific name of Homo sapiens. Interesting facts: 1) Humans are the most complex and developed organisms in the Animal Kingdom, they can read, use tools, talk, write etc. 2) Humans are animals which stand on 2 legs, don’t have much body hair. The common name is fungi, and so is the scientific name. A fungus is any organism that gets its food by absorbing nutrients from and breaking down the bodies of dead/dying plants or animals. They suck up food from tiny threads called hyphae. This means they’re decomposers, or heterotrophs.
T he following appendix lists the common and scientificnames of microorganisms, fungi, plants, and animals men-tioned in the report. The names are listed in the following order:viruses, bacteria, fungi, algae, plants, and animals. 
They are gram-negative. The more common name for this type of eubacteria is blue-green algae, which thrives in nutrient-rich ponds and lakes. Some forms of cyanobacteria can modify into specialized cells known as heterocysts. Eubacteria are far more common than archaebacteria. The majority of types of prokaryotes (of which there are about 400) fit under this category. More eubacteria can be found in a person's mouth than there are people on the planet. They can serve numerous different purposes from decomposing to causing disease.
There are three groups of Archaebacteria: Methanogens, Halophiles, and Thermoacidophiles. Archaebacteria can be known by Extremophiles, Methanogens, Halophiles, and Thermoacid … ophiles. The common scientific name for archeabacteria is Haloquadra walsbyi. 5 people found this useful. 
Commonly, a scientific name is composed of two words; the genus and the species of an organism. For example a dog is called, Canis domesticus, Canis being the genus and dome … sticus, the species. 7 people found this useful. Note that the genus is always capitalised. An example: Lemur catta is the scientific name of the Ringtailed lemur and Lemur … is the genus. Another example: Sphyrna zygaena is the scientific name of one species of Hammerhead shark and Sphyrna
1) An example of eubacteria is the blue green algae with the scientific name cyanobacteria. Blue green algae are unicellular prokaryotic cells which are very small. They do have a cell membrane, cell wall and DNA, but they don’t have a nucleus. It is classified in the eubacteria kingdom because it is a unicellular, prokaryotic organism. They are producers (photosynthetic bacteria). 2) Another example of eubacteria is Salmonella with its scientific name Salmonella typhi. The common name is fungi, and so is the scientific name. A fungus is any organism that gets its food by absorbing nutrients from and breaking down the bodies of dead/dying plants or animals. They suck up food from tiny threads called hyphae. This means they’re decomposers, or heterotrophs.
There are many types of bacteria, and scientists have spent many years culturing and studying their properties. The scientific name for the most common bacteria is Escherichia coli. E. coli was discovered by Theodore Escherich. This bacterium is found in the intestinal tract of every individual and helps breakdown food. It is also found in hot springs and radioactive waste, so it can exist in widely diverse environments. 
Archaebacteria are organisms that are actually very different biochemically and genetically from other bacteria. Hence, archaebacteria is an outdated term, and they are now classified in the Archaea domain. Classifications within this domain are unofficial due to debates over the descendancy of microbes. Hydrothermal Vent Archaea. One example in the Archaea domain is Methanocaldococcus jannaschii, currently classified as Archaea: Euryarchaeota: Methanobacteria; Methanobacteriales: Methanobacteriaceae, Methanocaldococcus, and species jannaschii.
The genus is the first part of a scientific name. Note that the genus is always capitalised. An example: Lemur catta is the scientific name of the Ringtailed lemur and Lemur … is the genus. Another example: Sphyrna zygaena is the scientific name of one species of Hammerhead shark and Sphyrna is the genus.