Put the thread and empty bobbin into position on your sewing machine. Wrap the thread around the bobbin to start it. On most machines, disengage the needle by turning the smaller handwheel on the machine toward you. Push the bobbin post into position, securing the bobbin into place. Your sewing machine should have a standard thread spool to hold the thread and a short, squat post wide enough for a bobbin. Look for these two elements, as well as a post or guide for the bobbin thread. In newer machines, the bobbin winder apparatus is most often on the top of the sewing machine.
Ensure your Brother sewing machine is plugged in and that the foot pedal is attached to the sewing machine. Turn on the machine and press the foot pedal down with your foot. Allow your bobbin to load with thread. Remove your foot from the foot pedal when your bobbin is full of thread. Cut the thread so that the thread running from the spool of thread is separated from the bobbin thread. Place the bobbin back in its case. Turn off the sewing machine. Open the panel to reveal where the bobbin and bobbin case are housed.
Instructions. Remove the bobbin and the bobbin case from your Brother sewing machine. Slide open the panel under which the bobbin and its case sits. Place your dominant forefinger and thumb around the bobbin case's latch, which is the protruding piece of metal attached to the case by a hinge. Remove your foot from the foot pedal when your bobbin is full of thread. Cut the thread so that the thread running from the spool of thread is separated from the bobbin thread. Place the bobbin back in its case. Turn off the sewing machine. Open the panel to reveal where the bobbin and bobbin case are housed.
Put the bobbin case aside. Place the bobbin onto the bobbin winding spindle, which is located on the top of right of the sewing machine as you face it, ready to sew. Close the panel you opened to locate the bobbin case and bobbin. Place your spool of thread onto your thread guide. Remove your foot from the foot pedal when your bobbin is full of thread. Cut the thread so that the thread running from the spool of thread is separated from the bobbin thread. Place the bobbin back in its case. Turn off the sewing machine. Open the panel to reveal where the bobbin and bobbin case are housed.
How to Load a Bobbin on a Sewing Machine. Remove the bobbin from the sewing machine. Note whether you have a drop-in, front or side-loading bobbin on your sewing machine. A drop in bobbin will load from the top, typically via a removable bobbin case cover near the machine-fed dogs. A side or front loading bobbin needs to be loaded into a removable bobbin case under the machine. Your sewing machine should have a standard thread spool to hold the thread and a short, squat post wide enough for a bobbin. Look for these two elements, as well as a post or guide for the bobbin thread. In newer machines, the bobbin winder apparatus is most often on the top of the sewing machine.
To find instructions for inserting a top loading bobbin, click HERE. FRONT LOADING WITH A BOBBIN CASE. My machine does not have a bobbin case, but my dear friend let me borrow her machine for some pictures. With the needle and presser foot up, open the hinged cover on the front of the machine. Pull the tab on the front of the bobbin case and gently remove the bobbin case from the sewing machine. Remove any bobbin that might already be in the bobbin case. Lay the wound bobbin on a flat surface, with the thread coming over the top to the right. 
Thread your sewing machine again if necessary before loading the bobbin. Remove the bobbin case cover and put the bobbin into position if you have a drop in style bobbin case. The thread should slide through a catch on the bobbin case and up through the cover. Access the bobbin case for a front or side mount bobbin. Your sewing machine should have a standard thread spool to hold the thread and a short, squat post wide enough for a bobbin. Look for these two elements, as well as a post or guide for the bobbin thread. In newer machines, the bobbin winder apparatus is most often on the top of the sewing machine.
Remove the bobbin from the sewing machine. if your machine has a free arm, you'll have to remove this first. Open the bobbin door to reveal the bobbin case, for vertical loading models. Watch as the top thread pulls the bobbin thread up through the hole in the plate under the presser foot. 1  You can pass the closed ends of a pair of scissors under the presser foot to help pull the thread up and out.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Brother sewing machine bobbin loading i am almost 100% positive that Brother has a on-line manual that has pictures that shows in detail how to do it. check it out. if that is no longer available, check out Janome as they are related to Brother. A bobbin winder is the part of a sewing machine that takes the thread from a spool of thread and winds it on the bobbin. The sewing machine bobbin is a mini-spool of thread, m … ade of plastic or metal, that holds the thread that will be on the underneath portion of your fabric when you sew.