Lactase is an enzyme produced by many organisms. It is located in the brush border of the small intestine of humans and other mammals. Lactase is essential to the complete digestion of whole milk; it breaks down lactose, a sugar which gives milk its sweetness. Lacking lactase, a person consuming dairy products may experience the symptoms of lactose intolerance. The optimum temperature for human lactase is about 37°C for its activity and has an optimum pH of 6. In metabolism, the β -glycosidic bond in D-lactose is hydrolyzed to form D-galactose and D-glucose, which can be absorbed through the intestinal walls and into the bloodstream.
People who are lactose intolerant have trouble digesting the milk sugar lactose. Lactase is an enzyme that splits the milk sugar lactose, to produce the sugars glucose and galactose. 1 For lactose intolerance: the typical dose of lactase is 6000-9000 IU tablets chewed and swallowed at the start of a meal that contains lactose. 2  2000 IU of the solution added to 500 mL of milk immediately before drinking it has also been used.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Lactose is a disaccharide sugar derived from galactose and glucose that is found in milk. Lactose makes up around 2–8% of milk (by weight), although the amount varies among species and individuals, and milk with a reduced amount of lactose also exists. Lactose is a disaccharide derived from the condensation of galactose and glucose, which form a β-1→4 glycosidic linkage. Its systematic name is β-.
Lactose intolerance means the body cannot easily digest lactose, a type of natural sugar found in milk and dairy products. This is not the same thing as a food allergy to milk. A big challenge for people who are lactose-intolerant is learning how to eat to avoid discomfort and to get enough calcium for healthy bones. Lactose intolerance occurs when the small intestine does not make enough of an enzyme called lactase. Your body needs lactase to break down, or digest, lactose.
Overview. Your sensitivity to lactose in dairy doesn´t have to put a crimp in your lifestyle if you know how to manage it. That´s what we´re here to help you do. LACTAID ® Dairy Products allow people to enjoy their favorite dairy foods because the lactose is already broken down in the products. LACTAID ® Dietary Supplements provide the lactase you need to break down the lactose in dairy foods. We want you to enjoy the foods you love.
The LCT gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called lactase. This enzyme helps to digest lactose, a sugar found in milk and other dairy products. Lactase is produced by cells that line the walls of the small intestine. 
Lactose is a type of sugar found in milk and other milk products. In the body, lactose is broken down with the aid of an enzyme called lactase. However, some people are lactose-intolerant because they do not have enough of the enzyme, which causes them to experience side effects like gas, bloating and diarrhea after taking milk products. Find alternatives for butter if you have trouble even with tiny amounts of lactose. Try margarine products that are lactose-free. These are often made from plant-based oils, which do not contain lactose. Read labels carefully and watch for lactose-free or dairy-free labels.
Answer by Highkicker. Confidence votes 1.0K. Lactase is an enzyme which breaks down lactose, a sugar found in milk and other dairy products. Many people are lactose intolerant, because they don't produce sufficient lactase in their digestive tract to break down the lactose, so the bowels become irritated etc. Lactase is a digestive enzyme that is produced by the small intestine. The prime function of lactase is to digest a sugar compound called lactose. Yap, lactase is an enzym … e that breaks down the disaccharide lactose yielding an end-product of glucose and galactose.
Lactase is an enzyme which breaks down lactose-a sugar found in  milk and other dairy products. Lactase is a digestive enzyme that is produced by the small intestine. The prime function of lactase is to digest a sugar compound called lactose. Yap, lactase is an enzym … e that breaks down the disaccharide lactose yielding an end-product of glucose and galactose.