The ozone layer is mainly found in the lower portion of the stratosphere, from approximately 20 to 30 kilometres (12 to 19 mi) above Earth, though the thickness varies seasonally and geographically. The ozone layer contains less than 10 parts per million of ozone, while the average ozone concentration in Earth's atmosphere as a whole is only about 0.3 parts per million.
Arctic Ozone Hole. The Ozone Layer The ozone layer is a layer in Earth's atmosphere which contains relatively high concentrations of ozone (O3). This layer absorbs 97-99% of the sun's high frequency ultraviolet light, which is potentially damaging to life on earth
Photograph by Stephen G. St. John. The ozone layer is a belt of naturally occurring ozone gas that sits 9.3 to 18.6 miles (15 to 30 kilometers) above Earth and serves as a shield from the harmful ultraviolet B radiation emitted by the sun. Ozone is a highly reactive molecule that contains three oxygen atoms. It is constantly being formed and broken down in the high atmosphere, 6.2 to 31 miles (10 to 50 kilometers) above Earth, in the region called the stratosphere. Today, there is widespread concern that the ozone layer is deteriorating due to the release of pollution containing the chemicals chlorine and bromine. Such deterioration allows large amounts of ultraviolet B rays to reach Earth, which can cause skin cancer and cataracts in humans and harm animals as well.
Where is ozone found in the atmosphere? Ozone is mainly found in two regions of the Earth's atmosphere. Most ozone (about 90%) resides in a layer that begins between 6 and 10 miles (10 and 17 kilometers) above the Earth's surface and extends up to about 30 miles (50 kilometers). This region of the atmosphere is called the stratosphere.
ozone layer. ozone layer or ozonosphere, region of the stratosphere containing relatively high concentrations of ozone, located at altitudes of 12–30 mi (19–48 km) above the earth's surface. Ozone in the ozone layer is formed by the action of solar ultraviolet light on oxygen. 
The troposphere extends up to the stratosphere layer, where good ozone protects life on Earth by absorbing some of the sun's UV rays. Stratospheric ozone is found most often between six to 30 miles above the Earth's surface. One layer, called the troposphere, is at the Earth's surface where we live. Ozone in the troposphere is bad because it dirties the air and helps make smog, which is unhealthful to breathe. The other layer, called the stratosphere, is miles above the Earth's surface. Ozone in the stratosphere is good because it protects life on Earth by absorbing some of the sun's harmful UV rays. Stratospheric ozone is found most often between six and
The ozone is so thin in this part of the world that the weather report on the nightly news includes five-minute sunburn alerts. Ozone is Earth's natural sunscreen. The ozone layer in the upper atmosphere, or stratosphere, absorbs harmful ultraviolet rays from the sun. In the 1980s, scientists discovered that manmade chemicals destroy ozone to the point where an actual ozone hole occurs. The good news is that this hole isn't getting any larger. 
The Thinning of The Ozone Layer. Introduction of the ozone layer. • The ozone layer is a region in the stratosphere, between 17 and 25 km above the earth’s surface. • The ozone layer contains high concentration of ozone molecules, O3 that absorb ultraviolet radiation and shield organisms from its damaging effects. Thinning of the ozone layer. • The thinning of the ozone layer is mainly due to chlorofluorocarbons (CFC). • Once in the stratosphere, CFC are broken down by ultraviolet rays. • As a result, the highly reactive chlorine radicals (Cl) are release. • These chlorine radicals break down ozone molecules, O3 in a chain reaction.