Go to crucial.com and click scan my computer to find out. Depending on the type of RAM and amount your PC can handle will determine the price. I would suggest having at least 512MB in a system. The prices are usually cheapest on newegg.com ranging from $25 up. Report Abuse. Depends the Amount of memory you want, i think you can add 256 MB total of 512 mb Ram will be fine, but always go for the best and get 1024 mb(1gb) ram ,it's much faster it will cost you about $ 40.
So you've upgraded your PC with 8GB of system RAM, only to find out that Windows doesn't see all of it. The reason is simple: 32-bit versions of Windows XP, 7, or Vista cannot use more than 4GB of system RAM —at least not without an ugly and unsupported hack. If you are running with 2GB or less RAM in your system, you could probably benefit from an upgrade unless you barely use your PC or run a single application at a time—it should be easy to open up Task Manager and check whether your memory usage is reaching the limit.
1. Purchase RAM that is compatible with your computer. There are different types of Random Access Memory. Some may work with your computer, and some may not. Consult the owner's manual for your computer or mother board to determine the correct RAM type. Ad. 2. Remove the cover or access panel from your computer. 1 Do not install more RAM than your computer is able to handle. 2  The owners manual will indicate the maximum amount of memory the computer is capable of utilizing. 3  Do not hold the RAM modules by their face sides or by the gold connectors on the bottom.
Check your PC's RAM usage by opening Windows Task Manager. Press. (Vista users will have to click) and click the tab. If the figure next to 'Available' (or 'Free' in Vista) under 'Physical Memory' hovers around zero and your PC seems sluggish, you need more RAM. Windows Task Manager can tell you if your machine needs more RAM. Windows Task Manager can tell you if your machine needs more RAM.
I want to add 3 or 4 GB of RAM on my computer. How much would all of this cost? And where can I buy RAM from? thank you I have a Vista HP Pavilian a6000n PC 1024 MB system Memory (RAM) 250 GB Hard Drive. You need to go to HP and get the details on what kind of memory you have in your system. Then you can purchase more either through HP (more expensive) or Newegg.com and get a better deal. Most 32-bit systems only recognize 3gb of memory.
If your desktop PC has slowed down, then memory (or the need for more) may be the culprit. Relax, a RAM upgrade is a lot easier than you think. We walk you through the steps, from figuring out how much and what kind you need to actually installing it. 
Help is easy and relatively inexpensive: upgrade the memory. Upgrading Computer memory (RAM) is one of the quickest, most efficient and most cost-effective ways to boost performance. Many new computers come with only a bare minimum of memory installed. Adding more RAM can add more zip to your system. And installation is not that complicated. 
Best Answer: Newegg.com. You need to go to HP and get the details on what kind of memory you have in your system. Then you can purchase more either through HP (more expensive) or Newegg.com and get a better deal. Most 32-bit systems only recognize 3gb of memory.
In this article I’m going to go over the best memory for gaming in 2015. If you’re building a new gaming computer, then you’ve probably heard that your memory is pretty important. In the simplest of terms, your computer’s memory gives your processor a place to carry out it’s processes. The more memory you have and the quicker it functions, the faster your processor can access important files. Of course, in gaming, there is only so much memory that can be had. Generally speaking, 4-8GB is all that is needed in order to max out the potential of adding more RAM. 
By Kirk Steers, PCWorld. Adding RAM is often the most cost-effective upgrade you can make to speed up a sluggish computer. PCs that had more than enough RAM when they were new often have trouble keeping up with the demands of the latest programs after a few years. New operating systems almost always call for more memory, too. If the figure next to 'Available' (or 'Free' in Vista) under 'Physical Memory' hovers around zero and your PC seems sluggish, you need more RAM. Windows Task Manager can tell you if your machine needs more RAM.