Amaranth flour is a gluten-free, protein-rich flour widely used by the Aztec and Inca civilizations of the pre-Columbian Americas. It is produced by grinding seeds from the amaranth plant into a fine powder. 
Amaranth is a gluten-free food and a source of complete protein—it contains all the essential amino acids, including lysine, which is lacking in most grains. High in fiber and a good source of magnesium and iron, Amaranth is a spectacular addition to your diet. 
Amaranth has been cultivated as a grain for 8,000 years. The yield of grain amaranth is comparable to rice or maize. It was a staple food of the Aztecs, and was used as an integral part of Aztec religious ceremonies. The cultivation of amaranth was banned by the conquistadores upon their conquest of the Aztec nation. Grain amaranth is also grown as a food crop in limited amounts in Mexico, where it is used to make a candy called alegria (Alegría spanish for) happiness at festival. Times amaranth species that are still used as a grain Are amaranthus, Caudatus amaranthus, cruentus And amaranthus. hypochondriacus
Amaranthus, collectively known as amaranth, is a cosmopolitan genus of annual or short-lived perennial plants. Some amaranth species are cultivated as leaf vegetables, pseudocereals, and ornamental plants. Most of the species from Amaranthus are summer annual weeds and are commonly referred to as pigweed. Amaranth seeds contain lysine, an essential amino acid, limited in grains or other plant sources. Most fruits and vegetables do not contain a complete set of amino acids, and thus different sources of protein must be used. Amaranth too is limited in some essential amino acids, such as leucine and threonine.
1 Amaranth contains more protein than any other gluten-free grain-and more protein than wheat. 2  One cup of raw amaranth contains 28.1 grams of protein. 3  Oats are a close second with 26.3 grams of protein. 4  In comparison, 1 cup of raw white rice contains 13.1 grams of protein. 1 1 cup of raw amaranth contains 18 grams of fiber-buckwheat and millet contain 17 grams. 2  In comparison, white rice contains 2.4 grams of fiber. 3  Amaranth is slightly lower in carbohydrate content compared to other gluten-free grains.
Amaranth is one of the most protein-rich of any plant-based food, rivaling that of animal-based foods like cheese. Ultimately, amaranth is a true powerhouse, known to help prevent a number of chronic health conditions such as diabetes, heart disease, cancer, and stroke. Luckily, it can be found in most supermarkets. Named after the Greek word “amarantos,” which means “one that does not wither, colorful amaranth flower buds stay vibrant even after drying. Cultivated by the Aztecs 8,000 years ago, amaranth is still popular in many cultures, and becoming more so in recent years.
1 Amaranth contains more fiber than other gluten-free grains. 2  1 cup of raw amaranth contains 18 grams of fiber-buckwheat and millet contain 17 grams. 3  In comparison, white rice contains 2.4 grams of fiber. 4  Amaranth is slightly lower in carbohydrate content compared to other gluten-free grains. 1 1 cup of raw amaranth contains 18 grams of fiber-buckwheat and millet contain 17 grams. 2  In comparison, white rice contains 2.4 grams of fiber. 3
Organic amaranth is a sweet, earthy, gluten-free grain. It's extremely high in protein, iron, and fiber, and a staple in gluten-free diets. Amaranth is a versatile grain that can be enjoyed as part of a satisfying hot breakfast, in delectable cookies, in savory soups, and more! How to Cook Amaranth. Use 1/2 cup amaranth to 1 1/2 cups water, broth, or liquid. Combine amaranth and liquid in a pot, and bring to a boil. Reduce the heat to low and let it simmer uncovered for 20-25 minutes, until all of the water is absorbed.
1 Amaranth is slightly lower in carbohydrate content compared to other gluten-free grains. 2  1 cup of raw amaranth contains 129 grams of carbohyrates, white rice 148 grams, brown rice and sorghum 143 grams and teff 141 grams of carbohyrdates. 1 1 cup of raw amaranth contains 18 grams of fiber-buckwheat and millet contain 17 grams. 2  In comparison, white rice contains 2.4 grams of fiber. 3 