Rosemary is known to have been used for magic, healing, and seasoning since the beginnings of recorded history. Native to seaside regions of the Mediterranean and North Africa, the Latin name Rosemarinus means dew of the sea, likely a reference to the shimmering blue flowers that cover rosemary bushes in mid-winter. Many people today love rosemary for its uplifting aroma and a delicious flavour, but it has found much wider appreciation over the years. Rosemary is strongly connected to rituals of love and marriage, symbolic of faithfulness and devotion.
During the Victorian era, the herbs a bride carried held serious meaning: lavender stood for luck and devotion, rosemary for remembrance, sage for a long life and thyme for courage. Well the trend of carrying herbs on your wedding day is back and prettier than ever. Here, 15 gorgeous examples…. Not only do fresh and dried herbs both look and smell amazing, but they also can symbolize just the sentiment you need for your upcoming marriage.
The herb of remembrance has been used to help those with a failing memory, usually in the form of a tea. Essential oil of rosemary is employed in massage oils and lotions. The camphorated oil soothes sore muscles and helps ease tension, perfect for stress headaches. Essential oil is not used internally. Many people today love rosemary for its uplifting aroma and a delicious flavour, but it has found much wider appreciation over the years. Rosemary is strongly connected to rituals of love and marriage, symbolic of faithfulness and devotion.
Richters InfoSheet D9003 Symbolism of Herbs Many herbs have symbolic meaning that goes back centuries, even millenia. For example, the ancient Romans offered wreaths of bay leaves as a symbol of triumph and peace.
Rosemary illustration from an Italian herbal, circa 1500. Rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis) essential oil. Rosemary is an aromatic evergreen shrub that has leaves similar to hemlock needles. The leaves are used as a flavoring in foods such as stuffings and roast lamb, pork, chicken and turkey. It is native to the Mediterranean and Asia, but is reasonably hardy in cool climates. In myths, rosemary has a reputation for improving memory and has been used as a symbol for remembrance during war commemorations and funerals in Europe and Australia. Mourners would throw it into graves as a symbol of remembrance for the dead
Rosemary. A sprig of rosemary. PAIU2004/137/01. Since ancient times this aromatic herb has been believed to have properties to improve the memory. Perhaps because of this, rosemary became an emblem of both fidelity and remembrance in literature and folklore.
As with most herbs, fresh is best when cooking with rosemary. However, dried rosemary does work well in stews and soups where long cooking times soften it up. To harvest, use a sharp knife or scissors and cut new growth. It is easier to cut long stems on younger plants because rosemary becomes quite woody with age. Many people today love rosemary for its uplifting aroma and a delicious flavour, but it has found much wider appreciation over the years. Rosemary is strongly connected to rituals of love and marriage, symbolic of faithfulness and devotion.
Symbolism of Herbs. Many herbs have symbolic meaning that goes back centuries, even millenia. For example, the ancient Romans offered wreaths of bay leaves as a symbol of triumph and peace. Earlier, bay was thought to be sacred for the Greeks and to be a protector from disease, witchcraft and lightning
It is a member of the mint family Lamiaceae, which includes many other herbs. The name rosemary derives from the Latin for dew (ros) and sea (marinus), or dew of the sea. The plant is also sometimes called anthos, from the ancient Greek word ἄνθος, meaning flower. Rosemary has a fibrous root system. In myths, rosemary has a reputation for improving memory and has been used as a symbol for remembrance during war commemorations and funerals in Europe and Australia. Mourners would throw it into graves as a symbol of remembrance for the dead