Accepta PAC is a high performance; superior quality poly-aluminium chloride (PAC) based coagulant, scientifically formulated for use in a wide range of commercial, municipal, manufacturing and industrial process applications including the treatment of wastewater and industrial effluent. Accepta's poly-aluminium chloride (PAC) is a highly efficient coagulant with low generation of waste sludge in a wide pH range, even at low temperatures.
Poly Aluminium chloride in all form, is extensively used as an industrial coagulant and Flocculent in different industries. Different grades of PAC are available for different purposes. 
Water Treatment Chemical(ETP) : Poly Aluminum Chloride used as a substitute of the Alum and Ferrous Sulfate. CHEMICAL FORMULA : (Aln(OH) mCl3n-m)X. Cas: 1327-41-9. PAC is an inorganic chemical having polymeric structure soluble in water.For the water treatment our team developed RI-9 more useful. Its specification. Mentioned below.
The chemistry of PAC is often expressed in the form Al n (OH) m Cl(3n-m). Basicity can be defined by the term m/(3n) in that equation. Because PAC is more expensive to produce than papermakers alum (aluminum sulfate) it is important to note the most important differences between these two products. 
Poly Aluminium Chloride-PAC. These compounds have the general formula (Al n (OH) m Cl (3n-m))x and have a polymeric structure, totally soluble in water. The length of the polymerised chain, molecular weight and number of ionic charges is determined by the degree of polymerisation. The reaction. Where we can produce, in the glass line reactor, polyaluminum chloride coagulants with a low and medium basicity. The most important is PAC 18 a liquid coagulant potable grade approved and it is an effective coagulant for treatment of both potable and waste water treatment.
Aluminium chlorohydrate is a group of specific aluminium salts having the general formula Al n Cl (3n-m) (OH) m. It is used in deodorants and antiperspirants and as a coagulant in water purification. Aluminium chlorohydrate is best described as an inorganic polymer and as such is difficult to structurally characterise.