The Safety Agency have confirmed that the UV emissions of the Bio Sculpture Unit are predominately in the UVA region and our lamps are safe to use for the application of our gel as long as you do not exceed a maximum of 75 minutes per session. Bio Sculpture is a very different product to other gels and hybrid gel polishes, the main difference being that Bio Sculpture will not cause any damage to the natural nails. Most gel systems on the market are acrylic based and cannot be removed without damaging the natural nail.
Bio Sculpture will last three weeks on your nails and about six to eight weeks on toe nails, as they grow a lot slower than finger nails. Some clients may last longer as they look after and maintain their nails well and others client who are hard on their nails may only last two weeks. The Safety Agency have confirmed that the UV emissions of the Bio Sculpture Unit are predominately in the UVA region and our lamps are safe to use for the application of our gel as long as you do not exceed a maximum of 75 minutes per session.
The success of the Bio Sculpture Gel System depends on the use of the system as a whole and not in combination with other products, gels, solvents or chemicals. We do not guarantee our products if used in combination with others. The color gel will last for weeks without fading, chipping or wearing away at the free edge. Yes, All of Bio Sculpture’s Treatment Gels and Color Gels are soak off. All Gel soaks off in as little as 10-20 minutes or 5 minutes per layer.
Bio Sculpture will last three weeks on your nails and about six to eight weeks on toe nails, as they grow a lot slower than finger nails. Some clients may last longer as they look after and maintain their nails well and others client who are hard on their nails may only last two weeks. It’s recommended to re-apply Bio Sculpture Top Coat more regularly while on holiday to protect your Gel nails from sun cream and chlorinated water. Yes, nail art can be applied giving lots of different effects and finishes to your gel nails. Bio Sculpture offer a complete range of nail art including gems, studs, foil, feathers & glitters. Bio Sculpture Gel allows for nail art to be embedded into our gel, therefore lasting as long as
If possible have a Bio Sculpture overlay applied approximately 5 weeks prior to the occasion. The Gel will actually protect the free edge of your natural nail and prevent it wearing away; you will be amazed how quickly your nails appear to be growing. In fact this is just that they are not breaking and wearing away. Yes, nail art can be applied giving lots of different effects and finishes to your gel nails. Bio Sculpture offer a complete range of nail art including gems, studs, foil, feathers & glitters. Bio Sculpture Gel allows for nail art to be embedded into our gel, therefore lasting as long as
Most of my clients agree that the long lasting finish that Bio Sculpture Gel gives is worth every penny! The majority of my clients book in to have infills done about 3 weeks from their last appointment. Every ones nails grow at different speeds, due to genetic differences and also varying levels of health and fitness. Nail polish is and always has been a pain. You ll apply it and then quite often by the end of the day it has already started to chip, needing a re coat. Bio Sculpture provides a long lasting strong finish to your nails, that lets them breath and keeps them healthy.
Bio Sculpture will last at least three weeks on your nails and about six to eight weeks on toe nails, as they grow a lot slower than finger nails. Bio Sculpture is a very different product to other gels and hybrid gel polishes, the main difference being that Bio Sculpture will not cause any damage to the natural nails. Most gel systems on the market are acrylic based and cannot be removed without damaging the natural nail.
They last a lot longer than regular nail polish, but are not nearly as long-lasting as Bio Sculpture Gel. At Bio Sculpture we are very proud of our unique and gentle formulation that see clients maintaining healthy nails whilst still being able to wear a nail enhancement or non chip manicure. Bio Sculpture is a very different product to other gels and hybrid gel polishes, the main difference being that Bio Sculpture will not cause any damage to the natural nails. Most gel systems on the market are acrylic based and cannot be removed without damaging the natural nail.
No, Bio Sculpture Gel does not cause any fungus or nail mold. Bio Sculpture Gel has undergone a stringent “ Clinical Test ” to assess the tolerability and efficiency of Bio Sculpture UV light-cured nail gel in first-time and long-term users – (Aug 2004). The color gel will last for weeks without fading, chipping or wearing away at the free edge. Yes, All of Bio Sculpture’s Treatment Gels and Color Gels are soak off. All Gel soaks off in as little as 10-20 minutes or 5 minutes per layer.
Bio Sculpture Gel can easily be removed within 10 – 20 minutes by soaking the gel nails in Bio Sculpture Soak Off (Gel Remover)) . Click here for soak off/ removal step-by-steps. The color gel will last for weeks without fading, chipping or wearing away at the free edge. Yes, All of Bio Sculpture’s Treatment Gels and Color Gels are soak off. All Gel soaks off in as little as 10-20 minutes or 5 minutes per layer.