Zero. Only 2 Presidents have been impeached, Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton; however, in both cases the Senate fell short of the necessary 2/3 needed to remove them from of … fice. Note: Richard Nixon was never impeached. He resigned before the House considered the impeachment resolution. President Bill Clinton, like Johnson, was impeached but the Senate lacked the voted needed to remove the President from the White House. none-only two presidents were ever impeached and neither was convicted and removed from office.
Clinton, the nation's 42nd president, was impeached by the House of Representatives on December 19, 1998, for allegedly misleading a grand jury about his extramarital affair with Lewinsky in the White House, and then persuading others to lie about it, too. Though Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton are the only two presidents to have been impeached, two others came very close to being charged with crimes. Related: 5 Members of Congress Who Want to Impeach Obama.
Johnson was impeached on February 24, 1868, in the U.S. House of Representatives on eleven articles of impeachment detailing his  high crimes and misdemeanors , in accordance with Article Two of the United States Constitution. The first impeachment (which ultimately ended in the first acquittal) of a sitting United States president, it was the culmination of a lengthy political battle between the Southern Democrat Johnson and the Republicans.
Outside of the 15 federal judges impeached by the House, two Presidents (Andrew Johnson in 1868 and William Jefferson (Bill) Clinton in 1998), a cabinet secretary (William Belknap in 1876), and a U.S. Senator (William Blount of North Carolina in 1797) have also been impeached. 
-- President Bill Clinton was impeached in 1998 on  obstruction of justice charges.   Both men were acquitted by the Senate.   (Richard Nixon resigned in 1974 rather than face  impeachment charges which the House was preparing against him. )   2 presidents, Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton. President Bill Clinton, like Johnson, was impeached but the Senate lacked the voted needed to remove the President from the White House. none-only two presidents were ever impeached and neither was convicted and removed from office.
Impeachment of Presidents Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton. In 1867 the 17th U.S. President Andrew Johnson, successor to the Presidency when Abraham Lincoln was assassinated, became the first President in American History to be impeached. Over One Hundred and Thirty years later history would repeat itself. He is the second and only other President in American History to be impeached. In both Presidential impeachments the Articles of impeachment were drawn and a criminal trial in the U.S. Senate proceeded. However, both Johnson and Clinton were acquitted of the charges and were not removed from office.
A President Impeached. Johnson's response to his impeachment was, Let them impeach, and be damned.. In the spring of 1868, Andrew Johnson became the first President to be impeached. The heavily Republican House of Representatives brought 11 articles of impeachment against Johnson. 35c. Johnson's response to his impeachment was, Let them impeach, and be damned.. In the spring of 1868, Andrew Johnson became the first President to be impeached. The heavily Republican House of Representatives brought 11 articles of impeachment against Johnson.
Only 2 Presidents have been impeached, Andrew Johnson and Bill Clinton; however, in both cases the Senate fell short of the necessary 2/3 needed to remove them from of … fice. Note: Richard Nixon was never impeached. President Bill Clinton, like Johnson, was impeached but the Senate lacked the voted needed to remove the President from the White House. none-only two presidents were ever impeached and neither was convicted and removed from office.