The Ojibwe (also Ojibwa), or Chippewa are a large group of Native Americans and First Nations in North America. There are Ojibwe communities in both Canada and the United States. In Canada, they are the second-largest population among First Nations, surpassed only by the Cree. In the United States, they have the fourth-largest population among Native American tribes, surpassed only by the Navajo, Cherokee, and Lakota. In his History of the Ojibway People (1855), William W. Warren recorded 10 major divisions of the Ojibwe in the United States. He mistakenly omitted the Ojibwe located in Michigan, western Minnesota and westward, and all of Canada.
The Saginaw Chippewa Indian Tribe of Michigan is comprised of three bands of Ojibway (Saginaw, Black River, Swan Creek), who lived primarily in the Eastern region of what is now Michigan. Our ancestors lived in this area for hundreds of years prior to the appearance of European settlers. 
Chippewa Indians. The Chippewa Indians are one of the largest Native American groups in North America. Over the years, the first nation of America has seen a rapid decrease in the number of pure breed Indians. Assimilation into American life and culture contributes to the reduction of Indians. They could be found in states such as Minnesota, Wisconsin, and Michigan. Additionally, a few bands of the Chippewa tribe inhabit parts of southern Canada. Together, there are approximately 150 different bands or groups of Chippewa Native Americans.
The Ojibwe (said to mean Puckered Moccasin People), also known as the Chippewa, are a group of Algonquian-speaking bands who amalgamated as a tribe in the 1600's. Ojibwe Indians in a maple syrup camp The manufacture of sugar was one of the principal Indian industries, if the term industry can be properly applied to anything existing in an Indian community. They produced large quantities of this article, and of good quality.
OJIBWE. The Chippewa Indians, also known as the Ojibway or Ojibwe, lived mainly in Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota, North Dakota, and Ontario. They speak a form of the Algonquian language and were closely related to the Ottawa and Potawatomi Indians. Ojibwe Indians in a maple syrup camp The manufacture of sugar was one of the principal Indian industries, if the term industry can be properly applied to anything existing in an Indian community. They produced large quantities of this article, and of good quality.
The Ojibwa Indians history is fascinating and important to all of northern Michigan. Anyone who visits Northern Michigan and wants to know about the history of the Straits of Mackinac should take the time to learn a bit about the wonderful history of the Anishinabe or First People as they refer to themselves. They remain the third largest Native American Nation in the United States. Only the Navajo and Cherokee have larger nations. And the influence of the Ojibwa nation reaches across the Northern United States from Michigan to Montana and in Canada from Western Quebec to British Columbia. However, it is here in northern Michigan where their presence continues to be felt and their traditions and culture admired
According to the Encyclopedia Britannica, when the French first encountered the Ojibwa Indians in 1640, they lived in a region near Sault Ste. Marie in the upper peninsula of Michigan; however, they moved further westward as the fur trade began to expand (895). The Ojibwa, who lived in the Great Lakes region, rely primarily on hunting, fishing and gathering as their central means of subsistence; additionally, they grew corn and squash in summer, harvested wild rice in the fall, and even (at least historically) tapped maple trees for sugar in the spring (Barnouw 5-6).
There are nearly 150 different bands of Chippewa Indians living throughout their original home land in the northern United States (especially Minnesota, Wisconsin and Michigan) and southern Canada (especially Ontario, Manitoba and Saskatchewan). Here is a map of Chippewa and Potawatomi communities in the US and Canada. In the United States more people use 'Chippewa,' and in Canada more people use 'Ojibway,' but all four of these spellings are common. They all come from an Algonquian word meaning 'puckered,' probably because of the tribe's puckered moccasin style of shoes.
The Ojibwa Indians. Introduction/General Information. The Ojibwa Indians, who make up one of the largest tribal groups in North America today, are considered the largest and most powerful of the Great Lakes tribes that existed, yet few people realize the significance of the Ojibwa in history. The Ojibwa, who lived in the Great Lakes region, rely primarily on hunting, fishing and gathering as their central means of subsistence; additionally, they grew corn and squash in summer, harvested wild rice in the fall, and even (at least historically) tapped maple trees for sugar in the spring (Barnouw 5-6).