Compensation. Salary.com reports in 2010 that the average salary for an ICU nurse is $68,111, almost $4,000 per year more than a registered nurse who is not working on the intensive care unit. CB Salary reports that the average salary for an ICU nurse is $73,491. The average salary varied by geographical location. 
$ 73000 average icu nurse salaries for job postings in dallas tx are 2 % higher than average icu nurse salaries for job postings nationwide
For example the median expected annual pay for a typical Staff Nurse-RN-Intensive Care Unit in the United States is $67,728, so 50% of the people who perform the job of Staff Nurse-RN-Intensive Care Unit in the United States are expected to make less than $67,728. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. 1  Salary. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Staff Nurse-RN-Intensive Care Unit that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Staff Nurse-RN-Intensive Care Unit are expected to make less than the median
An ICU Nurse is a great paying profession and all of the national wages for RNs specializing in the ICU focus are laid of for you state by state. Listed below is information that is specific to Registered Nurse ICU job salaries that you can expect to receive in that state area. Our state by state breakdown allows you to see which state is best to get a job as an Registered Nurse ICU. The salary information provided below is off of real-world job listings for Registered Nurse ICU and the pay offered for those jobs.
RN Salary Range. According to May 2014 data from the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), the average annual salary for a critical care nurse was $97,990. The bottom 10% of critical care nurses earned an average of $68,830 a year, while the top-10% of ICU's earned $131,050 annually
The annual salary for someone with the job title Staff Nurse-RN-Intensive Care Unit may vary depending on a number of factors including industry, company size, location, years of experience and level of education. This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Staff Nurse-RN-Intensive Care Unit that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Staff Nurse-RN-Intensive Care Unit are expected to make less than the median. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015.
Average Icu Nurse salaries for job postings in Florida are 7% lower than average Icu Nurse salaries for job postings nationwide. 
Nurse, Intensive Care Unit (ICU) Salary. (United States). The average wage for a Nurse, Intensive Care Unit (ICU) is $28.89 per hour. Experience has a moderate effect on pay for this job. A skill in Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) is associated with high pay for this job. $43,159 - $95,219. ICU nurses work in the intensive care unit, where patients are in critical and/or rapidly worsening condition. Because of this, an ICU nurse must be even more careful and conscientious in his or her work.