The spiny dogfish has a double dorsal fin. The anterior dorsal fin is larger than the posterior dorsal fin. The spiny dogfish has the presence two spines, one immediately in front of each dorsal fin. The spines carry a poison secreted by glands at their base. The caudal fin is divided into two lobes: a larger dorsal lobe and a smaller ventral lobe. Examine the side view photographs of the spiny dogfish shark by clicking the blue lettered links in the column to the right. The shark has a graceful and streamlined body shape built for fast, long distance swimming. The body is divided into the head, trunk, and tail.
The Spiny dogfish shark (Squalus acanthias), also known as the Spiny dogfish, is one of the most common and well known species of dogfish. It is a small species of shark, with an average length of 28-39 inches (70-100 cm), and reaching a maximum weight of 9.8 kg. There is no anal fin on the Spiny dogfish. The dorsal surface of the Spiny dogfish is slate-coloured and may have a brownish cast. There are rows of white spots along each side, from above the pectoral fins to above the pelvic fins.
The eyes of this species are quite large. The first dorsal fin is located about halfway between the pectoral fins and the pelvic fins. The second dorsal fin is about two-thirds the size of the first one and is located behind the pelvic fins. On the front of each dorsal fin there is a sharp spine attatched to them, giving the Spiny dogfish its name. The first spine is about half as long as the second spine. There is no anal fin on the Spiny dogfish. The dorsal surface of the Spiny dogfish is slate-coloured and may have a brownish cast. There are rows of white spots along each side, from above the pectoral fins to above the pelvic fins.
DESCRIPTION : Spiny dogfish are small sharks with a slate gray to tan coloring on their upper sides, becoming a pale white underneath. They are distinguished by having a row of white dots on each of their upper sides running from just after their head all the way to just in front of the second dorsal fin. 
Close-up of the head. The spiny dogfish has dorsal spines, no anal fin, and white spots along its back. The caudal fin has asymmetrical lobes, forming a heterocercal tail. The species name acanthias refers to the shark's two spines
Dorsal fin of a shark. A dorsal fin is a fin located on the backs of various unrelated marine and freshwater vertebrates, including most fish, cetaceans (whales, dolphins, and porpoises), and the (extinct) ichthyosaurs. Depending on the species, an animal may have one or two of them. Some species have further adapted their dorsal fins to other uses. The sunfish uses the dorsal fin (and the anal fin) for propulsion. In anglerfish, the anterior of the dorsal fin is modified into a biological equivalent to a fishing pole and a lure known as illicium or esca.
The second dorsal fin is smaller than the first and both fins have spines at their origin. The caudal fin is asymmetrical with the upper lobe being larger. The smooth edged short and oblique teeth are similar in both the upper and lower jaw. The spiny dogfish has an estimated life span of 25 to 30 years. 
Order: Squaliform. Dogfish sharks are the second largest of shark orders with 119 species. Dogfish come in all shapes, sizes, and colors and they live in almost every ocean habitat and depth. 