For the plant, see Fig. For the 1926 silent comedy film, see Fig Leaves. A fig leaf cast in plaster used to cover the genitals of a copy of a statue of David in the Cast Courts of the Victoria and Albert Museum. In the reign of Queen Victoria, display of male nudity was contentious and the Queen herself was said to find it shocking.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: leaf (Noun). The usually green and flat organ that represents the most prominent feature of most vegetative plants. leaf (Noun). Anything resembling the leaf of a plant. leaf (Noun). A sheet of any substance beaten or rolled until very thin. gold leaf. leaf (Noun). Leaf (noun). something which is like a leaf in being wide and thin and having a flat surface, or in being attached to a larger body by one edge or end; as : (a) A part of a book or folded sheet containing two pages upon its opposite sides.
• LEAF (noun). The noun LEAF has 3 senses: 1. the main organ of photosynthesis and transpiration in higher plants. 2. a sheet of any written or printed material (especially in a manuscript or book). 3. hinged or detachable flat section (as of a table or door). Familiarity information: LEAF used as a noun is uncommon. • LEAF (verb). The verb LEAF has 3 senses: 1. look through a book or other written material. 2. turn over pages. 3. produce leaves, of plants. Familiarity information: LEAF used as a verb is uncommon.
Turn pages, as in browsing or searching for something. For example, There she sat, leafing through the various catalogs. This expression employs leaf in the sense of turn over the leaves of a book, a usage dating from the mid-1600s. To go through some reading material quickly or superficially, turning from page to page, as in searching or browsing: On Sunday mornings, I leaf through the newspaper while eating breakfast.
Definition of LEAF for Kids. 1. : one of the usually flat green parts that grow from a plant stem and that functions mainly in making food by photosynthesis. 2. 3. : a single sheet of a book containing a page on each side. 4. : a part that can be added to or removed from a table top. — leaf·less \ˈlēf-ləs\ adjective. : one of the flat and typically green parts of a plant that grow from a stem or twig. : a sheet of paper in a book. : a part that can be added to or removed from a table to change the size of its top surface.
[ 1 syll. lea (f), le-af ] The baby boy name Leaf is also used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is Liy-F †. Leaf is used chiefly in the English language and it is derived from Old Norse origins. Leaf is a variant of the name Leif (English and Scandinavian). Leaf is a rarely used baby name for boys. It is not listed in the top 1000 names
Back to Words index. Back to Plant words index. That a leaf signifies truth, is evident from many passages in the Word where man is compared to a tree, or is called a tree, and where fruits signify the good of charity, and a leaf the truth therefrom (which indeed they are like); as in Ezekiel :--.
Leaf. A leaf is an organ of a vascular plant, as defined in botanical terms, and in particular in plant morphology. Foliage is a mass noun that refers to leaves as a feature of plants. Leaf (noun). something which is like a leaf in being wide and thin and having a flat surface, or in being attached to a larger body by one edge or end; as : (a) A part of a book or folded sheet containing two pages upon its opposite sides.
A leaf is an organ of a vascular plant and is the principal lateral appendage of the stem. The leaves and stem together form the shoot. Foliage is a mass noun that refers to leaves collectively. Typically a leaf is a thin, dorsiventrally flattened organ, borne above ground and specialized for photosynthesis. Most leaves have distinctive upper (adaxial) and lower (abaxial) surfaces that differ in colour, hairiness, the number of stomata (pores that intake and output gases) and other features.