More on Dacron from Infoplease: 1  Dacron: meaning and definitions-Dacron: Definition and Pronunciation. 2  Terylene: meaning and definitions-Terylene: Definition and Pronunciation. 3  tennis ball: meaning and definitions-tennis ball: Definition and Pronunciation. 1 Dacron: meaning and definitions-Dacron: Definition and Pronunciation. 2  Terylene: meaning and definitions-Terylene: Definition and Pronunciation. 3  tennis ball: meaning and definitions-tennis ball: Definition and Pronunciation. 4  sailcloth: meaning and definitions-sailcloth
Chemically, Dacron, which is DuPont’s trade name for the fabric, is the compound polyethylene terephthalate, although it quickly became known as polyester. Two brand-name polyester fabrics developed for the aircraft industry are Ceconite and Poly-Fiber. The adhesive should be dry to the touch before the Dacron is draped over the hull of the boat. I take the wrinkles out of the fabric by running my hand along the keel line, smoothing the fabric out in the midsection of the canoe, and then moving my hand from the keel line to the sheer line.
Noun. 1. Dacron-a kind of polyester fabric. Terylene. polyester-any of a large class of synthetic fabrics. trademark-a formally registered symbol identifying the manufacturer or distributor of a product. 
Dacron is normally sold by the pound and comes in rolls 27 or 54 inches wide. It can be anywhere from 1' to 1 1/2 in thickness and can be split up through the middle to give a thinner material for use as a cushion wrap. A 27 ' roll weighing around 13 pounds with give you proximity 70 -80 feet of goods. What is Dacron? Now you know. Dacron, when used on foam to be placed into cushion, will give it a rounded or softer look. It is used on only three sides, top, bottom and front edge. It must be glued on the foam to prevent it from getting out of place and brunching up. Cushion wrap also works like underpad for carpet does.
Dacron is a polyester batting that should be added to any foam surface so that it will not be exposed directly to the fabric. Dacron has ... Calculating yardage for dining room chair seats. Many people have dining room chairs that have seats that pop-out (unscrew from the chair frame). Second, because polyester batting remains springy, it is ever ready to put some light pressure against fabric. This means that even as the fabric stretches with age (and always happens) batting will push against the fabric and keep wear-worn waves from developing.
Even though it was almost 40 years ago that Dacron replaced cotton as the primary sail material for fore and aft sails, it is a bit difficult to explain all the subtleties of this fabric. Dacron sail fabric has continued to develop since it was introduced in the mid-fifties. Woven 8 oz. Dacron fabrics range from $.35 per square foot to $1.10 per square foot depending on the price and quality of the yarn, the manufacturing costs (smaller denier fibers require more shuttle passes and more time to weave than a larger denier fiber), yarn content and type of finish.
It may also be referred to by the brand name Dacron; in Britain, Terylene; or, in Russia and the former Soviet Union, Lavsan. The majority of the world's PET production is for synthetic fibers (in excess of 60%), with bottle production accounting for about 30% of global demand. Polyester makes up about 18% of world polymer production and is the fourth-most-produced polymer; polyethylene (PE), polypropylene (PP) and polyvinyl chloride (PVC) are first, second and third, respectively. PET consists of polymerized units of the monomer ethylene terephthalate, with repeating (C 10 H 8 O 4) units