Veal is meat that comes from the flesh of a slaughtered calf. It is known for being pale and tender, which is a result of the animal being confined and anemic. Instead of living on his mother's milk, the calf is fed a synthetic formula that is intentionally low in iron to keep the animal anemic and keep the flesh pale. Bob veal and slink veal come from unusually young calves. Bob veal can come from a newborn calf who was just a few days or weeks old at slaughter. Slink veal comes from an unborn, premature or stillborn calf.
Veal is the meat of calves (young cattle). Though veal can be produced from any calf, most veal comes from male calves of dairy cattle breeds. Veal-Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Veal is the meat of calves (young cattle). Though veal can be produced from any calf, most veal comes from male calves of dairy cattle breeds. ...
Veal is not an animal, it is a name for the meat that comes from a young bovine (namely a calf that is 3 months of age or less). Most veal is obtained from male dairy calves, … no matter if they're bulls or steers. 10 people found this useful. Veal is meat made from young calves. The common veal produced is made from dairy cows, and are usually made from male calves even though they can be made from either sex.
Veal-Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Veal is the meat of calves (young cattle). Though veal can be produced from any calf, most veal comes from male calves of dairy cattle breeds. ... They are fed milk and kept confined so that their ... YouTube - (What is Veal)Where*does*Veal*come*from? (What is Veal)Where*does*Veal*come from?Brief and Straightforward Guide: What is Veal? ... Veal is the meat produced from very young cattle -- most commonly BBC-Food-Food matters-Is veal cruel?
1 Bob veal, from calves that are slaughtered when only a few weeks old (at most 1 month old) up to 60 lb. 2  Formula-fed (white or milk-fed) veal, from calves that are raised on a milk formula supplement. 3  The meat colour is ivory or creamy pink, with a firm, fine, and velvety appearance. 1 Calves are slaughtered at about 24 weeks of age. 2  Special-fed veal is from calves fed a balanced milk-or soy-based diet one fortified with 40 essential nutrients, including essential amino acids, carbohydrates, fats, dietary iron and other dietary minerals and vitamins.
1 Formula-fed (white or milk-fed) veal, from calves that are raised on a milk formula supplement. 2  The meat colour is ivory or creamy pink, with a firm, fine, and velvety appearance. 3  They are usually slaughtered when they reach 18–20 weeks of age, 450 to 500 pounds (200 to 230 kg). 1 Calves are slaughtered at about 24 weeks of age. 2  Special-fed veal is from calves fed a balanced milk-or soy-based diet one fortified with 40 essential nutrients, including essential amino acids, carbohydrates, fats, dietary iron and other dietary minerals and vitamins.