The Talamasca Caste (or Order of the Talamasca or simply Talamasca) is described as a secret society set up to watch over and keep track of the paranormal, in particular, witches, spirits, werewolves and vampires. Rice describes them as  psychic detectives . The Talamasca Caste is a fictional secret society described in the works of Anne Rice.
Join date: 2011-09-17. The new Talamascan Library is dedicated to the preservation of our Pagan history. As such we are opening a library for the Pagan Public to be able to check-out books and magazines from various pagan authors and publishers. We are in the process of acquiring a building to house the library, but do not be discouraged as the library is indeed open. We currently do not have many books and so are seeking donation from our Brothers and Sisters in the Pagan community to send your old books, new or used, to us
9.) Character Image (can be pasted or linked-Tasteful pictures): 10.) Please provide a brief character history: 11.) Please provide us a brief sample of your role-playing abilities (No Logs): Click the mail button when you are ready to begin the application process. Please make sure that you read all of the rules before applying. 
Post by Stirling on. Talamasca: The Organization that documents paranormal activity. The name derives from a Latin word meaning animal mask, and was once used to denote witches and shamans. The Talamasca is a secret order. They require of their members confidentiality, honesty, loyalty, and obedience, but do not ask for belief in the supernatural. They have records of witch families, the witch trials of the Dark Ages, hauntings, sorcery, werewolves, and vampires. They also collect vampire refuse--possessions that vampires leave behind--and they have records dating back to the Dark Ages of vampire anatomy and its limitations.
Have you ever had that uneasy feeling you are being watched? Or perhaps have had the brief moment where you swear you saw something move out of the corner of your eye? Maybe a sudden whisper causing your skin to crawl and yet, much to your surprise, nothing is ever there. Chances are something was actually there, lurking in the shadows. The fact is that humanity isn't ready to find out just what exactly goes bump in the night. Many find the fact that a secret society dedicating their existence to studying the truth amidst the mythology quite an alarming notion, and even more frightening considering the fact the Talamasca are dedicated to keeping those secrets that have ensured the supernatural existence’s concealment.
The Talamasca is the reason why the creatures born in and of darkness stay in the shadows where they belong. Started in the 1st Century, but not officially until the 11th, the Talamascans watch, document and study occurrences of the paranormal with the purpose of a peaceful co-existence amidst humanity. Many find the fact that a secret society dedicating their existence to studying the truth amidst the mythology quite an alarming notion, and even more frightening considering the fact the Talamasca are dedicated to keeping those secrets that have ensured the supernatural existence’s concealment.
The Talamasca Caste aka Order of the Talamasca or simply Talamasca, is described as a secret society set up to watch over and keep track of the paranormal, in particular, witches, spirits, werewolves and vampires. The Talamasca itself was described in Rice 's novels as having motherhouses or bases in London, Amsterdam, Rome and other various parts of the world. The organization is said to have existed since the 1st Century.
The word Talamasca comes from Latin meaning animal mask. It was also an old term to describe a witch or a shaman. The Talamasca's motto is We watch. And we are always there, as mentioned in The Queen of the Damned, The Witching Hour, and The Vampire Companion. The Talamasca itself was described in Rice 's novels as having motherhouses or bases in London, Amsterdam, Rome and other various parts of the world. The organization is said to have existed since the 1st Century.