CPA License in Texas. Texas CPA license requirements are fairly straightforward and require 150 semester units along with 1 year of qualifying work experience. The AICPA ethics exam that is typically required by most states is replaced by a four hour ethics class and the Texas Code of Professional Conduct exam
1 Complete 150 semester hours or quarter-hour equivalents of college credit. 2  Complete 30 semester hours or quarter-hour equivalents of upper level accounting courses from a board-recognized college or university, of which 15 semester hours or quarter-hour equivalents must be in traditional face-to-face courses. 1 Hold a baccalaureate or higher degree from a board-recognized United States college or university, or an equivalent degree as determined by board rule from an institution of higher education in another country. 2 
Colorado. You can sit for the CPA Exam with a Bachelor’s degree, as long as 27 of those semester hours are in accounting courses (three of those in audit) and 21 semester hours are in business courses. Effective July 1, 2015, Colorado will also require 150 hours of education to sit for the CPA Exam. States Without 150 Hour Education Requirement. As of May 2012, there are just a few jurisdictions that do not currently require 150 hours of education and have not announced a change to their requirements to sit for the CPA Exam and be licensed.
To sit for the CPA exam as a first-time four-part candidate in Texas, follow these steps: You will need: 1. A Bachelor’s degree, or higher, awarded by an accredited institution recognized by the State Board, and. 2. 150 hours of college credit, and. Additional Educational Requirements. 1  150 semester hours with a minimum of 30 hours upper-level Accounting courses, of which at least 15 hours must be from traditional face-to-face courses and 2 hours of accounting or tax research,
For Texas CPA requirements, the State Board requires the full 150 credit hours to sit for the exam. After passing the CPA exam, you will need to accumulate 1 year of experience under the direct supervision of an active CPA licensee. 
The CPA license is issued at the state or territory (jurisdiction) level. To become a licensed CPA, you must be declared eligible for the examination, and subsequently licensed, by the board of accountancy in one of the 54 U.S. jurisdictions. 
The Texas State Board of Public Accountancy has a variety of requirements candidates must meet before they can apply to sit for the CPA exam. Their official website lists that candidates must: 1  Be of good moral character. If you still have questions about the Texas CPA Exam, education requirements, or the process as a whole, let us help. We can answer your questions and alleviate you concerns. After all, we've been helping exam candidates just like you since 1971. Since then, we've successfully helped more than 150,000 pass!
Education Requirements To Sit For CPA Exam. 150 semester units from an accredited university or educational institution: 1  Accounting: 30 semester units (upper division). 2  Business: 21 semester units. Texas CPA license requirements are fairly straightforward and require 150 semester units along with 1 year of qualifying work experience.
Before candidates can sit for the CPA exam in 2015, they must satisfy their particular state’s requirements and qualifications. Below, we discuss the requirements for licensure in the state of Texas. If you still have questions about the Texas CPA Exam, education requirements, or the process as a whole, let us help. We can answer your questions and alleviate you concerns. After all, we've been helping exam candidates just like you since 1971. Since then, we've successfully helped more than 150,000 pass!
New Hampshire. You can sit for the CPA Exam with a Bachelor’s degree, as long as it includes at least 24 semester hours in business, including at least 12 semester hours in accounting. However, effective July 1, 2014, candidates will need 150 hours of education to be licensed. States Without 150 Hour Education Requirement. As of May 2012, there are just a few jurisdictions that do not currently require 150 hours of education and have not announced a change to their requirements to sit for the CPA Exam and