Exceptionalism is the perception that a country, society, institution, movement, or time period is  exceptional  (i.e., unusual or extraordinary) in some way and thus does not need to conform to normal rules or general principles. Contents. 
exceptionalism. noun. 1  The condition of being exceptional or unique. 2  The theory or belief that something, especially a nation, does not conform to a pattern or norm. exceptionalism. noun. 1  the condition of being exceptional. 2  an exceptional or unique nature ascribed to a nation, culture, etc. and regarded as giving it a special role in history, world affairs, etc. 3  the belief in this.
Ian Tyrrell: Biography. Ian Tyrrell retired as Scientia Professor of History at the University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia in July 2012 and is now an Emeritus Professor of History. 
exceptionalism (ɪkˈsɛpʃənəlɪzəm). 1  an attitude to other countries, cultures, etc based on the idea of being quite distinct from, and often superior to, them in vital ways. noun
noun. The belief that something is exceptional, especially the theory that the peaceful capitalism of the US constitutes an exception to the general economic laws governing national historical development. Example sentences. 1  Reagan was renowned for his belief in American exceptionalism. 1 Reagan was renowned for his belief in American exceptionalism. 2  These possibilities may have complicated the search for the Great American Thing and subverted theories of
Definition of EXCEPTIONALISM. : the condition of being different from the norm; also: a theory expounding the exceptionalism especially of a nation or region. — ex·cep·tion·al·ist \-list\ adjective. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Examples of EXCEPTIONAL. 1  We're bending the rules for this exceptional situation. 2  an exceptional student in math. 3  The seafood dishes at this restaurant are exceptional. 
Medical exceptionalism. Use of the term  HIV exceptionalism  implies that AIDS is a contagious disease that is or should be treated differently from other contagions or entails benefits not available to those suffering from other diseases. 
This ideology itself is often referred to as American exceptionalism.. Although the term does not necessarily imply superiority, many neoconservative and other American conservative writers have promoted its use in that sense. However, this story has been challenged because the expression American exceptionalism was already used by Brouder & Zack in Daily Worker (N.Y.) on the 29th of January 1929, before Lovestone's visit to Moscow.