Meaning Of Maori Carvings. Hei-Matau (Fish Hook). These very stylised fish hooks represent strength, prosperity,abundance, fertility and a great respect for the sea. It also is said to provide good luck and safety when traveling over water so is often worn by travelers. Legend holds that the shape of Hawke Bay is that of the hei matau, which caught in the fish's side on the beach. The Māori name for the North island, Te Ika a Maui (The fish of Maui) reflects this legend. For the Māori, the hei matau is taonga (a cultural treasure).
Maori Fish Hook Meaning. The fish-hook shape of the hei matau finds its origins in Maori legend, which holds that the North Island of New Zealand was once a huge fish that was caught by the great mariner Maui using only a woven line and a bone hook. Legend holds that the shape of Hawkes Bay is that of the hei matau, which caught in the fish's side. For the Maori, the hei matau is taonga (a cultural treasure). It represents not only their land, but also prosperity, fertility and safe passage over water.
A hei matau is a bone or greenstone carving in the shape of a highly stylised fish hook typical of the Māori people of New Zealand. They represent strength, good luck and safe travel across water. Legend holds that the shape of Hawke Bay is that of the hei matau, which caught in the fish's side on the beach. The Māori name for the North island, Te Ika a Maui (The fish of Maui) reflects this legend. For the Māori, the hei matau is taonga (a cultural treasure).
Legend holds that the shape of Hawke Bay is that of the hei matau, which caught in the fish's side on the beach. For the Māori, the hei matau is taonga (a cultural treasure). It represents not only their land, but also prosperity, fertility and safe passage over water. They also denote the importance of fishing to Māori, and their relationship to Tangaroa god of the sea. Traditionally, bone hei matau were carved from whale bone.
The fish-hook shape of the hei matau finds its origins in Māori legend, which holds that the North Island of New Zealand was once a huge fish that was caught by the great mariner Maui using only a woven line and a hook made from the jawbone of his grandmother. Legend holds that the shape of Hawke Bay is that of the hei matau, which caught in the fish's side on the beach. The Māori name for the North island, Te Ika a Maui (The fish of Maui) reflects this legend. For the Māori, the hei matau is taonga (a cultural treasure).
Making the world better, one answer at a time. A hei matau is a bone or greenstone carving in the shape of a highly stylized fish hook typical of the Māori people of New Zealand. They represent strength, good luck and safe travel across water. For the Māori, the hei matau is taonga (a cultural treasure). It represents not only their land, but also prosperity, fertility and safe passage over water. They also denote the importance of fishing to Māori, and their relationship to Tangaroa god of the sea.
These Maori Designs are the Hei-Matau and is the fish hook. It symbolizes prosperity. Much of Maori traditional food is fish. The fish were so plentiful to the Maori that the simple ownership of a fish hook meant prosperity. 