Fluent in French, Italian, and English, Giovanna works and lives in New York. Cultural Awareness is the foundation of communication and it involves the ability of standing back from ourselves and becoming aware of our cultural values, beliefs and perceptions. There are several levels of cultural awareness that reflect how people grow to perceive cultural differences. My way is the only way-At the first level, people are aware of their way of doing things, and their way is the only way. At this stage, they ignore the impact of cultural differences. (Parochial stage). Increasing cultural awareness means to see both the positive and negative aspects of cultural difference
He states that “cultural self-awareness includes recognition of one’s own cultural influences upon values, beliefs, and judgments, as well as the influences derived from the professional’s work culture” (p. 9). (For more definitions, see Teaching Tools: Key Definitions.). 1 Influence the next generation of public health professionals to be culturally aware as a prerequisite toward achieving cultural and linguistic competence. 2  Cultural awareness includes being conscious of organizational culture and its implications for policy, practice, teaching, research, and community engagement.
Search also in: Web News Encyclopedia Images. cultural awareness Someone's cultural awareness is their understanding of the differences between themselves and people from other countries or other backgrounds, especially differences in attitudes and values. n-uncount. ...programs to promote diversity and cultural awareness within the industry. 1 adj Cultural means relating to a particular society and its ideas, customs, and art. usu ADJ n. ...a deep sense of personal honor which was part of his cultural heritage., ...the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation which promotes cultural and educational exchanges between Britain and India.
What Dr. Livermore is speaking about is cultural self-awareness. While I generally agree with him, I would like to highlight the importance of this self-awareness, as I think it is more than an essential part of cultural intelligence – it is the first and foremost step in developing one’s own cultural competence.
Multicultural Awareness is a greater understanding, sensitivity, and appreciation of the history, values, experiences, and lifestyles of groups that include, but, are not limited to: 1  Race. 2  Ethnicity. 3  Gender. 4  Sexual Orientation. 5  Religious Affiliation. 
cultural awareness. Someone's cultural awareness is their understanding of the differences between themselves and people from other countries or other backgrounds, especially differences in attitudes and values. n-uncount. ...programs to promote diversity and cultural awareness within the industry. 1 adj Cultural means relating to a particular society and its ideas, customs, and art. usu ADJ n. ...a deep sense of personal honor which was part of his cultural heritage., ...the Rajiv Gandhi Foundation which promotes cultural and educational exchanges between Britain and India.
Cultural awareness is a major element of cultural competence as defined by the National Center for Cultural Competence (NCCC). It is the first and foundational element because without it, it is virtually impossible to acquire the attitudes, skills, and knowledge that are essential to cultural competence. 1 Influence the next generation of public health professionals to be culturally aware as a prerequisite toward achieving cultural and linguistic competence. 2  Cultural awareness includes being conscious of organizational culture and its implications for policy, practice, teaching, research, and community engagement.
Why is it important that health and mental health professionals and the persons who instruct them develop cultural awareness? There are two very important reasons. First, we can acquire a much deeper self-knowledge when we are able to understand the basis for our own beliefs, actions, and responses toward others. 
We are generally aware that the first step in managing diversity is recognize it and learning not to fear it. Since everyone is the product of their own culture, we need to increase both self-awareness and cross-cultural awareness. There are several levels of cultural awareness that reflect how people grow to perceive cultural differences. My way is the only way-At the first level, people are aware of their way of doing things, and their way is the only way. At this stage, they ignore the impact of cultural differences. (Parochial stage). Increasing cultural awareness means to see both the positive and negative aspects of cultural difference