The available scientific data on gluten content in wines in which gluten has been used for clarification suggest that no gluten makes its way to the finished product you pour. There are three studies I’m aware of that have examined whether gluten used in the clarification process make their way to the wine itself. 
If you had asked me about a month ago if wine contained gluten I would have stated categorically “No”. Unfortunately I would have been wrong. It turns out that wines can contain gluten from two different sources. Wheat gluten can be used to help seal the wooden casks or barrels in which wine is aged. Theoretically this gluten could easily leach into the wine. Fortunately some wineries have moved away from wooden casks to stainless steel barrels for their aging process.
Most wine is naturally gluten free since it’s usually made from grapes and not wheat. The process involved in making wine does not usually add gluten to the product. However, some wines that have added flavors may add gluten, as part of the process, to the wine. It is wise to steer clear of flavored wines, for example dessert wines, that are not labeled as gluten free. Photo Credit: Uncalno.
Now that you are gluten free, you don’t have to cut out alcohol. Being gluten free means you are excluding gluten – a starchy protein, from your diet. Gluten is found in wheat, barley, and rye. Gluten has many applications. It is used as a thickening agent. 
Most wine is considered gluten-free because it is made from grapes, which do not contain gluten. So, for the most part, wine is considered gluten-free and safe to drink. There are a few exceptions however, because certain aspects of the wine-making process can introduce gluten to the final product.
· Report post. Wine does not contain gluten. The really cheap stuff that you get in grocery stores thats peach flavored or whatever and wine in a box, maybe those have gluten ingredients, but if you were out at dinner, chances are that's not what you had. Elonwy. It was likely some kind of syrup they put in it, not the wine itself. I'm actually drinking a glass of pinot noir right now-thank goodness wine is gluten-free! Well, actually, I read all the ingredients of the drink and it sounded ok. I think it *may* have been the salad.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Nwoebcke. Confidence votes 88. Yes it can have gluten in it. Do a Google search on gluten and red wine and you will see that lately gluten has been used as a clarifying agent in red wines. It used to be animal proteins but because of mad cow disease, believe it or not, wine makers have started using wheat gluten as an alternative. 
Wine and Champagne. Wine is gluten-free because wine is made from grapes. The Celiac Disease Foundation says all fruits are gluten-free and safe for people with celiac disease to consume. Champagne and sparkling wines are also made from grapes and gluten-free. If you have a gluten reaction after drinking wine, it is probably because the winemaker caulked the barrels with flour paste or used a grain-based dye, according to the website The Hot Plate. Although this is rare, the website recommends writing down the name of the offending wine and simply avoiding it in the future. Gluten, a protein found in wheat, rye and barley, can cause digestive problems and even permanent damage to the small intestines of people with celiac disease. Many foods and beverages contain gluten, including some alcoholic drinks.
Gluten may be used as a clarifying agent in wine, some of which might remain in the product. The diet excludes foods containing gluten, such as wheat, rye, barley, triticale, kamut, malt, and foods that may include them, or shared transportation or processing facilities with them. A gluten-free diet is a diet that excludes gluten, a protein composite found in wheat and related grains, including barley and rye.