For the nearby strait, see Golden Gate. For the bridge, see Golden Gate Bridge. Golden Gate Park, located in San Francisco, California, United States, is a large urban park consisting of 1,017 acres (412 ha) of public grounds. It is administered by the San Francisco Recreation & Parks Department, which began in 1871 to oversee the development of Golden Gate Park. With 13 million visitors annually, Golden Gate is the fifth most-visited city park in the United States after Central Park in New York City, Lincoln Park in Chicago, and Balboa Park and Mission Bay Park in San Diego.
Details. For locals, The Golden Gate Bridge (Highway 101 North) provides a vital link between San Francisco and Marin County and is possibly the prettiest morning commute in the world. For over 10 million visitors each year, walking on the bridge is the highlight of their trip to San Francisco. Named after the Golden Gate Strait that it spans; the Golden Gate Bridge marks the entrance to the San Francisco Bay from the Pacific Ocean. Joseph B. Strauss was Chief Engineer on the bridge. At a cost of $35 million, the 1.2-mile bridge took more than four years to build.
The structure links the U.S. city of San Francisco, on the northern tip of the San Francisco Peninsula, to Marin County, bridging both U.S. Route 101 and California State Route 1 across the strait. The bridge is one of the most internationally recognized symbols of San Francisco, California, and the United States. The Golden Gate Bridge is the top most used suicide site/ suicide bridge in the world, after the Nanjing Yangtze River Bridge (see List of suicide sites). The deck is about 245 feet (75 m) above the water.
The Golden Gate is the North American strait that connects San Francisco Bay to the Pacific Ocean. It is defined by the headlands of the San Francisco Peninsula and the Marin Peninsula, and, since 1937, has been spanned by the Golden Gate Bridge. The Golden Gate Bridge was the longest suspension bridge span in the world when completed in 1937, and is an internationally recognized symbol of San Francisco and California.
The Golden Gate Bridge is a suspension bridge spanning the Golden Gate, the opening of the San Francisco Bay onto the Pacific Ocean. As part of both US Highway 101 and California Route 1, it connects the city of San Francisco on the northern tip of the San Francisco Peninsula to Marin County. The Golden Gate Bridge was the longest suspension bridge span in the world when completed in 1937, and is an internationally recognized symbol of San Francisco and California.
Crossing the strait of the Golden Gate from San Francisco to the Marin headlands for 1.7 miles is the world-renowned Golden Gate Bridge, easily identified by its International Orange color. Opened in 1937, the bridge was built at a cost of $35 million in principal and $39 million in interest and 11 workers’ lives. Golden Gate Bridge. Once called the bridge that couldn't be built, today it is one the seven wonders of the modern world. This magnificent span, perhaps San Francisco's most famous landmark, opened in 1937 after a four-year struggle against relentless winds, fog, rock and treacherous tides.
1 Walking is the best ways to experience the immensity of the Bridge. 2  It is 1.7 miles long and it takes approximately 45–60 minutes to walk across. 3  The sidewalk is open to visitors seven days a week during the hours between sunrise and sunset. 4  The Bridge is open to autos and cyclists 24 hours a day. Rain occurs in winter and spring. 1 
The Golden Gate Bridge is a suspension bridge spanning the Golden Gate strait, the 1 mile (1.6 km) wide, 3 mile (5 km) long channel between San Francisco Bay and the Pacific Ocean. The Golden Gate Bridge is the top most used suicide site/ suicide bridge in the world, after the Nanjing Yangtze River Bridge (see List of suicide sites). The deck is about 245 feet (75 m) above the water.
Golden Gate Bridge. Yes, it is even more awesome than you imagined. Since it opened in 1937, this 1.7-mile suspension span between San Francisco and Marin counties has become one of the most beloved bridges in the world. A work of art, an engineering marvel, and an American icon, the Bridge is flanked on both ends by the natural beauty of the Golden Gate National Parks. Rain occurs in winter and spring. 1  Walking is the best ways to experience the immensity of the Bridge. 2  It is 1.7 miles long and it takes approximately 45–60 minutes to walk across. 3  The sidewalk is open to visitors seven days a week during the hours between sunrise and sunset.