Entry-level environmental engineering jobs require a bachelor's degree. Programs typically last 4 years and include classroom, laboratory, and field studies. Some colleges and universities offer cooperative programs in which students gain practical experience while completing their education. 9%. Employment of environmental engineers is projected to grow 15 percent from 2012 to 2022, faster than the average for all occupations. State and local governments’ concerns about water are leading to efforts to increase the efficiency of water use.
Consider applying for certification. After you become a professional engineer, you can apply to the National Society of Professional Engineers or the American Academy of Environmental Engineers and Scientists. 3. Get involved with a university research team. If you are unable to find an internship or co-op during a semester, apply to help with an environmental engineering research project. Experience in analyzing and testing data is highly valued in the workplace.
Earn Your Degree. A four-year degree in environmental, civil or chemical engineering opens the door to this career. Classes in a bachelor's program in environmental engineering include calculus, chemistry, physics, statistics and computer programming. Environmental engineers help solve environmental problems through engineering and science. For example, some design systems for waste management and erosion control.
Most entry-level environmental engineer jobs require a bachelor degree in environmental engineering. Undergraduate environmental engineering programs place a heavy emphasis on math and science, including courses in algebra, trigonometry, calculus, physics, chemistry and biology. Students who are interested in working to protect wildlife and the environment, or improving public health through environmental clean up and prevention of new issues, will enjoy going into the field of
The median annual wage for environmental engineers was $80,890 in May 2012. The median wage is the wage at which half the workers in an occupation earned more than that amount and half earned less. The lowest 10 percent earned less than $49,510, and the top 10 percent earned more than $122,290. 9%. Employment of environmental engineers is projected to grow 15 percent from 2012 to 2022, faster than the average for all occupations. State and local governments’ concerns about water are leading to efforts to increase the efficiency of water use.
A bachelor’s degree is needed to become an environmental engineer. Environmental engineers must have a bachelor’s degree in environmental engineering or a related field, such as civil, chemical, or general engineering. 9%. Employment of environmental engineers is projected to grow 15 percent from 2012 to 2022, faster than the average for all occupations. State and local governments’ concerns about water are leading to efforts to increase the efficiency of water use.
Promotion to a leadership position within the electrical engineering industry often requires a graduate degree. A master's degree in environmental engineering requires up to two years of advanced course work and either practical research or hands-on projects. Master of science degrees with an engineering focus are more research-oriented, and they open the door to work with governments, research facilities and colleges. Careers in environmental engineering typically begin with a bachelor's degree. Because it's an intellectually diverse field, the undergraduate curriculum includes classwork in many disciplines. Several courses focus on basic engineering and the advanced mathematics necessary for design work.
The base salary range for environmental engineers with the entry-level title of Environmental Engineer I is $41,574 to $61,290, with most environmental engineers at this level making between $46,430 and $56,750. Students who are interested in working to protect wildlife and the environment, or improving public health through environmental clean up and prevention of new issues, will enjoy going into the field of environmental engineering.
4. Apply for an entry-level environmental engineer position. You can’t lead an engineering project in most states without a license. However, the experience gain assisting a licensed environmental engineer will help you to earn your license. 5. Gain 4 years of experience in environmental engineering. 3. Get involved with a university research team. If you are unable to find an internship or co-op during a semester, apply to help with an environmental engineering research project. Experience in analyzing and testing data is highly valued in the workplace.
Answer   After you receive your degree, some states require you to work with a professional engineer for a period of time before you are allowed to take your state's PE exam. For example: In California you must work under a PE for 2 years before being allowed to take the PE exam, but in Nevada it's 4 years. Using the principles of biology and chemistry, environmental engineers develop solutions to environmental problems. They are involved in water and air pollution control, recyc … ling, waste disposal, and public health issues.