The endocrine system includes all of the glands of the body and the hormones produced by those glands. The glands are controlled directly by stimulation from the nervous system as well as by chemical receptors in the blood and hormones produced by other glands. 
Another cause of potassium deficiency is illness. Like excessive vomiting, excessive diarrhea can also cause the inability for the body to absorb potassium. Hyperthyroidism can also be a cause of potassium deficiency. The thyroid is the main gland for hormone production. When the thyroid produces too much hormone, it causes an imbalance in the minerals found in the body including potassium. Anemia is another cause of potassium deficiency. Crushing's Disease is an illness that causes potassium deficiency as well
1 Cortisol levels are used, along with ACTH and ACTH stimulation tests, to help diagnose adrenal insufficiency. 2  ACTH. 3  ACTH is a pituitary hormone that signals the adrenal glands to produce cortisol. 4  This test is primarily ordered as a baseline test to evaluate if the pituitary is producing appropriate amounts of ACTH. 1 If the adrenal gland is either not functioning normally or not being stimulated by ACTH, then cortisol levels will be consistently low. 2 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Aldosterone is a steroid hormone (mineralocorticoid family) produced by the outer section (zona glomerulosa) of the adrenal cortex in the adrenal gland. 
Sodium and potassium are both regulated by the adrenal glands. So weakened adrenal glands can cause an imbalance in the sodium and potassium levels. Aldosterone is a steroid hormone which helps to regulate the levels of these minerals. This hormone helps to preserve the sodium levels, and secretes potassium. In this situation, taking potassium without sodium can actually make the adrenal condition worse. While the adrenals help to regulate the sodium and potassium levels, imbalances in these minerals can also affect the adrenals, and thus directly or indirectly affect thyroid health.
Hyperkalemia is an electrolyte imbalance and is indicated by a high level of potassium in the blood. The normal adult value for potassium is 3.5-5.3 mEq/L. Potassium is one of many electrolytes in your body. It is found inside of cells. Potassium is excreted (or flushed out of your system) by your kidneys. Any damage to your kidneys, when they are not working properly, may cause an increase in potassium levels leading to hyperkalemia. As seen with tumor lysis syndrome-when you receive chemotherapy, the drugs will act by breaking down the tumor cells.
Hyperaldosteronism is a condition where too much aldosterone is produced by the adrenal glands, which can lead to a high blood pressure and loss of potassium (hypokalemia). Most cases of hyperaldosteronism are caused by benign (non-cancerous) tumors of the adrenal gland, which overproduce aldosterone. The adrenal glands are divided into an outside layer called the cortex and an inner layer called the medulla. Cells in the adrenal cortex make steroid hormones derived from cholesterol, including glucocorticoids (cortisol), mineralocorticoids (aldosterone) and androgrens.
A potassium deficiency is the lack of potassium in the body. There are many causes for this deficiency including illness and poor diet. When the body is unable to absorb potassium or does not receive potassium in foods, the result is a potassium deficiency. The thyroid is the main gland for hormone production. When the thyroid produces too much hormone, it causes an imbalance in the minerals found in the body including potassium. Anemia is another cause of
1 If your kidneys are not able to process and excrete potassium and other electrolytes, due to renal (kidney) failure, you may be at risk for hyperkalemia. 2  Your adrenal glands are important regulators of potassium in your blood. 3  Endocrine or hormonal problems (such as Adrenal insufficiency) can cause hyperkalemia. Potassium is excreted (or flushed out of your system) by your kidneys. Any damage to your kidneys, when they are not working properly, may cause an increase in potassium levels leading to hyperkalemia. As seen with tumor lysis syndrome-when you receive chemotherapy, the drugs will act by breaking down the tumor cells.
The high aldosterone level increases reabsorption of sodium (salt) and loss of potassium by the kidneys, often resulting in an electrolyte imbalance. Signs and symptoms include high blood pressure, headache, and muscle weakness, espeically if potassium levels are very low. Aldosterone and renin tests are used to evaluate whether the adrenal glands are producing appropriate amounts of aldosterone and to distinguish between the potential causes of excess or deficiency.