Pityriasis rosea (rash). Pityriasis rosea is a rash that usually begins as a large circular or oval spot on your chest, abdomen or back. Called a herald patch, this spot can be up to 4 inches (10 centimeters) across.
Pityriasis rosea (also known as pityriasis rosea Gibert) is a skin rash. It is benign but may inflict substantial discomfort in certain cases. Classically, it begins with a single herald patch lesion, followed in 1 or 2 weeks by a generalized body rash lasting up to 12 weeks, however usually around 6 - 8. 
By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Pityriasis rosea is a common skin condition that is manifested by a distinctive skin rash that appears red, scaly and in patches all over the body. The rashes are often itchy and may be severe in three fourths of the cases. The condition usually goes away without treatment in three months or so. 
Pityriasis rosea characteristically begins as an asymptomatic single, large pink, scaly patch called the herald patch or mother patch, measuring 2-10 centimeters. The herald patch is a dry pink to red patch which appears on the back, chest, or neck and has a well-defined, scaly border. 1 Pityriasis rosea begins as a single, large pink patch found on the trunk called the herald patch.. 2  The herald patch is followed one to two weeks later with smaller pink patches in a Christmas tree configuration.
Pityriasis rosea is a temporary skin condition that's common in teens and young adults. It's a pink or gray, scaly skin rash that can last for 4 to 8 weeks, and sometimes months. The rash usually starts with one big patch on the chest, abdomen, thighs, or back. 
Pityriasis rosea (say pih-tih-RY-uh-sus ROH-zee-uh) is a common skin problem that causes a rash. Although it can occur at any age, it is seen most often in those between the ages of 10 and 35. Pityriasis rosea is usually harmless. Pityriasis rosea causes a rash. 1  The rash often begins with a single, round or oval, pink patch that is scaly with a raised border (herald patch). 2  The size of the patch ranges from 2 cm (0.8 in.) to 10 cm (3.9 in.) . 3  The larger patches are more common. 4  See a picture of a herald patch.
Pityriasis rosea is a common rash usually seen in individuals between 10-35 years of age. The rash typically lasts six to eight weeks, rarely extending 12 weeks or longer. Once a person has pityriasis rosea, it generally does not recur in their lifetime. 1 Pityriasis rosea begins as a single, large pink patch found on the trunk called the herald patch.. 2  The herald patch is followed one to two weeks later with smaller pink patches in a Christmas tree configuration.
Introduction. Pityriasis rosea is a relatively common skin condition that causes a temporary skin rash of raised, red scaly patches on the body. The rash can be very itchy and usually clears within 2-12 weeks, but on rare occasions can last up to 5 months