Tyrer P, Rutherford D, Huggett T. 40 patients seen in general practice and psychiatric outpatient clinics who had taken lorazepam or diazepam alone in regular dosage for a mean period of 3.6 years had their benzodiazepine replaced by propranolol (60--120 mg/day) or placebo for two weeks under double-blind conditions. Depending on the criteria for the definition of an abstinence syndrome, 27--45% of the patients had withdrawal symptoms during the study. Propranolol did not affect the drop-out rate or the incidence of withdrawal symptoms but significantly reduced their severity in patients completing the study.
Propranolol is not FDA-approved for anxiety, but it is commonly used off-label for the as-needed treatment of performance anxiety. Advantages of propranolol over benzodiazepines include propranolol’s lack of abuse potential and minimal CNS effects on alertness and psychomotor performance. Several studies suggest that a one-time dose of propranolol 30–60 minutes prior to a performance reduces anxiety. Withdrawal is the occurrence of new symptoms as a result of medication discontinuation, and may occur in 60% to 100% of patients depending on the outcome criteria used, with a peak severity at 2 days for short half-life and 4–7 days for long half-life benzodiazepines.
Propranolol (INN) is a sympatholytic nonselective beta blocker. It is used to treat high blood pressure, a number of heart dysrhythmias, thyrotoxicosis, and essential tremors. It is used to prevent migraine headaches, and to prevent further heart problems in those with angina or previous heart attacks. It was the first successful beta blocker developed. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, a list of the most important medications needed in a basic health system. Propranolol is available in generic form.
The non-benzodiazepine anxiolytics, including buspirone, propranolol, hydroxyzine, and gabapentin, have specific and limited roles in the treatment of anxiety, but their side-effect profiles are fairly benign. Withdrawal is the occurrence of new symptoms as a result of medication discontinuation, and may occur in 60% to 100% of patients depending on the outcome criteria used, with a peak severity at 2 days for short half-life and 4–7 days for long half-life benzodiazepines.
Propranolol interactions with diazepam, lorazepam, and alprazolam. Ochs HR, Greenblatt DJ, Verburg-Ochs B. Healthy subjects received single doses of diazepam (5 to 10 mg iv), lorazepam (2 mg iv), or alprazolam (1 mg orally) on two occasions, once in the control state and once with propranolol, 80 mg three times a day. Thus propranolol induces a small but significant reduction in clearance of diazepam, biotransformed mainly by the oxidative reaction of N-demethylation. Propranolol does not impair lorazepam clearance by glucuronide conjugation nor that of alprazolam by aliphatic hydroxylation.
Inderal (propranolol) belongs to a group of drugs called beta-blockers that block Beta-adrenergic receptors present in the heart, liver, pancreas, blood vessels, and the bronchial tree. This blockade of receptors can bring about changes in their function. Antihypertensive drugs (blood pressure drugs): This medication can cause hypotension and can lead to fatigue and lethargy if combined with blood pressure medication. Diltiazem, Verapamil, Cimetidine, and Hydralazine: These drugs cause a decrease in the breakdown of Inderal, leading to an increase in its concentration.
Benzodiazepines. Anti-anxiety drugs known as benzodiazepines inhibit nerve-cell excitability in the brain and are considered to be the treatment of choice. They relieve withdrawal symptoms, help prevent progression to delirium tremens, and reduce the risk for seizures. When used by themselves, however, they do not appear to reduce seizures or delirium associated with withdrawal. Other Supportive Drugs. Beta blockers, such as propranolol (Inderal) and atenolol (Tenormin), are sometimes used in combination with b
Inderal® is the brand name for the drug Propranolol. It is used in the treatment of anxiety, panic attacks and post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). It is also used to treat stage fright and because of this it is on the list of banned substances for Olympic athletes. Inderal is also being studied for use in aggressive behavior in traumatic brain injuries.