1 Don't add bottles to water that is already boiling. 2  The shock from the heat could cause the glass to break. 3  Don't let the bottles boil for more than 5 minutes. 4  This is a sufficient amount of time to sterilize them. 1 If you have too many bottles to fit in your pot, you can sterilize your bottles in batches. 2  You can add the lids and nipples to the pot with the bottles. 3  Don't add bottles to water that is already boiling. 4  The shock from the heat could cause the glass to break. 5  Don't let the bottles boil for more than 5 minutes
1 You can add the lids and nipples to the pot with the bottles. 2  Don't add bottles to water that is already boiling. 3  The shock from the heat could cause the glass to break. 4  Don't let the bottles boil for more than 5 minutes. 5  This is a sufficient amount of time to sterilize them. 1 If you have too many bottles to fit in your pot, you can sterilize your bottles in batches. 2  You can add the lids and nipples to the pot with the bottles. 3  Don't add bottles to water that is already boiling. 4  The shock from the heat could cause the glass to break. 5  Don't let the bottles boil for more than 5 minutes
Before you first use new bottles, nipples, and rings, sterilize them by submerging them in a pot of boiling water for at least five minutes. Then let them air dry on a clean towel. After that, a good cleaning in hot, soapy water or a cycle through the dishwasher is sufficient. 
Instructions. Place the bottles into a pot. Cover the bottles with several inches of water. Place the pot on a burner on high heat. Boil the bottles for at least five minutes to sterilize them. Begin timing the boiling once the water begins to boil, not when you first turn on the stove. Remove the bottles from the pot and place them on a clean towel or drying rack to dry. If you are planning to use these bottles for drinking, however, you should sterilize them so that you don't expose yourself to viruses or bacteria. Baby bottles also should be sterilized periodically. One of the easiest methods of sterilizing bottles is to boil them.
Sterilizing Your Baby Bottles. Bring water to a boil in your pot on the stove top. Place bottles into the boiling water and boil for at least 10 minutes. Remove from the boiling water with tongs and lay them on towels to cool and dry. Place your bottles in the steamer insert and bring the water to a boil. Cover the pot, and allow the bottles to steam for a period of no less than 10 minutes. Then remove the pot from the heat, and remove the cover from the pot. Allow the bottles to cool for at least 5 minutes prior to handling
To pre-sterilize jars, place the cleaned jars right-side-up on a rack in a canner and fill the jars and canner with water to 1-inch above the tops of the jars. Bring the water to a boil and then boil for 10 minutes at altitudes less than 1,000 feet elevation. Add 1 additional minute for each additional 1,000 feet of elevation. When you are ready to fill the jars, remove the jars one at a time, emptying the water from them back into the canner. 
Boiling. One of the most popular methods of sterilizing is boiling. Place bottles, spoons, nipples, lids and other equipment into a pot of water and bringing it to a rolling boil for 2 minutes. You can cover and store the equipment in a clean place (HC 2010) . Nipples tend do get sticky and unusable more quickly than with other methods
All jams, jellies, and pickled products processed less than 10 minutes should be filled into sterile empty jars. To sterilize empty jars, put them right side up on the rack in a boiling-water canner. Fill the canner and jars with hot (not boiling) water to 1 inch above the tops of the jars. Boil 10 minutes at altitudes of less than 1,000 ft. At higher elevations, boil 1 additional minute for each additional 1,000 ft. elevation. Remove and drain hot sterilized jars one at a time. 