There are many different conditions that are recognized as mental illnesses. The more common types include: 1  Anxiety disorders: People with anxiety disorders respond to certain objects or situations with fear and dread, as well as with physical signs of anxiety or panic, such as a rapid heartbeat and sweating.
Psychological Disorders List-Symptoms and Diagnosis. This psychological disorders list and directory has been abbreviated from the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition (DSM-IV). This manual is the most widely used diagnostic criteria for the classification of psychological disorders.
Complete list of psychiatric disorders and the adult symptoms of mental health disorders. Also overviews of mental illness, anxiety disorders, depression, childhood psychiatric disorders and more.
Millions of Americans live with various types of mental illness and mental health problems, such as social anxiety, obsessive compulsive disorder, drug addiction, and personality disorders. Treatment options include medication and psychotherapy.
There are more than 200 classified forms of mental illness. Some of the more common disorders are: clinical depression, bipolar disorder, dementia, schizophrenia and anxiety disorders. Symptoms may include changes in mood, personality, personal habits and/or social withdrawal.
Below are specific symptoms associated with common mental health disorders. These lists are very brief – there are many and varied symptoms that can occur depending on the disorder someone is experiencing and the severity of their illness.
There are more than 200 classified forms of mental illness. Some of the more common disorders are depression, bipolar disorder, dementia, schizophrenia and anxiety disorders. Symptoms may include changes in mood, personality, personal habits and/or social withdrawal. Mental health problems may be related to excessive stress due to a particular situation or series of events.
Sometimes symptoms of a mental health disorder appear as physical problems, such as stomach pain, back pain, headache, or other unexplained aches and pains.