For the bone to heal, your child will need a cast and may also need a sling. How long your child needs the cast depends on your child's age and rate of healing. Many children wear the cast for 4 to 8 weeks. The cast should remain dry. Key points. 1  Your child needs a cast to heal a fractured or broken forearm. 2  Your child should come to a follow-up clinic about 1 week and 2 weeks after the cast was put on. 3  Your child will need to avoid high-impact activities after the cast is taken off.
Arm Fracture (Definition). An arm fracture typically refers to a fracture of the bone in the upper arm, the humerus or of the bones in the forearm, the radius and/or the ulna. Fractures in the hand and wrist are usually not called arm fractures. Get help from a doctor now ›. 8-12 weeks: Depending on type of fracture and location and general condition of host (healthy or multiple medical problems) fracture healing is variable but most heal in 10 weeks with sufficient strength to use normally. ...Read more.
Introduction. A broken arm or wrist is usually caused by a fall onto an outstretched arm. It typically takes about six to eight weeks to heal in adults, and less time in children. Doctors refer to all breaks or cracks in bones as fractures. Go to your nearest accident and emergency (A&E) department if you think you or your child has broken a bone. The length of time it will take to heal will depend on the type of fracture, whether it's damaged the surrounding tissues, and the person's age. For example, a young child who's cracked their wrist will need to wear a cast or removable splint for just two to three weeks.
In general, small broken bones with simple fractures take about four weeks to heal in small children. In teenagers and adults, small bones — like a finger or wrist bone — with a simple fracture, will take about six weeks to heal. Larger broken bones, for example the bones in the thigh, would take a great deal longer to heal, usually six weeks to three months in the average healthy adult. The bones of a child tend to break more easily, and so it's important to be vigilant about a second injury to the broken bone. A person with a broken finger. The way in which a bone is broken may effect the amount of time it takes to heal. Wrist fractures
About the Break. A broken arm not only causes extreme pain, but it also keeps a person from using his arm for weeks and sometimes months at a time. Generally, the amount of recovery time depends on the severity of the break, the site of the break and how well the patient follows a physician's orders for treatment. 
Key points. 1  Your child needs a cast to heal a fractured or broken forearm. 2  The cast may have to stay on for 6 to 8 weeks. 3  Your child should come to a follow-up clinic about 1 week and 2 weeks after the cast was put on. 4  Your child will need to avoid high-impact activities after the cast is taken off. Key points. 1  Your child needs a cast to heal a fractured or broken forearm. 2  Your child should come to a follow-up clinic about 1 week and 2 weeks after the cast was put on. 3
Answers. Best Answer: 6 weeks is the usual amount of time for a broken arm to be in a cast. If they're taking it off tomorrow the bone is probably healed or almost healed. After having any part of your body immobilised for so long you get some muscle wastage. 
Dalia Mosseri. It takes about 6-8 weeks to heal, depending on the type of injury sustained. (Keep the finger as still as you can !!!!) When broken place the hand in ice cold water for … about 5 min.s then take it and wrap the whole hand in a soft wrap (anything that is a soft colth) . 
· just now. Report Abuse. depending on the type of fracture compound (can take longer than a break because it requires corrective surgery) hairline-anywhere from 4-weeks to 8 weeks hopefully you'll be able to get a brace or a shorter cast before then (request a brace next time you are at the doctor) good luck. 