Ingeo is generally made from corn; it is brand name of PLA which is produced by US based company called NatureWorks. Ingeo perform much like traditional plastics, but are made from annually renewable resources like corn plants and it is compostable and biodegradable. Our cutlery products and coffee lids are made from modified PLA which is called CPLA. PLA products don’t offer high heat tolerance, and they can tolerate only upto 110 F. So, we make our cutlery products including knife, spoon, fork, stirrer, testing spoon and coffee lids etc.from CPLA (modified PLA) .
PLA is very unique material since it is made from corn and not from petroleum. Regular plastics is made from petroleum while PLA is made from corn based resins which makes PLA non toxic and annually renewable resources. PLA is very environmentally friendly material since it is made from renewable resource – Corn. Plastics products may take upto thousand years to degrade while PLA products biodegrade within 3-6 months in a composting system. The PLA clear products are heat resistant to 110 degrees Fahrenheit. Our cutlery products and coffee lids are made from modified PLA which is called CPLA. PLA products don’t offer high heat tolerance, and they can tolerate only upto 110 F. So, we make our cutlery products including knife, spoon, fork, stirrer, testing spoon and coffee lids etc.from CPLA (modified PLA) .
Eco-Products offers cups, lids, cutlery, straws and containers made from a biopolymer called PLA (polylactic acid). PLA is made from starchy plants like corn, grown right here in the U.S. Starch from corn kernels is processed into a biopolymer that looks, acts, and performs like petroleum-based plastics. Our PLA products give you the option of products made from renewable resources, like corn instead of oil. Corn can be grown again and again, unlike oil which is nonrenewable. PLA plastics have the added benefit of being compostable when you are finished using them.
Polylactic acid or polylactide (PLA, Poly) is a biodegradable thermoplastic aliphatic polyester derived from renewable resources, such as corn starch (in the United States and Canada), tapioca roots, chips or starch (mostly in Asia), or sugarcane (in the rest of the world). Being able to degrade into innocuous lactic acid, PLA is used as medical implants in the form of anchors, screws, plates, pins, rods, and as a mesh. Depending on the exact type used, it breaks down inside the body within 6 months to 2 years.
Eco-Products offers cups, lids, cutlery, straws and containers made from a biopolymer called PLA (polylactic acid). We use Ingeo™ brand PLA. Ingeo™ is made from starchy plants like corn, grown right here in the U.S. Starch from corn kernels is processed into a biopolymer that looks, acts, and performs like petroleum-based plastics. 
1 PLA stands for Polylactic acid and is made from corn starch. 2  Lactic acid is made from Dextrose by fermentation. 3  Dextrose is made from corn starch, and corn starch is made from carbon dioxide and water. 4  PLA can be formed into a variety of products. 1 Regular plastic is made from petroleum that is pollutant and have toxins; while PLA is from derived from corn based resin, which is non-toxic and renewable resource. 2  Regular plastic takes approximately 400 years to degrade, leaving toxicity in the environment.
By Larry West. Polylactic acid (PLA), a plastic substitute made from fermented plant starch (usually corn) is quickly becoming a popular alternative to traditional petroleum-based plastics. Another downside of PLA is that it is typically made from genetically modified corn, at least in the United States. The largest producer of PLA in the world is NatureWorks, a subsidiary of Cargill, which is the world’s largest provider of genetically modified corn seed.
WHAT IS PLA?What is PLA?PLA stands for Polylactic acid and is made from corn starch. Lactic acid is made from Dextrose by fermentation. Dextrose is made from corn starch, and corn starch is made from carbon dioxide and water. PLA can be formed into a variety of products. Corn plastic products look and feel like traditional petroleum-based plastic, but they are biodegradable and compostable. 1 Regular plastic is made from petroleum that is pollutant and have toxins; while PLA is from derived from corn based resin, which is non-toxic and renewable resource. 2  Regular plastic takes approximately 400 years to degrade, leaving toxicity in the environment.
In 2010, PLA had the second highest consumption volume of any bioplastic of the world. The name polylactic acid does not comply with IUPAC standard nomenclature, and is potentially ambiguous or confusing, because PLA is not a polyacid (polyelectrolyte), but rather a polyester. Being able to degrade into innocuous lactic acid, PLA is used as medical implants in the form of anchors, screws, plates, pins, rods, and as a mesh. Depending on the exact type used, it breaks down inside the body within 6 months to 2 years.