Full Definition of ZYGOTE. : a cell formed by the union of two gametes; broadly: the developing individual produced from such a cell. — zy·got·ic \zī-ˈgae-ˈgä\ tik. adjective : a cell formed by the union of two gametes; broadly: the developing individual produced from such a cell. — zy·got·ic \zī-ˈgae-ˈgä\ tik. Adjective see zygote defined For-english language. Learners see zygote defined for. kids
zy·gote. n. 1. The cell that is formed by the union of two gametes, especially a fertilized ovum before cleavage. 2. The organism that develops from a zygote. zy·got′ic (-gŏt′ĭk) adj. More precisely, the cell after synapsis at the completion of fertilization until first cleavage. adj., adj zygot´ic. Development of the zygote. A, A sperm enters the ovum. B, The 23 chromosomes from the sperm mingle with the 23 chromosomes from the ovum, restoring the diploid number to 46.
Full Definition of ZYGOTE. : a cell formed by the union of two gametes; broadly: the developing individual produced from such a cell. — zy·got·ic \zī-ˈgae-ˈgä\ tik. Adjective see zygote defined For-english language. learners : a cell formed by the union of two gametes; broadly: the developing individual produced from such a cell. — zy·got·ic \zī-ˈgae-ˈgä\ tik. Adjective see zygote defined For-english language. Learners see zygote defined for. kids
zygote. the cell resulting from union of a male and a female gamete; the fertilized ovum (see also reproduction). More precisely, the cell after synapsis at the completion of fertilization until first cleavage. adj., adj zygot´ic. Development of the zygote. A, A sperm enters the ovum. B, The 23 chromosomes from the sperm mingle with the 23 chromosomes from the ovum, restoring the diploid number to 46.
In fungi, the sexual fusion of haploid cells is called karyogamy. The result of karyogamy is a diploid cell called a zygote or zygospore. This cell may then enter meiosis or mitosis depending on the life cycle of the species. In human fertilization, two 1n haploid cells—an ovum (female gamete) and a sperm cell (male gamete)—combine to form a single 2n diploid cell called the zygote.
zygote. the cell resulting from union of a male and a female gamete; the fertilized ovum (see also reproduction). More precisely, the cell after synapsis at the completion of fertilization until first cleavage. adj., adj zygot´ic. Development of the zygote. the cell resulting from union of a male and a female gamete; the fertilized ovum (see also reproduction). More precisely, the cell after synapsis at the completion of fertilization until first cleavage. adj., adj zygot´ic
A zygote (from Greek ζυγωτός zygōtos joined or yoked, from ζυγοῦν zygoun to join or to yoke), is a eukaryotic cell formed by a fertilization event between two gametes. The zygote's genome is a combination of the DNA in each gamete, and contains all of the genetic information necessary to form a new individual. In multicellular organisms, the zygote is the earliest developmental stage. In human fertilization, two 1n haploid cells—an ovum (female gamete) and a sperm cell (male gamete)—combine to form a single 2n diploid cell called the zygote.