The primal chuck is the animal’s shoulder. Since this is a well-used muscle, the chuck contains a high amount of connective tissue and is very tough. It is, however, one of the most flavorful cuts of beef. Fabricated cuts: 1  Cross rib pot roast. 2  Chuck short ribs. 3  Stew meat. 4  Ground chuck for hamburgers. A beef carcass is first divided into primal cuts. Each primal cut is then reduced into subprimal cuts. Individual portions derived from subprimal cuts are referred to as fabricated cuts.
No water, phosphates, binders, or other meat sources may be added and still be labeled as ground beef. If a ground beef label has an added label identifier such as ground round, sirloin or chuck, the lean and fat used in the product can come from only the primal included in the name. So ground round can only contain lean and fat from the round, sirloin from the sirloin, etc.
About. Pork fatback is a staple in traditional cuisine of the southern United States. As its name suggests, the cut comes from the pig's back -- a strip of about an inch thick situated between the skin and the meat. Pork fatback can be used to make lard and fried pork rinds, or it can be cut thin and wrapped around other pieces of meat or used in terrine and pate molds. Fatback is not exclusive to American recipes. Medieval Europe had many recipes using fatback, and certain foods from all over the world, like pork sausages, may use chopped fatback. Salo is a popular Eastern European use of fatback. Preparation of salo does involve smoking and curing the fatback, and often covering it with paprika
PLATE (SHORT RIBS) : What is left of the front quarter is the rib and plate. The plate being separated from the rib and is the plate is where short ribs come from. Short ribs are meaty, but also contain quite a bit of connective tissue, which is why they are best when braised. SIRLOIN TIP: Also coming from the hindquarters and the next cut of the breaking process is removing the sirloin tip. Unlike it’s name, the sirloin tip doesn’t actually come from the primal cut known as the sirloin, it comes from the round portion of the hindquarter. It is also known as a round tip steak. These steaks are good for marinating and throwing it on the bbq, braising, or using for stew meat
By convention, the beef chuck is separated from the rib primal between the 5th and 6th ribs. What this means is that it also contains a few inches of the longissimus dorsi muscle, which is the same tender muscle from which ribeye steaks are made. (Note also that each side of beef has two shanks, one in the forequarter and one in the hindquarter.) Beef shank is used in making the luxurious Italian dish osso buco. That's it for the forequarter. Next let's look at the beef primal cuts that come from
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A primal cut or cut of meat is a piece of meat initially separated from the carcass of an animal during butchering. Examples of primals include the beef round, loin, rib, and chuck or the swine ham, loin, Boston butt, and picnic. On the other hand, British sirloin is called porterhouse by Americans. Another notable example is fatback, which in Europe is an important primal cut of pork, but in North America is regarded as trimmings to be used in sausage or rendered into lard. The primal cuts may be sold complete or cut further
1: fatback. Fatback is a cut of meat from a domestic pig. It consists of the layer of adipose tissue (subcutaneous fat) under the skin of the back, with or without the skin (pork rind). Fatback is  hard fat , distinct from the visceral fat that occurs in the abdominal cavity and is called soft fat and leaf lard. Like other types of pig fat, fatback may be rendered to make a high quality lard, and is one source of salt pork.