If you are unsure, consult a dictionary. Tip. Microsoft Word will automatically accent some words that require accent marks in English, but don’t rely on it to correct them all. Step 2: Highlight the letter. Highlight the letter requiring the accent mark. Click the Insert tab, and then click on Symbol. Step 3: Scroll. Scroll through the dialogue box that appears until you have located the letter-accent mark combination you want.
Microsoft Word will automatically accent some words that require accent marks in English, but don’t rely on it to correct them all. Step 2 Highlight the letter Highlight the letter requiring the accent mark. Click the Insert tab, and then click on Symbol. Step 3 Scroll Scroll through the dialogue box that appears until you have located the letter-accent mark combination you want. Highlight it, and click Insert to add the character to your document. Then click Close to close the dialogue box. Step 4 Learn shortcuts on a PC For accent marks you use often, learn keyboard shortcuts. 
To get accented vowels on a Mac, hold down the Option key, and while holding it down, type the letter e; then release those keys and type the letter that you want the accent to appear on: Opt + e, then a = a. á + opt, e then = e. E + é, opt e = then. i i í To get accented vowels on a Mac, hold down the Option key, and while holding it down, type the letter e; then release those keys and type the letter that you want the accent to appear on: Opt + e, then a = a. á + opt, e then = e. e é
For all Macs. To get accented vowels on a Mac, hold down the Option key, and while holding it down, type the letter e; then release those keys and type the letter that you want the accent to appear on: Opt + e, then a = a. á + opt, e then = e. E + é, opt e = then. I + i, í opt = e. Then + o, o ó = opt. e then u u ú To get accented vowels on a Mac, hold down the Option key, and while holding it down, type the letter e; then release those keys and type the letter that you want the accent to appear on: Opt + e, then a = a. á + opt, e then = e. e é
Find the desired accented letter on the chart, highlight the letter, click on insert below, and the letter will appear in your text. In order to type the letter directly into the text, learn the short cut keys that appear below the chart when you highlight each letter. 
1 Open Microsoft Word. 2  Select the Insert tab on the Ribbon or click Insert in the Menu bar. 3  On the Insert tab or the Insert drop-down, select the Symbol option. 4  You may choose from the limited selection of symbols that appear or click More Symbols. 5  Select the desired symbol. 6  Click the Insert button. Inserting accented letters with the menu bar or Ribbon. 1  Open Microsoft Word. 2  Select the Insert tab on the Ribbon or click Insert in the Menu bar. 3  On the Insert tab or the Insert drop-down, select the Symbol option. 4  You may choose from the limited selection of symbols that appear or click More Symbols
Entering accents into your document can be a little tricky PC Using a word processor such as Microsoft Word Using a word processor will probably be the easiest way to enter accents with your text, not only for compositions, but also for electronic messages that you can type first and then paste it into the CUBBoard. To generate accents, you press the Option key and another key together to generate the accent, and then type the letter which contains the accent: e: é press option and type. E release both keys and type. e-a-à: E è u ù ` press (option-and type, key left hand side). top of the keyboard
The best option is to install a Spanish Keyboard in Windows. This will allow you to use accent marks in ANY program on the computer, including the desktop, file names, graphics and word processing. The layout on a Spanish Keyboard is different (that is, many symbols are in different places than they are on the English Keyboard). . For a summary of the rules for when to use an accent mark in Spanish, go here. Please get in the habit of using the computer to type accent marks and do it as you type. This is much easier and more porfessional than going back over a document and adding the marks afterwards.