During pregnancy, due to the increased renal blood flow, some additional protein may be lost in the urine. This increased protein loss should not normally be in quantities exceeding 300 mg in 24 hours. If more than 300 mg in 24 hours is found, this may signal the development of pre-eclampsia. 
Albumin is a type of protein found in large amounts in the blood. Because it is a small molecule in size, it is one of the first proteins able to pass through the kidneys into the urine when there are kidney problems. This presence of small amounts of albumin in the urine is the condition called microalbuminuria. How is the urine tested for microalbuminuria/proteinuria? You will be asked to give a urine sample. Your doctor will decide if the sample can be a random sample provided at your doctor's office or needs to be a sample collected over a certain time frame (such as over 4 hours, overnight, or for 24 hours).
Increased urine protein levels are a non-specific finding seen with a wide variety of medical conditions, ranging from totally harmless to potentially life-threatening. Common causes for proteinuria include kidney disease, high blood pressure, diabetes, drugs, infections and tumors such as multiple myeloma. Increased amounts of protein in the urine are never considered normal. However, mild proteinuria doesn't always indicate a serious disorder. Additional testing and evaluation by your health-care provider is necessary to make this determination.
Specific gravity. Normal: 1.005-1.030. Abnormal: A very high specific gravity means very concentrated urine, which may be caused by not drinking enough fluid, loss of too much fluid (excessive vomiting, sweating, or diarrhea), or substances (such as sugar or protein) in the urine. Your doctor may ask you to collect your urine for 24 hours. 1  The collection period usually starts in the morning. 2  When you first get up, urinate-but don't save this urine. 3  Write down the time that you urinated to mark the beginning of your 24-hour collection period. 4  For the next 24 hours, collect all your urine.
When your nephrons are damaged, albumin and other proteins leak into your urine. Urine dipstick tests and 24-hour urine collections check for protein in your urine. The presence of protein in your blood is abnormal. Urinary tract infections and diabetes can cause albumin to appear in your urine. Other conditions, such as heavy metal poisoning, bladder cancer, hypertension and systemic lupus erythematosus, can cause protein in the urine as well. If you have protein in your urine or elevated creatinine, you are unlikely to notice any signs or symptoms at first. Later, as kidney damage progresses, you may have edema, or swelling, nausea, fatigue and shortness of breath. Your urine may also become foamy, bloody or coffee colored.
There should only be trace amounts of urine in your protein. 0 to 8 mg/mL is the normal amount for a random sample and less than 150 mg per 24 hours. In the urine of a person with normally functioning kidneys, there should be no albumin. If there is between 30 and 300 mg per day, it is called microalbuminuria, and if it is … over 300 mg per day it is called frank albuminuria.
Although results can vary somewhat between different laboratories, the amount of protein in a random sample of urine is normally less than 8 mg/dL and for a 24-hour collection, less than 150 mg total, according to MedlinePlus. Increased amounts of protein in the urine are never considered normal. However, mild proteinuria doesn't always indicate a serious disorder. Additional testing and evaluation by your health-care provider is necessary to make this determination.
Results. A urine test checks different components of urine, a waste product made by the kidneys. The normal values listed here-called a reference range-are just a guide. These ranges vary from lab to lab, and your lab may have a different range for what's normal. Your lab report should contain the range your lab uses. Your doctor may ask you to collect your urine for 24 hours. 1  The collection period usually starts in the morning. 2  When you first get up, urinate-but don't save this urine. 3  Write down the time that you urinated to mark the beginning of your 24-hour collection period. 4  For the next 24 hours, collect all your urine.
What is the normal range of albumin in urine? In the urine of a person with normally functioning kidneys, there should be no albumin. If there is between 30 and 300 mg per day, it is called microalbuminuria, and if it is … over 300 mg per day it is called frank albuminuria. If the albumin gets to 3.0 - 3.5 g per day or more, it is nephrotic syndrome.
For example, a positive dipstick protein may be elevated due to other sources of protein, such as blood, semen, or vaginal secretions in the urine. Since it measures primarily albumin, the dipstick may occasionally be normal when significant quantities of other proteins are present in the urine. A 24-hour urine sample gives the protein excretion rate over 24 hours. It will be accurate only if all of the urine is collected.