This Office Supply Expendi-tures Businesses Incur Annually 2013 Research Report is focused on small companies’ spend-ing trends on office supplies; a company’s expenditures; type and cost of office supply expenses; print costs; and solutions for print management, control, and costs. This report exam-ines the expenses of a small business, the different types and costs of office supplies, print costs, past/present market trends of the office supply industry, and solutions for print management.
Writing utensils are common office supplies, with pens costing between $1 and $5 per pen, depending on the type of pen and ink. You can get a discount for bulk orders of many desk supplies. A box of 50 pens can cost as low as 24 cents per pen, according to the Staples website. The average monthly cost of office supplies in the U.S. is $19, according to the financial website Bundle. Your company's expenses may be higher or lower depending on the size of the company and rate of supply use.
The average cost per month for office supplies depends on the size and type of business as well as the cost of the supplies used. You can calculate your company's average monthly supply costs by multiplying the cost of each item used by the amount of each item you use per month. The average monthly cost of office supplies in the U.S. is $19, according to the financial website Bundle. Your company's expenses may be higher or lower depending on the size of the company and rate of supply use.
1 Ideal for small businesses or those requiring only occasional use, mono-digital copiers offer average print speeds of 30 to 140 ppm with paper capacities that include 100 sheets in the tray and up to 550 in the cassette. 2  Costs range from $2,300 to $16,000 and above. And it will definitely save you quite a bit of money up front. Here are the average costs for used and new copiers: 1  Midrange copiers – Used models go for $400 to $2,000, with many models available for around $750; new models start around $2,300 and go as high as $23,000.
The total consumption of paper printed for one (1) employee is estimated at 10,101 sheets yearly. On a monthly basis each employee uses nearly 842 sheets for an average business. Printer-heavy businesses (like law firms, healthcare facilities and CPA offices) incur much higher costs than those shown below. This report exam-ines the expenses of a small business, the different types and costs of office supplies, print costs, past/present market trends of the office supply industry, and solutions for print management.
There is one laser printer in the office that uses 4 toner cartridges (black, cyan, magenta, and yellow).When estimating office supply expenditures, this report has only selected a small sampling of common consumable items. Many businesses require much greater demand for office supplies than is estimated here. This report exam-ines the expenses of a small business, the different types and costs of office supplies, print costs, past/present market trends of the office supply industry, and solutions for print management.
The number of pages a single cartridge can print has a major influence on the actual cost per page you can expect from the printer. The average cost per page varies by the type of printer you use, with a monochrome laser printer offering the best cost per page, at around 1 to 2.5 cents per black-and-white page. To make it easier for you to determine the cost of printing when shopping for a printer, the International Standards Organization has established a set of guidelines that allows every cartridge to be classified with an approximate number of pages it will yield.
(see Toner Cost Per Page) This estimate can conservatively range from $127 – $508 and the yearly printing costs can observe the difference in costs for a small company’s printing and office supplies. This report exam-ines the expenses of a small business, the different types and costs of office supplies, print costs, past/present market trends of the office supply industry, and solutions for print management.
Samsung toner prices trending upward. We based our original cost-per-page numbers for the low-end Samsung ML-2955DW and the small-business Samsung ML-3712ND on estimated street prices that the vendor provided less than a year ago. Xerox acknowledges toner cost increases. The other vendor that showed noticeable increases in toner cost per page was corporate-minded Xerox. Three of its monochrome lasers that we reviewed a little over three years ago remain available today. Their cost increases since 2009 range from 5.5 percent to 19 percent.
Your company's average monthly spending on office supplies depends on how much of each item you use per month and how often each item needs to be replaced. The average monthly cost of office supplies in the U.S. is $19, according to the financial website Bundle. Your company's expenses may be higher or lower depending on the size of the company and rate of supply use.