A fertilizer or fertiliser (in British English) is any material of natural or synthetic origin (other than liming materials) that is applied to soils or to plant tissues (usually leaves) to supply one or more plant nutrients essential to the growth of plants. The use of phosphate fertilizers has also increased from 9 million tonnes per year in 1960 to 40 million tonnes per year in 2000. A maize crop yielding 6–9 tonnes of grain per hectare requires 31–50 kg of phosphate fertilizer to be applied, soybean requires 20–25 kg per hectare.
In organic chemistry, a phosphate, or organophosphate, is an ester of phosphoric acid. Of the various phosphoric acids and phosphates, organic phosphates are important in biochemistry and biogeochemistry (ecology), and inorganic phosphates are mined to obtain phosphorus for use in agriculture and industry. The phosphate ion is a polyatomic ion with the empirical formula PO 4 3− and a molar mass of 94.97 g/mol. It consists of one central phosphorus atom surrounded by four oxygen atoms in a tetrahedral arrangement.
Figure 1. The phosphorus cycle. Phosphate is taken up by plants from soils, utilized by animals that consume plants, and returned to soils as organic residues decay in soils (Figure 1) . Much of the phosphate used by living organisms becomes incorporated into organic compounds. Phosphorus (P) is an essential element classified as a macronutrient because of the relatively large amounts of P required by plants. Phosphorus is one of the three nutrients generally added to soils in fertilizers.
Phosphate rock is the raw material now used in commercial fertilizer production. Phosphate rock is extracted from the earth in many countries. Most of the phosphate rock is used for fertilizer production, with smaller amounts going to various industrial uses. It is made from two common constituents in the fertilizer industry and it is popular because of its relatively high nutrient content and its excellent physical properties. • Monoammonium phosphate (MAP) – A widely used source of P and N, it is made of two constituents common in the fertilizer industry.
Phosphorus comes from many places. You might think that the biggest sources of phosphorus are the obvious ones—sewage treatment plants, chemical factories, and the like. But in fact, identifiable sources such as these contribute less than 20% of the phosphorus in the river. But the phosphorus doesn't stay where we put it. It clings to the soil. And when the soil washes away, it carries phosphorus with it. The St. Croix River, especially Lake St. Croix, collects water from the entire basin, concentrating the phosphorus in one place.
Simply put, fertilizer combines the nutrients that plants need to grow – potassium, nitrogen, phosphorus, and sulphur– in a form they can digest. Think of it as plant food. As crops grow, they absorb, or mine, nutrients from the soil. When crops are harvested, so too are the nutrients absorbed by plants. Farmers use fertilizer to replenish the nutrients drawn from the soil, which plants need to grow. When a crop goes to market, so too does the potassium, phosphorus, and nitrogen it has absorbed
Uses: Some phosphate rock is processed to recover elemental phosphorus. Pure phosphorus is used to make chemicals for use in industry. The most important use of phosphate rock, though, is in the production of phosphate fertilizers for agriculture. Some is used to make calcium phosphate nutritional supplements for animals. Substitutes and Alternative Sources: Phosphorus is so important to life, that there is no substitute for it in agriculture. Phosphorus is a very important piece of the DNA and RNA molecules of which all life is formed. It is also important for the development of teeth and bones. The name phosphorus comes from the Greek word phosphoros, which means bringer of light. Phosphorus is mined in the form of phosphate rock.
The most common fertilizers include: • Diammonium phosphate (DAP) – DAP is the world’s most widely used P fertilizer. It is made from two common constituents in the fertilizer industry and it is popular because of its relatively high nutrient content and its excellent physical properties. • Monoammonium phosphate (MAP) – A widely used source of P and N, it is made of two constituents common in the fertilizer industry.
Maintenance of an adequate phosphate supply in the soil is essential for sustaining global food supplies. Many soils need an additional source of phosphate to supplement the native supply in order to meet this minimum requirement. Crops remove relatively large amounts of phosphate from the soil in the harvested portion. It is made from two common constituents in the fertilizer industry and it is popular because of its relatively high nutrient content and its excellent physical properties. • Monoammonium phosphate (MAP) – A widely used source of P and N, it is made of two constituents common in the fertilizer industry.
When Phosphates are Present, Algae Grows.... Phosphate is the main ingredient in fertilizer. Phosphate is plant food, and algae are plants. If you have had persistant trouble with algae, every year-and it always seems to come back, you may have a phosphate problem in your pool. 