14 Non-Dairy Foods That Are High in Calcium. If you don't eat dairy, you're not doomed to brittle bones. Fill up on these 14 calcium-rich foods that don't contain a drop of milk.
[See: How the Raw Food Diet Works .]. But avoiding dairy also comes with a warning. There are compounds in plants that bind to calcium and prevent you from absorbing it, Anding says. Although they're good sources of calcium on paper, physiologically, the amount of calcium is not so great.
Our body actually needs 300-400 mg of calcium per day, but with dairy, this means we need to consume close to the RDA to get that level with the reduced absorption rate. Other food sources are more absorbable like bone broth, dark leafy greens, fish with bones, and even carrots.
The preferred source of calcium is calcium-rich foods such as dairy products. Some people will need to take calcium supplements. The Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) for vitamins and minerals reflects how much of each vitamin or mineral most people should get each day.
Greens, sardines, almonds, and sesame seeds are all good non-dairy sources of this essential bone-building nutrient. With calcium rich foods, milk isn't a must! Sep 4, 2013. Jane Lear is a regular contributor to TakePart.
To give an idea of how many serves of dairy products or calcium containing alternatives that need to be consumed to achieve these RDAs, here are the calcium content of some common milk based products. 1  An eight ounce glass of milk contains 300mg. 2  Six ounces of yogurt has 300mg. 3  2 ounces of Swiss cheese has 530mg.
Milk and dairy products such as yogurt, cheeses, and buttermilk contain a form of calcium that your body can absorb easily. Whole milk (4% fat) is recommended for children ages 1 to 2. Adults and children over the age of 2 should drink low-fat (2% or 1%) or skim milk and other dairy products.
In order to get enough calcium from your non-dairy diet, it is important to choose calcium-rich foods that are easily absorbed. There are a number of plant-based foods to choose from, including many green leafy vegetables like broccoli, bok choy, Chinese cabbage, and kale.
Luckily, there's a range of non-dairy foods that offer the 1,000 to 1,300 milligrams of calcium the U.S. Department of Agriculture recommends you get daily.
Not all calcium that we consume is absorbed and the amount we need to consume daily varies depending on the source of the calcium. For instance, about 32-33% of the calcium from dairy products is absorbed.