Ornithology is a branch of zoology that concerns the study of birds. Etymologically, the word ornithology derives from the ancient Greek ὄρνις ornis (bird) and λόγος logos (rationale or explanation). Several aspects of ornithology differ from related disciplines, due partly to the high visibility and the aesthetic appeal of birds. Alexander Wilson composed a nine-volume work, American Ornithology, published 1808-14—the first such record of North American birds, significantly predating Audubon. In the early 19th century, Lewis and Clark studied and identified many birds in the western United States.
Upupiformes. Ornithology (from Greek ornitha = chicken and logos = word/science) is a branch of Zoology or Biology concerned with the scientific study of birds, creatures belonging to class Aves. Aristotle was perhaps the first person who wrote on ornithology and mentions more than 170 birds. His scientific classification system, with some modification is still being used. The science of Ornithology includes the study of classification of birds, evolution, body structure, habits, song, flight and breeding behavior. Birds are generally divided into two major groups.
Ornithologists use tags to track birds. Ornithologists observe birds in the field. Ornithologists may study the process by which birds evolved from dinosaurs. Two birds, the subject of study of an ornithologist. While there is no specialized training to become an ornithologist, an aspiring scientist should have a good working knowledge of math, science, and scientific methods of observation.
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. An ornithologist is a person who makes a hobby or living by participating in scientific studies of birds. While there are no specific training guidelines to become one, many people who study birds have degrees in related scientific fields, such as biology, ecology, or genetics. While there is no specialized training to become an ornithologist, an aspiring scientist should have a good working knowledge of math, science, and scientific methods of observation.
My understanding is that an ornithologist is someone with an advanced degree in biology with an emphasis on birds. When I explained that to some of my new coworkers, one responded with, “By your definition, I’m an ornithologist, but you know way more about birds than I do.”. As the company has been introducing me to the rest of the staff and clients, a description of my talents caught my attention. In one document, I was referred to as a “self-taught ornithologist.”. I am not an ornithologist. At all. I’ve never claimed to be one. But it started an interesting debate about who exactly can call themselves an ornithologist. There really is no clear definition. Most dictionaries describe ornithology as a branch of zoology dealing with birds
James Bond (January 4, 1900 – February 14, 1989) was a leading American ornithologist, an expert on the birds of the Caribbean. His name was appropriated by writer Ian Fleming for his fictional spy, James Bond. Bond was originally educated at St. Paul's School in Concord, New Hampshire, but after the death of his mother he moved with his father to England in 1914. There he studied at Harrow and later Trinity College, Cambridge, where he obtained a B.A. in 1922 and was the sole American member of the Pitt Club.
The science of ornithology has a long history and studies on birds have helped develop several key concepts in evolution, behaviour and ecology such as the definition of species, the process of speciation, instinct, learning, ecological niches, guilds, island biogeography, phylogeography and conservation. Alexander Wilson composed a nine-volume work, American Ornithology, published 1808-14—the first such record of North American birds, significantly predating Audubon. In the early 19th century, Lewis and Clark studied and identified many birds in the western United States.