My name is Mariah and my mom named me that because it means the wind or the sea. loveiest girl in the world :). mariah is a crazy person......... but luvable and smart at da same time. 
Origin of the name Mariah: Variant of the Hebrew Moriya (teacher). The name is borrowed from that of a hill from which Abraham prepared to offer Isaac up as a sacrifice. It is a holy place now covered by the Muslim Kubbet es-Sakrah (the Dome of the Rock). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. 
Mariah is a very prominent first name for women (#1325 out of 4276, Top 31%) but an unusual surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Mariah for girls. Mariah reached its top position of #62 in the U.S. in the year 1998, and is currently at #136. Mariah /mari-ah/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced ma-RYE-ah. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Mariah is star of the sea. Variant of Maria, from Mary. This version has greatly increased in popularity, due to singer Mariah Carey
Mariah is an English given name, a variant on the names Maria and Mary. Mariah is usually pronounced mə-RIE-ə, which reflects the older English pronunciation of Maria. The meaning and origin of Mariah is unknown as the meaning for Mary is obscured, but popular theories suggest wished for child and rebelliousness.. The name was further popularized in the 1990s by the singer Mariah Carey. The name Mariah appeared as early as 1550 in Great Britain
English Meaning: The name Mariah is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Mariah is: Bitter. French Meaning: The name Mariah is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Mariah is: Bitter. American Meaning: The name Mariah is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Mariah is: Bitter.
Share to: The name Mariah is possibly a variant of Mary which can mean several things, including sea of bitterness, rebelliousness, and wished for child. It could also come form a … n Egyptian name, perhaps derived in part from Mary beloved or my love.. 
View the Mariah Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Mariah has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Mariah to other names. Mariah is a variant spelling of Maria. Mariah has the diminutives (nicknames) Mareike, Mariel, Mariele, Mariella, Maryla, Marzena, Meike, Mia, Mimi, Mitzi, My. Mariah is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Ma-ri-ah. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 136 in baby name popularity for girls with 2383 occurrences.
[ 3 syll. ma-riah, mar-i- ah ] The baby girl name Mariah is pronounced Maa-R IY Yaa- †. Mariah's origin is Hebrew, and its use, English. Mariah is a variant spelling of Maria in the English language. Mariah is also a variant of Mary (English). Mariah is popular as a baby name for girls. The name's popularity rose from the 1970s up to the 1990s. At the modest height of its usage in 1996, 0.284% of baby girls were given the name Mariah. 
Baby names meanings search results: The name Mariah is a baby girl name. The name Mariah comes from the English origin. In English The meaning of the name Mariah is: Variant of the name Mary.