There is an average life span of a butterfly-it is usually about one month. Although the smallest butterflies that you can usually spot feasting on the flowers in your front yard will usually only live about one week. Mourning Cloaks, some tropical Heliconians, and Monarchs are some of the only butterflies that have an average life span of about nine months. There is also a difference between how long a butterfly would live if it was not living in the wild and how long it will actually live. Butterflies in the wild are exposed to many predators like birds and other insects, so may not live as long as they are capable of.
Description. The tiger swallowtail is a large butterfly. On average, the length is 3 1/2 to 4 1/2 inches and the wingspan is 4 to 5 inches. Both species (males and females) are yellow and black with striped markings, resembling a tiger. However, the female eastern butterfly is the only one that has two forms
For example, if the butterfly is of the smaller version it will probably not live as long, but if it is a larger butterfly, it will live longer. Now of course the size of the butterfly is not going to be the only factor of how long a butterfly will live, but does attribute to it. There is also a difference between how long a butterfly would live if it was not living in the wild and how long it will actually live. Butterflies in the wild are exposed to many predators like birds and other insects, so may not live as long as they are capable of.
How long butterflies live depends on many things and varies greatly. It depends on the size of the butterfly, the species of the butterfly, where it lives, and what time of year it became an adult. There is also a difference between how long a butterfly would live if it was not living in the wild and how long it will actually live. Butterflies in the wild are exposed to many predators like birds and other insects, so may not live as long as they are capable of.
Raising a Black Swallowtail butterfly indoors is fun, easy, and educational. Black Swallowtail butterflies are great to raise indoors for several reasons including abundance, plentiful food source, attractive and interesting caterpillars, and of course beautiful butterflies. 
Different butterfly species have different adult potential life spans. By marking butterflies then recapturing or sighting them later scientists gain information on how long butterflies can live. An average butterfly species has an adult life span of 2 weeks or less. For example one butterfly studied in Costa Rica had a life expectancy of about 2 days, and live 10 days at the most. No adult butterfly can live more than a year. Monarchs and Swallowtails may live about a month in the summer, but the Monarchs that migrate to Mexico or the California coast may live up to 6 months. Some long-lived tropical butterflies live up to 6 months as adults. The long-life champion is a tiny yucca moth that feeds on Banana Yucca (Yucca baccata)
Nonetheless, many butterflies and moths have a short life span. Some moths can only survive for few days whereas some butterfly species live for up to couple of weeks. For many species, it is the climate that dictates the lifespan. Butterflies that hibernate as adults typically have a long life span, apart from the hibernation period. Mourning Cloak is a typical hibernator develops in August and it becomes active in the month of October at low altitudes on the south coast.