Amelia is a very prominent first name for females (#331 out of 4276, Top 8%) and a slightly less prominent surname for all people (#112365 out of 150436, Top 75%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Amelia for girls. Amelia reached its top rank of #15 in the U.S. in the year 2014. Blend of two medieval names: the Latin Emilia (see Emily) and the Latin German Amalia, meaning work. An 18th-century Princess Amelia brought the name to Britain.
Amelia is a female given name. It is a variant of Amalia, derived from the Germanic word amal meaning 'work', 'industrious' and 'fertile'. The variant form Amelie is derived from the French equivalent, Amelie. Amélie diminutive forms Include, Amy, Emma milly And. mel
The name Amelia is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Amelia is: Industrious. Striving. Latin Meaning: The name Amelia is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Amelia is: Industrious. Striving. German Meaning: The name Amelia is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Amelia is: From the Old German Amalburga, meaning labour and the Latin Aemilia. 
[ 3 syll. a-me-lia, am-el-ia ] The baby girl name Amelia is pronounced in English as ah-M IY L-Yah or ah-M IY-Liy-ah or in German as aa-M EH-Liy-aa †. Amelia has its origins in the Gothic and Latin languages, and it is used largely in English, German, Dutch, Italian, Latin, and Spanish. Amelia is very popular as a baby name for girls, and it is also regarded as trendy. The name's popularity has been growing since the 1960s. Its usage peaked modestly in 2012 with 0.374% of baby girls being named Amelia.
Amelia is a female given name. It is a variant of Amalia, derived from the Germanic word amal meaning 'work', 'industrious' and 'fertile'. The variant form Amelie is derived from the French equivalent, Amelie. amélie It is a variant of Amalia, derived from the Germanic word amal meaning 'work', 'industrious' and 'fertile'. The variant form Amelie is derived from the French equivalent, Amelie. Amélie diminutive forms Include, Amy, Emma milly And. mel
Amelia /ame-lia/ [4 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced a-MEEL-yah. It is of Latin and Old German origin, and the meaning of Amelia is rival, eager work. Blend of two medieval names: the Latin Emilia (see Emily) and the Latin German Amalia, meaning work. An 18th-century Princess Amelia brought the name to Britain.
Meanings and history of the name Amelia : | Edit. Amelia means industrious, hard working. My mother also thought it was nice because of the word ameliorate from the Latin ad, to, + melior, better. It is also a medical term meaning congenital absence of one or more limbs from the Greek a-, not, + melos, limb. Origin of the name Amelia: An English variant of the Germanic Amalia, which is derived from amal (work). Alternatively, it may be a variant of Emilia (rival). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Notes: Amelia is a name with Latin origins. The meaning of the name Amelia is to strive, to excel, or to rival. Amelia originally comes from the name Aemilia. Common variations of the name include Emilia, Amilya, and Amilia. Amelie is the French version of the name Amelia.