LOCATION AND SIZE. Iraq is located in the Middle East, between Iran and Saudi Arabia. Iraq is also bordered by Jordan and Syria to the west, Kuwait to the south, and Turkey to the north. A very small sliver of the Persian Gulf (58 kilometers, or 36.04 miles) abuts Iraq on its southeast border. With an area of 437,072 square kilometers (168,753 square miles), Iraq is slightly more than twice the size of Idaho. Iraq's capital city, Baghdad, is located in the center of the country. Other major cities include al-Basra in the south and Mosul in the north
Iraq is quite known country that remains in news due to its rich petroleum reserve and war; however, the Iraq location map clearly shows the presence of Iraq on the world map. As shown on the map, Iraq is a western Asian country and part of the Middle East country as well. 
Baghdad eclipsed Ctesiphon, the capital of the Persian Empire, which was located some 30 km (19 mi) to the southeast. Today, all that remains of Ctesiphon is the shrine town of Salman Pak, just to the south of Greater Baghdad. Ctesiphon itself had replaced and absorbed Seleucia, the first capital of the Seleucid Empire. The Al-Kādhimiya Mosque is a shrine that is located in the Kādhimayn suburb of Baghdad, Iraq. It contains the tombs of the seventh Twelver Shīa Imām Musa al-Kadhim and the ninth Twelver Shīa Imām Muhammad at-Taqī al-Jawād.
Where is Baghdad Located. Share |. The map showing location map of Baghdad in Iraq. The city was founded 8th century back and in short period of time, it became an important commercial and cultural center for the Islam World in Arab region. Furthermore, it was started to considering as center of academic institutions or House of Wisdom.
Iraq is a country with a medium population which is located in the continent/region of Asia. Countries near Iraq include Syria, Kuwait, Lebanon and Jordan. 
Baghdad is the capital of the country of Iraq, which is located on the continent of Asia, and more specifically, the middle east. 
Babylon's Past Glory. Babylon was situated on the Euphrates River, about 50 miles south of modern Baghdad, the capital of Iraq. Baghdad is located on the Tigris River, approximately 40 miles east of the Euphrates. The Tower of Babel was built there and Hammurabi, the great lawgiver, reigned there in the nineteenth century before Christ. It was from Ur in Babylonia that God called Abraham to go into a land that he would show him. 
Home Iraq. As shown in the given Baghdad location map that Baghdad is located beside the Tigris River in the central-west part of Iraq. Baghdad is the largest and capital city of Iraq. Share |. The map showing location map of Baghdad in Iraq. The city was founded 8th century back and in short period of time, it became an important commercial and cultural center for the Islam World in Arab region. Furthermore, it was started to considering as center of academic institutions or House of Wisdom.
Where is Baghdad in Baghdād, Iraq Located? Baghdad is a city/town with a very large population in the state/region of Baghdād, Iraq which is located in the continent/region of Asia. Cities, towns and places near Baghdad include Bagdad, An Nīl, Bab ash Shaikh and Bāb ash Shaykh. The closest major cities include Kirkuk, Kermanshah, Irbil and Sanandaj. 
Satellite view is showing Baghdad, largest city and the capital of Iraq located on the Tigris River. Baghdad has a population of about 7 million inhabitants living in the metropolitan area. Just zoom in (+) to see the Monument of the Unknown Soldier, south-east of Zawra Park. The map shows a city map of Baghdad with expressways, main roads and streets, Baghdad International Airport (IATA code: BGW) is located about 16 km (10 miles) west of downtown Baghdad.