Today, oboes are played in bands, orchestras, and smaller woodwind ensembles. Oboes are usually made of rosewood or African blackwood (also known as grenadilla), but can also be made of ebonite, plastic, or even metal. The oboe is often featured as a solo instrument in bands and orchestras. The shawm, a one-piece instrument made of boxwood, used a double reed made of cane. Its sound was louder and more shrill than the modern oboe, but its tone was very similar. Shawms came in various sizes and were the main reed instruments in medieval bands. The oboe emerged in the French courts around 1650.
Order Form. The material from which the oboe is made, the age of the instrument, its mechanical condition, your playing environment, frequency of use, price, resale value, your level of accomplishment, .... these are just some of the many factors to consider when choosing the oboe that is right for you. In evaluating the wood vs. plastic aspect of an oboe, be advised that some wooden oboes have plastic liners in the top joint, i.e. the sound is made within the plastic liner, even though the outside of the oboe is wood, like a very thick veneer.
An oboe can be used in several different ways. For one, it can be used to summon undead beings with its horrible farting sound (see necromancy). The oboe, being made of grenadilla or similar rosewoods, can also be used as a hollow shortsword for cutting down thy enemies. 
The oboe is made of ebony. Most oboes are wooden, but some are black plastic. Wooden oboes cost up to double the amount of plastic ones. Other woods and other materials could be used, but African blackwood has very good tonal qualities. It is used not only for oboes, but also for clarinets, pipes of different s … orts of bagpipes, and other instruments.
The body of the oboe is made out of rosewood or grenadilla wood, mostly grenadilla. Although, you can buy oboes that are all plastic or that have a plastic top joint. The keys are silver plated. Oboes are either made of Grenadilla wood (and African blackwood) or Plastic. Plastic is m … uch cheaper but as you could probably guess the Grenadilla oboes have a much better sound. 4 people found this useful.
The Akademiemodel Wiener Oboe, first developed in the late 19th century by Josef Hajek from earlier instruments by C. T. Golde of Dresden (1803–73), is now made by several makers such as Andre André, Constantinides Karl, Rado Guntram, Wolf Christian rauch And. yamaha A modern oboe with the full conservatoire (conservatory in the US) or Gillet key system has 45 pieces of keywork, with the possible additions of a third octave key and alternate (left little finger) F-or C-key. The keys are usually made of nickel silver, and are silver-or occasionally gold-plated.
Oboes /ˈoʊboʊ/ OH-boh are a family of double reed woodwind musical instruments. The most common oboe plays in the treble or soprano range. Oboes are usually made of wood, but there are also oboes made of synthetic materials. A soprano oboe measures roughly 65 cm (25 1⁄2 in) long, with metal keys, a conical bore and a flared bell. A modern oboe with the full conservatoire (conservatory in the US) or Gillet key system has 45 pieces of keywork, with the possible additions of a third octave key and alternate (left little finger) F-or C-key. The keys are usually made of nickel silver, and are silver-or occasionally gold-plated.
The modern standard oboe is most commonly made from grenadilla, also known as African blackwood, though some manufacturers also make oboes out of other members of the genus Dalbergia, which includes cocobolo, rosewood, and violetwood (also known as kingwood). Ebony (genus Diospyros) has also been used. A modern oboe with the full conservatoire (conservatory in the US) or Gillet key system has 45 pieces of keywork, with the possible additions of a third octave key and alternate (left little finger) F-or C-key. The keys are usually made of nickel silver, and are silver-or occasionally gold-plated.