, GFI VIPRE Internet Security 2012 ($49.95, direct) looks almost identical to the antivirus. However, it fills in that blank with a firewall panel and also adds spam filtering and phishing protection. The antispam component is the best I've found in any suite so far. 
VIPRE Internet Security comes with the benefits of antivirus and anti-spyware software plus an integrated firewall. And it doesn’t slow down your PC like other antivirus software. VIPRE Internet Security provides spam and web filtering for safe internet and email at home or on the go. You deserve peace of mind – order VIPRE Internet Security with integrated firewall today!
VIPRE detected and removed 97% of malware threats it came up against. No software is perfect, but in a world with never-ending virus and other malware threats, 97% is still excellent. On top of that, for the fifth year in a row, VIPRE Internet Security 2016 is the only software to score 100% in our firewall tests. (If you're a laptop or WiFi user, a software firewall is especially important since it can help keep the bad guys out even if they don't trigger alerts by your antivirus defenses.)
Webroot SecureAnywhere Internet Security Plus (2015) also offers five licenses for the same price, while five licenses for Symantec Norton Security cost $10 more. You can also buy a lifetime Vipre license for $99.99; this license gets you all updates for the lifetime of a single PC. View all 11 photos in gallery. 
VIPRE Internet Security 2016 has all the power of VIPRE Antivirus, plus an excellent firewall and other protection features. In today's world, basic antivirus just isn't enough. While VIPRE Antivirus is still an excellent antivirus product, maximum protection with VIPRE Internet Security is a must in our book. No software is perfect, but in a world with never-ending virus and other malware threats, 97% is still excellent. On top of that, for the fifth year in a row, VIPRE Internet Security 2016 is the only software to score 100% in our firewall tests.
Price Details. VIPRE Antivirus by ThreatTrack Security, Inc. costs $39.99 for a licensing period of 12 months, which is about average for all antivirus software. A free trial is available to try out the product and determine if it's right for your security needs. 
In a crowded field of Internet Security Suites with very different capabilities, VIPRE Internet Security 2016 is unique. As you'd expect, technologically it's an excellent product that does what it's supposed to: keep viruses and other malware off your PC. What makes it different is its ease-of-use and support. No software is perfect, but in a world with never-ending virus and other malware threats, 97% is still excellent. On top of that, for the fifth year in a row, VIPRE Internet Security 2016 is the only software to score 100% in our firewall tests.
To run VIPRE Internet Security effectively, you need a PC-compatible computer with at least 512 MB of RAM that’s running 32- or 64-bit versions of any of the following Windows versions: VIPRE Internet Security provides spam and web filtering for safe internet and email at home or on the go. You deserve peace of mind – order VIPRE Internet Security with integrated firewall today!
We take protecting your PC very seriously, so we make. it as easy as possible for you to choose the best antivirus. protection for you. Compare features of VIPRE Antivirus 2016. and VIPRE Internet Security 2016 to determine the level. of protection you want. We're here to help! Contact the friendly and knowledgeable security experts on VIPRE's tech support team by email, chat or phone for step-by-step help downloading and managing your VIPRE subscription-at no additional charge.
Overview. VIPRE Internet Security 2015 is the award-winning antivirus software that includes a firewall, spam filter and bad website blocking into one powerful package of internet security solutions for complete protection against malware. 