Introduction. The previous chapter mentioned that different types of microorganisms interact with human bodies on a regular basis. They can be harmless, harmful or beneficial. Harmful microorganims are also called pathogenic. This chapter looks at disease-causing bacteria and viruses. Bioterrorism is the deliberate use of microorganisms, or their toxins, to cause death or disease. Biological and chemical agents that could be used include anthrax, small pox, West Nile virus and cholera.
Some pathogenic bacteria cause disease under certain conditions, such entry through the skin via a cut, through sexual activity or an compromised immune function. Streptococcus and Staphylococcus are part of the normal skin microbiota and typically reside on healthy skin or in the nasopharangeal region. 1 These pathogenic species are usually distinct from the usually harmless bacteria of the normal gut flora. 2  But a different strain of the same species may be pathogenic.
Pathogenic Organisms. When it comes to the food supply, pathogenic organisms can be introduced in a number of different ways. Common vectors include water, soil, waste or fecal matter, humans and animals. The ubiquity of pathogenic organisms leaves us open to developing foodborne illness, chronic conditions or deadly diseases. For these reasons, the study and control of pathogenic organisms comprises a large part of our food safety systems.
Harmful bacteria that cause bacterial infections and disease are called pathogenic bacteria. Bacterial diseases occur when pathogenic bacteria get into the body and begin to reproduce and crowd out healthy bacteria, or to grow in tissues that are normally sterile. Harmful bacteria may also emit toxins that damage the body. Common pathogenic bacteria and the types of bacterial diseases they cause include: Escherichia coli and Salmonella cause food poisoning. Helicobacter pylori cause gastritis and ulcers. Neisseria gonorrhoeae causes the sexually transmitted disease gonorrhea.
Microorganisms can be, according to their characteristics, divided into several groups: 1  bacteria, viruses, certain fungi and parasites. 2  pathogenic (capable of causing disease), non-pathogenic, and opportunistic (causing disease when they have an opportunity, like in people with low immune system). Examples of bacteria pathogenic for a human are: 1  Staphylococcus aureus, causing skin infections, pneumonia, infection of the heart valves, etc. 2  Streptococcus pyogenes, causing “strep throat”, cellulitis, etc. 3  Neisseria gonorrheae, causing gonorrhea.
Although most bacteria are harmless or often beneficial, several are pathogenic. One of the bacterial diseases with the highest disease burden is tuberculosis, caused by the bacterium Mycobacterium tuberculosis, which kills about 2 million people a year, mostly in sub-Saharan Africa. 1 These pathogenic species are usually distinct from the usually harmless bacteria of the normal gut flora. 2  But a different strain of the same species may b
Invasion and multiplication of pathogenic microorganisms in the body is called an infection. When we are infected by pathogens we become sick, which means that our bodies stop functioning properly. Infectious agents, such as bacteria, a virus, fungi or protozoa cause communicable diseases. Bioterrorism is the deliberate use of microorganisms, or their toxins, to cause death or disease. Biological and chemical agents that could be used include anthrax, small pox, West Nile virus and cholera.
The definition of a pathogenic organism is an organism capable of causing disease in its host. A human pathogen is capable of causing illness in humans. Common examples of pathogenic organisms include specific strains of bacteria like Salmonella, Listeria and E. coli, and viruses such as Cryptosporidium. Common vectors include water, soil, waste or fecal matter, humans and animals. The ubiquity of pathogenic organisms leaves us open to developing foodborne illness, chronic conditions or deadly diseases. For these reasons, the study and control of pathogenic organisms comprises a large part of our food safety systems.
Although the vast majority of bacteria are harmless or beneficial, a few pathogenic bacteria can cause infectious diseases. There are several substrates including pathways where the pathogens can invade a host. The principal pathways have different episodic time frames, but soil contamination has the longest or most persistent potential for harboring a pathogen. Diseases caused by organisms in humans are known as pathogenic diseases.
Microorganisms, like certain bacteria and yeasts, living on the human skin or in the nose, mouth, throat, small and large intestine and vagina, are part of the normal human flora; they prevent overgrowth of harmful microorganisms. Some of these microbes, when overgrow, may become pathogenic, though. Examples of bacteria pathogenic for a human are: 1  Staphylococcus aureus, causing skin infections, pneumonia, infection of the heart valves, etc. 2  Streptococcus pyogenes, causing “strep throat”, cellulitis, etc. 3  Neisseria gonorrheae, causing gonorrhea.