Black Sea. Black Sea (Karadeniz in Turkish) lies to the north of Turkey, bordering with two regions; Marmara and Black Sea. Besides Turkey, other countries that circle the Black Sea are; Bulgaria, Romania, Russia, Ukraine, and Georgia. It's connected to the Sea of Marmara with the Bosphorus Strait in the southwest
Bosphorus or Bosporus (βόσπορος) is the narrow strait between the Black Sea and the Sea of Marmara. Bosphorus, seen from Topkapi. The Bosphorus is 32 kilometer long and, at its narrowest point, 550 meter wide. Together with the Hellespont, which connects the Sea of Marmara with the Aegean Sea, the Bosphorus is often called The Straits. From a geological point of view, the zone is notoriously active.
Bosporus Strait. The Bosporus Strait (or Bosphorus) connects the Black Sea to the Sea of Marmara. It also separates Asian Turkey from European Turkey (Trace), thus it separates the two continents. Bordered on both sides by the massive city of Istanbul, the strait is one of the planet's most strategic waterways. 
1 The Bosphorus (also spelled Bosporus; Turkish: Boğazici boğaziçi İstanbul Istanbul,  Boğazı Istanbul), strait about 30 (kilometers 19) mi long and only 700 (2,300 2300) ft, wide connects The sea Of marmara with The Black sea in the.  north The Turkish Straits have been governed since 1936 by the Montreux Convention. 1 
Like the Bosphorus, it separates Europe (the Gallipoli peninsula) from the mainland of Asia (Anatolia). The strait is an international waterway, and together with the Sea of Marmara and the Bosporus, the Dardanelles connects the Black Sea to the Mediterranean Sea. The Çanakkale çanakkale Suspension bridge has been, planned Connecting (sarıcay sarıçay a Çanakkale Of) canakkale çanakkale Province on the Asian side to Kilitbahir on. the european side
Sea Of Marmara. The Sea of Marmara, a northeastern extension of the Mediterranean Sea, separates Asian Turkey from European Turkey (Trace), thus it separates the two continents. Bordered completely by Turkey, it connects to the Aegean Sea via the Dardanelles Strait, and to the Black Sea through the Bosporus Strait
Aegean Sea (Ege Denizi in Turkish) is a part of Mediterranean Sea lying between Turkey and Greece. There is Mediterranean Sea to the south, Greek Peninsula to the west, Anatolia and part of Thrace to the east. It's connected to the Sea of Marmara by Dardanelles Strait to the northeast. Black Sea (Karadeniz in Turkish) lies to the north of Turkey, bordering with two regions; Marmara and Black Sea. Besides Turkey, other countries that circle the Black Sea are; Bulgaria, Romania, Russia, Ukraine, and Georgia. It's connected to the Sea of Marmara with the Bosphorus Strait in the southwe
Bosphorus is a natural strait connecting the Black Sea to the Sea of Marmara, thus being a very strategic waterway. It was a river in the valley during the Tertiary period of the continents, which was drowned by the sea at the end of this period. Bosphorus in Turkish is known as Bogazici, meaning inner strait. Since the ancient times it held always an important role because of its strategic location, being the only passage from the Black Sea into the Mediterranean, along with the Dardanelles strait.