Palpebral – This adjective referring to the eyelids is from the Latin word for eyelid, palpebra. That word, in turn, is derived from the Ltin verb palpitare meaning to quiver or throb. The eyelids are sometimes known for their fluttering. Tegmen is from the Latin verb tego, tegere to cover or shelter. Hence tegmen is the word for roof. Tympani is the possessive form of the Latin noun tympanum meaning a drum. So, the whole phrase just means the roof of the (ear) drum.
Petrous – This adjective is derived from the Latin word for rock “petra”. It is applied to a part of the temporal bone that is particularly hard and rock-like. You may not have realized that the word petroleum has the same word as one of its roots. Tegmen is from the Latin verb tego, tegere to cover or shelter. Hence tegmen is the word for roof. Tympani is the possessive form of the Latin noun tympanum meaning a drum. So, the whole phrase just means the roof of the (ear) drum.
The Greek word often translated “ to persuade :” πείθω [ peitho ] . We are most interested here in the passages in which the sense of “to persuade” seems most appropriate. This sense is not commonly found in the Old Testament, but it occurs frequently in the New, particularly in the Book of Acts. 
The original Greek word for the noun baptism is: 908 βαπτισμα baptisma; from 907; baptism. The original Greek word for the verbs baptize, baptized, baptizest, baptizeth, and baptizing is: 907 βαπτιζω baptizo; from a derivative of 911; to make whelmed (i.e., fully wet). Each of these two words, baptisma and baptizo are derived from the following word: 911 βαπτω bapto; a primary verb; to whelm, i.e., cover wholly with a fluid. So, according to the original Greek text of the New Testament, to baptize means to immerse (i.e., to dunk). In spite of what this word means, there are many groups who either sprinkle or pour when they baptize.. This is simply incorrect.
1 The word Islam itself, meaning submission to God, derives from the Arabic root word salama, which means peace. 2  This process was called retting (a name which, unsurprisingly, derives from the same root as rot). 3  Similarly, dishevelled comes from the Old French deschevele deschevelé and was not derived from a word.  shevelled 
Pistevo comes from the Greek noun pistis which means: persuasion, i.e., credence; moral conviction (of religious truth, or the truthfulness of God or a religious teacher), especially reliance upon Christ for salvation; the system of religious (Gospel) truth itself; assurance, belief, believe, faith. Pistevo is a good example where a word for word translation that does not do justice to the true meaning of passages in the Bible. What is normally conveyed by this rich language gets lost, and without careful study, the word of God becomes simplified.
The Greek forms are generally in their true root form; i.e., a noun or verb derived from an earlier form will appear under the earlier form. The classical transliteration as described above is used for both the Citation form and the Root form. 
The English word crucial (1706, meaning cross-shaped) derives from the French crucial, which is actually a medical term for the ligaments of the knee, which cross each other. … This came to us from the Latin crux, meaning cross. The word addict is from Latin in the 1530s. It originally meant to deliver, award, yield; give assent, make over, sell, figuratively to devote, consecrate; sacrifice, sel … l out, betray.. Please see the related link below.
Latinized form of the Greek name ευθυμιος (Euthymios) which meant in good spirits, derived from the word ευθυμος (euthymos) , which was composed of the elements ευ (eu) good and θυμος (thymos) soul, spirit ... From an ancient Greek name which was derived from the name of the Greek goddess ARTEMIS. ASKLEPIADES ασκληπιαδης m Ancient Greek. Ancient Greek personal name which was derived from the name of the Greek god ASKLEPIOS ...