(November 2007). Immunodeficiency (or immune deficiency) is a state in which the immune system 's ability to fight infectious disease is compromised or entirely absent. 
Immune deficiency conditions occur when the immune system is unable to do its job. Immune deficiency conditions can be present at birth as a result of genetic defects in any of the components of the immune system. Such conditions are called primary immune deficiencies. Immune deficiencies can also be acquired as a result of aging, diabetes, infections, cancer treatments, or medications. The immune system is composed of multiple types of cells, tissues, organs and proteins. The primary function of the immune system is to distinguish between self and non-self (foreign). When something that is non-self, or foreign, is encountered, the immune system attacks it to help prevent infection or other injury.
Many primary immunodeficiency disorders are inherited — passed down from one or both parents. Problems in the DNA — the genetic code that acts as a blueprint for producing the cells that make up the human body — cause many of the immune system defects in primary immunodeficiency. There are numerous types of primary immunodeficiency disorders.
Or it may be present from birth -- a genetic disorder known as primary immune deficiency. Examples include: Severe combined immune deficiency (SCID). A genetic condition causing severe impairment in multiple areas of the immune system. Babies with SCID die from overwhelming infections, usually before reaching age 1. Bone marrow transplant can cure some cases of SCID. Common variable immune deficiency (CVID). 
The following medical conditions are some of the possible causes of Immune deficiency. There are likely to be other possible causes, so ask your doctor about your symptoms. 1  Primary immune deficiency. 2  Other types of immune deficiency. 3  Cancer patients (type of Immune deficiency conditions) - chemotherapy can cause immune deficiency. 4  Severe emotional disorders. Other medical conditions listed in the Disease Database as possible causes of Immune deficiency as a symptom include: 1  Acute lymphoblastic leukemia. 2  Acute myeloid leukemia. 3  Adenosine deaminase deficiency. 4  Alemtuzumab. 5  Anakinra. 6  Ataxia telangiectasia. 7  Atypical mycobacteriosis, familial. 8  Autoimmune polyendocrine syndrome type 1.
AIDS (Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome) is the final and most serious stage of HIV disease, which causes severe damage to the immune system. The Centers for Disease Control has defined AIDS as beginning when a person with HIV infection has a CD4 cell (also called t-cell, a type of immune cell) count below 200. 
Common variable immune deficiency (CVID) is a disorder that impairs the immune system. People with CVID are highly susceptible to infection from foreign invaders such as bacteria, or more rarely, viruses and often develop recurrent infections, particularly in the lungs, sinuses, and ears. 
Immune system disorders cause abnormally low activity or over activity of the immune system. In cases of immune system over activity, the body attacks and damages its own tissues (autoimmune diseases). Immune deficiency diseases decrease the body's ability to fight invaders, causing vulnerability to infections.