Summer. During June to September, there is plenty of sunshine, for an average of 11 hours of sunshine per day in July. Temperatures vary from high 20s to low 30s during the day, settling at an average of 26°C in June. The climate in Ibiza is Mediterranean with long hot and dry summers and mild winters. The summers are glorious in Ibiza and this helps make the island famous for its seasonal partying. The summer season starts from June and lasts until September and reaches a maximum temperature of 29°C between July and August.
Autumn lasts from October to November, with October experiencing the wettest weather in Ibiza. Winter in Ibiza is mild and lasts from December to February. The average temperature in Ibiza during summer ranges from 18 to 30°C (64 to 86°F). Summer is also the driest time of year in Ibiza with less than ten days of rain throughout all of the summer months. Winter temperatures in Ibiza drop to between 8 and 19°C (46 to 66°F). Ibiza’s Mediterranean climate means that the island enjoys perfect beach and party weather in Summer, while average winter temperatures dip to a mild 11 degrees Celsius (52 degrees Fahrenheit) at their lowest. Ibiza follows the northern hemisphere’s weather patterns
During the early spring, the temperatures can be slightly cooler. Daytime temperatures range from an average of 10°C to 21°C. You can expect a decent amount of rainfall throughout spring and there are refreshing evening breezes. Sea temperatures in Ibiza during the spring tend to average at 18°C. The climate in Ibiza is Mediterranean with long hot and dry summers and mild winters. The summers are glorious in Ibiza and this helps make the island famous for its seasonal partying. The summer season starts from June and lasts until September and reaches a maximum temperature of 29°C between July and August.
July is a very popular time of the year to visit Ibiza, Spain when warm temperatures, plenty of sunshine and clear blue skies are practically guaranteed. During this month, the average temperature starts off at 24°C in the first few days and gradually rises until it reaches 26°C by the end of the month. In July, the average daily relative humidity for Ibiza is around 72%, made up of highs of 90% and lows of 54%.
EN | NL | IT | DK. The weather in Ibiza is a relatively mild climate throughout the year. During the year, Ibiza enjoys an average of 300 days of sunshine with a daily mean of five hours in winter and more than ten hours a day in summer. Humidity is stable, remaining about 70 per cent throughout the year. The charts below show maximum and average temperatures and hours of sunshine on Ibiza for each month. The Ibiza summer season and the first really warm beach days begin in May. The Ibiza summer is hot and dry-between the months of June and September, there is very little rain fall.
Winter. Winters in Ibiza are not particularly harsh with temperatures hardly going very low. From December to February, the average temperature is around 11°C but night temperatures go down to 8°C or 9°C. December is moderately wet with around 90mm of rain on an average. The climate in Ibiza is Mediterranean with long hot and dry summers and mild winters. The summers are glorious in Ibiza and this helps make the island famous for its seasonal partying. The summer season starts from June and lasts until September and reaches a maximum temperature of 29°C between July and August.
Ibiza: Annual Weather Averages. August is the hottest month in Ibiza with an average temperature of 26°C (79°F) and the coldest is January at 12°C (54°F) with the most daily sunshine hours at 13 in August. The wettest month is October with an average of 54mm of rain. 