In this article. Lupus nephritis is inflammation of the kidney that is caused by systemic lupus erythematous (SLE). Also called lupus, SLE is an autoimmune disease. With lupus, the body's immune system targets its own body tissues. Lupus nephritis happens when lupus involves the kidneys. Lupus nephritis is a serious problem. Its symptoms, though, are not always dramatic. For many, the first noticeable symptom is swelling of the legs, ankles and feet. Less often, there can be swelling in the face or hands.
Nephritis can produce glomerular injury, by disturbing the glomerular structure with inflammatory cell proliferation. This can lead to reduced glomerular blood flow, leading to reduced urine output (oliguria) and retention of waste products (uremia). 1 Lupus nephritis is inflammation of the kidney caused by systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), a disease of the immune system. 2  Athletic nephritis is nephritis resulting from strenuous exercise.
Glomerulonephritis is also known as glomerular nephritis (GN) or glomerular disease. It is a disease of the kidney, characterized by inflammation of the glomeruli. Glomeruli are very small blood vessels in the kidneys that act as tiny little filters-there are about one million glomeruli in each kidney. The disease damages the kidneys' ability to remove waste and excess fluids from the body.
Glomerulonephritis is a group of diseases that injure the part of the kidney that filters blood (called glomeruli). Other terms you may hear used are nephritis and nephrotic syndrome. When the kidney is injured, it cannot get rid of wastes and extra fluid in the body. If the illness continues, the kidneys may stop working completely, resulting in kidney failure.
Nephritis refers to inflammation of one or both of the kidneys. It can be caused by infection, but is most commonly caused by autoimmune disorders that affect the major organs. It can rarely be generically inherited, though the disease may not present in childhood. 
Nephritis refers to inflammation of one or both kidneys. It can be caused by infection, but is most commonly caused by autoimmune disorders that affect the major organs. For example, those with lupus are at a much higher risk for developing nephritis. Not taking the prescribed antibiotics for strep throat can lead to nephritis in some cases. Nephritis refers to inflammation of one or both kidneys. A urine test is often used to help diagnose nephritis. Swollen legs and feet may be symptoms of lupus nephritis, a form of renal parenchymal disease. Early detection and treatment of a bladder infection can help prevent infectious
nephritis. inflammation of the kidney; a focal or diffuse proliferative or destructive disease that may involve the glomerulus, tubule, or interstitial renal tissue. Called also Bright's disease. The most usual form is glomerulonephritis, that is, inflammation of the glomeruli, which are clusters of renal capillaries. tubulointerstitial nephritis nephritis of the renal tubules and interstitial tissues, usually seen secondary to a drug sensitization, systemic infection, graft rejection, or autoimmune disease. Characteristics include lymphocytes in interstitial infiltrate and within tubules, mild hematuria, and pyuria.
Nephritis is inflammation of the kidneys and may involve the glomeruli, tubules, or interstitial tissue surrounding the glomeruli and tubules. 1 Lupus nephritis is inflammation of the kidney caused by systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), a disease of the immune system. 2  Athletic nephritis is nephritis resulting from strenuous exercise.
nephritis. inflammation of the kidney; a focal or diffuse proliferative or destructive disease that may involve the glomerulus, tubule or interstitial renal tissue. See also glomerulonephritis, interstitial nephritis (below), nephrosis, pyelonephritis. tubulointerstitial nephritis nephritis of the renal tubules and interstitial tissues, usually seen secondary to a drug sensitization, systemic infection, graft rejection, or autoimmune disease. Characteristics include lymphocytes in interstitial infiltrate and within tubules, mild hematuria, and pyuria.