As a general rule, between 10 percent and 15 percent of your total calories should come from protein. So, if you consume 2,000 calories per day, at least 200 should come from protein, or about 50 grams. You should try to eat around one gram of protein per one kilogram of body weight, or around 0.4 grams per pound. An easier way to figure this out in your head is to take your weight, divide it in half, and subtract 10. The total will be the number of grams of protein you should consume each day. 
Well it seems they concluded that 0.36 grams per kilogram of lean bodyweight in protein is lost per day. With a safety margin in place, it has been bumped up to 0.45 grams per kilogram of lean bodyweight, and then bumped up again to approximately 0.75 grams per kilogram. Recent research shows that the RDA doesn't appear to meet the needs of exercising adults. One of the top researchers in this field, Dr Peter Lemon, stated in a recent review paper that, the RDA for those engaged in strength training should be about 1.7 - 1.8 grams of protein per kilogram of body mass per day.
To determine your RDA for protein, you can multiply your weight in pounds by 0.36, or use this online protein calculator. For a 50-year-old woman who weighs 140 pounds woman and who is sedentary (doesn’t exercise), that translates into 53 grams of protein a day. Protein is essential to good health. The very origin of the word — from the Greek protos, meaning “first” — reflects protein’s top-shelf status in human nutrition. You need it to put meat on your bones and to make hair, blood, connective tissue, antibodies, enzymes, and more.
That's about 46 grams of protein for women, and 56 grams of protein for men. It's not hard to get this amount if you eat two to three servings of protein-rich foods a day, according to the CDC. 1  A small 3-ounce piece of meat has about 21 grams of protein. 2  One 8-ounce container of yogurt has about 11 grams of protein. 3  One cup of milk has 8 grams of protein. 4  One cup of dry beans has about 16 grams of protein. But the truth about protein is that many people don't need as much as they are taking in. Adults in the U.S. are encouraged to get 10% to 35% of their day's calories from protein foods.
But the message the rest of us often get is that we’re eating too much protein. The Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) for protein is a modest 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight. The RDA is the amount of a nutrient you need to meet your basic nutritional requirements. Protein is essential to good health. The very origin of the word — from the Greek protos, meaning “first” — reflects protein’s top-shelf status in human nutrition. You need it to put meat on your bones and to make hair, blood, connective tissue, antibodies, enzymes, and more.
And nursing women need 20 grams more protein a day than they did before pregnancy to support milk production, says Antonucci. You would get 10 grams in one Greek yogurt or a half-cup of cottage cheese, so it doesn't add up to a lot of food. But the truth about protein is that many people don't need as much as they are taking in. Adults in the U.S. are encouraged to get 10% to 35% of their day's calories from protein foods.
Hopefully you've been convinced that a high protein intake is not evil.. Protein intake ranging from 1.4 grams of protein per kilogram of bodyweight to one gram per pound or more can be beneficial for an individual involved in an intense training program. Recent research shows that the RDA doesn't appear to meet the needs of exercising adults. One of the top researchers in this field, Dr Peter Lemon, stated in a recent review paper that, the RDA for those engaged in strength training should be about 1.7 - 1.8 grams of protein per kilogram of body mass per day.
This is just what I consider to be a good minimum daily protein intake for general health/function. 0.5-0.7 grams of protein per pound of body weight. Average healthy adult (male or female) that IS doing some form of exercise regularly or IS trying to improve their body (lose fat, build muscle, etc.). This is the minimum I’d recommend in this case. 0.8-1 grams of protein per pound of body weight
You need protein for your muscles, bones, and the rest of your body. Exactly how much you need changes with age: 1  Babies need about 10 grams a day. 2  School-age kids need 19-34 grams a day. 3  Teenage boys need up to 52 grams a day. 4  Teenage girls need 46 grams a day. 5  Adult men need about 56 grams a day. 6  Adult women need about 46 grams a day (71 grams, if pregnant or breastfeeding)
As many athletes believe, more is always better. For endurance athletes, additional protein is necessary, but probably not as much as you may think. The Recommended Dietary Allowance (RDA) is 0.8 – 1 gram per kilogram (kg) of body weight. In comparison, endurance athletes require about 1.2 to 1.4 g/kg. Optimal protein intake should equal the amount excreted to keep the body in nitrogen balance. One gram of protein has four calories and you should aim for about twenty percent of your daily calories to come from protein. Fifty-fifty-five percent from carbohydrates and the final thirty percent from fat and of which, less than ten percent should come from saturated fat.