It can have polyester, nylon, wool, and many more. Generally, Ponte fabric has this moisture absorbent function. It is also very smooth and relaxing. As they say, it has a very good hand feeling. Thus, with whatever apparel you make use of that is made from Ponte fabric, you can always expect it to be at its finest.
If Ponte fabric is used in any of the items mentioned above, you will really have the assurance that it will last for a very long time. More than that, once the Ponte fabric has been refined and processed, you can actually see different styles and themes in whatever item that you are to buy.
Ponte Knit fabric is a double knitted fabric that is usually created in one color rather than color patterns. It usually contains spandex which adds slight stretchability and extra comfort to any garment made from it.
If you have not heard of this fabulous fabric, this post should help give you a little insight on ponte. (pon-tee). Two years ago I found a great black pencil skirt by BCBG at the Nordstrom Anniversary Sale. I was quite enamored with it because immediately I noticed there was some “give”.
Ponte' fabric is a polyester knit fabric that resists wrinkles and creases and is very durable. Additional information states that Ponte di Roma means 'Roman Bridge' and there is usually a slight horizontal line in the fabric. The fabric looks the same on both sides.
If you are quite curious about Ponte fabric, it is basically a high quality fabric that can be used in different instances. You can actually find a trouser, bag, jacket, shoe, tablecloth, pajamas, sportswear and many others made from Ponte Fabric. It has gained popularity due to its high quality and durability.
You probably are asking about fabric that is made of a blend of cotton and polyester fibers. This is a very common blend, for example a lot of button-front shirts for men and … women are made of 60%/40% (either one being the larger percentage) of this combination.
You can actually find Ponte fabric that is cheap since it has more of the cheaper component. There are some others that are more expensive due to the fact that majority of its component is the expensive one. It also depends on the item that you are to buy.
As ponte is a double-knit interlock fabric, it is stable and firm, yet retains all of the flexibility and softness of a typical jersey. With ponte knit you can’t go wrong, so make your selection today.