Intrinsic muscles. Definition. noun. A group of muscles located within or situated deeper in a structure, in contrast to extrinsic muscles located rather superficially. Supplement. Based on the above definition, the intrinsic muscles refer to the muscles closest to the axial and appendicular skeleton. For example, the intrinsic muscles of the hand are those lying deeper in the hand, such as the interossei and lumbrical muscles.
intrinsic muscles. Definitions: 1. muscles fully contained (origin, belly, and insertion) within the structure under consideration. For example, the interossei and lumbrical muscles are intrinsic muscles of the hand. The definition information for intrinsic muscles is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. 
Muscles acting on the hand can be divided into two groups; extrinsic and intrinsic muscles. 1  The extrinsic muscles are located in the anterior and posterior compartments of the forearm. 2  They control crude movements, and produce a forceful grip. 3  The intrinsic muscles of the hand are located within the hand itself. Muscles acting on the hand can be divided into two groups; extrinsic and intrinsic muscles. 1  The extrinsic muscles are located in the anterior and posterior compartments of the forearm. 2
Extrinsic muscles. Definition. noun. A group of muscles lying superficially on a structure, in contrast to intrinsic muscles, which are located deeply. Supplement. For instance, the extrinsic muscles of the tongue include genioglossus muscle, hyoglossus muscle, styloglossus muscle, and palatoglossus muscle. Since they are extrinsic muscles, they are located on the surface of the tongue, and attach the tongue to other structures. 
extrinsic muscle one that originates in another part than that of its insertion, as those originating outside the eye, which move the eyeball. fixation m's (fixator m's) accessory muscles that serve to steady a part. gluteal m's three muscles, the greatest, middle, and least, that extend, abduct, and rotate the thigh. palatine m's the intrinsic and extrinsic muscles that act upon the soft palate. pectoral m's four muscles of the chest; See appendix 3-4. quadrate muscle a square-shaped muscle; see appendix 3-4. quadriceps muscle a name applied collectively to four muscles of the thigh; see anatomic Table of Muscles in the Appendices.
Extrinsic muscles are voluntary muscles,external to the eye, that control the direction the eye moves in e.g looking left or right.   Intrinsic muscles are wit … hin the eye, such as those that control the size of the pupil. Intrinsic muscle is not under voluntary control. 
intrinsic muscle one whose origin and insertion are both in the same part or organ, as those entirely within the eye. multipennate muscle a muscle in which the fiber bundles converge to several tendons. palatine m's the intrinsic and extrinsic muscles that act upon the soft palate. pectoral m's four muscles of the chest; See appendix 3-4. quadrate muscle a square-shaped muscle; see appendix 3-4. quadriceps muscle a name applied collectively to four muscles of the thigh; see anatomic Table of Muscles in the Appendices.
1 The extrinsic muscles are located in the anterior and posterior compartments of the forearm. 2  They control crude movements, and produce a forceful grip. 3  The intrinsic muscles of the hand are located within the hand itself. 4  They are responsible for the fine motor functions of the hand. Muscles acting on the hand can be divided into two groups; extrinsic and intrinsic muscles. 1  The extrinsic muscles are located in the anterior and posterior compartments of the forearm. 2
extrinsic muscle (em). Etymology: L, extrinsecus, on the outside. 1 a muscle that is outside the organ it controls, as the extraocular muscles that control eye movements. 2 a muscle that links a limb to the trunk of the body. palatine m's the intrinsic and extrinsic muscles that act upon the soft palate. pectoral m's four muscles of the chest; See appendix 3-4. quadrate muscle a square-shaped muscle; see appendix 3-4. quadriceps muscle a name applied collectively to four muscles of the thigh; see anatomic Table of Muscles in the Appendices.
Answers. Best Answer: Intrinsic-The intrinsic muscle groups are the thenar and hypothenar muscles (thenar referring to the thumb, hypothenar to the small finger), the interosseus muscles (between the metacarpal bones, four dorsally and three volarly) and the lumbrical muscles. 