How old your child should be to stay home alone is a question many parents agonize over and one that doesn’t have a clear-cut, straight answer. In order to determine if your child is ready to stay home alone, you need to think about how mature they are, how responsible they are, and how much you trust them to take care of things around the house. The answers to these questions will help you decide.
Because children mature at different rates, there is no single, pre-set age at which children are considered “old enough” to stay home by themselves for short periods. Parents must evaluate their child’s individual development and physical capabilities. Florida law does not have a hard and fast rule about when children can be left home alone, but instead expects parents to take all of the circumstances into account when deciding what level of supervision is needed.
Deciding when your child is ready to stay home alone is a difficult decision for parents. There is no set age, either prescribed by Idaho law or by child development experts. It comes down to a judgment call on the part of parents. 
Georgia’s Guidelines for leaving a child without adult supervision: 1  Children under 8 years old should never be left alone, even for short periods of time. 2  Children between the ages of 9 and 12, based on level of maturity, can be left home alone for brief periods of time. 1 Children under 8 years old should never be left alone, even for short periods of time. 2  Children between the ages of 9 and 12, based on level of maturity, can be left home alone for brief periods of time. 3  Children 13 and older can generally be left as babysitters, with the exception of children in foster care.
The official website of Erie County, Pennsylvania, recommends never leaving a child under 10 home alone. Parents must decide for themselves whether a child can be left home alone, rather than decide strictly by age, according to the U.S. Administration for Children & Families. Parents should consider how safe their neighborhood is when making the decision. Although Pennsylvania doesn't have a set minimum age at which it's legal for children to be left home alone, a parent is still responsible for knowing when her child may be safely left home without supervision. A young babysitter must be able to handle the responsibility of the child as well.
Laws for Leaving a Child Home Alone. Only a couple of states have laws that specify the age when a child can be left home alone, including Maryland (age 8) and Illinois (age 14). However, most states have guidelines with the Department of Health and Human Services or other child protective agencies that test a child's ability to be left home alone. 
The National SAFEKIDS Campaign recommends that no child under the age of 12 be left at home alone. However, consider a child's age and maturity level. For example, if a child is extremely impulsive, it might be best to wait until he or she is older than 12. 
A parent who leaves a child home alone before he is ready may face charges of neglect in Pennsylvania. Although Pennsylvania doesn't have a set minimum age at which it's legal for children to be left home alone, a parent is still responsible for knowing when her child may be safely left home without supervision. A young babysitter must be able to handle the responsibility of the child as well.
Under Maryland law, a child must be at least eight years old to be left alone in a house or car. State law also says a child must be at least 13 years old to baby-sit another child. Generally, it is left up to the parent to decide whether a child who is at least eight is mature enough to be home alone. Any time you leave your child alone, be sure the child knows what to do in case of an emergency
Illinois law requires children to be 14 years old before being left alone; in Maryland, the minimum age is 8, while in Oregon, children must be 10 before being left home alone.Many States offer guidelines for parents that can assist them in determining when it’s. 