Estepona is a popular tourist destination, specially during the summer season. It’s located on the western side of the Costa del Sol, next to Marbella and San Pedro. With a huge accommodation offer, it’s a very demanded place for a holiday rest.
Overview of Estepona. With an overall population of 80,000, the 'old town', as it is known, is a bustling and atmospheric centre. Estepona is one of the few coastal towns that has succeeded in maintaining its pueblo charm and character, despite the onslaught of tourism. Notwithstanding, all the tourist facilities are here, including hotels, restaurants, leisure and cultural activities, and shops.
Discover the beauty of Spain from our Estepona beach resort. Marriott's Playa Andaluza beach resort in Estepona, Spain, is situated on the Costa del Sol near the exclusive Millionaire's Paradise of Puerto Banus.
Estepona is the Costa del Sol’s most westerly resort and lies 80km from Malaga airport at the foot of the Sierra Bermeja mountains. Originally a fishing village Estepona has developed as a mainly Spanish resort and has managed to avoid too many high rise hotels and apartment blocks.
Estepona is one of the most popular tourist resorts in Western Costa del Sol. Its well-appointed beaches, wonderful marina, eight golf courses, seven museums and interesting sights make it a popular destination, offering facilities for health and wellness, and for luxury travellers as well.
Estepona town located to the west of the Costa del Sol, Southern Spain-at the foot of the Sierra Bermeja Mountains. Estepona is well known for its lovely beaches and tiny coves which stretch along 20 Km of coastline. At the western end of the Paseo Maritimo is Estepona's charming port and harbour that is located only a short walk from town. Estepona is peppered with many excellent restaurants and lively bars for you to enjoy. In history and culture the town remains unspoiled and the warm and friendly people preserve tradition with pride. Estepona’s narrow, cobbled streets and quaint little shops just add to the charm of this lovely town.