This wonderful version of pimento cheese can be used for grilled cheese sandwiches, as a spread for crackers, or served alongside your favorite fried green tomatoes.. Saved Save I Made it Rate it Share Print. Saved. Save. ADVERTISEMENT. 10 m servings 208 cals. Added to shopping list. Go to shopping list. 
A Note on Ingredients. My recipe for pimento cheese is one of the best I've ever tasted, but there are endless variations on the theme. Many include spices; mine does not. Cream cheese is also a common ingredient that you won't find in this recipe. 
Here's my own family recipe for pimento cheese — the classic recipe we Southerners love. Pin it Pimento cheese (or pimenna or mento cheese, depending on where you're from), the blend of sharp cheddar, sweet-spicy pimiento peppers, and rich mayonnaise, is far more than the sum of its parts. 
Pimento Cheese. Pimientos are large, sweet, heart-shaped peppers that are typically used for canning. Pimento cheese—the simple combination of grated cheddar cheese with mayonnaise and pimientos—is a Southern staple often served on crackers or vegetables.
Pimento cheese can be served as a spread on crackers or celery, scooped onto corn chips or tortilla chips, mixed in with mashed yolks for deviled eggs, added to grits, or slathered over hamburgers or hotdogs. Pimento cheese can also be used to replace the sliced cheese in a grilled cheese sandwich. In southeastern Missouri, particularly Cape Girardeau county, it is a local delicacy to put it on sliced barbecue pork sandwiches called Combo 'Cues..
The Jamaican pimento is a small, pungent, round spice that is used to add flavor to a wide variety of dishes. Small and sweet, the red cherry pepper pimento is used as a spice in a variety of meals and drinks, including pimento cheese and martinis. Pimento peppers are large and heart-shaped with a bright red color. Green olives are often stuffed with pimento.
If you enjoy pimento cheese and you think you've had the best, we invite you to try our version of pimento cheese...we call it Palmetto Cheese™. Born in the low country of South Carolina, this pimento cheese has the perfect dipping texture, a smooth taste, and is pleasing to the palate long after the last dip. 
No, pimento cheese got its start up North—in New York, in fact—as a product of industrial food manufacturing and mass marketing. Its story is one of redemption, of a wayward factory child adopted by a good Southern family, scrubbed up nice, and invited to Sunday dinner. It was always just white bread and a very thin layer of pimento cheese.. Homemade pimento cheese may be a relatively new Southern culinary icon, but it's an icon nonetheless. To my mind, that basic sandwich is still the best way to enjoy pimento cheese today.
This is the tastiest pimento cheese recipe! I keep House Seasoning in the pantry at all times, but I only use 1/2 cup of salt to the 1/4 cup garlic powder and 1/4 cup pepper so it's not too salty. I made the recipe as is, and was very pleased. Since the beloved pimento cheese of my youth is sweeter with a little spice, I added a bit of sweetness and a couple shakes of cayenne. It's great either way. What I liked about this was the creaminess, it spreads so easily.
A pimento cheese sandwich may be a quick and inexpensive lunch for children, or it may be served as a cocktail finger food (with crusts trimmed, garnished with watercress, and cut into triangles) or rolled up and cut into pinwheels. It is also a common snack in the Philippines, where it is referred to as cheese pimento. Pimento cheese can also be used to replace the sliced cheese in a grilled cheese sandwich. In southeastern Missouri, particularly Cape Girardeau county, it is a local delicacy to put it on sliced barbecue pork sandwiches called Combo 'Cues..