The first sewing machine was invented in the United States by Walter Hunt from New York. Hunt never obtained a patent. Later, Elias Howe, from Massachusetts, invented the fi … rst automatic sewing machine. Howe did receive a patent for his invention. Elias Howe was employed in a machinist's shop, where h … e had the opportunity to experiment with inventing a sewing machine. He successfully demonstrated his first sewing machine in 1846, and patented his lockstitch sewing machine on 10 September 1846 in New Hartford, Connecticut. Howe faced a legal battle after Isaac Singer invented the up-and-down motion mechanism, and Allen Wilson developed a rotary hook shuttle, both filing for patents
Cultura/Matelly/ Riser/ Getty Images. Elias Howe was the inventor of the first American-patented sewing machine. Elias Howe was born in Spencer, Massachusetts on July 9, 1819. After he lost his factory job in the Panic of 1837, Howe moved from Spencer to Boston, where he found work in a machinist's shop. It was there that Elias Howe began tinkering with the idea of inventing a mechanical sewing machine.
In 1833, Hunt invented a sewing machine that used a lockstitch, but failed to patent it. The lockstitch used two threads, one passing through a loop in the other and then both interlocking. 
It was Howe, however, who came up with significant refinements to the design concepts of his predecessors, and on September 10, 1846, he was awarded the first U.S. Patent (4,750) for a sewing machine using a lockstitch design. Elias Howe was credited with patenting the first sewing machine more than 150 years ago. His invention helped the mass production of sewing machines and clothing. That in turn revolutionized the sewing industry and freed women from some of the drudgery of daily life at the time.
The observations he made at the mills and with understanding of sewing machines from the others who came before, he started working on a design for a sewing machine that would produce a better lockstitch. Elias Howe invented the first successful sewing machine in 1845 and it was patented in 1846. Although sewing machines were of interest to people, his was not very well accepted by the public. He took his machine across the Atlantic to England where the machine was received better, but not well enough.
In the year 1790, Englishmen Thomas Saint invented the first working sewing machine which was meant to work on leather. In 1883 Walter Hunt invented the lockstitch sewing machine. In 1845, the sewing machine was created by Elias. Howe after made some improvement in Hunt’s method. In 1889, Singer Sewing Co. developed the first electric machine. 
Elias  Howe was employed in a machinist's shop, where he had the  opportunity to experiment with inventing a sewing machine. He  successfully demonstrated his first sewing machine in 1846, and  patented his lockstitch sewing machine on 10 September  1846 in New Hartford, Connecticut. Elias Howe was employed in a machinist's shop, where h … e had the opportunity to experiment with inventing a sewing machine. He successfully demonstrated his first sewing machine in 1846, and patented his lockstitch sewing machine on 10 September 1846 in New Hartford, Connecticut. Howe faced a legal battle after Isaac Singer invented the up-and-down motion mechanism, and Allen Wilson developed a rotary hook shuttle, both filing for patents
Elias Howe was employed in a machinist's shop, where h … e had the opportunity to experiment with inventing a sewing machine. He successfully demonstrated his first sewing machine in 1846, and patented his lockstitch sewing machine on 10 September 1846 in New Hartford, Connecticut. Howe faced a legal battle after Isaac Singer invented the up-and-down motion mechanism, and Allen Wilson developed a rotary hook shuttle, both filing for patents. They include: English inventor and cabinet maker, Thomas Saint, who was issued the first patent for a complete machine for sewing in 1790. It's unclear if he ever built it or just patented it in lieu. A replica built from his plans failed to work.In 1810 German inventor Baltasar Krems invented a machine for sewing hats.
Elias Howe patented the first ever lockstitch sewing machine in the world in 1846. His invention helped the mass production of sewing machines and clothing. That in turn revolutionized the sewing industry and freed women from some of the drudgery of daily life at the time. Elias Howe was credited with patenting the first sewing machine more than 150 years ago