World Trade Center Harrisburg is a member of the World Trade Centers Association. The World Trade Centers Association, headquartered in New York City, is the umbrella organization for over 330 World Trade Centers in more than 100 countries.
The Best Office Address in the World. At 1,776 feet tall, One World Trade Center is the tallest building in the Western Hemisphere. Developed by The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, this building sets new standards of design, construction, and prestige, and heralds the renaissance of Downtown Manhattan.
One World Trade Center: The tallest building in the Western Hemisphere, One World Trade Center is an iconic landmark for Lower Manhattan. Starting in early 2015, visitors will be able to experience a state of the art observation deck offering spectacular views of New York and the surrounding region. Learn more.
You can explore the history of the World Trade Center and glimpse its future development. The World's largest financial center and office complex came to symbolize the wealth and power of the world's financial capital that fell victim to a brutal terrorist attack on 9/11/2001.
­The original idea for a world trade center in New York is generally credited to David Rockefeller, one of industrialist John D. Rockefeller's many grandsons. In fact, the idea was proposed soon after World War II, a decade before Rockefeller ever got involved, but he was the one who actually got the ball rolling.
World Trade Center was created from the vision of, and financed by, the powerful Rockefeller family. At Ground Zero you can learn about the origins of the World Trade Center and its history before the tragic events of 9/11. Out of this horrendous event came uplifting stories of heroes such as Rick Rescorla, Willie Rodriguez, and Pat Tillman.
Building 7 was a 47-story skyscraper and was part of the World Trade Center complex. Built in 1984, it would have been the tallest high-rise in 33 states in the United States. It collapsed at 5:20 pm on September 11, 2001.
Many associate a World Trade Center with a building, but not all licensed World Trade Centers actually have a real estate component. At this point, the WTC Harrisburg concentrates only on the delivery of trade assistance services and global trade promotion and we do not have a physical building.