By Bob McDonald, Quirks & Quarks. Studies of the steel that made up the hull and rivets of Titanic have shown that the ship was made with lower-grade metals that were more brittle, suggesting that lives might have been saved had the vessel been constructed with better material. 
No, the name Titanic just referred to it's large size. Titanium got it's name from the Titans of Greek Mythology. Titanium is as strong as steel, but 45% lighter so it would be a good replacement for steel if itwasn't so expensive. Titanium was not used outside a laboratory until 1946. 
The Titanic-Construction. Last Updated: 08/14/2014 - 16:49. Titanic was built in Belfast by the shipbuilding company Harland and Wolff. The company was owned by Lord Pirrie, a friend of Bruce Ismay, managing director of the White Star Line (pictured below, left). The chief designer of the Titanic was his son-in-law, Thomas Andrews (pictured below right). 
About the ship. The RMS Titanic was built by the White Star line, which was a competitor to another shipbuilding company, Cunard. In 1907, Cunard made major waves by building the Lusitania and the Mauretania, which set speed records crossing the Atlantic.
RMS Titanic was a British passenger liner that sank in the North Atlantic Ocean in the early morning of 15 April 1912 after colliding with an iceberg during her maiden voyage from Southampton, UK, to New York City, US. 1 The Boat Deck, on which the lifeboats were housed. 2  It was from here during the early hours of 15 April 1912 that Titanic ' s lifeboats were lowered into the North Atlantic. 3  The bridge and wheelhouse were at the forward end, in front of the captain's and officers' quarters.
The RMS Titanic, the largest ship afloat at the time it entered service, was the second of three Olympic class ocean liners operated by the White Star Line, and was built by the Harland and Wolff shipyard in Belfast with Thomas Andrews as her naval architect. Andrews was among those lost in the sinking. 1 The Boat Deck, on which the lifeboats were housed. 2  It was from here during the early hours of 15 April 1912 that Titanic ' s lifeboats were lowered into the North Atlantic. 3  The bridge and wheelhouse were at the forward end, in front of the captain's and officers' quarters.
The wreck of Titanic remains on the seabed, split in two and gradually disintegrating at a depth of 12,415 feet (3,784 m). Since her discovery in 1985, thousands of artefacts have been recovered and put on display at museums around the world. 1 The Boat Deck, on which the lifeboats were housed. 2  It was from here during the early hours of 15 April 1912 that Titanic ' s lifeboats were lowered into the North Atlantic. 3  The bridge and wheelhouse were at the forward end, in front of the captain's and officers' quarters.
Steel of the Titanic. The sinking of the Titanic on the 15 th of April, 1912 was one of the most news breaking and shocking events of the early 20 th century. At the time of construction, the Titanic was the largest ship ever built, and used revolutionary design and technology to give it an unsinkable status. Many combining factors led to the magnitude of the disaster, including lack of lifeboats, flaws in the design of the ship and negligence of the crew