Archaea are unicellular prokaryotes which make them bacteria-like organisms. Their DNA structure resembles the DNA of eukaryotic cells. Also, the cell walls of Archaebacteria are structurally different from the bacterial ones. Archaea live in environments that would not be suitable for most life forms. They can be found around hot geysers, volcanic vents, very salty lakes and on the ocean floor.
Microorganisms, also called microbes, are extremely tiny organisms that can only be seen under a microscope. Microorganisms are one of the most diverse organisms and they include bacteria, fungi, archaea, protists, green algae, plankton and amoeba. Some scientists also classify viruses as microorganisms. Most microorganisms are single-celled, but few varieties are also multi-cellular. Microorganisms can be found virtually in every part of Earth from deep sea vents, hot springs, deep buried rocks to high up in the atmosphere.
The microorganisms, or microbes, that can cause disease come in different forms. Viruses and bacteria are probably the most familiar because we hear so much about them. But fungi, protozoa, and helminths are also big players in the story of infectious disease. Learn more about each of these five main categories, as well as a recently discovered one: prions. Bread mold and hookworm, both infectious agents, are neither bacteria nor viruses. Viruses and bacteria may be the most recognizable of the microbes that can cause infectious disease. But there are several other varieties.
bacteria are the most abundant group of organisms within the Kingdom Monera. Bacteria have different types of forms: Cocci: spherical bacteria Bacilli: elongated bacteria Vibrio: comma-shaped bacteria spelling Spirilla-bacteria in the form of spring, or coil.
Previously, different types of microbes and the ways they reproduce were discussed. Some microbes are free-living organisms and others are parasites. Even though the words 'microbe' and 'bacteria' are associated with disease for most people, not all microorganisms are 'bad guys'. Food like cheese, pickles, olives, sausages, chocolate, bread, wine, beer and soy sauce are all made with the help of different types of bacteria and yeast. In most of these food products, bacteria play a major role because they produce lactic acid.
Microorganisms are very tiny living things. They are so small that you need a microscope to see them. Microorganisms are all around us, in the air, in our bodies and in water. Some microorganisms are harmful to us, but others are helpful to us. There are three types of microorganism: viruses. bacteria. fungi. 1  Page: 2  1. 3  2
Protozoa is a subkingdom of unicellular, mostly aerobic, eukaryotic organisms. Sometimes they are also called protists. They are neither plants nor animals. They make up the largest group of organisms in the world in terms of numbers and biomass. Some protozoans, like Euglena, have chloroplasts like plants and make their own food, which makes them autotrophs. Their DNA structure resembles the DNA of eukaryotic cells. Also, the cell walls of Archaebacteria are structurally different from the bacterial ones. Archaea live in environments that would not be suitable for most life forms. They can be found around hot geysers, volcanic vents, very salty lakes and on the ocean floor.
Viruses infect all  types of organisms, from animals and plants to bacteria and  archaea.    Viruses are unique because they exhibit some of the activities that  are common to organic life, but they are missing many of the  others. Algae are unicellular or multicellular eukaryotes that obtain nourishment by photosynthesis. 2. Algae produce oxygen and carbohydrates used by other organisms. Viruses. 1. Viruses are noncellular entities that are parasites of cells.
There are three main types of micro organism that can cause disease Bacteria, these are prokaryotes and have no true nucleus. Bacterial diseases include tuberculosis, gonorrhe … a, tetanus etc. Infections can result when bacteria get into the wrong parts of the body and are able to reproduce. Algae are unicellular or multicellular eukaryotes that obtain nourishment by photosynthesis. 2. Algae produce oxygen and carbohydrates used by other organisms. Viruses. 1. Viruses are noncellular entities that are parasites of cells.
the different types of microorganisms are-   bacteria   fungi   protozoa   viruses   search on the wikipedia for uses   i did my homework this way tooo … oooooo. Algae are unicellular or multicellular eukaryotes that obtain nourishment by photosynthesis. 2. Algae produce oxygen and carbohydrates used by other organisms. Viruses. 1. Viruses are noncellular entities that are parasites of cells.