Please provide detailed information for Miami-Dade County Clerk of Courts to assist you.*. 
Under Florida law, e-mail addresses are public records. If you do not want your e-mail address released in response to a public-records request, do not send electronic mail to this entity. Instead, contact this office by phone or in writing. 
Contacting the Clerk's Office. E-mail your inquiries or suggestions. Under Florida law, e-mail addresses are public records. If you do not want your e-mail address released in response to a public-records request, do not send electronic mail to this entity. Instead, contact this office by phone or in writing. Miami-Dade County Clerk of CourtsTelephone Numbers; Click on link below for building address & location. Child Support/Alimony Office.
Information on this website has been posted with the intent that it be readily available for personal and public non-commercial (educational) use and to provide the public with direct online access to information in the Miami-Dade Clerk’s Office information systems. Please be advised: The Clerk’s Office makes every effort to ensure the accuracy of the following information; however it makes no warranties or representations whatsoever regarding the completeness, accuracy, or timeliness of such information and data.
It may take approximately three weeks for the citation to appear in our system. You can not pay a traffic ticket online or by phone unless the information is in the system; however, you are still responsible for complying with the requirements of your citation within 30 days of the issue date. If you need a clearance for a Dade County citation, you may call (305) 275-1111 to obtain a clearance at the cost of $7.00. If you cannot view PDF files, you can download Acrobat Reader for free from Adobe Systems, Inc. In order to use PDF files, you must have Acrobat installed on your computer.
General Traffic Information. Tickets that are issued for traffic violations must be paid within 30 days from the issue date on the ticket. You may verify the status of your case via our traffic system using your citation number, Driver's License number or name and date of birth. If you need a clearance for a Dade County citation, you may call (305) 275-1111 to obtain a clearance at the cost of $7.00. If you cannot view PDF files, you can download Acrobat Reader for free from Adobe Systems, Inc. In order to use PDF files, you must have Acrobat installed on your computer.
Information on this website has been posted with the intent that it be readily available for personal and public non-commercial (educational) use and to provide the public with direct online access to information in the Miami-Dade Clerk’s Office information systems. 
The Clerk’s Office is going purple for the month of October – in support of Domestic Violence Awareness Month. Please remember that the Clerk’s Office is available 365 days a year to assist domestic violence victims to file injunctions for protection, working with The Spring of Tampa Bay. Call 247-SAFE seven days a week, 24 hours a day if you are a victim of abuse. 
If your driver license was suspended due to failure to comply with a Miami-Dade County traffic citation, upon compliance, you may reinstate your driver license at any of the Miami-Dade County Clerk of Courts or Florida Department of Highway Safety and Motor Vehicles locations. If you need a clearance for a Dade County citation, you may call (305) 275-1111 to obtain a clearance at the cost of $7.00. If you cannot view PDF files, you can download Acrobat Reader for free from Adobe Systems, Inc. In order to use PDF files, you must have Acrobat installed on your computer.