By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. Adenoma is a type of non-cancerous tumor or benign that may affect various organs. It is derived from the word “adeno” meaning 'pertaining to a gland'. Every cell in the body has a tightly regulated system that dictates when it needs to grow, mature and eventually die off. An adenoma is a cancer originating in glandular tissue. The tissues affected are part of a larger tissue category known as epithelial tissues. Epithelial tissues line skin, glands, cavities of organs etc.
Adrenal adenoma. A adrenal adenoma is a benign tumor of the glandular type in the adrenal gland. While some adrenal adenomas do not secrete hormones at all, some secrete cortisol, aldosterone, or androgens. 
basophilic adenoma in a classification system formerly used for pituitary adenomas, an adenoma whose cells stain pale blue with basic dyes; most adenomas that secreted excessive amounts of adrenocorticotrophic hormone were in this group. hepatocellular adenoma a large, fleshy, hypervascular tumor of the liver occurring chiefly in women of childbearing age and associated with oral contraceptive use. It is composed of sheets of cells with areas of hemorrhage and necrosis and has a tendency to hemorrhage and rupture; it may become malignant.
gonadotrope adenoma (gonadotroph adenoma) a rare type of pituitary adenoma made up of gonadotroph-like cells that secrete excessive amounts of follicle-stimulating hormone or luteinizing hormone or both; it may cause precocious puberty, visual disturbances, or hypogonadism. hepatocellular adenoma a large, fleshy, hypervascular tumor of the liver occurring chiefly in women of childbearing age and associated with oral contraceptive use. It is composed of sheets of cells with areas of hemorrhage and necrosis and has a tendency to hemorrhage and rupture; it may become malignant.
follicular adenoma adenoma of the thyroid in which the cells are arranged in the form of follicles. glycoprotein adenoma a pituitary adenoma that causes excessive secretion of one of the three glycoprotein hormones (follicle-stimulating hormone, luteinizing hormone, and thyrotropin). hepatocellular adenoma a large, fleshy, hypervascular tumor of the liver occurring chiefly in women of childbearing age and associated with oral contraceptive use. It is composed of sheets of cells with areas of hemorrhage and necrosis and has a tendency to hemorrhage and rupture; it may become malignant.
endocrine-active adenoma a pituitary adenoma that secretes excessive amounts of a hormone; see prolactinoma, corticotroph adenoma, gonadotroph adenoma, growth hormone–secreting adenoma, and thyrotroph adenoma. Called also hyperfunctional or hyperfunctioning adenoma. hepatocellular adenoma a large, fleshy, hypervascular tumor of the liver occurring chiefly in women of childbearing age and associated with oral contraceptive use. It is composed of sheets of cells with areas of hemorrhage and necrosis and has a tendency to hemorrhage and rupture; it may become malignant.
Noun. 1. adenoma-a benign epithelial tumor of glandular origin. benign tumor, benign tumour, nonmalignant neoplasm, nonmalignant tumor, nonmalignant tumour-a tumor that is not cancerous. fibroadenoma-benign and movable and firm and not tender tumor of the breast; common in young women and caused by high levels of estroge
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. An adenoma (from Greek αδένας, adeno- , gland + -ώμα, -oma, tumor) (/ˌaedɨˈnoʊmə/ ; ˌædɨˈnoʊmə plural adenomas or /adenomata/) ˌaedɨˈnoʊmɨtə ˌædɨˈnoʊmɨtə is a benign tumor of epithelial tissue with, glandular origin, glandular characteristics. or both Some adenomas grow from epithelial tissue in nonglandular areas but express glandular tissue structure (as can happen in familial polyposis coli). Although adenomas are benign, over time they may transform to become malignant, at which point they are called adenocarcinomas. Most adenomas do not transform.
Adenoma is a benign tumor of glandular tissue, such as the mucosa of stomach, small intestine, and colon, in which tumor cells form glands or gland like structures. In hollow organs (digestive tract), the adenoma grows into the lumen-adenomatous polyp or polypoid adenoma. Some adenomas grow from epithelial tissue in nonglandular areas but express glandular tissue structure (as can happen in familial polyposis coli). Although adenomas are benign, over time they may transform to become malignant, at which point they are called adenocarcinomas. Most adenomas do not transform.
An adenoma is a benign tumor of glandular origin. Adenomas can grow from many organs including the colon, adrenal glands, pituitary gland, thyroid, prostate, etc. 