TSH causes the thyroid gland to make two hormones: triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4). T3 and T4 help control your body's metabolism. Triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) are needed for normal growth of the brain, especially during the first 3 years of life. A baby whose thyroid gland does not make enough thyroid hormone (congenital hypothyroidism) may, in severe cases, be mentally retarded. Guide. A thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) blood test is used to check for thyroid gland problems. TSH is produced when the hypothalamus releases a substance called thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH). TRH then triggers the pituitary gland to release TSH.
Speaking roughly, normal levels of thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) are in the range of 0.4 to 4.0 mIU/L. However, each laboratory and test manufacturer identifies its own normal TSH range. This is based on the test, the equipment being used, and the patients being tested. 
Thyroid-Stimulating Hormone (TSH). Guide. A thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) blood test is used to check for thyroid gland problems. TSH is produced when the hypothalamus releases a substance called thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH). TRH then triggers the pituitary gland to release TSH.
Results. A thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) blood test is used to check for thyroid gland problems. The normal values listed here-called a reference range-are just a guide. These ranges vary from lab to lab, and your lab may have a different range for what's normal
A thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) blood test is used to check for thyroid gland problems. TSH is produced when the hypothalamus releases a substance called thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH). Guide. A thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) blood test is used to check for thyroid gland problems. TSH is produced when the hypothalamus releases a substance called thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH). TRH then triggers the pituitary gland to release TSH.
Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) levels evaluate the functioning of the thyroid gland. TSH instructs the thyroid to produce thyroid hormone. High TSH levels indicate that the thyroid is underactive, and a low TSH means the thyroid is overactive. Abnormal TSH levels alert medical professionals to diseases of the thyroid gland. The American Thyroid Association (ATA) recommends adults begin screening for thyroid dysfunction at age 35. If a patient's TSH falls in the normal range, thyroid tests for free T4 and free T3 and thyroid antibodies can rule out hypothyroidism and hyperthyroidism.
The goal of treatment is to get a normal level of thyroid hormone in your body. This is checked using a routine thyroid function blood test called a TSH (thyroid stimulating hormone). A normal range is around 0.4-4.5 mIU/L. This is reached by taking a replacement thyroid ... People with Graves' disease usually have lower than normal levels of TSH and higher levels of ... After the surgery, you'll likely need treatment to supply your body with normal amounts of ... Your parathyroid glands produce a hormone that controls the level of calcium in your blood. ...
TSH (with a half life of about an hour) stimulates the thyroid gland to secrete the hormone thyroxine (T 4), which has only a slight effect on metabolism. T 4 is converted to triiodothyronine (T 3), which is the active hormone that stimulates metabolism. Thyroid-stimulating hormone. Thyroid-stimulating hormone (also known as thyrotropin, TSH, or hTSH for human TSH) is a pituitary hormone that stimulates the thyroid gland to produce thyroxine (T 4), and then triiodothyronine (T 3) which stimulates the metabolism of almost every tissue in the body.