A floating ice sheet or cap floats on the Arctic Ocean, and on this is the spot that is called the North Pole. The sea ice varies in thickn … ess, making it possible to reach the pole using nuclear submarines. The South Pole is on the continent of Antarctica. 1 person found this useful. 1  Sunset at the North Pole Comes Just Once Per Year In most of the world, the sun sets once a day. The ocean that contains the North Pole is the Arctic Ocean.
No, the North Pole is located in constantly shifting sea ice which is covered the middle of the Arctic Ocean.South Pole located on a continent and this fact describes the difference between North Pole weather and South pole weather. Continent is always much colder than water. There is no land under the North Pole, only 4 km depth water under sea ice. Quite the contrary the South Pole is located in continent. By the way. Antarctica is the highest continent, the medium altitude of continent is 2000 meters.
The sea depth at the North Pole has been measured at 4,261 m (13,980 ft) by the Russian Mir submersible in 2007 and at 4,087 m (13,410 ft) by USS Nautilus in 1958. The Earth's axis of rotation – and hence the position of the North Pole – was commonly believed to be fixed (relative to the surface of the Earth) until, in the 18th century, the mathematician Leonhard Euler predicted that the axis might wobble slightly.
12. North Pole is not a part of continent, it is a point in the shifting sea ice in the Arctic Ocean. The nearest land is Greenland and the nearest continent is Eurasian. And there is not continent under North Pole, only water in the condition of ice. There is no land under the North Pole, only 4 km depth water under sea ice. Quite the contrary the South Pole is located in continent. By the way. Antarctica is the highest continent, the medium altitude of continent is 2000 meters.
The North Pole is located at the very top of the Northern Hemisphere. The South Pole is located at the very bottom of the Southern Hemisphere. The equator is exactly half way between the North Pole and South Pole. Each of the seven continents is located in at least two hemispheres. Look at our continent of North America. It lies in the Western Hemisphere and the Northern Hemisphere. All of Australia is located south of the equator, and east of the Prime Meridian. This means that Australia/Oceania is located in the Southern and Eastern Hemispheres. North of Australia, lies the largest continent in the world, Asia. Most of Asia is located in
While the South Pole lies on a continental land mass, the North Pole is located in the middle of the Arctic Ocean amid waters that are almost permanently covered with constantly shifting sea ice. This makes it impractical to construct a permanent station at the North Pole (unlike the South Pole). The Earth's axis of rotation – and hence the position of the North Pole – was commonly believed to be fixed (relative to the surface of the Earth) until, in the 18th century, the mathematician Leonhard Euler predicted that the axis might wobble slightly.
The North Pole, also known as the Geographic North Pole, Celestial North Pole, or Terrestrial North Pole, is (subject to the caveats explained below) defined as the point in the Northern Hemisphere where the Earth's axis of rotation meets its surface. It should not be confused with the North Magnetic Pole. The Earth's axis of rotation – and hence the position of the North Pole – was commonly believed to be fixed (relative to the surface of the Earth) until, in the 18th century, the mathematician Leonhard Euler predicted that the axis might wobble slightly.
Arctic Map. The Arctic is a region of the planet, north of the Arctic Circle, and includes the Arctic Ocean, Greenland, Baffin Island, other smaller northern islands, and the far northern parts of Europe, Russia (Siberia), Alaska and Canada. 
Even further south, across the Southern Ocean, lies the continent of Antarctica. Antarctica is also a part of three hemispheres. Antarctica is located entirely in the Southern Hemisphere, but the Prime Meridian runs through the continent. All of Australia is located south of the equator, and east of the Prime Meridian. This means that Australia/Oceania is located in the Southern and Eastern Hemispheres. North of Australia, lies the largest continent in the world, Asia. Most of Asia is located in the Northern Hemisphere