Viewed 9871 times. We are ideally located in a private location a little north of the centre of Bridlington, two minutes from the north beach, Leisureworld, Gala bingo and 10 minutes from the Harbour and Spa Theatre. Bridlington is situated on the East Coast within easy reach of Hull, and historic York. The Pretoria guest house is situated on the South Side of Bridlington. We are approximately two minutes from the Spa theatre and Harbour, two minutes’ walk from the beach and ten minutes’ walk from Bridlington town centre with its many bars, restaurants and shops...
Bridlington. Bridlington is a holiday resort in Yorkshire in England, UK. The town, also called “Brid” for short, is situated on the East coast of Yorkshire, north of the Hull and the River Humber just south of Flamborough Head in Bridlington Bay. Bridlington is an ideal place to go for the day, weekend or for a holiday with the kids or for peace and quiet. Further north of Bridlington lies the differing seaside resorts. There is Edwardian Filey only 10 miles to the north with is 4 miles of golden sands and Filey Bigg sheltering the bay.
Little Eden Country Park is a idyllic holiday park which is located along Bridlington Bay Road leading to Carnaby village on the left hand side of the road, located 3 miles from Bridlington town centre and approximately one mile from Carnaby Village. 
The quiet East Riding village of Carnaby is just a mile or so up the lane from the park, whilst the seaside attractions of Bridlington itself are only a few minute’s drive away. When you want to relax, our holiday cottages in Bridlington are perfect too. Located in picturesque scenery at the foot of the Yorkshire Wolds, our park offers one of the best locations for holiday cottages in Bridlington. The beauty of the Wolds is a well-kept secret: the northern counterpart to the Cotswolds – but without the crowds.
Choose Bridlington Holiday Cottages for a great value break in Yorkshire’s glorious East Riding. Just two miles from the seaside attractions of Bridlington, our holiday cottages provide a relaxing base from which to discover the area’s glorious coast and countryside. The cottages are modern and well-equipped, and are set in a small and peaceful holiday park ideal for those wanting to get away from it all. Located in picturesque scenery at the foot of the Yorkshire Wolds, our park offers one of the best locations for holiday cottages in Bridlington. The beauty of the Wolds is a well-kept secret: the northern counterpart to the Cotswolds – but without the crowds.
Leisure Park. Set only a stones throw from the North Beach and Promenade of Bridlington offering miles of unspoilt golden sands, and within easy reach of East Yorkshire's finest countryside North Bay Leisure Park is an ideal location for Holiday Home Ownership. For latest park news and offers, sign up to our mailing list today...
Hopewell is a luxury, contemporary house for up to 12 guests in Bridlington's sought after South Bay, having sea views and being a minute's stroll to the blue flag beach just at the end of the road and a 5 minute stroll into town and the harbour. 
Sewerby Hall is situated 2 miles north of the seaside resort of Bridlington, on the East Yorkshire coast. The grade I listed country house is set in 50 acres of landscaped gardens in a cliff top location on the outskirts of Sewerby village.... 
Situated near Bridlington and close to sandy beaches with amazing coastal views of the Yorkshire Wolds, Barmston Beach Holiday Park is ideal for fun and relaxing family holidays. 
Little Eden is situated just outside Bridlington on the east coast of Yorkshire just 20 miles south of Scarborough. We’re easy to find just off the A165. 