1 Discover and create movement patterns that express information about the basic systems, organs, and processes of the human body. 2  Make inquiries, through research and movement experimentation, into the ways in which the body's systems work and how those systems interact.
They will work in pairs and in groups to make movement choices that communicate scientific concepts in creative movement, and make inquiries, through research and movement experimentation, into the ways in which the body's systems work and how those systems interact.
The muscular system is made up of tissues that work with the skeletal system to control movement of the body. Some muscles—like the ones in your arms and legs—are voluntary, meaning that you decide when to move them. Other muscles, like the ones in your stomach, heart, intestines and other organs, are involuntary.
One of the most important systems in your body, the nervous system is your body's control system. It sends, receives, and processes nerve impulses throughout the body. These nerve impulses tell your muscles and organs what to do and how to respond to the environment.
Chapter 16: Systems, Support, and Movement 585 Movement The works with the skeletal system to allow move-ment. Like all muscles, the muscles that produce movement are made upof individual cells called muscle fibers. These fibers contract and relax.Most of the muscles involved in moving the body work in pairs.
In this lesson, students will create movement patterns that express information about the basic systems, organs, and processes of the human body.
Students will: 1  Discover and create movement patterns that express information about the basic systems, organs, and processes of the human body. 2  Make inquiries, through research and movement experimentation, into the ways in which the body's systems work and how those systems interact.
The circulatory system is the body's transport system. It is made up of a group of organs that transport blood throughout the body. The heart pumps the blood and the arteries and veins transport it. Oxygen-rich blood leaves the left side of the heart and enters the biggest artery, called the aorta.
1 Make inquiries, through research and movement experimentation, into the ways in which the body's systems work and how those systems interact. 2  Work alone, in pairs, and/or in small groups to make movement choices that communicate scientific concepts in creative movement.