This article explains ClassPath in Java. What is ClassPath. From the word we understand that classpath is a path of a class. Yeah, that is correct; a classpath is a path for the compiler to identify which class or which package we use in our defined class. It provides the compiler a way to find classes or packages that are used in our class. 
The first is where the java compiler 'javac' is, the second is the java run time environment 'java' is, and the final '.' denotes your working directory, so that the compiler and jre will find where your programs are. To be safe, you may also want to append the above line to then end of your PATH variable. 
The PATH environment variable is typically something that the operating system uses to find executable files. See the system manuals for your platform for more information. The CLASSPATH environment variable is typically something that implementations of the Java Virtual Machine (JVM) use to find Java class files. See How is the CLASSPATH used to find my Java Classes for more information. 1  Post a comment. 2  Email Article. 3  Print Article.
In this case you can set your Java classpath in the META-INF/MANIFEST.MF file by using the Class-Path attribute. In short Class-path attribute in manifest file overrides classpath specified by-cp, -classpath or CLASSPATH environment variable. When you use the-jar command line option to run your program as an executable JAR, then the Java CLASSPATH environment variable will be ignored, and also the-cp and-classpath switches will be ignored and In this case you can set your j
Classpath is a parameter—set either on the command-line, or through an environment variable —that tells the Java Virtual Machine or the Java compiler where to look for user-defined classes and packages. Similar to the classic dynamic loading behavior, when executing Java programs, the Java Virtual Machine finds and loads classes lazily (it loads the bytecode of a class only when the class is first used).
Windows 7: This section explains how to use the PATH and CLASSPATH environment variables on Microsoft Windows, Solaris, and Linux. Consult the installation instructions included with your installation of the Java Development Kit (JDK) software bundle for current information. 
The CLASSPATH environment variable is set with the set command. Using set at the DOS prompt changes the current value of CLASSPATH. You can also use set in your startup file to specify a CLASSPATH at startup. The format is: where a path to a .zip or .jar file must terminate with the filename, and a path to a .class file must terminate with the directory name. The paths should begin with the letter specifying the drive, for example, C:\... DESCRIPTION. The CLASSPATH tells the Java Virtual Machine and other Java applications and tools where to find the class libraries. The class libraries that the CLASSPATH points to may be the JDK classes (contained in the classes.zip file in the lib folder) and/or any classes that you want to use.
Class paths to the .jar, .zip or .class files. Each classpath should end with a filename or directory depending on what you are setting the class path to: 1  For a .jar or .zip file that contains .class files, the class path ends with the name of the .zip or .jar file. The runtime tool java has a-cp option, as well. This option is an abbreviation for-classpath. For very special cases, both java and javac have options that let you change the path they use to find their own class libraries.
CLASSPATH. The CLASSPATH environment variable tells the Java Virtual Machine and other Java applications (for example, the Java tools located in the jdk1.1.x\bin directory) where to find the class libraries, including user-defined class libraries. DESCRIPTION. The CLASSPATH tells the Java Virtual Machine and other Java applications and tools where to find the class libraries. The class libraries that the CLASSPATH points to may be the JDK classes (contained in the classes.zip file in the lib folder) and/or any classes that you want to use.
The default class path is the current directory. Setting the CLASSPATH variable or using the-classpath command-line option overrides that default, so if you want to include the current directory in the search path, you must include  .  in the new settings. The runtime tool java has a-cp option, as well. This option is an abbreviation for-classpath. For very special cases, both java and javac have options that let you change the path they use to find their own class libraries.