Numbness is when you can't feel anything in part of your body, usually a patch of skin. Pins and needles are a tingling or prickling sensation that is often felt in hands or feet. Most numbness or pins and needles is due to pressure on nerves or the blood vessels that supply nerves. This often happens after you've been in an awkward position, like sitting cross-legged or may be the sign of a trapped nerve. Numbness or pins and needles can also be due to a trapped nerve. A slipped disc or back problem can put pressure on a nerve that travels from your back, down your leg and into your toes. A trapped nerve in the neck can also cause numbness or pins and needles anywhere from your neck, down your arms and into your fingers.
But for persistent paraesthesia and your doctor find that it is a sign of certain health condition (such as stroke or brain tumor), it’s important to keep monitoring this symptom! Sometime we can experience pins and needles sensation due to certain reasons. Sometime pins and needles condition is not only about numbness, burning, or tingling – it may also be followed with other symptoms which may include: 1  The affected site is more sensitive to touch. 2  Muscle spasms.
Temporary Pins and Needles is caused when pressure is applied to the nerves in a certain area (usually legs and arms but in this case hands) - you've leaned on this area … or something-so this limits the blood supply to the nerves and stops the nerves sending important messages to the brain. 
Paraesthesia. Pins and needles (also known as paraesthesiae) is a cold, burning, prickling or tingling sensation that is usually felt in the arms, legs, hands or feet. It can also happen in other parts of the body, such as the mouth and neck. The sensation is normally painless and can cause numbness or itching. 
Temporary pins and needles. Most people have temporary pins and needles from time to time. It happens when pressure is applied to a part of the body, which cuts off the blood supply to the nerves in that area. This prevents the nerves from sending important signals to the brain. Most cases of pins and needles are temporary and the sensation disappears after the pressure is taken off the affected area. See your GP if you constantly have pins and needles or if it keeps coming back. It may be a sign of a more serious underlying health condition.
You can get numbness/pins and needles by putting pressure on a part of your body, like wearing tight shoes or sitting on your foot. People with back pain, diabetics or people who use vibrating tools are more prone to develop the problem. Numbness or pins and needles can also be due to a trapped nerve. A slipped disc or back problem can put pressure on a nerve that travels from your back, down your leg and into your toes. A trapped nerve in the neck can also cause numbness or pins and needles anywhere from your neck, down your arms and into your fingers.
Pins and needles anxiety symptom description: You feel a pins and needles, tingling sensation on or in your arms, hands, fingers, toes, legs, feet, head, face, lips, tongue, stomach, or anywhere on or in the body. For example, you may feel a pins and needles feeling once and a while and not that often, feel it off and on, or feel it all the time. This symptom may precede, accompany, or follow an escalation of other anxiety sensations and symptoms, or occur by itself.
Pins and needles is a pricking, burning, tingling or numbing sensation that is most commonly felt in the arms, legs, hands or feet. It does not usually cause any pain, but it can cause numbness or itching. Pins and needles is often temporary, but it can sometimes be long-lasting (chronic). Most cases of pins and needles are temporary and the sensation disappears after the pressure is taken off the affected area. See your GP if you constantly have pins and needles or if it keeps coming back. It may be a sign of a more serious underlying health condition.