Answer: In Wi-Fi networking, bridging mode allows two or more wireless access points (APs) to communicate with each for the purpose of joining multiple LANs. Many Wi-Fi bridging mode products exist with varying levels of functionality. Some wireless bridges support only a single point-to-point connection to another AP. Wireless clients on bridged Wi-Fi networks generally share the same bandwidth as the bridge devices. Therefore, clients tend to perform slower in bridging mode than otherwise. In Wi-Fi, repeater mode is a variation on bridging.
1 Bridging (networking) , a packet forwarding technique used in computer networks. 2  Bus bridging, see Conventional PCI. 3  In electronic assembly, a solder bridge is an (unintended) electrical connection between two conductors by means of a small blob of solder. 
Mission Statement: Through the effective reuse of donated items, Bridging improves lives by providing quality furniture and household goods to those transitioning out of homelessness and poverty. To serve as many people in need as possible, we work with a network of over 150 referring agencies, including social service and nonprofit organizations, who refer clients to us. These partners verify there is a need with each household before they walk through our doors.
Bridging anticoagulation refers to giving a short-acting blood thinner, usually low-molecular-weight heparin given by subcutaneous injection for 10 to 12 days around the time of the surgery/procedure, when warfarin is interrupted and its anticoagulant effect is outside a therapeutic range. Bridging anticoagulation aims to reduce patients' risk for developing blood clots, such as stroke, but may also increase patients' risk for developing potentially serious bleeding complications after surgery.
In telecommunication networks, a bridge is a product that connects a local area network (LAN) to another local area network that uses the same protocol (for example, Ethernet or token ring). 
bridging. Cardiology A term for the systolic narrowing of the left anterior descending coronary artery seen by angiography as an isolated finding during cardiac catheterization or in Pts with CAD, left ventricular hypertrophy or hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. bridging. Etymology: AS, brycg. 1 a nursing technique of positioning a patient so that bony prominences are free of pressure on the mattress by using pads, bolsters of foam rubber, or pillows to distribute body weight over a larger surface.
Bridging, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization serving the greater Twin Cities, is the largest furniture bank in the United States. Through the effective reuse of donated items, we improve lives by providing quality furniture and household goods to those transitioning out of homelessness and poverty. To serve as many people in need as possible, we work with a network of over 150 referring agencies, including social service and nonprofit organizations, who refer clients to us. These partners verify there is a need with each household before they walk through our doors.
Bonding vs. Bridging. When I think of social capital, I think of a group, an organization or a coalition of groups that hold memberships of common interests, purposes and visions, where there is solidarity, reciprocity and collective strength, and which wields power and resources to forge collective benefits. Bridging in social capital is referred to as social networks between socially heterogeneous groups. Bridging allows different groups to share and exchange information, ideas and innovation and builds consensus among the groups representing diverse interests.
If one or more segments of the bridged network are wireless, it is known as wireless bridging. Bridging is distinct from routing, which allows multiple different networks to communicate independently while remaining separate. A network bridge is a network device that connects multiple network segments. In the OSI model, bridging is performed in the first two layers, below the network layer. There are four types of network bridging technologies: simple bridging, multiport bridging, learning or transparent bridging, and source route bridging. A is connected to bridge port 1, B is connected bridge port 2, C is connected to bridge port 3. A sends a frame addressed to B to the bridge. The bridge examines the source address of the frame and creates an address and port number entry for A in its forwarding table.