Assistant project managers assist project managers on various construction projects, including the building of homes, offices, schools, treatment plants, roads and bridges. They also read blueprints and analyze specs for jobs to ensure projects are accurately completed.
An assistant project manager’s specific duties often vary greatly depending on the industry and work environment. In cases where the project manager oversees a process, the assistant’s role may be limited to logistical duties and/or working strictly with information.
Job titles for construction project managers include construction manager, construction supervisor, and project engineer. As a construction project manager, you may be responsible for overseeing the building of commercial or residential structures, roads, or bridges.
An assistant project manager generally reports to and assists the project manager or director of a company or organization. Specific duties typically vary greatly by industry. Requirements for the position generally include strong communication skills, organizational ability, and computer skills.
To become a project assistant, you need to begin by determining if this career is right for you. If you are interested in an entry-level career with plenty of room for growth, and you enjoy working in a team environment, this career may be well suited for you.
An assistant project manager may work in an office, in the field, in his home, or in a combination of these locations. If working for a large company as a telecommuter, an assistant might perform all duties from home using the phone, email, and web conferencing tools.
A project assistant usually helps a project manager or a project director with the duties necessary to execute a job. In most cases, this includes clerical and administrative functions.
For a construction project to meet time and cost objectives, the construction project manager and his assistant must work as a team. An assistant construction manager works with his seniors to oversee the daily management, coordination, supervision and successful completion of projects.
An assistant construction manager is responsible for assuring the safety of employees and individuals living or working near the job site. She enforces the contractor’s safety policies along with federal and state regulations.