There are many forms of arthritis that are Autoimmune diseases Like for example rheumatoid arthritis's. This is a disease where the immune system of the body mistakenly attack … s tissue in joints and other organs and part of the body. An autoimmune disease occurs when the body's immune system starts fighting cells that belong in the body instead of fighting off organisms and substances alien to the body.
Some examples of autoimmune diseases are lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, scleroderma, and multiple sclerosis. An autoimmune disease occurs when the body's immune system starts fighting cells that belong in the body instead of fighting off organisms and substances alien to the body.
About Autoimmune Disease. More than 80 diseases occur as a result of the immune system attacking the body's own organs, tissues, and cells. Some of the more common autoimmune diseases include type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, and inflammatory bowel disease. Disease that results when the immune system mistakenly attacks the body's own tissues. Examples include multiple sclerosis, type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and systemic lupus erythematosus. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: NIH-National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)
Autoimmune Diseases. Autoimmune diseases can affect almost any part of the body, including the heart, brain, nerves, muscles, skin, eyes, joints, lungs, kidneys, glands, the digestive tract, and blood vessels. The classic sign of an autoimmune disease is inflammation, which can cause redness, heat, pain, and swelling.
1 People with lupus develop autoimmune antibodies that can attach to tissues throughout the body. 2  The joints, lungs, blood cells, nerves, and kidneys are commonly affected in lupus. 3  Treatment often requires daily oral prednisone, a steroid that reduces immune system function. 4  Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). 1 Vasculitis. 2  The immune system attacks and damages blood vessels in this group of autoimmune diseases. 3  Vasculitis can affect any organ, so symptoms vary widely and can occur almost anywhere in the body. 4  Treatment includes reducing immune system activity, usually with prednisone or another corticosteroid
Autoimmune diseases arise when the immune system attacks one or more of the body's normal constituents as if they were invaders. When the immune system fails to recognize self it may produce immune cells or antibodies (called autoantibodies) that target its own cells, tissues, and/or organs. In a few types of autoimmune disease (such as rheumatic fever), a virus or infection with bacteria triggers an immune response and the antibodies or immune cells called T-cells attack normal cells because some part of their structure resembles a part of the infecting microorganism.
Autoimmune Disease. Disease that results when the immune system mistakenly attacks the body's own tissues. Examples include multiple sclerosis, type 1 diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, and systemic lupus erythematosus. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: NIH-National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases)
Autoimmune disease: An illness that occurs when the body tissues are attacked by its own immune system. The immune system is a complex organization within the body that is designed normally to seek and destroy invaders of the body, including infectious agents. Patients with autoimmune diseases frequently have unusual antibodies circulating in their blood that target their own body tissues.