The Cowardly Lion is a character from the fictional Land of Oz created by American author L. Frank Baum, in his 1900 children's novel The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, and its several sequel books writtren by Baum as well. An original Cowardly Lion costume from The Wizard of Oz was packed away after filming and forgotten for decades. It was found barely in time to be included in the landmark 1970 Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer auction, where it sold for $2400 to a California chiropractor.
Lahr's most iconic role was that of the Cowardly Lion in Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer 's 1939 adaptation of The Wizard of Oz. Lahr was signed to play the role on July 25, 1938. He starred opposite Judy Garland, Ray Bolger, Jack Haley, Frank Morgan, and Margaret Hamilton. An original Cowardly Lion costume worn by Lahr in The Wizard of Oz is in the holdings of The Comisar Collection, which is also the largest collection of television artifacts and memorabilia in the world.
he was also the spokesman for Lays potato chips (betcha you can't eat just one). Bert Lahr (August 13 1895 – December 4 1967), born Irving Lahrheim, was the actor who portrayed the Cowardly Lion and the farmhand Zeke in MGM 's 1939 classic The Wizard of Oz, and appeared in many other MGM Films. Bert Lahr as the Cowardly Lion in the 1939 film. 
The Cowardly Lion is a fictional animal character created by L. Frank Baum, author and inventor of the Oz legacy. He is introduced in Baum's first Oz book titled The Wonderful Wizard of Oz, published in 1900. Actor Burt Lahr was a known Comedian and stared in many Hollywood films before Oz. Bert Lahr as the Cowardly Lion in the 1939 film. Bert Lahr is justifiably famous for his portrayal of the iconic Lion in the 1939 MGM film The Wizard of Oz. Lahr's other role was Aunt Em and Uncle Henry's farm worker, Zeke
Bert Lahr played the Cowardly Lion in the 1939 version of The Wizard of Oz. In the original 1900 book edition of 'The Wizard of Oz', the Cowardly Lion receives a green-colored container from the Wizard.
Bert Lahr, born Irving Lahrheim (August 13, 1895 – December 4, 1967), was an American iconic actor, particularly of stage and film and comedian. Lahr is principally known for his role as the Cowardly Lion, as well as his counterpart Kansas farmworker Zeke in The Wizard of Oz (1939). He was well known for his explosive humor, but also adapted well to dramatic roles and his work in burlesque, vaudeville, and on Broadway. An original Cowardly Lion costume worn by Lahr in The Wizard of Oz is in the holdings of The Comisar Collection, which is also the largest collection of television artifacts and memorabilia in the world.
In the rest of Baum's Oz series, the Lion never again played a major role. In later books, The Cowardly Lion often accompanies Dorothy on her adventures. He is Princess Ozma 's chief guardian on state occasions, and he and the Hungry Tiger pull Ozma's chariot. An original Cowardly Lion costume from The Wizard of Oz was packed away after filming and forgotten for decades. It was found barely in time to be included in the landmark 1970 Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer auction, where it sold for $2400 to a California chiropractor.
Actor | Soundtrack | Writer. Fittingly known to be a Leo for his horoscope, Bert Lahr is always remembered as the Cowardly Lion in (and the farmer Zeke) The Wizard of Oz (1939). But during his acting career, he has been known for being in burlesque, vaudeville, and Broadway. 
In the classic 1939 movie The Wizard of Oz, the Cowardly Lion was a humanoid biped and played by Bert Lahr, a popular vaudeville and Broadway star, with many of Lahr's trademark mannerisms deliberately worked into the film. An original Cowardly Lion costume from The Wizard of Oz was packed away after filming and forgotten for decades. It was found barely in time to be included in the landmark 1970 Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer auction, where it sold for $2400 to a California chiropractor.