Liver cancer is a condition that happens when normal cells in the liver become abnormal and grow out of control into cancer. Malignant or cancerous cells that arise out of liver cells are called hepatocellular carcinoma, and cancer that arises in the ducts of the liver is called cholangiocarcinoma. Liver Cancer Symptoms and Signs. Symptoms of liver cancer arise most commonly in the later stages of the disease and include weight loss, nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, fatigue, and abdominal swelling.
Liver cancer symptoms. The symptoms of liver cancer may be different for each person and any one of these symptoms may be caused by other, benign conditions. When present, common liver cancer symptoms may include: 1  Weight loss not associated with changes in diet. 2  Decrease in appetite or a feeling of fullness after a small meal. 3  Nausea and vomiting not associated with other known conditions. 4  General weakness and/or fatigue that is persistent, ongoing weakness or fatigue
Liver Cancer (Definition). Cancer of the liver can be a primary cancer (hepatocellular cancer) & is more common in those exposed to hepatitis b or hepatitis c or cirrhosis from other causes. It can also be a secondary cancer, spread from another site such as colon, stomach, lung, etc. 
Liver cancer or hepatic cancer (from the Greek hēpar, meaning liver) is a cancer that originates in the liver. Primary liver cancer is globally the sixth most frequent cancer, and the second leading cause of cancer death. In 2012 it occurred in 782,000 people and resulted in 746,000 deaths. Higher rates of liver cancer occur where hepatitis B and C are common, including East-Asia and sub-Saharan Africa.
Metastatic cancer in the liver is a condition where cancer from other organs has spread to the liver. Here the liver cells are basically normal. Metastatic cancer has the same name and same type of cancer cells as the original cancer. The most common cancers that spread to the liver are breast, colon, bladder, kidney, ovary, pancreas, stomach, uterus, and lungs. Liver Cancer Symptoms and Signs. Symptoms of liver cancer arise most commonly in the later stages of the disease and include weight loss, nausea, vomiting, loss of appetite, fatigue, and abdominal swelling.
1 Adult primary liver cancer is a disease in which malignant (cancer) cells form in the tissues of the liver. 2  There are two types of adult primary liver cancer. 3  Having hepatitis or cirrhosis can affect the risk of adult primary liver cancer. 1 There are two types of adult primary liver cancer. 2  Having hepatitis or cirrhosis can affect the risk of adult primary liver cancer. 3  Signs and symptoms of adult primary liver cancer include a lump or pain on the right side.
) is often used to describe the spread of a liver cancer precisely, doctors use a more practical system to determine treatment options. Liver cancers are categorized as: potentially resectable or transplantable, unresectable, inoperable with only local disease, and advanced. 
Terminal liver cancer occurs when the cancer has spread outside of the liver to other vital organs in the body. It can be hard for the friends, family and caretakers to deal with the death of someone who is in the final stages of liver cancer. When a patient is approaching death because of terminal liver cancer, his body temperature likely will spike. This is the body's natural way of shutting down. In some cases, the fever can climb higher than 104 degrees F.
Some risk factors for liver cancer are: 1  Other liver diseases, including hepatitis B or C (viral diseases that attack the liver) or cirrhosis (a disease that causes scarring). 2  A family history of hepatitis or liver cancer (someone in your family has it). 3  Obesity. The following signs occur when the liver swells. Please note: liver cancer is only one reason that livers can swell. 1  A lump below the rib cage on the right side of the abdomen. 2  Pain near the right shoulder or on the right side of the abdomen. 3  Jaundice (a disease that causes skin to yellow). 4  Unexplained weight loss. 5  Fatigue.