Naturopathic medicine (or naturopathy) is based on the belief that the body can heal itself. It aims to improve health, prevent disease, and treat illness through the use of organic foods and exercise; a healthy, balanced lifestyle; and the use of treatments from other areas of complementary medicine. Two common concerns about naturopathy are the use of fasting and a bias against vaccines. 1  Talk with your MD before fasting. 2  Fasting means not eating or drinking, or consuming only liquids for a period of time. 3  Fasting can be dangerous, especially if you have a disease such as diabetes.
Naturopathy, frequently called naturopathic medicine, is a system of treatment and healthcare that supports the body’s innate ability to heal itself through nutrition, exercise and life-style advice. 
Naturopathy, or Naturopathic Medicine, is a distinct, integrated system of primary health care offered by licensed physicians. It consists of the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of human disorders by the therapeutic use of natural methods and materials. Naturopathic medicine is practiced either as a primary system of medical care, or as a complementary adjunct to conventional medical treatment. The goal of Naturopathic Medicine is to develop optimal wellness for each patient, and to teach the principles of ideal health.
House of Delegates Position Paper, Amended 2011 (Click here to download PDF). Naturopathic medicine is a distinct primary health care profession, emphasizing prevention, treatment, and optimal. health through the use of therapeutic methods and substances that encourage individuals’ inherent self-healing. 
Naturopathy. A distinct system of primary health care-an art, science, philosophy, and practice of diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of illness. Naturopathic medicine is distinguished by the principles upon which its practice is based. The American Association of Naturopathic Physicians (AANP) defines naturopathic medicine as: A distinct system of primary health care-an art, science, philosophy, and practice of diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of illness.
Naturopathy or naturopathic medicine is a form of alternative medicine employing a wide array of natural modalities, including homeopathy, herbalism, and acupuncture, as well as diet (nutrition) and lifestyle counseling. Naturopaths have been accused of being charlatans and practicing quackery. Much of the ideology and methodological underpinnings of naturopathy are based on a belief in vitalism and self-healing, and so are in conflict with evidence-based medicine.
Naturopathy—also called naturopathic medicine—is a medical system that has evolved from a combination of traditional practices and health care approaches popular in Europe during the 19th century. In the United States, naturopathy is practiced by naturopathic physicians, traditional naturopaths, and other health care providers who also offer naturopathic services.
Naturopathic medicine is a science-based tradition that promotes wellness by identifying the unique aspects of each patient and then employing non-toxic natural therapies to restore his or her physiological, psychological, and structural balance. The American Association of Naturopathic Physicians (AANP) defines naturopathic medicine as: A distinct system of primary health care-an art, science, philosophy, and practice of diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of illness. Naturopathic medicine is distinguished by the principles upon which its practice is based
Naturopaths claim the ancient Greek Father of Medicine, Hippocrates, as the first advocate of naturopathic medicine, before the term existed. Naturopathy has its roots in the 19th century Nature Cure movement of Europe. Naturopaths have been accused of being charlatans and practicing quackery. Much of the ideology and methodological underpinnings of naturopathy are based on a belief in vitalism and self-healing, and so are in conflict with evidence-based medicine.