These regions are dominated by Earth's polar ice caps, the northern resting on the Arctic Ocean and the southern on the continent of Antarctica. Other planets and natural satellites in the solar system have interesting quirks about their polar regions. Earth's Moon is thought to contain substantial deposits of ice in deep craters in its polar regions, which never see direct sunlight.
The Topic: Polar Regions Easier-The polar regions are the icy areas around the North and South Pole. The Arctic and Antarctic are in the polar regions. Polar bears, penguins, seals, whales, and walrus are a few of the wildlife that live in these very cold regions. Harder-The cold polar regions are found on the far south and north ends of the globe.
We refer to the polar ice cap biome as the regions of the planet covered by ice most of the year. This includes large portions of the arctic and antarctic. Defining an Ice cap: A polar ice cap or polar ice sheet is a high-latitude region of a planet or moon that is covered in ice. 
The southern polar region or the southern end of the earth's axis is called the South Pole. It was first reached by Roald Amundsen, a Norwegian explorer, in 1911 Antarctica. Today the Ceremonial South Pole or central point of this Polar Region is marked by the Amundsen-Scott South Pole Station. The weather is very cold, far below freezing temperatures, all year around in both North and South Pole. Bitter cold winds whip the earth's Polar Regions and so, these vast and remote territories are difficult to access. Weather plays a wild game in the Polar Regions.
© cec72 - Fotolia.com. Polar Regions Polar Regions are the coldest places on earth. The Arctic of the north is partly frozen ocean surrounded by mostly barren, and often frozen, land. The south's Antarctic is an ice covered continent that is surrounded by stormy oceans. Although the two polar regions are similar in many ways, the animal life between them differs. In the Arctic many animals live on the land. In the Antarctic the animals live almost entirely where the ice meets the ocean.
On the other side, the Arctic is defined as a partially snow-covered land area around the North Pole. Taking into geo-political features, Arctic region signifies parts of Russia, Alaska (United States), Canada, Greenland (a territory of Denmark), Iceland and Scandinavia that is spread over Norway, Sweden and Finland. The weather is very cold, far below freezing temperatures, all year around in both North and South Pole. Bitter cold winds whip the earth's Polar Regions and so, these vast and remote territories are difficult to access. Weather plays a wild game in the Polar Regions.
The Arctic (North Pole). Polar Regions are the ice-covered and beautiful areas around the far south and north ends of the globe. These two freezing global terminal points are recognised as the North and South Pole and the continental regions of Arctic and Antarctica settle in these two polar coordinates respectively. The weather is very cold, far below freezing temperatures, all year around in both North and South Pole. Bitter cold winds whip the earth's Polar Regions and so, these vast and remote territories are difficult to access. Weather plays a wild game in the Polar Regions.
There are many settlements in Earth's north polar region. Countries with claims to Arctic regions are: the United States (Alaska), Canada, Denmark (Greenland), Norway, Finland, Sweden, Iceland, and Russia. Other planets and natural satellites in the solar system have interesting quirks about their polar regions. Earth's Moon is thought to contain substantial deposits of ice in deep craters in its polar regions, which never see direct sunlight.
The ends of the earth. Bitter cold winds whip the earth's polar regions, the Arctic in the north and the Antarctic in the south. The core of the Arctic is a great ocean-the Arctic Ocean-parts of which are covered all year round by ice that drifts about the North Pole. The Arctic Ocean has many thousands of big and small islands and is almost surrounded by land: the northern parts of Europe, Asia and North America.