The deficit-lesion method for studyingbrain function  Before functional neuroimaging techniques became available,the only ways to study brain function were  Animal research.  The deficit-lesion method: Studying the behavior of braindamaged patients and determining the site of the damagein a post-mortem analysis. The deficit-lesion method for studyingbrain function  Since language is a uniquely human capability, the history ofthe cognitive neuroscience of language is deeply rooted indeficit-lesion studies.
Using animal subjects gives researchers the ability to lesion specific areas in the subjects, allowing them to quickly acquire a large group of subjects. An example of such a study is the lesioning of rat hippocampi to establish the role of the hippocampus in object recognition and object recency. If a lesion is caused by a tumor it will be classified as malignant or benign. Lesions may be classified by the shape they form, as is the case with many ulcers, which can have a bullseye or 'target' appearance.
A lesion is an area of tissue that has been damaged through injury or disease. So a brain lesion is an area of injury or disease within the brain. While the definition sounds simple, understanding brain lesions can be complicated. That's because there are many types of brain lesions. 
MRI showing a brain lesion. A brain lesion is an abnormality seen on a brain-imaging test, such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or a computerized tomography (CT) scan. On CT or MRI scans, brain lesions appear as dark or light spots that don't look like normal brain tissue. Usually, a brain lesion is an incidental finding unrelated to the condition or symptom that led to the imaging test in the first place. A brain lesion may involve small to large areas of your brain, and the severity of the underlying condition may range from relatively minor to life-threatening. 1  Causes
Effects Edit. Lesions or ablation in psychology or an ablation experiment or lesion experiment is the removal of tissue to explore its function and was a basic research methodology in physiological psychology in the earlier part of the 20th century. Studies show there is a correlation between lesion in the brain and language, speech, and category-specific disorders. However, lesions in Broca's and Wernicke's areas are not found to alter language comprehension.
A lesion is any abnormality in the tissue of an organism (in layman's terms, damage), usually caused by disease or trauma. Lesion is derived from the Latin word laesio meaning injury. If a lesion is caused by a tumor it will be classified as malignant or benign. Lesions may be classified by the shape they form, as is the case with many ulcers, which can have a bullseye or 'target' appearance.
Lesion studies (i.e., studies of patients with deficits that follow specific brain damage) and functional neuroimaging studies of normal, healthy subjects provide complementary but different types of information regarding brain-behavior relationships. One type of combination might be that (1) lesions to a cortical area impair a given cognitive process and that (2) the cognitive process, when engaged by intact subjects, evokes neural activity in the same cortical area.
A lesion is any abnormality in the tissue of an organism (in layman's terms, damage), usually caused by disease or trauma. Lesion is derived from the Latin word laesio which means injury. Within psychology the term ablation or brain lesion is used with specific reference to experimentally induced damage or partial removal of animal brains for research purposes. Studies show there is a correlation between lesion in the brain and language, speech, and category-specific disorders. However, lesions in Broca's and Wernicke's areas are not found to alter language comprehension.