• The vaccinations of young calves should be carried out before young cattle become infected. When the calves are from cows vaccinated in late pregnancy, vaccination should commence at about 3 months of age. Otherwise calves can be vaccinated from 1 month.
• If unvaccinated stock are brought onto the property, they should be vaccinated on arrival with two injections of leptospirosis vaccine 4–6 weeks apart, followed by an annual booster. • The vaccine is always injected under the skin and can be administered to lactating cattle.
However, it is often more practical to give these vaccines at 6 weeks of age with the second dose at 12 weeks of age, negating the need for the third dose. The vaccines that are not effective in the presence of maternal antibody should be given at 6 months of age, with a second dose given 4 to 6 weeks later. It is possible to use these vaccines earlier than 6 months of age, but the two shots need to be repeated at 6 months of age.
Ultravac 5-in-1. The 5 in 1 vaccine includes five clostridia serotypes which protect against Tetanus, Blackleg, Blacks Disease, Malignant Oedema and Enterotoxaemia. This vaccine should be given to calves at 6-8 weeks of age, then a booster given 4-6 weeks later.
Calves at high risk of exposure should be vaccinated twice 4-6weeks apart before they are 6months old. They then require a 3rd booster injection at 6 months of age due to the possibility of maternal antibodies interfering with the initial 2 injections. Calves over 6months old need two vaccinations, 4-6weeks apart.
1 - A second dose should be given four–six weeks later. - 2  Calves vaccinated before six months of age (to protect against pomona redwater) require revaccinating at six months, and again four–six weeks later, as maternal antibodies may interfere with acquiring long-term immunity before six months of age.
Some vaccines will reduce or even eliminate shedding of leptospirosis organisms in urine. • While the general recommendation is to revaccinate cattle herds every 12 months, some herds which may be at a high risk of becoming infected should be vaccinated more frequently – every 6 months.