Mechanically separated poultry (MSP) is a paste-like and batter-like poultry product produced by forcing bones, with attached edible tissue, through a sieve or similar device under high pressure to separate bone from the edible tissue. However, it must be labeled as mechanically separated chicken or turkey in the product's ingredients statement. The final rule became effective November 4, 1996. Hot dogs can contain any amount of mechanically separated chicken or turkey. In 1982, a final rule published by FSIS (the Food Safety and Inspection Service) on mechanically separated meat said it was safe and established a standard of identity for the food product
Mechanically separated chicken. Mechanically separated poultry is a paste-like and batter-like poultry product produced by forcing bones, with attached edible tissue, through a sieve or similar device under high pressure to separate bone from the edible tissue. This photo has been going around over the last week or so. It’s a picture of mechanically separated chicken. Giant processing plants (like Tyson’s) go through a lot of chicken in a day. After removing the breasts, thighs, wings, and drumsticks, you’re left with scraps that no one is going to actively seek out.
MYTH: Mechanically separated chicken is used to make chicken nuggets. FACT: Mechanically separated chicken has been used in poultry products since 1969. It is used primarily as an ingredient in frankfurters, lunch meat or other processed products. It is NOT typically used in chicken nuggets or patties, and it is not sold directly to consumers.
Mechanically separated meat has been used in certain meat and meat products, such as hot dogs and bologna sausage, since the late 1960s. For the production of chicken and turkey MSM, most of the time, breast carcasses are used as they still contain parts of breast meat. Chicken MDM Frozen example. Questions arose in the 1980s as to the safety of mechanically separated meat. In 1982, a report published by U.S. Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) on mechanically separated meat said it was safe and established a standard of identity for the food product.
Follow. Mechanically separated meat (MSM), also known as mechanically recovered/reclaimed meat (MRM), is a paste-like meat product produced by forcing beef, pork, turkey or chicken bones, with attached edible meat, under high pressure through a sieve or similar device to separate the bone from the edible meat tissue. 
Mechanically separated poultry (i.e., chicken, turkey) is a paste-like and batter-like product produced by forcing the bones and attached edible tissue through a sieve or similar device to separate the bone from the edible poultry tissue. Industry uses this product in the formulation of other poultry products. 
Contrary to what has been claimed, however, mechanically separated chicken is not typically found in fast food items such as chicken nuggets and chicken patties, according to MeatSafety.org, a website maintained by the American Meat Institute (a trade association). Say hello to mechanically separated chicken. It’s what all fast-food chicken is made from-things like chicken nuggets and patties. Also, the processed frozen chicken in the stores is made from it. Basically, the entire chicken is smashed and pressed through a sieve-bones, eyes, guts, and all.
“Mechanically separated meat is a paste-like and batter-like meat product produced by forcing bones, with attached edible meat, under high pressure through a sieve or similar device to separate the bone from the edible meat tissue.” ~ USDA (United States Department of Agriculture) website. Forcing bones. 
Mechanically separated poultry is a product made by removing meat from chicken or turkey bones by using screens and filters to remove the bones and bone chips and keep the meat. Mechanically separated poultry has been used in poultry products since 1969. Yes. Like all meat and poultry products, mechanically separated poultry is regulated and inspected by USDA. Products containing MSP must declare it as an ingredient. Consumers can find more information at http://www.usda.gov/ .