Growing Coleus Plants. Coleus is probably one of the easiest plants to grow and propagate. In fact, the plants root so easily that you can even start cuttings in a glass of water. They can also be propagated by seed indoors about 8-10 weeks prior to your last expected spring frost. 
Coleus is very tender annual, and are susceptible to even a light frost. If you are planning to bring them indoors, do so well before the first frost. In the spring, make sure to leave them indoors, until all danger of frost is past. When bringing Coleus plants indoors, leaf drop is a common plant problem. Covering them with glass or plastic will raise the humidity, and help them to root. Days to Germination: 7 - 14. Coleus Plant Care and Maintenance: Contrary to popular belief, Coleus plants thrive in full sunshine.
Planting and Care. Coleus has long been considered a shade plant but the best leaf color is achieved with morning sun and some degree of afternoon shade. Many varieties do well in both shade and part-sun. Some can take quite a bit of sun as long as they are not allowed to dry out. Overwintering coleus plants as houseplants is another way to get more plants. Temperatures near 70 degrees F. are required. Rotate plants and pinch back as needed to maintain form. Use grow lights to provide adequate light. By planting a single variety, such as Redhead, you can get dramatic effects.
Coleus are also quite striking when they are planted in a container and grown as a house plant. By removing the flower spikes as they develop, and keeping the plant pinched back, the Coleus can be kept growing as a perennial for several seasons. These plants are a member of the nettle family but they are also a mint. Cookies! Coleus plants are durable and easy to grow. They are best known for their bright colors, and variety of foliage forms. Technically, they are a tender perennial but they are usually considered an annual plant by growers and seed producers.
If you like a neighbor or a friends' Coleus plant, ask them if you can take a cutting or two. Select healthy, new growth. Place the cuttings in soft, rich soil. Keep the soil moist but not wet at all times. Covering them with glass or plastic will raise the humidity, and help them to root. Days to Germination: 7 - 14. Coleus Plant Care and Maintenance: Contrary to popular belief, Coleus plants thrive in full sunshine.
Grow them in water (optional). Most coleus cuttings will grow in a glass of water. Change the water every other day, keep the plant in bright, indirect sunlight, and transplant the coleus to a pot once you notice root growth. The soil method below works just as well. Take cuttings from adult plants, or purchase them. To take a coleus cutting, choose a branch without a bloom or bud at the tip. Cut directly below a leaf node, so the cutting is 4–6 in. (10–15 cm) long. Cuttings are also available for purchase directly, and typically come with a small root ball already developed
Raising coleus from seed is relatively easy. Plan to sow them indoors, eight to 12 weeks before the last frost date in your area. Because seeds require light to germinate, sow them on the surface. Be sure to monitor water levels carefully. Overwintering coleus plants as houseplants is another way to get more plants. Temperatures near 70 degrees F. are required. Rotate plants and pinch back as needed to maintain form. Use grow lights to provide adequate light. By planting a single variety, such as Redhead, you can get dramatic effects.
Plant them twelve inches apart in rich, moist, well-drained soil with a neutral or slightly alkaline pH. Feed monthly with a liquid all purpose (10-10-10) fertilizer. Pinch the center stems out when the plants are 4 to 6 inches tall to induce bushier growth, and be sure to pick off the flower spikes as they form. Cookies! Coleus plants are durable and easy to grow. They are best known for their bright colors, and variety of foliage forms. Technically, they are a tender perennial but they are usually considered an annual plant by growers and seed producers.
How to Grow Coleus. Many of the new coleus varities, such as Sunset Boulevard, feature warm colors. From the National Gardening Bureau. G ARDEN designers know that when it comes to annuals, it's not just about the flowers — foliage matters, too. And when it comes to foliage, coleus tops the list. Overwintering coleus plants as houseplants is another way to get more plants. Temperatures near 70 degrees F. are required. Rotate plants and pinch back as needed to maintain form. Use grow lights to provide adequate light. By planting a single variety, such as Redhead, you can get dramatic effects.