Hepatitis Overview. Viral hepatitis, including hepatitis A, hepatitis B, and hepatitis C, are distinct diseases that affect the liver and have different hepatitis symptoms and treatments. Other causes of hepatitis include recreational drugs and prescription medications. Hepatitis type is determined by laboratory tests. 
Viral hepatitis is a general name for several forms of hepatitis that are caused by a virus. Viral hepatitis is the most common type of hepatitis, a group of serious diseases that cause inflammation of the liver and liver damage. Viral hepatitis is often called infectious hepatitis, and the viruses that cause it are contagious and can be passed from person to person. Viral hepatitis includes hepatitis A, hepatitis B, hepatitis C, hepatitis D, and hepatitis E. Each of these types of viral hepatitis are caused by the hepatitis virus of the same name, such as the hepatitis A virus. The most common forms of viral hepatitis in the U.S. are hepatitis A, hepatitis B, and hepatitis C.
1 Viral hepatitis types B and C can cause chronic hepatitis. 2  Symptoms of acute viral hepatitis include fatigue, flu-like symptoms, dark urine, light-colored stools, fever, and jaundice; however, acute viral hepatitis may occur with minimal symptoms that go unrecognized. 1 Those at risk for viral hepatitis B and C include workers in the health care profession, people with multiple sexual partners, intravenous drug abusers, and people with hemophilia. 2  Blood transfusion is a rare cause of viral
Symptoms: Symptoms of hepatitis can include: fever, fatigue, loss of appetite, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, dark urine, grey-colored stools, joint pain, and jaundice. Many people with hepatitis do not have symptoms and do not know they are infected. “Hepatitis” means inflammation of the liver. The liver is a vital organ that processes nutrients, filters the blood, and fights infections. When the liver is inflamed or damaged, its function can be affected. Heavy alcohol use, toxins, some medications, and certain medical conditions can cause hepatitis.
Some people with viral hepatitis have no signs of the infection. Symptoms, if they do appear, can include: 1  Jaundice (JOHN-duhs), which is when the skin and whites of the eyes turn yellow. 2  Low-grade fever. 3  Headache. 4  Muscle aches. 5  Tiredness. 6  Loss of appetite. 7  Nausea. 8  Vomiting. 
1 All hepatitis viruses can cause acute hepatitis. 2  Viral hepatitis types B and C can cause chronic hepatitis. 3  Symptoms of acute viral hepatitis include fatigue, flu-like symptoms, dark urine, light-colored stools, fever, and jaundice; however, acute viral hepatitis may occur with minimal symptoms that go unrecognized. 1 Those at risk for viral hepatitis B and C include workers in the health care profession, people with multiple sexual partners, intravenous drug abusers, and people with hemophilia. 2  Blood transfusion is a rare cause of viral
Complications of viral hepatitis can be serious, even life-threatening, and include the development of chronic viral hepatitis, cirrhosis, and increased risk of liver cancer, and liver failure, and death. Symptoms of Viral Hepatitis: Introduction. Symptoms of viral hepatitis can differ between individuals depending on such variables as the specific type of viral hepatitis, age, medical history, the presence of complications, coexisting diseases, and general health.
Symptoms common to most forms of viral hepatitis include flu-like symptoms, fever, headache, nausea, muscle aches and jaundice, a yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes. Young children often have no symptoms of hepatitis A. Symptoms of Viral Hepatitis: Introduction. Symptoms of viral hepatitis can differ between individuals depending on such variables as the specific type of viral hepatitis, age, medical history, the presence of complications, coexisting diseases, and general health.
Worldwide, viral hepatitis is the most common cause of liver inflammation. Other causes include autoimmune diseases and ingestion of toxic substances (notably alcohol), certain medications (such as paracetamol), some industrial organic solvents, and plants. 