Cardiac muscle cells have a branched shape so that each cell is in contact with three of four other cardiac muscle cells. Together all of the cardiac muscle cells in the heart form a giant network connected end to end. The passage of signals from cell to cell allows cardiac muscle tissue to contract very quickly in a wave-like pattern to effectively pump blood throughout the body. Another feature that is unique to cardiac muscle tissue is autorhythmicity.
Coordinated contractions of cardiac muscle cells in the heart propel blood out of the atria and ventricles to the blood vessels of the left/body/systemic and right/lungs/pulmonary circulatory systems. This complex mechanism illustrates systole of the heart. The cells that constitute cardiac muscle, called cardiomyocytes or myocardiocytes, contain only three nuclei. The myocardium is the muscle tissue of the heart, and forms a thick middle layer between the outer epicardium layer and the inner endocardium layer.
The middle layer of the heart wall is the myocardium, which is the cardiac muscle – a layer of involuntary striated muscle tissue surrounded by a framework of collagen. The myocardium is also supplied with blood vessels, and nerve fibers by way of the epicardium that help to regulate the heart rate. The heart functions as a pump in the circulatory system to provide a continuous circulation of blood throughout the body. This circulation consists of the systemic circulation to and from the body and the pulmonary circulation to and from the lungs.
Adorable animal families that will make you aww. The cardiac muscle is the heart, responsible for pumping blood throughout the body. It is made up of cardiac muscle and is the only place in the body where such muscle is found. All the other muscles in the body are composed of either skeletal muscle or smooth muscle. The most muscular part of the heart is its middle layer, called the myocardium, which is mainly responsible for its contractions. 
The cardiac muscle requires a special electrical system for sending the correct signals, at the appropriate time, to function properly. Electrical signals that lead to contraction, originate in the wall of the right atrium, where the heart's pacemaker (sinoatrial node) is. The heart is mainly composed of cardiac muscle, hence, this muscle plays an important role in the functioning of the heart. Intercalated cells in this muscle help in the contraction of multiple cells. As mentioned, our heartbeats are an outcome of the constant contraction of the cardiac muscle.
The heart is a muscular organ in humans and other animals, which pumps blood through the blood vessels of the circulatory system. Blood provides the body with oxygen and nutrients, and also assists in the removal of metabolic wastes. The heart is located in the middle compartment of the mediastinum in the chest. The heart functions as a pump in the circulatory system to provide a continuous circulation of blood throughout the body. This circulation consists of the systemic circulation to and from the body and the pulmonary circulation to and from the lungs.
An isolated cardiac muscle cell, beating. Cardiac muscle (heart muscle) is involuntary striated muscle that is found in the walls and histological foundation of the heart, specifically the myocardium. Cardiac muscle is one of three major types of muscle, the others being skeletal and smooth muscle. The cells that constitute cardiac muscle, called cardiomyocytes or myocardiocytes, contain only three nuclei. The myocardium is the muscle tissue of the heart, and forms a thick middle layer between the outer epicardium layer and the inner endocardium layer.
The human heart is an organ that pumps blood throughout the body via the circulatory system, supplying oxygen and nutrients to the tissues and removing carbon dioxide and other wastes. Deoxygenated blood returns via veins to the venae cavae, re-entering the heart's right atrium. Of course, the heart is also a muscle, so it needs a fresh supply of oxygen and nutrients, too, Phillips said. The cardiovascular system circulates blood from the heart to the lungs and around the body via blood vessels.
Cardiac muscle tissue is an extremely specialized form of muscle tissue that has evolved to pump blood throughout the body. In fact, cardiac muscle is only found in the heart and makes up the bulk of the heart’s mass. The passage of signals from cell to cell allows cardiac muscle tissue to contract very quickly in a wave-like pattern to effectively pump blood throughout the body. Another feature that is unique to cardiac muscle tissue is autorhythmicity.