Introduction The diagram here shows that visual stimuli activate a structure called the primary visual cortex. The activation is in a fold in the cortex called the calcarine sulcus. This activation, on the right side of the brain, only occurs when a visual stimulus appears on the subject's left. In this session we will learn 1) how the signals from the eye reach the primary visual cortex, 2) what cells in this area do with the signals they receive from the eye, and 3) where signals go from here. Optic chiasm Images seen on one side are processed by the opposite side of the brain.
Introduction Here we see that visual stimuli activate a structure called primary visual cortex. The activation is around a fold in the cortex called the calcarine sulcus. This activation, on the right side of the brain, only occurs when a visual stimulus appears on the subject's left. Primary Visual Cortex (area V1) LGN projects to the primary visual cortex located at the back of the head, mostly on the medial (inside) side. Primary visual cortex has many names: V1, area 17, and striate cortex.
The receptive field size of neurons in primary visual cortex depends strongly on the stimulus contrast. The size can be more than two times larger when measured with low contrast stimuli than when measured with high contrast stimuli. Figure 1: Receptive field sizes of neurons in the primary visual cortex (V1) and inferotemporal cortex (IT) of a primate. The receptive fields are illustrated in dotted lines and the sizes are measured in visual degrees.
For example, simple cells in the visual cortex of the domestic cat (Felis catus), respond to edges – a feature which is more likely to occur in objects and organisms in the environment. Certain pretectal thalamic neurons, type TH3, showed a preference for big moving objects and the anti-worm configuration of moving bar stimuli. It is suggested that the selectivity of tectal prey feature detectors, type T5.2, is determined by inhibitory influences of pretectal anti-worm detectors of the type TH3.
LGN neurons project to the primary visual cortex, which is located at the back of the head mostly on the medial side. The primary visual cortex has many names: V1, area 17, & striate cortex. The primary visual cortex lies in the fold of the calcarine sulcus. In this session we will learn 1) how the signals from the eye reach the primary visual cortex, 2) what cells in this area do with the signals they receive from the eye, and 3) where signals go from here. Optic chiasm Images seen on one side are processed by the opposite side of the brain.
The Physiology of the Senses Transformations For Perception and Action Lecture 2 - The Primary Visual Cortex Tutis Vilis http://www.physpharm.fmd.uwo.ca/undergrad/sensesweb Introduction Here we see that visual stimuli activate a structure called primary visual cortex. 
The visual cortex is made up of Brodmann area 17 (the primary visual cortex), and Brodmann areas 18 and 19, the extrastriate cortical areas. The primary (parts of the cortex that receive sensory inputs from the thalamus) visual cortex is also known as V1, V isual area one, and the striate cortex. The extrastriate areas consist of visual areas two (V2), three (V3), four (V4), and five (V5). The visual cortex of the brain is the part of the cerebral cortex responsible for processing visual information. This article addresses the ventral/dorsal model of the visual cortex. Another model for the perceptual/conceptual neuropsychological model of the visual cortex was studied by Raftopolous.
The flow of visual information from the primary visual cortex to other cortical areas depends on the type of information being processed. Information used to locate objects and detect their motion is sent to more superior cortex (a.k.a. the dorsal stream). The information from the eye is carried by the axons of the retinal ganglion cells (the 3° visual afferent) to the midbrain and diencephalon. This chapter will provide more information about visual pathway organization and the visual processing that occurs within the brain.
Simple cells: Neurons in the primary visual cortex, whose receptive fields have separate subregions that respond either to light or dark spots. The discovery of simple cells in visual cortex and the first use of the term ‘simple cell’ date back to Hubel and Wiesel (1962). Figure 1: Receptive field sizes of neurons in the primary visual cortex (V1) and inferotemporal cortex (IT) of a primate. The receptive fields are illustrated in dotted lines and the sizes are measured in visual degrees.