10 hilariously insightful foreign words. A carbomer is a homopolymer of acrylic acid, which is cross-linked, or bonded, with any of several polyalcohol allyl ethers. Usually appearing as a white powder, the compound is used as a thickener and emulsion stabilizer. Thanks. However, this carbomer homopolymer is kind of scary. It's also used in a number of OTC vaginal lubricants and moisturizers. I can't imagine using anything for delicate lady parts with the words poly-alcohol or allyl ethers in it. After 20 years of menopause, I recommend an organic product like Aloe Cadabra.
Description: Carbomer is a term used for a series of polymers primarily made from Acrylic Acid. The Carbomers are white, fluffy powders but are frequently used as gels in cosmetics and personal care products. 
Tweet. The Product PDF. Carbomer 940 is a polyvinyl carboxy polymer used as a viscosity enhancer, gelling agent, or suspension agent. Carbomer 940 is cross linked with ethers of pentaerythritol, and is used primarily in systems where sparkling clarity or a sharp viscosity response is required
Carbomer is a term used for a series of polymers primarily made from acrylic acid. The Carbomers are white, fluffy powders but are frequently used as gels in cosmetics and personal care products. Carbomers can be found in a wide variety of product types including skin, hair, nail, and makeup products, as well as dentifrices.
Sodium Carbomer-Preneutralized Carbomer. Sodium Carbomer is a pre-neutralized synthetic polymer that can be used to thicken, suspend and stabilize cosmetic formulations. Requiring very low concentrations, Carbomers are often used to adjust the viscosity of cosmetic preparations. Sodium Carbomer-Preneutralized Carbomer Sodium Carbomer is a pre-neutralized synthetic polymer that can be used to thicken, suspend and stabilize cosmetic formulations.
In organic chemistry, a carbomer is an expanded molecule obtained by insertion of a C 2 unit in a given molecule. Carbomers differ from their templates in size but not in symmetry when each C–C single bond is replaced by at least one alkyne bond, and when a double bond is replaced by an allene bond. 
0. What is it: Carbomer is a white fluffy powder that's used in lotions and other cosmetic formulas as a thickener, stabilizer, and emulsifier. Carbomer does not actually refer to one particular molecule, but is a generic term for a series of polymers primarily made from acrylic acid. Source. Carbomer is a synthetic chemical made specifically for cosmetic use. It has been in use for over 50 years, and has a pretty long history of safety. However, neutralizing agents such as TEA or tetrasodium EDTA may or may not be disclosed on the label, and could possibly be contaminants in the formulation.
Carbomer. * A series of synthetic polymers primarily made from acrylic acid. The come in the form of white, fluffy powders. Functions: Carbomers are thickening agents that help control the viscosity and flow of cosmetic products. On a cosmetic ingredient list, the name carbomer is sometimes associated with a number such as 910, 934, 940, 941 and 934P. These numbers simply represent the specific molecular weight and compositions of the polymer.