Xena is accompanied by Gabrielle (played by Renee O'Connor), who during the series changes from a simple farm girl into an Amazon warrior and Xena's comrade-in-arms; her initial naivete naïveté helps to Balance xena and assists her in recognizing and pursuing the greater. good The musical score of Xena: Warrior Princess was critically well received and garnered seven Emmy nominations for LoDuca, who won the Emmy award for Outstanding Music Composition for a Series (Dramatic Underscore) for the Season 5 episode Fallen Angel in 2000.
In the group is Gabrielle. Xena saves the young women and Gabrielle is left in awe of the Warrior Princess' abilities. Gabrielle persuades Xena to let her be her traveling companion, and over time, Gabrielle becomes Xena's dearest friend. Xena also reconciles with her mother, Cyrene. 
The series narrative follows Xena (played by Lucy Lawless), as an infamous warrior on a quest to seek redemption for her past sins against the innocent by using her formidable fighting skills to now help those who are unable to defend themselves. The musical score of Xena: Warrior Princess was critically well received and garnered seven Emmy nominations for LoDuca, who won the Emmy award for Outstanding Music Composition for a Series (Dramatic Underscore) for the Season 5 episode Fallen Angel in 2000.
DEVELOPMENT: The series is a spin-off of Hercules: The Legendary Journeys. Xena first appeared in 3 Hercules episodes during the shows first season, The Warrior Princess, The Gauntlet and Unchained Heart, sometimes labled . The Xena Trilogy  . In the first episode, Xena is an outlaw, but in the third, she joins Hercules to defeat Darphus, who had taken her army
Xena is a fictional character from Robert Tapert 's Xena: Warrior Princess franchise. She first appeared in the 1995–1999 television series Hercules: The Legendary Journeys, before going on to appear in Xena: Warrior Princess TV show and subsequent comic book of the same name. Series ended. Xena is a playable character in the videogames Xena: Warrior Princess, and a selectable character in The Talisman of Fate. In 1999, Lucy Lawless also appeared in the animated television show The Simpsons dressed as her Xena character, during the Treehouse of Horror X.
Since Xena must be dead to fight Yodoshi, she allows a samurai and his warriors to kill her. Gabrielle learns that she can bring Xena back to life by burning her body and putting the ashes in a magic spring before sunset on the second day. Gabrielle fights the samurai for Xena's body. Xena and Gabrielle offer to find Nicha for Belach, who is the son of Borias. Belach has spent his life trying to avoid becoming what his father was. Xena reveals that she is the woman that took Borias away from Belach and his mother.
Show Summary. DEVELOPMENT: The series is a spin-off of Hercules: The Legendary Journeys. Xena first appeared in 3 Hercules episodes during the shows first season, The Warrior Princess, The Gauntlet and Unchained Heart, sometimes labled The Xena Trilogy. Xena first appeared in 3 Hercules episodes during the shows first season, The Warrior Princess, The Gauntlet and Unchained Heart, sometimes labled . The Xena Trilogy  .
Xena was developed in 1995 by John Schulian as a secondary character for Hercules: The Legendary Journeys, although Lawless had already appeared as the character Lyla on the episode  As Darkness Falls , on 20 February, 1995. Series ended. Xena is a playable character in the videogames Xena: Warrior Princess, and a selectable character in The Talisman of Fate. In 1999, Lucy Lawless also appeared in the animated television show The Simpsons dressed as her Xena character, during the Treehouse of Horror X.
Xena: Warrior Princess is an American-New Zealand television series filmed in New Zealand that was primarily set in Ancient Greece. The series aired in syndication from September 4, 1995, until June 18, 2001. The musical score of Xena: Warrior Princess was critically well received and garnered seven Emmy nominations for LoDuca, who won the Emmy award for Outstanding Music Composition for a Series (Dramatic Underscore) for the Season 5 episode Fallen Angel in 2000.