The largest of the Turkic-speaking peoples in the Caucasus are Azerbaijanis who number 8,700,000 in the Republic of Azerbaijan. In the Caucasus region, they live in Georgia, Russia (Dagestan), Turkey and previously in Armenia (before 1990). The total number of Azerbaijanis is around 35 million (25 million in Iran).
White people are the Caucasians who's ancestors occupied Europe, and other Nordic countries such as Iceland ect. So Arabs, Egyptians, most Hispanic people ect. ect. ect. are Caucasian along with all the people of Europe, but they are not white. Caucasians don't look like any one thing, as it is a very diverse group of people, though the general rule is, the more north you go, the traits tend to get lighter. It's simply an evolutionary adaptation, less pigments in the body means that the body can absorb more sunlight.
There are about 15,000–30,000 Caucasus Jews (as 140,000 immigrated to Israel, and 40,000 to the US). As well as descendants of Sayyid and Siddiqui – the people with Arabian origin, but mostly assimilated by other Caucasian peoples. In the Caucasus region, they live in Georgia, Russia (Dagestan), Turkey and previously in Armenia (before 1990). The total number of Azerbaijanis is around 35 million (25 million in Iran).
1 You may look like a white Caucasian, but you can share your DNA with a black African. 2  The ultimate bone length and mass is largely genetically determined and the average racial differences in bone mass exemplify this, with black people having a higher peak bone mass than white Caucasians and higher still than Asians. [So named because the German physiologist Blumenbach believed that it originated in the Caucasus region of SE Europe]. Example sentences. 1  Babies were harvested from the Lambadas-a nomadic community found all over India with fair, Caucasian features.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: There is a difference between Caucasian people and white people. Caucasian people are those who's ancestors lived anywhere from the Northern tip of Africa, Europe, and the western portions of the Middle East. Caucasians don't look like any one thing, as it is a very diverse group of people, though the general rule is, the more north you go, the traits tend to get lighter. It's simply an evolutionary adaptation, less pigments in the body means that the body can absorb more sunlight.
For other uses, see Ethnic groups in Europe. The Caucasian race (also Caucasoid or occasionally Europid) is a taxon historically used to describe the physical or biological type of some or all of the populations of Europe, North Africa, the Horn of Africa, Western Asia, Central Asia, and South Asia. Meiners' term was given wider circulation in the 1790s by Johann Friedrich Blumenbach, a German professor of medicine and member of the British Royal Society, who is considered one of the founders of the discipline of anthropology.
As a person living close to the Caucasus (I live in Turkey) and probably genetically close to the people of the Caucasus (I am a Turk), using the term “Caucasian” instead of the term “Caucasoid” has always seemed not just confusing but also idiotic to me, and I have always preferred the terms “Caucasoid” and “White”. Steve: The Caucasus mountains are pretty close to the center of the pre-1492 range of the Caucasoid people, so Caucasian seems as useful as anything else. Zeeb: it’s not used like that. it’s used as white european
Assyrians in the Caucasus number approximately 35,000 people, and live in Armenia, Georgia, Azerbaijan and Southern Russia. There are up to 15,000 in Georgia, 3500 in Armenia, up to 15,000 in southern Russia and 1400 in Azerbaijan. They are an ancient Semitic people, descendant from the ancient Mesopotamians. In the Caucasus region, they live in Georgia, Russia (Dagestan), Turkey and previously in Armenia (before 1990). The total number of Azerbaijanis is around 35 million (25 million in Iran).
Their skin can be alabaster white, to a deep tan naturally. Caucasians can have pin straight hair, or hair so curly it looks like sheep's wool. Caucasians don't look like any one thing, as it is a very diverse group of people, though the general rule is, the more north you go, the traits tend to get lighter. It's simply an evolutionary adaptation, less pigments in the body means that the body can absorb more sunlight.
So these guys, from the Caucasus, are Caucasian. Me, with my mixed Slavic and Baltic heritage, I’m also Caucasian. So are my friends whose families come from Italy, Ireland, Germany, and pretty much anywhere else in Europe. 