Schizencephaly (from Greek skhizein, meaning to split, and enkephalos, meaning brain) is a rare birth defect characterized by abnormal clefts lined with grey matter that form the ependyma of the cerebral ventricles to the pia mater. These clefts can occur bilaterally or unilaterally. Schizencephaly can be distinguished from porencephaly by the fact that in schizencephaly the fluid-filled component, if present, is entirely lined by heterotopic grey matter while a porencephalic cyst is lined mostly by white matter.
Many sources define Schizencephaly as a very rare cortical malformation that results in grey matter-line clefts that can impact one or both sides of the brain. The brain malformation can occur during the early weeks of pregnancy. In cases involving twins, the assumption is that Schizencephaly can be due to the fact the womb was shared. Many doctors feel a stroke happens before 20 weeks gestation and account most neural tube defects on folic acid deficiency.
Axial T2-weighted MRI demonstrates a small open-lip schizencephaly. The septum pellucidum is absent. Schizencephaly is a rare, congenital cortical malformation characterized by abnormal slits, or clefts, in the cerebral hemispheres of the brain. The anomaly may be of the open-lip or closed-lip type. Closed-lip schizencephaly is characterized by grey matter-lined lips, which are in contact with each other. Open-lip schizencephaly has separated lips and a cleft of CSF extending to underlying ventricles.
An exact cause for schizencephaly is not known. In fact, there may be several causes. In some cases, the defect is linked to mutations of the EMX2, SIX3, and SHH genes (Office of Rare Diseases Research). Cases of schizencephaly occurring in siblings also point to a possible genetic or hereditary cause. Other symptoms of schizencephaly include being partially or completely paralyzed, poor muscle tone, or having a head that is smaller than normal. Recurring seizures are also a symptom. Too much fluid accumulating in the brain can also be a symptom (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke).
Top 10 facts about the world. Schizencephaly is a very rare congenital abnormality of the brain in which the brain is interrupted with one or more clefts which are filled with cerebrospinal fluid. 
1 Schizencephaly: A very rare disorder where the brain fails to develop normally and slits or clefts form in the brain. 2  They type and severity of symptoms is determined by the degree of abnormality. 
Schizencephaly is a rare birth defect that involves slits or clefts in the cerebral hemispheres of the brain. Other symptoms of schizencephaly include being partially or completely paralyzed, poor muscle tone, or having a head that is smaller than normal. Recurring seizures are also a symptom. Too much fluid accumulating in the brain can also be a symptom (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke).
Schizencephaly: A developmental disorder of the brain characterized by abnormal slits, or clefts, in the cerebral hemispheres. Schizencephaly is a form of porencephaly. 
Schizencephaly: Schizencephaly is an extremely rare developmental disorder characterized by abnormal slits, or clefts, in the brain's cerebral hemispheres. ... more about Schizencephaly. Schizencephaly: A very rare disorder where the brain fails to develop normally and slits or clefts form in the brain. They type and severity of symptoms is determined by the degree of abnormality. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Schizencephaly is available below.