These test scores will be necessary for all of your college applications. Your senior year in high school is also the time to begin considering your financial aid options. Take a hard look at your college and fund, and look for those grants and scholarships that can help you to close and financial gaps. Your senior year in high school. With your primary education finished, and your secondary schooling coming to an end, it is time to begin thinking about college. The final year of high school is filled with change and excitement, and with so much happening it may seem difficult to focus on your college career.
Also, be on the lookout for scholarship programs just for seniors. The state of Alabama has a Senior Adults Scholarship Program provides free tuition for senior citizens age 60 and over who are admitted to public two-year colleges in Alabama. Although not free, community colleges won’t bust your budget. For a full-time student, the cost of tuition is less than $2,500 dollars,” says George Boggs, AACC president and CEO. “If you break that down by course, it’s less than $800.” National average prices fluctuate by state and college.
Save. Jupiterimages/BananaStock/Getty Images. As a senior citizen on a fixed income you can go to college and take tuition-free classes and even get a degree. According to the American Council on Education, approximately 60 percent of accredited schools will waive tuition for adults over age 60, as of 2008. 
Understand that there is a college for every student who wants to go. The USA has 4000 degree-granting institutions. Almost all of them accept the majority of applicants, only a small number of elite schools accept less than half the people who apply. Hundreds of colleges accept almost everyone who applies. 
Many senior citizens have never had an opportunity to go to college. Born during the baby boom, they came of age at a time when it was common to leave high school and enter adult life directly afterwards, either by joining the work force or getting married, or sometimes both. Individual colleges also sometimes offer free tuition to senior citizens, even when state laws do not require it. The only way to find out if your college of choice has a program is to investigate either on the Internet or by calling the admissions office and asking a few questions.
It's all too easy to be a victim of student debt. According to the College Board, the average price of tuition, fees, and room and board for an in-state student at a public college or university is $18,943 for the 2014-2015 school year. For out-of-state students, average costs jump to $32,762, while private nonprofit colleges charged $42,419 on average for a single year of education. With sticker prices skyrocketing, it's no shock that student debt levels and loan default rates are up. The good news is that you don't have to be a victim
To find out whether your state mandates free or reduced-cost college tuition for seniors, do a Google search for [your state] + tuition program senior citizens” (for example, “New York State + tuition program senior citizens). You can also contact your state’s Department of Aging. 
Report Abuse. In California you need to be 18, have a HS diploma or a GED to go the CC so you would need to be over 18 to do this. You can take CC classes during your senior year at many high schools. If you could get in you would not get a high school diploma, but once you attend college for a year, it does not matter. Next year I want to go to community college as a senior, then do another year of community college, then transfer to a UC.