Definition of amps, volts, watts, resistance, current, ohms, electrical phases. We include basic formulas relating amps, volts, resistance, watts, and we explain what these electrical terms mean in practical applications such as for building or appliance electrical power, electrical wiring, and basic troubleshooting. A ten-amp 240V electrical service is capable of delivering, speaking roughly, twice the energy to the end-user than a ten-amp 120V electrical service. So volts is a measure of the strength of an electrical source at a given current or amperage level.
Amperage is a term often used by electricians, and means electrical current, measured in amperes, or amps. The ampere is the SI unit for electrical current, or the amount of electrical charge that flows through a conductor in a given time. One ampere is a charge of one coulomb — about 6.241 X 10 18 electrons — per second flowing past a given point. A current of one amp at one volt uses one watt of power. The power used by a device is simply amps multiplied by volts, so an appliance rated at ten amps plugged in to a 110-volt supply will use 1,110 watts.
Ampere definition. Ampere or amp (symbol: A) is the unit of electrical current. The Ampere unit is named after Andre-Marie Ampere, from France. One Ampere is defined as the current that flows with electric charge of one Coulomb per second. 1 A = 1 C/s. Ampere meter or ammeter is an electrical instrument that is used to measure electrical current in amperes. When we want to measure the electrical current on the load, the ampere-meter is connected in series to the load. The resistance of the ampere-meter is near zero, so it will not affect the measured circuit.
Electrical resistance is measured in Ohms and is related to Watts and Volts by the simple equations we show here: Watts = Volts 2 / Ohms. Current (Amps) = Potential (Volts) / Resistance (Ohms). Electrical resistance can be thought of as how easily electricity flows through a material. Where resistance is high more effort is needed. A smaller-diameter electrical wire has more resistance to electrical flow than a larger-diameter wire. A ten-amp 240V electrical service is capable of delivering, speaking roughly, twice the energy to the end-user than a ten-amp 120V electrical service. So volts is a measure of the strength of an electrical source at a given current or amperage level.
How do we Define Electrical Amps, Volts (Current), Resistance (Ohms), Watts & Electrical Phase-clearing up some confusion about electrical terms. In most places in the world, electrical service brought to a building is at either of two voltage levels: 240V or 120V. A ten-amp 240V electrical service is capable of delivering, speaking roughly, twice the energy to the end-user than a ten-amp 120V electrical service. So volts is a measure of the strength of an electrical source at a given current or amperage level.
First, you need to know how many amperes, or amps, for which a circuit is rated. An amp is the amount of electrical current that flows through a circuit. In most homes, lighting and small appliance circuits are 15 or 20 amps, and major appliances are on 20, 50 or even 60 amp circuits. Second, you need to know the volts flowing through the wires. 
­The­ three most basic units in electricity are voltage (V), current (I, uppercase i) and resistance (r). Voltage is measured in volts, current is measured in amps and resistance is measured in ohms. A neat analogy to help understand these terms is a system of plumbing pipes. The voltage is equivalent to the water pressure, the current is equivalent to the flow rate, and the resistance is like the pipe size. There is a basic equation in electrical engineering that states how the three terms relate.
The ampere (SI unit symbol: A), often shortened to amp, is the SI unit of electric current (dimension symbol: I) and is one of the seven SI base units. The ampere is a unit of current, the amount of charge transiting per unit time, and the coulomb is a unit of charge.
The ampere should not be confused with the coulomb (also called ampere-second) or the ampere-hour (A⋅h). The ampere is a unit of current, the amount of charge transiting per unit time, and the coulomb is a unit of charge.
Electrical Efficiency. In an electrical system, increasing either the current or the voltage will result in higher power. Let's say you have a system with a 6-volt light bulb hooked up to a 6-volt battery. The power output of the light bulb is 100 watts. 