5 5. The meaning of Alia is  Healthy, strong  and  Sky, heaven  and  Lofty . Its origin is  Modern English variant of the name Alya . Alia is a form of Alya and is generally pronounced like  ahl YAH . This name is mostly being used as a girls name. Last year it ranked 724th in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby girl names. Alia is a variant spelling of the name Alya
The name Alia is of Arabic origin, and it means Noble, Sublime . It's a name commonly given to girls. Alia Shawkat is an actress with the most prominent portion of her career being from 1999 to present. 
Hello, Guest. Alia is most classic and feminine form of Ali, one of the 99 attributes of Allah. The name is used by Christians, Muslims and Jews; the word Aliyah means to make a pilgrimage to Israel and the words in both languages mean sublime, lofty, or exalted. 
It is predominantly used in Arabic and English. Alia is a form of the English Aleah. Alia is also a form of Alice. Alia is also a spelling variant of the Arabic, English, and Hebrew Aliyah in the Arabic and English languages. Alia is also a form of the Russian and Arabic Alya in the Arabic language.
[ 3 syll. a-lia, al-ia ] The baby girl name Alia is also used as a boy name, though the use for girls is far more popular. It is pronounced as AA-L-iy-aa- †. Alia's language of origin is Germanic, Hebrew, and Arabic. Alia is a form of the English Aleah. Alia is also a form of Alice. Alia is also a spelling variant of the Arabic, English, and Hebrew Aliyah in the Arabic and English languages. Alia is also a form of the Russian and Arabic Alya in the Arabic language.
Alia /alia/ [3 sylls.] as a name for girls (also used less widely as boys' name Alia) is of Hebrew origin, and Alia means exalted, sublime. Alia is a version of Aliya (Hebrew): made popular by late singer Aaliyah. Alie is a familiar surname. Kreatif forms: Aliaai, Aliaau, Aualia. Charted below is the baby name popularity of Alia for girls. Alia entered the list in 1995 and reached its highest position of #724 in the U.S. in 2013, and is at #729 presently. (2014 Birth Statistics). Displayed below is an analysis of the usage of Alia and affiliated names.
Meaning of Alia. Alia is a Quranic name for girls that means “high”, “exalted”, “sublime”, “lofty”. It is directly mentioned twice in the Quran: 19. As for him who is given his book in his right hand, he will say, “Here, take my book and read it. 20. I knew I would be held accountable.” 21
Israeli Meaning: The name Alia is an Israeli baby name. In Israeli the meaning of the name Alia is: Immigrant to a new home. German Meaning: The name Alia is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Alia is: An Old German name meaning 'all'. SoulUrge Number: 11. Expression Number: 5. People with this name have a deep inner desire to inspire others in a higher cause, and to share their own strongly held views on spiritual matters. 
What does Alia mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Alia is of Hebrew origin. The meaning of Alia is noble, ascender. It is also of Arabic origin, where its meaning is heaven, sky, noble, exalted. View the Alia Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Alia has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Alia to other names. Alia is a variant spelling of Alya. Alia falls into the celestial name category.
Alia and Alya (علياء) are Arabic female names that mean “divinely, heavenly”. It shares the same root as the masculine ‘Ali (عالي) meaning “sublime” (from the same place we get Aaliyah or Aliyya). Of all the possible ways to transcribe this Arabic female name into English, Alia is the easiest to spell. 