Red Meats. For beef, lamb, bison and game meats rest roast at cool room temperature if possible, 30-60 minutes for small roasts and 60-90 minutes for larger roasts. Estimate roasting time. Allow 15 minutes per pound of roast for rare, 20 minutes per pound for medium rare to medium. When nearing the end of estimated roasting time, begin to monitor internal temperature with a reliable meat thermometer. Test in several spots. Remove pork roast from oven when it reaches 150-155 degrees internal (at least 145).
---. Pork Roasts. For Pork loin and fresh ham roasts (a leg of pork that is not cured and smoked), remove from refrigerator and rest roast at cool room temperature; 30-60 minutes for small roasts and 60-90 minutes for larger roasts. Estimate roasting time, allowing 20 minutes per pound of roast. When nearing the end of estimated roasting time, begin to monitor internal temperature with a reliable meat thermometer. Test in several spots. Remove pork roast from oven when it reaches 150-155 degrees internal (at least 145).
Remove the roast from the oven and set on a cutting board. Cover the meat with tin foil and let it rest for about 15 minutes before slicing it. The temperature of the roast will continue to rise about another 5 degrees. It’s difficult to say. WIth a roast, you generally want to cook to an internal temperature, not a time. But, when you lay it out butterflied, it’s thinner and more of the meat is exposed to heat, so if you were to cook it at 350 degrees at a 1/2 hour/lb. a 6 lb roast would end up ruinously overdone.
1 Cooking Whole Cuts of Pork: USDA has lowered the recommended safe cooking temperature for whole cuts of pork from 160 ºF to 145 ºF with the addition of a three-minute rest time. 1 Ground Meats: This change does not apply to ground meats, including beef, veal, lamb, and pork, which should be cooked to 160 ºF and do not require a rest time. 2  Poultry: The safe cooking temperature for all poultry products, including ground chicken and turkey, stays the same at 165 ºF.
It is not the time in the oven but the internal temperature of the roast that will determine if it is cooked properly. According to the USDA and Minnesota Pork Board, “Pork is best when cooked to medium doneness – 160 degrees F. on a meat thermometer. It’s difficult to say. WIth a roast, you generally want to cook to an internal temperature, not a time. But, when you lay it out butterflied, it’s thinner and more of the meat is exposed to heat, so if you were to cook it at 350 degrees at a 1/2 hour/lb. a 6 lb roast would end up ruinously overdone.
On May 24, USDA made some important changes in their recommended cooking temperatures for meats. Here’s what you need to know: 1  Cooking Whole Cuts of Pork: USDA has lowered the recommended safe cooking temperature for whole cuts of pork from 160 ºF to 145 ºF with the addition of a three-minute rest time. 1 Ground Meats: This change does not apply to ground meats, including beef, veal, lamb, and pork, which should be cooked to 160 ºF and do not require a rest time. 2  Poultry: The safe cooking temperature for all poultry products, including ground chicken and turkey, stays the same at 165 ºF.
Continue cooking about 50-80 minutes or until the meat registers 145 degrees on a meat thermometer. Some roasts are long and thin and others are short and fat, consequently the cooking times will vary depending on the shape of your roast. The meat thermometer is the best way to judge the right amount of cooking time. It’s difficult to say. WIth a roast, you generally want to cook to an internal temperature, not a time. But, when you lay it out butterflied, it’s thinner and more of the meat is exposed to heat, so if you were to cook it at 350 degrees at a 1/2 hour/lb. a 6 lb roast would end up ruinously overdone.
1 Place the meat in the oven and cook for 20 to 30 minutes at the high temperature. 2  Then lower the temperature to between 275°F and 325°F and roast until done (see doneness guidelines below). 1 Don't cover the pan. 2  If you are using a meat thermometer (analog or digital), insert the probe into the center of the roast, being careful not to hit bone. 3 