Sidewalks can be built right at the edge of the street ..... or sidewalks can be separated from the curb by a planting strip, that is just several feet of grass between the sidewalk and the street. What a difference this green space can make! To provide space for groups of pedestrians. When children (or older pedestrians) travel in a group, they will not fit on a narrow 4 or 5 foot sidewalk. If the sidewalk is set back behind a grassy strip, they will spill over onto the grass rather than into
Sidewalks. Sidewalks, specifically paved sidewalks, are an important piece of a walking route to school. Paved sidewalks are “pedestrian lanes” that provide people with space to travel within the public right-of-way separated from motor vehicles and on-road bicycles. 
An easement (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Easement) is a general term for any area of a property which gives usage rights to an entity other than the property owner. It is not specific to the area between a sidewalk and the street; that area is also not necessarily an easement. The grassy strip between the lanes is a median. This usage of boulevard is separate but related to Boulevard in the name of a street; but a Boulevard is supposed to be a fancy street that has medians and boulevards.
The sidewalk is usually raised above the level of the road. The curb is a stone or concrete edging between the road and the sidewalk. In British usage, curb is spelled kerb. What Americans call a sidewalk, British speakers call the pavement. Merchants that Americans call “street vendors” or “sidewalk vendors” are called “kerb-merchants” or “kerb-vendors” by British speakers. I do not agree with Rod’s statement, in Spanish curb and sidewalk are definitely not interchangeable. They refer to different parts. The “vereda” or “acera” is the surface itself on which pedestrians walk, and the “cordon” cordón “or” bordillo is the edge or (border bordillo means “literally small”) border of the. same
642.2.1 Slope and Rise of Sidewalk Ramps. When the running slope, or grade, of a sidewalk exceeds 5% it is a ramp. If the sidewalk is adjacent to the street or separated by a narrow planting strip, the sidewalk grade may be equal to the grade of the street and not be considered a ramp. 
Snow that has been ploughed off the street in colder climates may be stored in the area. In some countries, verges are the last location of habitats for a range of flora. The main disadvantage of the road verge is that the right-of-way must be wider, increasing the cost of the road. In some localities a wider verge offers opportunity for later road widening, should the traffic usage of a road demand this. For this reason the footpaths are sited a significant distance from the curb. 
A sidewalk (American English) – known as a footpath, footway or pavement in Australian, New Zealand, Irish English, and British English – is a path along the side of a road. A sidewalk may accommodate moderate changes in grade (height) and is normally separated from the vehicular section by a curb. The professional, civil engineering and legal term for this in America is sidewalk while in the United Kingdom it is footway. In the United States, the term sidewalk is used for the pedestrian path beside a road. Shared use path or multi-use path are available for use by both pedestrians and bicyclists.
What I meant was that in some locations more than one of the terms is used, but not synonymously. We've always called it a tree lawn, but only if there's a sidewalk. If it's merely the side of the road (and usually a major road), with or without a sidewalk, that's a berm. And a tree lawn would usually have a curb, but a berm wouldn't. The grassy strip between the lanes is a median. This usage of boulevard is separate but related to Boulevard in the name of a street; but a Boulevard is supposed to be a fancy street that has medians and boulevards.