House of Cards is a good reminder, however, that there is a reason Iago wasn’t the center of Othello. Unrelenting, unexplained cruelty can be as pedantic as constant kindness. House of Cards ‘ second season picks up where the first season left off, with Underwood scheming. Now, our protagonist is gunning for the role of Vice President. The things standing in his way are quickly dispatched
DMCA. In Netflix House of Cards series, Kevin Spacey plays Frank Underwood, a treacherous, murderous, conniving, lying, traitorous, vengeful politician who will do ANYTHING to gain power and influence. The series is a huge hit. A series like House of Cards has the potential to be a very educational exercise in helping people to understand just how powerful and successful psychopaths can be, and that they can reach the highest echelons.
No, no, not just no good, but incompetent, a shambles, lost. House of Cards has been the Netflix flag, the credential upon which it went from video reseller to tastemaker and show business force. Its effort to position itself as an HBO competitor, if not killer, rests with its ability as a programmer. Perhaps season three is just House of Cards cheap. But it may also be that Netflix — and this should give pause to all the other tech platforms eager to become television producers — is just not up to the job. The creative process is, after all, hard to manage.
House of Cards is full of hypocrites, some ashamed, many proud. There is no silver lining here, no appeal to a just system that is temporarily thwarted by corrupting forces. So far, it is simply bad people using democracy as tyrants use tyranny. If Fincher's goal was Richard III for a more participatory era—with a blunt operator determined to prove a villain—then House of Cards may find its way toward comeuppance for the ruler next season, when another 13 episodes will drop.
Netflix has bragged that it used its vast viewer data to pinpoint House of Cards for remake. Audiences apparently related to a political show that did not take itself very seriously and lampooned the usual self-seriousness and implied nobility of political drama. Perhaps season three is just House of Cards cheap. But it may also be that Netflix — and this should give pause to all the other tech platforms eager to become television producers — is just not up to the job. The creative process is, after all, hard to manage.
The 'House of Cards' let-down. The second season of Netflix's House of Cards is a pretty big letdown. The storylines are preposterous. The principal characters are flat and cliched. The efforts at narrative transgression, either violent or sexual, are pathetic and unconvincing. (WATCH-Kevin Spacey: 'House of Cards' not far from reality). Sure, those are the streets of Washington, D.C., all right. And yes, those are the halls of the Capitol. But you didn't appreciate HBO's The Wire just because it took place in Baltimore and made nods to local history.
That is one reason why House of Cards distinguished itself immediately. David Fincher's new political thriller, released in 13 episodes on Netflix, takes a different and much darker path. His tale begins with a clear take on Washington: It is the source of evil. So far, it is simply bad people using democracy as tyrants use tyranny. If Fincher's goal was Richard III for a more participatory era—with a blunt operator determined to prove a villain—then House of Cards may find its way toward comeuppance for the ruler next season, when another 13 episodes will drop.
Los Angeles only has three stories to tell about Washington, and House of Cards has picked the most intriguing one. The first story is about money. It's the classic story of Washington as a city for sale. The premise is not only true, but superlatively so, after the most expensive election cycle in history. So far, it is simply bad people using democracy as tyrants use tyranny. If Fincher's goal was Richard III for a more participatory era—with a blunt operator determined to prove a villain—then House of Cards may find its way toward comeuppance for the ruler next season, when another 13 episodes will drop.
That is the depravity that House of Cards captures so thoroughly. There are big issues—a teacher's strike, an education bill, nuclear policy, West Bank settlements—but for Underwood, and, most of Washington, they are just cards to play in the game. So far, it is simply bad people using democracy as tyrants use tyranny. If Fincher's goal was Richard III for a more participatory era—with a blunt operator determined to prove a villain—then House of Cards may find its way toward comeuppance for the ruler next season, when another 13 episodes will drop.