“13 of Blondes” Dorothy M. Yoon Solo Exhibition 8th March – 6th April 2008 Andrew James Art is proud to announce the first solo exhibition of Dorothy M. Yoon’s work in China of her new series “13 of Blondes”. The exhibition will be at Andrew James Art, […]. Read more →. “Beauty, Weapon and Beast” Zhou Yilun Solo Exhibition 30th June – 29th July 2007 Shanghai 06th June 2007 Andrew James Art is holding the solo exhibition of “Beauty, Weapon and Beast” of new works by recent graduate Chinese artist Zhou Yilun at their gallery space at 39 […].
P rivate collectors and museums from across the United States are lending pieces to the Peninsula Fine Arts Center for what promises to be one of their most successful exhibitions. An Artistic Legacy: N.C., Andrew and James Wyeth features art from America's premier family of artists through September 7, 2000. The show is one of a very few to compare the techniques and subject matters of grandfather, father and son. Each artist is renown for his skill in a particular field: N.C. for classic storybook illustrations, James for portraits of American icons, and Andrew for landscape and still life paintings, in particular Christina's World.
Born in 1969, Andrew James is an artist living and working in Tunbridge Wells, Kent, UK. From an early age he and his identical twin brother Paul, drew prolifically sharing a powerful interest in the visual world. They continued to be artistically productive throughout their school years. 
Based in Royal Tunbridge Wells, Kent, Andrew James is a highly sought after Artist, who has worked on many prestigious commissions of public figures. 
Biography. Biography by Contactmusic.com. Andrew James Lincoln, born Andrew James Clutterbuck (born 14.9.1973). Andrew Lincoln is an English actor most notable for his portrayal as the American, Rick Grimes on the award winning television series The Walking Dead. 
“Just Joking” Zhou Yilun Solo Exhibition 19th April – 18th May 2008 Andrew James Art is please to introduce the second solo exhibition by Zhou Yilun in Shanghai. “Beauty, Weapon and Beast” Zhou Yilun Solo Exhibition 30th June – 29th July 2007 Shanghai 06th June 2007 Andrew James Art is holding the solo exhibition of “Beauty, Weapon and Beast” of new works by recent graduate Chinese artist Zhou Yilun at their gallery space at 39 […].
Official Photos ». Andrew James Allen was born in Redmond, Washington to Robert and Susan Allen. Susan is a retired radiology technician and his father Robert is an artist and environmentalist. Andrew James Allen has been acting since 9 years old, first appearing in commercials. Eventually at the age of 13 Andrew James Allen and his mother moved to Los Angeles where ..
Allen was born in Redmond, Washington to Robert and Susan Allen. Susan is a retired radiology technician and his father Robert is an artist and environmentalist. He has been acting since 9 years old, first appearing in commercials. Eventually at the age of 13 he and his mother moved to Los Angeles where he began working on various film and television projects. This article about a United States film and television actor or actress born in the 1980s is a stub.