1 Noun Phrases and Adjective Phrases.  2 There may be very little difference between a noun phrase and an adjective phrase in structures where the adjectives occur before the word it qualifies. 3  Most noun phrases consist of a head noun plus one or more adjectives, or indeed an adjective phrase itself. 1 An adjective phrase consists of an adjective which may be preceded and/or followed by other words. 2  The premodifier is always an adverb phrase, but the post-modifiers can be an adverb phrase, a prepositional phrase, or even a clause.
An adjective phrase can be an attributive adjective or a predicative adjective. Attributive Adjective. An attributive adjective is one that sits inside the noun phrase of the noun it modifies. Look at these two examples: When an adjective appears before its noun, it is very likely to be an attributive adjective. An adjective phrase (or adjectival phrase) is a phrase that tells us something about the noun it is modifying. The head (principal) word in an adjective phrase will be an adjective. In the examples below, the adjective phrase is shaded and the head word (i.e., the adjective) is in bold:
Like a normal adjective, an adjective phrase can be used before the noun it is modifying (like in the first two examples above) or after the noun it is modifying (like in the last example). Here are some more examples of adjective phrases (with the head adjectives in bold): An adjective phrase (or adjectival phrase) is a phrase that tells us something about the noun it is modifying. The head (principal) word in an adjective phrase will be an adjective. In the examples below, the adjective phrase is shaded and the head word (i.e., the adjective) is in bold
You already know that a preposition is a word that expresses the relationship between a noun or pronoun and another word in the sentence. In addition, you know that a prepositional phrase includes the preposition and the object of the preposition, which is the noun or pronoun that relates to another word. If the other word is a noun or pronoun, then the prepositional phrase is an adjective phrase. Examples of The Adjective Phrase: telling us the relationship between the class and the announcement. Announcement is a noun, so this is an. .
Prepositional Phrases can function in three ways in a sentence: as a noun, as an adjective, or as an adverb. When a prepositional phrase is functioning as an adjective phrase, it is giving us additional information about a noun or pronoun in the sentence. It is telling us which one, what kind, or how many. If the other word is a noun or pronoun, then the prepositional phrase is an adjective phrase. Examples of The Adjective Phrase: telling us the relationship between the class and the announcement. Announcement is a noun, so this is an. .
To determine if a prepositional phrase is an adjective phrase : 1) Find the object of the preposition (the noun or pronoun that follows the preposition). 2) Ask yourself which other word in the sentence is related to this noun or pronoun by the preposition. If the other word is a noun or pronoun, then the prepositional phrase is an adjective phrase. Examples of The Adjective Phrase: telling us the relationship between the class and the announcement. Announcement is a noun, so this is an. .
An adjective phrase is a group of words that describe a noun or pronoun in a sentence. The adjective phrase can be placed before, or after, the noun or pronoun in the sentence. 
Definition: A word group with an adjective as its head. This adjective may be accompanied by modifiers, determiners, and/or qualifiers. Adjective phrases modify nouns. They may be attributive (appearing before the noun) or predicative (appearing after a linking verb), but not all adjectives can be used in both positions. 1 An adjective phrase consists of an adjective which may be preceded and/or followed by other words. 2  The premodifier is always an adverb phrase, but the post-modifiers can be an adverb phrase, a prepositional phrase, or even a clause.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. An adjective phrase (or adjectival phrase) is a phrase whose head word is an adjective, e.g. fond of steak, very happy, quite upset about it, etc. The dependents of the head adjective-i.e. the other words and phrases inside the adjective phrase-are typically adverbs or prepositional phrases, but they can also be clauses (e.g. louder than you do). Adjectives and adjective phrases function in two basic ways in clauses, either attributively or predicatively.