Other types of seafood contain fluoride, but in smaller amounts, such as oysters which have 0.05 milligrams in every 3 ounces and most types of fish which contain 0.02 milligrams in a 3.5-ounce serving. When choosing canned crab, look for low-or no-sodium brands. An ounce of a white wine like chardonnay contains 0.06 milligrams of fluoride, meaning that a standard 5-ounce serving of white wine supplies 0.3 milligrams. Each glass contains 7.5 percent of a man's daily fluoride needs and 10 percent for a woman.
The elevated fluoride levels that are now seen in most processed foods can make it seem like everything has fluoride in it. The good news, however, is that the naturally occurring level of fluoride in most fresh fruits, fresh vegetables, and fresh surface water, is very low. Over the past 100 years, the levels of fluoride in foods purchased at the grocery store have increased.
foods sprayed with sulfuryl fluoride (fumigant used in food warehouses; food products are not removed from the facility when fumigation is conducted). foods cooked with fluoridated water, such as rice, pasta, steamed vegetables, etc. Instead of foods sprayed with cryolite, I eat organic produce. Instead of prepackaged foods that come from warehouses spraeyd with sulfuryl fluoride, I eat real food from farms. Instead of fluoridated water, I drink spring water (from a source I know is low in fluoride).
However, the level of fluoride in foods is significantly affected by the fluoride content of the water used in food preparation or processing, particularly in beverages and dry foodstuffs to which water is added prior to consumption, such as powdered baby formula. 
Story at-a-glance 1  +. One of the primary sources of fluoride exposure is not fluoridated drinking water but non-organic foods, due to the high amounts of fluoride-based pesticide residues on these foods. 2  Non-organic foods may account for as much as one-third of the average person’s fluoride exposure. Besides food though, drinking water is certainly a primary source of fluoride exposure. Many mistakenly believe that bottled water is the answer, but this is a serious misconception. As a general rule, I don't recommend or encourage using bottled water on a regular basis—for a number of reasons.
Where water is not fluoridated, some supplementation might be needed. TOP. Fluoride Foods Fluoride is found in certain mouthwashes, and toothpastes and fluoridated water. It occurs naturally in the sea as sodium fluoride, so most seafood contains fluoride. Foods high in fluoride are · fluoridated water · seafood. Other foods containing fluoride include · chicken · canned sardines (with bones) · fish · gelatin · grape juice · tea. TOP. Fluoride Supplements Taking vitamins and minerals in their correct balance is vital to the proper functioning of all vitamins. 
The reasons for this increase include: (1) the mass fluoridation of water supplies in some countries, (2) the introduction of fluoride-based pesticides, (3) the use of mechanical deboning processes, and, perhaps, (4) the use of Teflon in certain production processes. Over the past 100 years, the levels of fluoride in foods purchased at the grocery store have increased.
1 Fluoride values are in micrograms and calculated per 100g (3.5 oz) of food weight. 2  This fluoride database contains fluoride content of 561 common foods. 3  Click on column header to sort foods by name or by fluoride content. Fluoride is the name given to a group of compounds that are composed of the naturally occurring element fluorine and one or more other elements. Fluorides are present naturally in water and soil at varying levels.
1 One of the primary sources of fluoride exposure is not fluoridated drinking water but non-organic foods, due to the high amounts of fluoride-based pesticide residues on these foods. 2  Non-organic foods may account for as much as one-third of the average person’s fluoride exposure. Besides food though, drinking water is certainly a primary source of fluoride exposure. Many mistakenly believe that bottled water is the answer, but this is a serious misconception. As a general rule, I don't recommend or encourage using bottled water on a regular basis—for a number of reasons.
Therefore, vegetables and other foods cooked in fluoridated water contain fluorine. Infants are also exposed to high amounts of fluorine when they are fed baby formula that has been mixed with fluoridated water. 