It is values between 4 and 10 ng/mL that are the most ambiguous; men in this range may benefit most from refinements in the PSA test. The risk of cancer based on PSA levels follows: PSA levels under 4 ng/mL: normal 4 to 10 ng/mL: 20 to 30% risk 10 to 20 ng/mL: 50 to 75% risk Above 20 ng/mL: 90%. But only about 50% of men with a PSA velocity below 0.75 ng/mL per year have cancer. The test is used primarily to determine the need for a repeat biopsy in those with PSA levels between 4 to 10 ng/mL and a prior negative biopsy.
Prostate-specific antigen, or PSA, is a protein produced by cells of the prostate gland. The PSA test measures the level of PSA in a man’s blood. For this test, a blood sample is sent to a laboratory for analysis. The results are usually reported as nanograms of PSA per milliliter (ng/mL) of blood. The blood level of PSA is often elevated in men with prostate cancer, and the PSA test was originally approved by the FDA in 1986 to monitor the progression of prostate cancer in men who had already been diagnosed with the disease.
The PSA test measures the level of prostate specific antigen in your blood. PSA is an enzyme that is produced by a man's prostate gland. The normal range for the PSA test is less than 4.0 nanograms per milliliter (ng/mL) in most men. If you are over 40 years old and have a family history of prostate disease or if you are an African-American man over 40 years old, some doctors suggest that a level higher than 2.5 ng/mL should be checked with more tests. Best Answer: The normal value for total PSA has been set at less than 4.0 ng/ml (nanograms per milliliter of blood). There are some that feel that this level should be lowered to 2.5 ng/ml in order to detect more cases of prostate cancer.
1 Men in the range of 50 to 59 years have normal PSA levels that are less than 3.5 ng/mL. 2  Men in the range of 60 to 69 years have normal PSA levels that are less than 4.5 ng/mL. 3  Men over the age of 70 years have normal PSA levels that are less than 6.5 ng/mL. 1 Men over the age of 70 years have normal PSA levels that are less than 6.5 ng/mL. 2  It is also important to note that the normal ranges of PSA results may vary from one laboratory to another. 3  The abbreviation ng/mL stands for nanograms per milliliter.
There is agreement that patients with a total PSA level greater than 10.0 ng/ml are at an increased risk for prostate cancer (more than a 67% chance, according to the ACS). Levels between 4.0 ng/ml and 10.0 ng/ml may indicate prostate cancer (about a 25% chance, according to the ACS), BPH, or prostatitis. Best Answer: The normal value for total PSA has been set at less than 4.0 ng/ml (nanograms per milliliter of blood). There are some that feel that this level should be lowered to 2.5 ng/ml in order to detect more cases of prostate cancer.
In the past, most doctors considered PSA levels of 4.0 ng/mL and lower as normal. Therefore, if a man had a PSA level above 4.0 ng/mL, doctors would often recommend a prostate biopsy to determine whether prostate cancer was present. The results are usually reported as nanograms of PSA per milliliter (ng/mL) of blood. The blood level of PSA is often elevated in men with prostate cancer, and the PSA test was originally approved by the FDA in 1986 to monitor the progression of prostate cancer in men who had already been diagnosed with the disease.
1 Total PSA levels between 4.0 ng/ml and 10.0 ng/ml may indicate prostate cancer (about a 25% chance, according to the ACS), benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH) , or inflammation of the prostate. 2  These conditions are more common in the elderly, as is a general increase in PSA levels. 
PSA levels are measured in nanograms per millilitre of blood (ng/ml). Whether a PSA level is “normal” depends on the individual and their age. Cancer Research UK uses the following rough guide: 1  3 ng/ml or lower is considered in the normal range for a man under 60 years old. 2  4 ng/ml or lower is normal for a man between 60 to 69 years old. 3  5 ng/ml or lower is normal for a man 70 years old and over. 
1 Men in the range of 60 to 69 years have normal PSA levels that are less than 4.5 ng/mL. 2  Men over the age of 70 years have normal PSA levels that are less than 6.5 ng/mL. 3  It is also important to note that the normal ranges of PSA results may vary from one laboratory to another. 1 Men over the age of 70 years have normal PSA levels that are less than 6.5 ng/mL. 2  It is also important to note that the normal ranges of PSA results may vary from one laboratory to another. 3  The abbreviation ng/mL stands for nanograms per milliliter.