How to Use a Carpenter Square. A carpenter square is a common tool that builders use to help lay out a variety of elements of wood construction jobs including rafters, roofing and staircases. Also called a framing square, rafter square or a steel square, it is one of the most versatile tools a carpenter uses. It enables him or her to measure, define angles and lay out the edges and details of a square.
Square Measure. This is used in measuring surfaces or things whose length and breadth are considered without regard to hight or depth, as sheeting, flooring, plastering, etc. Fig. 2 shows a square foot. In the measurement of lumber, square measure is frequently termed board measure, and when used as board measure the thickness is considered as one inch. A square is a figure which has four equal sides, and all its angles right angles, as shown in Fig. 2.
Follow the proper distance and repeat the measurements for each rafter from the pitch of your roof if laying out rafters with your carpenter square. 1  Use your carpenter square to measure other elements of your construction job. Also called a framing square, rafter square or a steel square, it is one of the most versatile tools a carpenter uses. It enables him or her to measure, define angles and lay out the edges and details of a square.
1. Methods used to calculate square footage differ. Some builders measure a home’s size from the outside of the wall framing. Other builders measure to the outside of the siding material, so an all-brick home may be hundreds of square feet bigger than the exact same home with lap siding!
Builders Square was a big-box home improvement retailer headquartered in San Antonio, Texas. A subsidiary of Kmart, its format was quite similar to The Home Depot, Menards and Lowe's with floor space of about 100,000 square feet (9,300 m 2). 
Here's how to check if an existing structure is square: 1  Put the measuring tape at the corner where the two walls meet, and measure three feet (91.44 centimeters) along the length of the area. 
1. Understand the 3-4-5 method. If a triangle has sides measuring 3, 4, and 5 feet (or any other unit), it must be a right triangle with a 90º angle between the short sides. If you can find this triangle in your corner, you know the corner is square. This is based on the Pythagorean Theorem from geometry: A2 + B2 = C2 for a right triangle. How to Use the 3 4 5 Rule to Build Square Corners. One Methods: Using the 3-4-5 Rule. One of the challenges when creating corners is getting them square. While your room doesn't need to be perfectly square, it's best to get corners as close to 90 degrees as possible. If not, any tile or carpet laid will be noticeably 'off' from one side of the room to the other
The square is an Imperial unit of area that is used in the United States construction industry, and was historically used in Australia. One square is equal to 100 square feet. Examples where the unit is used are roofing shingles, metal roofing, vinyl siding, and fibercement siding products. Some home builders use squares as a unit in floor plans to customers. Buildings in Australia no longer use the square as a unit of measure, and has been replaced by square metres. The measurement was often used by estate agents to make the building sound larger as the measure includes the areas outside under the eaves, and so cannot be directly compared to the internal floor area.