0. Two basic decaffeination processes are used in the U.S.: water extraction and direct solvent extraction. In the water extraction process, the coffee beans are steamed and then soaked and rinsed, allowing the caffeine to diffuse from the beans into the water, using no artificial chemicals. In the direct solvent extraction process, decaffeination is accomplished by direct application of methylene chloride, ethyl acetate or carbon dioxide to the coffee beans. The beans are then steamed to remove the residual solvent, then dried and roasted.
2) The Direct–Solvent Based Process. In this method of decaffeination the beans are steamed for about 30 minutes in order to open their pores. Once the coffee beans are receptive to a solvent, they are repeatedly rinsed with either methylene chloride or ethyl acetate for about 10 hours to remove the caffeine. As I’ve mentioned above, the decaffeination of coffee involves the use of a decaffeination agent. In solvent-based processes a chemical solvent is added either directly or indirectly to selectively
Since flavor molecules are larger, they remain intact, which is why this process retains the flavor of the material better. Caffeine extraction with water is used primarily for coffee decaffeination. The process is similar to the indirect method used in methylene chloride processing, but no chemicals are used. After the caffeine is leached out of the material by soaking in hot water for a period of time, the solution is then passed through a carbon filter for caffeine removal. Methylene chloride is a chemical used as a solvent to extract caffeine from many raw materials. Molecules of caffeine bond to molecules of methylene chloride. The materials are softened in a water bath or in steam. The next step is to process the materials with methylene chloride by either of two methods:
Decaffeination is the process of removing caffeine from coffee beans. Since coffee contains an estimated 400 different chemicals that contribute to its overall flavor and aromatic qualities, the goal of decaffeination is to leave these valuable chemicals intact while removing the one undesirable chemical, caffeine. Indirect Contact Decaffeination. In the indirect contact method of decaffeination hot water is used to extract caffeine from green coffee beans and then chemical compounds are used to extract the caffeine from the extract.
The first decaffeination method, developed in the early 1900s, used a repetitive rinsing process aided by the chemical benzene, which is no longer used because it is a known cancer-causing agent. Today, like seasoned vintners, coffee processors favor different decaffeination methods for optimum taste and quality. 
1 Therefore all decaffeination processes use a decaffeinating agent (such as methylene chloride, activated charcoal, CO 2, or ethyl acetate). 2  These agents help speed up the process and minimize the “washed-out” effects that water alone would have on the taste of decaf coffee. As I’ve mentioned above, the decaffeination of coffee involves the use of a decaffeination agent. In solvent-based processes a chemical solvent is added either directly or indirectly to selectively remove the caffeine.
The most common of water-processed coffee decaffeination is the patented Swiss Water Process. There are others such as Royal Select Water process. Both are similar in that no chemicals are used to decaffeinate the coffee beans. 
Decaffeination processes for coffee [edit]. In the case of coffee, various methods can be used. The process is performed on unroasted (green) beans and starts with steaming of the beans. They are then rinsed with a solvent that extracts the caffeine while leaving other constituents largely unaffected. After this point, the caffeine is the only material removed from the beans, so no coffee strength or other flavorings are lost. Because water is used in the initial phase of this process, indirect method decaffeination is sometimes referred to as water-processed.