Nutritional Value of Curry Leaves. The main nutrients found in curry leaves are carbohydrates, energy, fiber, calcium, phosphorous, iron, magnesium, copper and minerals. It also contains various vitamins like nicotinic acid and vitamin C, vitamin A, vitamin B, vitamin E, antioxidants, plant sterols, amino acids, glycosides and flavonoids. Research on curry leaves has indicated that the tannins and carbazole alkaloids present in curry leaves exhibited good hepato-protective properties. They are also helpful in protecting the liver from various diseases such as hepatitis and cirrhosis. Skin care: Curry leaves are also helpful in skin care.
A bowl of curried chick peas garnished with a curry leaf. Photo Credit creative_streaks/iStock/Getty Images. An aromatic herb, curry leaves are dark green and often featured in Indian and Asian dishes. The leaves can be used fresh, although they are often sold dried, and used similarly to bay leaves. Sometimes called Murraya koenigii, curry leaves have been associated with several health benefits, including the reduction of inflammation
Some of the key nutrients in Curry leaf include dietary fibers, proteins and rich supply of Vitamin A and Calcium. Other nutrients present in minor quantities include Vitamin B, iron, magnesium, manganese and phosphorus. Curry leaf benefits for eyesight. Curry leaves are very good source of carotenes and vitamin A and are considered good for eye. Regular consumption of curry leaves help better eyesight and prevent eye cataract.
Curry leaves can be added to your curries, vegetable stews and soups. They are also available in dried powder form. Anti-Diabetic Properties: Perhaps one of the biggest health benefits of curry leaves is its use in diabetes control. Research on curry leaves has indicated that the tannins and carbazole alkaloids present in curry leaves exhibited good hepato-protective properties. They are also helpful in protecting the liver from various diseases such as hepatitis and cirrhosis. Skin care: Curry leaves are also helpful in skin care.
Curry leaf benefits the body by stimulating digestive enzymes, reducing body heat, relieving kidney pain, controlling Diabetes, making the eyes appear brighter, retaining the natural pigmentation of hair, and so on. Moreover, curry leaves are used for flavoring in South Indian cuisine. 
Curry leaves constitutes a combination of essential nutrients required for the growth of hair. They are rich in antioxidants and amino acids which are capable of reducing hair fall and stimulate hair growth. They helps in preventing the hair strands from thinning by means of strengthening hair follicles. Curry leaves are also a rich source of beta-carotene and proteins. Beta carotene limits hair loss while presence of proteins prevents hair thinning. Curry leaves can be used as a great stimulant for hair growth either through topical application or through your diet.
Basic Nutrition. Curry leaves are rich in a number of nutrients, including vitamins A and B, as well as a source of proteins, amino acids and alkaloids. Because curry leaves are used primarily to scent and flavor dishes, however, the nutritional value of a dish using curry leaves will be determined largely by the other ingredients. An aromatic herb, curry leaves are dark green and often featured in Indian and Asian dishes. The leaves can be used fresh, although they are often sold dried, and used similarly to bay leaves.
Nutritional Values. Curry leaves contain 2.5% oil, alpha-selinene, beta-bisabolene, beta-cadinene, beta-caryophyllene, beta-elemene, beta-gurjenene, beta-phellandrene, beta-thujene and beta-transocimene. These ingredients give curry leaves it typical aroma. Curry leaves (scientific name: Murraya Koenigi, Hindi करी पत्ता) are extensively used in Southern India (now also in North India) and Sri Lanka for giving typical flavor to many dishes, mainly vegetarian, like sambar, khaman dhokla, rice preparation, etc.