Surnames: Lightfoot. Can anyone tell me the history of the surname Lightfoot. I am writing a paper on it and would like to know the origin, what it stands for, the different spellings and so on. 
Lightfoot at RootsWeb databases. Lightfoot in RootsWeb surname mailing lists. Lightfoot genealogy mailing list for correspondence and sharing of information pertaining to family histories of the Lightfoot surname and its variations. Or check the index of mailing lists for a sound-alike name
Lightfoot Surname Origin. A name given on account of swiftness in running, or expertness in dancing; one who is nimble or active. Source: An Etymological Dictionary of Family and Christian Names With an Essay on their Derivation and Import; Arthur, William, M.A.; New York, NY: Sheldon, Blake, Bleeker & CO., 1857.
Lightfoot may refer to: 1  Lightfoot (surname). 2  Lightfoot (lacrosse) , Native American lacrosse player. 3  Lightfoot, Virginia, an area of York County that is west of Williamsburg, VA. 
Lightfoot is a surname. Notable people with the surname include: 1  Chris Lightfoot (footballer) (born 1970), former English footballer. 2  Claude Lightfoot (1910–1986), African-American activist. 3  David Lightfoot, Australian film producer. 
There is more to Lightfoot family history than the origin of your surname: Start your Genealogy to find your personal Lightfoot family ancestry. It's easy to get started. Just begin your family tree with what you already know. A name given on account of swiftness in running, or expertness in dancing; one who is nimble or active. Source: An Etymological Dictionary of Family and Christian Names With an Essay on their Derivation and Import; Arthur, William, M.A.; New York, NY: Sheldon, Blake, Bleeker & CO., 1857.
You can find out where the majority of the Lightfoot families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. Click on a circle in the chart to view Lightfoot immigration records. You can find out when most of the Lightfoot families immigrated to the United States. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era.
John Lightfoote, an early settler in America, was recorded on a Census of those resident in Virginia in 1624. A notable bearer of the name was Joseph Barber Lightfoot, chaplain to Queen Victoria (1862), and bishop of Durham (1879 - 1889). A Coat of Arms granted to the Lightfoot family is a barry of six gold and red, on a bend sable, three escallops argent. This unusual surname is an interesting example of that sizeable group of early European surnames that were gradually created from the habitual use of nicknames.
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Hugh Lihtfott, which was dated 1206, in the Curia Regis Rolls of Lincolnshire, during the reign of King John, known as Lackland, 1199 - 1216. This unusual surname is an interesting example of that sizeable group of early European surnames that were gradually created from the habitual use of nicknames.