Healthy human body fluids typically register in a very narrow pH range. The pH of blood and tissues should be approximately 7.3 (slightly alkaline) while that of saliva and urine should be 6.8 to 7.0 (neutral). Readings below this range indicate excess acidity. 
The pH in the human digestive tract varies greatly (see Human Digestive Tract pH Range Chart on the left side). The pH of saliva is usually between 6.5 - 7.5. After we chew and swallow food it then enters the fundic or upper portion of the stomach which has a pH between 4.0 - 6.5. The pH of any solution is the measure of its hydrogen-ion concentration. The higher the pH reading, the more alkaline and oxygen rich the fluid is. The lower the pH reading, the more acidic and oxygen deprived the fluid is. The pH range is from 0 to 14, with 7.0 being neutral.
Research shows that unless the body's pH level is slightly alkaline, the body cannot heal itself. So, no matter what type of modality you choose to use to take care of your health problem, it won't be as effective until the pH level is up. The pH of any solution is the measure of its hydrogen-ion concentration. The higher the pH reading, the more alkaline and oxygen rich the fluid is. The lower the pH reading, the more acidic and oxygen deprived the fluid is. The pH range is from 0 to 14, with 7.0 being neutral.
The Importance of pH Balance in the Human Body. Different fluids in the human body generally have a delicate range of acid-alkaline balance they maintain for optimal functioning. Human blood has a normal pH of about 7.41. The pH of urine has a wider range. Normal ranges for urine pH are from 4.5 to 8
Maintaining a slightly alkaline pH is key to preventing disease. The human body is an indivisible, integrated organism, not a collection of various unrelated parts. In this vein, there are various mechanisms in your body that work together to maintain a proper pH balance throughout your body. 
Human body as a complex doesn't have short pH level interval. There are enormous difference among pH of different organs. Blood's average pH is 7,35-7,45, stomach's pH is 1,5-2, small intestine's pH¨is alkaline, large intestine's pH is acidic (6 and lower). Best Answer: The normal pH of blood running through arteries (large elastic-walled blood vessels that carry blood from the heart to other parts of the body) is 7.4; the pH of blood in the veins (vessels that transports blood to the heart) is about 7.35.
A common pH definition is: . . Blood in the human body should be close to 7.4 on the pH scale. A pH level of less than 7 indicates an acidic solution while a pH greater than 7 indicates an alkaline solution. 7 is the pH level of distilled water. PH stands for potential hydrogen. 
Acid base balance in the human body is essential for all living organisms. pH stands for potential hydrogen, and is defined as the Negative logarithm of the concentration of hydrogen ions. pH is measured on a pH scale ranging from 0 to 14. 0 is considered highly acidic, while a pH of 14 is very basic, and a pH of 7 is neutral. Since pH is measured on a log scale, this means a pH of 9 is ten times more basic than a pH of 8. This alone gives you an idea of how important acid base balance in the human body is.
Normal urine pH averages about 6.0. Saliva has a pH between 6.0 and 7.4. Source: Guyton, Arthur C. Textbook of Medical Physiology, 8th ed., pp. 331, 340, 711. And yes, there are pH test strips sold. The human body is well prepared to keep the pH in a very narrow range. For instance, blood is well buffered. Best Answer: The normal pH of blood running through arteries (large elastic-walled blood vessels that carry blood from the heart to other parts of the body) is 7.4; the pH of blood in the veins (vessels that transports blood to the heart) is about 7.35.
THE pH REGULATORY SYSTEM OF THE BODY. The pH balance of the human bloodstream is recognized by all medical physiology texts as one of the most important biochemical balances in all of human body chemistry. pH is the acronym for Potential Hydrogen. In definition, it is the degree of concentration of hydrogen ions in a substance or solution. 