: something (as a line) that is oblique. 2. : any of several oblique muscles; especially: any of the thin flat muscles forming the middle and outer layers of the lateral walls of the abdomen. See oblique defined for English-language learners. 1 oblique. 2  Harden … , who missed a month with a strained left oblique muscle, has become one of the game's most intimidating starters in just his second full big league season. — 3 Albert Chen, Sports Illustrated, 8 Aug. 2005. 4  They were painted in oil paints on old-fashioned canvas.
1 Neither parallel nor at right angles to a specified or implied line; slanting: we sat on the settee oblique to the fireplace. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  In older well-elongated cells, part of the immobile mitochondria is already arranged along parallel lines transverse or oblique to the cell axis. 1.3 Geometry (Of a cone, cylinder, etc.) with an axis not perpendicular to the plane of its base. Example sentences. 1  Since the triangle ABC has an oblique shape, as the first step, the triangle is redefined to a shape where the integration basis remains same as ABD.
Adj. 1. oblique-slanting or inclined in direction or course or position--neither parallel nor perpendicular nor right-angled; the oblique rays of the winter sun; acute and obtuse angles are oblique angles; the axis of an oblique cone is not perpendicular to its base. 2. Botany Having the part on one side of the midrib of a different size or shape than the part on the other side. Used of a leaf. 3. Anatomy Situated in a slanting position; not transverse or longitudinal: oblique muscles or ligaments.
Noun. 1. oblique-any grammatical case other than the nominative. oblique case. grammatical case, case-nouns or pronouns or adjectives (often marked by inflection) related in some way to other words in a sentence. accusative, accusative case, objective case-the case of nouns serving as the direct object of a verb. 2. Botany Having the part on one side of the midrib of a different size or shape than the part on the other side. Used of a leaf. 3. Anatomy Situated in a slanting position; not transverse or longitudinal: oblique muscles or ligaments.
Definition of OBLIQUE for Kids. : having a slanting position or direction: neither perpendicular nor parallel. 1 oblique. 2  Harden … , who missed a month with a strained left oblique muscle, has become one of the game's most intimidating starters in just his second full big league season. — 3 Albert Chen, Sports Illustrated, 8 Aug. 2005. 4  They were painted in oil paints on old-fashioned canvas.
adjective. The definition of oblique is slanted or tilted direction. It also refers to something that is misleading or not straight to the point. 1  An example of oblique is a kitchen table that isn't arranged straight in the center of the kitchen, but that is instead tilted at an angle away from the walls and cabinets.
1 An example of oblique is a kitchen table that isn't arranged straight in the center of the kitchen, but that is instead tilted at an angle away from the walls and cabinets. 2  An example of oblique is an argument that has no clear point or thesis to it. It also refers to something that is misleading or not straight to the point. 1 
Examples of OBLIQUE. 1  The short lines of the letter “ k ” are oblique lines. 2  oblique. 3  Harden … , who missed a month with a strained left oblique muscle, has become one of the game's most intimidating starters in just his second full big league season. 1 oblique. 2  Harden … , who missed a month with a strained left oblique muscle, has become one of the game's most intimidating starters in just his second full big league season. — 3 Albert Chen, Sports Illustrated, 8 Aug. 2005. 4  They were painted in oil paints on old-fashioned canvas.
oblique. Definitions: 1. Slanting; deviating from the perpendicular, horizontal, sagittal, or coronal plane of the body. In radiography, a projection that is neither frontal nor lateral. The definition information for oblique is provided by Stedman's. You can search our medical dictionary here. Stedman's, part of Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, provides a comprehensive line of health-science publications for healthcare professionals and medical students.