I spent between 75 and 100 hours total on GMAT prep before I took the exam, spread over a few months. Depending on how strong you are to start, you should assume that it will take you this long.
The only restriction is that you can only take the GMAT exam once every 31 calendar days and no more than five (5) times in a rolling 12-month period. If you take the GMAT test more often than allowed, your new scores will not be reported and you will forfeit the entire test fee.
I took my first GMAT test this past weekend and I scored a 740 (49Q / 42V / 8 IR). Your guidelines state to not retake the exam – however I am wonder if my situation is slightly different. I accidentally went over my break before the math section by 5 minutes.
Also, if you score an 800 on the exam, you will not be allowed to retake the test for another 5 years! You can only take the test once every 16 calendar days. If you attempt to take the test before that time period has elapsed, your new scores will not be reported and you lose your test administration fee.
You will receive 5 scores on the GMAT: an overall score, a subscore for the Verbal section, a subscore for the Quantitative section, and scores for the Analytical Writing Assessment and Integrated Reasoning sections. Your overall score will be from 200 to 800 and the subscores will be scored from 0 to 60.
Great! use it! Remember that your GMAT score is valid for five years, and it’s pretty hard to take the GMAT too soon. The more time you have, the better, but we consider two months the absolute minimum amount of time you should build into your calendar between your test date and your application deadlines.
Keep in mind that you can only take the GMAT once per calendar month and no more than five times per year. Your three most recent valid (within five years) scores will be reported on your score report.
GMAT scores are valid for 5 years. Every time you take the test and send your score to a school, the school will be able to see every GMAT score you have attained in the previous 5 years.
You can retake the GMAT up to 5 times in any 12-month period, but no more than once in any 16-day period. You can request to GMAC in writing if you want to take it more than that, but applications are only considered after you have actually taken the 5th test.