High K-induced contractions in the smooth muscle of rabbit aorta and guinea pig taenia coli may be described as follows: High K depolarizes the smooth muscle cell membrane and opens voltage dependent Ca channels, resulting in an influx of extracellular Ca and an activation of contractile machinery.
Potassium plays a role in many body functions including transmission of nerve signals, muscle contractions, fluid balance, and various chemical reactions. Potassium is safe for most people when taken by mouth in amounts of up to 90 mEq of total potassium from the diet and supplements combined.
Potassium is a very important mineral for the proper function of all cells, tissues, and organs in the human body. It is also an electrolyte, a substance that conducts electricity in the body, along with sodium, chloride, calcium, and magnesium. Potassium is crucial to heart function and plays a key role in skeletal and smooth muscle contraction, making it important for normal digestive and muscular function.
This movement of calcium ions triggers the muscle cell to contract. Magnesium ions found in the fluid surrounding the cells generate a small electrical charge in response to the calcium ions and propels the calcium ions back across the calcium sensitive potassium pump in the cell membrane. This stimulates potassium ions to flow out of the cell, which produces muscle cell relaxation.
Electrolytes are especially important for normal contraction of skeletal and cardiac muscle fibers. Without the appropriate balance of electrolytes such as potassium and sodium, heart contractions become abnormal and the risk of heart attack increases.
Sodium and Potassium. Sodium and potassium play essential roles in muscle contraction because of their importance in nerve function. Your nervous system communicates with your muscles through structures called neuromuscular junctions, and the activation of a nerve triggers muscle contraction.
Potassium, along with sodium and calcium, functions as an electrolyte, which means that it balances the amount of fluid in the body and transmits the tiny electrical nerve impulses. Its role in transmitting electrical impulses gives potassium an important role in muscle contractions.
The balance between sodium and potassium creates an electrical and chemical gradient that functions to transport molecules in and out of the cell and transmit nerve signals that induce muscle contraction.