As for Israeli citizens, entering the UAE on an Israeli passport or applying for a UAE visa is not normally permitted, but Israeli citizens can transit through the UAE ... usually. 1 Dubai is generally perceived as being the most tolerant, and if you do have a evidence of a visit to Israel in your passport, try and enter the UAE in Dubai rather than other emirates. 2  Abu Dhabi might be ok also, but Sharjah and Ras Al Khaimah could be more difficult or inconsistent.
Visiting Israel after a trip to Dubai. 1  There are no entry restrictions to Israel for visitors who have a visa stamp from Abu Dhabi, Dubai or anywhere else in the UAE, however on entry to Israel you might be questioned a bit more than if you had not been to the UAE. 1 Dubai is generally perceived as being the most tolerant, and if you do have a evidence of a visit to Israel in your passport, try and enter the UAE in Dubai rather than other emirates. 2  Abu Dhabi might be ok also, but Sharjah and Ras Al Khaimah could be more difficult or inconsistent.
An Israeli passport. Visa requirements for Israeli citizens refers to regulations pertaining to visas for holders of Israeli passports. According to the 2015 Visa Restrictions Index, Israeli passport holders can visit 145 countries and territories visa-free or with visa on arrival. People who make aliyah to Israel are generally not eligible for an Israeli passport until they have resided in Israel for at least one year, and any oleh's (naturalized citizen 's) passport may be revoked and replaced with a laissez-passer if he has not resided in Israel for 3 out of any 5 years.
If spite of their close proximity, travel between Israel and the United Arab Emirates isn't always an easy affair. As of February 2011, the United Arab Emirates is one of several Arab nations to restrict entry for those tourists who've previously visited Israel. 1 Although it's not guaranteed that Dubai border officials will subject your passport to more intense scrutiny than searching for the Israeli passport stamp itself, the presence of a stamp from an Arab nation's border with Israel is a dead giveaway that you were recently there.
Step 4. Answer No if border officials in Dubai ask you whether you've recently traveled to Israel -- and if, for whatever reason, you have an Israeli stamp in your passport, don't fly to Dubai or attempt to enter the United Arab Emirates. 1 Although it's not guaranteed that Dubai border officials will subject your passport to more intense scrutiny than searching for the Israeli passport stamp itself, the presence of a stamp from an Arab nation's border with Israel is a dead giveaway that you were recently there.
Best Answer: Jews are allowed to enter the UAE. Just foreigners having an Israeli stamp in their passport or Israeli citizen are denied entry. An Israeli stamp inside the passport can easily be avoided for people who are entiteld to receive a visa up on arrival in Israel. They can get the visa stamp on an extra AL-17 form instead inside the passport.
Israel-Israeli Stamp in Passport when entering Dubai UAE. Many people, and online sources, will say visas (and entry to Dubai, Abu Dhabi, or other UAE emirates) are not permitted for anyone with an Israeli stamp in their passport. Israeli citizens visiting Abu Dhabi, Dubai, UAE. 1  Shahar Peer, a female tennis player from Israel, attended the February 2010 Dubai Tennis Championship and got as far as the quarter finals before being taken down by Serena Williams.
1 Israeli citizens are normally denied visas to the UAE however, and entry might be denied to Israelis travelling on another passport, or other nationals who were born in Israel-check with the UAE immigration department or your nearest UAE embassy in that case. 1 Dubai is generally perceived as being the most tolerant, and if you do have a evidence of a visit to Israel in your passport, try and enter the UAE in Dubai rather than other emirates. 2  Abu Dhabi might be ok also, but Sharjah and Ras Al Khaimah could be more difficult or inconsistent.
Israeli citizens are banned from travelling to the United Arab Emirates, which includes Dubai. But dual nationals can use alternative passports to enter the country. Many Israelis hold dual nationality. The move follows the assassination of a Hamas commander, Mahmoud al-Mabhouh, in Dubai on 20 January. 