The Cenozoic Era was the first era that saw humans evolve. Much of what the common population thinks of as evolution all happened in the Cenozoic Era. The first period of the Cenozoic Era is called the Tertiary Period. Recently, the Tertiary Period has been broken down into the Paleogene Period and Neogene Period. The modern human evolved and became the dominant species on Earth. Other mammals on Earth continued to diversify and branch off into various species. The same happened with marine species. There were a few extinctions over this time period as well, due to the changing climate.
Early Modern Homo sapiens. All people today are classified as Homo sapiens. Our species of humans first began to evolve nearly 200,000 years ago in association with technologies not unlike those of the early Neandertals. It is now clear that early Homo sapiens, or modern humans, did not come after the Neandertals but were their contemporaries. It would be a mistake to assume that from the time modern Homo sapiens began migrating out of Africa that all people in that continent were modern humans. The video below presents evidence of pockets of archaic humans surviving in West Africa until at least 13,000 years ago.
The timeline of human evolution outlines the major events in the development of the human species, Homo sapiens, and the evolution of human ancestors. It includes brief explanations of some of the species, genera, and the higher ranks of taxa that are seen today as possible ancestors of modern humans. Homo heidelbergensis may be a common ancestor of humans and Neanderthals. It is morphologically very similar to Homo erectus but Homo heidelbergensis had a larger brain-case, about 93% the size of that of Homo sapiens.
The topic typically focuses on the evolutionary history of the primates —in particular the genus Homo, and the emergence of Homo sapiens as a distinct species of the hominids (or great apes)—rather than studying the earlier history that led to the primates. The earliest fossils of anatomically modern humans are from the Middle Paleolithic, about 200,000 years ago such as the Omo remains of Ethiopia; later fossils from Es Skhul cave in Israel and Southern Europe begin around 90,000 years ago (0.09 million years ago).
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The estimate is that modern humans (Homo sapiens) have been around about 200,000 to about 250,000 years (one-quarter million years). Homo sapiens is that only surviving species in a branch (Homo) that split from the other apes about 5.3 million years ago. 
Humans did not evolve from monkeys. Humans are more closely related to modern apes than to monkeys, but we didn't evolve from apes, either. Humans share a common ancestor with modern African apes, like gorillas and chimpanzees. Since the earliest hominid species diverged from the ancestor we share with modern African apes, 5 to 8 million years ago, there have been at least a dozen different species of these humanlike creatures. Many of these hominid species are close relatives, but not human ancestors.
The first homonids (animals from the same genus as people) evolved about 3 million years ago. Our species, Homo sapiens, evolved about 200,000 years ago. Humans, chimpanzees, gorillas and orangutans share an earlie … r still common ancestor. These great apes and the gibbons of the Hylobatidae share an even earlier common ancestor. That is how evolution works, by common ancestry, the pattern of phylogeny tracing this out.
The first homonids (animals from the same genus as people) evolved about 3 million years ago. Our species, Homo sapiens, evolved about 200,000 years ago. All of the time since the dinosaurs died out 65.5 million years ago is called the Cenozoic Era, thus humans evolved in the Cenozoic. Humans, chimpanzees, gorillas and orangutans share an earlie … r still common ancestor. These great apes and the gibbons of the Hylobatidae share an even earlier common ancestor. That is how evolution works, by common ancestry, the pattern of phylogeny tracing this out.
About 8 million years ago, a species lived that diverged. One line evolved generation by generation, species by species, population by population to the human, another line travelled through change-time species by species, generation by generation, population by population to the extant chimpanzee. Equally, monkeys did not evolve from tarsiers. Humans, chimpanzees, gorillas and orangutans share an earlie … r still common ancestor. These great apes and the gibbons of the Hylobatidae share an even earlier common ancestor. That is how evolution works, by common ancestry, the pattern of phylogeny tracing this out.
One line evolved generation by generation, species by species, population by population to the human, another line travelled through change-time species by species, generation by generation, population by population to the extant chimpanzee. Equally, monkeys did not evolve from tarsiers. Humans, chimpanzees, gorillas and orangutans share an earlie … r still common ancestor. These great apes and the gibbons of the Hylobatidae share an even earlier common ancestor. That is how evolution works, by common ancestry, the pattern of phylogeny tracing this out.