Warm humid weather. Condenser coil is dirty. Refrigerator is new and Energy Star rated: It's normal for a brand new refrigerator to run longer on initial startup to allow the temperature to stabilize which usually takes up to 24 hours. 
Both are used to initiate the defrost cycle by turning on the defrost heater at specific intervals and for a specific amount of time. Mechanical timers are more common and usually activate a defrost cycle every 8-10 hours of compressor run time. This normally occurs about once every day or two. 
1 In extremely hot, humid areas, run time may approach 100%. 2  Loading the refrigerator or freezer with a large amount of food, especially warm or hot foods. 3  An empty or lightly loaded freezer. 4  The freezer should be at least 3/4 full to maintain proper temperatures and reduce time. 1 An empty or lightly loaded freezer. 2  The freezer should be at least 3/4 full to maintain proper temperatures and reduce time. 3  When the door is opened, some of the heavy cold air slides out of the cabinet, pulling warm air in at the top. 4  Damaged or dirty door gaskets.
Once the contents are cooled down, a modern refrigerator in good condition might be expected to run 27% to 37% of the time at an ambient temperature of 70°F, i.e., 6.5 to 8.9 hours per day, and 45% to 61% of the time at an ambient temperature of 90°°F, i.e., 10.8 to 14.6 hours per day. Depends on the size of the burner, if the unit is 5000 btu's ,(probably much smaller), but it makes the math easy that would run a fridge (full throttle) for 20 hours. The fl … ame cycles, so it won't use that non stop.
The only practical way to determine how long a refrigerator runs each day is to connect a run-time counter to the compressor motor circuit and operate the refrigerator for one to two weeks, or longer, then read the total run time from the counter and calculate the average number of hours the refrigerator ran each day. Depends on the size of the burner, if the unit is 5000 btu's ,(probably much smaller), but it makes the math easy that would run a fridge (full throttle) for 20 hours. The fl … ame cycles, so it won't use that non stop.
Refrigerator Thermometer, Hang or stand this item inside of your refrigerator to monitor the temperature. If this is a new refrigerator, it will run for a long time, almost constantly, before it gets cooled enough to stabilize the interior temperature. Allow up to 24 hours for it to stabilize. The refrigerator should be at least one half to two thirds full. This will help to maintain a stable temperature inside the unit. Once the thermostat turns the compressor on, it will run until the temperature inside the refrigerator is lower than the setting of the thermostat. Refrigerator Defrost Thermostat, Commonly used in refrigerators from Whirlpool, Kenmore, and others.
How often should the fridge run? It seems that every time I open the fridge door (for around 10-20 seconds), the fridge will run (make noise) for about 15 minutes. Is it normal for a 1 year old fridge? Originally Posted by elty It seems that every time I open the fridge door (for around 10-20 seconds), the fridge will run (make noise) for about 15 minutes.
Factors that contributes to run time: 1  In extremely hot, humid areas, run time may approach 100%. 2  Loading the refrigerator or freezer with a large amount of food, especially warm or hot foods. 3  An empty or lightly loaded freezer. 4  The freezer should be at least 3/4 full to maintain proper temperatures and reduce time. 1 An empty or lightly loaded freezer. 2  The freezer should be at least 3/4 full to maintain proper temperatures and reduce time. 3  When the door is opened, some of the heavy cold air slides out of the cabinet, pulling warm air in at the top. 4  Damaged or dirty door gaskets.
Most frost-free refrigerators have a timer that runs them for 6 hours, then defrosts them for 30-35 minutes. This means, at the the upper limit a refrigerator might run 24 hours out of every 26 hours, or an equivalent of 22.1 hours per day. Depends on the size of the burner, if the unit is 5000 btu's ,(probably much smaller), but it makes the math easy that would run a fridge (full throttle) for 20 hours. The fl … ame cycles, so it won't use that non stop.