If the amine and carboxylic acid functional groups in amino acids join together to form amide bonds, a chain of amino acid units, called a peptide, is formed. A simple tetrapeptide structure is shown in the following diagram. 
One loses a hydrogen and oxygen from its carboxyl group (COOH) and the other loses a hydrogen from its amino group (NH 2). This reaction produces a molecule of water (H 2 O) and two amino acids joined by a peptide bond (-CO-NH-). The two joined amino acids are called a dipeptide. A peptide bond can be broken by hydrolysis (the adding of water). In the presence of water they will break down and release 8–16 kilojoule / mol (2–4 kcal / mol) of free energy. This process is extremely slow. In living organisms, the process is catalyzed by enzymes.
R1-CO-NH-R2+ H2O R1-COOH +R2-NH2 Hydrolysis of the peptide bond Protein structures The sequence of amino acids in a protein is called its primary structure. Within a chain the atoms are held together by covalent bonds. Each protein has its own characteristic sequence of amino acids. The shapes of some amino acid molecules Peptide bond formation Two amino acids can undergo a condensation reaction to form a dipeptide. Further condensation reactions result in a polypeptide. The amino acid units are linked by peptide bonds (sometimes called peptide links). R 1 -COOH + R 2 -NH 2 R 1 -CO-NH-R 2 + H 2 O. Formation of the peptide bond. Rotation about the carbon-nitrogen bond in the peptide link is restricted
Best Answer: peptide bond is a chemical bond formed between two molecules when the carboxyl group of one molecule reacts with the amino group of the other molecule, thereby releasing a molecule of water (H2O). This is a dehydration synthesis reaction (also known as a condensation reaction), and usually occurs between amino acids. The resulting CO-NH bond is called a peptide bond, and the resulting molecule is an amide. The four-atom functional group-C(=O)NH-is called an amide group or (in the context of proteins) a peptide group. Polypeptides and proteins are chains of amino acids held together by peptide bonds, as is the backbone of PNA
Share to: A peptide bond is a covalent chemical bond formed between two molecules when the carboxyl group of one molecule reacts with the amino group of the other molecule, thereby rele … asing a molecule of water (H2O). This is a dehydration synthesis reaction. 17 people found this useful. 
A peptide bond (amide bond) is a covalent chemical bond formed between two amino acid molecules. A peptide bond can be broken by hydrolysis (the adding of water). In the presence of water they will break down and release 8–16 kilojoule / mol (2–4 kcal / mol) of free energy. This process is extremely slow. In living organisms, the process is catalyzed by enzymes.
entity is the carboxyl group, -COOH. Amino acids link to each when the carboxyl group of one molecule reacts with the amino group of another molecule, creating a peptide bond-C(=O)NH-and releasing a molecule of water (H 2 O). Amino acids are the basic building blocks of enzymes, hormones, proteins, and body tissues