Many sports teams in the United States (U.S.) have official mascots, sometimes enacted by costumed humans or even live animals. One of the earliest was a taxidermy mount for the Chicago Cubs, in 1908, and later a live animal used in 1916 by the same team. A famous example of a band mascot is Eddie the Head of the English heavy metal band Iron Maiden. Eddie is a zombie-like creature which is personified in different forms on all of the band's albums, most of its singles and some of its promotional merchandise.
Audran's operetta was so popular that it was translated into English as The Mascot, introducing into the English language a word for any animal, person, or object that brings good luck. The word with this definition was then incorporated into many other languages, although often in the French form mascotte. A famous example of a band mascot is Eddie the Head of the English heavy metal band Iron Maiden. Eddie is a zombie-like creature which is personified in different forms on all of the band's albums, most of its singles and some of its promotional merchandise.
Mascot. The term mascot – defined as a term for any person, animal, or object thought to bring luck – colloquially includes anything used to represent a group with a common public identity, such as a school, professional sports team, society, military unit, or brand name. Team mascots may take the form of a logo, person, live animal, inanimate object, or a costumed character, and often appear at team matches and other related events, sports mascots are often used as marketing tools for their teams to children.
In short a mascot is a representative figure, a symbol and a communication tool for somebody/some organization. At its best the mascot personifies their values, communicates effectively and helps them stand out from the crowd. I go over this in more detail here. The following elaborates on qualities of a good mascot – things to aim for. 1  Connection to company profession and values. 2  Simplest thing is to have character do the job the company is best known for. 3  Then give the mascot personality, style and way of doing things that reflect the best things the company stands for.
mascot. 1  any person, animal, or thing supposed to bring good luck. 2  any person, animal, or thing adopted by a group, esp. by a sports team, as a symbol or for good luck: the team's mascot is a bear. 1
Mascot is a suburb of Sydney, in the state of New South Wales, Australia. Mascot is located 7 kilometres south of the Sydney central business district and is the administrative centre of the City of Botany Bay. In 1920, Mascot was chosen as the site of a public airfield. Nigel Love was leasing 200 acres (0.81 km 2) from the Kensington Race club and in 1921 the Commonwealth Government purchased 161 acres (0.65 km 2) for this purpose.
Noun. 1. mascot-a person or animal that is adopted by a team or other group as a symbolic figure. organism, being-a living thing that has (or can develop) the ability to act or function independently. mascot. n. 1. a person, animal, or thing considered to bring good luck. [C19: from French mascotte, from Provencal provençal mascotto, charm from masco]. witch
mascot. a person, animal or thing supposed to bring good luck. mascot. n. 1. a person, animal, or thing considered to bring good luck. [C19: from French mascotte, from Provencal provençal mascotto, charm from masco]. witch
A mascot is essentially a well designed cartoon character with strong connection to the company it represents. The following elaborates on qualities of a good mascot – things to aim for. 1  Connection to company profession and values. 2  Simplest thing is to have character do the job the company is best known for. 3  Then give the mascot personality, style and way of doing things that reflect the best things the company stands for.