Bluebirds usually hatch after a 12- to 14-day incubation period, and they are then raised for up to 20 days before leaving the nest. Discover the life of a young bluebird with information from an active Audubon member in this free video on bluebirds. 
If for some reason the temperature has dropped below the correct temperature on a few occasions, you could find some of your eggs only hatching on day 22, 23, or even on day 24 or 25. Whereas fertilized chicken eggs usually take exactly 21 days to hatch, most duck eggs take 28 days, apart from Muscovy ducks. As a general rule of thumb, the eggs of Muscovy ducks take 35 days, but once again, it can vary slightly depending on conditions. The answer to that is 21 days exactly, although you need to bear in mind that this can vary, depending on a number of circumstances. Generally speaking however, fertile chicken eggs which are hatched out by a hen will take 21 days before you see little faces staring at you from underneath their mamma's wings.
So, how long does it take for fertilized chicken eggs to hatch? The answer to that is 21 days exactly, although you need to bear in mind that this can vary, depending on a number of circumstances. Generally speaking however, fertile chicken eggs which are hatched out by a hen will take 21 days before you see little faces staring at you from underneath their mamma's wings.
Fertility and Candling. Natural fertility is rarely 100% - it may vary from 55% to 95% with season, condition and type of birds. You might be safe to expect that 50% to 75% of the fertile eggs will hatch, though 90%-100% hatches can and does happen. With shipped eggs the hatch rate is approximately 50% overall. Turning. Turning is essential during the first 14 days of incubation and should be continued until 3 days prior to the eggs expected hatch day. If hand turning, always turn the eggs an uneven number of times a day, so the eggs do not spent two nights in a row in the same position.
If on the other hand you use an incubator in order to hatch fertilized chicken eggs, they can sometimes hatch a day or two early, or they can also hatch out a few days late. Things like humidity and temperature play a significant role. The answer to that is 21 days exactly, although you need to bear in mind that this can vary, depending on a number of circumstances. Generally speaking however, fertile chicken eggs which are hatched out by a hen will take 21 days before you see little faces staring at you from underneath their mamma's wings.
6. Record the day and how many eggs you've incubated on a calendar. You should be able to estimate your hatch date based on average incubation times for the bird species you want to hatch. For example, chicken eggs typically take 21 days to hatch, whereas many duck varieties and peafowl may take 28 days. 7. Turn the eggs at least three times daily. 1 You should expect about 50-75% of the fertile eggs will hatch, although it possible that this could be higher. 2  Store eggs in cartons at 40 to 70 degrees F (4.5 to 21.1 degrees C) until ready to incubate. 3  Rotate the eggs daily by propping up different ends of the carton each day or carefully turning over the carton.
Baby peeps will hatch from their eggs about 21 days after they begin the incubation period. In an incubator, this number can be easily monitored. However, when a laying hen who hatches her own eggs, she will first lay a clutch over a period of a couple weeks and then begin sitting on them all at the same time. 
Related tutorials: How-To #2: The First 60 Days. General Hints. First things first-eggs should hatch in 21 days, though some may hatch a day or 2 early and some a day or 2 late, after the incubation period began. Turning. Turning is essential during the first 14 days of incubation and should be continued until 3 days prior to the eggs expected hatch day. If hand turning, always turn the eggs an uneven number of times a day, so the eggs do not spent two nights in a row in the same position.
With optimum conditions such as temperature and humidity a chicken egg takes 21 days to hatch.    From when it was layed, about 20-28 days,depending on the breed. From th … e time when the egg first cracked, about one day. This is a very slow process. Turkey eggs usually take 21 to 28 days to hatch depending on what they are incubated in like an incubator or by a hen. It also depends on how fertile it is and how it is cared … for. It usually takes closer to 28 days. + 158 others found this useful.