Proton-pump inhibitors (PPIs) are a group of drugs whose main action is a pronounced and long-lasting reduction of gastric acid production. They are the most potent inhibitors of acid secretion available. In general, proton pump inhibitors are well tolerated, and the incidence of short-term adverse effects is relatively low. Long-term use of PPIs has been less studied than short-term use, and the lack of data makes it difficult to make definitive statements.
Proton pumps are protein complexes that. break down water into hydrogen and oxygen. synthesize water from hydrogen and oxygen. pump protons and electrons through the cell membrane. pump protons from the exterior of the cell to the interior. pump protons from the interior of the cell to the exterior. 2. 
proton pump. see sodium pump. proton pump inhibitor. a class of therapeutic agents which are used to counteract the effects of proton pumps in tissues and organs, particularly used in counteracting gastric hypersecretion and acidity.
Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) are a class of very effective and generally safe medicines used to treat heartburn, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), and gastric ulcers.But not everyone who experiences heartburn needs one. 
A proton pump is an integral membrane protein that is capable of moving protons across a biological membrane. In addition the proton pumps in the mitochondria, plants have a proton ATPase that creates the electrochemical gradients in the plasma membrane of plants, fungi, protists, and many prokaryotes.
Purpose. Proton pump inhibitors are used to treat ulcers; gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), a condition in which backward flow of acid from the stomach causes heartburn and injury of the food pipe (esophagus); and conditions in which the stomach produces too much acid, such as Zollinger-Ellison syndrome. Definition. The proton pump inhibitors are a group of drugs that reduce the secretion of gastric (stomach) acid. They act by binding with the enzyme H+, K(+)-ATPase, hydrogen/potassium adenosine triphosphatase, which is sometimes referred to as the proton pump.
Proton pump. A proton pump is an integral membrane protein that is capable of moving protons across a biological membrane. Mechanisms are based on conformational changes of the protein structure or on the Q cycle. 
In addition to proton pumps in mitochondria, humans (and probably other mammals) have a gastric hydrogen potassium ATPase or H + /K + ATPase that functions as the proton pump of the stomach, primarily responsible for the acidification of the stomach contents (see gastric acid). In addition the proton pumps in the mitochondria, plants have a proton ATPase that creates the electrochemical gradients in the plasma membrane of plants, fungi, protists, and many prokaryotes.