Answer: Turmeric, often misspelled as tumeric, is a pungent Indian spice. It is used in many spice blends as a flavoring and coloring agent. The flavor of turmeric is often described as buttery and slightly bitter, with a hint of mustard and horseradish. Fresh turmeric is more like ginger, but sweeter and more aromatic. Turmeric is often suggested as a substitute for the much more expensive saffron (although not by professional chefs) and annatto, because it produces that beautiful golden color associated with saffron-infused recipes.
Not hot/spicy at all Turmeric Description Turmeric is the dried root of the plant Curcuma longa. Noted for its bright yellow color, the root is related to and similar in size to ginger. Turmeric's flavor resembles a combination of ginger and pepper. Uses Turmeric is a powerful coloring agent. Used to color and flavor prepared mustard, pickles, relish, chutneys, and rice dishes as well as butter and cheese, turmeric is also used in spice blends such as curry powder and rendangs in the Caribbean, India, North Africa, the Middle East and Indonesia. Source(s): http://allrecipes.com/HowTo/Turmeric/det...
TURMERIC Overview Information. Turmeric is a plant. You probably know turmeric as the main spice in curry. It has a warm, bitter taste and is frequently used to flavor or color curry powders, mustards, butters, and cheeses. But the root of turmeric is also used widely to make medicine. Turmeric is used for arthritis, heartburn (dyspepsia), stomach pain, diarrhea, intestinal gas, stomach bloating, loss of appetite, jaundice, liver problems and gallbladder disorders.
Turmeric-spice. Turmeric-spice ~ Super Spices. It has a peppery, warm and bitter flavor and a mild fragrance slightly reminiscent of orange and ginger, and while it is best known as one of the ingredients used to make curry, it also gives ballpark mustard its bright yellow color. Curcumin, the major constituent of turmeric-spice that gives the spice its yellow color, can correct the most common expression of the genetic defect that is responsible for cystic fibrosis, suggests an animal study published in the Science (April 2004).
0 0. Turmeric Ground Turmeric Ground Turmeric is the ground rhizome (or root) of the herbaceous, tropical plant, Curcuma longa L. of the ginger family. The rhizomes have a characteristic, peppery, spicy aroma and a bitter, pungent taste. The essential constituent of turmeric is cucurmin, which provides the yellow color. %Match. Turmeric is the ground rhizome (or root) of the herbaceous, tropical plant, Curcuma longa L. of the ginger family. The rhizomes have a characteristic, peppery, spicy aroma and a bitter, pungent taste.
Turmeric (Hindi name: हल्दी, haldi) is a underground stem of a ginger-like plant. It is grown in India, China, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Java, Peru, Australia and the West Indies. It is a bright yellow spice with a pungent flavor. The health benefits of turmeric are enormous. 
Botanical name: Curcuma longa Belonging to the ginger family, turmeric has been used in East India and the Middle East for thousands of years, and is now one of the most highly-prized spices in the world. It's actually unclear whether it was first used for its peppery flavor and the unique kick it lends to foods. Tips on Turmeric. Botanical name: Curcuma longa.