Like a conventional ramjet, a scramjet consists of a constricted tube through which air is compressed, fuel is combusted, and the exhaust is vented at higher speed than the intake air. Also like a ramjet, there are either few or no moving parts. Changing from subsonic to supersonic combustion, the kinetic energy of the freestream air entering the scramjet engine is large compared to the energy released by the reaction of the oxygen content of the air with a fuel (say hydrogen).
As in ramjets, a scramjet relies on high vehicle speed to forcefully compress and decelerate the incoming air before combustion (hence ramjet), but whereas a ramjet decelerates the air to subsonic (speed of sound) velocities before combustion, airflow in a scramjet is supersonic throughout the entire engine. This is the concept behind a different propulsion system called “scramjet”, or “Super Sonic Combustion Ramjet”. The oxygen needed by the engine to combust is taken from the atmosphere passing through the vehicle, instead of from a tank onboard.
On a scramjet... or supersonic combustion ramjet, you have a tube of a design that allows fuel to burn at supersonic speeds so not complex air intake is needed and the only limit on speed is the heat capacity of the aircraft and the engines... a ramjet just needs forward movement... 
Burning occurs subsonically in the ramjet and supersonically in the scramjet. Leaving the burner, the hot exhaust passes through a nozzle, which is shaped to accelerate the flow. Because the exit velocity is greater than the free stream velocity, thrust is created as described by the general thrust equation. The flow exiting a scramjet inlet is supersonic and has fewer shock losses than a ramjet inlet at the same vehicle velocity. In the burner, a small amount of fuel is combined with the air and ignited. In a typical engine, 100 pounds of air/sec. is combined with only 2 pounds of fuel/sec.
More about Scramjet. A scramjet (Supersonic Combustion RAMjet) is a variant of a ramjet in which combustion takes place when the airflow is supersonic. As in ramjets, scramjets also compress the incoming air before combustion using the speed of the vehicle. However, ramjets decelerate the airflow to subsonic speeds within the engine prior to combustion, though airflow in a scramjet is supersonic throughout the entire engine. Ramjet and Scramjets are engines using its own speed to compress air and propel the engine. The ramjet engine technology practically applies in many cases ranging from missiles, supersonic aircraft to artillery rounds, while the scramjet engines are still highly experimental.
As in ramjets, a scramjet relies on high vehicle speed to forcefully compress the incoming air before combustion (hence ram jet), but a ramjet decelerates the air to subsonic velocities before combustion, while airflow in a scramjet is supersonic throughout the entire engine. Space launch vehicles may or may not benefit from having a scramjet stage. A scramjet stage of a launch vehicle theoretically provides a specific impulse of 1000 to 4000 s whereas a rocket provides less than 450 s while in the atmosphere.
The scramjet is composed of three basic components: 1  A converging inlet, where incoming air is compressed and decelerated. 2  A combustor, where gaseous fuel is burned with atmospheric oxygen to produce heat and. 3  A diverging nozzle, where the heated air is accelerated to produce thrust. This is the concept behind a different propulsion system called “scramjet”, or “Super Sonic Combustion Ramjet”. The oxygen needed by the engine to combust is taken from the atmosphere passing through the vehicle, instead of from a tank onboard.
For a scramjet, the kinetic energy of the freestream air entering the scramjet engine is largely comparable to the energy released by the reaction of the oxygen content of the air with a fuel (e.g. hydrogen). Thus the heat released from combustion at Mach 25 is around 10% of the total enthalpy of the working fluid. Space launch vehicles may or may not benefit from having a scramjet stage. A scramjet stage of a launch vehicle theoretically provides a specific impulse of 1000 to 4000 s whereas a rocket provides less than 450 s while in the atmosphere.
A scramjet (supersonic combusting ramjet) is a variant of a ramjet airbreathing jet engine in which combustion takes place in supersonic airflow. Space launch vehicles may or may not benefit from having a scramjet stage. A scramjet stage of a launch vehicle theoretically provides a specific impulse of 1000 to 4000 s whereas a rocket provides less than 450 s while in the atmosphere.
A scramjet (supersonic combustion ramjet) is a variation of a ramjet where combustion of the fuel air mixture occurs at supersonic speeds. This allows the scramjet to achieve greater speeds than a conventional ramjet which slows the incoming air to subsonic speeds before entering the combustion chamber. Changing from subsonic to supersonic combustion, the kinetic energy of the freestream air entering the scramjet engine is large compared to the energy released by the reaction of the oxygen content of the air with a fuel (say hydrogen).