1 Ask yourself what may have caused the high blood sugar, and take action to correct it. 2  Ask your healthcare team if you are not sure what to do. 3  Try to determine if there is a pattern to your blood glucose levels. 4  Check your blood glucose before meals 3 days in a row. In general, high blood glucose, also called 'hyperglycemia', is considered high when it is 160 mg/dl or above your individual blood glucose target. Be sure to ask your healthcare provider what he or she thinks is a safe target for you for blood glucose before and after meals.
Glucose is a sugar with the molecular formula C 6 H 12 O 6. The name glucose (/ˈɡluːkoʊs/) comes from the Greek word γλευκος, meaning sweet wine, must . The suffix  -ose  is a chemical classifier, denoting a carbohydrate. It is also known as dextrose or grape sugar. With 6 carbon atoms, it is classed as a hexose, a sub-category of monosaccharides. 
Maintaining a mean blood glucose level within a normal range is essential to your continued good health. In addition to facilitating the management of your sugar levels, the monitoring of mean blood glucose also plays an important role in the prevention and diagnosis of any disease, particularly diabetes mellitus. Considerations. Testing is the only sure way to know your blood sugar levels. An abnormal blood glucose level does not automatically imply that you have a medical condition. It is normal for levels to fluctuate throughout the course of the day, especially after food consumption.
Glucose (noun). a variety of sugar occurring in nature very abundantly, as in ripe grapes, and in honey, and produced in great quantities from starch, etc., by the action of heat and acids. It is only about half as sweet as cane sugar. Called also dextrose, grape sugar, diabetic sugar, and starch sugar. Starch and cellulose are polymers derived from the dehydration of D-glucose. The other stereoisomer, called L-glucose, is hardly ever found in nature. The name glucose comes from the Greek word glukus, meaning sweet.
Full Definition of GLUCOSE. 1. : a crystalline sugar C6H12O6; specifically: the sweet colorless soluble dextrorotatory form that occurs widely in nature and is the usual form in which carbohydrate is assimilated by animals. 2. : a light-colored syrup made from cornstarch. Definition of GLUCOSE for Kids. : a sugar in plant saps and fruits that is the usual form in which carbohydrate is taken in by the animal body and used as a source of energy.
1 If your blood glucose is 250 or greater and you are on insulin, check your urine for ketones. 2  If you have ketones, follow your sick day rules or call your healthcare team if you are not sure what to do. 3  Ask yourself what may have caused the high blood sugar, and take action to correct it. In general, high blood glucose, also called 'hyperglycemia', is considered high when it is 160 mg/dl or above your individual blood glucose target. Be sure to ask your healthcare provider what he or she thinks is a safe target for you for blood glucose before and after meals.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: glucose (Noun). A simple monosaccharide (sugar) with a molecular formula of CHO; it is a principle source of energy for cellular metabolism. Origin: from related to; note: -ose comes from glucose, not the other way round. Starch and cellulose are polymers derived from the dehydration of D-glucose. The other stereoisomer, called L-glucose, is hardly ever found in nature. The name glucose comes from the Greek word glukus, meaning sweet.
• GLUCOSE (noun). The noun GLUCOSE has 1 sense: 1. a monosaccharide sugar that has several forms; an important source of physiological energy. Familiarity information: GLUCOSE used as a noun is very rare. Hypernyms (glucose is a kind of...): aldohexose (a monosaccharide sugar having six carbon atoms and an aldehyde group). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of glucose): corn sugar (dextrose made by hydrolysis of cornstarch).
Answer: Fasting blood sugar is what it means -- it's fasting, you haven't eaten, and usually in the diabetes world that means that you haven't eaten for about eight hours before you have the test done. 
A blood test may be administered to measure the amount of glucose in your bloodstream -- either through a home test kit or medical laboratory test. Your mean blood glucose refers to the average level of glucose present in your blood and generally reads between 60 and 110 mg per deciliter or lower in healthy adults. Considerations. Testing is the only sure way to know your blood sugar levels. An abnormal blood glucose level does not automatically imply that you have a medical condition. It is normal for levels to fluctuate throughout the course of the day, especially after food consumption.