None of the major carriers will allow children younger than 5 years of age to fly by themselves. If your child is between 5 and 11, most airlines will allow him or her to fly alone as an unaccompanied minor, ironically accompanied by an extra fee for the ticket -- for example, $100 each way on American Airlines.
1 United does not offer unaccompanied minor service to or from other airlines' flights. 2  Children younger than 5 years of age are not accepted as unaccompanied minors. 3  Children 5 to 11 years of age who are traveling alone must use our unaccompanied minor service and pay the applicable service charge.
Children 5 to 11 years of age who are not accompanied on an aircraft by a parent, legal guardian or someone who is at least 18 years of age are considered unaccompanied minors and are subject to specific restrictions.
Unaccompanied Minor Program. The Unaccompanied Minor Program is required for all children 5-14 years old when not traveling in the same compartment with an adult who is at least 18 years old or the child's parent/legal guardian. The program is optional for children 15-17 years old.
Children under the age of 5 must always be accompanied by someone at least 12 years of age flying in the same cabin (18 years of age on some airlines); airlines do not allow kids under 5 to fly alone.
Your child can also use cash to buy a ticket at an airport, an airline’s city ticket office, or a travel agency. • As noted below, at age 15 most airlines will allow a child to fly alone on domestic flights without any unaccompanied-minor procedures. Some airlines permit this for kids as young as 12.
Airlines treat children traveling alone differently depending on the age of the child. Most airlines have a minimum age for their unaccompanied child service, typically five, and a maximum age, typically 12. Children younger than the minimum age will have to travel with an adult.
1 Children ages five through 11 traveling without an accompanying Passenger age 12 or older must travel as an Unaccompanied Minor (UM) on Southwest Airlines. 2  For travel booked on or after April 23, 2010, Southwest Airlines will charge $50 each way ($100 roundtrip) in addition to the air fare per child for UMs to travel.
The Unaccompanied Minor Program is required for all children 5-14 years old when not traveling in the same compartment with an adult who is at least 18 years old or the child's parent/legal guardian. The program is optional for children 15-17 years old.