The sum of the number of protons and neutrons in the nucleus of an atom is called the mass number (A), or nucleon number. For isotopes of an element, the mass number is always different (because the number of neutrons changes and neutrons contribute to the mass number). For example, the number of protons in any atom of hydrogen is 1, and the number of protons in any atom of helium is 2. The number of protons in the nucleus of an atom is called its atomic number (Z), which identifies the atom.
Atomic mass number. The nucleus is made up of protons and neutrons, the number of protons defines which element it is and gives the nucleus its positive charge. The neutrons create different isotopes. The sum of the protons and neutrons is the number of nucleons in the nucleus, this is called its mass number. If you have 6.02x10^23 atoms, it will weigh its atomic weigh in grams. This number is called Avagadro's constant. eg
For every isotope of an element the number of protons in the nucleus is always constant. For example, the number of protons in any atom of hydrogen is 1, and the number of protons in any atom of helium is 2. The number of protons in the nucleus of an atom is called its atomic number (Z), which identifies the atom.
Report Abuse. The actual answer is D, because there are no electrons in the nucleus of an atom. Atomic number-The number of protons in the nucleus of an atom (Since carbon has an atomic number of 6, it has six protons) Atomic mass-The AVERAGE number of protons and neutrons in the nucleus of an atom. 
As mentioned above, note that the atomic mass of an atom is not the same as its mass number. The mass number (symbol: A) of an atom is the sum of the number of protons and the number of neutrons in the nucleus. Mass numbers are always whole numbers with no units. Also, relative isotopic mass is not the same as isotopic mass, and relative atomic mass (also called atomic weight) is not the same as atomic mass. 
The sum of the number of protons and neutrons in the atomic nucleus is called the mass number. For example, Lithium has 3 protons and 4 neutrons in its nucleus. It's mass nu … mber is 7 (3+4). The mass number usually goes in front of the atomic symbol and in superscript, such as 7Li. The protons and neutrons, which are called nucleons when they are talked about as the components of an atomic nucleus, add up to make the atomic mass of an atom. Strictly speaking, the electrons are included, but they weigh next to nothing, being about 1/1836th the mass of a proton