If you are looking for information about when the thyroid makes too much thyroid hormone, see the topic Hyperthyroidism. Hypothyroidism means your thyroid is not making enough thyroid hormone. The thyroid is a butterfly-shaped gland in the front of your neck. It makes hormones that control the way your body uses energy.
Knowledge center. Hypothyroidism, also known as underactive thyroid, is a condition where the thyroid gland does not create enough of a thyroid hormone called thyroxine. Thyroid hormones regulate the way in which the body uses energy-metabolism-and without enough thyroxine many of the body's functions slow down.
Thyroid hormone production is regulated by thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), which is made by the pituitary gland in the brain. When thyroid hormone levels in the blood are low, the pituitary releases more TSH. When thyroid hormone levels are high, the pituitary responds by dropping TSH production.
Hypothyroidism is a condition in which the body lacks sufficient thyroid hormone. Since the main purpose of thyroid hormone is to run the body's metabolism, it is understandable that people with this condition will have symptoms associated with a slow metabolism.
Hypothyroidism is a condition that occurs when the thyroid gland does not produce enough thyroid hormones to meet the needs of the body. The thyroid creates two thyroid hormones, triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) that regulate metabolism. They also affect the following: 1.
Hypothyroidism, also known as underactive thyroid, is a condition where the thyroid gland does not create enough of a thyroid hormone called thyroxine. Thyroid hormones regulate the way in which the body uses energy-metabolism-and without enough thyroxine many of the body's functions slow down.
Thyroid hormones, including SYNTHROID, should not be used either alone or in combination with other drugs for the treatment of obesity or weight loss. In patients with normal thyroid levels, doses of SYNTHROID used daily for hormone replacement are not helpful f