Pleiotropic, autosomal dominant disorder affecting connective tissue: Related Diseases. Pleiotropic, autosomal dominant disorder affecting connective tissue: Pleiotropic, autosomal dominant disorder affecting connective tissue is listed as a type of (or associated with) the following medical conditions in our database: 1  Heart conditions. Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Pleiotropic, autosomal dominant disorder affecting connective tissue is listed as a  rare disease  by the
Ad. Pleiotropy can, at times, cause harm to an organism. This happens when a defect in a single gene causes negative effects relating to several different traits of an organism. One example of this is the disease PKU, or phenylketonuria, which occurs in humans. 
Human genetics: Pleiotropic mutations. Hannah Stower. A large-scale analysis of SNPs and genes that are reported to be associated with common complex diseases and traits has found abundant pleiotropy: that is, each individual gene mutation may have a role in multiple diseases.
Pleiotropy describes the genetic effect of a single gene on multiple phenotypic traits. The underlying mechanism is that the gene codes for a product that is, for example, used by various cells, or has a signaling function on various targets. A classic example of pleiotropy is the human disease phenylketonuria (PKU).
Pleiotropy. Pleiotropy is the phenomenon whereby a single gene has multiple consequences in numerous tissues. Pleiotropic effects stem from both normal and mutated genes, but those caused by mutations are often more noticeable and easier to study. 
Pleiotropic: Producing or having multiple effects from a single gene. For example, the Marfan gene is pleiotropic, potentially causing such diverse effects as long fingers and toes (arachnodactyly), dislocation of the lens of the eye, and dissecting aneurysm of the aorta.
Along with regulating wing development, the vg gene is also pleiotropic. Indirectly, the gene changes the number of egg strings in a fly's ovaries, alters the position of bristles on a fly's scutellum, and decreases the length of a fly's life (Caspari, 1952; Miglani, 2002). The term pleiotropy is derived from the Greek words pleio, which means many, and tropic, which means affecting.. Genes that affect multiple, apparently unrelated, phenotypes are thus called pleiotropic genes (Figure 1). Pleiotropy should not be confused with polygenic traits, in which multiple genes converge to result in a single phenotype
Figure 1: Diagram of pleiotropy. A pleiotropic gene is a single gene that controls more than one trait. © 2008 Nature Education All rights reserved. Today, we know that Mendel's observations were the result of pleiotropy, or the phenomenon in which a single gene contributes to multiple phenotypic traits. The term pleiotropy is derived from the Greek words pleio, which means many, and tropic, which means affecting.. Genes that affect multiple, apparently unrelated, phenotypes are thus called pleiotropic genes (Figure 1). Pleiotropy should not be confused with polygenic traits, in which multiple genes converge to result in a single phenotype
Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (September 2013). Pleiotropy occurs when one gene influences two or more seemingly unrelated phenotypic traits, an example being phenylketonuria, which is a human disease that affects multiple systems but is caused by one gene defect. Consequently, a mutation in a pleiotropic gene may have an effect on some or all traits simultaneously. The underlying mechanism is that the gene codes for a product that is, for example, used by various cells, or has a signaling function on various targets. A classic example of pleiotropy is the human disease phenylketonuria (PKU).