Lester Napoleon Green (born June 2, 1968), better known by his stage name Beetlejuice (often abbreviated to Beetle or Beet), is a frequent guest on The Howard Stern Show and a member of Stern's Wack Pack. In 2015 the Howard Stern Show named Beetlejuice the greatest Wack Packer of all time. This Is Beetle, also known as The Beetlejuice Song, was sung by Beetlejuice for The Howard Stern Show in late 2004. The song was recorded by Stern show producer Richard Christy, who then wrote music to accompany Beetle's raw vocals and engineered it into the full song. The key lyrics to the song are .
On the big screen, Beetlejuice has appeared in films like Bubble Boy, Scary Movie 2, and Girls Gone Dead. In addition to The Howard Stern Show, he also appeared in TV shows such as This is Beetle, Doggy Fizzle Televizzle and WCW Monday Nitro. 1  Facebook. Standing four feet and three inches tall, Beetlejuice suffers from microcephaly, a condition where a person is small, but proportional. In 2002, he appeared in the “Grimey” music video. This was followed by his appearance in the three tracks of the debut album of Smut Peddlers, The Porn.
Advertisement. Lester Napoleon Green (born June 2 1968) better known by his stage name Beetlejuice (often abbreviated to Beetle or Beet) is a frequent guest on The Howard Stern Show and a member of Stern's Wack Pack. He has appeared in feature films as well as performed voice-over work. However, the numbers vary depending on the source. If you have current knowledge about Beetlejuice's net worth, please feel free to share the information below. Beetlejuice's net worth is estimated to be in the range of approximately $743411240 in 2015, according to the users of vipfaq.
Howard Stern Net Worth: Howard Stern is an American radio and television personality who has a net worth of $580 million and annual salary of $95 million. A film adaptation of the biographical Private Parts, with Howard Stern playing himself in the title role, was released on March 7, 1997 and topped the box office in its opening weekend with a gross of $14.6 million. Private Parts sold a total of $41.2 million in movie tickets. Stern continues to work for Sirius and is currently the highest-paid radio figure in the United States. He also earns $15 million per year as a judge on the hit NBC reality show America's Got Talent. Howard Stern Net Worth. 1  Howard Stern Loses $300 Million Lawsuit
$200 Thousand. Beetlejuice Net Worth: Beetlejuice is an American comedian and actor who has a net worth of $200 thousand. Beetlejuice was born in Jersey City, New Jersey in June 1968. He is best known as being a frequent guest on The Howard Stern Show and is a member of Stern's Wack Pack. Beetle's uncle worked as a circus freak and made $200,000 a year and tried to recruit Juice to join the Ringling Brothers circus. Beetlejuice is a dwarf and stands at 4'3″.
Support Beetlejuice. Lester Napoleon Green (born June 2, 1968 according to Beetlejuice: May 33, 1929), better known by this stage name Beetlejuice (often abbreviated to Beetle or Beet), is a frequent guest on The Howard Stern Show and a member of Stern's Wack Pack. The Howard 100 News Team also reported that they had contacted Beetlejuice, who was aware of his approaching birthday, but claimed that he was turning 34 years old and was born in 1936! On a 2005 broadcast of the Stern Show, Beetlejuice was booked as an in-studio guest alongside Gilbert Gottfried.
About Beetlejuice. Beetlejuice is an American TV personality known for his frequent guest appearances in The Howard Stern Show. In addition to that, he has been a part of several feature films, and has done voice-over works. Standing four feet and three inches tall, Beetlejuice suffers from microcephaly, a condition where a person is small, but proportional. In 2002, he appeared in the “Grimey” music video. This was followed by his appearance in the three tracks of the debut album of Smut Peddlers, The Porn.