Adorable animal families that will make you aww. Chyawanprash is a jelly-like spread made from the pulp of apricots, grapes and other fruits high in antioxidants. Indian herbs like gooseberry are also part of the concoction; so are stems, seeds, and roots from plants native to Asia. Some formulas combine as many as 40 to 50 botanicals. Indian ingredients like bala, pippali, and mustak comprise most varieties of chyawanprash. Bala is a plant that is credited for increasing the body’s metabolism, resulting in more vigor and leaner body structure.
4, 2 Chyawanprash can be taken on a long-term basis as part of a program designed to support overall strength and immunity, even supporting the natural systems of the body after a bout of stress or illness. For others, it is more appropriately used seasonally, as a tonic in the winter months. When purchasing chyawanprash, there are a number of questions to consider that will help you to evaluate the quality of the herbal ingredients, the values upheld by the company that produced the jam, and the price of the product in relation to its quality.
Chyawanprash (also spelled chyavanaprasha, chyavanaprash, chyavanaprasam and chyawanaprash) is a jam-like cooked mixture of sugar, honey, Triphala, ghee, sesame oil, berries and other herbs and spices. 
Chyawanprash is a reservoir of benefits. There are distinct ways of defining Chyavanprash such as energy booster, rejuvenator, health tonic and many more. It offers a multitude of health benefits for which it has become so popular in India. 
Chyawanprash is a delicious nutritive jam that has been used in Ayurveda for thousands of years, offering a wide range of health benefits. In Sanskrit, the word, ‘prash’ refers to a specially prepared food. When purchasing chyawanprash, there are a number of questions to consider that will help you to evaluate the quality of the herbal ingredients, the values upheld by the company that produced the jam, and the price of the product in relation to its quality.
Chyavanprash, organic, 250 g. This product is the first Chyawanprash to be offered in the West that contains only certified organic herbs. The daily recommended dosage for adults is 1-2 teaspoons. Chyawanprash is the most famous tonic jam from India. It is an excellent antioxidant, and it kindles digestive fire without aggravating the pitta dosha. 
Chyawanprash – one herbal medicine, many health benefits. Chyawanprash is one of the anti aging supplements, which is purely herbal in nature. It has Amla as its main ingredient, which is a powerful antioxidant. Acharya Charaka is the first to mention this herbal medicine. In the making of chyawanprash, it is boiled with many herbs decoction, then it is de-seeded, pulp is fried in ghee and again heated with other ingredients to end up in the form of Chyawanprash. By this time, the taste of it is almost changed to astringent. 2.
Various Popular Brands of Chyawanprash. Chyawanprash is a comprehensive herbal tonic with multiple health benefits, prepared according to an ancient Ayurvedic formula. Used by people around the world today, and especially in India, it is a proven energizer, immunity booster and pre-emptive tonic. 
Chyavanprash, organic, 250 g. This product is the first Chyawanprash to be offered in the West that contains only certified organic herbs. The daily recommended dosage for adults is 1-2 teaspoons. Chyawanprash is the most famous tonic jam from India. It is an excellent antioxidant, and it kindles digestive fire without aggravating the pitta dosha. As such, it is considered tridoshic and suitable for use by anyone.
Disclaimer: Please note that we do not endorse any brand of chyawanprash. Chyawanprash (CP) is regarded as an excellent health tonic in every Indian household. Formulated with 20-40 Ayurvedic ingredients having different medicinal properties, chyawanprash has been linked to several health benefits. 1# Improves your immunity: The main ingredient used in the preparation of Chyawanprash is Amla, which is an extremely rich source of Vitamin C that helps in boosting immunity