The World's most comprehensive professionally edited abbreviations and acronyms database. All trademarks/service marks referenced on this site are properties of their respective owners. The Acronym Finder is ©1988-2015, Acronym Finder, All Rights Reserved. 
SGOT: Serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase, an enzyme that is normally present in liver and heart cells. SGOT is released into blood when the liver or heart is damaged. The blood SGOT levels are thus elevated with liver damage (for example, from viral hepatitis) or with an insult to the heart (for example, from a heart attack). Some medications can also raise SGOT levels. SGOT is also called aspartate aminotransferase (AST)
Usage: Although since can be used as a synonym of ago in certain contexts, the use of ago and since together, as in it's ten years ago since he wrote that novel, is redundant. Instead, it would be correct to use it is ten years since he wrote that novel, or it is ten years ago that he wrote that novel. a·go. adv. & adj. 1. Gone by; past: two years ago. 2. In the past: It happened ages ago. [Middle English, past participle of. , to go away, from Old English. :
Her end of yea Alternatively, you and your evaluator may decide that a Specific SGO is more appropriate for your situation, as outlined in the next section. Example 2: An 11 th-grade life science teacher teaches three sections of biology and two of anatomy and physiology. She sets one General SGO for all of her biology students and one General SGO for all of her anatomy and physiology students. Please visit the SGO Section of the AchieveNJ website for updates to this resource and to access individual forms found in the Appendix. 1.1 Measures of Student Growth With the signing of the TEACHNJ Act, 2 the evaluation of teachers in New Jersey must include multiple measures of student growth.
1. in the way or manner indicated: Do it so. 2. in that or this manner or fashion; thus: So it turned out. 3. in the aforesaid state or condition: It is broken and has long been so. 4. to the extent or degree indicated or suggested: Do not walk so fast. The change was so gradual that nobody noticed it. This can be such a gradual process that you are not aware of it. You can use so, and so, or so that to introduce the result of a situation that you have just mentioned.
Example 1: studentsteach the students up to May 1, the week before the final assessment In some cases, perhaps because you have multiple levels or types of classes, setting one General SGO for all students will be impractical. In this case, you will set two General SGOs, as in Example 2 that follows. Please visit the SGO Section of the AchieveNJ website for updates to this resource and to access individual forms found in the Appendix. 1.1 Measures of Student Growth With the signing of the TEACHNJ Act, 2 the evaluation of teachers in New Jersey must include multiple measures of student growth.
4 3 2 1 90% or more students met goal 80% or more students met goal 70% or more students met the goal Less than 70% of students met goal Some teachers may identify a specific standard in their curriculum that all their students have a weakness in, or that they deem particularly important for students to know. Includes large proportion of curriculum standards. Covers all students in a teacher’s Algebra I classes and aligned comprehensively with course standards. General-tiered goal Same as above, but with student goals tiered by preparation levels Same as above, but with student goals tiered by preparation levels.
SGOT. n. Serum glutamic aminotransferase; an enzyme that catalyzes the transfer of the amino group from glutamic acid to oxaloacetic acid forming alpha-ketoglutaric acid and aspartic acid, used to measure liver function. Also called aspartate transaminase, AST, GOT, glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase
4 Basic Steps to Creating an SGO In setting SGOs, teachers should take the following steps: 1. Choose or develop a quality measurement tool (examples follow) that is aligned to applicable standards. 2. Determine students’ starting points based in available data. Includes large proportion of curriculum standards. Covers all students in a teacher’s Algebra I classes and aligned comprehensively with course standards. General-tiered goal Same as above, but with student goals tiered by preparation levels Same as above, but with student goals tiered by preparation levels.