The lion capital of the Ashoka pillar at Sarnath in Uttar Pradesh is probably the most ubiquitous symbol in India. Being India’s national emblem, it adorns the nation’s currency notes and coins, government documents and even the cover of the Indian passport. 
Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday defined FDI as he sees it. For Indians FDI is First Develop India...for foreigners, it is an opportunity, the PM said to an audience of CEOs that packed Delhi's Vigyan Bhawan, where Mr Modi launched his ambitious Make in India campaign. 'This is the Step of a Lion': PM Modi on his Make-in-India Campaign. NDTV | Last Updated: September 26, 2014 00:13 (IST). Tweet. Prime Minister Narendra Modi holds up a brochure of
The National Symbol of India comes from the Sarnath Lion Capital of Emperor Ashoka. Ashoka ruled the land from 272 BCE to 232 BCE. The original sculpture shows four lions on a pillar with an elephant, horse, bull, and lion separated by a lotus on the base. 
Humans. The lion is a magnificent animal that appears as a symbol of power, courage and nobility on family crests, coats of arms and national flags in many civilizations. Lions at one time were found from Greece through the Middle East to northern India, but today only a very small population remains in India
The emblem of India is an adaptation of the Lion Capital of Ashoka at Sarnath, preserved in the Varansi Sarnath Museum in India. The actual Sarnath capital including four Asiatic lions standing back to back-symbolizing power, courage, pride, and confidence-mounted on a circular base. 
On Monday, none of than PM himself explained at Germany’s Hannover Messe, one of the biggest industrial fairs in the globe, why his government chose a lion to depict the Make in India campaign. India’s journey to emerge as a global manufacturing hub is unstoppable, very similar to that of a walking lion. He said, the symbol of lion for Make in India was chosen “very carefully”. “We know that our biggest need today is to create jobs for our 65% population which is young. Hence, Make in India is the need. Hence the lion, because a lion cannot be stopped. We are confident that our journey to make India a global manufacturing hub cannot be stopped that too by our own rules and regulations
And finally, when a walking lion was chosen to depict the Make in India campaign, the gossip was that it was invariably from Gujarat's Gir forest, the only habitat of lions in India. For the record, Narendra Modi was the chief minister of Gujarat for about 13 years before becoming the Indian prime minister. India’s journey to emerge as a global manufacturing hub is unstoppable, very similar to that of a walking lion. He said, the symbol of lion for Make in India was chosen “very carefully”. “We know that our biggest need today is to create jobs for our 65% population which is young. Hence, Make in India is the need. Hence the lion, because a lion cannot be stopped. We are confident that our journey to make India a global manufacturing hub cannot be stopped that too by our own rules and regulations
COMMENTS. The logo for Prime Minister Narendra Modi's Make-in-India campaign. New Delhi: Make-in-India is a lion's step, said Prime Minister Narendra Modi today, after launching the logo of his ambitious campaign to attract companies to India. The logo is the silhouette of a lion on the prowl, made entirely of cogs, symbolising manufacturing, strength and national pride. The national emblem, Ashok Chakra, also has four lions. In Indian folklore, the lion denotes the attainment of enlightenment, besides representing power, courage, pride and confidence.