191 Followers. A. The normal range of values for AST (SGOT) is from 5 to 40 units per liter of serum (the liquid part of the blood). The normal range of values for ALT (SGPT) is from 7 to 56 units per liter of serum. This answer should not be considered medical advice... 
Levels of AST may also be markedly elevated (often over 100 times normal) as a result of exposure to drugs or other substances that are toxic to the liver as well as in conditions that cause decreased blood flow (ischemia) to the liver. With heart or muscle injury, AST is often much higher than ALT (often 3-5 times as high) and levels tend to stay higher than ALT for longer than with liver injury. AST is often performed together with the ALT test or as part of a liver panel.
^ Back to top. Normally, levels of AST in the blood are low. Very high levels of AST (more than 10 times normal) are usually due to acute hepatitis, sometimes due to a viral infection. With acute hepatitis, AST levels usually stay high for about 1-2 months but can take as long as 3-6 months to return to normal. With heart or muscle injury, AST is often much higher than ALT (often 3-5 times as high) and levels tend to stay higher than ALT for longer than with liver injury. AST is often performed together with the ALT test or as part of a liver panel.
High values. High levels of AST may be caused by: 1  Liver damage from conditions such as hepatitis or cirrhosis. 2  A heart attack or heart failure. 3  Many medicines, such as statins, antibiotics, chemotherapy, aspirin, narcotics, and barbiturates. 4  High doses of vitamin A. 5  Kidney or lung damage. 6  Mononucleosis. 
1 The normal range of values for AST (SGOT) is about 5 to 40 units per liter of serum (the liquid part of the blood). 2  The normal range of values for ALT (SGPT) is about 7 to 56 units per liter of serum. 1 Read 68 Stories. 2  Share Your Story. 3  The normal range of values for AST (SGOT) is about 5 to 40 units per liter of serum (the liquid part of the blood). 4  The normal range of values for ALT (SGPT) is about 7 to 56 units per liter of serum.
With chronic hepatitis, AST levels are usually not as high, often less than 4 times normal, and are more likely to be normal than are ALT levels. AST often varies between normal and slightly increased with chronic hepatitis, so the test may be ordered frequently to determine the pattern. With heart or muscle injury, AST is often much higher than ALT (often 3-5 times as high) and levels tend to stay higher than ALT for longer than with liver injury. AST is often performed together with the ALT test or as part of a liver panel.
Normal levels of AST and ALT may slightly vary depending on the individual laboratory's reference values. Typically the range for normal AST is reported between 10 to 40 units per liter and ALT between 7 to 56 units per liter. Mild elevations are generally considered to be 2-3 times higher than the normal range.
Elevated AST. Normal serum AST is 14- 20 IU per liter in men and 10- 36 IU per liter in women. When a blood test for AST indicates elevation above normal range, the indication is that damage may be present to one of the organs where AST is normally found. 