Professor Hubert J. Farnsworth is an aged, eccentric, yet accomplished inventor, founder and owner of Planet Express and an honorary Globetrotter. He is crotchety, absent-minded and sometimes brilliant, most well-known for his work in 30th century robotics. In 2999, he was the last known relative of Philip J. Fry. 1 However, in the storyboard for  Space Pilot 3000 , the Professor is the descendant of Fry's sister and a man named Eddie Farnsworth. 2  Both Fry's sister and Eddie Farnsworth were later erased from the episode and the show. 3  In an episode of Phineas & Ferb, a character's full name includes Hubert
Billy West. Billy West has had a long, successful career as a voice-over actor. He is the voice of a variety of characters on Futurama. Mostly he plays Fry, the pizza delivery boy who wound up frozen, but he is also the voice of Professor Farnsworth, Dr. Zoidberg, Zapp Brannigan and even President Richard Nixon's head.
Cubert J. Farnsworth is a clone of Professor Hubert J. Farnsworth, and is often referred to as his son. He is heir to Planet Express and the Professor's fortune, being, along with the Professor's parents, one of the Professor's closest living relatives. 
He has done hundreds of voice-overs in his career such as Ren Hoeek (höek season 3 and) onward And (Stimpson) Stimpy. J cat On The & Ren Stimpy; Show Doug, Funnie, porkchop And Roger klotz On; Doug Philip. J, Fry Professor, Farnsworth. Dr, Zoidberg Zapp, brannigan and a number of others On. futurama West voiced the Speed Racer character in a late-1990s advertisement for Volkswagen, because the commercial's producers could not locate Peter Fernandez, the original voice of Speed.
For the voice of the doddering old Professor Hubert Farnsworth, voice actor Billy West channeled a forgetful, eccentric wizard. Tags: exclusives, senior citizens, science, Professor Farnsworth, mental health, Billy West, animation. 
Billy West, the voice actor of Futurama's Fry, Farnsworth, Zoidberg, and Zapp. 1  Comedy. 2  Standard YouTube License. Billy West, the voice actor of Futurama's Fry, Farnsworth, Zoidberg, and Zapp. Category. License.
With Fry, Farnsworth and Zoidberg, Billy does a total of 3 main characters on Futurama. He describes Fry's voice as the 25 year old Billy. The role of Zapp Brannigan was offered to him after fellow voice artist and original cast Phil Hartman died in 1998. 
Professor Hubert J. Farnsworth, or simply Professor, is a fictional character in the American animated television series Futurama. Farnsworth is the mad scientist proprietor of the Planet Express delivery service, for whom the main characters work. He is the great (×30) nephew of Philip J. Fry, the series' protagonist.