Like with a new driver’s license, when renewing for your license online or by mail you would have to wait for 30 days before you are given your new permanent driver’s license. A temporary license would be provided. Renew by Mail. To renew a driver’s license in Colorado via mail:
1 Allow up to 30 business days for delivery of your permanent document. 2  When you renew your license or ID card you may update your address on file with the DMV. 3  You cannot use this application to renew a Commercial Driver's License online.
1 When you renew your license or ID card you may update your address on file with the DMV. 2  You cannot use this application to renew a Commercial Driver's License online. 3  If you are a male between the ages of 18-25, you will automatically be registered for selective service.
1 Your current address does not appear on you license. 2  Visit the DMV website for a complete list of accepted documents. 3  Provide payment for the $25 driver's license fee. 4  See “ Fees to Renew Your Colorado Driver's License  below. 5  Pass a vision test.
1 You will not be issued a temporary document. 2  Allow up to 30 business days for delivery of your permanent document. 3  When you renew your license or ID card you may update your address on file with the DMV.
If you're eligible to renew your driver's license online, you'll need to: 1  Use the Colorado DMV online renewal system. 2  Have your Colorado driver's license on hand. 3  Make payment with VISA, MasterCard, or American Express. 4  You will be subject to an administrative processing fee.
If you're eligible to renew your driver's license online, you'll need to: 1  Use the Colorado DMV online renewal system. 2  Have your Colorado driver's license on hand. 3  Make payment with VISA, MasterCard, or American Express. ( 4 See “ Fees to Renew Your CO Driver's License  below.
Once you've successfully taken the steps to apply for your new driver's license, the DMV will issue you a temporary Colorado driver's license. Your permanent license will be mailed to you within 30 business days. 1  If you are a minor (under 21 years old), your license will expire 20 days after your 21st birthday. 2  Adult licenses expire on the driver's birthday. 3  The renew date will depend on the issuance date.