The west coast of South America is a convergent boundary between the Nazca plate and the South American plate. The collision of this oceanic and continental plate was how the Andes mountains were formed. Convergent boundaries can also form islands. The northern part of the Pacific Plate is subducting under the North American Plate, and the result is the formation of the Aleutian Islands.
The Cascade Mountain Range is a line of volcanoes above the melting oceanic plate. The Andes Mountain Range of western South America is another example of a convergent boundary between an oceanic and continental plate. Effects that are found at this type of plate boundary include: a zone of progressively deeper earthquakes, an oceanic trench, a chain of volcanic islands, and the destruction of oceanic lithosphere.
As with oceanic-continental convergence, when two oceanic plates converge, one is usually subducted under the other, and in the process a trench is formed. The Marianas Trench (paralleling the Mariana Islands), for example, marks where the fast-moving Pacific Plate converges against the slower moving Philippine Plate. Subduction processes in oceanic-oceanic plate convergence also result in the formation of volcanoes. Over millions of years, the erupted lava and volcanic debris pile up on the ocean floor until a submarine volcano rises above sea level to form an island volcano.
In a subduction zone, the subducting plate, which is normally a plate with oceanic crust, moves beneath the other plate, which can be made of either oceanic or continental crust. During collisions between two continental plates, large mountain ranges, such as the Himalayas are formed. Oceanic-continental. As a result of pressure, friction, and plate material melting in the mantle, earthquakes and volcanoes are common near convergent boundaries. When two plates move towards one another, they form either a subduction zone or a continental collision. This depends on the nature of the plates involved.
A subduction zone is formed at a convergent plate boundary when one or both of the tectonic plates is composed of oceanic crust. The denser plate, made of oceanic crust, is subducted underneath the less dense plate, which can be either continental or oceanic crust. As a result of pressure, friction, and plate material melting in the mantle, earthquakes and volcanoes are common near convergent boundaries. When two plates move towards one another, they form either a subduction zone or a continental collision. This depends on the nature of the plates involved.
When a convergent boundary occurs between two oceanic plates one of those plates will subduct beneath the other. Normally the older plate will subduct because of its higher density. The subducting plate is heated as it is forced deeper into the mantle and at a depth of about 100 miles (150 km) the plate begins to melt. Effects that are found at this type of plate boundary include: a zone of progressively deeper earthquakes, an oceanic trench, a chain of volcanic islands, and the destruction of oceanic lithosphere.
If one of the colliding plates is topped with oceanic crust, it is forced down into the mantle where it begins to melt. Magma rises into and through the other plate, solidifying into new crust. Magma formed from melting plates solidifies into granite, a light colored, low-density rock that makes up the continents. Thus at convergent boundaries, continental crust, made of granite, is created, and oceanic crust is destroyed. Two plates sliding past each other forms a transform plate boundary. Natural or human-made structures that cross a transform boundary are offset—split into pieces and carried in opposite directions
Oceanic-Oceanic Plate Convergence. This is similar to oceanic-continental convergence in that one of the plates is subducted under the other during the collision. At the subduction zone a very deep trench is formed in the ocean floor. Oceanic and oceanic plate convergence result in the formation of volcano chains. The crust that is pulled under or subducted melts to form magma. This magma rises to the top of the overriding oceanic plates and erupts on the ocean floor. When an oceanic plate collides with a continental plate the crust forming the oceanic plate gets bent and pulled under the continental crust. This is because the rocks that form the oceanic crust are denser and thinner than the rocks that form
When one oceanic and one continental plate meet, the denser oceanic plate subducts under the less dense continental plate. This forms a trench on the oceanic side, and volcanoes and mountains on the continental side. When two continental plates meet, they can form the biggest mountains in the world, like the Himalayas. The collision of this oceanic and continental plate was how the Andes mountains were formed. Convergent boundaries can also form islands. The northern part of the Pacific Plate is subducting under the North American Plate, and the result is the formation of the Aleutian Islands.