As of 2012, the average annual salary for mayors is $62,000; average annual mayor salaries vary greatly on location, district, education, experience, and benefits (2). A career as a mayor is a great choice for individuals with a strong interest in managing the overall operations of a city or town.
In some cities, that management and authority come directly -- and indirectly -- from the mayor. Depending on the size and power structure set up by a city's charter or statutory laws, a mayor can play either an important or a minor role in a city's development and future.
In Iowa, Des Moines' mayor earns $31,500 and the mayor of Cedar Rapids has an annual salary of $32,266. The mayor of Stratford, Conn., with a population of 51,000, earns $90,000 annually. In Centennial, Colo., the mayor's salary is only $850 per month.
Laguna Hills has emerged as a flashpoint in the debate. Medical benefits triple the total compensation of council members, who earn $7,400 in salary. Mayor Allan Songstad Jr., a partner in an Irvine-based law firm, said he does not consider his medical benefits an extravagance. We are really not paid much and we spend a lot of time doing council work, he said.
The mayor in the other kind of mayor-council city government, the ‘weak’ mayor, has more limited powers of appointment, removal and veto, and the elected officials and boards are more numerous. The council’s more extensive legal powers preclude his being a chief executive in any truly meaningful sense.
The council is the legislature, and the mayor appoints officers. In a village, there is, usually, a board of trustees with five elected members, one of whom has mayoral powers. Mayors of the largest US cities (Readers are invited to supply information on additional US cities and mayors.
Many cities still have mayors, even if their duties have more to do with public relations than with the city's administration. On the next few pages, we'll take a look at some of the responsibilities mayors can have, how they are elected and who works under them.
To handle retirement benefits for tens of thousands of elected officials serving as mayors, commissioners, county, city and township officials, nonprofit organizations set up by state governments usually centralize the administration and distribution of employee benefits.
Mayoral Benefits and Terms. Mayoral benefits often include a city-provided vehicle, health insurance and retirement. These are commonly for mayors who work full-time in large and mid-size cities. In cities like Stratford, Conn., fuel is also provided to the mayor for any city-related business.