You can, but it won't work. The glues only work for their specific pipes. ANS 2 - PVC glue will only hold ABS in limited conditions, and can be broken apart easily. -There is … a 'Transition cement ' made by Oatey, but yellow ABS glue is still the best for ABS piping. PVC is polyvinyl chloride. this is a plastic which is in the formula of CH2=CHCL   = is a double bond.   PVC is a thermoplastic material meaning can be melted over and over again. meaning after heating they will harden upon cooling.
PVA is part of the vinyl family of plastics, but most things we think of as vinyl, such as vinyl siding and upholstery, LP records, raincoats, etc., are made of polyvinyl chloride, or PVC, the same material used to make white plumbing pipe. Horse. Source(s): http://wiki.answers.com/Q/What_is_glue_m... Horsehide glue (what I consider glue to be) is made from cow's hooves, bones, and hides since there aren't enough horses getting rendered anymore, and the hides and hooves provide much the same and are useful other places besides in landfills.
The Oatey 8 oz. PVC Cement is specially formulated to bond PVC pipe and fittings up to 6 in. Dia with interference fit. The solvent cement works by softening pipe and fitting surfaces to create a strong bond. Includes a dauber stem for easy application
Polyvinyl chloride, more correctly but unusually poly(vinyl chloride), commonly abbreviated PVC, is the third-most widely produced synthetic plastic polymer, after polyethylene and polypropylene. PVC comes in two basic forms: rigid (sometimes abbreviated as RPVC) and flexible. The rigid form of PVC is used in construction for pipe and in profile applications such as doors and windows. It is also used for bottles, other non-food packaging, and cards (such as bank or membership cards). Roughly half of the world's polyvinyl chloride resin manufactured annually is used for producing pipes for municipal and industrial applications. In the water distribution market it accounts for 66% of the market in the US, and in sanitary sewer pipe applications, it accounts for 75%.
Most PVC glues are rated for 40 - 110F. Weld On 725 is recommended for use in colder weather. You can use standard PVC Glue but it will take 2-3 times as long to cure before … you can pressure test it. The colder it is, the longer the curing time. PVC is polyvinyl chloride. this is a plastic which is in the formula of CH2=CHCL   = is a double bond.   PVC is a thermoplastic material meaning can be melted over and over again. meaning after heating they will harden upon cooling.
Top 10 facts about the world. Polyvinyl chloride (PVC) pipe is made from a plastic and vinyl combination material. The pipes are durable, hard to damage, and long lasting. They do not rust, rot, or wear over time. For that reason, PVC piping is most commonly used in water systems, underground wiring, and sewer lines. 
PVA is part of the vinyl family of plastics, but most things we think of as vinyl, such as vinyl siding and upholstery, LP records, raincoats, etc., are made of polyvinyl chloride, or PVC, the same material used to make white plumbing pipe.. Source(s): http://wiki.answers.com/Q/What_is_glue_m... Horsehide glue (what I consider glue to be) is made from cow's hooves, bones, and hides since there aren't enough horses getting rendered anymore, and the hides and hooves provide much the same and are useful other places besides in landfills.
We don’t really call it glue, but solvent-cement. None of the plumbing cements are interchangeable, each one is specific for its pipe. Each pipe is joined with its own cement. One exception is transition cement, used to weld ABS pipe and PVC pipe together. This transition cement is green in color so it's easy to recognize. The other exception is all-purpose cement which can be used to join any of the three pipes to each other. All other uses of PVC, like irrigation, require primer regardless of the cement used. CPVC and ABS pipes don't require a primer. According to the folks at Oatey, CPVC cement may be used without primer where local codes permit. This tells me that the priming of CPVC is not necessary.
No, CPVC and Schedule 80 PVC are different. Schedule 80 just refers to the thickness of the PVC pipe, and you can have schedule 80 CPVC as well. CPVC differs from PVC in chemical makeup and in how it should be used. For instance, CPVC can withstand temperatures of up to 200 degrees F while PVC is best used for temperatures below about 140F.