Her claim that the presence of any of the five faces of oppression would be “sufficient” to call a given group oppressed seems to me to be a problem, and to have implications that Young would be unhappy with. But the claim seems to moreover be at odds with her methodology. However, when we examine the case for pseudo-oppression, the first problem that arises is that the term is in systematic use by both groups. And both uses of the term oppression appear to be captured using the five faces of oppression.
Cultural imperialism, however, seems to me to be more deeply rooted and unrecognized than the others. The five faces of oppression describe how groups are treated in relation to other groups or to society, but they all stem from first defining a group. Young suggests that oppression is a condition of groups. By this, she means that defining groups labels one group as different from the other. I recognize the effects of all five faces of oppression in society, some more so than others. Particularly, though, I was able to agree with her description of cultural imperialism.
I encourage readers to take a look at Iris Marion Young’s framework -- the 'Five Faces of Oppression -- as a way of exploring these intersections. GPP has adopted Young's framework in our series of writings and workshops on democracy, difference and oppression (which you can find under ‘Democracy and Difference’ on this site). Here’s a condensed summary of the ‘five faces,’ as we describe them in our workshop materials.
According to Iris Marion Young, there are five “faces” or types of oppression: violence, exploitation, marginalization, powerlessness, and cultural imperialism. Exploitation is the act of using people’s labors to produce profit while not compensating them fairly. People who work in sweat shops are exploited. Oppression can be the result of a few people’s choices or policies that cause embedded unquestioned norms, habits, and symbols. These societal rules can become an restrictive structure of forces and barriers that immobilize and reduce a group or category of people.
If the five faces of oppression can be interpreted to include pseudo-oppression under the rubric of oppression, then, by her own standards, Young’s five faces account is allowing too much. 3 I don’t mean to take a stance here on the empirical validity of the claim that English is marginalized in Quebec or Wales. However, when we examine the case for pseudo-oppression, the first problem that arises is that the term is in systematic use by both groups. And both uses of the term oppression appear to be captured using the five faces of oppression.
People are not always oppressed by cruel tyrants with bad intentions. In many cases, a well-intentioned liberal society can place system-wide constraints on groups and limit their freedom. Oppression can be the result of a few people’s choices or policies that cause embedded unquestioned norms, habits, and symbols. These societal rules can become an restrictive structure of forces and barriers that immobilize and reduce a group or category of people.
She argues that oppression is not always a case of one group oppressing another but has now come to include the exercise of power by society over certain groups unintentionally. She uses five categories to describe oppression on any group: exploitation, marginalization, powerlessness, cultural imperialism, and violence. I recognize the effects of all five faces of oppression in society, some more so than others. Particularly, though, I was able to agree with her description of cultural imperialism.
Five Faces of Oppression Exploitation Exploitation is the act of using people's labors to produce profit while not compensating them fairly. People who work in sweat shops are exploited. They are dehumanized and taught to believe the negative perceptions as fact which then becomes part of the oppressed person's own beliefs. This information is adapted from Five Faces of Oppression, a chapter in Oppression, Privilege, and Resistance by Iris Young.
sETTing uP ThE aCTiviTy Present an overview of Young’s article “The Five Faces of Oppression” (Chapter 1, #6) and emphasize that this is one of several different conceptual organizers that focus on different aspects of oppression. 