Before determining the interquartile range, we first need to know the values of the first quartile and third quartile. (Of course the first and third quartiles depend upon the value of the median). Once we have determined the values of the first and third quartiles, the interquartile range is very easy to calculate. The primary advantage of using the interquartile range rather than the range for the measurement of the spread of a data set is that the interquartile range is not sensitive to outliers. To see this, we will look at an exampl
The Range The range of a set of data is the difference between its largest (maximum) and smallest (minimum) values. Advantages & disadvantages of the Range Advantages:- Easy to compute.- Easy to understand.- Scores exist in the data set. Disadvantages: - Value depends only on two scores. Advantages and Disadvantages of the variance Advantages:- Takes all data into account.- Lends itself to computation of other stable measures (and is a prerequisite for many of them)Disadvantages:- Hard to interpret.- Unit is squared-Can be influenced by extreme scores.
Interquartile range. The interquartile range is another range used as a measure of the spread. The difference between upper and lower quartiles (Q 3 –Q 1), which is called the interquartile range, also indicates the dispersion of a data set. The interquartile range spans 50% of a data set, and eliminates the influence of outliers because, in effect, the highest and lowest quarters are removed. Quartiles. The median divides the data into two equal sets. For more information on the median, refer to the chapter on Measures of central tendency 1  : The lower quartile is the value of the middle of the first set, where 25% of the values are smaller than Q 1 and 75% are larger.
In descriptive statistics, the interquartile range (IQR), also called the midspread or middle fifty, is a measure of statistical dispersion, being equal to the difference between the upper and lower quartiles, IQR = Q 3 − Q 1. 
The range is mostly used as a measure of dispersion with the mode and median. Advantages: Disadvantages: This measure of dispersion is normally used with the median as the measure of central tendency. The range can also be used with the median. The Semi-interquartile Range is a measure of the spread of the middle 50% of the data, i.e. 25% of data below the median and 25% above the median. Having set the data out in order. It ignored the lowest quarter and highest quarter of the data set. 
1,2,2,3,4,6,7 vs. 1,1,1,1,1,1,7. both have R=6. Advantages & disadvantages of the Range. The Interquartile range.  The central portion of the distribution  Away from the extremes  Calculated as the difference between the third quartile (75%) and the first quartile (25%) of observations. Advantages and Disadvantages of the variance Advantages:- Takes all data into account.- Lends itself to computation of other stable measures (and is a prerequisite for many of them)Disadvantages:- Hard to interpret.- Unit is squared-Can be influenced by extreme scores.
The semi-quartile range is another measure of spread. It is calculated as one half the difference between the 75th percentile (often called Q 3) and the 25th percentile (Q 1). The formula for semi-quartile range is: (Q 3 –Q 1) ÷ 2. Quartiles. The median divides the data into two equal sets. For more information on the median, refer to the chapter on Measures of central tendency 1  : The lower quartile is the value of the middle of the first set, where 25% of the values are smaller than Q 1 and 75% are larger.