Report Abuse. Found in the reproductive organs the gametes are haploid cells (26 chromosomes as opposed to 46(diploid)) which means that they are sex cells. These gametes fuse with other gametes to create fertilisation. Female Gamete=Egg Male Gamete=Sperm these are found in the reproductive organs. Best Answer: Gametes are reproductive cells. They contain a haploid set of chromosomes (a half set). In animals they are sperm and egg. I'm not sure about plants but I think most contain both male and female parts for reproduction which results in a seed.
Gametes are produced by a type of cell division called meiosis. They are haploid, meaning that they contain only one set of chromosomes. When the haploid male and female gametes unite in a process called fertilization, they form what is called a zygote. The zygote is diploid and contains two sets of chromosomes. Definition: Gametes are reproductive cells (sex cells) that unite during sexual reproduction to form a new cell called a zygote. Male gametes are sperm and female gametes are ova (eggs). In seed bearing plants, p ollen is the male sperm producing gametophyte. Female gametes are contained within the plant ovary.
Gametes are an organism's reproductive cells. They are also referred to as sex cells. Female gametes are called ova or egg cells, and male gametes are called sperm. Gametes are haploid cells, and each cell carries only one copy of each chromosome. These reproductive cells are produced through a type of cell division called meiosi
Split and merge into it. Answer by Sherries1223. Confidence votes 245. The male gametes are located in the pollen of the flower. Hence, the new growth of flowers through the process of pollination. -----------------. In general it is located in the stamen region of the flower. The stamen includes the filament and the anther and when the anther bursts, pollen comes about. 
A gamete is a reproductive cell having the haploid number of chromosomes, especially a mature sperm or egg capable of fusing with a gamete of the opposite sex to produce the f … ertilized egg. The gametes are formed in the gonads, which also have hormonal  functions. A gamete is a mature haploid male or female germ cell  that is able to unite with another of the o … pposite sex in sexual  reproduction to form a zygote.
In species that produce two morphologically distinct types of gametes, and in which each individual produces only one type, a female is any individual that produces the larger type of gamete—called an ovum (or egg)—and a male produces the smaller tadpole-like type—called a sperm. Dissimilarity [edit]. In contrast to a gamete, the diploid somatic cells of an individual contain one copy of the chromosome set from the sperm and one copy of the chromosome set from the egg cell; that is, the cells of the offspring have genes expressing characteristics of both the father and the mother.
Flowering plants have gametes, which are the haploid sex cells. The  sperm (male gamete) are found in the pollen on top of the anther.  The eggs (female gamete) are located … deep in a ovule usually in the  center of the flower. Some flowers self-pollinate and others must  have help from pollinators, such as bees, to get the sperm to the  egg for the production of seeds. The gametes are formed in the gonads, which also have hormonal  functions. A gamete is a mature haploid male or female germ cell  that is able to unite with another of the o … pposite sex in sexual  reproduction to form a zygote.