Welcome to the Lookinland Family page at Surname Finder, a service of Genealogy Today. Our editors have compiled this checklist of genealogical resources, combining links to commercial databases along with user-contributed information and web sites for the Lookinland surname. Discovering the country from which your Lookinland ancestors originated can often yield additional clues for the meaning of the surname. Keep in mind that it was not unusual for a last name to be altered as an ancestor entered a new country.
Mike Lookinland's Profile. Mike Lookinland is currently married to Kelly Wermuth. He has been in one celebrity relationship averaging approximately 28.4 years. His one marriage has lasted 28.4 years so far. Given Name: Michael Paul Lookinland.
An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more. View all Lookinland ancestors in the SSDI. Census records can tell you a lot of little known facts about your Lookinland ancestors, such as occupation. Occupation can tell you about your ancestors social and economic statu
Early life Edit. Mike Lookinland was originally born in Mount Pleasant, Utah as the second of three children born to Paul and Karen Lookinland. He has a younger brother named Todd, who starred in Blue Bird with Elizabeth Taylor and an older sister Theresa. Lookinland grew up in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints Mormon. Interestingly, the first two names of the Brady father character played by Robert Reed was Michael Paul, the same as Lookinland's actual names, also, Mike Lookinland's character was named Bobby (a short form of Robert), the same as Robert Reed's actual name.
Here's the story of how a show started as a typical formulaic sitcom, but grew into a syndicated monster. From the time Greg Brady got high to the reason Cindy Brady started balding, here's a quick rundown of all things Brady you probably didn't know. 1. Maureen McCormick played Marcia, the eldest Brady daughter, and the object of lust of many a teenaged boy during the tenure of The Brady Bunch. What the public didn't know, however, was that Mo always felt inferior to Eve Plumb, who played middle sister Jan. Eve had longer, blonder, more luxurious hair.
Career Edit. By 1968, Mike Lookinland had been a TV commercial actor and had done around thirty commercials. This year, he was offered two roles: as Eddie Corbett on The Courtship of Eddie's Father and Bobby Brady on The Brady Bunch. Interestingly, the first two names of the Brady father character played by Robert Reed was Michael Paul, the same as Lookinland's actual names, also, Mike Lookinland's character was named Bobby (a short form of Robert), the same as Robert Reed's actual name.
Origins of the Lookinland Surname. It is quite possible for two people with the Lookinland last name to have been given that surname for entirely different reasons. Discovering the country from which your Lookinland ancestors originated can often yield additional clues for the meaning of the surname. Keep in mind that it was not unusual for a last name to be altered as an ancestor entered a new country.
The Brady Bunch is an American sitcom created by Sherwood Schwartz that originally aired from September 26, 1969, to March 8, 1974, on ABC. The series revolves around a large blended family with six children. 
Storyline. The marriage of architect Mike Brady and homemaker Carol Martin nee Née tyler will be the second for. Both they have the issue of blending their two already large, Families mike who has three children And carol who has three. children 