The magnitude of the endothelium-dependent contraction to acetylcholine (0.1–10 μM) was similar in aortas from WT mice treated in vitro with l-NAME and from eNOS −/− mice. In addition, we found that acetylcholine (10 μM) also caused endothelium-dependent contraction in carotid and femoral arteries of
In rat blood vessels, endothelium-dependent contraction to acetylcholine is not observed under normal physiological conditions but is observed under pathological conditions, for example, hypertension and diabetes (4, 15, 17, 21, 24, 28, 32).
Endothelin (ET-1) is a 21 amino acid peptide that is produced by the vascular endothelium from a 39 amino acid precursor, big ET-1, through the actions of an endothelin converting enzyme (ECE) found on the endothelial cell membrane.
“Endothelial cell contraction leads to intercellular gaps in venules. This is the most common form of increased vascular permeability, endothelial cell contraction is a reversible process elicited by histamine, bradykinin, leukotrienes and many other classes of chemical mediators.
The contraction of brain microvessel endothelial cells, observed on the action of a number of thrombogenic and fibrinolytic factors, is a phenomenon to be considered as a possible factor in focal opening of the BBB in cases of brain thrombosis and fibrinolysis.
Email. Print. The endothelium is a thin membrane that lines the inside of the heart and blood vessels. Endothelial cells release substances that control vascular relaxation and contraction as well as enzymes that control blood clotting, immune function and platelet (a colorless substance in the blood) adhesion.
This did not result from injury to the smooth muscle cells because contractions to K + (60 mM) were not reduced by the procedure (Fig. 3). These results indicate that the contraction to acetylcholine is mediated by the endothelium rather than by a direct action of the agonist on vascular smooth muscle.
Heparin at 2 U/mL and 0.2 U/mL concentrations induced endothelial cell contraction after 40 to 50 minutes of treatment, whereas a lower concentration of heparin (0.02 U/mL) did not affect the ratio of cell perimeter to surface area. Protamine sulfate induced endothelial cell contraction in the initial 30 minutes.