The mesosphere is a layer of Earth's atmosphere. The mesosphere is above the stratosphere layer. The layer above the mesosphere is called the thermosphere. The mesosphere starts at 50 km (31 miles) above Earth's surface and goes up to 85 km (53 miles) high. As you get higher up in the mesosphere, the temperature gets colder. The top of the mesosphere is the coldest part
This picture explains about the mesosphere. The mesosphere is a layer of Earth's atmosphere. It starts about 50 km (31 miles) above the ground and goes all the way up to 85 km (53 miles) high. The layer below it is called the stratosphere. The layer above it is the thermosphere. The mesosphere is above the stratosphere layer. The layer above the mesosphere is called the thermosphere. The mesosphere starts at 50 km (31 miles) above Earth's surface and goes
The mesosphere (/ˈmɛsoʊsfɪər/ ; from Greek mesos middle and sphaira ball) is the layer of the Earth's atmosphere that is directly above the stratopause and directly below the mesopause. In the mesosphere temperature decreases as the altitude increases. The upper boundary of the mesosphere is the mesopause, which can be the coldest naturally occurring place on Earth with temperatures below 130 K (−226 °F; −143 °C).
Credit: Randy Russell, UCAR. The mesosphere is a layer of Earth's atmosphere. The mesosphere is directly above the stratosphere and below the thermosphere. It extends from about 50 to 85 km (31 to 53 miles) above our planet. Temperature decreases with height throughout the mesosphere. The coldest temperatures in Earth's atmosphere, about -90° C (-130° F), are found near the top of this layer. The boundary between the mesosphere and the thermosphere above it is called the mesopause. At the bottom of the mesosphere is the stratopause, the boundary between the mesosphere and the stratosphere below. The mesosphere is difficult to study, so less is known about this layer of the atmosphere than other layers.
The stratosphere, mesosphere and lowest part of the thermosphere are collectively referred to as the middle atmosphere, which spans heights from approximately 10 kilometres (33,000 ft) to 100 kilometres (62 mi). In the mesosphere temperature decreases as the altitude increases. The upper boundary of the mesosphere is the mesopause, which can be the coldest naturally occurring place on Earth with temperatures below 130 K (−226 °F; −143 °C).
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The mesosphere refers to the mantle in the region under the lithosphere and the asthenosphere, but above the outer core. The upper boundary is defined as the sharp increase in seismic wave velocities and density at a depth of 660 kilometers (410 mi). 
The mesosphere is the layer of the Earth's atmosphere that is directly above the stratosphere and directly below the thermosphere. In the mesosphere temperature decreases with increasing height. 
mes·o·sphere. The layer of the Earth's atmosphere lying above the stratosphere and below the thermosphere, from about 31 to 50 miles (50 to 80 kilometers) above the Earth's surface. In the mesosphere, temperatures decrease with increasing altitude. Thesaurus AntonymsRelated WordsSynonymsLegend: 
Definition of MESOSPHERE. : the part of the earth's atmosphere between the stratosphere and the thermosphere in which temperature decreases with altitude to the atmosphere's absolute minimum. — me·so·spher·ic \ˌme-zə-ˈsfir-ik, ˌmē-, -sə-, -ˈsfer-\ adjective. See mesosphere defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 