Shakespeare’s contribution to the theatre is immense. He brought a new psychological realism and depth to drama, and created hundreds of living, believable characters, all of them different individuals showing the rich diversity of humanity. Shakespeare often portrays attitudes in his plays that are remote from the conventional Christianity of the day. Life on earth is not seen as simply a preparation for an after-life of reward or punishment, and death is often seen as very final.
Raphael Biography. Raffaelo (Raphael) son of the painter Giovanni Santi and his wife Magia Ciarla was born on the 28th March or the 6th April 1483. His father Giovanni Santi was a competent painter and was highly regarded in Urbino, a province that housed one of the most glittering courts in Italy.
Though it was centered in the Harlem neighborhood of the borough of Manhattan in New York City, in addition, many francophone black writers from African and Caribbean colonies who lived in Paris were also influenced by the Harlem Renaissance. Christianity played a major role in the Harlem Renaissance. Many of the writers and social critics discussed the role of Christianity in African–American lives. For example, a famous poem by Langston Hughes, Madam and the Minister, reflects the temperature and mood towards religion
THE RENAISSANCE The Renaissance Period: (14th - 17th Centuries) 1. Meaning rebirth or revival --- historical period of approximately 300 years marked by a revival in art, literature, and learning. 2. The period served as a bridge or transition between medieval and modern Western Europe. Distinctive Feature 1. 
The Movement also included the new African-American cultural expressions across the urban areas in the Northeast and Midwest United States affected by the Great Migration (African American) , of which Harlem was the largest. The Harlem Renaissance was considered to be a rebirth of African American arts. Christianity played a major role in the Harlem Renaissance. Many of the writers and social critics discussed the role of Christianity in African–American lives. For example, a famous poem by Langston Hughes, Madam and the Minister, reflects the temperature and mood towards religion
The term Renaissance is in essence a modern one that came into currency in the 19th century, in the work of historians such as Jules Michelet and Jacob Burckhardt. Some historians see this unequal distribution of wealth as important to the Renaissance, as art patronage relies on the very wealthy. The Renaissance was not a period of great social or economic change, only of cultural and ideological development.
William Shakespeare actually had several patrons over his career. The obvious patrons are the rulers during his career--Queen Elizabeth I and King James I. Generally, the ruling bodies of a society will be the major patrons of the art. (Answer #1). William Shakespeare actually had several patrons over his career. The obvious patrons are the rulers during his career--Queen Elizabeth I and King James I. Generally, the ruling bodies of a society will be the major patrons of the art. His most famous patron was the Earl of Southampton, Henry Wriothesley. Many believe that the Earl of Southampton is the “Dark Lady” that Shakespeare wrote certain sonnets for. Finally, William Herbert, the Earl of Pembroke, was his last patron. If you want to know who Shakespeare's patron was at a certain time you will need to do a little research
In the case of the princely courts of the Renaissance, commissions promoted not simply the ruler but the prestige of the city. Patronage was a tool of rulership and diplomacy. In 1959, noted art historian Bernard Berenson likened the Renaissance relationship between artist and patron to one between a carpenter, tailor, or shoemaker and a customer placing an order. The culture of the courts was a mixture of old and new, combining medieval chivalry and Renaissance humanism. The Este claimed to trace their ancestry back to the legendary knights of King Arthur’s Round Table. They had ruled as lords of Ferrara since the mid-thirteenth century.
The Harlem Renaissance was a movement that spanned the 1920s. The Harlem Renaissance was the name given to the cultural, social, and artistic explosion that took place in Harlem, New York. During the time, it was known as the  New Negro Movement , named after the 1925 anthology by Alain Locke. Christianity played a major role in the Harlem Renaissance. Many of the writers and social critics discussed the role of Christianity in African–American lives. For example, a famous poem by Langston Hughes, Madam and the Minister, reflects the temperature and mood towards religion