Quinine is a white crystalline alkaloid having antipyretic (fever-reducing), antimalarial, analgesic (painkilling), and anti-inflammatory properties and a bitter taste. 
Quinine: The original antimalarial agent, quinine took its name from the Peruvian Indian word kina meaning bark of the tree referring to the cinchona tree. From this tree, quinine was first obtained. The Peruvian Indians called it the fever tree.. Quinine, a large and complex molecule, is the most important alkaloid found in cinchona bark. Until World War I, it was the only effective treatment for malaria. In fact, quinine was the first chemical compound to be successfully used to treat an infectious diseas
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: quinine (Noun). A bitter colourless powder, an alkaloid derived from cinchona bark, used to treat malaria and as an ingredient of tonic water. An alkaloid derived from the bark of the cinchona tree. It is used as an antimalarial drug, and is the active ingredient in extracts of the cinchona that have been used for that purpose since before 1633.
n an alkaloid derived from cinchona that is effec-tive against malaria. It is also used as an antipyretic, analgesic, sclerosing agent, and stomachic and in the treatment of atrial fibrillation and myotonia congenita. 
Quinine. Definition. noun. (pharmacology) A bitter, crystalline, alkaloid powder extracted from Cinchona bark used for medical purposes such as for the treatment of malarial disease. Supplement. Quinine is a crystalline alkaloid that is bitter in taste, whitish in color (or colorless), and needle-like in shape. 
Noun. 1. quinine-a bitter alkaloid extracted from chinchona bark; used in malaria therapy. antimalarial, antimalarial drug-a medicinal drug used to prevent or treat malaria. quinine water, tonic, tonic water-lime-or lemon-flavored carbonated water containing quinine. Translations. [kwɪˈniːn] N → quinina f. 
Noun. 1. quinine-a bitter alkaloid extracted from chinchona bark; used in malaria therapy. antimalarial, antimalarial drug-a medicinal drug used to prevent or treat malaria. quinine water, tonic, tonic water-lime-or lemon-flavored carbonated water containing quinine. Translations. [kwɪˈniːn] N → quinina f. 
Quinine has been used outside of malaria as a remedy for fever and pain and to treat and prevent leg cramps. Prolonged administration of quinine may produce toxic symptoms such as deafness, disturbances in vision, skin rashes, and digestive upsets. From this tree, quinine was first obtained. The Peruvian Indians called it the fever tree.. Quinine, a large and complex molecule, is the most important alkaloid found in cinchona bark. Until World War I, it was the only effective treatment for malaria.
: a bitter crystalline alkaloid C20H24N2O2 obtained from cinchona bark that is used as a flavoring agent, has antipyretic and analgesic properties, and is administered orally in the form of its salts (as the hydrated sulfate (C20H24N2O2)2·H2SO4·2H2O) as an antimalarial. Full Definition of QUININE. 1. : a bitter crystalline alkaloid C20H24N2O2 from cinchona bark used in medicine. 2. : a salt of quinine used especially as an antipyretic, antimalarial, and bitter tonic. See quinine defined for English-language learners. See quinine defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT