Reptiles are a diverse group of vertebrates and consequently what reptiles eat differs from species to species. That said, there are some general dietary trends in reptiles that can be noted. Most reptiles are carnivores that feed on small invertebrates, mammals and reptiles. A few reptiles are herbivores that feed on plant material as varied as grasses, fruits, shrubs and marine plants such as algae and kelp.
1 Fish live in water. 2  Fish have a backbone. 3  They are vertebrates. 4  Fish breathe using gills. 5  They absorb oxygen through the gills. 6  Almost all fish are cold-blooded. 7  Two of the exceptions are the tuna and the Pacific salmon shark, which can raise their body temperature to some degree. 1 Amphibians spend at least part of their lives in water and on land. 2  Amphibians do not have scales and their skin is permeable (molecules and gases can pass through). 3  Amphibians have gills for at least part of their lives. 4  Some species have gills only as larvae, while others can have gills throughout their lives
Overview: A program that introduces students to some of the major differences between fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds and mammals. Students will understand the differences between vertebrates and invertebrates, and how humans fit into the environment. The level of differentiation we are going to examine in this program is the broad taxonomic classification class.. The phylum chordata (animals with backbones) is divided into five common classes: fish, amphibians, reptiles, mammals and birds.
All reptiles are cold blooded, have scales, and are vertebrates. They are characterized by: -Breathing air. -Laying shelled eggs (except for some vipers and constrictor snakes that give live birth). -Having skin covered in scales and/or scutes. Edit: The 'reproductive strategy common in all groups of reptiles' is-inte … rnal fertilization through copulation. This distinguishes them from amphibians who lay soft-bodied eggs in water, which are then fertilized by the male ejecting a 'cloud of sperm'. 1 person found this useful.
1 Fish have a backbone. 2  They are vertebrates. 3  Fish breathe using gills. 4  They absorb oxygen through the gills. 5  Almost all fish are cold-blooded. 6  Two of the exceptions are the tuna and the Pacific salmon shark, which can raise their body temperature to some degree. 1 Amphibians spend at least part of their lives in water and on land. 2  Amphibians do not have scales and their skin is permeable (molecules and gases can pass through). 3  Amphibians have gills for at least part of their lives. 4  Some species have gills only as larvae, while others can have gills throughout their lives
Anatomy. All reptiles have lungs which they use to breathe air, while only some species of amphibians do, and those that do have very primitive lungs. The majority of amphibians can also breathe through their skin. Both reptiles and amphibians shed their skin. All reptiles have lungs which they use to breathe air, while only some species of amphibians do, and those that do have very primitive lungs. The majority of amphibians can also breathe through their skin
To identify an animal as a reptile, it should have each of these characteristics: 1  Reptiles have a backbone. 2  Reptiles are covered in scales. 3  Reptiles breathe with lungs. 4  Most reptiles lay eggs. 5  Almost all reptiles are cold-blooded. 1 Amphibians spend at least part of their lives in water and on land. 2  Amphibians do not have scales and their skin is permeable (molecules and gases can pass through). 3  Amphibians have gills for at least part of their lives. 4  Some species have gills only as larvae, while others can have gills throughout their lives
There are many different animal classes and every animal in the world belongs to one of them. The five most well known classes of vertebrates (animals with backbones) are mammals, birds, fish, reptiles, amphibians. They are all part of the phylum chordata -- I remember  chordata  by thinking of spinal chord. There are also a lot of animals without backbones. 