• Definition of Oligarchy and Plutocracy: • An Oligarchy refers to a government or political system controlled and ruled by a small and elite group of people. This group is not limited to wealthy people alone but includes other privileged individuals or groups of people such as royalty, noblemen, landowners, academics or philosophers, and military officers. As mentioned above, an Oligarchy is a type of political system or government. It is defined as a form of government controlled or ruled by a small and elite group of people. Thus, this small group of people has control of the government and, of course, the entire state.
noun. The definition of a plutocracy is a political system where the wealthy govern. When the richest people have all of the power in a society and make all of the political decisions, this is an example of a plutocracy. pl. -·cies. 1  government by the wealthy.
Plutocracy (from Greek πλοῦτος, ploutos, meaning wealth, and κράτος, kratos, meaning power, dominion, rule) or plutarchy, is a form of oligarchy and defines a society ruled or controlled by the small minority of the wealthiest citizens. The first known use of the term was in 1652. One modern, formal example of what some critics have described as a plutocracy is the City of London. The City (not the whole of modern London but the area of the ancient city, about 1 sq mile or 2.5 km2, which now mainly comprises the financial district) has a unique electoral system for its local administration.
Full Definition of PLUTOCRACY. 1. : government by the wealthy. 2. : a controlling class of the wealthy. — plu·to·crat \ˈplue-ˈplü-tə\ ˌkrat. — noun·plu·to·crat \ic-ˌplue-ˌplü-tə\ ˈkra. — tik·adjective·plu·to·crat·i \-cal-ly(ti-)k\ ə. Lē adverb see plutocracy Defined-for english. language learners Full Definition of PLUTOCRACY. 1. : government by the wealthy. 2. : a controlling class of the wealthy. — plu·to·crat \ˈplue-ˈplü-tə\ ˌkrat. — noun·plu·to·crat \ic-ˌplue-ˌplü-tə\ ˈkra. — tik·adjective·plu·to·crat·i \-cal-ly(ti-)k\ ə. Lē adverb see plutocracy Defined-for english. Language learners see plutocracy defined. for kids
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. A plutocracy is a government that is ruled by the wealthy or controlled by wealthy individuals. The term usually is used pejoratively, because it implies a lack of democratic freedom and social mobility. Some people believe that a plutocracy is not a just system of government. They argue that it does not promote the welfare of the population as a whole. Critics claim that it tends to promote class disparity and systemic inequalities.
Plutocracy. Plutocracy is the rule by the super-rich international capitalists and their retainers; the press, office holders, spies and thugs. In a plutocracy the middle class is controlled though taxation, low-cost imports (free trade) and corrupt politicians and in a communist system the middle class is exterminated. The perfect plutocracy consists of two classes only—the plutocrats and their overseers and the subsistence-level poor.
The United States as a Plutocracy. A plutocracy is a system of rule by people of wealth, which describes our situation far more accurately than the term democracy. We have been an Empire ruled as a plutocracy since our founding. Hear my video commentary on American Plutocracy and the transition to Deep Democracy. White Men of the Propertied Class.
Full Definition of PLUTOCRACY. 1. : government by the wealthy. 2. : a controlling class of the wealthy. — plu·to·crat \ˈplue-ˈplü-tə\ ˌkrat. — noun·plu·to·crat \ic-ˌplue-ˌplü-tə\ ˈkra. — tik·adjective·plu·to·crat·i \-cal-ly(ti-)k\ ə. lē adverb Full Definition of PLUTOCRACY. 1. : government by the wealthy. 2. : a controlling class of the wealthy. — plu·to·crat \ˈplue-ˈplü-tə\ ˌkrat. — noun·plu·to·crat \ic-ˌplue-ˌplü-tə\ ˈkra. — tik·adjective·plu·to·crat·i \-cal-ly(ti-)k\ ə. Lē adverb see plutocracy Defined-for english. Language learners see plutocracy defined. for kids
Plutocracy is, therefore, defined as a state, society or government controlled and ruled by the wealthy or a wealthy class. This particular class of people govern a state or society because of their wealth, or rather, their power stems from their wealth. As mentioned above, an Oligarchy is a type of political system or government. It is defined as a form of government controlled or ruled by a small and elite group of people. Thus, this small group of people has control of the government and, of course, the entire state.