On this page, there is a list of names of roses that are some of the most beloved and popular varieties in the World. The different kinds of roses names are from a variety of plants. Some are yellow, there are red, white, pink and even multicolored, and of course lots of hybrid teas as well as wild roses names. For the most time it's just rose breeders, the people who bred the plant. The flower names of roses, and what they name the roses, is very important. The name of the rose will help sell the them, and it will give someone an idea of what it is like. Sometimes they are named after a famous or favorite person. Of course, then you have to get the permission from the owner of the name. But most people would be flattered to have a rose named after them
The Name of the Rose (Italian: Il nome della rosa, German: Der Name der Rose, French: Le nom de la rose) is a 1986 film directed by Jean-Jacques Annaud, based on the book of the same name by Umberto Eco. 
Rose /rose/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name is pronounced rohz. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Rose is  rose . Flower name from rosa. The name, which the Normans brought to Britain in the 11th century, can also be traced to the Old German words hros meaning horse, or hrod meaning  fame, renown. The flower meaning is possibly more valid, given the Christian symbolic meaning of the rose. The rosa mystica is the Virgin Mary.
Rose, one of the old-time sweet-smelling flower names, has had a remarkable revival—first of all as a middle name—with parents (e.g., Jennifer Garner & Ben Affleck, Jon Stewart, Eric Clapton, Ewan McGregor) finding Rose to be the perfect connective, with more color and charm than old standbys like Sue and Ann. As a first name, Rose reached its highest point from 1896 to 1921, the early heyday of flower names, when it was in the Top 20, though it had been in use for centuries before. Rosy / Rosie is an irresistibly cheery nickname.
Originally, Rose was a short form of any of the old Germanic names in use in England in the Middle Ages that contained the element hros, ros (horse). Flower names began being used in the 19th century, and now Rose is bestowed with reference to the flower. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Comments and insights on the name Rose: | Edit. Rose was THE fashionable middle name of the 1990s and 2000s. Many celebrities have given it to their daughters as a middle name. It is less common as a first name. A really cute middle name, goes with anything.
Scottish Meaning: The name Rose is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Rose is: Flower. American Meaning: The name Rose is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Rose is: Flower.
For the 1986 film adaptation, see The Name of the Rose (film) . For other uses, see The Name of the Rose (disambiguation) . The Name of the Rose (Italian: Il nome della rosa) is the 1980 debut novel by Italian author Umberto Eco. It is a historical murder mystery set in an Italian monastery, in the year 1327, an intellectual mystery combining semiotics in fiction, biblical analysis, medieval studies, and literary theory