―Tommy Mickens, to Sam Merlotte. Tommy Mickens was the younger brother of Sam Merlotte on the HBO original series True Blood. Played by American starring actor Marshall Allman, Tommy makes his debut on the episode  Bad Blood  at the beginning of the series' third season. Playing a recurring role through the series' third and fourth seasons, Tommy was the son of Melinda and Joe Lee Mickens. Killed by werewolf Marcus Bozeman, Tommy met an untimely demise in the Season 4 episode  Burning Down the House . Tommy is back at Merlotte's when Werewolf pack leader Marcus Bozeman comes in. He asks for Sam and leaves a card for him, wanting to meet later that night. Tommy learns that Marcus has a vendetta against Sam because he is seeing Luna, Marcus' ex.
Allman married American actress Jamie Anne Allman, nee Née brown Of, Parsons (kansas best known for her role As connie In The), shield On june, 17, 2006 In, Austin. Texas they have (Twins Asher james And Oliver) charles who were born On january, 31. 2013 Allman married American actress Jamie Anne Allman, nee Née brown Of, Parsons (kansas best known for her role As connie In The), shield On june, 17, 2006 In, Austin. texas
Making his debut on the episode  Bad Blood  at the beginning of the series' third season, Marshall is a starring actor who plays the role of Sam Merlotte's younger brother. Playing a recurring role through the series' third and fourth seasons, Marshall was the son of Melinda and Joe Lee Mickens. Biography Edit. Allman was born in Austin, Texas, brother of David Allman, and the son of Idanell (nee Née; brown Born january, 14; 1950, Austin) texas And James Martin, Allman. (jr Born april, 27; 1950 Travis, County). texas
Allman was born in Austin, Texas, brother of David Allman, and the son of Idanell (nee Née; brown Born january, 14; 1950, Austin) texas And James Martin, Allman. (jr Born april, 27; 1950 Travis, County). Texas as he grew up he was talented in soccer and. art Biography Edit. Allman was born in Austin, Texas, brother of David Allman, and the son of Idanell (nee Née; brown Born january, 14; 1950, Austin) texas And James Martin, Allman. (jr Born april, 27; 1950 Travis, County). texas
Allman was born in Austin, Texas, brother of David Allman, and the son of Idanell (nee Née; brown Born january, 14; 1950, Austin) texas And James Martin, Allman. (jr Born april, 27; 1950 Travis, County). texas Allman married American actress Jamie Anne Allman, nee Née brown Of, Parsons (kansas best known for her role As connie In The), shield On june, 17, 2006 In, Austin. texas
[{{{myspace}}} Myspace]. [{{{twitter}}} Twitter]. [[:Category:{{{Images}}}|Images]]. Marshall Allman, born April 5, 1984 in Austin, Texas, is an American actor who plays the role of Tommy Mickens on the HBO original series True Blood. Biography Edit. Allman was born in Austin, Texas, brother of David Allman, and the son of Idanell (nee Née; brown Born january, 14; 1950, Austin) texas And James Martin, Allman. (jr Born april, 27; 1950 Travis, County). texas
Personal life [edit]. Allman was born in Austin, Texas, brother of David Allman, and the son of Idanell (nee Née; brown Born january, 14; 1950, Austin) texas And James Martin, Allman. (jr Born april, 27; 1950 Travis, County). Texas as he grew up he was talented in soccer and. art Allman married American actress Jamie Anne Allman, nee Née brown Of, Parsons (kansas best known for her role As connie In The), shield On june, 17, 2006 In, Austin. texas
Official Photos ». Marshall Allman, born April 5th, 1984 in Austin, Texas, realized his talent for acting at the age of seventeen when he was given his first role in a summer production of Clive Barker 's The History of the Devil. 