You have to be age 65 to get Medicare unless you have been on SSDI (Social Security Disability Income) for two years, or if you have been diagnosed with End Stage Renal Disease or Lou Gherig's Disease prior to age 65 (with each of those stipulations there are some other qualifying factors). 
And since you're eligible for Social Security survivors benefits, Medicare Part A is free for you, so there's no reason not to have it. Because you already receive Social Security benefits, you will be automatically enrolled in Part A within three months of your 65 th birthday. When you turn 65, you will also be automatically enrolled in Medicare Part B, which would cost you $96.40 a month.
Medicare is our country’s health insurance program for people age 65 or older. Certain people younger than age 65 can qualify for Medicare, too, including those who have disabilities and those who have permanent kidney failure. The program helps with the cost of health care, but it does not cover all medical expenses or the cost of most long-term care. More... If you already have Medicare Part A and wish to sign up for Medicare Part B, please complete form CMS 40-B, Application for Enrollment in Medicare-Part B (Medical Insurance) , and take or mail it to your local Social Security office. Anyone who has Medicare can get Medicare prescription drug coverage.
If you are under age 65, then the Medigap insurance age can, and most likely will be different. In some states like Georgia, Pennsylvania, and Oregon (among others), all Medicare supplement plans are available to individuals under age 65 due to disability. The Medicare supplement insurance age requirement is not necessarily at a certain point, rather simply, as long as you are on Medicare, you will likely be eligible for a Medicare supplement, although if you are under age 65 on Medicare disability, the Medigap age requirements may
You qualify under age 65 if: ﻿ 1  You have been entitled to Social Security disability benefits for at least 24 months (which need not be consecutive); or. ﻿ 2  You receive a disability pension from the Railroad Retirement Board and meet certain conditions; or. Provided that you're a U.S. citizen or have been a legal resident for at least five years, you can still get Medicare benefits at age 65 or older by: ﻿ 1  Paying premiums for Part A (hospital insurance). 2  If you have fewer than 30 work credits, you pay the maximum premium, $426 a month in 2014.
If you want your Medicare coverage to begin when you turn age 65, you should. contact Social Security during the 3 months before your 65th birthday. If you wait. until your 65th birthday or later, your Part B coverage will be delayed. I am age 65, still working, and covered by a group. health plan. If you want Part B coverage to begin the month you turn age 65, you. must sign up for it during the first 3 months of your Initial Enrollment Period. If you wait until you are age 65, or sign up during the last 3 months of your. Initial Enrollment Period, your Part B start dat
If you’ve been getting disability benefits from Social Security or from the Railroad Retirement Board for 24 months in a row, you will be automatically enrolled in Original Medicare, Part A and Part B, when you reach the 25th month. Medicare is usually available to Americans aged 65 and older. In some cases, however, the Medicare eligibility age is lower; people under 65 with certain disabilities qualify for Medicare enrollment.
Retirees and those still working. To receive full Medicare coverage at 65, you (or your spouse) have to have earned enough credits to be eligible for Social Security. In 2014, each $1,200 you earn equals one credit, but you can only earn a maximum of four each year. Starting in 2015, getting a point will require earning $1,220. 
1 ﻿ Paying premiums for Part A (hospital insurance). 2  If you have fewer than 30 work credits, you pay the maximum premium, $426 a month in 2014. 3  If you have 30 to 39 credits, you pay less, $234 a month in 2014. 4  If you continue working until you gain 40 credits, you will no longer pay these premiums. Provided that you're a U.S. citizen or have been a legal resident for at least five years, you can still get Medicare benefits at age 65 or older by: ﻿ 1 