You can leave the chicks in the incubator for 24 hours without food and water as they will still be feeding on the feed sac from the egg. When they hatch out their down feathers are damp and it is good to let them completely dry out and fluff up. It is also good to keep them in the incubator for up to 24 hours after hatching if you have other eggs in the incubator as not all eggs hatch at the same time. I have left quail, guinea fowl and ducks in the incubator for 24 hours before transferring them to the brooder
You can leave them in there for 24 hours. Some people will say longer and up to 30 hours, but I think quail need to eat and drink much faster than chicken chicks. They have just absorbed their yolk sac just before hatching and can stay there for at least 24 hours. 
When at 102 degrees, eggs hatched early and some chicks were deformed. When (hatching quail eggs) , keep the temperature at 100 degrees (or as close as possible), and we believe you will be satisfied with all your hatches. Coturnix eggs takes 16 to 18 days to hatch. all else same as bobwhite. Place the eggs in incubator with the small end pointing down.Turn off auto turner for first 3 days if the incubator has one. Egg trays must turn at least 30 degrees each way, with a total of 60 degrees total movement
So as long as chicks are hatching, you shouldn’t open the incubator. Chicks should not take any longer then three days to hatch, which is how long a chick can live after hatching without eating. Best wishes, Jamie/Rhode Runner. rhode runner · 5 years ago. Chicks can actually go into the brooder after they hatch and dry a bit. However, sometimes opening up the incubator is extremely risky, depending on the incubator. With many incubators you do not want to open it while other chicks are hatching.
Follow the instruction manual that came with the egg incubator to learn how to modify its humidity and temperature settings. The best humidity for hatching quail eggs is 70% humidity while you are incubating the quail eggs. After the quail eggs hatch, adjust the humidity to 80%. The temperature of the incubator should be at approximately 100 degrees fahrenheit
Japanese Quail chicks will begin to hatch from the 16th day of incubation, but most of them should hatch on the 17th day. Any quail chicks that hatch after the 18th day will probably die. If you achieve 75% of hatching rate or above, you’ve done very well. 
The length of time to hatch fertile quail eggs depends largely upon the type of quail that you are hatching. For example, fertile Bobwhite quail eggs take 24 days to hatch. Brooding Baby Quail: Baby quail need to be placed into a brooder to keep them warm after they hatch. In nature, the mother quail would keep the baby quail warm. If you've used an incubator, you must use an artifical method of heating. The best humidity for hatching quail eggs is 70% humidity while you are incubating the quail eggs. After the quail eggs hatch, adjust the humidity to 80%.
Hatching Quails. Quail eggs do not need to be incubated as long as other poultry, Japanese Quail need between 16-18 days of incubation. Japanese Quails rarely sit on their eggs, an instinct they have almost lost by intensive breeding. An incubator is required to hatch the eggs. Eggs set for incubation should be 3 to 7 days old; older eggs will have a lower hatch rate and need a longer period of time to hatch. Before incubating eggs, store at room temperature and turn the eggs everyday. Ensure you only use clean eggs, dont wipe eggs with anything i.e. liquids.
hi Richard, generally you leave them in the incubator for 12 to 24 hours after they have hatched, to let them dry out. They won't need food just after they have hatched, so don't bother putting any in the incubator. Suz. Leave the chicks in the incubator for 24 hours, do not open lid, and dont worry they can survive for at least 48 hours with no food and water. (they are still absorbing yolk). _________________. Welcome to Quail's Anonymous - Hi my name is Suz and I can't stop hatching quail.