City of Hope is a private, not-for-profit clinical research center, hospital and graduate medical school located in Duarte, California, United States. City of Hope played a role in the development of synthetic human insulin in 1978. The center has performed 12,000 hematopoietic stem cell transplants as of 2014 with patient outcomes that consistently exceed national averages. City of Hope is a founding member of the National Comprehensive Cancer Network
City of Hope may refer to: 1  City of Hope (film) , a 1991 film taking place in fictitious Hudson City, New Jersey. 2  City of Hope National Medical Center, a cancer center in Duarte, California. 3  City of Hope (charity) , the medical center's charity. 
Designated as a comprehensive cancer center, the highest recognition bestowed by the National Cancer Institute, City of Hope is also a founding member of the National Comprehensive Cancer Network, with research and treatment protocols that advance care throughout the nation. At City of Hope, scientists work with doctors to treat both the physical and emotional needs of our patients. By attending to the individual, not just the illness, your life afterwards can be fuller and more rewarding. At City of Hope, we combine science with soul to make miracles every day.
City of Hope has been designated a Comprehensive Cancer Center by the National Cancer Institute, a branch of the National Institutes of Health, part of the United States Department of Health and Human Services. City of Hope is a bench to bedside institution. City of Hope played a role in the development of synthetic human insulin in 1978. The center has performed 12,000 hematopoietic stem cell transplants as of 2014 with patient outcomes that consistently exceed national averages. City of Hope is a founding member of the National Comprehensive Cancer Network
Duarte, California. Founded in 1913, City of Hope began focusing on cancer research and treatment in the late 1940s. Receiving its NCI designation in 1981 and its designation as a comprehensive cancer center in 1998, City of Hope is today a biomedical research, treatment, and education center. City of Hope houses the National Medical Center, Beckman Research Institute, City of Hope Medical Foundation and the Irell & Manella Graduate School of Biological Sciences.
City of Hope is a leading research and treatment center for cancer, diabetes and other life-threatening diseases. City of Hope's main hospital is located in Duarte, Calif., just northeast of Los Angeles, with clinics in Antelope Valley and South Pasadena. It is ranked as one of America's Best Hospitals in cancer by U.S. News & World Report.
City of Hope is best known as a cancer treatment center. It has been designated a Comprehensive Cancer Center by the National Cancer Institute, a branch of the National Institutes of Health, part of the United States Department of Health and Human Services. City of Hope played a role in the development of synthetic human insulin in 1978. The center has performed 12,000 hematopoietic stem cell transplants as of 2014 with patient outcomes that consistently exceed national averages. City of Hope is a founding member of the National Comprehensive Cancer Network
Who We Are. City of Hope is a world leader in the research and treatment of cancer, diabetes, and other serious diseases. We deliver scientific miracles that make lives whole again. Compassion is the heart of our approach and the driving force behind all our discoveries. At City of Hope, scientists work with doctors to treat both the physical and emotional needs of our patients. By attending to the individual, not just the illness, your life afterwards can be fuller and more rewarding. At City of Hope, we combine science with soul to make miracles every day.