1 Place pork loin into oven, turning and basting with pan liquids. 2  Cook until the pork is no longer pink in the center, about 1 hour. 3  An instant-read thermometer inserted into the center should read 145 degrees F (63 degrees C). 4  Remove roast to a platter. 
Remove the roast from the oven and set on a cutting board. Cover the meat with tin foil and let it rest for about 15 minutes before slicing it. The temperature of the roast will continue to rise about another 5 degrees. Cooking to this temp, then allowing the roast to rest for 15 minutes after removing from the oven, will take the roast to approximately 150 degrees, at which point you can serve it and it will be the juiciest, most tender pork you can get. Don’t mind it if it’s a bit pink in the middle – it’s ok.
1 Remove pork from oven, lightly cover with foil, and let rest 5-10 minutes to redistribute internal juices. 2  Roast should be done, very slightly pink in the center, and very moist. 3  After resting 10 minutes, the roast should reach a safe 145-150 degrees. 1 Weight will determine how long to cook the roast. 2  Preheat oven to 500 degrees. 3  Remove tenderloin from refrigerator. 4  Season meat as desired. 5  Place seasoned meat in an uncovered roasting pan on a shelf in the bottom 1/3 of your oven.
3. Heat the oven to 500 degrees for a raw roast, 375 for a pre-browned one. 4. Place the roasting pan in the oven; cook for 10 minutes, then lower the heat to 300 degrees. 5. Cook for about 45 minutes, then start checking the roast's temperature with an instant-read thermometer. Remove the roast when the internal temperature, measured as deep into the roast as you can get, reads 165 degrees. 6.
Swirl to coat the bottom. Roast the pork for 10 minutes: Set the pork in the pan. (It's fine if your pork tenderloin is a little long for the pan; just bend it to fit as we did here.) Return the pan to the oven. Roast for 10 minutes. Flip the pork, reduce the heat, and roast another 10 to 15 minutes: Flip the pork to the other side. 
20 minutes a pound. Preheat an oven to 400 degrees for the first 10 minutes, and then down to 325 for the remaining period. You can put it in an oven roaster bag or cover with foil but it is unnecessary. Tenderloin is done when the juices run clear when pricked with a fork. Remove the roast from the pan and let rest for a minimum of 7 minutes for the juices to settle into the meat.
Roast the tenderloin at 450 F for 10 to 15 minutes to aid browning, then reduce the oven to 325 F. Roast the tenderloin until an instant-read thermometer inserted into the thickest part shows an internal temperature of 140 F. Remove the tenderloin from your oven and cover it loosely with aluminum foil. Let it rest for 10 minutes before carving, which gives its internal temperature time to rise to 145 F, the temperature recommended by the U.S. Department of Agriculture for food safety. 
1 If you want a darker crust to your pork tenderloin, brown it on all sides in a frying pan, about 10 or 12 minutes altogether, then put it in the hot oven to finish cooking. 2  Check the temperature with an instant-read thermometer after 15 minutes in the oven. Place the roast on a cutting board and cover with foil. Carryover cooking will raise the internal temperature to about 160 degrees Fahrenheit. Let the roast rest for 10 minutes while you strain the pan juices and bring them to a boil. Serve the pan juices on the side.
The internal temperature of the pork roast should between 145 and 160 degrees. Do not overcook the pork, it will become dry. Also make sure you allow the pork loin roast for about 10 minutes before serving. There is no need to cover the roast with foil or a lid while it is cooking; this is a dry roasting technique. 
At what temperature and for how long per pound do you cook a pork roast? My co-worker wants her daughter(13) to put the roast in the oven for her before she gets home, but she did't know at what temp and for how long to tell her to leave it in. She said it is a small 2 lb pork roast. 4. Place the roasting pan in the oven; cook for 10 minutes, then lower the heat to 300 degrees. 5. Cook for about 45 minutes, then start checking the roast's temperature with an instant-read thermometer. Remove the roast when the internal temperature, measured as deep into the roast as you can get, reads 165 degrees. 6.