So what is that? The best definition I can give is that “ORP is a measure of the cleanliness of the water & its ability to break down contaminants”. It has a range of –2,000 to + 2,000 and units are in “mV” (millivolts). Since ozone is an oxidizer, we are only concerned with positive ORP levels (above 0 mV). ORP sensors work by measuring the dissolved oxygen.
›› Definition: Millivolt. The SI prefix milli represents a factor of 10 -3, or in exponential notation, 1E-3. So 1 millivolt = 10 -3 volts. The definition of a volt is as follows: The volt (symbol: V) is the SI derived unit of electric potential difference or electromotive force, commonly known as voltage. ›› Definition: Volt. The volt (symbol: V) is the SI derived unit of electric potential difference or electromotive force, commonly known as voltage. It is named in honor of the Lombard physicist Alessandro Volta (1745 1827), who invented the voltaic pile, the first chemical battery.
For example, take a sensor that is rated for 1000 units with an output voltage of 0-1 volts (V). This means that at 1 volt the equivalent measurement is 1000 units or 1 mV equals one unit. 
1 Usually, this is defined at the lowest range setting of the instrument. 2  For example, an AC meter with a lowest measurement range of 10 V may be able to measure signals with 1 mV resolution but the smallest detectable voltage it can measure may be 15 mV. 
• MV (noun). The noun MV has 2 senses: 1. a unit of potential equal to one thousandth of a volt. 2. a radioactive transuranic element synthesized by bombarding einsteinium with alpha particles (Md is the current symbol for mendelevium but Mv was formerly the symbol). Familiarity information: MV used as a noun is rare. Dictionary entry details.
WHAT IS ORP? ORP stands for oxidation-reduction potential, which isa measure, in millivolts, of the tendency of a chemicalsubstance to oxidize or reduce another chemical sub-stance. OXIDATION Oxidation is the loss of electrons by an atom, mole-cule, or ion. 
Hypernyms (mV is a kind of...): potential unit (a measure of the potential energy of a unit charge at a given point in a circuit relative to a reference point (ground)). Holonyms (mV is a part of...): 1. a unit of potential equal to one thousandth of a volt. 2. a radioactive transuranic element synthesized by bombarding einsteinium with alpha particles (Md is the current symbol for mendelevium but Mv was formerly the symbol). Familiarity information: MV used as a noun is rare. Dictionary entry details.
Part of the Telecom glossary: dBmV (decibels relative to one millivolt) is a measure of the signal strength in wires and cables at RF and AF frequencies. A millivolt is 1/1000 of a volt (0.001 V or 10 -3 V). The dBmV increment is based on the decibel, a logarithm ic measure of relative signal strength. Suppose a signal has an rms voltage of E mV. Then the signal strength in dBmV, symbolized S dBmV, is: S dBmV = 20 log 10 E. A 1-mV signal across a pure resistance has a level of 0 dBmV.
›› Definition: Millivolt. The SI prefix milli represents a factor of 10 -3, or in exponential notation, 1E-3. So 1 millivolt = 10 -3 volts. The definition of a volt is as follows: The volt (symbol: V) is the SI derived unit of electric potential difference or electromotive force, commonly known as voltage