Top 10 facts about the world. Porencephaly is a rare condition characterized by the appearance of small cysts in the cerebral hemisphere. This cephalic disorder can be caused by abnormalities in fetal or infant development, and it can vary in severity. 
Definition. Porencephaly is a rare condition in which fluid-filled hollows or cavities develop on the surface of the brain. These cavities usually form at sites where damage has been caused by infection, loss of blood flow, or stroke during brain development, but may also be genetic in origin. 
Porencephaly is an extremely rare disorder of the central nervous system in which a cyst or cavity filled with cerebrospinal fluid develops in the brain. The prognosis for children with porencephaly varies according to the location and extent of the cysts or cavities. Some children with this disorder develop only minor neurological problems and have normal intelligence, while others may be severely disabled and die before their second decade of life.
Porencephaly is a rare congenital disorder that results in cystic degeneration and encephalomalacia and the formation of porencephalic cysts. For the purpose of this article the term porencephaly is taken to mean the following: a cystic lesion of the brain due to an encephaloclastic insult (e.g. intrauterine infections and ischaemia), lined by white matter, which communicates with the ventricles and/or the subarachnoid space.
Porencephaly is an extremely rare cephalic disorder involving encephalomalacia. It is a neurological disorder of the central nervous system characterized with cysts or cavities within the cerebral hemisphere. Porencephaly was termed by Heschl in 1859 to describe a cavity in the human brain. Patients diagnosed with porencephaly display a variety of symptoms, from mild to severe effects on the patient. Patients with severe cases of porencephaly suffer epileptic seizures and developmental delays, whereas patients with a mild case of porencephaly display little to no seizures and healthy neurodevelopment.
Porencephaly: Porencephaly is an extremely rare disorder of the central nervous system involving cysts or cavities in a cerebral hemisphere. The cysts or cavities are usually the remnants of destructive lesions, but are sometimes the result of abnormal development. Article Excerpts about Porencephaly. Porencephaly is an extremely rare disorder of the central nervous system involving cysts or cavities in a cerebral hemisphere. The cysts or cavities are usually the remnants of destructive lesions, but are sometimes the result of abnormal development.
In porencephaly, cysts or cavities form on the surface of the brain. These cysts or cavities may become filled with cerebrospinal fluid, a colorless fluid that normally surrounds the brain and spinal cord to provide protection and nourishment. 
1 Porencephaly: A central nervous system disorder involving cysts in the brain cortex caused by stroke, infection or genetic anomaly. 
Porencephaly: A disorder of the central nervous system involving a cyst or cavity in a cerebral hemisphere of the brain. The cysts or cavities are usually the remnants of destructive lesions, but are sometimes the result of abnormal development. Porencephaly has a number of different causes including absence of brain development and destruction of brain tissue. The presence of porencephalic cysts can sometimes be detected by transillumination of the skull in infancy (when a strong light is shined through the head).