A committee (or commission) is a type of small deliberative assembly that is usually intended to remain subordinate to another, larger deliberative assembly. When a larger assembly meets as a committee to discuss or debate, this is called a  committee of the whole . 1 For example, an organization considering a major capital investment might create a temporary working committee of several people to review options and make recommendations to upper management or the board of directors.
Definition. Individual or a group, appointed by an agency, authority, or larger assembly, to whom a matter is referred, or is committed for attention, investigation, analysis, or resolution. A committee has no power per se, except the power(s) assigned to it by its appointer.
1 a committee of managers or senior members of an organization who are in charge of directing that organization ⇒ ■ She served on the management committee of the Australian Society of Authors. 1 Trends. 2  a committee of managers or senior members of an organization who are in charge of directing that organization ⇒ ■ She served on the management committee of the Australian Society of Authors.
management committee noun [C]. › a ​group of ​people who are chosen or ​elected to make decisions about how a ​club or ​charity is ​run, and to make sure that particular ​jobs are done: The ​management ​committee has ​drawn up guidelines for how the ​volunteers should be ​trained.
noun. 1  a committee of managers or senior members of an organization who are in charge of directing that organization ⇒ ■ She served on the management committee of the Australian Society of Authors. 1 Trends. 2  a committee of managers or senior members of an organization who are in charge of directing that organization ⇒ ■ She served on the management committee of the Australian Society of Authors.
An executive committee, as a type of subcommittee, has well-defined executive powers (usually spelled out in a charter or in by-laws) and meets frequently to manage the affairs and further the purposes of an organization or entity. For example, an organization considering a major capital investment might create a temporary working committee of several people to review options and make recommendations to upper management or the board of directors.
allergy management in the nursing interventions classification, a nursing intervention defined as the identification, treatment, and prevention of allergic responses to food, medications, insect bites, contrast material, blood or other substances.rtificial airway management in the nursing interventions classification, a nursing intervention defined as the maintenance of endotracheal and tracheostomy tubes and preventing complications associated with their use. See also airway management.
Management Committee. The Firm's Management Committee sets the strategic direction and oversees the management and operation of the firm along with a professional staff. Gary Rosen serves as Becker & Poliakoff's Managing Shareholder. He serves on the Management Committee with six additional long-time firm shareholders representing several of the firm's core practice areas.