It’s obvious she’s not immune to his superstar charms.”. Tom Cruise supposedly has a crush on actress Lola Kirke. According to Hollywood Life, the Mission Impossible actor, 52, has had his eye on a new lady, and sources say that things have gotten pretty intense between the two already. The two are in Atlanta filming Mena, and have grown close over the past several weeks. 
(Star). Tom Cruise is not getting married to his assistant Emily Thomas, despite a new tabloid cover story. Gossip Cop can exclusively correct this. We’re told it’s 100 percent “not true.”
(credit: AKM-GSI). Cruise and Thomas haven't confirmed their relationship. But if Cruise is dating his assistant it could be his first serious relationship since divorcing Katie Holmes in 2012. Tom Cruise and his assistant turned girlfriend Emily Thomas have reportedly been dating since late last year (credit: AKM-GSI). Sources say they have been spending a tremendous amount of time together, but it's not clear if they're truly a couple.
While it’s already been three years since Tom Cruise, 52, and Katie Holmes, 36, officially divorced, it looks like a possible romance is heating up between Tom and Lola Kirke, 24 according to a new report. We have ALL the details for you! 
The NY Post had additional predictions that don’t take a psychic including: – Sandra Bullock will adopt another child. – The Duchess of Cambridge, Kate Middleton, will have another baby. – Tom Cruise will get married again, to a woman in her 30’s and they will have a baby girl. – The Olsen twins will return to show business when their fashion empire goes bankrupt. 
Cruise-previously married to Katie Holmes, Nicole Kidman and Mimi Rogers-has reportedly been mesmorised by young Emily, and one friend came forward to explain why the Hollywood hunk could indeed be under her spell. Speaking exclusively to MailOnline on Saturday, the friend said: 'She's very good at winning boys over. With dark brown hair and hazel eyes, she bears a striking resemblance to Cruise’s most recent ex-wife, actress Katie Holmes. A source told Star magazine, 'Tom has fallen head over heels for Emily, and she feels the same way.
Domingo said that even if Holmes left Cruise to protect her daughter from the church, he likely won't give up on bringing her back to the religion. According to Scientology doctrine, Katie has denied Suri her spiritual eternity in the church. There's no chance for her now, Domingo explained to Vanity Fair. Cruise Acknowledges Scientology Played Part in Divorce. Tom Cruise reveals Suri is no longer a Scientologist… and admits religion DID ... Tom Cruise admits Katie Holmes ended marriage 'in part to protect daughter ...
Tom Cruise has admitted that Katie Holmes filed for divorce in part because of his involvement in the controversial Church of Scientology. Cruise Acknowledges Scientology Played Part in Divorce. Tom Cruise reveals Suri is no longer a Scientologist… and admits religion DID ... Tom Cruise admits Katie Holmes ended marriage 'in part to protect daughter ...