Best Answer: Drooling excessively is a sign of fear and anxiety, or could be a problem with the mouth, also a sign of poisoning. lt's also a sign that your dog is running a temperature. lf it's not fear or anxiety then you need to see the vet and find the cause.
Call your vet right way if you suspect heat stroke -- it can be dangerous. Motion sickness and anxiety: If the only time your dog gets in the car is to go to the vet for shots, of course he’ll be nervous or nauseated. Open-mouth panting and breathing, which are signs of anxiety, can cause your dog to drool.
Urinary (or bladder) incontinence happens when you are not able to keep urine from leaking out of your urethra. The urethra is the tube that carries urine out of your body from your bladder. You may leak urine from time to time. Or, you may not be able to hold any urine.
They just don’t pant as well as other dogs. If you think about it, your dog wears a fur coat, even in the summer, so it doesn’t take much for him to get overheated. Dogs that are stuck in the sun or run without access to water may also suffer from heat stroke and drool.
There are a lot of causes for involuntary passage of urine, especially in dogs. 1  Central nervous system trauma. 2  If your pet’s brain or spinal cord isn’t signaling correctly to the bladder, this miscommunication can cause urine dribbling. 3  Damage to the pudendal nerve.
Incontinence is a loss of your dog’s ability to control his bladder. It may be as simple as a few dribble spots on the carpet or as serious as a soaked bed.
Causes of Urinary Incontinence There are a lot of causes for involuntary passage of urine, especially in dogs. Central nervous system trauma. If your pet’s brain or spinal cord isn’t signaling correctly to the bladder, this miscommunication can cause urine dribbling. Damage to the pudendal nerve. This is a problem of the lower back in dogs – I see it often in my practice in older dogs with arthritis, degenerative joint disease or trauma to the lower back.