Refried beans (Spanish: frijoles refritos) is a dish of cooked and mashed beans and is a traditional staple of Mexican and Tex-Mex cuisine, although each cuisine has a different approach when making the dish. Refried beans are also popular in many other Latin American countries. In the US, refried beans are most commonly made from pinto beans. They are served as a side dish with most Tex-Mex restaurant meals. They also have become very popular as a dip for corn tortilla chips. Refried beans are also a primary ingredient in many tostada, chimichanga, and pupusa recipes.
W hen you think of some of Mexico's most iconic dishes—tacos, enchiladas, frijoles—chances are, there's cheese involved. Crumbled, grated, sliced, and melted, the cheeses in Mexican dishes contribute salty, tangy flavors and offset some of the heat from chiles and spices. 1 Queso blanco is not a type of Mexican cheese. 2  It's a general term for white cheese, used primarily in Central and South American recipes. 3  Queso anejo añejo is not an aged version of queso; fresco it is its own kind of, cheese totally different in, texture, moisture and..  form
2 Vote. alexzandrorivera. frijol is only in mexico and central america word. habichuela been used for centuries for beans it's even referred in many old books as such, so why define it as if frijol is the common name when it's not. the word poroto is used in some countries in southamerica to refer to beans such as red, black, white and yellow beans. i found this interesting link that describes the different words used and what they actually refer to.
A Name yam is also known as true yam, greater yam, cush-cush, igname, mapuey, Name yam, nyami tropical yam, and yampi. The Name yam is pronounced ny-AAH-MAY Yam. It is a common yam produced in tropical regions such as Latin America. Yam is the term that is often used to refer to various types of sweet potatoes, such as the Louisana yam, basdically a sweet potato with an orange flesh. The usage of the term yam was created for marketing purposes in Louisana.
Queso de Oaxaca. The mozzarella of Mexico (sold as quesillo in Oaxaca) is a ball of cheese created by rolling up broad skeins of cheese whose texture resembles that of string cheese. Shredded, it can top refried beans, tostadas, and soups. Sliced, it melts wonderfully for quesadillas or served with chile de agua. 1 Queso blanco is not a type of Mexican cheese. 2  It's a general term for white cheese, used primarily in Central and South American recipes. 3  Queso anejo añejo is not an aged version of queso; fresco it is its own kind of, cheese totally different in, texture, moisture and..  form
I refused to eat the Potaje  Yo no queiro FRIJOLES BLANCOS tan raro, dame de comer otra cosa  (translates to I don't want white beans, so weird, give me something else) because the beans where white, and I haven't ate white beans before. This blog is to share what I like and know how to cook. Anything from Mexican recipes taught to me by my mother to old fashioned traditional Cuban (Pre-Castro) and Spaniard cooking taught by my grandmother. Simply because it is what I've been exposed to. I learn plenty from friends, family, and other blogs
Several people have asked me why, when the beans are fried, they are called refried. Nobody I asked in Mexico seemed to know until quite suddenly it dawned on me. The Mexicans have a habit of qualifying a word to emphasize the meaning by adding the prefix re-. 
Frijoles charros (cowboy beans) is a traditional Mexican dish. It is named after the traditional Mexican horsemen, or charros. The dish is characterized by pinto beans stewed with onion, garlic, and bacon. Other common ingredients include chili peppers, tomatoes, cilantro, ham, sausage, pork and chorizo. It is served warm, and is usually of a soupy consistency.
Name [edit]. The name is a direct calque of Spanish frijoles refritos, refritos meaning well-fried, and not fried again as might be assumed from the use of re-in English. In the US, refried beans are most commonly made from pinto beans. They are served as a side dish with most Tex-Mex restaurant meals. They also have become very popular as a dip for corn tortilla chips. Refried beans are also a primary ingredient in many tostada, chimichanga, and pupusa recipes.