Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Connellyd. Confidence votes 15. insulin works on every cell in the body (except nervous cells in the brain and spinal cord which take in glucose without it). I guess you could say the target tissue is muscle tissue because that is the classic example. However it is also important in the liver. 1 Insulin Resistance and Dieting Insulin is a hormone made in the pancreas that affects metabolism. 2  It helps your body absorb glucose in the bloodstream and convert it into energy, which burns calories. 3  Insu…. 4  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
It should be noted here that there are some tissues that do not require insulin for efficient uptake of glucose: important examples are brain and the liver. This is because these cells don't use GLUT4 for importing glucose, but rather, another transporter that is not insulin-dependent. 2. The only mechanism by which cells can take up glucose is by facilitated diffusion through a family of hexose transporters. In many tissues-muscle being a prime example-the major transporter used for uptake of glucose (called GLUT4) is made available in the plasma membrane through the action of insulin.
Insulin (from the Latin, insula meaning island) is a peptide hormone produced by beta cells in the pancreas. It regulates the metabolism of carbohydrates and fats by promoting the absorption of glucose from the blood to skeletal muscles and fat tissue and by causing fat to be stored rather than used for energy. Insulin also inhibits the production of glucose by the liver. In mammals, insulin is synthesized in the pancreas within the β-cells of the islets of Langerhans. One million to three million islets of Langerhans (pancreatic islets) form the endocrine part of the pancreas, which is primarily an exocrine gland.
Elevated concentrations of glucose in blood stimulate release of insulin, and insulin acts on cells thoughout the body to stimulate uptake, utilization and storage of glucose. The effects of insulin on glucose metabolism vary depending on the target tissue. Two important effects are: 1. The only mechanism by which cells can take up glucose is by facilitated diffusion through a family of hexose transporters. In many tissues-muscle being a prime example-the major transporter used for uptake of glucose (called GLUT4) is made available in the plasma membrane through the action of insulin.
2. Insulin stimulates the liver to store glucose in the form of glycogen. A large fraction of glucose absorbed from the small intestine is immediately taken up by hepatocytes, which convert it into the storage polymer glycogen. The only mechanism by which cells can take up glucose is by facilitated diffusion through a family of hexose transporters. In many tissues-muscle being a prime example-the major transporter used for uptake of glucose (called GLUT4) is made available in the plasma membrane through the action of insulin.
Insulin causes cells in the liver, muscle, and fat tissue to take up glucose from the blood, storing it as glycogen in the liver and muscle. Thus the target cells of insulin are found mostly in these organs. Source(s): for more, see: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Insulin http://www.biomedcentral.com/1755-8794/2... Insulin makes cells in the muscle, liver, and fat tissue to collect glucose from the blood, keeping it as glycogen in the muscle and liver, so the target cells of insulin are found mostly in these organs. I think thats all right (: Source(s): Brielle · 5 years ago.
powerful vasodilator, and a protein (polypeptide) hormone secreted by heart muscle cells. homeostatic control of body water, sodium, potassium and fat (adipose tissue). It is released by muscle cells in the upper chambers (atria) of the heart (atrial myocytes), in response to high blood pressure.
1 Indirect effects are mediated primarily by a insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) , a hormone that is secreted from the liver and other tissues in response to growth hormone. 2  A majority of the growth promoting effects of growth hormone is actually due to IGF-I acting on its target cells. 