How long is the Mid-Atlantic Ridge? The Mid-Atlantic Ridge is in effect an immensely long mountain  chain extending for  about 10,000 miles(16,000  km) in a curving path from the Arctic Ocean to near the  s … outhern tip of Africa. Answered. The mid-atlantic ridge is a divergent boundary between tectonic plates. The plates separate at an average rate of about 1 inch per year. Magma from the mantle rises in the ga … p between the plates, erupting as lava which cools and adds to the plates. 3 people found this useful.
The mid-atlantic ridge is a divergent boundary between tectonic plates. The plates separate at an average rate of about 1 inch per year. Magma from the mantle rises in the ga … p between the plates, erupting as lava which cools and adds to the plates. 3 people found this useful. How many miles from Oak ridge TN to Nashville TN? It is 160 miles taking this route, if you are referring to Oak Ridge, as in the site of the Oak Ridge National Lab: Take SR-58 SOUTH, form Oak Ridge, to I-40 WEST to NASHVI … LLE.Take I-40 WEST to NASHVILLE.
The Mid-Atlantic Ridge runs down the center of the Atlantic Ocean. It spread apart at rates of 2 to 5 cm per year, and at these relatively slow spreading rates, the ridge has a deep rift valley along its crest. The rift valley is 1 to 3 km deep, about the depth and width of the Grand Canyon. University of California, Santa Barbara. The mid-ocean ridge system is the most extensive chain of mountains on earth, but more than 90% of this mountain range lies in the deep ocean. The mid-ocean ridge wraps around the globe for more than 65,000 km like the seam of a baseball.
The mid-Atlantic ridge splits nearly the entire Atlantic Ocean north to south-it's a divergent plate boundary. How many miles from Oak ridge TN to Nashville TN? It is 160 miles taking this route, if you are referring to Oak Ridge, as in the site of the Oak Ridge National Lab: Take SR-58 SOUTH, form Oak Ridge, to I-40 WEST to NASHVI … LLE.Take I-40 WEST to NASHVILLE.
The Mid-Atlantic Ridge is approximately 10,000 kms (6,213.5 miles) long. The mid-atlantic ridge is a divergent boundary between tectonic plates. The plates separate at an average rate of about 1 inch per year. Magma from the mantle rises in the ga … p between the plates, erupting as lava which cools and adds to the plates. 3 people found this useful.
The Mid-Atlantic Ridge divides the floor of the Atlantic Ocean into eastern and western sections that are composed of a series of deep-sea basins (abyssal plains). The greatest depth (c.28,000 ft/8,530 m) is the Milwaukee Deep, in the Puerto Rico Trench, N of Puerto Rico. 
The Mid-Atlantic Ridge (MAR) is a mid-ocean ridge, a divergent tectonic plate or constructive plate boundary located along the floor of the Atlantic Ocean, and part of the longest mountain range in the world. Although the Mid-Atlantic Ridge is mostly an underwater feature, portions of it have enough elevation to extend above sea level. The section of the ridge that includes the island of Iceland is also known as the Reykjanes Ridge. The ridge has an average spreading rate of about 2.5 cm per year.
How long is the Mid-Atlantic Ridge? The Mid-Atlantic Ridge is in effect an immensely long mountain  chain extending for  about 10,000 miles(16,000  km) in a curving path from the Arctic Ocean to near the  s … outhern tip of Africa. How many miles from Oak ridge TN to Nashville TN? It is 160 miles taking this route, if you are referring to Oak Ridge, as in the site of the Oak Ridge National Lab: Take SR-58 SOUTH, form Oak Ridge, to I-40 WEST to NASHVI … LLE.Take I-40 WEST to NASHVILLE.
The Mid-Atlantic Ridge is a huge underwater mountain range that runs from just 207 miles (333 km) south of the North Pole to Bouvet Island, located in the Atlantic ocean at a longitude just below South Africa. At about 6,200 miles (10,000 km) long, this range connects to a series of oceanic ridges that encircle the entire planet, with a total length of about 25,000 miles (40,000 km).
The Atlantic Ocean is the second largest of the world's oceanic divisions, following the Pacific Ocean. With a total area of about 106,400,000 square kilometres (41,100,000 sq mi), it covers approximately 20 percent of the Earth's surface and about 29 percent of its water surface area. The depth of water at the apex of the ridge is less than 2,700 metres (1,500 fathoms; 8,900 ft) in most places, while the bottom of the ridge is three times as deep. Several peaks rise above the water and form islands. The South Atlantic Ocean has an additional submarine ridge, the Walvis Ridge.