The NMDA receptor is distinct in two ways: first, it is both ligand-gated and voltage-dependent; second, it requires co-activation by two ligands: glutamate and either D-serine or glycine. A property of the NMDA receptor is its voltage-dependent activation, a result of ion channel block by extracellular Mg 2+ & Zn 2+ ions. This allows the flow of Na + and small amounts of Ca 2+ ions into the cell and K + out of the cell to be voltage-dependent.
The NMDAR is a specific type of ionotropic glutamate receptor. The NMDA receptor is named this because the agonist molecule N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) binds selectively to it, and not to other glutamate receptors. A property of the NMDA receptor is its voltage-dependent activation, a result of ion channel block by extracellular Mg 2+ & Zn 2+ ions. This allows the flow of Na + and small amounts of Ca 2+ ions into the cell and K + out of the cell to be voltage-dependent.
NMDA receptor antagonists induce a state called dissociative anesthesia, marked by catalepsy, amnesia, and analgesia. Ketamine is a favored anesthetic for emergency patients with unknown medical history and in the treatment of burn victims because it depresses breathing and circulation less than other anesthetics. To remain open, glutamate and glycine must bind to the NMDA receptor. An NMDA receptor that has glycine and glutamate bound to it and has an open ion channel is called activated.. Chemicals that deactivate the NMDA receptor are called antagonists.
The NMDA receptor forms a heterotetramer between two GluN1 and two GluN2 subunits (the subunits were previously denoted as NR1 and NR2), two obligatory NR1 subunits and two regionally localized NR2 subunits. A related gene family of NR3 A and B subunits have an inhibitory effect on receptor activity. A property of the NMDA receptor is its voltage-dependent activation, a result of ion channel block by extracellular Mg 2+ & Zn 2+ ions. This allows the flow of Na + and small amounts of Ca 2+ ions into the cell and K + out of the cell to be voltage-dependent.
Anti-N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor encephalitis is a severe but treatable autoimmune disorder which diagnosis depends on sensitive and specific antibody testing. 
NMDA receptor antagonists are a class of anesthetics that work to antagonize, or inhibit the action of, the N-Methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR). To remain open, glutamate and glycine must bind to the NMDA receptor. An NMDA receptor that has glycine and glutamate bound to it and has an open ion channel is called activated.. Chemicals that deactivate the NMDA receptor are called antagonists.
NMDA re·cep·tor. a type of glutamate receptor that participates in excitatory neurotransmission and also binds N-methyl-d -aspartate; may be particularly involved in the cell damage observed in individuals with Huntington disease. (ĕn′ĕm′dē′ā′)
NMDA Receptor Antagonists. NMDA is a receptor for the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate, which is released with noxious peripheral stimuli. The activation of NMDA receptors has been associated with hyperalgesia, neuropathic pain, and reduced functionality of opioid receptors. They each differ in their level of activity on the NMDA receptor. Ketamine is a strong NMDA antagonist, whereas the others are weaker NMDA receptor blockers. Severity and frequency of side effects depend on affinity for
Professor Seth Grant explains that NMDA is an amino acid derivative very similar to glutamate-the brain's primary excitatory neurotransmitter. Transcript: NMDA is an unfortunate acronym for N-methyl-D-aspartate, and this amino acid derivative is very similar to glutamate. Now glutamate is the excitatory neurotransmitter found in most synapses of the central nervous system, and pharmacologists made this analogue called NMDA to activate a sub-type of glutamate receptors.