SYRACUSE, N.Y. -- The polls across New York are open from noon to 9 p.m. today as Gov. Andrew Cuomo fends off a Democratic Party challenge from Fordham Law School professor Zephyr Teachout. When to vote. The polls open at noon and close at 9 p.m. Who can vote. Democrats can only vote for candidates running in Democratic Party primaries, Republicans in Republican primaries, Conservatives in Conservative primaries.
8:00 p.m.    In New Jersey, polls open at 6:00 a.m. and close at 8:00 p.m.    Click on the link below to find out the official local poll times for your specific … state /address:   8 PM   Polls in New Jersey close at 8 PM Eastern Time. In Maryland, for the 2010 General Election on November 2nd, the polls open at 7:00 am and close at 8:00 pm. Some polls may open earlier or close later. For more information, … visit the Maryland Secretary of State Web site, located in the Related Links below.
Employees who do not have 4 consecutive non-working hours between polls opening and closing, and who do not have sufficient non-working time to vote, are entitled to up to 2 hours paid leave to vote. Employees must request the leave between 2 and 10 days before Election Day. 
Where to VotePolling places are located throughout the city. You can vote ONLY at your designated polling place. Make sure your are at the correct polling site and Election District/Assembly District (ED/AD) for your address. Polling Places open 6:00 A.M. to 9:00 P.M. 1 E-mail your complete home address to us at vote@boe.nyc.ny.us and we'll e-mail your polling place location back to you. ( 2 Please put in the subject line the borough in which you reside.).
Send your voter registration form with the new information to your new county board of elections. You can obtain a Voter Registration Form from your local board of elections or any state agency participating in the National Voter Registration Act, on any business day throughout the year. Alternatively, you can download a .pdf version of the Voter Registration Form from our website. If you wish to change your enrollment from one party to another or from not-enrolled to a party, send a Voter Registration Form with your new choice to your county board of elections. The board will notify you when the change takes place, by Law, after the next general election.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. In NY State, for the 2010 General Election on November 2nd, the polls open at 6am and close at 9pm. To find the closest polling station for your location, click on the related links below. In New Jersey, for the 2010 General Election on November 2nd, the polls open at 6:00 am and close at 8:00 pm.
When You Can Vote. During general elections, polls are open from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. During primary elections, polls are open from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. in New York City and the counties of Nassau, Suffolk, Westchester, Rockland, Orange, Putnam and Erie. In all other counties, polls open at 12 noon and close at 9p.m. New York DOES NOT have early voting. Upcoming Elections in Your State. There is no statewide election in 2015, but local elections may be held. You can find more information on your local elections website here. For more information visit the New York State Board of Elections website.
Polls in NY State on election day (primary and general election) open at 6am and close at 9pm. 3 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Neila Rockson. 1,158,732 Contributions. Solving the world's problems. . . one answer at a time. In Maryland, for the 2010 General Election on November 2nd, the polls open at 7:00 am and close at 8:00 pm. Some polls may open earlier or close later. For more information, … visit the Maryland Secretary of State Web site, located in the Related Links below.
In NY State, for the 2010 General Election on November 2nd, the polls open at 6am and close at 9pm. To find the closest polling station for your location, click on the relate … d links below. In Maryland, for the 2010 General Election on November 2nd, the polls open at 7:00 am and close at 8:00 pm. Some polls may open earlier or close later. For more information, … visit the Maryland Secretary of State Web site, located in the Related L
You may register at your local board of elections or any state agency participating in the National Voter Registration Act, on any business day throughout the year. Alternatively, you can download a .pdf version of the Voter Registration Form from our website, and mail it to your county board of elections. If you wish to change your enrollment from one party to another or from not-enrolled to a party, send a Voter Registration Form with your new choice to your county board of elections. The board will notify you when the change takes place, by Law, after the next general election.