In analytic philosophy, the term natural kind is used to refer to a natural grouping, not an artificial one. Hence  raven  and  black  refer to concepts that match natural kinds, because any black raven constitutes at least some evidence that all ravens are black. But nonblack and nonraven are not, because a nonblack nonraven (an extremely wide category) is not evidence that all nonblack things are nonravens.
Quine's conception of natural kinds is liberal. Not all sets are natural kinds, but any set whose members share a natural property are a natural kind. So the set of white objects is at least a candidate natural kind and Quine asserts that positively charged objects form a natural kind. The best known of the semantic arguments as applied to natural kind terms is Putnam's Twin Earth thought experiment (see Section 1.3.1). Putnam asks us to imagine that elsewhere in the universe there is a planet exactly like Earth in virtually all respects, which we may call ‘Twin Earth’.
The term was brought into contemporary analytic philosophy by W.V.O. Quine in his essay Natural Kinds, where any set of objects forms a kind only if (and perhaps if) it is projectible, meaning judgments made about some members of that set can plausibly be extended by scientific induction to other members. Hence  raven  and  black  refer to concepts that match natural kinds, because any black raven constitutes at least some evidence that all ravens are black. But nonblack and nonraven are not, because a nonblack nonraven (an extremely wide category) is not evidence that all nonblack things are nonravens.
DEFINITION of 'Fracking'. A slang term for hydraulic fracturing. Fracking refers to the procedure of creating fractures in rocks and rock formations by injecting fluid into cracks to force them further open. The larger fissures allow more oil and gas to flow out of the formation and into the wellbore, from where it can be extracted.
That is, they would still be groups of things, distinct from other things as a group, even if there were no people around to say that they were members of the same group. The set of objects that weigh more than 50 pounds, on the other hand, almost certainly does not constitute a natural kind. Hence  raven  and  black  refer to concepts that match natural kinds, because any black raven constitutes at least some evidence that all ravens are black. But nonblack and nonraven are not, because a nonblack nonraven (an extremely wide category) is not evidence that all nonblack things are nonravens.
Natural Law. The term natural law is ambiguous. It refers to a type of moral theory, as well as to a type of legal theory, but the core claims of the two kinds of theory are logically independent. It does not refer to the laws of nature, the laws that science aims to describe. According to natural law moral theory, the moral standards that govern human behavior are, in some sense, objectively derived from the nature of human beings and the nature of the world. While being logically independent of natural law legal theory, the two theories intersect.
And if species are natural kinds, this is an example of particulars changing their kinds. But this account of species is consistent with the view that species have essences (LaPorte 1997, 2004, 11–12). (As a matter of fact, most essentialists accept that an object's kind is essential to it. The best known of the semantic arguments as applied to natural kind terms is Putnam's Twin Earth thought experiment (see Section 1.3.1). Putnam asks us to imagine that elsewhere in the universe there is a planet exactly like Earth in virtually all respects, which we may call ‘Twin Earth’.
Mill's descriptivism implies that for each natural kind term there is an associated set of properties such that for some item to be a member of that natural kind, it should possess those properties—these are properties that describe objects belonging to the kind in question. The best known of the semantic arguments as applied to natural kind terms is Putnam's Twin Earth thought experiment (see Section 1.3.1). Putnam asks us to imagine that elsewhere in the universe there is a planet exactly like Earth in virtually all respects, which we may call ‘Twin Earth’.
Compare organic food. The term “natural” is applied to many foods, but does not have a consistent meaning. “ Natural foods ” and “ all natural foods ” are widely used terms in food labeling and marketing with a variety of definitions, most of which are vague. The term is often assumed to imply foods that are minimally processed and all of whose ingredients are natural products (in the chemist's sense of that term), but the lack of standards in most jurisdictions means that the term assures nothing. In some countries, the term “natural” is defined and enforced.