Generalizations. Generally speaking, an “associate”-level job suggests a worker who can be promoted from the associate level to something fuller. Associate workers usually belong to the organization’s staff or have the chance to be promoted into it. A “staff”-level job generally suggests a typical in-house employee for an organization as opposed to an outside worker.
Familiarity information: ASSOCIATE used as a noun is uncommon. • ASSOCIATE (adjective). The adjective ASSOCIATE has 1 sense: 1. having partial rights and privileges or subordinate status. Familiarity information: ASSOCIATE used as an adjective is very rare. 
Experience level is one area that differentiates an entry-level engineer from an associate engineer. An entry-level position will be offered to a graduate fresh out of college. An associate engineer usually needs two or three years of experience. The best approach to getting a job as an associate engineer is to work your way up within your first company.
An associate degree is an undergraduate academic degree awarded by community colleges, junior colleges, technical colleges, bachelor's degree –granting colleges, and universities upon completion of a course of study usually lasting two years. Time requirements [edit]. An associate degree is awarded to students who complete 90 quarter credit hours or 60 semester credit hours of schooling. Typically, on a full-time schedule, this requires two years to complete.
1 Associate degree: Two years to a career or a jump start to a bachelor’s degree – More information on associate degrees provided by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Time requirements [edit]. An associate degree is awarded to students who complete 90 quarter credit hours or 60 semester credit hours of schooling. Typically, on a full-time schedule, this requires two years to complete.
This may vary slightly depending on the institution and location, but an associate’s degree usually takes two years to complete full time. In the US this equates to 60 credit hours as opposed to the 120 hours required for a bachelor’s degree – which takes about four years to complete full time. It typically takes two years full-time to complete an associate’s degree. For some students, an associate’s degree provides preparation for a bachelor’s degree, while for others it’s a qualification in its own right, helping to improve employment prospects compared to only having completed a secondary-level education.
Many associate’s degree students choose to study part-time, which of course means the degree will take longer to complete. On the other hand, it’s also possible to take a “fast-track” course, working at an accelerated pace and even studying during the vacations to complete the degree in a shorter time. It typically takes two years full-time to complete an associate’s degree. For some students, an associate’s degree provides preparation for a bachelor’s degree, while for others it’s a qualification in its own right, helping to improve employment prospects compared to only having completed a secondary-level education.
Associate Degrees. Associate-level programs offer different degrees for a variety of careers. These 2-year programs may provide the necessary training to prepare students for entry-level positions in fields like nursing, graphic design and other vocational areas. 
The associates degree means you have completed a two year program of study. Typically there is the associates of arts (AA), the associates in science (AS), and the associates in applied science (AAS). For more information about an associates degree click on the related links section indicates below. Associates Degree   An Associates Degree is a two-year college degree. A Bachelors Degree, a four-year degree, is what's considered a full college degree.   Other defi … nitions:   * Granted after satisfactory completion of a two-year program.