Degenerative disc disease is diagnosed with a medical history and physical exam. Your doctor will ask about your symptoms, injuries or illnesses, any previous treatment, and habits and activities that may be causing pain in the neck, arms, back, buttock, or leg. 
Degenerative disc disease in the lumbar spine, or lower back, refers to a syndrome in which a compromised disc causes low back pain. Although there is a slight genetic component to individuals who suffer from DDD, the true cause is probably multifactorial. 
Nearly everyone shows some signs of wear and tear on the spinal discs as they age. Not everyone, however, will have symptoms described as degenerative disc disease. Not actually a disease, degenerative disc disease refers to a condition in which pain is caused from a damaged disc. A wide range of symptoms and severity is associated with this condition
The discs act as shock absorbers for the spine, allowing it to flex, bend, and twist. Degenerative disc disease can take place throughout the spine, but it most often occurs in the discs in the lower back (lumbar region) and the neck (cervical region). The changes in the discs can result in back or neck pain and/or: As we age, our spinal discs break down, or degenerate, which may result in degenerative disc disease in some people. These age-related changes include: 1  The loss of fluid in your discs. 2  This reduces the ability of the discs to act as shock absorbers and makes them less flexible.
Yes. The phrase degenerative changes in the spine refers to osteoarthritis of the spine. Osteoarthritis is the most common form of arthritis. Doctors may also refer to it as degenerative arthritis or degenerative joint disease. Osteoarthritis in the spine most commonly occurs in the neck and lower back. 
Degenerative disc disease is one of the most common causes of low back pain and neck pain, and also one of the most misunderstood. 1  See The Degenerative Cascade of a Degenerating Disc. Disc degeneration is actually a natural part of aging, and over time all people will exhibit changes in their discs consistent with a greater or lesser degree of degeneration. However, not all people will develop symptoms. In fact, degenerative disc disease is quite variable in its nature and severity.
Degenerative disc disease (DDD) is characterized by the ongoing deterioration of the intervertebral discs of the spine. These cushioning discs are composed of a gelatinous core (called the nucleus pulposus) and exterior cartilage shell (called the annulus fibrosus). Thoracic spinal deterioration refers to degenerative disc disease that affects the middle of the back between the shoulders and the small of the back. Degeneration in this section of the spine is relatively uncommon.
Lumbar degenerative disc disease refers to the symptoms of lower back pain and/or radiating pain, numbness or weakness in the legs stemming from a degenerated spinal disc. Cervical Degenerative Disc Disease Video. Neck pain and stiffness may be the result of cervical degenerative disc disease. Disc degeneration is actually a natural part of aging, and over time all people will exhibit changes in their discs consistent with a greater or lesser degree of degeneration. However, not all people will develop symptoms. In fact, degenerative disc disease is quite variable in its nature and severity.
People who are obese are also more likely to have symptoms of degenerative disc disease. A sudden (acute) injury leading to a herniated disc (such as a fall) may also begin the degeneration process. As the space between the vertebrae gets smaller, there is less padding between them, and the spine becomes less stable. As we age, our spinal discs break down, or degenerate, which may result in degenerative disc disease in some people. These age-related changes include: 1  The loss of fluid in your discs. 2  This reduces the ability of the discs to act as shock absorbers and makes them less flexible.
Degenerative disc disease is a disease of aging, an age related disease. Over the years and decades, the repeated daily stresses on the spine and occasional minor, unnoticed injuries, as well as major ones, begin to take their toll. For most people the gradual degeneration of the discs is not a problem. However, in some cases it eventually causes severe, chronic and debilitating discogenic pain. Back specialists refer to pain caused by a damaged intervertebral disc as discogenic pain. Degenerative disc disease refers to the degeneration of at least one of the intervertebral discs of the spinal column.