Because Glyphosate is a broad-spectrum, non-selective systemic herbicide, it will kill virtually all types of plants but is formulated for grasses, sedges, broad-leaf weeds, and woody plants. You will find this chemical in products such as Roundup. 
Chemical family (dicamba) benzoic acid; (glyphosate) none generally accepted. diflufenzopyr + dicamba (Distinct). Rate 0.25 to 0.5 lb ae/A diflufenzopyr + 0.063 to 0.125 lb ae/A dicamba (2.0 to 4.0 oz/A Distinct). Time Apply when weeds are small and actively growing. Chemical family (diflufenzopyr) semicarbazone; (dicamba) benzoic acid. flumioxazin (Valor SX). Rate 0.064 to 0.128 lb ai/A (2 to 4 oz/A Valor SX). Time Apply in the fall or early spring in combination with a burndown herbicide such as glyphosate to control emerged weeds.
Chemical family Phosphinic acid. glyphosate (several products). Rate 0.28 to 0.38 lb ae/A + 0.5% nonionic surfactant, or 0.47 to 0.56 lb ae/A for grass in boot stage or for broadleaf weeds that have bolted. Time Apply on land to be fallowed before seeding crops, or apply before crop emerges. Chemical family (diflufenzopyr) semicarbazone; (dicamba) benzoic acid. flumioxazin (Valor SX). Rate 0.064 to 0.128 lb ai/A (2 to 4 oz/A Valor SX). Time Apply in the fall or early spring in combination with a burndown herbicide such as glyphosate to control emerged weeds.
Glyphosate is formulated as an isopropylamine salt of N-(phosphonomethyl)-glycine, a diammonium salt of glyphosate, or a trimethylsulfonium salt of glyphosate. Glufosinate is the sulfonium salt of glyphosate, and it is formulated as this salt. 
Chemical family (glyphosate) none generally accepted; (2,4-D) phenoxy acetic acid. carfentrazone (Aim EC). Rate 0.008 to 0.031 lb ai/A (0.5 to 2 fl oz/A Aim EC or EW). Time Apply to actively growing weeds up to 4 inches tall, and to rosettes less than 3 inches across. Chemical family (diflufenzopyr) semicarbazone; (dicamba) benzoic acid. flumioxazin (Valor SX). Rate 0.064 to 0.128 lb ai/A (2 to 4 oz/A Valor SX). Time Apply in the fall or early spring in combination with a burndown herbicide such as glyphosate to control emerged weeds.
Glyphosate is generally less persistent in water than in soil, with 12 to 60-day persistence observed in Canadian ponds, yet persistence of over a year has been recorded in the sediments of U.S. ponds. The half-life of glyphosate in water is between 12 days to 10 weeks. In various freshwater fish species, pure glyphosate has a 48-hour lethal concentration (LC 50) of greater than 24 mg/L to 140 mg/L, while marketed glyphosate formulations can range from 1.3 mg/L to greater than 1000 mg/L.
In addition to its use as an herbicide, glyphosate is also used for crop desiccation (siccation) to increase harvest yield and, as a result of desiccation, to increase sucrose concentration in sugarcane before harvest. The half-life of glyphosate in water is between 12 days to 10 weeks. In various freshwater fish species, pure glyphosate has a 48-hour lethal concentration (LC 50) of greater than 24 mg/L to 140 mg/L, while marketed glyphosate formulations can range from 1.3 mg/L to greater than 1000 mg/L.
By Dr. Mercola In recent weeks, we've learned some very disturbing truths about glyphosate, the active ingredient in Monsanto's broad-spectrum herbicide Roundup, which is generously doused on genetically engineered (GE) Roundup Ready crops. Interestingly, certain microbes in your body actually break down glyphosate, which is a good thing. However, a byproduct of this action is ammonia, and children with autism tend to have significantly higher levels of ammonia in their blood than the general population. Ditto for those with Alzheimer's disease.
Roundup brand products and glyphosate-based herbicides are important tools in the toolboxes of farmers and homeowners in controlling weeds because they can complement other approaches. A properly applied herbicide, such as glyphosate, can be an excellent tool to help control weeds in a wide variety of situations. 
Glyphosate's mode of action as an herbicide is to inhibit a plant enzyme involved in the synthesis of the aromatic amino acids: tyrosine, tryptophan, and phenylalanine. The half-life of glyphosate in water is between 12 days to 10 weeks. In various freshwater fish species, pure glyphosate has a 48-hour lethal concentration (LC 50) of greater than 24 mg/L to 140 mg/L, while marketed glyphosate formulations can range from 1.3 mg/L to greater than 1000 mg/L.