Ingestion of glutamic acid (MSG) is known to produce a variety of adverse reactions in some people. These reactions, although seemingly dissimilar, are no more diverse than reactions found as side effects of certain neurological drugs. We do not know why some people experience reactions and others do not. We do not know whether MSG “causes” the condition underlying the reaction, or whether the underlying condition is simply aggravated by the ingestion of MSG. We only know that the reactions listed below are sometimes caused or exacerbated by MSG.
We do not know why some people experience reactions and others do not. We do not know whether MSG causes the condition underlying the reaction, or whether the underlying condition is simply aggravated by the ingestion of MSG. We only know that the reactions listed below are sometimes caused or exacerbated by MSG. Collected Reports of Adverse Reac tions Caused by MSG. Ingestion of processed free glutamic acid (MSG) is known to produce a variety of adverse reactions in some people. These reactions, although seemingly dissimilar, are no more diverse than reactions found as side effects of certain neurotrophic (neurological) drugs.
Monosodium glutamate (MSG is the sodium salt of the amino acid glutamate). Glutamate, in addition to serving as one of the amino acids found in proteins, is also an excitatory amino acid and activates other neurons in the brain by binding to a specific type of glutamate receptors.
Again, it bears repeating that anything that causes toxicity, leaky gut syndrome, inflammation and swelling, as does dairy, chocolate, MSG, allergy, hypothyroidism and candidiasis, also causes neck, back and joint stiffness and pain and fibromyalgia. Correct the underlying causes to get the best results. 
MSG Can Cause These Symptoms. Abdominal pain, achiness, angina, back pain, bone pain, chest pain, cramps, foot pain, fibromyalgia, hand pain, headache, jaw pain, joint pain, migraine, neck pain, numbness, stiffness, swelling, tightness, more. 
TRIGGERS. The MSG-reaction is a reaction to free glutamic acid that occurs in food as a consequence of manufacture. MSG-sensitive people do not react to protein (which contains bound glutamic acid) or any of the minute amounts of free glutamic acid that might be found in unadulterated, unfermented, food. 
Glutamate (Glutamic acid) is the most prominent neurotransmitter in the body, and it is the main excitatory neurotransmitter, being present in over 50% of nervous tissue. Glutamate was initially discovered to be a neurotransmitter in insect studies in the early 1960s. 
Glutamate is a neurotransmitter in the brain. Glutamate is a type of neurotransmitter, which is a brain chemical that either excites or inhibits the function of neurons. Neurotransmitters have an especially strong impact on mood, behavior and the perception of sensations such as pain. High levels of glutamate in the brain are linked to increased sensations of pain and chronic pain syndromes such as fibromyalgia. Reducing glutamate levels helps to reduce the perception of pain.
GABA Inhibition of Glutamate. Wind-up Pain is the Hallmark of the Disease of Chronic Pain. It is precipitated by activation of normally dormant NMDA receptors blocked by Magnesium in the natural state. NMDA receptors are located throughout he CNS and serve the normal function of killing damaged neurons so that they can be replaced with new neurons.