This is another varies with the individual bird and the breed answer. Some chickens lay an egg almost every day, others every 1.5 to 2 days. Younger hens (called pullets if less than one year old) will lay smaller eggs at larger intervals until they reach maturity. For backyard/pet chickens, the peak laying time is the first 3 to 4 years of age. Again, this can vary greatly between individual birds and breeds. Hens don't have a definite end to egg-laying, but eggs become fewer and at greater intervals as they age.
A rooster is necessary to have fertilized eggs, but a hen will lay eggs even if no rooster is present. Incubation time for fertilized eggs is 21 days. Days 1-18 require an internal temperature of 99.5 F and a humidity of 50-60%. Days 18-21 require an internal temp of 99.5 and a humidity of 70-80%. She will lay an egg a day at approximately the same time. It takes about 20 hours for an egg to be made inside her body. That's why she is limited to one egg per day. It takes 20 hours to make an egg.
Hen usually start laying at about 5 to 7 months old and reach peak egg production at 11 months old. The number of eggs laid will drop at about 18 to 24 months old but some birds will continue to lay up to a year after that. Egg production will also drop when the hen molts or if nutritional needs are not met. In each of these parts 3 chickens will lay a third of the number of eggs (so 1 egg). Thus: 3 chickens will lay 1 egg in 1/2 of a day. Then it follows that 3 chickens will lay 2 eggs in 1 day. Now, if we allow those 3 chickens three times as long (3 days), they will produce 6 eggs. 3 chickens will lay 6 eggs in 3 days. One chicken will lay 1/3 of that number of eggs (1/3 * 6 = 2 eggs) in 3 days
Chickens never lay more than one egg per day. As a rule, chickens lay in the morning, but each day a little later. Sometimes the last egg of a series is produced in the early afternoon. When it gets too late, they take the next day off. My five commercial hybrids will sometimes lay for a series of 30 days or more. All chickens lay eggs in a series-never more than one per day. If the eggs are not collected, and a sufficient number of eggs are allowed to remain in the nest, the hen may stop laying eggs and start brooding. When the hen leaves the nest after laying an egg, it cools which suspends the development of the embryo inside.
Chickens usually don't simply stop laying eggs when they get to a certain age, but they will lay fewer as they get older. That said, most laying breeds will lay more or less productively in backyard terms for five or seven years. 
1st your chickens have to be of age to lay and some breeds take longer age is usually around 4-5 months If you have babies this will have to be a waiting game for a while since they are still to young. You need to give thes birds some scratch feed as well plus grit or oyster shell Laying pellets is not enough. 
Most hens will start laying between 5-7 months of age. They will lay best at 1 to 2 years of age. All pullets (female chicken under 1 year of age) lay small eggs at first and after a while will lay larger eggs. Younger hens will lay 1 egg every 3-4 days. A hen 30 weeks old can lay 2 eggs every 3 days. Some have been known to lay an egg a day. All breeds have different laying abilities. For more answers to you poultry questions, we have many books and also a video.
A chicken may take from about 5 minutes to an hour to lay her egg. She will lay an egg a day at approximately the same time. It takes about 20 hours for an egg to be made inside her body. That's why she is limited to one egg per day. It takes 20 hours to make an egg.
Fall is a normal time of year. Fall is a normal time of year for chickens to stop laying eggs as the sunlight decreases and they molt, but 7 months is a long time. She's not that old. Another common reason is dietary, though it sounds as if your other chicken is laying. 