Pectoralis Major. These are the two large chest muscles primarily the pushing muscles of the upper body. It makes up most of the upper body. As you raise and lower your body during a push-up, the pectoralis major is doing most of the work to raise and lower your body. Deltoids. Push-ups are performed in a prone position, which can help develop a good posture. Military personnel and athletes do push-ups as part of exercise regimen that helps strengthen the upper back and shoulder while providing stability to the torso, and promote muscle endurance and overall fitness.
Well, push-ups can work different muscles in your arm depending on how you position your hands. Pull-ups work strictly biceps. Honestly, 20 push ups should not be a problem by any means. Are 20 push ups in a row good for my age. What about 10 pull ups in a row. Don't know if its a lot. My heart beats to fast and usually hard to do more. Update: I could do about 20 pushups and about 10 pullups in a row. Is that good for someone thats not in high school yet. I try to do them eachday.
Weeks 4 to 6: Hold for 30 seconds in the push-up position in week 4, then hold for 30 seconds in a knuckle-push-up position in week 5. Finally, in week 6, do slow-motion push-ups, maintaining perfect posture. Take 2 seconds to descend, hold 2 seconds, and push yourself up for 2 seconds. Work up to 10 at this speed. Outfielder Ted Williams did 50 to 100 fingertip push-ups a day, and he was the Barry Bonds of his era. The great boxers Marciano, Ali, Foreman did push-ups by the hundreds. Today's athletes don't do push-ups in the same quantities, but they make up for it in quality, not to mention variety.
Push-ups exercise the pectoral muscles, triceps, and anterior deltoids, with ancillary benefits to the rest of the deltoids, serratus anterior, coracobrachialis and the midsection as a whole. While the push-up primarily targets the muscles of the chest, arms, and shoulders, support required from other muscles results in a wider range of muscles integrated into the exercise. Military recruits will often perform pushups as part of their physical training.
Depends on how you do your push-ups. Diffrent hand placement and angle make a diffrance. But standerd push-ups work a lot of upper body muscles, some more than others, again, depending on how you do them. Figure push-ups work most upper body to a certain degree.
2. Repeat your set of push-ups as many times every other day at the maximum frequency you can comfortably do. You will want to work up to doing 10 sets a day, but, for starters, 3 is probably a good number to shoot for. If you punish yourself now, you will not keep up your program for very long. 1 If you can do more than 15 push-ups in a row slowly and with perfect form, then you need added resistance. 2  You can do this by adding sufficient weight to make the push up more difficult. 3  You can fill a backpack with weight to make the push up more difficult, and/or you can vary the push up routine.
2. One of the most underrated benefits of doing push ups is the stretch it provides to your biceps and back muscles. As you lower yourself to the floor, your back muscles are effectively stretched, and as you push yourself to the starting position your biceps obtain a full stretch. 
Visit the Fitness Video Library. A push-up not only helps you to get a stronger upper body, but also a stronger midsection. It incorporates the stabilization muscles of your core, combining an upper-body pushing movement with a plank. It is, in fact, one of the best and most basic exercises for your midsection. To further stimulate the muscles of your core, try push-up plyometrics. Plyometrics are quick, explosive types of movement. To do a plyometric push-up, once your sternum touches the floor, hold your position and breathe for about three seconds, then perform an explosive push upward.
Push-ups are one of the most basic exercises that are beneficial to build a strong core and upper body using only your body and a flat surface. Push-ups are basic strength-building total body exercises that strengthen the upper body and improve the core strength. Push-ups are performed in a prone position, which can help develop a good posture. Military personnel and athletes do push-ups as part of exercise regimen that helps strengthen the upper back and shoulder while providing stability to the torso, and promote muscle endurance and overall fitness.