Assisted Living Executive Director Tasks. 1  Develop and maintain relationships with patients and families. 2  Plan, direct and set the strategic direction of the assisted living program. 3  Oversee staff operations, business planning and budget development. 1 Plan, direct and set the strategic direction of the assisted living program. 2  Oversee staff operations, business planning and budget development. 3  Serve as a member of senior management team. 4  Direct the management and support staff in quality and compassionate care of patients.
Read More... Assisted living executive directors work primarily in nursing homes and retirement communities and are responsible for the day-to-day operations of their facilities. They direct and manage staff, ranging from administrative staff and housekeeping to kitchen staff, nurses, ground staff, and many others. 1 Plan, direct and set the strategic direction of the assisted living program. 2  Oversee staff operations, business planning and budget development. 3  Serve as a member of senior management team. 4  Direct the management and support staff in quality and compassionate care of patients.
Work Environment. Executive directors work in assisted living facilities that can house 40 or more residents., depending on the specific facility. Most assisted living facilities serve older adults, but some also help younger individuals with disabilities. Generally, executive directors of assisted living facilities have at least a bachelor's degree in a health care or management-related field, but many have graduate degrees in their respective areas.
Assisted Living Director Salary. (United States). The average salary for an Assisted Living Director is $56,549 per year. Pay for this job does not change much by experience, with the most experienced earning only a bit more than the least. A skill in Budget Management is associated with high pay for this job. $39,394 - $77,148
Executive directors of assisted living facilities work to ensure the effective overall operation of their residences. They fall under the Bureau of Labor Statistics' category Medical and Health Services Managers.. As on May 2010, the average salary for those in this category was $84,270 per year. Generally, executive directors of assisted living facilities have at least a bachelor's degree in a health care or management-related field, but many have graduate degrees in their respective areas.
Assisted Living Executive Director Salary. Assisted Living Executive Director average salary is $-, median salary is $- with a salary range from $- to $-. Assisted Living Executive Director salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Assisted Living Executive Director salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only. They are presented as is and updated regularly. 