Chios belongs to the Northeastern Aegean islands. South of Lesvos, it is one of the most beautiful islands of Greece. Chios is located very close to Asia Minor; the Canal of Chios runs between the two coasts. The island has a surface area of about 904km² and is inhabited by approximately 53,000 people.
The island is separated from Turkey by the Çeşme çeşme. Strait chios is notable for its exports of mastic gum and its nickname Is the mastic. Island tourist attractions include its medieval villages and the-11th century monastery Of Nea, moni A Unesco World Heritage. site Chios rejoined the rest of independent Greece after the First Balkan War (1912). The Greek Navy liberated Chios in November 1912 in a hard fought but brief amphibious operation. Turkey recognized Greece's annexation of Chios and the other Aegean islands by the Treaty of London (1913) .
Chios, the island that wakes senses up, is located in east Aegean sea, between Samos and Mytilene. Right across Chios and very close to it, are the shores of Minor Asia. Chios, along with Inousses and Psara, constitute the prefecture of Chios. It is the fifth in size island of Greece. It has an extend of 842 sq.km and it is considered a hilly island. Chios impresses visitors with its endless lacy shores.
E-Mail. Welcome to CHIOS ! In Chios Guide, you will find all the necessary information about Chios. Chios Island in Greece is the most visited island of the North-Eastern Aegean Islands, nevertheless it still keeps its beauty and calm places and Chios Guide offers you a holiday in this beautiful place. 
A mastic-scented island with fascinating history. Much as Chios is famous for its mastic, it is not the only “magic” one can find on this island. Alongside its rich history starting from the Neolithic Age and including adventures with Saracene pirates and the Turks during the Greek Revolution, Chios also claims to be the birthplace of Homer. 
Through chios.com someone can attempt a visit to Chios island of Greece and travel around the picturesque villages and the beautiful, sun-drenched coastlines. Chios is a hospitable island and his residents are polite and peaceful, ready to welcome with love and kindness every new visitor. 
The principal town of the island and seat of the municipality is Chios town. Locals refer to Chios town as Chora (χώρα literally means land or country, but usually refers to the capital or a settlement at the highest point of a Greek island). Chios rejoined the rest of independent Greece after the First Balkan War (1912). The Greek Navy liberated Chios in November 1912 in a hard fought but brief amphibious operation. Turkey recognized Greece's annexation of Chios and the other Aegean islands by the Treaty of London (1913) .
Chios island is crescent or kidney shaped, 50 kilometres (31 mi) long from north to south, 29 kilometres (18 mi) at its widest, and covers an area of 842 square kilometres (325 sq mi). The terrain is mountainous and arid, with a ridge of mountains running the length of the island. Chios rejoined the rest of independent Greece after the First Balkan War (1912). The Greek Navy liberated Chios in November 1912 in a hard fought but brief amphibious operation. Turkey recognized Greece's annexation of Chios and the other Aegean islands by the Treaty of London (1913) .
Travel guide to Chios, Greece. Chios in Greece is a large, family island with relaxing atmosphere. Located on the eastern side of the Aegean Sea, very close to the Turkish coasts, Chios is connected by ferry to Cesme, a port close to Izmir Turkey, serving as a ferry connection between the two countries. Things to see and do. The island of Chios is one of the Greek islands of the Aegean Sea and it belongs to the Eastern Aegean islands group. Chios island is located at the Eastern Aegean Sea, very close to the coasts of Turkey. It has small family beach resorts and large secluded beach