While you may understand what will happen to your body after death, your family might be clueless about what it is they're supposed to do. In most cases, your next of kin, spouse, executor of your will, or hospital facility will need to immediately get in touch with the medical program after your death. 1 Remember that you may be able to donate your organs even if you couldn't donate your body. 2  While the decision to harvest suitable organs will be made at the time of your death, you should fill out paperwork and inform your family in advance.
Body donation is the donation of the whole body after death for medical research and education. For years, only medical schools accepted whole bodies for donation, but now private programs also accept donors. Body donation is useful for understanding the human body and for advancing science. Any person wishing to donate their body may be required, but not always, to make prior arrangements with the local medical school, university, or body donation program before death.
Understand what happens when you donate your body to science. Before you die, you will have chosen a facility or program and filled out the necessary paperwork. After your die, someone will contact the facility or program which will usually collect your body. 1 Remember that you may be able to donate your organs even if you couldn't donate your body. 2  While the decision to harvest suitable organs will be made at the time of your death, you should fill out paperwork and inform your family in advance.
The first point of contact for anyone interested in body donation is the Human Tissue Authority, which refers potential donors to regional centres who handle permission forms and receive bodies after death. Arrangements for potential brain donors differ, and the nearest brain bank should be first point of enquiry. Britain's brain banks are perilously low on supplies, according to a report last month from UK research scientists. More donors are urgently needed if the causes of, and new treatments for, neurological diseases including dementia, autism and Alzheimer's are to be found.
BioGift is a medical research and education full body donation program, which helps you to donate your body to science. BioGift does not perform any medical research or education; we simply help people interested in donating your body to science. Age, disease, or state of health does not eliminate an individual from being a donor, but may affect what tissues can be used from the donated body. Medical research and education criteria for donation are less stringent than for transplant donation.
Body donation is the donation of the whole body after death for medical research and education. Body donation is useful for understanding the human body, for advancing scientific understandings and finding cures for disease and other undesirable medical conditions. 
View. comments. Consciousness may continue even after death, scientists now believe. Research into 'near-death' experiences has revealed that awareness and the mind may continue to exist after the brain has ceased to function and the body is clinically dead. Scientists at the University of Southampton conducted a four-year study of more than 2,000 patients who had suffered cardiac arrests. 
Eventually the body is medically cremated after all studies are completed. However, only a partial amount of cremated remains are returned to the family within six weeks of the donation for closure (the part of the body not used for medical research and education). Age, disease, or state of health does not eliminate an individual from being a donor, but may affect what tissues can be used from the donated body. Medical research and education criteria for donation are less stringent than for transplant donation.
After death body donation registration: If death has already occurred, call LifeLegacy immediately as time is of the essence: 1-888-774-4438. Please have the person most familiar with the medical and social history of the prospective donor to be available at the time of your call for a medical screening interview. 
Supporting Medical Advancements Through Whole Body Donation. MedCure is the leading non-transplant tissue bank devoted to compassionate, ethical services that connect whole-body donors to medical research and education while providing innovation and opportunity for scientific medical advancements. 