4. Sew the fronts together along the center front line. From the bottom of the zipper down, sew with a regular stitch. From the bottom of the zipper and up, use a basting stitch. The point here is to baste your fly shut. A short stitch will make it more difficult to rip out later. 
Close zipper to be sure that it is positioned correctly and evenly and that the tops of your shorts meet. Step 6 | With the zipper closed position the Fly Shield from the inside of the shorts aligning the folded edge with the topstitching of the Fly Facing. Pin in place and flip garment to the right side. Baste along the zipper through all layers. Remove pins, open zipper and stitch along the zipper. Step 7 | Place a bar tack across the bottom of the fly catching both the Fly Facing and Fly Shield. With the zipper open stitch across each side of the zipper tape. Trim the excess zipper tape even with the top of the shorts. Do not cut the zipper tapes without first stitching across the zipper tape! That’s it, that wasn’t so bad, was it.
Spread work flat with right side up. 1  Working from the right side, pin zipper in place along topstitching line. 2  Topstitch, removing pins as you go along, leaving long tails of thread at the bottom. 3  On inside, unpin folded-back facing. 4  Remove basting at fly edge and press. Spread work flat with right side up. 1  Working from the right side, pin zipper in place along topstitching line. 2  Topstitch, removing pins as you go along, leaving long tails of thread at the bottom. 3  On inside, unpin folded-back facing. 4  Bring thread ends to inside and knot.
Pin into place. 5 Using your sewing machines zipper foot, sew a line of stitching. 6 Turn your work wrong side up and pin the other side of the zipper tape to the ‘ right ‘ extension. Machine sew into place. 7 Working on the right of your fashion fabric, we now need to top stitch to get the fly front finish. 
So you need to lay the fly shield under the zipper as you top stitch. You want the catch the long edge of the shield as you topstitch. And your topstitching should be between the teeth of the zipper and the center front seam, which is where the red line is on this close-up. Now it should look like this. The fabric to the right of the zipper is the fly shield. Turn the zipper onto the left side of the fly extension, right side down. 
5. Spread work flat with right side up. 1  Working from the right side, pin zipper in place along topstitching line. 2  Topstitch, removing pins as you go along, leaving long tails of thread at the bottom. 3  On inside, unpin folded-back facing. 4  Bring thread ends to inside and knot. 5  Remove basting at fly edge and press
Step 6: Pin the zipper in place as shown and then stitch it in place close to the zipper teeth using a zipper foot. Turn the zipper over so the front side of the zipper is revealed. Now stitch the zipper again 1/8” from the fold. This stitch will show when the zipper is opened, so it should be carefully done. Mark the position of the zipper base or end with a pin. Next, mark the final stitching line with chalk or a marking pen, so it is 1 ¼” from the center front seam. Mark the bottom curve as well making sure to avoid the zipper base. Following the marked line, sew the final stitching line.
Place the unsewn side of the zipper tape to the right side of the fly and pin. 8. Using a zipper foot, stitch the unsewn side of the zipper to the right seam allowance. Again stitch only to the seam allowance and not through to the front of the pants. 9. Switch back to your regular sewing foot. Fold the fly back toward to the right and baste in place to secure