Shel Silverstein was a unique writer with many artistic talents. While generally best known for his poetry and literature for children, he was also a cartoonist, composer, lyricist, and folksinger. He was born Sheldon Allan Silverstein on September 25, 1930, in Chicago, Illinois. He developed his writing style and skills as a boy. He served with the U.S. military forces in Japan and Korea during the 1950s, where he also worked as a cartoonist for the military newspaper, the Pacific Stars and Stripes. After his military service, Silverstein became a cartoonist for a magazine.
Confidence votes 2.6K. Shel Silverstein was self-taught and wrote in a colloquial, down-to-earth style that said a lot in a few words. He was able to write in various vernaculars, and occasionally wrote in very adult or obscenity-laced style, but is best known as an extraordinary children's writer. Some of his best-known and lasting poetry (for example, Messy Room, Where the Sidewalk Ends), was written for children. His poetry was deceptively simple, usually using a low vocabulary level and a conversational style. Many of his poems were songs, and were sung by (and made famous by) different singer
You can love Shel Silverstein because he was a Renaissance Man, yet a Captain of the Unpretentious—singer-songwriter, screenwriter, playwright, cartoonist, iconic children’s author. You can love him because of his range. 
In the preface to her book entitled Shel Silverstein, Ruth K. MacDonald writes, Shel Silverstein is admittedly not a great technical poet; he will not be remembered for the advances he has made in the rhyme, meter, diction, or form of his poetry, which children have come to love so much. He developed his writing style and skills as a boy. He served with the U.S. military forces in Japan and Korea during the 1950s, where he also worked as a cartoonist for the military newspaper, the Pacific Stars and Stripes. After his military service, Silverstein became a cartoonist for a magazine.
by Mark Peters. Shel Silverstein—the late cartoonist, singer, songwriter, playwright, and mega-selling author of such classics as The Giving Tree and Where the Sidewalk Ends —didn't like children's literature. Spoon-feeding kids sugar-sweet stories just wasn't his style. The Silver Lining, Shel-Style. Silverstein's desire to reverse dopey endings and shiny-happy storylines may have been simply a result of his distaste for predictability. In his art as well as his life, Silverstein strenuously avoided well-trod paths.
Shel Silverstein Facts. Although Shel Silverstein (1932-1999) did not intend to become a children's writer, he is best known for his poetry for children. The Giving Tree, Where the Sidewalk Ends, and A Light in the Attic are some of his most notable works. Shel Silverstein was born in 1932 in Chicago, Illinois. 
He published a third collection of poems called Falling Up in 1996. Silverstein died of a heart attack on May 10, 1999, in Key West, Florida. Throughout my childhood, Shel Silverstein's Where the Sidewalk Ends and A Light in the Attic were among my very favorite books to read. He developed his writing style and skills as a boy. He served with the U.S. military forces in Japan and Korea during the 1950s, where he also worked as a cartoonist for the military newspaper, the Pacific Stars and Stripes. After his military service, Silverstein became a cartoonist for a magazine.
Best Answer: I don't know any websites but I just wrote a paragraph on his writing style too. Here is what I found out: The poet, Shel Silverstein, has a very unique and interesting writing style. Even though Silverstein’s poems are meant to be written for children but many of them are not appropriate. 