ERP, or Enterprise Resource Planning Software, is business software that integrates and runs all aspects of your business – everything from traceability of raw materials, management and optimization of inventory, production planning and scheduling, to financial controls and even customer relationship management. Knowing the full benefits that an ERP system can have for your business is the first step to cutting costs and improving ROI. Narrowing down vendors, selecting the right software and properly implementing it are the next steps.
It integrates all departments and functions across a company in a single computer system that is able to serve all those different department's particular needs. An ERP system also automates business processes by placing them into a useful format that is standardized and common for the whole organization. Moreover it could even be used between their suppliers and customers.
Conclusion. Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) can provide a lot of benefits to organization such as lower cost, increase level of data consistency, enable different departments such as Marketing, Distribution, and Manufacturing etc. to share information together, increasing ability to do e-business. 
Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) is an enterprise-wide information system that facilitates the flow of information and coordinates all resources and activities within the organization. An Executive Whitepaper Presented by Fourth Generation Software, makers of February, 2011. ERP is an enterprise-wide information system that facilitates the flow of information and coordinates all resources and activities within the business organization. Functions typically supported by the system include manufacturing, inventory, shipping, logistics, distribution, invoicing, and accounting.
Enterprise resource planning (ERP) is business management software—typically a suite of integrated applications—that a company can use to collect, store, manage and interpret data from many business activities, including: 1  Product planning, cost. 2  Manufacturing or service delivery. 
ERP is short for e nterprise resource planning. Enterprise resource planning (ERP) is business process management software that allows an organization to use a system of integrated applications to manage the business and automate many back office functions related to technology, services and human resources. Depending on your organization's size and needs there are a number of enterprise resource planning software vendors to choose from in the large enterprise, mid-market and the small business ERP market.
Fortunately,, there is an answer to this dilemma in the form of modern Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems, which can help small, midsized and enterprise businesses reduce costs and become smarter, leaner, and more agile organisations. One final, but important note to consider when determining the right ERP solution for your business: good ERP systems provide a strong foundation for further industry-specific and vertical customization – for example for manufacturing, distribution, retail, and public sector, to name a few.
ERP stands for Enterprise Resource Planning. ERP is an enterprise-wide information system that facilitates the flow of information and coordinates all resources and activities within the business organization. Functions typically supported by the system include manufacturing, inventory, shipping, logistics, distribution, invoicing, and accounting.
Microsoft Dynamics enterprise resource planning (ERP) software gives your people the tools they need to connect and manage your entire business, from financial and supply chain management and from manufacturing to operations, with the insight you need to make smart decisions. Microsoft Dynamics ERP is sold and implemented by a global network of solution professionals called partners. Partners work with you to determine your specific needs, recommend the right solutions for you, and then help configure and implement the solution.
A proper ERP system selection methodology will deliver, within time and budget, an ERP system that is best fit for the business processes and the user in an enterprise.it is used in small scale Enterprises for implement their organization towards the MIS. 