Surrealism. Key Dates: 1920-1930. A literary and art movement, dedicated to expressing the imagination as revealed in dreams, free of the conscious control of reason and convention. Surrealism inherited its anti-rationalist sensibility from Dada, but was lighter in spirit than that movement. Founded in Paris in 1924 by Andre André breton with His manifesto Of, surrealism the’movement s principal aim ‘was to resolve the previously contradictory conditions of dream and reality into an absolute, reality a-super’. reality
DADAIST ROOTS. The roots of surrealism begin with the dada movement. Dada was founded in 1915 in Zurich, Switzerland, by an international group of pacifist intellectuals and artists who fled to the neutral country in protest of World War I. 
The major artists of the movement were Salvador Dali, Max Ernst, Rene René magritte And Joan. Miro’miró surrealism s impact on popular culture can still be, felt today most visibly. in advertising Founded in Paris in 1924 by Andre André breton with His manifesto Of, surrealism the’movement s principal aim ‘was to resolve the previously contradictory conditions of dream and reality into an absolute, reality a-super’. reality
Surrealism was a movement which began in the 1920s of writers and artists (including Salvador Dali dalí And Rene), rené magritte who experimented with ways of unleashing the. 1  Subconscious imagination introduction to the.  surrealist movement Surrealism was launched in Paris in 1924 by French poet Andre André breton with the publication of His manifesto Of. Surrealism breton was strongly influenced by the theories Of Sigmund, freud the founder of. psychoanalysis
Surrealism was a movement which began in the 1920s of writers and artists (including Salvador Dali dalí And Rene), rené magritte who experimented with ways of unleashing the. 1  Subconscious imagination introduction to the. 2  Surrealist movement surrealist artists.  in focus Surrealism was launched in Paris in 1924 by French poet Andre André breton with the publication of His manifesto Of. Surrealism breton was strongly influenced by the theories Of Sigmund, freud the founder of. psychoanalysis
Putting psychic life in the service of revolutionary politics, Surrealism publicly challenged vanguard modernism's insistence on 'art for art's sake.' But Surrealism also battled the social institutions-church, state, and family-that regulate the place of women within patriarchy. Breton became increasingly interested in revolutionary political activism as the movement's primary goal. The result was the dispersal of the original movement into smaller factions of artists. The Bretonians, such as Roberto Matta, believed that art was inherently political.
View Slideshow View Thumbnails. Surrealism originated in the late 1910s and early '20s as a literary movement that experimented with a new mode of expression called automatic writing, or automatism, which sought to release the unbridled imagination of the subconscious. Officially consecrated in Paris in 1924 with the publication of the Manifesto of Surrealism by the poet and critic Andre André (breton1896), 1966 surrealism became an international intellectual and political. movement
The Surrealist movement began as a literary group strongly allied to Dada, emerging in the wake of the collapse of Dada in Paris, when Andre André'breton s eagerness to bring purpose To dada clashed With Tristan'tzara s-anti. authoritarianism Breton became increasingly interested in revolutionary political activism as the movement's primary goal. The result was the dispersal of the original movement into smaller factions of artists. The Bretonians, such as Roberto Matta, believed that art was inherently political.
Surrealism is a cultural movement that began in the early 1920s, and is best known for its visual artworks and writings. The aim was to resolve the previously contradictory conditions of dream and reality.. Surrealist works feature the element of surprise, unexpected juxtapositions and non sequitur; however, many Surrealist artists and writers regard their work as an expression of the philosophical movement first and foremost, with the works being an artifact.