Average College Graduate Salaries. The average salary for college graduate jobs is $46,000. Average college graduate salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. The college graduate salary comparisons feature allows job seekers to get the information required to make important career decisions and negotiate salary ranges. For additional college graduate salary information, we recommend visiting Payscale.com.
According to NACE, the fields with the highest average starting salary in 2013 were engineering, computer science and business. Read on to see a salary comparison for graduates of undergraduate and graduate degree programs in a selection of fields. Additionally, accountants with bachelor's degrees earned average starting salaries of $53,000, more than elementary teachers; however, accountants with master's degrees earned an average wage of $62,700.
Photo by Timothy A. Clary/AFP/Getty Images. For the average graduate, going to college is a wonderfully profitable investment. The evidence is unambiguous. Even after subtracting tuition and all the years of foregone salary, the pay boost from a degree will still pay for itself, and then some. She found that, long-term, a college graduate at the 25 th percentile of income should expect to earn less than the typical working high school grad. Bloomberg Businessweek. The bottom line: A large minority of college grads earn like high school grads.
For example, in 2013 median earnings for young adults with a bachelor's degree were $48,500, compared with $23,900 for those without a high school credential, $30,000 for those with a high school credential, and $37,500 for those with an associate's degree. In other words, young adults with a bachelor's degree earned more than twice as much as those without a high school credential (103 percent more), 62 percent more than young adult high school completers, and 29 percent more than associate's degree holders.
When doing a salary comparison of a college grad to a nongrad, it is easy to see that the benefits of obtaining a degree are far more lucrative than not. Even though the cost of education continues to rise, the amount of money graduates make per year and over a lifetime is far greater than nongrads. Those with only some college make roughly $36,800. The difference becomes even more prevalent as a person gains more education. A Master's degree will garner an average of $62,300, while a Doctoral degree generates $89,400. Salary levels can be seen most dramatically in those without a high school diploma.
According to data from the 2000 U.S. Census, the average salary of U.S. workers between the ages of 21 and 64 with a bachelor's degree was $42,877, while those with a master's degree or higher earned an average salary of $55,242. Salaries for college graduates vary by subject, as well as the level of degree earned. For instance, according to a September 2013 report from the National Association of Colleges and Employers (NACE), graduates of bachelor's degree programs in elementary education earned an average starting salary of $39,000. Additionally, accountants with bachelor's degrees earned average starting salaries of $53,000, more than elementary teachers; however, accountants with master's degrees earned an average wage of $62,700.
Starting Salaries Up 1.2 Percent for Class of 2014 Grads The average starting salary for new college graduates earning bachelor’s degrees has increased 1.2 percent over last year, according to NACE’s April 2014 Salary Survey. Class of 2014 First-Destination Survey: Salaries for Liberal Arts/Humanities Majors Liberal arts/general studies majors earned the top average starting salary among Class of 2014 liberal arts graduates at the bachelor’s degree level, according to NACE’s Spring 2015 Salary Survey report.
We also compare the average salaries of graduates to those from other similar universities across Texas. Finally, since success isn't based solely on salary, we measured how happy our graduates are with their current jobs. Take a look. As part of the TTU Institutional Research survey, alumni selected their salary level from a range of salaries in $10k intervals. The highest category is $100,000 so that one extremely high salary will not distort the average. The average annual salary of all Texas Tech graduates is $54,519.