Ocean acidification is the ongoing decrease in the pH of the Earth 's oceans, caused by the uptake of carbon dioxide (CO 2) from the atmosphere. Ocean acidification has been called the evil twin of global warming  and the other CO 2 problem.
Ocean Acidification Definition. by Laurent Cousineau. (Montreal). Ocean acidification refers to the increase in acidity of sea water due to increasing concentrations of carbon dioxide. Essentially, not all of the carbon dioxide that mankind emits remains in the atmosphere. In fact, a fairly large portion enters the ocean and this reduces its pH which increases its acidity as a result. Consequently, ocean acidification may cause a reduction in the calcification rates of calcifying organisms which include corals, mollusks, algae and crustaceans.
Ocean acidification refers to a reduction in the pH of the ocean over an extended period time, caused primarily by uptake of carbon dioxide (CO 2) from the atmosphere. . The ocean absorbs about 30 percent of the CO 2 that is released in the atmosphere, and as levels of atmospheric CO 2 increase, so do the levels in the ocean. When CO 2 is absorbed by seawater, a series of chemical reactions occur resulting in the increased concentration of hydrogen ions.
As the carbon dioxide is absorbed, it reacts with the ocean water to form carbonic acid. This process is called ocean acidification. Over time, this acid causes the pH of the oceans to decrease, making ocean water more acidic. More About pH and Ocean Acidification. The term pH is a measure of acidity. If you've ever had an aquarium, you know that pH is important, and pH needs to be adjusted to optimal levels for your fish to thrive. The ocean has an optimal pH, too.
The ocean absorbs about 30 percent of the CO 2 that is released in the atmosphere, and as levels of atmospheric CO 2 increase, so do the levels in the ocean. . The ocean absorbs about 30 percent of the CO 2 that is released in the atmosphere, and as levels of atmospheric CO 2 increase, so do the levels in the ocean. When CO 2 is absorbed by seawater, a series of chemical reactions occur resulting in the increased concentration of hydrogen ions.
The Chemistry. When carbon dioxide (CO 2) is absorbed by seawater, chemical reactions occur that reduce seawater pH, carbonate ion concentration, and saturation states of biologically important calcium carbonate minerals. These chemical reactions are termed ocean acidification or OA for short. 
Ocean acidification is the process of carbon dioxide (CO2) in the air being absorbed by the oceans and causing significant changes in seawater chemistry. Anthropogenic ocean acidification describes the uptake of excess human-produced CO2 by the oceans, a process that causes arise in seawater acidity.
Ocean acidification is occurring because too much carbon dioxide is being released into the atmosphere. Carbon dioxide is nothing new, and its presence in moderate quantities is not a concern. The rate at which we are pumping it into our atmosphere is a concern, however. 1 Ocean Acidification: Coral Reefs in the Balance features human causes right at the beginning. 2  Pages 3-10 of the pdf document focus on where all this excess CO2 is coming from, and shows the relative amounts that are coming from emissions and from deforestation.
Courtesy of David Littschwager/National Geographic Society. Ocean acidification is sometimes called “climate change’s equally evil twin,” and for good reason: it's a significant and harmful consequence of excess carbon dioxide in the atmosphere that we don't see or feel because its effects are happening underwater. 