Although the wild turkey, as a species, had nothing to do with the country of Turkey, it is certain that the word turkey derives from that land. In the Middle Ages and thereafter, Turkey, in the broad sense, was a source of all things exotic-- spices, dyes, rare linens, and strange animals.
1 Eastern wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris). 2  This is the most common of the turkeys, and is found in the eastern half of North America from New England and southern Ontario west to Minnesota, Missouri, and Iowa, and south to Texas and northern Florida.
(Meleagris gallopavo silvestris)This subspecies of wild turkey is the most numerous and hunted species and is also the most widely distributed of all the subspecies in North America. It nearly inhabits the entire eastern half of the country.
At this time, the wild turkey is found in central Mexico, all 48 contiguous states of the U.S.A., and in parts of the Canadian provinces of Alberta, British Columbia, Manitoba, and Ontario. Small numbers may occur in Quebec and Saskatchewan.
The 6 subspecies are: 1  Eastern wild turkey (Meleagris gallopavo silvestris). 2  This is the most common of the turkeys, and is found in the eastern half of North America from New England and southern Ontario west to Minnesota, Missouri, and Iowa, and south to Texas and northern Florida.
A male turkey is called a tom or sometimes called a gobbler, and a female turkey is called a hen. In some types of wild turkeys males and females can be told apart by the breast feathers. Males' breast feathers have black tips, females’ are brown. Some types of domestic turkeys must be artificially bred, other types can breed on their own. For a wild turkey the breeding season is in March and April. To attract females, in both the wild and domestic turkey, the male will gobble and strut, fanning out his tail feathers. This dance attracts the female for mating.
Today's turkey population descended from a successful release of turkeys that occurred between 1971 and 1973 when 29 adult wild turkeys were trapped in Missouri and transplanted to Houston County in extreme southeastern Minnesota.