Human astrovirus infection primarily causes gastroenteritis and affects young children worldwide. Elderly, institutionalized patients and immunocompromised individuals (such as HIV-infected pa-tients and bone marrow transplant recipients) have also been affected by astrovirus-associated gastroenteritis. Some human volunteer studies of astrovirus infections have concluded that the virus is of relatively low pathogenicity in adults. Astrovirus diarrhea gene-rally is more mild than diarrhea due to rotavirus, and significant dehydration and hospitalization does not often result.
Following a 1-4 day incubation period, astrovirus infection typically presents as watery diarrhea that resembles a mild form of rotavirus gastroenteritis. Astrovirus diarrhea is principally seen in young children 6 months to 2 years of age and may be associated with anorexia, fever, vomiting, abdominal pain. Immunity to astrovirus infection is not well understood. Young children and the institutionalized elderly are usually the populations that develop symptomatic infection, suggesting that antibody is acquired early in childhood, provides protection through adult life, and wanes late in life (Glass et al., 1996).
Astrovirus: An RNA virus that may affect the gastrointestinal system. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Astrovirus is available below. Astrovirus Message Boards. Related forums and medical stories: 1  Infectious Diseases (235). 2  Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever. 3  Sharp needles like pain on skin. 4  small pink spots on penis. 5  very high titers. 6  Lymes-like symptoms.
Astrovirus has a non-segmented, single stranded, positive sense RNA genome within a non-enveloped icosahedral capsid. Human astroviruses have been shown in numerous studies to be an important cause of gastroenteritis in young children worldwide. Astroviruses are associated with 5–9% of cases of gastroenteritis in young children. The occurrence of astrovirus infection varies depending on the season. In temperate climates infection is highest during winter months. This is in contrast to tropical regions where prevalence is highest during the rainy season.
1 Astrovirus: A genus of small, circular RNA viruses in the family ASTROVIRIDAE. 2  They cause gastroenteritis and are found in the stools of several vertebrates including humans. 3  Transmission is by the fecal-oral route. 4  There are at least eight human serotypes and the type species is Human astrovirus 1. 1 Astrovirus: An RNA virus that may affect the gastrointestinal system. 2  Astrovirus: A genus of small, circular RNA viruses in the family ASTROVIRIDAE. 3  They cause gastroenteritis and are found in the stools of several vertebrates including humans. 4  Transmission is by the fecal-oral route
Astrovirus Infection in Cats. Astrovirus infection is a genus of small, non-enveloped RNA virus that causes intestinal disease symptoms in affected animals. 
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. The astrovirus is an infection agent that causes gastroenteritis. It affects certain species of mammals and birds including humans, cows, sheep and chickens. It is named after the Greek word for star because of its shape. Like other viruses, it attacks cells in its host in order to replicate itself. An astrovirus can cause various symptoms, including fever and nausea. Astroviral infections make children under 10 more at risk for developing gastroenteritis. Diarrhea, vomiting, and nausea are all common symptoms of astrovirus. A doctor may require stool samples in order to diagnose the
Astrovirus infections are considered among the most common cause of gastroenteritis in children, second only to rotavirus infections, but in animals their association with enteric diseases is not well documented, with the exception of turkey and mink astrovirus infection. Genetic variability has been described in almost all astrovirus species sufficiently examined infecting mammals and birds; however, antigenic variability has been demonstrated for human astroviruses but is far less investigated in animal viruses.
Astrovirus is a type of virus that was first discovered in 1975 using electron microscopes following an outbreak of diarrhoea in humans. Astroviruses are associated with 5–9% of cases of gastroenteritis in young children. The occurrence of astrovirus infection varies depending on the season. In temperate climates infection is highest during winter months. This is in contrast to tropical regions where prevalence is highest during the rainy season.