Verse 10 says, “To know Him and the power of His resurrection and the fellowship of His sufferings, being conformed to His death.” When Paul wrote the Epistle to the Philippians, he had the experiential knowledge of Christ and was experiencing the power of His resurrection.
The Power of His Resurrection Sermon #2080 www.spurgeongems.org Volume 35 2 2 I want you to observe, at the very outset, that all Paul desired to know was always in connection with our Lord, Himself. He says, “That I may know HIM and the power of His resurrection.” Jesus first, and then
The power of His resurrection is the highest realm of power, and it is accessible by knowledge. Philippians 3:10 says: That I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable unto his death. Recognize that power is in degrees and the anointing is in levels. Ezekiel 47:1-10 paints a very graphic picture of the realms of power and the levels of anointing. Note that rivers in scriptures symbolize the power of God, and the highest realm of power is the power of His resurrection.
And the power of his resurrection. The resurrection demonstrated him to be the Son of God with power (Ro 1:4). The mighty power that worked in his resurrection works in the saints (1) in their resurrection from spiritual death to a new life (Col 2:13 Eph 1:19-23). It is therefore a present power.
Life is about God and You. You are here: Home / God / Articles / Resurrection Power in You. We were buried with Him (Jesus) through baptism into death, that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life (Romans 6:4).
And the power of his resurrection. The resurrection of Christ was a glorious manifestation of Divine power (Romans 1:4). That resurrection is now a power in the spiritual life of Christians: it stimulates the spiritual resurrection, the resurrection from the death of sin unto the life of righteousness (comp.
That by it I may know Yeshua and the power of his resurrection, and that I may share in his sufferings and be conformed with his death, GOD'S WORD® Translation. that knows Christ. Faith knows the power that his coming back to life gives and what it means to share his suffering.
I want to know Christ--yes, to know the power of his resurrection and participation in his sufferings, becoming like him in his death, New Living Translation. I want to know Christ and experience the mighty power that raised him from the dead.