There is only One God. Insisting on the use of the word Allah which is the Arabic word for God immediately creates the illusion that Allah is a totally different God than God of the whole world. It creates a god that belongs only to the Muslims, and this would tarnish the universality of Islam. 
Answering-Islam is a Christian Web site that compares the god of Islam with the God of the Bible. It provides in-depth perspectives on the controversy of whether or not it is appropriate to refer to God as Allah. See Answering-Islam.org. Compiled and provided by Films for Christ. Allah is the primary Arabic word for God. It means ‘The God.’ There are some minor exceptions. For example, the Bible in some Muslim lands uses a word for God other than Allah (Farsi and Urdu are examples).
Those who still insist that it is blasphemy to refer to God as Allah should also consider that Muhammad’s father was named Abd Allah, ‘God’s servant,’ many years before his son was born or Islam was founded!” —excerpted from Building Bridges by Fouad Accad (Colorado Springs, CO: Navpress), p. 22. Allah is the primary Arabic word for God. It means ‘The God.’ There are some minor exceptions. For example, the Bible in some Muslim lands uses a word for God other than Allah (Farsi and Urdu are examples).
Quran is very significant to Muslims, the followers of Islam religion, as this holy book represents the true words of Allah (the God) per God revelation to prophet Muhammad (P … BUH) through angel Gabrial (Jibril) that started in year 610 AD through year 632 AD (year of prophet Muhammad death). Updated Answer  Muslims believe that Quran is God revelation to Prophet Mohamed through Angel Gabriel (Jibril). The revelation of the first verse of Quran was in year 610 AD … and the Quran revelations continued until Prophet Mohamed death in year 632 AD.   -ELO-    Answer  We believe it is Allah's (God's) words.
The translation of the word kafir as infidel is a grave error. The word infidel means someone who does not believe in God. The Qur’an does not allege that Jews and Christians do not believe in God. On the contrary the Qur’an refers to Jews and Christians respectfully as “People of the Book” and says: The term kafir, referring to a type of person, or kufr, referring to an act, is used in the Quran in a variety of ways: 1  Anyone who believes in one thing is a kafir of its opposite.
Muḥammad ibn ʿAbd Allāh ibn ʿAbd al-Muṭṭalib ibn Hāshim (Arabic: محمد بن عبد الله بن عبد المطلب ‎) (c. 570 – 632), in short form Muhammad and sometimes Mohammed, is considered in Islam to be the messenger (Quran 48:29) and prophet sent by God to guide humanity to the right way (Quran 7:157). Muhammad is held in high veneration by the Muslims, and is considered by them as the greatest of all the prophets. But Muslims do not worship Muhammad as worship in Islam is only for God.
[Al-Qur’an 29:46]. The term kafir, referring to a type of person, or kufr, referring to an act, is used in the Quran in a variety of ways: 1  Anyone who believes in one thing is a kafir of its opposite. 2  Here kafir means one who rejects and can even be used in a positive sense
Among former Muslims, many converts to Christianity commonly refer to God as “Allah.” (This is despite the fact that they recognize clear differences in the character of God as described by the Bible compared to Islamic writings. Allah is the primary Arabic word for God. It means ‘The God.’ There are some minor exceptions. For example, the Bible in some Muslim lands uses a word for God other than Allah (Farsi and Urdu are examples).
* Muslims refer to Christians and Jews as the people of the book (talking about the Bible and Torah) * Muslims believe in the bible and Torah but know that The Quran was the final word of god and the complete book. Source(s): I'm Muslim Religion Classes. Nina · 6 years ago. Thumbs up. 