If you buy an accounting program, that is also a write-off. Hiring a bookkeeper to help you with this aspect of your business is a write-off and, if you use an accounting firm to file your taxes, you can write off that expense. Car expenses. If you use your car for business purposes, the IRS allows you to use either the standard mileage rate of $.55 per mile or actual car expenses like depreciation, licenses, gas, oil, tolls, lease payments, insurance, garage rent, parking fees, registration fees, tires and repairs.
The IRS allows you to deduct qualified medical expenses that exceed 10% of your adjusted gross income for the year. Your adjusted gross income (AGI) is your taxable income minus any adjustments to income such as deductions, contributions to a traditional IRA and student loan interest. Updated for Tax Year 2014. OVERVIEW. Medical expenses can take a bite out of your budget, especially if you have unforeseen emergencies that are not fully covered by your insurance. The Internal Revenue Service allows taxpayers some relief, making some of these expenses partly tax-deductible.
Posted in Taxes. The IRS is fairly generous when it comes to tax deductions for small businesses. As a general rule, a business can write off any ordinary and necessary expense it incurs. There are, however, some notable exceptions to that rule. These eight expenses seem like legitimate deductions -- but can be difficult or impossible to write off. 
Step 4. Write in the breakdown of your unreimbursed business expenses on the coordinating lines of IRS Form 2106. Step 5. Submit your tax returns. Once you complete the rest of Form 1040, including Schedule A and Form 2106, submit it to the Internal Revenue Service by following the instructions on the form. The IRS also requires that you itemize these unreimbursed business expenses when filing your tax returns using IRS Form 1040. Step 1. Gather the receipts or records for the business expenses. They should show the type of business expense and the amount of the expense.
For example, if a portion of an expense is for your business and another part is for your personal benefit, only the business portion of the expense can be claimed as a business write-off. Small and home based businesses are entitled to many of the same write-offs as large companies. Car expenses. If you use your car for business purposes, the IRS allows you to use either the standard mileage rate of $.55 per mile or actual car expenses like depreciation, licenses, gas, oil, tolls, lease payments, insurance, garage rent, parking fees, registration fees, tires and repairs.
If you incur business expenses for work that are not reimbursed by the company you work for, you can write off these expenses on your personal tax returns. The IRS also requires that you itemize these unreimbursed business expenses when filing your tax returns using IRS Form 1040. Step 1. Gather the receipts or records for the business expenses. They should show the type of business expense and the amount of the expense.
However, there is a limit for the total amount of business property expenses that you can deduct from your business taxes for the year under Section 179. For the 2010 tax year, the limit is $134,000. In addition, if you purchased more than $800,000 worth of capital equipment in 2010, you may be subject to a phase-out. In general, you can calculate how much you are allowed to deduct from your business taxes by either using the standard mileage or the actual expense method. The standard mileage method is the most commonly used method because the record-keeping requirements are much less strict than
Your cellphone as a small business deduction. If you're self-employed and you use your cellphone for business, you can claim the business use of your phone as a tax deduction. If 30 percent of your time on the phone is spent on business, you could legitimately deduct 30 percent of your phone bill. You can deduct unreimbursed business expenses that amount to more than two percent of your adjusted gross income. These expenses also include professional association dues, legal fees and others listed in IRS Publication 529.
This post is brought to you by TurboTax Business Edition-Easily File and Maximize Your Business Tax Deductions. Tax deductions can be a boon for businesses: The more expenses you can write off, the greater your net profit will be. But be realistic about what is a true business expense. Up to $10,000 is deductible your first year in business, and you can deduct the balance in equal amounts over the next 15 years. Auto expenses. The simplest way to deduct the cost of owning (or leasing) and operating a vehicle is known as the standard-mileage-rate method.
You can also depreciate (write off) the cost of the vehicle over a number of years. For more information, see Deduct It! Lower Your Small Business Taxes, by Stephen Fishman (Nolo). 