With that, let's use the Salary Inflation Calculator to estimate what your income needs to be next year in order to keep pace with increasing consumer costs. The data for the calculator is based on the historical CPI (Consumer Price Index), as reported by the Bureau of Labor Statistics for the years 1913 to 2014. Current annual salary: Your current annual salary. Note that the calculator will also work as a wage inflation calculator. Simply enter your hourly wage in place of the annual salary. Inflation: Basically, inflation is the rise in the price of goods and services over time.
What you need next year just to keep up. Use our Salary Inflation Calculator. 5) To compare the cost of living in two cities use this Cost of Living calculator. Financial managers say this is a great tool when you are trying to decide on a big move and need to budget properly. 
What you need next year just to keep up. To use the calculator: 1) Input your current salary either weekly, monthly or annually. 2) Input the current annual inflation rate from the box to the right. Once you hit the Calculate Button the result will appear in bottom box inside the Inflation Calculator. To compare the cost of living in two cities use this calculator.
How much would your Salary have to be to keep up with Inflation: $. Note: The Salary Inflation Calculator is designed for use with inflation. If the inflation rate is negative (deflation) your purchasing power will increase (so your salary should decrease) and this calculator won't work. Try using an inflation rate from a longer period of time. 1) Input your current salary either weekly, monthly or annually. 2) Input the current annual inflation rate from the box to the right. Once you hit the Calculate Button the result will appear in bottom box inside the Inflation Calculator. To compare the cost of living in two cities use this calculator.
The CPI inflation calculator uses the average Consumer Price Index for a given calendar year. This data represents changes in prices of all goods and services purchased for consumption by urban households. This index value has been calculated every year since 1913. For the current year, the latest monthly index value is used.
The formula then becomes: (Current Salary) x (2009 CPI รท 2012 CPI) = Adjusted Salary for 2009 Using the actual figures: $75,000 x (214.537 รท 229.594) = $70,081. The US Salary Inflation Calculator provides a method to calculate what your annual salary needs to be to keep pace with inflation. To begin, enter a salary amount in the first box and the result will automatically calculate when you tab or enter out of the box. As a default, a 3.2% annual inflation rate is used for the expected rate. That is simply an average over the years. The expected rate may be changed as well
In economics, inflation is a sustained increase in the general price level of goods and services in an economy over a period of time. When the price level rises, each unit of currency buys fewer goods and services. 1 Inflation reduces the real burden of debt, both public and private. 2  If you have a fixed-rate mortgage on your house, your salary is likely to increase over time due to wage inflation, but your mortgage payment will stay the same.
Current age: The Salary Inflation Calculator will use your age to show what your currently salary was equal to in previous years, dating back to when you were 16 years old. Salary needed to keep pace with inflation: This is what your salary will need to increase to next year in order to keep pace with inflation. Current annual salary: Your current annual salary. Note that the calculator will also work as a wage inflation calculator. Simply enter your hourly wage in place of the annual salary. Inflation: Basically, inflation is the rise in the price of goods and services over time.
The US Salary Inflation Calculator is a tool that calculates the needed salary to combat inflation based on an expected inflation rate and initial salary amount. It is a simple percent increase type formula: (Expected US Inflation Rate) x (Current Salary) + (Current Salary) = Salary to Keep Up to Inflation. To begin, enter a salary amount in the first box and the result will automatically calculate when you tab or enter out of the box. As a default, a 3.2% annual inflation rate is used for the expected rate. That is simply an average over the years.
An inflated salary is a very close cousin to exaggerated job titles and responsibilities. In fact they are closely linked. The seriously widespread abuse of this particular facet of resume fraud is reflected in a survey. 