Tiger Balm is a very well-known brand that is popular worldwide as an effective pain reliever. The original Tiger Balm product has a very distinctive package and smell and is available in many retail stores and online. The official Tiger Balm website is professional in appearance and features their whole range of products which include the original balm, a patch, Ultra strength formula and lotion.
A Stacy Wiegman, PharmD, Pharmacy, answered. Tiger Balm is considered a topical analgesic. It is used for the relief of minor aches and pains from arthritis, muscle strain, headaches or backaches. Tiger Balm promotes blood flow around injured areas and sore muscles. Tiger Balm also has an anesthetic effect which penetrates deep down into muscle tissue to numb pain. Tiger Balm is an herbal analgesic whose ingredients include camphor, capsicum and menthol. Tiger Balm is available as ointment, oil, spray, lotion, patch, cream or plaster
Apply a small amount of Tiger Balm liniment or balm onto your tummy and massage well into the area. Soak the towel into the basin. Wring the water from the towel, making sure that the towel is still slightly moist. Use the warm towel to cover your tummy. Repeat the process once the towel cools down. Towel dry and immediately massage Tiger Balm medicated ointment, balm or liniment into the affected areas gently. For other parts of your body like your shoulders, knees or elbows, etc, it is best to apply the Tiger Balm medication after a warm bath.
Named after Aw Boon Haw whose name means Gentle Tiger, Tiger Balm is a herbal formulation for external pain relief. Tiger Balm is available in several varieties, the cold. Tiger Balm White (recommended for use with headaches) and the hot Tiger Balm Red. The strongest version is called Tiger Balm Ultra. From the package notes that accompany Tiger Balm. Tiger Balm is made from a secret herbal formulation that dates back to the times of the Chinese emperors. The Aw brothers, Aw Boon Haw and Aw Boon Par, inherited the formulation from their herbalist father who left China.
Tiger balm was developed during the 1870s in Rangoon, Burma, by herbalist Aw Chu Kin, son of a Hakka herbalist in China, Aw Leng Fan. His father had sent him to Rangoon in the 1860s to help in his uncle's herbal shop. From the package notes that accompany Tiger Balm. Tiger Balm is made from a secret herbal formulation that dates back to the times of the Chinese emperors. The Aw brothers, Aw Boon Haw and Aw Boon Par, inherited the formulation from their herbalist father who left China.
Report Abuse. Tiger Balm is used for stiff and sore muscles-kind of like a liniment, except Tiger Balm sort of hurts IMO. It is very hot and cold at the same time if you know what I mean... There is a reason it comes in the teeny-tiny container let me tell you. A little bit goes a LONG way!
Apply a small amount of Tiger Balm liniment or balm onto your tummy and massage well into the area. Soak the towel into the basin. Wring the water from the towel, making sure that the towel is still slightly moist. Prepare a basin of hot water and place it on a table. Apply Tiger Balm medicated balm under your nostrils. Use a towel large enough to drape it over your head. With your eyes closed, position your face just above the basin of hot water, making sure that the towel covers
The time-proven blend of herbal ingredients in Tiger Balm provides safe and effective topical pain relief for sore muscles, arthritis, neck and shoulder stiffness, and just about any other minor muscle or joint aches or pains that may come your way. 
Tiger Balm is made from a secret herbal formulation that dates back to the times of the Chinese emperors. From the package notes that accompany Tiger Balm. Tiger Balm is made from a secret herbal formulation that dates back to the times of the Chinese emperors. The Aw brothers, Aw Boon Haw and Aw Boon Par, inherited the formulation from their herbalist father who left China.
Tiger Balm is traditional Asian analgesic ointment that is used as a multi-purpose topical treatment of insect bites, muscular aches & pains, swelling, inflammation, muscle sprains, nasal congestion & sinus problems, as well as itchiness and skin blemishes. Tiger Balm Red is most potent ointment in the Tiger Balm range. It gives deep penetrating pain relief for the most persistent sprains and deep muscle tissue damage. It has specialised ingredients also allow it to unblock sinuses and reduce tension and stress, when worked into the muscles around the neck and temples.