Answers. Best Answer: Benzodiazepines stay in your system for 30 days or more. If you had an RX for it you would be OK, but if not then you will test positive. Try to drink a crapload of water and cranberry juice and try to pass it... All the drugs like Xanax, Valium etc. have a half life of 12 hours, meaning half of the drug is gone in 12 hours, but the rest stays in your system for 30 days. Source(s): ☆BTriX☆ · 9 years ago.
A single 0.5 mg dose of Xanax stays in your system for 3 to 5 days. But the longer period of taking Xanax, and the higher the dosages, the longer it will take your system to g … et rid of traces of Xanax. You may sometimes need a month or more to get yourself quite clear of the medication. Chronic use (6 months or more of daily use)of Xanax can take as long as 4-6 weeks to completely detox. Recreational use is usually 3-5 days depending on body weight, mg's take … n, duration of use, etc. Ambien is a grey area
Xanax stays in the blood for several days, given the long half life of the drug. Exactly how long it stays in the blood depends on the dose taken – it may take longer to clear from the blood in someone who’s abusing the drug and taking higher than normal therapeutic doses. Xanax is absorbed quickly in the body and reaches its peak levels in the blood within one or two hours. These plasma blood levels vary depending on the dose taken, but range from 8-37 ng/mL. The half life of Xanax in healthy adults averages 11 hours. In elderly subjects the half life of Xanax is higher, about 16 hours.
As for duration of action of up to 6 hours, 6 to 12 hours is the half-life period of Xanax. That is, after this length of time, one half of the taken dose is still present in your system. After another 6 to 12 hours, a half of this half is still present, and so on. How long Xanax will stay in your system cannot be predicted for sure. It depends on the system, different people respond in different ways. One 0.5mg dose may need 3 to 5 days to be almost eliminated. XANAX (alprazolam) HAS a duration of action of up to 6 hours. If you want to know how long after you take it can it be DETECTED, that's different. Most benzodiazapines, when taken on a regular basis, can be detected in the urine from 24 hours to 72 hours.
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Xanax will stay in your blood for a few days to a week. Its half life is 6 - 12 hours. So after 6 - 12 horus half of it wil be gone and then after another 6 - 12 hours half of the remaining drug will be gone and so on and so on until it is eliminated and undetectable. So probably after 3 - 5 days it should be undetectable. It can be dangerous to stop taking xanax abruptly.
Xanax doesn’t clear the body as quickly as many other drugs. In fact, Xanax can be detectable in urine for up to 6 weeks in heavy users. Plus, the main ingredient in Xanax (alprazolam) takes a fairly long time to absorb once it’s in the body, so even small doses can be detectable for over a week. Xanax is absorbed quickly in the body and reaches its peak levels in the blood within one or two hours. These plasma blood levels vary depending on the dose taken, but range from 8-37 ng/mL. The half life of Xanax in healthy adults averages 11 hours. In elderly subjects the half life of Xanax is higher, about 16 hours.
The level of drug reaches a peak in the bloodstream after one to two hours, and its felt effects last on average about 5 hours. However, Xanax remains in the bloodstream long after its anti-anxiety effects have worn off. Xanax’s average half-life is 11 hours. This means that it takes an average of 11 hours for the body to eliminate half the Xanax dose. In older or obese people, or those with liver disease, Xanax’s half-life is longer, as long as 40 hours. It takes several half-lives to eliminate a drug completely. So for most people, there may still be a small fraction of Xanax in your blood two days or more after taking a single pill. 
As for duration of action of up to 6 hours, 6 to 12 hours is the half-life period of Xanax. That is, after this length of time, one half of the taken dose is still present in your system. After another 6 to 12 hours, a half of this half is still present, and so on. How long Xanax will stay in your system cannot be predicted for sure. It depends on the system, different people respond in different ways. One 0.5mg dose may need 3 to 5 days to be almost eliminated. Chronic use (6 months or more of daily use)of Xanax can take as long as 4-6 weeks to completely detox. Recreational use is usually 3-5 days depending on body weight, mg's take … n, duration of use, etc. Ambien is a grey area