Metronidazole. Metronidazole (MNZ), marketed under the brand name Flagyl among others, is an antibiotic and antiprotozoal medication. It is used either alone or with other antibiotics to treat pelvic inflammatory disease, endocarditis, and bacterial vaginosis among others. Metronidazole is not labeled for animal use, but is widely used to treat infections of Giardia in dogs, cats, and other companion animals, although it does not reliably clear infection with this organism and is being supplanted by fenbendazole for this purpose in dogs and cats.
Bacterial vaginosis: Your health care provider may treat you with antibiotics such as metronidazole (Flagyl) or clindamycin (Cleocin). Generally, male sex partners are not treated. Many women with symptoms of bacterial vaginosis do not seek medical treatment, and many women without symptoms decline treatment. 
Uses of This Medicine. Metronidazole is used to treat bacterial infections in different areas of the body. The extended-release tablets are used to treat women with vaginal infections (bacterial vaginosis). Metronidazole belongs to the class of medicines known as antibiotics. It works by killing bacteria or preventing their growth. However, this medicine will not work for colds, flu, or other virus infections
Indications and Usage. Flagyl is the brand name for metronidazole, an antibiotic that is used to treat abdominal infections, infections of the skin and tissue, bone or joint infections, gynecologic infections or respiratory infections. Flagyl is given as a tablet that is to be taken orally with a full glass of water. Flagyl is an antibiotic used to kill bacteria causing infections in the body. As this medication takes effect, it is likely that you will start to feel better before the end of your prescription.
Metronidazole is an antibiotic. It fights bacteria in your body. Metronidazole is used to treat bacterial infections of the vagina, stomach, skin, joints, and respiratory tract. This medication will not treat a vaginal yeast infection. Metronidazole may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. 
FLAGYL is indicated for the treatment of T. vaginalis infection in females and males when the presence of the trichomonad has been confirmed by appropriate laboratory procedures (wet smears and/or cultures). In the treatment of most serious anaerobic infections, intravenous metronidazole is usually administered initially. The usual adult oral dosage is 7.5 mg/kg every six hours (approx. 500 mg for a 70-kg adult). A maximum of 4 g should not be exceeded during a 24-hour period
When signs and symptoms are severe or the infection persists, doctors usually treat giardiasis with medications such as: 1  Metronidazole (Flagyl). 2  Metronidazole is the most commonly used antibiotic for giardia infection. 3  Side effects may include nausea and a metallic taste in the mouth. 1 Metronidazole (Flagyl). 2  Metronidazole is the most commonly used antibiotic for giardia infection. 3  Side effects may include nausea and a metallic taste in the mouth. 4  Don't drink alcohol while taking this medication.
Flagyl 500 mg is an antibiotic drug that is used for treating bacterial infections like urinary tract infection (UTI). Unlike amoxicillin that can easily be purchased over-the-counter, Flagyl is a prescription medication. 