Keep in mind, your TPMS does not replace routine tire pressure maintenance. It’s a tool that can help alert you when pressure is low, but a tire may drop below proper inflation long before the TPMS warning light comes on.
Part of the Hardware glossary: A Trusted Platform Module (TPM) is a specialized chip on an endpoint device that stores RSA encryption keys specific to the host system for hardware authentication. Each TPM chip contains an RSA key pair called the Endorsement Key (EK). The pair is maintained inside the chip and cannot be accessed by software.
Share. The purpose of the TPMS (Tire Pressure Monitoring System) is to alert you when tire pressure is too low and could to create unsafe driving conditions. If the light is illuminated, it means your tires could be underinflated, which can lead to undue tire wear and possible tire failure.
In computing, Trusted Platform Module (TPM) is both the name of a published specification detailing a secure cryptoprocessor that can store secured information, as well as the general name of implementations of that specification, often called TPM chip, Fritz chip or TPM Security Device (Dell).
The technology industry isn't short of acronyms, but TPM really matters. TPM's purpose is to protect your business's data. TPM stands for Trusted Platform Module, and it's a little bit of hardware that makes a big difference. It's a small processor whose job is to protect the data on a device.
The implementation of a TPM program creates a shared responsibility for equipment that encourages greater involvement by plant floor workers. In the right environment this can be very effective in improving productivity (increasing up time, reducing cycle times, and eliminating defects).
A Trusted Platform Module (TPM) is a specialized chip on an endpoint device that stores RSA encryption keys specific to the host system for hardware authentication. Each TPM chip contains an RSA key pair called the Endorsement Key (EK). The pair is maintained inside the chip and cannot be accessed by software.
This key pair is generated by the TPM based on the Endorsement Key and an owner-specified password. A second key, called an Attestation Identity Key (AIK) protects the device against unauthorized firmware and software modification by hashing critical sections of firmware and software before they are executed.