Trailer Registration in MO. If you've just purchased a trailer, you need to title and register it by following the same procedures as regular car registration. The only difference is exemption from emissions inspection and costs: 1  Registration for 1 year: $7.50. 2  Registration for 3 years: $22.50. 3  Permanent trailer license: $52.50. 1 Submit a completed Application for Missouri Title and License (Form DOR-108). 2  If you have a lien on the vehicle, you must submit a notarized Notice of Lien, Lien Release, or Authorization to Add/Remove Name from Title (Form DOR-4809). 3  Pay the required fee.
NOTE: If you purchased a vehicle from an out-of-state dealer and had a trade-in, you must present proof of the trade-in in order to receive a tax credit when you title the vehicle in Missouri. This proof may be in the form of: 1 A safety inspection (not more than 60 days old), unless: 2  the vehicle is less than five years old; 3  you are a resident of a state other than Missouri; or. 4  you are obtaining a temporary permit for a trailer.
You have 30 days from the date of purchase to title and pay sales tax on your newly purchased trailer. If you do not title the trailer within 30 days, there is a title penalty of $25 on the 31st day after purchase. The penalty increases another $25 for every 30 days you are late with a maximum penalty of $200. 1  Trailer definition. 2  Exemptions. 3  To title and register a trailer in the state of Missouri, the owner must submit the following. 1 Owners who have owned the trailer for less than 90 days and paid sales tax to another state, less than the amount of Missouri State and local taxes, will be required to show proof of payment of those taxes and also pay the difference of the two amounts. 2  $8.50 title fee. 3  The applicable registration fee;
1. Attend A Missouri Dealer Educational Seminar. To obtain a MO Dealer License you will need to attend the state mandated Missouri Dealer Educational Seminar. You can do this as your first step of 12 steps, during your 12 steps, or after you have completed the 12 steps. Find a class near you by viewing the Class Schedule.
In addition, you'll have to pay $8.50 for the title, $10.25 for registration, and a $6 processing fee. NOTE: If you purchased a used ATV for less than $3,000, no sales tax is due on the vehicle. 1 Submit a completed Application for Missouri Title and License (Form DOR-108). 2  If you have a lien on the vehicle, you must submit a notarized Notice of Lien, Lien Release, or Authorization to Add/Remove Name from Title (Form DOR-4809). 3  Pay the required fee.
Trailer Title and Registration Requirements. To title and register a trailer, the owner will normally have to submit: 1  The properly signed title. 2  Sometimes you can use other proofs of ownership, such as a bill of sale or a Manufacturer’s Statement of Origin (MSO). 3  A signed application for title and license. 4  Receipts of paid personal property taxes. 
Buying a Vehicle. You have 30 days from the date of purchase to title and pay sales tax on your newly purchased vehicle. If you do not title the vehicle within 30 days, there is a title penalty of $25 on the 31st day after purchase. The penalty increases another $25 for every 30 days you are late with a maximum penalty of $200. 1 A safety inspection (not more than 60 days old), unless: 2  the vehicle is less than five years old; 3  you are a resident of a state other than Missouri; or. 4  you are obtaining a temporary permit for a trailer.
A new trailer plate may be purchased at that time. If you purchased a new or used trailer weighing less than 2,500 lbs., bring one of the following to a Secretary of State branch office to register it: a) For a new trailer, the Manufacturer's Certificate of Origin or the retailer's bill of sale. 