Andre is used predominantly in the Dutch, English, French, German, and Portuguese languages, and its origin is Old Greek. Andre is a variant (Dutch, English, French, German, and Portuguese) of Andreas. Andre is also a variant (English, French, and Portuguese) of the name Andrew (English, Greek, and Russian). Andre has 15 variants that are used in English and other languages. Andre is popular as a baby name for boys. The name's popularity jumped from the 1920s up to the 1970s. Its usage peaked modestly in 1971 with 0.133% of baby boys being given the name Andre. It ranked at #129 then. The baby name has since declined in popularity.
Meaning of Andrey. Russian name. In Russian, the name Andrey means-strong and manly andrei. Other origins for the name Andrey include-Russian, English.The name Andrey is most often used as a boy name or male name. Russian Name Meaning-strong and manly andrei. Origin-Russia. Alternate Origins-English.
[ 2 syll. an-drew, and-r- ew ] The baby boy name Andrew is pronounced in English as AE N-DRuw †. Andrew is largely used in the English, Greek, and Russian languages, and it is derived from Old Greek origins. A biblical name, it is derived from the element 'andreia' meaning male, manly, brave, virility. Andrew is a very popular baby name for boys. The name's popularity rose from the 1940s up to the 1980s. Its usage peaked in 1987 with 1.857% of baby boys being given the name Andrew. Its ranking then was #6.
Andre or Andre andré is The french And portuguese form of the Name, andrew and is now also used in The-english speaking. world Andre or Andre andré is The french And portuguese form of the Name, andrew and is now also used in The-english speaking. World andrew is The english form of The greek Name, andreas a short form of any of various compound names derived from- 'andr, man'. Warrior cognate names: 1  Are: Irish, Aindrias; Aindreas.  aindréas aindriu aindriú
Andrei is the Russian/Slavic equivalent of Andre' (minus the I) Another variation is Andrey, which was my given name, but changed by my parents at a young age to Andrei because everyone called me Audrey or Aubry assuming it was a typo'd female name. Personal experiences with the name Andrei: | Edit. The I at the end confuses many people... I've been called Audrey, Aubrey, Andrea. It also proves to be topic of conversation when meeting people in business and life, as people are curious as to it's origin, often only familiar with the Andre' spelling.
Andre or Andre andré is The french And portuguese form of the Name, andrew and is now also used in The-english speaking. World andrew is The english form of The greek Name, andreas a short form of any of various compound names derived from- 'andr, man'. Warrior cognate names: are Andre or Andre andré is The french And portuguese form of the Name, andrew and is now also used in The-english speaking. World andrew is The english form of The greek Name, andreas a short form of any of various compound names derived from- 'andr, man'. Warrior cognate names: 1  Are: Irish, Aindrias; Aindreas.  aindréas aindriu aindriú
AFANASIY (афана́сий): Russian form of Latin Athanasius, meaning immortal.. AFANASY: Variant spelling of Russian Afanasiy, meaning immortal.. AFON (Russian: афон): Russian form of Greek Athos, meaning immortal.. This name was given to a mountain and monastery in Abkhazia, called New Athos. Compare with another form of Afon.