One fruit in particular has caught the interest of many Central Florida gardeners: the blueberry. Growing blueberries at home requires a bit of patience and regular monitoring for pests and diseases, but the result can be well worth the extra effort. 
Several blueberry varieties grow well in Central Florida. Great question! Now is a perfect time to plant blueberries in Florida. It is easy to grow blueberries in containers and is typically much better than growing them in the ground. Blueberries thrive in a low pH soil. The recommended growing media for containerized blueberries is pine bark fines
Planting Time and Distance. In Florida, the best time to plant blueberry bushes is in winter, **between mid-December and mid-February**. Plant them in a location that gets four to five hours of full-sun exposure per day and has well-drained soil. If soil drainage is slow, plant the bushes in a raised bed. 
Growing the Berries. Blueberry bushes can be quite large when mature. While highbush berry bushes tend to be smaller, a rabbiteye can grow up to 15 feet tall and 10 feet wide. Use a 7- by 7-foot area for planting rabbiteyes and a 4- by 4-foot area for highbush blueberries. If you wish to grow them as a clustered hedgerow, you may take this down to 3 feet for highbush and 5 feet for rabbiteye. Plant blueberries in full sun in soil that drains well through 18 inches deep. Proper Location. Florida's soil is generally low in organic material and tends to be sandy, which means you need to amend the soil to keep blueberries happy. Incorporate an organic material, like peat moss or compost, into the top 8 inches of soil.
Jewel, Springhigh, Star, Sweetcrisp and Farthing are also fairly easy to grow from Gainesville to the central Florida counties such as Sebring. Mid-December to late February is the best time to plant blueberries in central Florida. After planting, it is especially important to add a layer of mulch to help retain moisture. Pine bark mulch is preferred and should be at least three inches deep. Crows and waxwings love to pluck blueberries from the plant as they ripen. Root-rot is the most problematic disease in Florida blueberries. When severe this disease can reduce plant vigor and may eventually cause death. Proper soil drainage is essential to reducing the likelihood of root-rot.
Commercial growers and those interested in more detailed information on growing blueberries in Florida are encouraged to visit the UF/IFAS Extension publications website at http://edis.ifas.ufl.edu/topic_blueberry. The best time to plant blueberries is from mid-December to mid-February. Bare-root or container-grown plants can be used. It is best to use plants about 2 feet tall with well-developed root systems that are not pot-bound. Keep the roots of bare-rooted plants moist but not overly wet prior to and during planting.
Southern high bush blueberries are grown in Florida and are the earliest blueberries to ripen in North America. These blueberries were developed by crossing northern high bush varieties from Michigan and New Jersey with native wild Florida blueberries. 
Overview. Blueberry plants not only produce tasty crops of blueberries the second season after planting, blueberry plants add a natural beauty to the landscape as well. Growing blueberries in Florida requires selecting special low-chill cultivars that grow well in the state's warmer climate. Step 1. Select the site to the grow blueberries that provides full sun and well draining soil. Pick a location clear of any tree roots (except pine trees) and no closer than 20 feet from structures. Plan to plant the blueberry plants in Florida some time between the middle of December to the middle of February.
Blueberry Varieties for Florida 3 soil preparation, which usually requires large quantities of pine bark. Rabbiteye varieties. On suitable blueberry soils in north and north central Florida, rabbiteye blueberries are more vigorous, longer lived, and easier to care for than most southern highbush varieties. Blueberry Varieties for Florida 5 die-back of unknown cause. Bluecrisp is more susceptible to leaf rust than most varieties. Emerald (Fig. 1) was released as a patented variety by the University of Florida in1999, and is currently one of the more widely planted varieties in north-central Florida.
Central Florida only gets between 100 and 300 chill hours each winter -- the number of hours below 45 degrees Fahrenheit. Blueberries need a certain number of chill hours to successfully bloom in spring. Proper Location. Florida's soil is generally low in organic material and tends to be sandy, which means you need to amend the soil to keep blueberries happy. Incorporate an organic material, like peat moss or compost, into the top 8 inches of soil.