The calendar shows Spring beginning on the Equinox of either March  20 or September 22/23 in the Southern Hemisphere.    The traditional winter months are December-Jan … uary-February and the  spring months as March-April-May, for the Northern Hemisphere. In  the Southern Hemisphere, this would be June-July-August for winter  and September-October-November for spring.
Seasons: Meteorological Versus Astronomical. Seasons are periods in a year marked by specific weather conditions, temperatures and length of day. Most modern day calendars around the world divide the year in 4 seasons: spring, summer, fall (autumn) and winter. The four seasons. The four seasons are spring, summer, fall (autumn) and winter. 
Report Abuse. Winter is in December, January, and February. Spring is in March April and May Summer is in June, July, and August Fall (Autumn) is in September, October, and november Some places in America dont really have 'seasons'--its just hot all eyear round or cold all year round. 
Spring is not a month, it is a SEASON.   The season of spring starts on the day of an Equinox and continues  to the flowing Solstice, a period of about 3 calendar months. …   Obviously the equinox start point depends on which of the Northern  or Southern hemispheres you are asking about. 1 Creative Cocktails for the Spring Season Spring is a beautiful time of the year. 2  Flowers are blooming, birds are singing and everything just comes alive again after the winter months.
At the spring equinox, days are approximately 12 hours long with day length increasing as the season progresses. Spring and springtime refer to the season, and also to ideas of rebirth, rejuvenation, renewal, resurrection and regrowth. Subtropical and tropical areas have climates better described in terms of other seasons, e.g. dry or wet, monsoonal or cyclonic. The first day of spring (celebrated on the day of the astronomical vernal equinox, which usually occurs on 21 March or the previous or following day depending on where it is observed) is the beginning of the new year, Nowruz, in the Iranian calendar.
Spring is not a month, it is a SEASON.   The season of spring starts on the day of an Equinox and continues  to the flowing Solstice, a period of about 3 calendar months. …   Obviously the equinox start point depends on which of the Northern  or Southern hemispheres you are asking about. The traditional winter months are December-Jan … uary-February and the  spring months as March-April-May, for the Northern Hemisphere. In  the Southern Hemisphere, this would be June-July-August for winter  and September-October-November for spring.
Best Answer: Every month EXCEPT December, January & February. I could include March because the first 21 days technically fall in winter while 21 days of December are in the fall. But, December is dreary while March offers hope of things to come. So, to me December is winter and March is spring. 
The calendar shows Spring beginning on the Equinox of either March  20 or September 22/23 in the Southern Hemisphere.    The traditional winter months are December-Jan … uary-February and the  spring months as March-April-May, for the Northern Hemisphere. 1 Creative Cocktails for the Spring Season Spring is a beautiful time of the year. 2  Flowers are blooming, birds are singing and everything just comes alive again after the winter months.