During pregnancy, the size of the thyroid gland is increased by 10% in women residing in iodine-sufficient regions and increased by 20%-40% in those living in iodine-deficient regions (16) . Iodine deficiency during pregnancy can result in hypothyroidism in women. While iodine is an essential component of thyroid hormones, the selenium-containing iodothyronine deiodinases (DIOs) are enzymes (or selenoenzymes) required for the conversion of T 4 to the biologically active thyroid hormone, T 3 (see the article on Selenium).
1 Iodine is a key component of thyroid hormones, which are required throughout life for normal growth, neurological development, and metabolism. ( 2 More information). 3  Insufficient iodine intake impairs the production of thyroid hormones, leading to a condition called hypothyroidism. While iodine is an essential component of thyroid hormones, the selenium-containing iodothyronine deiodinases (DIOs) are enzymes (or selenoenzymes) required for the conversion of T 4 to the biologically active thyroid hormone, T 3 (see the article on Selenium).
Goiter is the term that means enlargement of the thyroid gland. Iodine deficient goiter results because iodine is a crucial component of active thyroid hormones. If there is a low level of iodine in the diet, then less active T3 and T4 can be synthesized. 
The thyroid gland is controlled by the pituitary gland. When the thyroid is influenced by mercury, there is a high incidence of unexplained depression and anxiety. A person may have adequate levels of T3 and T4 hormones, but if the hormones are contaminated, the person is functionally thyroid deficient. Myxedema is the reaction in adulthood to lack of thyroid hormone, either because the thyroid gland wastes away or has to be removed, or because of failure of the pituitary gland to stimulate thyroid activity. Myxedema brings with it gradual personality changes along with marked physical changes.
The pituitary gland sends signals to other glands, for example the thyroid gland, to produce hormones, such as thyroid hormone. The hormones produced by the pituitary gland and other glands have a significant impact on bodily functions, such as growth, reproduction, blood pressure, and metabolism. Tumors can cause damage to the pituitary gland or hypothalamus and can therefore result in a loss of function. Damage to the pituitary gland can also be caused by radiation, surgery, infections such as meningitis, or various other conditions. In some cases, the cause is unknown.
Iodine is a trace element that is naturally present in some foods, added to others, and available as a dietary supplement. Iodine is an essential component of the thyroid hormones thyroxine (T4) and triiodothyronine (T3). When iodide enters the circulation, the thyroid gland concentrates it in appropriate amounts for thyroid hormone synthesis and most of the remaining amount is excreted in the urine [ 2 ]. The iodine-replete healthy adult has about 15–20 mg of iodine, 70%–80% of which is contained in the thyroid [ 6 ].
The thyroid is controlled by the pituitary gland, which secretes thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) in response to the amount of thyroxin it finds in the blood. TSH increases the amount of thyroxin secreted by the thyroid and also causes the thyroid gland to grow. 
Normally, TSH increases the uptake of iodine by the thyroid gland and increases production of thyroid hormone. If there is little iodine available in our diet, insufficient thyroid hormone is produced by the thyroid; hypothalamic TRH causes TSH to be released from the pituitary in large amounts. Thyroid Disease... The thyroid gland is located in the front of the neck attached to the lower part of the voicebox (or larynx) and to the upper part of the windpipe (or trachea). It has two sides or lobes. These lobes are connected by a narrow neck (or isthmus). Each lobe is about 4 cm long and 1 to 2 cm wide.