Note: In order to avoid food poisoning, make sure to keep your foods out of the danger zone. Refrigerate all foods within two hours or one hour if it is over 90°F outside, and before eating reheat to a safe minimum internal temperature. A single bacterium can multiply to trillions in just twenty-four hours when between 40°F and 140°F. This is because bacteria double approximately every twenty minutes under the right conditions: food, moisture, oxygen and warm
In order to substantially decrease your risk of food poisoning you must keep your foods at a safe temperature and out of the infamous danger zone.. A single bacterium can multiply to trillions in just twenty-four hours when between 40°F and 140°F. This is because bacteria double approximately every twenty minutes under the right conditions: food, moisture, oxygen and warm temperature.
5°C to 60°C has been specified as the danger zone for food. This is the range in which micro-biological growth can occur quickly. If food is left too long within this temperature range then potentially deadly micro-organisms can grow. Heating food above 60°C will kill most micro-organisms. 
Keep potentially hazardous foods out of the Danger Zone!. For example, when food is left in the Danger Zone, bacteria can grow fast, and make poisons that can make your customers and family very sick. If a refrigerator does not work right, the temperature of the food in it can reach the Danger Zone.. Before you move the food to another cooler check its temperature with the metal stem thermometer. If it is still colder than 41°F, move it quickly to a cooler or refrigerator that is OK.
Temperature: the danger zone. An important part of food safety is food temperature and storage. Bacteria can grow on food that isn’t kept at the proper temperature. The ideal temperature zone for bacteria to multiply in high-risk food is known as the ‘temperature danger zone.’ When handling food, always make sure that you keep high risk food in the temperature danger zone for as short a time as possibl
The temperature range in which food-borne bacteria can grow is known as the danger zone. Food safety agencies, such as the United States' Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS), define the danger zone as roughly 4–5 to 60 °C (39–41 to 140 °F). Time and temperature control plays a critical role in food safety. To prevent time-temperature abuse, the amount of time food spends in the danger zone must be minimized.
Bacteria grow most rapidly in the range of temperatures between 40 °F and 140 °F, doubling in number in as little as 20 minutes. This range of temperatures is often called the “Danger Zone.” Keep Food Out of the “Danger Zone” Never leave food out of refrigeration over 2 hours. If the temperature is above 90 °F, food should not be left out more than 1 hour.• Keep hot food hot — at or above 140 °F. Place cooked food in chafing dishes, preheated steam tables, warming trays, and/or slow cookers.• Keep cold food cold — at or below 40 °F. Place food in containers on ice.
Leaving food out too long at room temperature can cause bacteria (such as Staphylococcus aureus, Salmonella Enteritidis, Escherichia coli O157:H7, and Campylobacter) to grow to dangerous levels that can cause illness. 
The Danger Zone is the temperature range between 40 °F (4.4 ºC) and 140 °F (60 ºC) in which bacteria can grow rapidly. To keep food out of the Danger Zone, keep cold food cold, at or below 40 °F (4.4 ºC) , and hot food hot, at or above 140 °F (60 ºC). Keep cold food in the refrigerator, in coolers, or in containers on ice
Bacteria won't multiply in the colder temperatures of a refrigerator or freezer, or at temperatures hotter than 141°F. Where they thrive is between 41°F and 140°F, a region known as the Temperature Danger Zone.. 