2 lbs. fresh grouper fillets. 1 jar fancy mustard. 1 tablespoon grated onion. 1/2 tsp. salt. 1/2 tsp. coase-ground black pepper. Directions. Mix mustard, onion, salt and pepper. Coat the fillets with this mixture and marinate for 1 to 2 hours in the refrigerator. Remove fillets from fridge and place on a hot grill. Cook the grouper until done, turning once during the grilling. (Note: 1-inch-thick fillets will take approximately 13 minutes to cook. Thinner fillets will take less time.).
1 Cook the fish for 4 to 6 minutes and then turn to grill on the other side for approximately same amount of time. 2  Insert the tip of a knife in thickest area of the fish to check for doneness. 3  The meat should be flakey and opaque in appearance. 4  The internal temperature of the fish should be at least 145°F. 
1 Remove grouper from marinade. 2  Over a medium high grill temperature, place the fillets on the grill. 3  Cook for about cook 4 to 5 minutes, brushing frequently with citrus marinade. 4  Turn the grouper fillets (carefully) and grill for another 4 to 5 minutes. 1 Note: you may have to adjust cooking time depending on the thickness of your fillets and your actual grill temperature (Fish cooking time rule is 10 minutes, per inch of thickness of fish).
Step 4. Place the grouper fillets onto the hot fish grate. Let the grouper grill for three to four minutes. Slide a spatula beneath the grouper fillets to turn them and grill for an additional three to four minutes, or until the internal temperature of the grouper reaches 125 to 140 degrees Fahrenheit.
2. Grill the grouper fillets on a grill. 1  Preheat the grill to medium heat and coat it with oil or nonstick cooking spray so the fish does not stick. 2  Grill the grouper fillets for approximately 5 minutes per side or until they flake with a fork. 1 (29.58 ml) olive oil. 2  The olive oil should be smoking before putting the fish in. 3  Place the grouper fillets into the cast iron pan. 4  Allow to cook for 2 to 3 minutes each side or until the fish flakes with a fork.
1 Turn the grouper fillets (carefully) and grill for another 4 to 5 minutes. 2  Note: you may have to adjust cooking time depending on the thickness of your fillets and your actual grill temperature (Fish cooking time rule is 10 minutes, per inch of thickness of fish). 1
3. Fry the grouper fillets on the oven. 1  Use 3 shallow bowls and fill the 1st with flour, the 2nd with 1 cup (237 ml) of milk and 2 eggs and the 3rd with cornmeal and seasonings. 2  Dredge the grouper in the flour and place it into the egg wash. 3  Dip the fish into the cornmeal to coat both sides. 1 (29.58 ml) olive oil. 2  The olive oil should be smoking before putting the fish in. 3  Place the grouper fillets into the cast iron pan. 4  Allow to cook for 2 to 3 minutes each side or until the fish flakes with a fork.
Ready In. 1  Preheat the oven's broiler. 2  Place the grouper fillets on a greased baking tray. 3  Broil the fillets for 4 to 6 minutes, until they can be flaked with a fork. 4  Return to the broiler for an additional 30 seconds, or until the topping is browned and bubbly. 1 Broil the fillets for 4 to 6 minutes, until they can be flaked with a fork. 2  Remove from the oven and spread the cheese mixture on top of fillets. 3
1 Add grouper fillets mix well and marinade for 30 minutes in refrigerator. 2  Remove grouper from marinade. 3  Over a medium high grill temperature, place the fillets on the grill. 4  Cook for about cook 4 to 5 minutes, brushing frequently with citrus marinade. 1 Note: you may have to adjust cooking time depending on the thickness of your fillets and your actual grill temperature (Fish cooking time rule is 10 minutes, per inch of thickness of fish).