An aluminum electrolytic capacitor consists of cathode aluminum foil, capacitor paper (electrolytic paper), electrolyte, and an aluminum oxide film, which acts as the dielectric, formed on the anode foil surface. Smooth aluminum foil offers less surface area and thus less capacitance. 
Note: Super capacitors are technically called electro-chemical capacitors but they store energy electrostatically like other capacitors. To quantify the internal electro-chemical activity of a capacitor using this circuit, simply measure the capacitor’s “leakage” with the test voltage set to zero. If the reading is negative, the capacitor is self-charging with its plus terminal becoming positive with respect to its minus terminal.
Because of the structure of the electrolytic capacitor this actually means that there are two diodes, one parallel to the anode capacity and the second parallel to the cathode capacity, which form the equivalent circuit diagram of the electrolytic capacitor in terms of its leakage current. In principle a capacitor is just like a storage reservoir, not for water but for electrical charge carriers. And the leakage current can certainly be compared to the water seeping through the dam. A capacitor will also not become “full” if the discharge current is greater than or equal to the supply current.
The lower leakage current, the better the capacitor. In good electrolytic capacitors this current does not exceed tens-hundreds micro-amps (de-pending on the size, temperature and applied voltage). The chemical composition of the electrolyte must ensure recovery of the aluminum oxide layer to micro-damage. 
Super-capacitors are energy storage devices similar to secondary batteries. Unlike batteries, which use chemical reactions to store energy, super-capacitors generally store energy through the physical separation of electrical charges. 
After this time all the weaknesses in the dielectric of the electrolytic capacitor of the modern professional electrolytic capacitor supplied today have been healed and the leakage current has declined to a permanent low value, which now corresponds to the situation in the equivalent circuit diagram in Fig. 2. In principle a capacitor is just like a storage reservoir, not for water but for electrical charge carriers. And the leakage current can certainly be compared to the water seeping through the dam. A capacitor will also not become “full” if the discharge current is greater than or equal to the supply current.
The capacitor plague was a problem related to a higher-than-expected failure rate of aluminum electrolytic capacitors with liquid electrolyte between 1999 and 2007, especially brands from some Taiwanese manufacturers. 
1. I just found out that some capacitors hardly leak whereas other types of capacitors leak a lot of current through the dielectric. I’ve looked at Wikipedia and found several links (Leakage and Capacitor plague) which does not really described the current leakage (to the best of my understanding). 
Note: Super capacitors are technically called electro-chemical capacitors but they store energy electrostatically like other capacitors. To quantify the internal electro-chemical activity of a capacitor using this circuit, simply measure the capacitor's leakage with the test voltage set to zero. If the reading is negative, the capacitor is self-charging with its plus terminal becoming positive with respect to its minus terminal. Used with a DMM on the 20V range, this circuit gives a rapid and direct measure of the leakage current of capacitors. There are two ranges, with maximum readings of about 20µA and 2mA, and the test voltage can be varied.
(1) and (2) are standard capacitor circuit symbols. (3) is an example of capacitors symbols in action in a voltage regulator circuit. The symbol with the curved line (#2 in the photo above) indicates that the capacitor is polarized, meaning it’s probably an electrolytic capacitor. 1 Maximum voltage-Each capacitor is rated for a maximum voltage that can be dropped across it. 2  Some capacitors might be rated for 1.5V, others might be rated for 100V. 3  Exceeding the maximum voltage will usually result in destroying the capacitor. 4  Leakage current-Capacitors aren’t perfect.