Mail Merge Step by Step Instructions for the PC Page 1 of 4 1. Open Microsoft Word 2003. 2. Go to If the task pane was closed, it will open the Mail Merge task pane. Step 1: Select Document Type 1. Under Select document type, choose Letters. Mail Merge Step by Step Instructions for the PC Page 4 of 4 2. To locate a specific item, click Find a recipient... , and then enter the criteria in the Find field. 3. To change the list of recipients, click Edit recipient list... , and make your changes in the Mail Merge Recipients window.
Click the Mailings tab to open the Mail Merge tools. If you are using Word 2003 or older, click the Tools menu and select Letters and Mailings → Show Mail Merge Toolbar. 4. Click the Start Mail Merge button and select your format. You can use Mail Merge to create emails, letters, envelopes, labels, and directories. You can also select Normal Word Document if you're not sure. 1  If you select Envelopes, the Envelope Options window will appear, allowing you to choose how your envelopes will be formatted as well as the physical envelope size.
1 On the Mailings tab, click Start Mail Merge, and then click Step by Step Mail Merge Wizard. 2  Under Select document type, click Labels, and then click Next: Starting Document. 3  Under Select starting document, click Change document layout or Start from existing document. 1 In the Mail Merge task pane, click Select from Outlook contacts, and then click Choose Contacts Folder under the Select from Outlook Contacts Folder heading. 2  A dialog box to select contacts appears, with the available Contacts folder. 3  Select the correct folder, and then click OK.
Video: Mail merge. To show how mail merge works, let's start with an email message. You start with a main document, attach a list of recipient information, and add mail merge fields. Then Word automatically fills in the fields with recipient information and generates all the individual documents.
Instructions for Using Mail Merge. Select the Mailings tab and from there you'll find Start Mail Merge.” Scroll on down to step-by-step, Mail Merge Wizard, and from here you'll find the wizard starts. The first thing you're going to do is select your document type. You can create a mail merge with letters, email messages, envelopes, labels, directories. 
Start a mail merge. To do this, use one of the following procedures, as appropriate for the version of Word that you are running. On the Tools menu, click Letters and Mailings, and then click Mail Merge Wizard. On the Tools menu, click Letters and Mailings, and then click Mail Merge. On the Mailings tab, click Start Mail Merge, and then click Step by Step Mail Merge Wizard. The Mail Merge task pane appears.
Click Mailings Start Mail Merge, and then click the kind of merge you want to run. Click Select Recipients Use an Existing List. Browse to your Excel spreadsheet, and then click Open. If Word prompts you, select Sheet1$ and click OK. Now the Excel spreadsheet’s connected to the mail merge document you’re creating in Word. To include only some of the people or items from your spreadsheet, click Mailings Edit Recipient List. The Mail Merge Recipients box opens.
1 On the Tools menu, click Letters and Mailings, and then click Mail Merge. 2  Microsoft Office Word 2007 or later versions of Word. 3  On the Mailings tab, click Start Mail Merge, and then click Step by Step Mail Merge Wizard. 4  Under Select document type, click Labels, and then click Next: Starting Document. 1 In the Mail Merge task pane, click Select from Outlook contacts, and then click Choose Contacts Folder under the Select from Outlook Contacts Folder heading. 2  A dialog box to select contacts appears, with the available Contacts folder. 3  Select the correct folder, and then click OK.
In this free mail merge video tutorial, learn how to use Microsoft Word and Open Office to mail merge for mass mailing, from our expert Gary Zier. Gary will teach and demonstrate all the steps required for creating a mail merge document using Microsoft Word and Excel, and Open Office. 
Mail Merge Step by Step Instructions for the PC Page 2 of 4 5. In the Mail Merge Recipients window, select the recipients you want by checking the boxes next to the recipients. To sort the list, click the column heading of the item you want to sort by. Mail Merge Step by Step Instructions for the PC Page 4 of 4 2. To locate a specific item, click Find a recipient... , and then enter the criteria in the Find field. 3. To change the list of recipients, click Edit recipient list... , and make your changes in the Mail Merge Recipients window.