Known also as a soft voice box , laryngomalacia is a congenital irregularity that causes a person to make odd noise, or stridor, when breathing. Sometimes the noise can be heard by anyone near the person, though in other cases it is only heard with the use of a stethoscope. 
Laryngomalacia. Laryngomalacia is the most common cause of noisy breathing in infants. It is caused by a collapse of tissue in the larynx above the vocal cords. Laryngomalacia causes a squeaky, high-pitched noise in children that commonly occurs while children are breathing in. This is known as stridor. 
Pathophysiology. Laryngomalacia may affect the epiglottis, the arytenoid cartilages, or both. When the epiglottis is involved, it is often elongated, and the walls fold in on themselves. The epiglottis in cross section resembles an omega, and the lesion has been referred to as an omega-shaped epiglottis. Background. Laryngomalacia, shown in the image below, is a congenital abnormality of the laryngeal cartilage. It is a dynamic lesion resulting in collapse of the supraglottic structures during inspiration, leading to airway obstruction.
Laryngomalacia is a congenital softening of the tissues of the larynx (voice box) above the vocal cords. This is the most common cause of noisy breathing in infancy. The laryngeal structure is malformed and floppy, causing the tissues to fall over the airway opening and partially block it. If your child is born with laryngomalacia, symptoms may be present at birth, and can become more obvious within the first few weeks of life. It is not uncommon for the noisy breathing to get worse before it improves, usually around 4 to 8 months of age. Most children outgrow laryngomalacia by 18 to 20
Laryngomalacia. Laryngomalacia is the most frequent cause of noisy breathing or stridor in infants and children. It is the most common congenital anomaly or birth defect of the voice box or larynx. Laryngomalacia is best described as floppy tissue above the vocal cords. Laryngomalacia is the most frequent cause of noisy breathing or stridor in infants and children. It is the most common congenital anomaly or birth defect of the voice box or larynx
Laryngomalacia: Introduction. Laryngomalacia: A defect where the larynx is abnormally soft which affects voice quality and can cause breathing problems. The larynx is so soft that when inhalation occurs, the larynx collapses and obstructs the breathing passage. 
However, the infantile form is much more common. Laryngomalacia is one of the most common laryngeal congenital disease in infancy and public education about the signs and symptoms of the disease is lacking. In infantile laryngomalacia, the supraglottic larynx (the part above the vocal cords) is tightly curled, with a short band holding the cartilage shield in the front (the epiglottis) tightly to the mobile cartilage in the back of the larynx (the arytenoids). These bands are known as the aryepiglottic folds.
Laryngomalacia (literally, soft larynx ) is the most common cause of stridor in infancy, in which the soft, immature cartilage of the upper larynx collapses inward during inhalation, causing airway obstruction. In infantile laryngomalacia, the supraglottic larynx (the part above the vocal cords) is tightly curled, with a short band holding the cartilage shield in the front (the epiglottis) tightly to the mobile cartilage in the back of the larynx (the arytenoids). These bands are known as the aryepiglottic folds.
Laryngomalacia. Laryngomalacia is a congenital softening of the tissues of the larynx (voice box) above the vocal cords. This is the most common cause of noisy breathing in infancy. The laryngeal structure is malformed and floppy, causing the tissues to fall over the airway opening and partially block it. 