Old Hungarian name of Turkic origin. This name and the title of 'sultan' share a common ancestor, but its use in Hungary goes back further: prince Zoltan zoltán reigned from 907 to 947, ad while The turkish rulers took to Using sultan in (1473 replacing the older title Of). emir 
Comments and insights on the name Zola: | Edit. Share what you know! Personal experiences with the name Zola: | Edit. I know a girl named Zola! She's very smart and oddly enough fits her name perfectly. Currently, she's a part-time model in which the money she earns is used to pay for a degree in Astro-Physics. Different origins are given for this name. Some sources give Zola as coming from Latin, meaning earth or ball of earth. Others claim it is a Zulu name, meaning quiet, tranquil.
Zolia /zo-lia/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Italian origin, and the name Zolia means lump of earth. Zolia is a version of Zola (Italian). Zylla is a common surname. Zolia is an equally rare surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). The only prominent variation form of Zolia (not ranked) appearing in the Top 1000 is Zola.
The name Zola is of Italian origin. The meaning of Zola is piece of earth. It is also of African Zulu origin, where its meaning is quiet, tranquil, love, productive. View the Zola Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Zola has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Zola to other names.
Find out where people with the family name Zoli lived before coming to the United States. Using Ancestry, you can search through passenger arrival records, naturalization records, border crossings, emigration records, passport applications, and even convict transportation records. An unusually short lifespan might indicate that your ancestors lived in harsh conditions. A short lifespan might also indicate health problems that were once prevalent in your family. The SSDI is a searchable database of more than 70 million names. You can find birthdates, death dates, addresses and more.
Tough guy with big gun(s). Using by hardcore online-gamers. When good player having superior weapons but he could won without it, he called Zoli. (pejorative expression such as score-whore, spawn-killer). (It sounds like the name of the famous Italian gunsmith Antonio Zoli who made good and nice shotguns.
Zolia is a rare given name for women. Zolia is an equally rare surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). The only prominent variation form of Zolia (not ranked) appearing in the Top 1000 is Zola. Adoption of this girl name was at its peak during 1890-1899 (usage of 0.585%) and has become much lower since, with Zola becoming less fashionable
Zola /zo-la/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Italian origin, and the meaning of Zola is lump of earth. Also possibly invented as a combination of zo and la. 19th cenutyr French novelist Emile Zola; runner Zola Budd. Kreatif forms: Zela, Zole. Zola is a very prominent first name for women (#1634 out of 4276, Top 38%) and also a very prominent last name for both adults and children (#25610 out of 150436, Top 17%).
Zola is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Zo-la. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1723 in baby name popularity for girls with 121 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Zola Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Zola has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Zola to other names.