The greater part of the Danube Delta lies in Romania (Tulcea County), while its northern part, on the left bank of the Chilia arm, is situated in Ukraine (Odessa Oblast). The approximate surface area is 4,152 km 2 (1,603 sq mi), and of that, 3,446 km 2 (1,331 sq mi) are in Romania. The modern Danube Delta began to form after 4000 BCE in a bay of the Black Sea, when the sea rose to its present level.
The Danube is navigable by ocean ships from the Black Sea to Brăila in Romania and by river ships to Kelheim, Bavaria, Germany; smaller craft can navigate further upstream to Ulm, Wuerttemberg, Württemberg. Germany about 60 of its tributaries are also. navigable At the Iron Gate, the Danube flows through a gorge that forms part of the boundary between Serbia and Romania; it contains the Iron Gate I Hydroelectric Power Station dam, followed at about 60 km (37 mi) downstream (outside the gorge) by the Iron Gate II Hydroelectric Power Station.
A deluxe Danube River cruise from the Danube Delta to Vienna is the highlight on this fascinating vacation through Eastern Europe. Explore the Danube Delta with its unique birdlife, celebrate the end of the Danube’s journey as it flows into the Black Sea, and sail through the dramatic Iron Gates gorge. A visit to the Danube Delta is the highlight on this fascinating getaway through Eastern Europe. Start with two nights in Vienna, the “City of Music,” then transfer to Bratislava, the capital of Slovakia, for included sightseeing before you embark your river cruise ship.
Danube-the 2nd longest European river (after the Volga); flows from southwestern Germany to the Black Sea; Vienna, Budapest, and Belgrade are on the banks of the Danube. Danau, Danube River. Bulgaria, Republic of Bulgaria-a republic in the eastern part of the Balkan Peninsula in southeastern Europe. Czechoslovakia-a former republic in central Europe; divided into Czech Republic and Slovakia in 1993. Word History: Across Europe, from Russia to England, there are rivers with names beginning with a d and also containing an n: the Don, the Dnieper, and the Dniester of Russia and Ukraine, the Danube of central Europe, and the six rivers called Don in Britain.
Danube. n. 1. (Placename) a river in central and SE Europe, rising in the Black Forest in Germany and flowing to the Black Sea. Word History: Across Europe, from Russia to England, there are rivers with names beginning with a d and also containing an n: the Don, the Dnieper, and the Dniester of Russia and Ukraine, the Danube of central Europe, and the six rivers called Don in Britain.
• DANUBE (noun). The noun DANUBE has 1 sense: 1. the 2nd longest European river (after the Volga); flows from southwestern Germany to the Black Sea. Familiarity information: DANUBE used as a noun is very rare. 
The Danube river rises in Germany’s Black Forest and flows through or along the borders of 10 countries. A Danube river cruise may include spectacular cities like Vienna, Budapest, Munich and Prague. Danube cruise ships wander through scenic old-country villages, stop at fairy-tale-esque castles, medieval fortresses, churches, museums, concert halls and more-to say nothing of the amazing food, wine and beer. A visit to the Danube Delta is the highlight on this fascinating getaway through Eastern Europe. Start with two nights in Vienna, the “City of Music,” then transfer to Bratislava, the capital of Slovakia, for included sightseeing before you embark your river cruise ship.
1. Danube-the 2nd longest European river (after the Volga); flows from southwestern Germany to the Black Sea; Vienna, Budapest, and Belgrade are on the banks of the Danube. Danau, Danube River. Bulgaria, Republic of Bulgaria-a republic in the eastern part of the Balkan Peninsula in southeastern Europe. Czechoslovakia-a former republic in central Europe; divided into Czech Republic and Slovakia in 1993.
Originating in Germany, the Danube flows southeast for 2,860 km (1,780 mi), passing through or touching the border of Austria, Slovakia, Hungary, Croatia, Serbia, Romania, Bulgaria, Moldova and Ukraine before emptying into the Black Sea. Its drainage basin extends into nine more nations. At the Iron Gate, the Danube flows through a gorge that forms part of the boundary between Serbia and Romania; it contains the Iron Gate I Hydroelectric Power Station dam, followed at about 60 km (37 mi) downstream (outside the gorge) by the Iron Gate II Hydroelectric Power Station.