The absence of earwax may result in dry, itchy ears. Most of the time the ear canals are self-cleaning; that is, there is a slow and orderly migration of earwax and skin cells from the eardrum to the ear opening. 
What Causes Dry Skin in Ears. 1. Dry or flaky ears are caused by a multitude of things, and fortunately, you can usually pinpoint the problem rather quickly. One of the most common problems is cleaning the ear canal too often or too vigorously. 
It protects the skin of the human ear canal, assists in cleaning and lubrication, and also provides some protection from bacteria, fungi, insects and water. Earwax consists of shed skin cells, hair, and the secretions of the ceruminous and sebaceous glands of the outside ear canal. 
Ear wax in the ear canal is a mixture of secretions from oil and sweat glands in the canal's skin. Shedded skin cells are also a major ingredient of ear wax. There are two genetically determined types of ear wax: the wet type and the dry type. 1. Get help from a doctor now ›. Skin and wax gland: Cerumen or ear wax is a product of sloughed off dead skin and the compound produced by your cerumen glands in your outer ear canal. The consistency can range from moist to dry and flaky. It depends on the relative oil content of the cerumen gland product and amount of sloughed off skin
Dry ears are itchy: A normal ear has a thin layer of natural body oil. Some ears produce no ear wax which results in dry and itchy ear skin. Sometimes people compulsively clean their ears and dry them out by removing the natural wax. Dry ears tend to accumulate flakes of dry dead skin. For people who just lack ear wax, occasional insertion of a few drops of vegetable oil can be helpful.
Dry Skin. If your ears don’t produce enough ear wax, your ear skin can become dry and itchy. Wax has lubricating effects, and its absence can cause you to experience itching. You may even notice flaking skin coming from the ear. 
The wax may keep ears from feeling dry or itchy. 2. It also keeps them (relatively) clean. That waxy buildup is a sexy combo of those lubricating secretions, sloughed skin cells and dirt and dust trapped there while trying to enter your ear. But believe it or not, for the most part it will clean itself out. 
Earwax is slightly acidic and has antibacterial properties. Without earwax, the skin inside your ear would become dry, cracked, infected or waterlogged and sore. Earwax can be wet or dry, hard or soft. Soft earwax is more common in children and hard earwax is more likely to cause problems. Earwax doesn't usually cause problems, but if too much earwax is produced it can lead to a blocked and painful ear or hearing loss. Read more about the symptoms of earwax build-up. Repeated ear infections, flaky skin near your ear, or hair in your ear canals can also increase your risk of developing earwax problems.
The wax may also be dry, white, and flaky. Too much earwax in the ear can be uncomfortable. If too much earwax is in the ear canal, it may act like an earplug, blocking sound entering the ear and making it harder to hear. Earwax (also called cerumen) is made by glands in the outer part of the ear canal. Earwax helps your ear stay healthy. It helps stop dust, dirt, and other substances from getting into