He is considered one of the most successful entertainers of all time. He was born James Paul McCartney on June 18, 1942, in Liverpool General Hospital, where his mother, Mary Patricia (Mohin), was a medical nurse and midwife. On June 18, 2006, Paul McCartney celebrated his 64th birthday, as in his song when I'm Sixty-Four.. McCartney's celebrity status, made it a cultural milestone for a generation of those born in the baby-boom era who grew up with the music of The Beatles during the 1960s.
Paul Severs was born in Huizingen, Belgium on the 26th of june 1948. He's a Belgian singer-songwriter. He's very popular in Belgium. His best-known songs are 'Geen Wonder Dat Ik Ween', Zeg Eens Meisje' and 'Ik Ben Verliefd Op Jou'. In 2007 his song 'Geen Wonder Dat Ik Ween' was again popular because it was in the movie 'Firmin'. Read more on Last.fm
For other persons named Paul Young, see Paul Young (disambiguation) . Paul Anthony Young (born 17 January 1956) is an English singer and musician. Formerly the frontman of the short-lived bands Kat Kool & the Kool Cats, Streetband and Q-Tips, his following solo success turned him into a 1980s teen idol. This article is about the solo singer. For the late singer with Sad Cafe café And + Mike The, mechanics See Paul (Young Sad cafe Café + And Mike the) . Mechanics singer for other Persons Named, paul Young See (paul) . young 
Mini Bio (1). Born on October 13, 1941 in Newark New Jersey, Paul Simon is one of the greatest singer/songwriters ever. In 1957, he and high school pal, Art Garfunkel, wrote and recorded the single, Hey Schoolgirl, under the name Tom and Jerry. After some failures, they broke up. In the seventies, Simon emerged as a singer/songwriter with albums such as Paul Simon, Still Crazy After All These Years, Hearts and Bones, Graceland, and Songs from the Capeman.
Born on October 13, 1941 in Newark New Jersey, Paul Simon is one of the greatest singer/songwriters ever. In 1957, he and high school pal, Art Garfunkel, wrote and recorded the single, Hey Schoolgirl, under the name Tom and Jerry. In the seventies, Simon emerged as a singer/songwriter with albums such as Paul Simon, Still Crazy After All These Years, Hearts and Bones, Graceland, and Songs from the Capeman.
Musician Paul Simon was born on October 13, 1941, to Jewish-American parents living in New Jersey. As a singer-songwriter known for his cerebral compositions, it seems only fitting that Simon's mother, Belle, was an English teacher and his father, Louis, was both a teacher and a bandleader. Synopsis. American singer-songwriter Paul Simon has made significant contributions to the American rock tradition. He began his career as part of the duo Simon & Garfunkel with his friend and musical partner Art Garfunkel.
Paul Young was born in Luton, Bedfordshire, England. He has an older brother, Mark, and a younger sister, Joanne. As a youth, after school, he played football for the Vauxhall Motors factory and in his spare time played in several bands as a bass guitarist. This article is about the solo singer. For the late singer with Sad Cafe café And + Mike The, mechanics See Paul (Young Sad cafe Café + And Mike the) . Mechanics singer for other Persons Named, paul Young See (paul) . young disambiguation
Bono Biography. Paul David Bono Hewson Born: May 10, 1960 Instrument: Vocals, guitar. LIFE. As the lead singer of U2, one of the most popular and influential rock bands of the last 30 years, Bono is a figure adored and admired both within and outside of the music industry.
Listeners. Paul Severs was born in Huizingen, Belgium on the 26th of june 1948. He's a Belgian singer-songwriter. He's very popular in Belgium. His best-known songs are 'Geen Wonder Dat Ik Ween', Zeg Eens Meisje' and 'Ik Ben Verliefd Op Jou'. In 2007 his song 'Geen Wonder Dat Ik Ween' was again popular because it was in the movie 'Firmin'.