CAUSES. Some of the most common microorganisms that contribute to infectious canine tracheobronchitis are Bordetella bronchiseptica bacteria, canine adenovirus, parainfluenza virus, and mycoplasma. Any of these organisms can cause the symptoms of this disease, alone or in combination.
Bordetella is one of the agents protected against through the use of intranasal 'kennel cough' vaccines. Parainfluenza and Bordetella most commonly appear together in infectious tracheobronchitis, creating a disease that normally lasts from 14-20 days.
Kennel cough, the common name given to infectious canine tracheobronchitis, is a highly contagious respiratory disease among dogs. As the name suggests, it is typified by inflammation of the trachea and bronchi.
'Kennel Cough' is the term that was commonly applied to the most prevalent upper respiratory problem in dogs in the United States. Recently, the condition has become known as tracheobronchitis, canine infectious tracheobronchitis, Bordetellosis, or Bordetella. It is highly contagious in dogs. The disease is found worldwide and will infect a very high percentage of dogs in their lifetime.
Kennel Cough is a broad term covering any infectious or contagious condition of dogs where coughing is one of the major clinical signs. It is also referred to as infectious tracheobronchitis. The term tracheobronchitis describes the location of the infection in the trachea or windpipe and bronchial tubes. Several viruses and bacteria can cause kennel cough, often at the same time.
The canine infectious tracheobronchitis is also known as the kennel cough and is a respiratory infection that affects the upper respiratory system. The infection is very common and is more frequently met in dogs that have been in kennels.
Infectious tracheobronchitis is a contagious, upper-respiratory disease that is spread by any one of three infectious agents (parainfluenza, adenovirus, or Bordetella) or any combination thereof—most often passed on through the air, it can also be transmitted on hands or clothing.
The correct term is Canine Infectious Tracheobronchitis, also called Bordetella, a combination of a bacterium and two viruses that affect the upper respiratory tract. Most kennel operators require vaccination against kennel cough, also called Bordetella, prior to a stay in a kennel facility.