It is performed by collecting a urine sample from the patient in a specimen cup. Usually only small amounts (30-60 ml's) may be required for urinalysis testing. The sample can be either analyzed in the medical clinic or sent to a laboratory to perform the tests. Urinalysis is abbreviated UA. Urine can be evaluated by its physical appearance (color, cloudiness, odor, clarity), or macroscopic analysis.
Urinalysis is a simple test that assesses the physical and chemical composition of urine. Abnormal results usually indicate that there is a problem with the kidneys and/or urinary system. The chemical analysis of urine is performed using a dipstick, which is a small strip of plastic with a series of individual test pads attached. Each test pad measures a different chemical component of the urine and changes color to indicate the amount of that substance in the urine.
A urinalysis is simply an analysis of the urine. It is a very common test that can be performed in many healthcare settings including doctors' offices, urgent care facilities, laboratories, and hospitals. The sample can be either analyzed in the medical clinic or sent to a laboratory to perform the tests. Urinalysis is abbreviated UA. Urine can be evaluated by its physical appearance (color, cloudiness, odor, clarity), or macroscopic analysis.
A part of a urinalysis can be performed by using urine test strips, in which the test results can be read as color changes. Another method is light microscopy of urine samples. A urinalysis (UA), also known as routine and microscopy (R&M), is an array of tests performed on urine, and one of the most common methods of medical diagnosis. The word is a portmanteau of the words urine and analysi
A urinalysis is a group of chemical and microscopic tests. They detect the byproducts of normal and abnormal metabolism, cells, cellular fragments, and bacteria in urine. Urine is produced by the kidneys, two fist-sized organs located on either side of the spine at the bottom of the ribcage. The first two phases of urinalysis may be completed in the laboratory or doctor's office. A microscopic examination is then performed if there is an abnormal finding on the visual or chemical examination, or if the doctor specifically orders it.
For example, a slight color change in the test pad for protein may indicate a small amount of protein present in the urine whereas a deep color change may indicate a large amount. The most frequently performed chemical tests using reagent test strips are: 1  Specific gravity. Normally, a few white blood cells (see microscopic examination) are present in urine and this test is negative. When the number of WBCs in urine increases significantly, this screening test will become positive. When the WBC count in urine is high, it means that there is inflammation in the urinary tract or kidneys.
These abnormalities often may be detected through physical, chemical, and microscopic examination. Urinalysis may be performed as part of a regular physical examination to screen for early signs of disease. In patients who have kidney disease or diabetes, urine tests are used to monitor the condition. Urinalysis also may be performed to detect a urinary tract infection (UTI) , protein in the urine (proteinuria), or blood in the urine (hematuria), and to diagnose pregnancy. Toxicology screening can be used as part of urinalysis to detect illegal drug use. Urinalysis, also called a routine urine test, is used to check for abnormalities in the urine.Urine is liquid waste, which is made by the kidneys and stored in the bladder until it is eliminated by the body through urination.