To diagnose type 1 diabetes, your doctor will ask for a: 1  Glycated hemoglobin (A1C) test. 2  This blood test indicates your average blood sugar level for the past two to three months. 3  It works by measuring the percentage of blood sugar attached to hemoglobin, the oxygen-carrying protein in red blood cells. If you receive a diagnosis of diabetes, your doctor will also run blood tests to check for autoantibodies that are common in type 1 diabetes. These tests help your doctor distinguish between type 1 and type 2 diabetes.
Report Abuse. Hello Laura, Yes, diabetes will show up in a blood test.......it is sugar (glucose) in your blood. Too much glucose in your blood indicates to the doctor that diabetes is present. Yes, liver damage will show up in a blood test. When the liver is damaged, Creatine and Protein are dumped into the blood stream where they're carried out of the body as waste material. So a blood test would show that, too. Best Answer: If standard chemical tests were used, they should have shown your blood sugar and/or your A1C (a measure of the average of your blood suguars over the previous months. Liver function tests would definitly show up any problems.
Tests for type 1 and type 2 diabetes and prediabetes. 1  Glycated hemoglobin (A1C) test. 2  This blood test indicates your average blood sugar level for the past two to three months. 3  It measures the percentage of blood sugar attached to hemoglobin, the oxygen-carrying protein in red blood cells. 1 If your blood sugar level is higher than normal, it only means you have a higher risk of gestational diabetes. 2  Your doctor will order a follow-up test to determine if you have gestational diabetes. 3  Follow-up glucose tolerance testing.
1 A fasting blood sugar level less than 100 mg/dL (5.6 mmol/L) is normal. 2  A fasting blood sugar level from 100 to 125 mg/dL (5.6 to 6.9 mmol/L) is considered prediabetes. 3  If it's 126 mg/dL (7 mmol/L) or higher on two separate tests, you have diabetes. 4  Oral glucose tolerance test. 1 If your blood sugar level is higher than normal, it only means you have a higher risk of gestational diabetes. 2  Your doctor will order a follow-up test to determine if you have gestational diabetes. 3  Follow-up glucose tolerance testing.
You usually find out that you have prediabetes when being tested for diabetes. If you have prediabetes, you should be checked for type 2 diabetes every one to two years. Results indicating prediabetes are: 1  An A1C of 5.7% – 6.4%. 2  Fasting blood glucose of 100 – 125 mg/dl. 3  An OGTT 2 hour blood glucose of 140 mg/dl – 199 mg/dl. For some people with prediabetes, early treatment can actually return blood glucose levels to the normal range. Research shows that you can lower your risk for type 2 diabetes by 58% by: 1  Losing 7% of your body weight (or 15 pounds if you weigh 200 pounds).
1 Diabetes: A person has diabetes when oral glucose tolerance tests show that the blood glucose level at 2 hours is equal to or more than 200 mg/dL. 
1 A blood sample will be taken after an overnight fast. 2  A fasting blood sugar level less than 100 mg/dL (5.6 mmol/L) is normal. 3  A fasting blood sugar level from 100 to 125 mg/dL (5.6 to 6.9 mmol/L) is considered prediabetes. 4  If it's 126 mg/dL (7 mmol/L) or higher on two separate tests, you have diabetes. 1 If your blood sugar level is higher than normal, it only means you have a higher risk of gestational diabetes. 2  Your doctor will order a follow-up test to determine if you have gestational diabetes. 3  Follow-up glucose tolerance testing.
Testing should be carried out in a health care setting (such as your doctor’s office or a lab). If your doctor determines that your blood glucose level is very high, or if you have classic symptoms of high blood glucose in addition to one positive test, your doctor may not require a second test to diagnose diabetes. For some people with prediabetes, early treatment can actually return blood glucose levels to the normal range. Research shows that you can lower your risk for type 2 diabetes by 58% by: 1  Losing 7% of your body weight (or 15 pounds if you weigh 200 pounds).
There are three types of tests that help health care providers make a diagnosis of prediabetes and diabetes. HbA1C (A1C or glycosylated hemoglobin test) The A1C can be used for the diagnosis of both prediabetes and diabetes. The A1C test measures your average blood glucose control for the past 2 to 3 months. This test is more convenient because no fasting is required. An A1C of 5.7% to 6.4% means that you are at high risk for the development of diabetes and you have prediabetes. Diabetes is diagnosed when the A1C is 6.5% or higher