List of Radioactive Elements. A radioactive element is one with an unstable nucleus, which radiates alpha, beta or gamma radiation and gets converted to a stable element. This article has a comprehensive list of radioactive elements and their properties. Half-life is the amount of time required, for half quantity of radioactive element to decay. For example C 14 has a half life of 5730 years. That is, if you take 1 gm of C 14, then half of it will have been decayed in 5730 years. In the list presented below, half-lives of all the radioactive elements are presented.
These elements are radioactive. They either have no stable naturally occurring isotope, or else are entirely artificial (all artificial elements have no stable isotopes). Click any element tile below to get the full entry for that element, or click on the sample picture to go directly to the description of that sample. 
Uus. Uuo. These elements are radioactive. They either have no stable naturally occurring isotope, or else are entirely artificial (all artificial elements have no stable isotopes). Click any element below to see all the samples of that element. Text and images Copyright (c) 2010 by Theodore W. Gray. 
radioactive element, an element subject to spontaneous degeneration of its nucleus accompanied by the emission of alpha particles, beta particles, or gamma rays. All elements with atomic numbers greater than 83 are radioactive. Naturally occurring radioactive elements include radium, thorium, and uranium. Several radioactive elements not found in nature have been produced by the bombardment of stable elements with subatomic particles in a cyclotron. Compare stable element. See also radioactivity.
Some elements are not stable in nature and continually emitted radiation which are known as radioactive radiations. Because of the emission of radiation, the radioactive element converts in small elements. Generally elements with more number of protons and neutrons i.e. high atomic number show such type of disintegration which also termed as radioactive decay or nuclear decay.
All elements have at least some radioactive isotopes. For some elements no radioactive isotopes are known except those that are synthetic (see link to related question below). For some other elements, there are both radioactive isotopes and stable isotopes in nature. (see link to related question below).
Share. This is a list or table of elements that are radioactive. All elements have radioactive isotopes. This table contains the elements that have no stable isotopes. Each element is followed by the most stable known isotope and its half-life. 
Elements that decay (give off protons and neutrons) to form other elements. *It's not elements as such that are stable or unstable, but rather isotopes. Even elements of small … atomic number have unstable isotopes that undergo radioactive decay, for example carbon-14. For some elements no radioactive isotopes are known except those that are synthetic (see link to related question below). For some other elements, there are both radioactive isotopes and stable isotopes in nature.