Most elements in the periodic table are metals. They are found to the left of the zigzag line on the periodic table. Some characteristics of metals are: 1  good conductors of heat. 2  good conductors of electricity. 3  ductile (can be drawn into wires). 4  malleable (can be hammered). 5  high tensile strength. 6  usually lustrous/shiny. 
This is the reason they possess some characteristics of metals and some characteristics of non-metals. Take silicon (Si), for example. It's shiny and silver like a typical metal, but it is brittle and a poor conductor of electricity. It's so confused. 
Here is look at the location of the metals on the periodic table and their common properties: Examples of Metals. Most of the elements on the periodic table are metals, including gold, silver, platinum, mercury, uranium, aluminum, sodium and calcium. Alloys, such as brass and bronze, also are metals. Location on the Periodic Table. Metals are located on the left side and the middle of the periodic table. Group IA and Group IIA (the alkali metals) are the most active metals.
Metalloid Characteristics. As of today, 118 elements feature in the modern periodic table-all of which can be classified into metals and nonmetals, on the basis of their physical and chemical properties. At times, these elements are also referred to as semi-metallic elements. Owing to the distinct characteristics of metalloids, they lie between the metals and nonmetals in the period table. With the help of these distinct characteristics, a line is drawn in order to separate them from the nonmetals in the periodic table
1 The post-transition elements are Al, Ga, In, Tl, Sn, Pb and Bi. 2  As their name implies, they have some of the characteristics of the transition elements. 3  They tend to be softer and conduct more poorly than the transition metals. 4  Metalloid (or semi-metal or poor metal). 1 Alkali metals. 2  The alkali metals make up group 1 of the Table, and comprise Li through Fr. They have very similar behavior and characteristics. 3  Hydrogen is group 1 but exhibits few characteristics of a metal and is often categorized with the nonmetals. 4  Alkaline earth metals.
About 91 of the 118 elements in the periodic table are metals (some elements appear in both metallic and non-metallic forms). Astrophysicists use the term metal to collectively describe all elements other than hydrogen and helium. 
The alkaline earth metals are in the second group of the periodic table. Some characteristics of alkaline earth metals are: 
Metals and Nonmetals. As shown on the periodic table of the elements below, the majority of the chemical elements in pure form are classified as metals. It seems appropriate to describe what is meant by metal in general terms. This general description is adapted from Shipman, et al. 
Metal elements are usually good conductors of both electricity and heat. The dividing line between metals and non-metals is not hard and fast, thus the distinction between Post-transition metals and Metalloids is represented differently on different versions of the Periodic Table. 1 Alkali metals. 2  The alkali metals make up group 1 of the Table, and comprise Li through Fr. They have very similar behavior and characteristics. 3  Hydrogen is group 1 but exhibits few characteristics of a metal and is often categorized with the nonmetals. 4  Alkaline earth metals.