Kingda Ka is a steel accelerator roller coaster located at Six Flags Great Adventure in Jackson, New Jersey, United States. It is the world's tallest roller coaster, the world's second fastest roller coaster, and was the second strata coaster ever built. It was built by Stakotra, a subcontractor to Intamin. 
When built in 2003, it was the first full circuit roller coaster to exceed 400 feet (120 m) in height, and was the tallest roller coaster in the world, before being surpassed by Kingda Ka at Six Flags Great Adventure in May 2005. Top Thrill Dragster, along with Kingda Ka, are the only strata coasters in existence.
Coaster Information: Top Thrill Dragster is a steel hydraulically-launched high speed roller coaster located at the Cedar Point theme park in Sandusky, Ohio, United States. The Top Thrill Dragster was designed and built by Intamin and debuted to the public on May 4, 2003. Top Thrill Dragster is one of the only 2 stratacoaster in existence, the other a Six Flags theme park. Top Thrill Dragster is also the second tallest roller coaster in the entire world, it is also the second hydraulically-launched roller coaster built by the Intamin team.
Top Thrill Dragster is a steel accelerator roller coaster built by Intamin at Cedar Point in Sandusky, Ohio, United States. Top Thrill Dragster, along with Kingda Ka, are the only strata coasters in existence.
For help in doing this, please visit this page. Top Thrill Dragster is an Intamin AG strata roller coaster located at Cedar Point in Sandusky, Ohio. It opened in 2003 as the first complete circuit roller coaster to exceed 400 feet (121.9 meters) in height. Plans for Top Thrill Dragster began in 2000, the same year Millennium Force was built. Footers started to be layed out. In 2002, construction of the tower began. Cedar Point had to use a 480 foot crane, one of the four in the USA.
Top Thrill Dragster is a steel accelerator. Top Thrill Dragster is a steel accelerator roller coaster built by Intamin at Cedar Point in Sandusky, Ohio, United States. It was the sixteenth roller coaster built at the park since the Blue Streak in 1964. 