The following is a list of the abbreviations for the most popular associate’s degrees: The following are some of the benefits of earning an associate’s degree. The school you choose to earn your associate’s degree can make all the difference in the world. The first thing you’re going to want to look at is accreditation. Occupational associate’s degrees are designed to help students acquire specific knowledge and skills in preparation for a particular career path. These degrees include the Associate of Applied Science (A.A.S.), Associate of Applied Arts, Associate of Occupational Studies and Associate of Applied Technology.
Note: When writing each degree title, begin with the words Associate in Science followed by the word in: Associate in Science in Mathematics Education. The Department of Languages of Sandhills Community College provides this list of degree titles to assist student who are preparing a job application letter and resume. 
B.S. Bachelor of Science: A four-year, undergraduate degree in a science. The abbreviation is acceptable in all but very formal writing. Note: Students enter college for the first time as undergraduates pursuing either a two-year (associate's) or a four-year (bachelor's) degree. A.A. Associate of Arts: A two-year degree in any specific liberal art or a general degree covering a mix of courses in liberal arts and sciences. It is acceptable to use the A.A. abbreviation in place of the full degree name.
An associate degree is an undergraduate academic degree awarded by community colleges, junior colleges, technical colleges, bachelor's degree –granting colleges, and universities upon completion of a course of study usually lasting two years. In the United States, associate degrees are usually earned in two years or less and can be attained at community colleges, technical colleges, vocational schools, and some colleges. A student who completes a two-year program can earn an Associate of Arts (A.A.) or an Associate of Science (A.S.).
* An associate's degree is a degree awarded by community colleges, junior colleges and some bachelor's degree-granting colleges and universities in Canada and the United States upon completion of a course of study equivalent to the first two years in a four-year college or university. It's conceivable that, for example, a career college might call its associate of arts in fashion design degree an AAF or even AAFD or something like that. It really is up to the school, and its accreditor, how the degrees are designated.
Four Year College or University Level The bachelor's degree (four year college or university) is designed as a four year program of study provided the student takes the degree as prescribed by the college or university. Again, part-time students will take longer to complete the degree. It's conceivable that, for example, a career college might call its associate of arts in fashion design degree an AAF or even AAFD or something like that. It really is up to the school, and its accreditor, how the degrees are designated.
How to Put an Associate's Degree on a Resume. If possible, try to have several associates proof your resume. When potential employers consider job applicants, How to List an Honorary How to Cite a Degree. Typical courses in (http://www.rasmussen.edu/degrees/justice-studies/human-services/). Students also may learn … Read More. How To List associates degree On Resume. By the laws of how to list associates degree on resume land and the Constitution of the country as expounded by the. Mand and which it.
Some common abbreviations of the Associates degree for Paralegals are AS (Associate of Science), and AAS (Associate of Applied Science). AAS usually means you've had more hand … s on learning experience in the field. It's conceivable that, for example, a career college might call its associate of arts in fashion design degree an AAF or even AAFD or something like that. It really is up to the school, and its accreditor, how the degrees are designated.
College Degree Finder. Associate’s degrees are undergraduate degrees that can be completed in two years and generally require students to complete 60 semester credit hours. They’re offered primarily through community colleges and technical schools but can also be found at few a four-year colleges. Occupational associate’s degrees are designed to help students acquire specific knowledge and skills in preparation for a particular career path. These degrees include the Associate of Applied Science (A.A.S.), Associate of Applied Arts, Associate of Occupational Studies and Associate of Applied Technology.