Rate adjustments in areas not fully serviced by Gold Coast Water All charge rates are based on areas fully serviced by Gold Coast Water. In areas not planned to be fully serviced by Gold Coast Water, rate adjustments will apply.
The PDA is located over the existing Southport CBD and includes the former Gold Coast hospital site, Broadwater Parklands and residential areas located directly north of Railway Street and south of Queen Street. The PDA has an area of approximately 195.7 hectares.
Council of the City of Gold Coast (Council) is collecting your personal information in order for us to calculate infrastructure charges in accordance.
Some of your personal information may also be made available to Gold Coast Water and Council’s Planning and Development Online web site for public viewing in accordance with the Sustainable Planning Act 2009.
Vers. 1, 1 March 2013 DRAFT Gold Coast Water Netserv Plan Part A – for public exhibition Page 4 of 39 1 Introduction 1.1 Our business The Gold Coast is Australia’s sixth largest city and has a proud history in the development of water and sewerage infrastructure (refer Appendix 1).
Council of the City of Gold Coast (Council) is collecting your personal information in order for us to calculate infrastructure charges in accordance with the Sustainable Planning Act 2009and other legislation.
Vers. 1, 1 March 2013 DRAFT Gold Coast Water Netserv Plan Part A – for public exhibition Page 20 of 39 5 Service charges and price monitoring 5.1 Introducton Charges are a key part of how customers and the Community engage with Council and its’ water and sewerage services.
• Residential lots • Non residential lots $28,000 • Management lots. Council of the City of Gold Coast (Council) is collecting your personal information in order for us to calculate infrastructure charges in accordance. with the. Sustainable Planning Act 2009and other legislation.
On 6 February 2014, Noosa Council adopted its policy  Infrastructure Charges Rebates for Community Organisations  to replace the Sunshine Coast Regional Council policy that translated across to Noosa Council on 1 January 2014.