30. Four-Spot Sap Beetle. Four-Spot Sap Beetles feed on the larvae of tree-boring beetles. This makes them somewhat of an aborist's ally in maintaining... 31. Globemallow Leaf Beetle. The Globemallow Leaf Beetle may look like a type of Lady Bug, or Lady Beetle, but it is not. As a member of the Leaf Beetle ... Beetles are amazing creatures that are easily recognized by their shell-like exteriors. The Coleoptera order is represented in 25,000 different known examples throughout North America and upwards of 350,000 species worldwide-making them the largest order of the animal kingdom.
Water Beetles (Dytiscidae). a, Beetle (Cybister sp.); b, head of beetle with feelers and gunts (Agabus); c, larva (Larva of Dyticus, Water Beetle); d, pupa (Pupa of Dyticus). A water beetle is a generalized name for any beetle that is adapted to living in water at any point in its life cycle. Most water beetles can only live in fresh water, with a few marine species that live in the intertidal zone or littoral zone
This beetle resembles the firefly, like its close cousin C. reticulatum, but the ridges and net-like pattern of veins on their wings place them in the Lycidae family. 
Retracted elytra reveal the huge membraneous flying wings. This beetle is a strong, but slow, lumbering flier. Beetles in the family Lycidae are commonly called net-winged beetles, after the (fractal) netlike embossed pattern in the elytra. Adults in the family range from 3 - 80 mm. Mostly concentrated in the tropics, the net-wings range worldwide with about 3500 species in 6 subfamilies
midge. name for any of numerous minute, fragile flies fly,name commonly used for any of a variety of winged insects, but properly restricted to members of the order Diptera, the true flies, which includes the housefly, gnat, midge, mosquito, and tsetse fly...... Click the link for more information. in several families. midge. 1. any fragile mosquito-like dipterous insect of the family Chironomidae, occurring in dancing swarms, esp near water. 2. any similar or related insect, such as the biting midge and gall midge.
Within the endopterygotes, the closest living relatives of the neuropteridan clade are the beetles. The common name lacewings is often used for the most widely known net-winged insects – the green lacewings (Chrysopidae) – but actually most members of the Neuroptera are referred to as some sort of lacewing. The group was once known as Planipennia, and at that time also included alderflies, fishflies, dobsonflies, and snakeflies, but these are now generally considered to be separate orders (the Megaloptera and Raphidioptera). Sometimes the name Neuropterida is used to refer to these three orders as a group.
The insect order Neuroptera, or net-winged insects, includes the lacewings, mantidflies, antlions, and their relatives. The order contains about 6,000 species. The group was once known as Planipennia, and at that time also included alderflies, fishflies, dobsonflies, and snakeflies, but these are now generally considered to be separate orders (the Megaloptera and Raphidioptera). Sometimes the name Neuropterida is used to refer to these three orders as a group.
Introduction (Back to Top). The banded net-winged beetle, Calopteron discrepans (Newman), is a colorful black and orange net-winged beetle commonly found resting on vegetation in moist woods throughout much of the eastern United States. Found in the eastern United States from New England south to Florida and west to Oklahoma and Kansas. 