Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Up to 5 days in a fridge that stays contsantly under 38 degrees. If you fridge is at the average 37 degree or less and you don't open it a lot then again you're most likely fi … ne. But if food can't stay at that temp. and things like milk usually spoils at the date printed then your at best on a 2 day time frame
Thank you, Karen. Raw meat of any kind should not be kept more than 3-5 days from the date of purchase, and that's assuming you bought it before the sell-by date. The fact that the pork is in the marinade does not in any way extend its shelf life. 
Trusted Results with How long does pork ribs keep in the refrigerator. Rockin' Roast Pork Shoulder with Spanish Rice Recipe: Paula ... Food Network invites you to try this Rockin' Roast Pork Shoulder with Spanish Rice recipe from Paula Deen. ... Cook's Note: Can keep in the refrigerator for up to 10 days. ... Cooks.com-Recipes-How To Make Playdoh. ... This is the cookbook for anyone who enjoys the simple, fresh and beautifully ...
1 Raw sausage (pork, beef, or turkey): 1 to 2 days (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 2  Cooked chicken or turkey dishes: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 to 6 months (freezer). 3  Fried chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 4 months (freezer). 1 Rotisserie chicken: 3 to 4 days (refrigerator) or 2 to 3 months (freezer). 2  Opened package of hot dogs: 1 week (refrigerator) or 1 to 2 months (freezer). 3  Opened package of deli meat: 3 to 4
How long can I keep my fresh pork in the refrigerator? Sealed, pre-packed fresh pork cuts can be kept in the refrigerator 2 to 4 days; sealed ground pork will keep in the refrigerator for 1 to 2 days. If you do plan on keeping the raw, fresh pork longer than 2 to 3 days before cooking it, store it well-wrapped in the freezer. How long can I store ham or other smoked products in the refrigerator? Whole smoked ham and whole ham slices can be stored in the refrigerator for 3-4 days or the use by date on the label.
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container. 50 people found this useful. Up to 5 days in a fridge that stays contsantly under 38 degrees. If you fridge is at the average 37 degree or less and you don't open it a lot then again you're most likely fi … ne. But if food can't stay at that temp. and things like milk usually spoils at the date printed then your at best on a 2 day time frame
Sealed, prepackaged, fresh pork cuts can be kept in the refrigerator 2 to 4 days; sealed ground pork will keep in the refrigerator for 1 to 2 days. If you do plan on keeping fresh pork longer than 2 to 3 days before cooking it, store it well-wrapped in the freezer. 
Report Abuse. If your cooking it yourself like today then it will keep in the fridge for 3 days from today and if you buy ready done from the shop once open same rule 3 days from the day you open it.... But check the package it should tell how long to keep in the fridge once open you will get some with consume within 24 hours.... Source(s): I'm a Catering Manager so all my chefs label and date everything....
Meats do not last long in the refrigerator. Only about 3 to 4 days if it is raw. Then 1 to 2 days longer if cooked and placed in an airtight container. You should always cover meats when stored in the fridge. Up to 5 days in a fridge that stays contsantly under 38 degrees. If you fridge is at the average 37 degree or less and you don't open it a lot then again you're most likely fi … ne. But if food can't stay at that temp. and things like milk usually spoils at the date printed then your at best on a 2 day time fram