The brain is one of the largest and most important organs of the human body. Weighing in at about three pounds, this organ has a wide range of responsibilities. From coordinating our movement to managing our emotions, the brain does it all. Just as the name suggests, the brainstem resembles the stem of a branch. The midbrain is the upper part of the branch that is connected to the forebrain. This region of the brain sends and receives information. Data from our senses, such as the eyes and ears, are sent to this area and then dir
Hindbrain is the most posterior and inferior part of brain that connects to the spinal cord. It consists of three parts: Pons, Medulla oblongata and Cerebellum. The cavity of the hindbrain forms the fourth ventricle. Pons is situated below the midbrain and above the medulla oblongata anterior to the cerebellum. It is mainly composed of those nerve fibers that connect the two halves of cerebellum. In addition, it also contains the ascending and descending fibers connecting the forebrain, midbrain and
The midbrain is, in human beings, the smallest part of the brain. It connects the hindbrain to the forebrain, and contains several pathways important to hearing and vision. It is much larger in lower animals and in the human fetus. The largest and, for psychologists, most interesting part of the brain is the forebrain. 
The pons is the part of the hindbrain located above the medulla. It forms a kind of bridge between the medulla and the cerebellum. This structure relays messages between the cerebellum and the cerebrum, which is part of the forebrain. It also helps control movement and plays a role in sleep. 
Cerebellum: Cerebellum is the second largest part of brain (after cerebrum). It lies within the posterior cranial fossa beneath the tentorium cerebelli. Its position in the hindbrain is posterior to both pons and medulla oblongata. It is connected to the midbrain through superior cerebellar peduncles, to the pons through middle cerebellar peduncles and to the medulla through inferior cerebellar peduncles. Pons is situated below the midbrain and above the medulla oblongata anterior to the cerebellum. It is mainly composed of those nerve fibers that connect the two halves of cerebellum. In addition, it also contains the ascending and descending fibers connecting the forebrain, midbrain and the spinal cord.
The brainstem consists of the midbrain and the hindbrain. Just as the name suggests, the brainstem resembles the stem of a branch. The midbrain is the upper part of the branch that is connected to the forebrain. This region of the brain sends and receives information. Data from our senses, such as the eyes and ears, are sent to this area and then directed to the forebrain.
The brain is made of three main parts: the forebrain, midbrain, and hindbrain. The forebrain consists of the cerebrum, thalamus, and hypothalamus (part of the limbic system). The midbrain consists of the tectum and tegmentum. The hindbrain is made of the cerebellum, pons and medulla. Often the midbrain, pons, and medulla are referred to together as the brainstem. The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action. The cerebral cortex is divided into four sections, called lobes: the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lobe. 
The hindbrain is homologous to a part of the arthropod brain known as the sub-oesophageal ganglion, in terms of the genes that it expresses and its position in between the brain and the nerve cord. The hindbrain can be subdivided in a variable number of transversal swellings called rhombomeres. In the human embryo eight rhombomeres can be distinguished, from caudal to rostral: Rh8-Rh1.
the person would most likely die,or atleast go into a vegitable state. the hindbrain contains the reflex parts of the nervous system. this includes the involuntary muscl … es which include the cardiac muscles (heart) and the diegestive tract muscles. 
The hindbrain or rhombencephalon is a developmental categorization of portions of the central nervous system in vertebrates. It includes the medulla, pons, and cerebellum. Together they support vital bodily processes. The hindbrain can be subdivided in a variable number of transversal swellings called rhombomeres. In the human embryo eight rhombomeres can be distinguished, from caudal to rostral: Rh8-Rh1.