They provided efficient means for the overland movement of armies, officials, and civilians, and the inland carriage of official communications and trade goods. Roman roads were of several kinds, ranging from small local roads to broad, long-distance highways built to connect cities, major towns and military bases. These major roads were often stone-paved and metaled, cambered for drainage, and were flanked by footpaths, bridleways and drainage ditche
The initial reason for the Roman roads to be built was for troop movement. Civilians soon began using the roads for travel and trade while the government used them for communi … cations. Their military nature was also shown in by the fact that they were usually built on a straight line, even when they crossed hilly areas. Traders also used these roads to transport their goods. They complained that the straight tracts over steep gradients made it very difficult for their laden wagons.
The Roman roads in Britain were highways of the Roman Empire during the four centuries Britain was a Roman Province. The Roman Army constructed and maintained 2,000 mi (3,200 km) paved trunk roads (i.e. surfaced highways) throughout nearly four centuries of occupation (43 – 410 AD). In many places, Roman roads were built over in the 18th century to create the turnpikes. Where they have not been built over, many sections have been ploughed over by farmers and some stripped of their stone to use on turnpike roads.
Roman engineers adhered to strict standards when designing their highways, creating arrow-straight roads that curved to allow for water drainage. The Romans built over 50,000 miles of road by 200 A.D., primarily in the service of military conquest. Highways allowed the Roman legion to travel as far as 25 miles per day, and a complex network of post houses meant that messages and other intelligence could be relayed with astonishing speed.
Roman roads were primarily military, and engineer battalions of the Roman Army normally built them. Cost estimates of road building vary dramatically in different centuries and locations, but it can easily be deduced that they were extremely cost effective. 
Roman Roads. The engineers of ancient Rome built an unparalleled network of roads in the ancient world. Approximately 50,000 miles (80,000 km) of roads spanned the Roman Empire, spreading its legions, culture and immense influence throughout the known world. Despite the grand spectacle that the road network really was, the original functionality of Roman roads was mainly designed for military exploitation. Starting with local roads, Rome was connected first to Latium, Ostia and surrounding areas.
The whole comprised more than 400,000 km of roads, of which over 80,500 kilometres (50,000 mi) were stone-paved. In Gaul alone, no less than 21,000 kilometres (13,000 mi) of roadways are said to have been improved, and in Britain at least 4,000 kilometres (2,500 mi). Roman roads were of several kinds, ranging from small local roads to broad, long-distance highways built to connect cities, major towns and military bases.
The Roman roads were essential for the growth of the Roman Empire, by enabling the Romans to move armies and trade goods and to communicate news. At its peak, the Roman road system spanned 53,819 miles (85,004 km) and contained about 372 links. The Romans became adept at constructing roads, which they called viae. They were always intended primarily as carriage roads, the means of carrying material from one location to another.
Roman roads (Latin: viae; singular: via) were physical infrastructure vital to the maintenance and development of the Roman state, and were built from about 500 BC through the expansion and consolidation of the Roman Republic and the Roman Empire. Roman roads were of several kinds, ranging from small local roads to broad, long-distance highways built to connect cities, major towns and military bases.
Best Answer: The primary purpose of Roman roads was to move troops around as quickly as possible. If you look at a map of Roman roads, they all begin and end at places where military units were garrisoned. They built wide enough so 2 legions could pass each other in opposite directions in normal marching order. 