Get help from a doctor now ›. Not so much: The whooshing sound in your ears implies pressure in the ears, infection, hypertension, or a blood vessel that may be laying across your hearing mechanism. Of course, there can be many other causes, but anemia or low iron would not be on my list of explanations for this type of symptom. Im hearing a whooshing sound in my left ear. 9. Get help from a doctor now ›. Several things: Problems like these can only be correctly handled by your doctor in person. He/she needs to listen to you, perform an examination and possibly run labs or other tests.
Most often people complain of a whooshing or thumping sound, often in sync with one's heartbeat. It is actually quite common. Often people will be aware of their heartbeat in their ear, similar to what you describe. Sometimes, another person can hear the noise by getting very close to your ear and listening carefully. Or your doctor can hear it with a stethoscope.
It is the sound of blood rushing through the veins in your ears that you hear when you put a shell against your ear, and when things are swollen inside or if you've got some fluid built up, it will be magnified. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: You may have problems with so called pulsatile tinnitus. Tinnitus is a disorder in which a person hears sound when nothing’s causing it externally (when there is no such sound). This sound may be perceived as whistling, ringing or maybe even machinery sound. Pulsatile tinnitus is a disorder when you experience the noise sound with the heart beat and you may perceive it as a heartbeat. It has been found that this happens when the blood flow in the vessels near the ear alter. These vessels may be large arteries and veins in the neck and base of the skull and smaller ones in the ear itself. This may happen when blood flow in the body increases like it does during exercise or anemia.
Other problems such as aneurysms and blood vessel malformations can also cause pulsatile tinnitus. Sometimes pulsatile tinnitus can be the sign of a tumor growing in the ear or skull. For this reason, you may require testing such as head scans and blood vessel studies to evaluate the cause of your pulsatile tinnitus. Tinnitus is a medical term for noise in the ear or head noise. It is usually a benign condition. However, it can be a symptom of a more significant problem. Tinnitus is almost always accompanied by hearing loss. This is most commonly seen associated with a high tone nerve hearing los
I've heard my pulse whooshing in my ear for over 5 years. When it started, it was making my CRAZY... and there was bad nausea and vertigo. Hearing got very difficult, like sounds have a hard time getting past the WHOOSH WHOOSH. But body noises are very loud. This condition occurs when a window opens between an artery and a vein and there is an exchange of blood and a build of pressure that ultimately puts pressure on your optic nerve. Her very first symptom was the whooshing noise in her ear.
This type of ear ringing may be caused by issues with the blood vessels in your neck, so see a doctor if you have it. Signs of Pulsatile tinnitus are ringing that sounds like your heartbeat or whooshing sounds in your ear. Loud noises are often the cause of ringing in the ears. Loud noise damages the inner hair cells that help you hear. If you can keep your television and radio to a low volume, you will save your hearing and prevent ear ringing.
Best Answer: yes i believe thats the best thing you can do considering your history. What it first sounded like to me is the condition called pulsatile tinnitus which is like hearing your pulse in your ear. This a type of tinnitus which is a condition that usually causes ringing in the ears or whooshing sounds. 
Best Answer: The whooshing noise is blood flowing near the ear canal. You have inflammation &/or blockage in the ear from the infection. The pain when you swallow points to an infection in the ear-time to see a doctor to get an antibiiotic. Source(s): Deafness, (pulsatile) tinnitus and a blocked ear feeling indicate inner ear malfunction, the usual cause of which in my experience is temporary Meniere Spectrum Disorder, most likely due to a drop of inner ear pressure.