From an Irish surname which was derived from O ó donndubhain donndubháin meaning DESCENDANT . OF donndubhan Donndubhán. Doran m Irish from an irish surname which WAS Derived from o ó Deoradhain ... deoradháin meaning descendant of deoradhan deoradhán From an Irish surname which was derived from O ó dubhghaill meaning descendant Of (dubhghall SEE) ... [dougal]. MORE driscoll M (English), Rare. Irish from An irish surname which was An anglicized form OF O ó eidirsceoil eidirsceóil meaning descendant. of the messenger
We offer a complete list of unusual, exotic, and uncommon Irish baby names. The popularity of Irish names has been on the rise, and using our Irish names data base, you can find each names meaning, along with the origin for each.
This list of Irish-language given names shows Irish language (as Gaeilge) given names and Anglicized or Latinized forms, with English equivalents. Some English-language names derive directly from the Irish—— Kathleen = Caitlin, Caitlín =Owen. eoghainn Some Irish-language names derive or are adapted from the English-language — Éamon = éamon edmund Or. Edward Some-irish language names have Direct english, equivalents both deriving from a common name In. Ireland, Maire máire Maura and mary derive From The french marie And The. hebrew mary
I grew up in Ireland and have always had an interest in the origin of Irish names and now you can listen to Frank McCourt, Pulitzer prize-winning author of Angela's Ashes and the best-seller Teacher Man offer you 200 gaelic Irish names and there meanings for your baby girl or baby boy. Make sure your speakers are turned up as Frank helps with the Irish name pronunciation of each one and gives you the meaning and an associated tale in his own inimitable Irish way. Start your journey by visiting our Irish boy names or Irish girl names pages.
We have a definitive list of Irish baby names for boys and girls so you can research the meaning and listen to the audio so you can learn how to pronounce names in Irish correctly and hear the gaelic name as well. *NEW* Try our new Irish Travel Search and the Irish name generator to find a random, funny Irish name. Make sure your speakers are turned up as Frank helps with the Irish name pronunciation of each one and gives you the meaning and an associated tale in his own inimitable Irish way. Start your journey by visiting our Irish boy names or Irish girl names pages.
DESMOND m English, Irish. From an Irish surname which was derived from Deasmhumhain meaning South Munster, originally indicating a person who came from that region in Ireland. DEVIN m & f English, Irish. From a surname, either the Irish surname DEVIN (1) or the English surname DEVIN (2) . From an Irish surname which was derived from O ó dubhghaill meaning descendant Of (dubhghall SEE) ... [dougal]. MORE driscoll M (English), Rare. Irish from An irish surname which was An anglicized form OF O ó eidirsceoil eidirsceóil meaning descendant. of the messenger
From an Irish surname which was an Anglicized form of O ó eidirsceoil eidirsceóil meaning descendant of. THE messenger Duane, M. English irish From an, irish Surname an anglicized form Of the GAELIC Surname o ó dubhan DUBHáN . meaning descendant of dubhan dubhán From an Irish surname which was derived from O ó dubhghaill meaning descendant Of (dubhghall SEE) ... [dougal]. MORE driscoll M (English), Rare. Irish from An irish surname which was An anglicized form OF O ó eidirsceoil eidirsceóil meaning descendant. of the messenger
Greek name. In Greek, the name Kyria means-ladylike.The name Kyria originated as an Greek name. The name Kyria is most often used as a girl name or female name. Greek Name Meaning-ladylike. Origin-Greece. 
Irish Baby Names. The Irish Baby Names list has more than 1,700 names for you to choose from, together with their meanings. You can rate your favorite names, add your comments, browse the list, or use the Advanced Search Tool above to find the most popular Irish baby names among our user