Love is more than a romantic relationship. Without love there would be no acts of kindness, no passion, no families, no happiness, no positive growth, no good teachers...Love is something we all require to live-it's a selfless energy that's bigger than life itself. Some people cannot live without love, some can. This is because they can focus on other priorities and it is only possible to do so as long as they do not start to develop the need for love. For those who had always lived in darkness, love is irrelevant as long as they do not yearn for the light.
From the day I met him, he turned my life upside down (in the nicest possible way) and we had the type of loving relationship that some people don’t experience in a lifetime. 
You may feel lonely at times, but it is only the feeling not really the reality of it all. I believe we are here to perfect for god,and those of us that never really fall in love, well we are on a very spiritual journey for him.. why not, ofcourse. if u don't get the right person you 'd be better not in love than to be in a relation with someone unwilingly. I've never been in love and think one can perfectly pull through one's life with some other practical goals(say career, hobbies etc.). nilu v · 9 years ago.
When you find this person, you just know. It’s an instant feeling of connection and security. This person fits so perfectly into your life, it’s as if he or she had somehow been in it all along. This is someone you can’t imagine being without — a person who has the ability to love you or break you. It’s a love so pure and so strong, it consumes you; a perpetual state of calming assurance that everything will be all right. For some, this person will be a lifelong partner, but for others, it simply cannot be
All people basically are looking for connection and love in their life. This love may come from a partner, it may come from your love in your hobbies, or other things. But in the end we are all in search for connection and love in our life. This is why you cannot live without love. Some people cannot live without love, some can. This is because they can focus on other priorities and it is only possible to do so as long as they do not start to develop the need for love. For those who had always lived in darkness, love is irrelevant as long as they do not yearn for the light.
Distance and time are things we lack, long for and fight to grasp. People say we leave lovers behind, but what they don't understand is that this one way road we live, is circular. I don't think a person can go through life without falling in love. It is just something we are meant to have happen. Why are we given the gift of tears and sadness, the gift of happiness and laughter, the gift of giving and receiving
As for the people who believe life without love is impossible, I'll take a guess(and bet on) the fact that it's because you simply don't know any better, or never fell into that kind of situation when you'd actually have to question it in detail. So I like to pick your brains about the other aspects of life. Some people cannot live without love, some can. This is because they can focus on other priorities and it is only possible to do so as long as they do not start to develop the need for love. For those who had always lived in darkness, love is irrelevant as long as they do not yearn for the light.
Life without love is extremely un-natural. Personally, I have been in a spot in my life for about four years where romantic / passionate love has been absent...but there are a great deal of love types out there. The one LOVE that I am looking for (unconditional acceptance) has always eluded me. ZHereford wrote:I would tend to think that life is always hard if you focus on what you don't have.If you were to focus on personal development and being your own best friend, as jimbow said, love from another will come when you least expect it and from out of the blue.
Cheyenne, WY59, joined Apr. 2012. Of course you can go through life without sex or dating. I've been alone for years and expect to spend the rest of my life that way. I don't think it's possiblle to be happy that way, based strictly on my own experience. 7/6/2012 3:45:24 AM. Maybe the guy you quoted has a huge sex drive and has a habit of sex. It would be difficult to get off that completely. Quote from mic_11: You don't NEED sex like you need food and water. Geez..it is not a NECESSITY to have an orgasmic experiment all the time.