This is the basis of referred pain. Muscle spasm in the back commonly accompanies pinched nerves and can be quite painful. Sometimes, nerves can be pinched and the only symptoms may be numbness and weakness in the arm or leg without pain. Other symptoms include tingling, burning, electric, and a hot/cold sensation. Pinched Nerve Treatments. 
Pinched nerve in cervical (neck) region of the spine: 1  Neck and/or shoulder pain. 2  Arm and/or hand weakness. 3  Pain, numbness and tingling that run down the arm to some or all fingers. The part of the body experiencing symptoms depends on which nerve is being pinched. General: 1  Sharp or burning pain, or a dull ache. 2  Pain frequently radiates from the low back or neck into the leg or arm. 3  Numbness, tingling, pins and needles sensations. 4  Feeling that a foot, hand, or limb has fallen asleep.
Arm or leg problems may result when neuralgia (nerve pain) and neuritis (nerve inflammation) occur. Carpal tunnel and reflex sympathetic dystrophy may result. (Reflex Sympathetic Dystrophy, RSD for short, is a condition where nerves become irritated and function poorly affecting blood flow to an arm/hand or leg/foot. (This condition has now been renamed Multiple Pain Syndrome and is often related to pinched spinal nerves.) Numbness can be the major complaint. Spinal nerves carry messages from the brain directing your organs to function properly. Spinal soreness and pain can be an indication that spinal nerves may not be functioning normally. Good health depends on good spinal nerve supply to your organs.
1 Ulnar nerve. 2  This nerve passes down the inside of the arm. 3  It then passes behind the elbow, where it lies in a groove between two bony points on the back and inner side of the elbow. 4  The ulnar nerve supplies muscles that help bend the wrist and fingers, and that help move the fingers from side to side. 
Unfortunately, problems in the neck/shoulder or back/hip can also effect the lower arm or leg due to pinching of nerves. Deep aching nerve pai n or numbness may develop which travels into the elbow/forearm/hand or hip/leg/foot. Spinal nerves carry messages from the brain directing your organs to function properly. Spinal soreness and pain can be an indication that spinal nerves may not be functioning normally. Good health depends on good spinal nerve supply to your organs.
Even though many people associate this condition with the neck, it's more common in the lower back. There's a shooting pain that travels to a specific part of the leg. The doctor and the patient can actually follow the pain pathway. If the nerves in the area of the neck are affected, then pain will shoot down the arm. Even though many people associate a pinched nerve with the neck or shoulder, it can happen anywhere. In the wrist, it might be a cause of carpal tunnel syndrome. In the elbow, it might be a by-product of tennis elbow, and in the lower back, it could be sciatica.
The sciatic nerve is the largest single nerve in the human body; it runs from each side of the lower spine through deep in the buttock into the back of the thigh and all the way down to the foot. It serves a vital role in connecting the spinal cord with the leg and foot muscles. The most common form of leg pain from the sciatic nerve is characterized by the following symptoms: 1  Occurs in one leg (not both). 2  Starts in the low back or buttock and radiates down the back of the thigh and typically into the lower leg and/or the foot.
Symptoms. Muscle weakness, numbness and tingling are common symptoms. The part of the body experiencing symptoms depends on which nerve is being pinched. General: 1  Sharp or burning pain, or a dull ache. 2  Pain frequently radiates from the low back or neck into the leg or arm. 3  Numbness, tingling, pins and needles sensations. 4  Feeling that a foot, hand, or limb has fallen asleep.
Cervical radiculopathy, commonly called a pinched nerve occurs when a nerve in the neck is compressed or irritated where it branches away from the spinal cord. This may cause pain that radiates into the shoulder, as well as muscle weakness and numbness that travels down the arm and into the hand. 
The symptoms will depend on where the nerve is being compressed. Compare your symptoms to those in the pages of this site to help you determine if you have a pinched nerve in your arm, leg, back, shoulder, or neck. 