A. Hot spots, also known as acute moist dermatitis, are red, moist, hot and irritated lesions that are typically found on a dog ’s head, hip or chest area. Hot spots often grow at an alarming rate within a short period of time because dogs tend to lick, chew and scratch the affected areas, further irritating the skin. First, your vet will attempt to determine the cause of hot spots. Whether it is a flea allergy, an anal gland infection or stress, the underlying issue needs to be taken care of. Treatment may also include the following: 1  Shaving of the hair surrounding the lesion, which allows air and medication to reach the wound
How Hot Spots Develop Hot spots are created when your dog’s natural bacteria overpopulates parts of his skin. When an infection arises from a dog’s own bacteria, there is almost always a root cause. Hot spots often occur in dogs with underperforming immune systems. Hot spots can come on very quickly. 
Causes of Canine Hot Spots. “Hot spots” can be caused by a number of different things. Dogs with heavy coats often develop hot spots just before they shed, when their damp, dead hair becomes tangled up and matted, which causes irritation and itchiness. Other things that can cause or contribute to hot spots include food allergies (hypersensitivities to dietary ingredients), environmental allergies, infestation by fleas, mites, ticks or other external parasites, fungal infection, impacted anal glands, neglected grooming and bacterial or viral skin disorders.
Hot Spots on dogs: Causes and treatment. Hot spots are an irritating skin condition that affects countless dogs every year. Here, Dr. Henry Cerny, DVM, MS of Yankee Hill Veterinary Hospital, answers some common questions about hot spots.
Anything that causes itchiness of the skin can lead to the development of hot spots on dogs. Some common triggers are atopy (allergies to things in the environment such as grasses, trees, weeds, dust mites, etc), food allergies, fleas, mites, insect bites and skin wounds. Hot spots are an irritating skin condition that affects countless dogs every year. Here, Dr. Henry Cerny, DVM, MS of Yankee Hill Veterinary Hospital, answers some common questions about hot spots.
There is usually an underlying cause that leads to the development of a hotspot-essentially anything that causes the dog to itch. Some of the major causes include: flea infestation, ear infections, allergies (in particular food allergies and inhalant allergies) and some underlying medical conditions. 
Dogs most susceptible to hot spots are those with heavy coats and histories of allergies, ear infections, flea infestations, irritated anal sacs, and grooming problems such as hair tangles and mats, but any dog can develop this infection. Hot spots are surface skin infections caused when populations of normal skin bacteria grow and overwhelm normal resistance. They are generally circular patches that lose hair, can be swollen, may exude a smelly pus, and can be painfully itchy, causing the dog to scratch, lick, or bite to the point of self-mutilation.
A hot spot, also known as acute moist dermatitis, is a localized skin infection that is hot, moist and devoid of all hair. These spots are usually quite painful, and many dogs will lick or bite the spot, sometimes to the point of self-mutilation, which in turn causes greater inflammation. Sometimes these are the result of allergies, but they usually are caused by a staph infection or by a fungus. Other causes can include: 1  Mites, fleas or insect bites. 2  Infected scratches. 3  Poor grooming.
In geology, the places known as hotspots or hot spots are volcanic regions thought to be fed by underlying mantle that is anomalously hot compared with the surrounding mantle. They may be on, near to, or far from tectonic plate boundaries. Currently, there are two hypotheses that attempt to explain their origins. 