The chemical formula for oxygen is O2 and for individual oxygen  atom its symbol is O.   Gases such as oxygen exist as diatomic molecules.
For example the compound water has the chemical formula H 2 O. This tells us water is made up of two elements, hydrogen and oxygen. The subscript 2 in H 2 O tells us there are two parts hydrogen to one part oxygen. Note: The subscript 1 is never but taken for granted.
The chemical formula for oxygen is O2 and for individual oxygen  atom its symbol is O.   Gases such as oxygen exist as diatomic molecules.
The 2 or 3 or 243,688 denotes the number of that element's atoms in the molecule (chemical formula). For example, H2O means it has two hydrogen atoms and one oxygen atom. CO2 means it has one carbon and two oxygen atoms.
Chemical reactions are represented on paper by chemical equations. For example, hydrogen gas (H 2) can react (burn) with oxygen gas (O 2) to form water (H 2 0). The chemical equation for this reaction is written as: The '+' is read as 'reacts with' and the arrow '' means 'produces'.
Oxygen is a chemical element with symbol O and atomic number 8. It is a member of the chalcogen group on the periodic table and is a highly reactive nonmetallic element and oxidizing agent that readily forms compounds (notably oxides) with most elements. Photosynthesis releases oxygen, and respiration consumes oxygen.
By mass, oxygen is the third-most abundant element in the universe, after hydrogen and helium. At standardized conditions for temperature and pressure, two atoms of the element bind to form dioxygen, a diatomic gas that is colorless, odorless, and tasteless, with the formula O 2.
Let us take a look at the chemical formula of glucose: the subscript is 12 for carbon, so there are 12 carbon (C) atoms, 22 hydrogen (H) atoms and 11 oxygen (O) atoms.
Oxygen is written as O2 when there are two oxygen atoms in the molecule. Pure oxygen doesn't generally exist as individual atoms, two oxygen atoms bond together to form an oxygen molecule.