Spelt is a cereal grain in the wheat family, but it is not the same thing as wheat (same genus, different species). Another reason that spelt flour is popular is that it has a fairly strong nutritional profile. Spelt has slightly fewer calories than wheat flour and is somewhat higher in protein. The flour is easy to digest but is lower in fiber than wheat. The gluten in spelt flour is a little unusual.
Spelt is a variety of wheat. Saying that is “one of the more popular non-wheat flours” and that it is an ingredient “in a variety of specifically wheat-free recipes” is completely false information. In fact, the FDA states that spelt products cannot claim to be “wheat free” on their packages. Another reason that spelt flour is popular is that it has a fairly strong nutritional profile. Spelt has slightly fewer calories than wheat flour and is somewhat higher in protein. The flour is easy to digest but is lower in fiber than wheat. The gluten in spelt flour is a little unusual.
Spelt flour is one of the most popular whole grain, non-wheat flours available. Another reason that spelt flour is popular is that it has a fairly strong nutritional profile. Spelt has slightly fewer calories than wheat flour and is somewhat higher in protein. The flour is easy to digest but is lower in fiber than wheat. The gluten in spelt flour is a little unusual.
A. Spelt is an ancient grain widely recognized for its many health benefits. Triticum spelta, the scientific name for spelt, is a hardier and more nutritious cousin to modern wheat (Triticum aestivum). Some taxonomists classify spelt as a parent of wheat. Spelt is also higher in fiber than wheat, and the extra fiber aids in the digestion of the gluten. Modern wheat has been bred to contain a high gluten content for the production of high-volume commercial baked goods. The content and character of the gluten in spelt has not been modified from its natural state.
Spelt has a complex history. It is a wheat species known from genetic evidence to have originated as a naturally occurring hybrid of a domesticated tetraploid wheat such as emmer wheat and the wild goat-grass Aegilops tauschii. Spelt is sometimes considered a subspecies of the closely related species common wheat (Triticum aestivum), in which case its botanical name is considered to be Triticum aestivum subsp. spelta. It is a hexaploid wheat, which means it has six sets of chromosomes