On Your W-2. Any bonus or award should be included in your W-2 statement provided by your employer at the end of each tax year. The amount will be in Box 1, wages, tips and other compensation, lumped in a total for all your compensation. A bonus will be reported for the year in which it is paid. It will be included in that box with wages and other compensation and not reported separately. If the bonus is in the form of a stock option, for instance, the employer should show the fair market value of the stock at the time of the bonus.
Total gross compensation is the amount an employee receives before any deductions or adjustments. Unlike gross salary, which is the earned hourly or annual wages before deductions, total gross compensation includes tips, bonuses and other benefits employers give employees during the period being reported. This information gives government agencies an accurate picture of the employee's taxable income. Example. If you have an employee who earns $40,000 per year, that $40,000 is her gross annual salary, but it is not her gross total compensation unless she receives no additional pay or benefits.
Total compensation is everything the company provides an employee in exchange for working. It includes base salary, bonuses, benefits, perks and on-site amenities. Total compensation indicates that an employee is making two or three times his base salary. Base salary does not include any bonuses, benefits or perks associated with the job. It increases with raises or adjustments, but remains the yearly or hourly wage paid. Base salary is typically the number you say when people ask you how much you make -- what you are paid.
“Your gross salary is the TOTAL amount of compensation that you receive from your employer. Depending on the type of job that you have, this can include any bonuses, commissions, profit sharing plans, retirement plans and overtime pay. It is not uncommon for employees to make the majority of their compensation from non-base pay” (http://www.ehow.com/info_8165672_base-gross-salary-same.html). Gross Salary Scenario: Gross pay represents wages received. It includes the employee’s base or basic salary and additional earnings and income. If the employee has worked overtime or been the recipient of an incentive bonus, the amounts will appear in his gross salary.
Overtime pay..   Most overtime hours are payed 1& 1/2 times your original hourly pay. SO if your payed $10.00 an hour you will be payed $15.00 for every overtime hour. $1 … 2.00 would be $18.00 an hour in overtime pay. $6.50 an hour would be $9.75 an hour overtime rate. Some states have their own policy on overtime pay but the national law is 1 1/2 times your original hourly wage.
Unfortunately it isn’t, and you must include your bonuses on your tax return. This will inevitably increase your adjusted gross income, or AGI—which can potentially increase the amount of tax you owe. You may be wondering if the bonus you receive at work is subject to special tax treatment. Watch this video to learn more about work bonus, and how they affect your Adjusted Gross Income, or AGI. Hello, I’m Scott from TurboTax, with important news for taxpayers who receive bonuses from their employer.
Base Salary. Base salary is what you see on your paycheck. It is the amount per hour or per year that you are paid for performing your job. Base salary does not include any bonuses, benefits or perks associated with the job. It increases with raises or adjustments, but remains the yearly or hourly wage paid. Base salary is typically the number you say when people ask you how much you make -- what you are paid.
1 Added to your weekly base salary plus overtime of $619, your weekly total is now $739. 2  This is your weekly gross pay. 3  For the year, $739 x 52 = $38,428. 4  This is your annual gross pay. 1 Let’s say that you earned a $45 productivity bonus last week, and have been consistently productive and earned that same $45 each week for the past year. 2  Your new totals, then, are $405 + $45 = $450 weekly, and $405 x 52 = $23,400 yearly. 3  In our example, therefore, your weekly gross pay is $450; yearly, it’s $23,400.