Definitions (2). 1. Legal contract between a buyer and a seller of a business, or between an employer and employee, that prevents the seller or employee from engaging in a similar business within a specified geographical area and within a specified period. We had a restraint of trade between us, which was a contract, so there were rules about how we conducted business.
• COMBINATION IN RESTRAINT OF TRADE (noun). The noun COMBINATION IN RESTRAINT OF TRADE has 1 sense: 1. (law) any monopoly or contract or combination or conspiracy intended to restrain commerce (which are illegal according to antitrust laws of the United States). Familiarity information: COMBINATION IN RESTRAINT OF TRADE used as a noun is very rare. Dictionary entry details. Nouns denoting groupings of people or objects. Hypernyms (combination in restraint of trade is a kind of...): combination (an alliance of people or corporations or countries for a special purpose (formerly to achieve some antisocial end but now for general political or economic purposes)).
Restraint Of Trade Law & Legal Definition. Restraint of trade means any activity which tends to limit trade, sales and transportation in interstate commerce or has a substantial impact on interstate commerce. Antitrust law prohibits most of these types of practices. The main antitrust law is the Sherman Act. 
restraint of trade. n. in anti-trust law, any activity (including agreements among competitors or companies doing business with each other) which tends to limit trade, sales and transportation in interstate commerce or has a substantial impact on interstate commerce. Contracts or combinations that tend, or are designed, to eliminate or stifle competition, create a Monopoly, artificially maintain prices, or otherwise hamper or obstruct the course of trade as it would be carried on if it were left to the control of natural economic forces.
Restraint of trade is a common law doctrine relating to the enforceability of contractual restrictions on freedom to conduct business. In an old leading case of Mitchel v Reynolds (1711) Lord Smith LC said, 
A restraint of trade that is ordinarily reasonable can be rendered unreasonable if it is accompanied by a Specific Intent to achieve the equivalent of a forbidden restraint. Contracts or combinations that tend, or are designed, to eliminate or stifle competition, create a Monopoly, artificially maintain prices, or otherwise hamper or obstruct the course of trade as it would be carried on if it were left to the control of natural economic forces.
The restraint of trade was enforced years later as the expert ended up working at a company in the same industry. 8 people found this helpful. It is common for an employee to be compelled to sign a restraint of trade agreement as a condition of employment to keep trade secrets from being leaked to competitors. We had a restraint of trade between us, which was a contract, so there were rules about how we conducted business.
• RESTRAINT OF TRADE (noun). The noun RESTRAINT OF TRADE has 1 sense: 1. any act that tends to prevent free competition in business. Familiarity information: RESTRAINT OF TRADE used as a noun is very rare. 
Definition of RESTRAINT OF TRADE. : an attempt or intent to eliminate or stifle competition, to effect a monopoly, to maintain prices artificially, or otherwise to hamper or obstruct the course of trade and commerce as it would be if left to the control of natural and economic forces. ADVERTISEMENT. 