Hydroxyzine has also been used to potentiate the analgesia of opioids and to alleviate some of their side effects, such as itching, nausea, and vomiting. Hydroxyzine preparations usually require a doctor 's prescription. Hydroxyzine's predominant mechanism of action is as a potent H1 receptor inverse agonist (K i = 2 nM). Unlike many other first-generation antihistamines, it has very low affinity for the mACh receptors (K i and in accordance, has a low propensity for producing anticholinergic side effects.
Languages: DE-ES-FR-IT. Hydroxyzine (brand names Vistoril, Atarax) is an antihistamine with anticholinergic (drying) and sedative properties that is used to treat allergic reactions. Hydroxyzine is a first-generation antihistamine. Brand names: Atarax, Vistoril. Hydroxyzine (brand names Vistoril, Atarax) is an antihistamine with anticholinergic (drying) and sedative properties that is used to treat allergic reactions.
Hydroxyzine (/haɪˈdrɒksɨziːn/ ; sold as Vistaril, Atarax) is a first-generation antihistamine of the diphenylmethane and piperazine class. It was first synthesized by Union Chimique Belge in 1956 and was marketed by Pfizer in the United States later the same year, and is still in widespread use today. Hydroxyzine's predominant mechanism of action is as a potent H1 receptor inverse agonist (K i = 2 nM). Unlike many other first-generation antihistamines, it has very low affinity for the mACh receptors (K i and in accordance, has a low propensity for producing anticholinergic side effects.
Last reviewed on RxList 4/17/2015. Hydroxyzine Hydrochloride (hydroxyzine hydrochloride) is an antihistamine with anticholinergic (drying) and sedative properties used for symptomatic relief of anxiety and tension associated with psychoneurosis and as an adjunct in organic disease states in which anxiety is manifested. Hydroxyzine Hydrochloride should not be given to nursing mothers. Our Hydroxyzine Hydrochloride Side Effects Drug Center provides a comprehensive view of available drug information on the potential side effects when taking this medication. This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur.
© 2014 Medica. Medica® is a registered service mark of Medica Health Plans. “Medica” refers to the family of health plan businesses that includes Medica Health Plans, Medica Health Plans of Wisconsin, Medica Insurance Company, Medica Self-Insured and Medica Health Management, LLC.
Because of its antihistamine effects it can also be used for the treatment of severe cases of itching, hyperalgesia and motion sickness-induced nausea, it has also been used in some cases to relieve the effects of opioid withdrawal. Hydroxyzine's predominant mechanism of action is as a potent H1 receptor inverse agonist (K i = 2 nM). Unlike many other first-generation antihistamines, it has very low affinity for the mACh receptors (K i and in accordance, has a low propensity for producing anticholinergic side effects.
Last reviewed on RxList 4/24/2015. Vistaril (hydroxyzine pamoate) is an antihistamine with anticholinergic (drying) and sedative properties used as a sedative to treat anxiety and tension. It is also used together with other medications given for anesthesia. Vistaril may also be used to control nausea and vomiting, or to treat allergic skin reactions such as hives or contact dermatitis. Vistaril is available in generic form. Common side effects of Vistaril include dizziness, drowsiness, blurred vision, dry mouth, stomach upset, or headache.
Anticholinergics (Hydroxyzine) Hydroxyzine can be used to treat a number of conditions including: itching, rash, seasonal/perennial allergy, insomnia, anxiety, Parkinson’s disease, motion sickness, nausea/vomiting. Medica® is a registered service mark of Medica Health Plans. “Medica” refers to the family of health plan businesses that includes Medica Health Plans, Medica Health Plans of Wisconsin, Medica Insurance Company, Medica Self-Insured and Medica Health Management, LLC.