A molecule is formed when two or more atoms of an element chemically join together. If the types of atoms are different from each other, a compound is formed. Not all molecules are compounds, since some molecules, such as hydrogen gas or ozone, consist only of one element or type of atom.
All compounds are molecules but not all molecules are compounds. Molecular hydrogen (H 2), molecular oxygen (O 2) and molecular nitrogen (N 2) are not compounds because each is composed of a single element. Water (H 2 O), carbon dioxide (CO 2) and methane (CH 4) are compounds because each is made from more than one element. The smallest bit of each of these substances would be referred to as a molecule.
A compound is a substance in which two or more elements are bonded  together chemically. There are some molecules, such as oxygen,  O2, that consist of two or more atoms of … the same  element. Apart from these, all molecules are compounds. I don't think there is a such thing, sorry. a molecule isn't the same as a compound. They are 2 different things a molecule is the smallest physical unit of an element or comp … ound, consisting of one or more like atoms in an element and two or more different atoms in a compound. A compound is not.
A molecule is what you get when any atoms join together. A compound is what you get when atoms of two or more different elements join together. All compounds are molecules, but not all molecules are compounds. Water is a molecule because it is made from atoms that have been chemically combined. It is also a compound because the atoms that make water are not all the same-some are oxygen and some are hydrogen. Oxygen in the atmosphere is a molecule because it is made from two atoms of oxygen. It is not a compound because it is made from atoms of only one element-oxygen. This type of molecule is called a diatomic molecule, a molecule made from two atoms of the same type
A molecule may be homonuclear, that is, it consists of atoms of a single chemical element, as with oxygen (O 2); or it may be heteronuclear, a chemical compound composed of more than one element, as with water (H 2 O). 
Here are examples of common molecules : Molecules made up of two or more elements are called compounds. Water, calcium oxide, and glucose are molecules that are compounds. All compounds are molecules; not all molecules are compounds. Single atoms of elements are not molecules. A single oxygen, O, is not a molecule. When oxygen bonds to itself (e.g., O 2, O 3) or to another element (e.g., carbon dioxide or CO 2), molecules are formed. Types of Chemical Bonds. List of Diatomic Molecules. By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D.
A molecule is the smallest particle in a chemical element or compound that has the chemical properties of that element or compound. Molecules are made up of atom s that are held together by chemical bonds. The atoms of some elements do not easily bond with other atoms. Examples are neon and argon. Molecules can vary greatly in size and complexity. The element helium is a one-atom molecule. Some molecules consist of two atoms of the same element.
Examples of such elements are oxygen and chlorine. The atoms of some elements do not easily bond with other atoms. Examples are neon and argon. Molecules can vary greatly in size and complexity. The element helium is a one-atom molecule. Some molecules consist of two atoms of the same element. For example, O 2 is the oxygen molecule most commonly found in the earth's atmosphere; it has two atoms of oxygen
A molecule is formed when two or more atoms join together chemically. A compound is a molecule that contains at least two different elements. Water (H 2 O), carbon dioxide (CO 2) and methane (CH 4) are compounds because each is made from more than one element. The smallest bit of each of these substances would be referred to as a molecule.
For example, the molecule of the compound water is composed of hydrogen and oxygen in a ratio of 2:1.water. In addition, compounds have a definite set of properties, and the elements that comprise a compound do not retain their original properties. 