Part of the Microprocessors glossary: An optical transceiver chip is an integrated circuit (IC) that transmits and receives data using optical fiber rather than electrical wire. Optical fiber, also called fiber optic, refers to the technology associated with the transfer of information in light beams or pulses along solid transparent fibers or cables. 
A cordless telephone uses an audio and radio transceiver for the handset, and a radio transceiver for the base station. If a speakerphone is included in a wired telephone base or in a cordless base station, the base also becomes an audio transceiver in addition to the handset. Almost all modern amateur radio equipment is now a transceiver but there is an active market for pure radio receivers, mainly for shortwave listening (SWL) operators. An example of a transceiver would be a walkie-talkie or a CB radio.
Definition of:SFP. (S mall F orm-factor P luggable) A small transceiver that plugs into the SFP port of a network switch and connects to Fibre Channel and Gigabit Ethernet (GbE) optical fiber cables at the other end. Superseding the GBIC transceiver, SFP modules are also called mini-GBIC due to their smaller size. 
http://www.fiberoptics4sale.com/c/Fib... This slide shows a typical SFP transceiver module in different views. The first picture is a front view, which shows SFP module has two ports, one port has laser inside, which is the transmitter side. The other port has a photodetector inside, which is the receiver side. So basically, SFP is a transceiver module, since it has transmitter and receiver in a single unit. The second picture shows how SFP modules are used on PCB board. The right picture shows a perspective view of SFP module, so you can clearly see its mechanical outlines
This installation section provides the installation instructions for the Cisco SFP Transceiver Modules. The SFP Transceiver Modules are hot-swappable input/output (I/O) devices that plug into 100BASE and 1000BASE ports, which connects the module port with the fiber-optic or copper network. You can use any combination of SFP modules that your Cisco device supports.
In a radio transceiver, the receiver is silenced while transmitting. An electronic switch allows the transmitter and receiver to be connected to the same antenna, and prevents the transmitter output from damaging the receiver. With a transceiver of this kind, it is impossible to receive signals while transmitting. This mode is called half duplex. Transmission and reception often, but not always, are done on the same frequency. You also agree that your personal information may be transferred and processed in the United States, and that you have read and agree to the Terms of Use and the Privacy Policy. A transceiver is a combination transmitter/receiver in a single package.
A transceiver is a device comprising both a transmitter and a receiver which are combined and share common circuitry or a single housing. When no circuitry is common between transmit and receive functions, the device is a transmitter-receiver. The term originated in the early 1920s. Almost all modern amateur radio equipment is now a transceiver but there is an active market for pure radio receivers, mainly for shortwave listening (SWL) operators. An example of a transceiver would be a walkie-talkie or a CB radio.
In radio communications, a transceiver is a two-way radio that combines both a radio transmitter and a receiver that exchanges information in half-duplex mode. The term is used most frequently to describe the component in local-area networks (LANs) that actually applies signals onto the network wire and detects signals passing through the wire. For many LANs, the transceiver is built into the network interface card (NIC) .
Full Definition of TRANSCEIVER. : a radio transmitter-receiver that uses many of the same components for both transmission and reception. See transceiver defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT. 