The head of a nematode has a few tiny sense organs, and a mouth opening into a muscular pharynx (throat) where food is pulled in and crushed. This leads into a long simple gut cavity lacking any muscles, and then to an anus near the tip of the body. As in those other groups, the cuticle is periodically shed during the life of a nematode as it grows, usually four times before reaching the adult stage. The cuticle is the closest thing a roundworm has to a skeleton, and in fact the worm uses its cuticle as a support and leverage point for movement.
Fossil nematodes have been found in rocks from as early as the Carboniferous. Most living roundworms are microscopic, meaning that their discovery as fossils is likely to be difficult. On the other hand, one species of parasitic nematode can reach 13 meters in length -- it parasitizes the sperm whale. As in those other groups, the cuticle is periodically shed during the life of a nematode as it grows, usually four times before reaching the adult stage. The cuticle is the closest thing a roundworm has to a skeleton, and in fact the worm uses its cuticle as a support and leverage point for movement.
A cuticle /ˈkjuːtɪkəl/ , or cuticula, is a term used for any of a variety of tough but flexible, non-mineral outer coverings of an organism, or parts of an organism, that provide protection. Various types of cuticle are non-homologous, differing in their origin, structure, function, and chemical composition. In botany, plant cuticles are protective, hydrophobic, waxy coverings produced by the epidermal cells of leaves, young shoots and all other aerial plant organs. Cuticles minimize water loss and effectively reduce pathogen entry due to their waxy secre
Roundworms have a tough covering of cuticle on the surface of their body. It prevents their body from expanding. This allows the buildup of fluid pressure in the pseudocoelom. As a result, roundworms have a hydrostatic skeleton. 
Nematoda (nematodes, eelworms, threadworms, roundworms; phylum Aschelminthes) Class of aschelminth worms (a phylum in some classifications) which vary greatly in size, from about 1 mm to 5 cm. The cuticle has flanges, and may also have ridges or spines. Nematode. Nematodes, also called roundworms, are members of the animal phylum Nematoda. These worms have a complete digestive system and are more complex than the flatworms (phylum Platyhelminthes) but lack a circulatory system and other advanced features found in the annelids (segmented worms).
Nematodes, known as a roundworm, is phylum in the Kingdom Animalia of the biological classification system known as the Linnaean Taxonomic Hierarchy. Roundworms are one of the most common phyla of animals, this phyla include more than 20,000 species (over 15,000 are parasitic). 
Introduction. Roundworms, or nematodes, are parasites that can infect people. They usually live in the intestines. There are different kinds of worms that can cause infection, and they can range in length from 1 millimeter to 1 meter. Most often, eggs, or larvae, live in the soil and get into the body when you get them on your hands and then touch your mouth. Some can also get into the body through the skin
Not only are there more than 15,000 known species of roundworms, but there are many thousands of individual nematodes in even a single handful of garden soil. And they keep coming! Some species of roundworm may contain more than 27 million eggs at one time and lay more than 200,000 of them in a single day. As in those other groups, the cuticle is periodically shed during the life of a nematode as it grows, usually four times before reaching the adult stage. The cuticle is the closest thing a roundworm has to a skeleton, and in fact the worm uses its cuticle as a support and leverage point for movement.
The cuticles of plants function as permeability barriers for water and water-soluble materials. The cuticle both prevents plant surfaces from becoming wet and helps to prevent plants from drying out. Xerophytic plants such as cactus have very thick cuticles to help them survive in their arid climates. In botany, plant cuticles are protective, hydrophobic, waxy coverings produced by the epidermal cells of leaves, young shoots and all other aerial plant organs. Cuticles minimize water loss and effectively reduce pathogen entry due to their waxy secretion