Topshop is a tertiary company; the purpose of the business is to sell fashionable clothes and accessories to the younger age group (15-25). Topshop is a company owned by the Arcadia group so itas itâs A. Plc As topshop is A, plc they have limited, liability and they would only lose the money that they put into the. company The type of ownership Cadbury Schweppes PLC. * Developing the business is also limited by the amount of capital personally available. * There is also the risk of unlimited liability, where John can be forced to sell personal assets to cover any business debts. * John was short of capital for investment and expansion.
Topshop started life in 1964 as Peter Robinson's Topshop, a fashion brand within the Sheffield branch of the Peter Robinson Ltd chain. By the 1970s Topshop had become a stand-alone store, and in 1994 it settled into its permanent home, 214 Oxford Street. 
HISTORY. You know Topshop as the style setter and star of your wardrobe, but over the years we’ve become so much more! From the charities we sponsor to our work at London Fashion Week, our love of everything fashion knows no bounds! We started out life way back in 1964. Since those humble beginnings in the basement of a department store we’ve grown up and now have over 300 stores in the UK alone!
Topshop is a tertiary company; the purpose of the business is to sell fashionable clothes and accessories to the younger age group (15-25). Topshop is a company owned by the Arcadia group so itas itâs A. plc The type of ownership Cadbury Schweppes PLC. * Developing the business is also limited by the amount of capital personally available. * There is also the risk of unlimited liability, where John can be forced to sell personal assets to cover any business debts. * John was short of capital for investment and expansion.
Topshop's flagship Oxford Street, London store. Topshop started as a brand extension of the department store Peter Robinson in the 1960s and originally sold fashion by young British designers, such as Mary Quant and Stirling Cooper. Peter Robinson was a women's fashion chain that had been acquired by Burton in 1946. In 2014, Topshop opened a flagship store in Auckland and a nationwide chain of shops. The company has had a presence in New Zealand since 2010, opening a small concession within a department store in 2010. Located on Auckland's North Shore, the flagship shop sold out of some of its ranges before it had opened.
Security. Security is a type of physical resource that is used within Topshop. Securities like camera are important within the business. This is due to the fact that it allows anyone who enters the business to feel safe and secure. 
Topman is the stand-alone fashion business counterpart of Topshop that caters exclusively to men’s clothing. Topman was created in the UK towards the end of the 1970s to provide a new approach to menswear retailing. Since its creation, Topman has also built an international presence, including concession outlets in boutique stores in Chicago, New York & Japan.
Describe the type of business, purpose and ownership of Help for Heroes and Topshop. Extracts from this document... Introduction. i»¿ï help for heroes is a charitable company that was founded By byrn And Emma parry in, 2007 they Started help For. heroes The type of ownership Cadbury Schweppes PLC. * Developing the business is also limited by the amount of capital personally available. * There is also the risk of unlimited liability, where John can be forced to sell personal assets to cover any business debts. * John was short of capital for investment and expansion.
Topshop (originally Top Shop) is a British multinational fashion retailer of clothing, shoes, make-up and accessories. It has around 500 shops worldwide – of which some 300 are in the UK – plus online operations in a number of its markets. In 2014, Topshop opened a flagship store in Auckland and a nationwide chain of shops. The company has had a presence in New Zealand since 2010, opening a small concession within a department store in 2010. Located on Auckland's North Shore, the flagship shop sold out of some of its ranges before it had opened.