Armstrong at RootsWeb databases. Armstrong in RootsWeb surname mailing lists. Armstrong genealogy mailing list for correspondence and sharing of information pertaining to family histories of the Armstrong surname and its variations. Or check the index of mailing lists for a sound-alike name
Armstrong at RootsWeb databases. Search for your Armstrong ancestors in multiple RootsWeb genealogy databases including the Social Security Death Index (SSDI), RootsWeb Surname List, World Connect, vital records, cemetery listings, census records, church records. The oldest and largest free genealogy site on the internet. Use these genealogy databases to fill in the blanks of your Armstrong heritage. Armstrong in Ancestry.com Records. Start your family tree and learn the story of your family in the world's largest online collection of genealogy records and family trees. Look for additional generations to add to your family history
Armstrong Name Meaning. English (common in Northumberland and the Scottish Borders): Middle English nickname for someone who was strong in the arm.Irish: adopted as an English equivalent of Gaelic O ó Labhradha ‘trean Tréan’Strong’ o Lavery Or, mac ‘threinfhir thréinfhir literally son of’, the strong Man. both from ulster You can find out where the majority of the Armstrong families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination.
Armstrong is a surname of Scottish borders origin. It derives from a Middle English nickname which meant someone with strong arms. In Ireland the name was adopted as an Anglicization of two Gaelic names from Ulster: Mac Threinfhir (thréinfhir meaning son of the strong) man AND O ó (labhradha trean Tréan'Meaning). strong o lavery This page or section lists people with the surname Armstrong. If an internal link intending to refer to a specific person led you to this page, you may wish to change that link by adding the person's given name (s) to the link.
The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of Adam Armstrong, which was dated 1235, arrested and imprisoned for murder and later pardoned at Carlisle, during the reign of King Alexander 11 of Scotland, 1214 - 1249. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation. After William 1 conquered England in 1066, he rewarded his followers with land grants. Amongst these followers were ones known as Forten Bras which literally translates as strong in the arm, itself a rare surname, and from these people developed the Armstrangs or Armstrongs.
Armstrong Genealogy & History. Armstrong is an English-Scottish descriptive name literally meaning someone with strong arms. Legend holds that during a battle, an ancient Scottish King's horse was killed, and immediately a soldier lifted the King up onto his own horse. In American Armstrong genealogy, astronaut Neil Armstrong, commander of Apollo 11 and the first man on the moon, famously uttered That's one small step for man, one giant leap for mankind..
Armstrong Early Origins. First found in Cumberland. This well known Border surname is derived from the Norman surname Fortenbras and is an instance of a surname assumed from a personal attribute, strength of arm.
In Ireland the name was adopted as an Anglicization of two Gaelic names from Ulster: Mac Threinfhir (thréinfhir meaning son of the strong) man AND O ó (labhradha trean Tréan'Meaning). Strong O lavery clan armstrong is a clan from the Border area Between. england and scotland This page or section lists people with the surname Armstrong. If an internal link intending to refer to a specific person led you to this page, you may wish to change that link by adding the person's given name (s) to the link.
The Armstrong surname is of English and is common in Northumberland and the Scottish Borders. It is a good example of a surname assumed from a personal attribute that being-strength of arm. It originated from a Middle English nickname for someone who was strong in the arm. 