Purpose. The Clinical Practice Committee of the Academy of Medical-Surgical Nurses (AMSN) supports the mission to promote excellence in medical-surgical nursing. It addresses issues and develops statements or guidelines that affect the clinical practice of medical-surgical nursing. 
VUMC Nursing Research Committee Goals. Long-term Goal: Provide leadership for the use of evidence-based practice as an integral component of clinical practice and management decision making. Short-term Goals (1-2 yrs): 1  Ensure access & ability to use data and evidence resources. 
The purpose of the Nursing Practice Council is to: 1  Delineate the scope of nursing practice at RCH. 2  Review and revise policies, procedures and standards of care. 3  Incorporate evidence-based research findings into clinical practice. 4  Consult on interdepartmental issues that impact patient care. 1 Incorporate evidence-based research findings into clinical practice. 2  Consult on interdepartmental issues that impact patient care. 3  Participate in the adoption of new clinical products and equipment. 4  Provide input for the revision and approval of nursing documentation standards.
RCH Nursing Practice Council Mission: The Nursing Practice Council empowers clinical nurses to implement and maintain standards of nursing practice and patient care consistent with evidence-based practice and requirements of regulatory agencies. 1 Incorporate evidence-based research findings into clinical practice. 2  Consult on interdepartmental issues that impact patient care. 3  Participate in the adoption of new clinical products and equipment. 4  Provide input for the revision and approval of nursing documentation standards.
Responsibilities. The Clinical Practice Committee is comprised of AMP members with expertise in one or more of the molecular specialties: infectious diseases, hematopathology, solid tumors, genetics and informatics. Its purpose is to address the challenges of clinical laboratories and, therefore, improve the service we provide. 
Lori Hoffman Hogg, MS, RN, CNS, AOCN ® is the VHA Oncology Clinical Advisor for the Office of Nursing Services and Chair of the Oncology Nursing Field Advisory Committee (ONC-FAC). Field based, she is the Cancer Program Director at the Albany Stratton VA Medical Center in Upstate, New York. The Clinical Practice Program was developed by the Office of Nursing Services to support nursing clinical practice, develop policies in coordination with other VHA program offices and to disseminate communication to the field.
A A A. The Nurse Practice Council empowers clinical nurses to implement and maintain standards of nursing practice and patient care consistent with evidence-based practice and requirements of regulatory agencies. 1 Incorporate evidence-based research findings into clinical practice. 2  Consult on interdepartmental issues that impact patient care. 3  Participate in the adoption of new clinical products and equipment. 4  Provide input for the revision and approval of nursing documentation standards.
CPGs contain recommendations based on a systematic review and critical analysis of the literature about a clinical practice question. Preparing a CPG is a complex process involving critical thinking throughout the entire process. Overview: ENA provides three types of-based researchclinical practice resources 1) Clinical Practice Guidelines,) 2Clinical Practice Guidelines Synopsis and) Translation into Practice Recommendations. The follow3 ing table provides a comparison.
Accomplishments. Since 2008, the committee has drafted over 20 clinical practice statements and clinical practice guidelines. Many of these statements have been submitted for peer review & publication in the Journal of Emergency Medicine (JEM). The general guidelines for the preparation of clinical practice statements was updated April 2014. Join the committee as they develop clinical policy statements on current issues that impact emergency medicine physician
In 2011, the Institute of Medicine (IOM) defined a systematic evidence review as a scientific investigation that focuses on a specific question and uses explicit, prespecified scientific methods to identify, select, assess, and summarize the findings of similar but separate studies. The IOM (2011) defined clinical practice guidelines as statements that include recommendations intended to optimize patient care that are informed by a systematic review of evidence and an assessment of the benefits and harms of alternative care options..