Zulu Native Fruits. Fruit grows plentifully in Zulu territories, and is eaten fresh as a part of daily meals. Some of the fruits have seeds that are used as nuts or for oil, including the marula and mobola plum. The mobola plum has seeds that are considered to be a substitute for almonds. The repeated use of the cooking pot is said to add special flavors to every meal cooked in them. Although many Zulu people eat farmed produce like pumpkins and tomatoes, they have a history of foraging native foods such as umfino (wild spinach), amadumbe, cassava and Jew's mallow.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The main food that Zulus eat consists of beer (tshwala), Zulu bread, cooked chicken feet, meat, amasi, pumpkin, cabbage, tubers and phuthu or maize meal. Maize is a popular part of the Zulu's diet. One method of preparing it is to grind it to a meal, it is then cooked into a stiff porridge (uphuthu). The Zulus also eat dry beans boiled together with maize. The most popular are kidney beans (ubhomubhomu) and sugar beans (ubhonisi). Zulu beer is known as tshwala, and is an important part of Zulu life as it is an essential part of every ceremony or feast
Your blood type is a likely reason why you can digest various types of food, while some types just don’t agree with you. There is a little skepticism to this theory, but on the whole, it is widely accepted that there is some meat to this matter. 
Meat, both wild and domesticated, is a common part of the Zulu cuisine. Meats are often roasted whole on a spit or added to vegetable-based broths or porridge. The roasted meat is served in large, rectangular wooden pans called ugqoko. Livestock animals eaten include goats, chickens, cows, sheep and pigs. The repeated use of the cooking pot is said to add special flavors to every meal cooked in them. Although many Zulu people eat farmed produce like pumpkins and tomatoes, they have a history of foraging native foods such as umfino (wild spinach), amadumbe, cassava and Jew's mallow.
Types of Fats-Topic Overview. Fats are nutrients that give you energy. Fats have 9 calories in each gram. Fats help in the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins A, D, E, and K. Fats are either saturated or unsaturated, and most foods with fat have both types. But usually there is more of one kind of fat than the other. Saturated fat is solid at room temperature, which is why it is also known as solid fat.. It is mostly in animal foods, such as milk, cheese, and meat
Food. The Zulu culinary repertoire encompasses some forty dishes, mostly vegetarian (although the Zulus love meat). Maize, tubers and pumpkin are mostly eaten in different forms. Tomatoes, cabbage and onions are popular when available. Eating is hygienic, each member using his own plate and utensils. On the second day, it is boiled and dry sorghum added and the mash allowed to cool. On the third day the brew is filtered through a sieve and served and consumed on the same day. It has an alcohol content of 3%, is refreshing and nutritious.
Nutritional Typing: Not exactly rocket science, but critically important to achieving your other goals in life. Nutritional Typing will teach you which foods you are designed to eat and the ideal proportions of the types of nutrients you require, whether you are a 'Carb', a 'Protein', or a 'Mixed' type. Chances are, you may have seen these three types in my book, the Total Health Program. Protein Types. Protein Types operate best on a low-carbohydrate, high-protein and relatively high-fat diet (healthy fat that is). These ratios are detailed for you in your Nutritional Typing profile to help you make the wisest food choices.
The science of Nutritional Typing is the only system that customizes nutrition based on the way your body reacts to food. Your Nutritional Type determines your individual nutritional requirements and dictates your individual responses to what you eat and drink. Protein Types. Protein Types operate best on a low-carbohydrate, high-protein and relatively high-fat diet (healthy fat that is). These ratios are detailed for you in your Nutritional Typing profile to help you make the wisest food choices.