Leo is Latin for lion, and it was the name of many early Christian saints and several popes. In German, it's a short form of Leon or Leopold, meaning brave people.. Well-known Leos: writer Leo Tolstoy; actor Leonardo Leo DiCaprio. 
Leo is also a short form of the name Leopold (English and German). The name Leona (English and German) is the female equivalent of Leo. Leo is a widely used name; it has 34 variants that are used in English and other languages. In addition, Leo is a Dutch, English, French, German, and Italian pet form of the name Leander (English and German). Leo is also a Dutch, English, French, German, and Italian short form of the name Leonard (English, German, and Polish).
Meaning & History. Derived from Latin leo lion, a cognate of LEON. It was popular among early Christians and was the name of 13 popes, including Saint Leo the Great who asserted the dominance of the Roman bishops (the popes) over all others in the 5th century. It was also borne by six Byzantine emperors and five Armenian kings.
Origin of the name Leo: A Late Latin name derived from leo (a lion). Leo is also used as a short form of any of the names using it as a beginning element. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Meaning of Leo. Italian name. In Italian, the name Leo means-a lion. Other origins for the name Leo include-Italian, English.The name Leo is most often used as a boy name or male name. Italian Name Meaning-a lion. Origin-Italy
[ 2 syll. leo, le-o ] The baby boy name Leo is sometimes used as a girl name. Its pronunciation is L IY-ow in English or L EH-ow in German †. Leo is a Dutch, English, French, German, Italian, Czech, Greek, Hawaiian, and Polish name of Old Greek, Latin, and Germanic origin. In addition, Leo is a Dutch, English, French, German, and Italian pet form of the name Leander (English and German). Leo is also a Dutch, English, French, German, and Italian short form of the name Leonard (English, German, and Polish).
It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Leo is lion. A common name in Roman times, and the name of 13 popes, including Leo the Great (fifth century), who successfully dealt with Attila the Hun when the Vandals conquered Rome. Author Leo Tolstoy; actor Leo G. Carroll. Kreatif forms: Laleo, Leola, Leopo. Leo /leo/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is pronounced LEE-oh.
Hello, Guest. Leo is a strong-yet-friendly name that was common among the Romans, used for thirteen popes, and is now on the upswing partly thanks to Leonardo Leo DiCaprio. Penelope Cruz and Javier Bardem called their son Leo, as did actress Kim Raver, NASCAR driver Jeff Gordon and Kristin Olson
American Meaning: The name Leo is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Leo is: Lion. Latin Meaning: The name Leo is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Leo is: Lion. This name has been borne by a total of 13 popes. Leo is also associated with the zodiac sign from 23rd July to 22nd August. Teutonic Meaning: The name Leo is a Teutonic baby name. 