Full Definition of DYNAMIC. 1. : a dynamic force (see 1dynamic). 2. : dynamics 2; also: an underlying cause of change or growth. See dynamic defined for English-language learners. Examples of DYNAMIC. 1  the dynamic between a doctor and a patient. 2  Group dynamics are important to consider. 3  The dynamics of this class are different from those of other classes. 4  Disease was a central dynamic in the decrease in population
Dynamic Model & Chill Accumulation. An illustrated step-by-step guide for calculating Chill Portions (CP) using weather data collected from personal data loggers and the Dynamic Model. 
Definition of DYNAMIC MODEL. : a copy (as of an airplane) usually smaller than the original and having linear dimensions, weight, and moments of inertia reproduced to scale in proportion to those of the original. dynamic model or dynamic scale model. ADVERTISEMENT. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged
a model used to determine the part played by multiple factors in the cause or causes of disease; a path model in which the variables are arranged temporally. descriptive model. consist largely of diagrams and maps or charts designed to describe a real-world system. deterministic model. see epidemiological model (below). X. The model is based on a series of linear equations with a linear equation, called the objective function, as the desired end. Such an end could, in the determination of lowest cost rations, be the total cost of each ration. mathematical model.
by olivia. Static vs Dynamic Modelling. Any system can be described using a mathematical model that contains mathematical symbols and concepts. Mathematical modeling is the name of the process that is undertaken to develop a model for a particular system.
Dynamic Modeling. Models are the things we build to help us understand things better. When dealing with concepts of reality we have as the only alternative those abstractions we develop as models, or in situations where it is simply to costly to build the real thing, we build models to help us understand. 
The Dynamic Model. The dynamic model is used to express and model the behaviour of the system over time. It includes support for activity diagrams, state diagrams, sequence diagrams and extensions including business process modelling. Sequence Diagrams
epidemiological model. a mathematical model, which may be a computer simulation model, of a disease for the purpose of studying the behavior of the disease in a variable animal population under variable conditions of climate, density of population, mix of population, and so on. X. The model is based on a series of linear equations with a linear equation, called the objective function, as the desired end. Such an end could, in the determination of lowest cost rations, be the total cost of each ration. mathemat
1.8.2 Classical linear regression. Linear regression without dynamical evolution of the regression components is a special case of DLM model, although using DLM code to fit linear regression model is not the most efficient way to achieve this. A non dynamic model is obtained by setting all model error variances to zero. 