antagonistic muscle - (physiology) a muscle that opposes the action of another; the biceps and triceps are antagonistic muscles. muscle, musculus-one of the contractile organs of the body. agonist-a muscle that contracts while another relaxes; when bending the elbow the biceps are the agonist. 
Because muscles only pull, they cannot push, they work in pairs. These pairs are called antagonistic pairs. As one muscle contracts (shortens), the other relaxes (lengthens). The muscle which is contracting is called the agonist, or prime mover. The relaxing muscle is called the antagonist. There is a thrid muscle type within this model, called a synergist. 
Muscle pairs. Antagonistic pairs of muscles create movement when one (the prime mover) contracts and the other (the antagonist) relaxes. Examples of antagonistic pairs working are: 1  the quadriceps and hamstrings in the leg. 2  the biceps and triceps in the arm
Antagonist and agonist muscles often occur in pairs, called antagonistic pairs. As one muscle contracts, the other relaxes. An example of an antagonisic pair is the biceps and triceps; to contract-the triceps relaxes while the biceps contracts to lift the arm. Reverse motions need antagonistic pairs located in opposite sides of a joint or bone, including abductor-adductor pairs and flexor-extensor pairs. Agonist muscles cause a movement to occur through their own contraction. For example, the triceps brachii contracts during the up phase of a push-up (elbow extension). During the down phase of a push-up, the same triceps brachii actively controls elbow flexion while relaxing.
It is controlled by two muscles, the biceps on the front of the upper arm, and the triceps on the back of the upper arm. The biceps and the triceps are antagonistic muscles. when the biceps muscle contracts, the forearm moves up. when the triceps muscle contracts, the forearm moves down. This solves the problem. To lift the forearm, the biceps contracts and the triceps relaxes. 
1 Biceps and triceps are antagonistic pairs. 2  The biceps muscle works across three joints and the most important of these functions is to flex the elbow, while the triceps muscle is the muscle principally responsible for extension of the elbow joint. 1 Our biceps and triceps in the legs are the quadriceps femoris and biceps femoris. 2  Under the knee we have one more important antagonistic pair and that’s tibialis anterior and soleus muslce.
Antagonistic muscles are found in pairs called antagonistic pairs.  These consist of an extensor muscle, which opens the joint (i.e.  increasing the angle between the two … bones), flexor muscle, which  does the opposite to an extensor muscle. An example of an Antagonistic pair is the contracting of the biceps while the triceps relax. The reverse occurs if the triceps were to contract. Moreover, this is known as the … elbow flexion that consists of the Biceps brachii and Triceps brachii.
Antagonistic pairs are needed in the body because muscles can only  exert a pulling force, and can't push themselves back into their  original positions. An example of this kind of muscle pairing is  the biceps brachii and triceps brachii. An example of an Antagonistic pair is the contracting of the biceps while the triceps relax. The reverse occurs if the triceps were to contract. Moreover, this is known as the … elbow flexion that consists of the Biceps brachii and T
Muscles are normally arranged in opposition so that as one group of muscles contract another group relaxes or lengthens. Antagonistic pairs of muscles are muscle where one move the bone in one direction and the other moves it back the other way in transmission of nerve impulses to the muscles. That means that it is impossible to fully stimulate the contraction of two antagonistic muscles at the same time. 1 Our biceps and triceps in the legs are the quadriceps femoris and biceps femoris. 2  Under the knee we have one more important antagonistic pair and that’s tibialis anterior and soleus muslce.
Antagonistic pairs are needed in the body because muscles can only  exert a pulling force, and can't push themselves back into their  original positions. An example of this kind of muscle pairing is  the biceps brachii and triceps brachii. Working in antagonistic pairs allows the body part to move back to its original position. For instance, your fingers wouldn't work very well if you only had a muscle to flex t … hem, but not extend them.