Medical Definition of TISSUE. : an aggregate of cells usually of a particular kind together with their intercellular substance that form one of the structural materials of a plant or an animal and that in animals include connective tissue, epithelium, muscle tissue, and nerve tissue. Full Definition of TISSUE. 1. a: a fine lightweight often sheer fabric. 2. : a piece of soft absorbent tissue paper used especially as a handkerchief or for removing cosmetics. 3. : an aggregate of cells usually of a particular kind together with their intercellular substance that form one of the structural materials of a plant or an animal. — tis·su·ey \ˈti-shə-wē\ adjectiv
Hard tissue injury and soft tissue injury are types of injuries discussed in GCSE Physical Education (GCSE PE) lessons as part of the Sports Injuries module. A hard tissue injury is damage to bone tissue. A hard tissue injury is also called a  fracture  and is defined as a  loss of continuity in the substance of a bone .
Symptoms of a soft tissue injury. A person with a soft tissue injury will have pain and swelling. Depending on how severe it is and where it is, the injury may affect activities that use the injured body part. Severe soft tissue injuries will cause the child or teen to stop their activity. Key points. 1  Soft tissue injuries include strains and sprains. 2  Strains affect muscles and tendons; sprains affect ligaments. 3  Most soft tissue injuries are mild and can be treated with rest, cool packs, compression and raising the injured body part. 4  Over-the-counter pain medicine can also help with pain.
(May 2012). A Soft tissue injury (STI) is the damage of muscles, ligaments and tendons throughout the body. Common soft tissue injuries usually occur from a sprain, strain, a one off blow resulting in a contusion or overuse of a particular part of the body. Soft tissue injuries can result in pain, swelling, bruising and loss of function (Lovering, 2008). A Soft tissue injury (STI) is the damage of muscles, ligaments and tendons throughout the body
Definition of Human Body Tissue. If you were to try to explain to someone what your body is made of, you might say two arms, two legs, feet and hands, a head and a torso. Or, you may go to the other extreme and say that you are made up of billions of cells. Both answers would be correct. 
Soft-tissue injuries fall into two basic categories: acute injuries and overuse injuries. 1  Acute injuries are caused by a sudden trauma, such as a fall, twist, or blow to the body. 2  Examples of an acute injury include sprains, strains, and contusions. A sprain is a stretch and/or tear of a ligament, a strong band of connective tissue that connect the end of one bone with another. Ligaments stabilize and support the body's joints. For example, ligaments in the knee connect the thighbone with the shinbone, enabling people to walk and run.
A strain is an injury to a muscle and/or tendons. Tendons are fibrous cords of tissue that attach muscles to the bone. Strains often occur in your foot, leg (typically the hamstring) or back. Similar to sprains, a strain may be a simple stretch in your muscle or tendon, or it may be a partial or complete tear in the muscle-and-tendon combination. A sprain is a stretch and/or tear of a ligament, a strong band of connective tissue that connect the end of one bone with another. Ligaments stabilize and support the body's joints. For example, ligaments in the knee connect the thighbone with the shinbone, enabling people to walk and run.
The difference between hard and soft tissue injuries is that hard tissue injuries involve damage to bone tissue and soft tissue injuries involve damage to other types of tissues e.g. muscular tissue, tendons, ligaments, etc.. Bone fractures, also known as hard tissue injuries, are less common sporting injuries than soft tissue injuries. However, hard tissue injury does sometimes happen during sporting events, especially in the case of certain more extreme sports such as downhill skiing, some equine sports and even motor sports. A hard tissue injury is damage to bone tissue. A hard tissue injury is also called a  fracture  and is defined as a  loss of continuity in the substance of a bone .