A common question we hear from patients before they come to us for treatment is “How much will this cost?” They are often pleasantly surprised to hear that, depending on your plan, insurance can help cover your varicose vein treatments at Vein Clinics of America. 
1 According to the website LawPublish.com, the cost of varicose vein removal can cost anywhere from $600 to as much as $2,000 per leg. 2  This will usually include the surgeon’s fee as well as the hospitalization and anesthesia. 1 More than one session may be necessary depending on your situation. 2  According to the website LawPublish.com, the cost of varicose vein removal can cost anywhere from $600 to as much as $2,000 per leg. 3
If you are ready to treat your varicose or spider veins, you probably have a lot of questions. One that is bound to come up is how much your treatment will cost. The answer to that question depends on a few things, including insurance coverage. 
Cost of Treatment. The cost of vein stripping surgery ranges from $1,500 to $3,000 plus fees charged by the hospital or surgical center. Costs for EVLT range from $600 to $3,000, depending on how much of the vein needs to be treated. Insurance may pick up part of the tab, however, if the varicose veins are painful or debilitating.
1 Lower Leg Laser Vein, or Varicose Vein, Treatments can cost $200-$1,000 depending on how many veins need to be lasered. 2  Tip: You may want to talk to a medical specialist to determine whether sclerotherapy (which uses chemicals) in combination with laser leg treatments is appropriate for you. Additional costs: Shopping for varicose vein treatments: 1  Treatments can cost more at a spa, which can provide additional amenities and more of a luxury environment. 2  You can also find a board certified physician by visiting the American Academy of Dermatology or the American Society of Plastic Surgeons.
How much is it? 1  Most treatments can be done on an outpatient basis. 2  A laser setting that requires the removal of smaller varicose veins may cost anywhere from $250 to $500 per session. 3  According to the website LawPublish.com, the cost of varicose vein removal can cost anywhere from $600 to as much as $2,000 per leg. 1 More than one session may be necessary depending on your situation. 2  According to the website LawPublish.com, the cost of varicose vein removal can cost anywhere from $600 to as much as $2,000 per leg. 3  This will usually include the surgeon’s fee as well as the hospitalization and anesthesia
Simple laser treatment is done for small spider veins and tiny varicose veins. This is sometimes a second treatment step, after a larger varicose vein has been treated with surgery, endovenous laser or radiofrequency treatment, or sclerotherapy. (If you have poor blood circulation feeding these tiny veins, the larger feeder vein must first be treated with surgery, endovenous laser or radiofrequency treatment, or sclerotherapy .). Endovenous laser treatment. Endovenous laser treatment can treat larger varicose veins in the legs.
Simple laser vein treatment is done on the outside of your skin. It can treat spider veins and tiny varicose veins just under the skin's surface. Usually, more than one laser session is needed. They are scheduled every 6 to 12 weeks, as prescribed by your doctor. (If you have poor blood circulation feeding these tiny veins, the larger feeder vein must first be treated with surgery, endovenous laser or radiofrequency treatment, or sclerotherapy .). Endovenous laser treatment. Endovenous laser treatment can treat larger varicose veins in the legs.
1 A laser setting that requires the removal of smaller varicose veins may cost anywhere from $250 to $500 per session. 2  More than one session may be necessary depending on your situation. 3  According to the website LawPublish.com, the cost of varicose vein removal can cost anywhere from $600 to as much as $2,000 per leg. 1 More than one session may be necessary depending on your situation. 2  According to the website LawPublish.com, the cost of varicose vein removal can cost anywhere from $600 to as much as $2,000 per leg. 3  This will usually include the surgeon’s fee as well as the hospitalization and anesthesia