The given United Arab Emirates location map shows that United Arab Emirates is located in the south-western part of Asia. The capital city of United Arab Emirates is Abu Dhabi. However, the Dubai is more functional and global city of UAE. The government type of UAE is a federal, presidential, elected monarchy.
The United Arab Emirates (UAE) is a small country located on the continent of Asia. It is situated on the Arabian peninsula in the south east, south of the states of Qatar and … Bahrain and bordering Oman and Saudi Arabia. 3 people found this useful. Answered. 
Geography. The United Arab Emirates, in the eastern part of the Arabian Peninsula, extends along part of the Gulf of Oman and the southern coast of the Persian Gulf. The nation is the size of Maine. Its neighbors are Saudi Arabia to the west and south, Qatar to the north, and Oman to the east. Most of the land is barren and sandy. The British withdrew from the Persian Gulf in 1971, and the Trucial states became a federation called the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Two of the Trucial states, Bahrain and Oman, chose not to join the federation, reducing the number of states to seven.
The United Arab Emirates is a Middle-East country situated in the southeast of the Arabian Peninsula in Western Asia on the Persian Gulf. It is bordered by Oman and Saudi Arabia, and the Persian Gulf. The state shares maritime borders with Iraq, Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, and Iran. Description about Map :- United Arab Emirates is situated along the Persian Gulf and the Gulf of Oman. The United Arab Emirates borders Oman and Saudi Arabia. The capital of UAE is Abu Dhabi.
Answer by Answers Publisher. Confidence votes 261K. The United Arab Emirates (UAE) is a small country located on the continent of Asia. It is situated on the Arabian peninsula in the south east, south of the states of Qatar and Bahrain and bordering Oman and Saudi Arabia. 
Established in December 1971, the country is a federation of seven emirates. The constituent emirates are Abu Dhabi (which serves as the capital), Ajman, Dubai, Fujairah, Ras al-Khaimah, Sharjah, and Umm al-Quwain. Each emirate is governed by an absolute monarch; together, they jointly form the Federal Supreme Council.
United Arab Emirates, also known as Emirates, is located in the southeast of the Arabian Peninsula in Western Asia on the Persian Gulf. The largest City in UAE is Dubai. It has a population of 7.891 million (2011). About UAE. Description about Map :- United Arab Emirates is situated along the Persian Gulf and the Gulf of Oman. The United Arab Emirates borders Oman and Saudi Arabia. The capital of UAE is Abu Dhabi.
The Emirates Stadium (known as Ashburton Grove prior to sponsorship) is a football stadium in Holloway, London, England, and the home of Arsenal Football Club. With a capacity of 60,272, the Emirates is the third-largest football stadium in England after Wembley and Old Trafford. In 1997, Arsenal explored the possibility of relocating to a new stadium, having been denied planning permission by Islington Council to expand its home ground of Highbury.
Home: Maps of UAE: United Arab Emirates on the World Map. The United Arab Emirates is located in the Middle East region of Asia. It is at the tip of the Arabian Peninsula, having borders with Saudi Arabia and Oman and is one of the GCC (Gulf Co-operation Council) States. It consists of seven emirates, which include Abu Dhabi, Dubai, Sharjah, Ajman, Umm Al Quwain, Ras Al Khaimah, and Fujairah. It contains 200 islands, covers an area of 83,600 square kilometers (32,400 square miles) and is located at 23° 49 North, 54° 20 East.