Seven hours after the attack on Pearl Harbor started, the Japanese cabinet, with the Emperor present, voted to declare war on the United States & the British Empire (Great Britain, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, & South Africa). The Japanese military thought that the best way to keep the United States from interfering in their plans in Asia, was to deliver a surprise attack on various US bases throughout the Pacific to do as much damage to the US military capability in the Pacific.
1 The Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor because they knew America was going to have to enter the Pacific Theatre of WWII sooner or later. 2  America's allies, China etc. were being attacked by the Japanese. 3  The Japanese believed it would be a good idea to try and destroy all of the Aircraft Carriers in the Pacific. First, Pearl Harbor is in Hawaii, USA, not in Singapore, which is at the south end of Malaysia.    Second, the simple answer regarding Pearl Harbor is that the Japanese … wanted to deal the US Pacific fleet which used Pearl as its base, a crippling blow, in order to hinder or prevent the US entry into WWII.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: The Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor because it was the main naval base for the U.S. Pacific Fleet. The Japanese military believed that if a swift, decisive blow could be struck against U.S. forces the U.S. public would demand that the American government negotiate peace with Japan. · just now. Report Abuse. The US had a lot of navy fleets in Pearl Harbor. The Japanese government tried to destroy our already small army (remember, the US was not a superpower then) so we could not be a threat. Unfortunately for them, the idea backfired
Pearl Harbor was the base for the American Pacific fleet and most  of the fleet (maybe all) were in Pearl Harbor at the time of the  attack. By destroying the US Navy fleet … , it would cripple the  ability to respond to Japanese aggression. The Japanese military thought that the best way to keep the United States from interfering in their plans in Asia, was to deliver a surprise attack on various US bases throughout the Pacific to do as much damage to the US military capability in the Pacific.
Mini DBQ. Common Core Argument Essay. A copy of the documents can be found online. Search “Why Did Japan Attack Pearl Harbor DBQ WWII.” Choose the google docs form for easy navigation. On December 7, 1941, Japanese planes and submarines made a surprise attack on the United States at Pearl Harbor, Hawaii. The following day, President Roosevelt, supported by Congress, declared war on Japan. It marked the beginning of America’s direct involvement in World War II
The United States was going to be invited into the war with an attack from Japan at Pearl Harbor. But was the United States invited in... the other continents could possibly attack the US. Americans were neutral to the war in Europe. On Sunday December 7, 1941 Japan attacked the American naval base at Pearl Harbor and put America in WWII. Japan’s reason for this surprise attack on the U.S. most likely goes all the way back to the end of WWI. In 1919 after WWI major powers of the...
1 Moreover, the Japanese did not like the threat of Pearl Harbor attacking them. 2  A good question. 3  Japan was expanding it's territory nicely throughout Asia, and if they had refrained from an attack on Pearl Harbor, perhaps America would never have entered the war. 4  The truth is, however, somewhat different. First, Pearl Harbor is in Hawaii, USA, not in Singapore, which is at the south end of Malaysia.    Second, the simple answer regarding Pearl Harbor is that the Japanese … wanted to deal the US Pacific fleet which used Pearl as its base, a crippling blow, in order to hinder or prevent the US entry into WWII.