Baby Names Ocean-Baby Names that your baby will love. Name Meanings and Name Origins from around the whole world! Copyright © 2010 BabyNamesOcean.com. All Rights Reserved. 
Kasmira /kas-mi-ra/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Slavic origin, and the meaning of Kasmira is famous destroyer (of peace). Feminine of Casimir. Uncommon. Affiliated girl name: Kashmir. Kasmira is an unusual first name for women and an equally unusual surname for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Kasmira for girls. Kasmira has not been recorded in the Top 1000 so far.
Asmara is the site of an ancient highland village called 'Arbate Asmara'. In 1885, the Italians invaded Eritrea and by 1900, Asmara had become the capital city. The site was chosen for its salubrious highland climate, reliable water supply and ideal geographic location in the centre of Eritrea. Originally, it is said, there were four clans living in the Asmara area on the Kebessa Plateau: the Gheza Gurtom, the Gheza Shelele, the Gheza Serenser and Gheza Asmae. These towns fought each other until the women of each clan decided that to preserve peace the four clans must unite.
It is known for its well-preserved colonial Italian modernist architecture. The city is divided into thirteen districts or administrative areas: Acria, Abbashaul, Edaga Hamus, Arbaete Asmara, Mai Temenai, Paradizo, Sembel, Godaif, Maekel Ketema or Downtown, Tiravolo, Gejeret, Tsetserat and Gheza Banda. Originally, it is said, there were four clans living in the Asmara area on the Kebessa Plateau: the Gheza Gurtom, the Gheza Shelele, the Gheza Serenser and Gheza Asmae. These towns fought each other until the women of each clan decided that to preserve peace the four clans must unite.
Asmara acquired some importance as a result of Alula's choice for the capital of his province, but started to grow in a huge way when it was occupied by Italy in 1889 and was made the capital city of Italian Eritrea in preference to Massawa by Governor Martini in 1897. Originally, it is said, there were four clans living in the Asmara area on the Kebessa Plateau: the Gheza Gurtom, the Gheza Shelele, the Gheza Serenser and Gheza Asmae. These towns fought each other until the women of each clan decided that to preserve peace the four clans must unite.
Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities. Samira is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Sa-mi-ra. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1182 in baby name popularity for girls with 206 occurrences.
While Eritrea was under Italian colonial rule, early-20th-century Europeans used Asmara to experiment with radical new designs in architecture Nowadays the major part of buildings are of Italian origin, and shops still have Italian names (e.g., Bar Vittoria, Pasticceria moderna, Casa del formaggio, and Ferramenta). Originally, it is said, there were four clans living in the Asmara area on the Kebessa Plateau: the Gheza Gurtom, the Gheza Shelele, the Gheza Serenser and Gheza Asmae. These towns fought each other until the women of each clan decided that to preserve peace the four clans must unite.
List of Danish baby names, Danish baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Danish names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Danish baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Asmira in Danish origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details. 