1 Scleritis is frequently associated with connective tissue diseases of which rheumatoid arthritis is by far the most common. 2  Other connective tissue diseases seen are Wegener's granulomatosis, relapsing polychondritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, reactive arthritis, polyarteritis nodosa and ankylosing spondylitis. 1 Anterior scleritis (98% of cases) : 2  Diffuse anterior-this is the most common (and benign) form, characterised by widespread inflammation of the anterior sclera. 3  It accounts for about 50% of scleritis cases.
Anterior scleritis, the most common form, can be subdivided into diffuse, nodular, or necrotizing forms. In the diffuse form, anterior scleral edema is present along with dilation of the deep episcleral vessels. The entire anterior sclera or just a portion may be involved. As scleritis is associated with systemic autoimmune diseases, it is more common in women. It usually occurs in the fourth to sixth decades of life. Men are more likely to have infectious scleritis than women.
Scleritis is a disorder in which the outer surface of the eye becomes severely inflamed. The sclera is the outer protective layer of the eye. In scleritis, the scleral tissue becomes inflamed and red. The condition can be very painful. Scleritis is believed to be the result of the body’s immune system overreacting. The types of scleritis are divided by the position where inflammation is taking place: anterior (front) or posterior (rear). Most individuals feel severe pain with the condition, but there are exceptions. Treatment is a step-ladder approach beginning with the least risk and moving on as the condition worsens
Scleritis is a serious inflammatory disease that affects the white outer coating of the eye, known as the sclera. The disease is often contracted through association with other diseases of the body, such as granulomatosis with polyangiitis or rheumatoid arthritis. There are three types of scleritis: diffuse scleritis (the most common), nodular scleritis, and necrotizing scleritis (the most severe). Scleritis may be the first symptom of onset of connective tissue disease. Symptoms of scleritis include: 1  Redness of the sclera and conjunctiva, sometimes changing to a purple hue. 2  Severe ocular pain, which may radiate to the temple or jaw. 3  The pain is often described as deep or boring.
Scleritis is commonly associated with systemic autoimmune disorders, including rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, relapsing polychondritis, spondyloarthropathies, Wegener granulomatosis, polyarteritis nodosa, and giant cell arteritis. Scleritis is a chronic, painful, and potentially blinding inflammatory disease that is characterized by edema and cellular infiltration of the scleral and episcleral tissues.
These complications are most common in necrotizing scleritis, the most destructive type of scleritis. Disease association may be found in about 57% of patients with scleritis. Up to 48% of patients with scleritis present with a known connective-tissue or vasculitic disease. Scleritis is a chronic, painful, and potentially blinding inflammatory disease that is characterized by edema and cellular infiltration of the scleral and episcleral tissues.
Corneal disease in patients with RA can be an isolated complication, but it is most commonly associated with keratoconjunctivitis sicca or a form of anterior scleritis. The spectrum of disease may include keratitis, sclerosing keratitis, and peripheral or paracentral ulcerative keratitis 1, 2, 6, 7 (Table 2) . Scleritis (Figure 3) or episcleritis (Figure 4) in patients with RA occurs at a prevalence rate of 4 to 10 percent. 1 RA is the most common cause of scleritis, accounting for approximately 18 to 33 percent of cases.
Scleritis is an uncommon disease and is differentiated from episcleritis, which is a more common ocular condition. In episcleritis, only the superficial tissue between the white of the eye (sclera) and the blood vessel-filled covering (conjunctiva) is inflamed. 1 Scleritis is an inflammation of the white of the eye. 2  It is serious eye disease which is often associated with underlying autoimmune disorders. 3  Prompt diagnosis and treatment is essential in preventing permanent vision loss.
INTRODUCTION Scleritis is a severe, destructive inflammatory disease affecting the eye wall. In Watson’s series, 46% of the patients had an identifiable systemic disease (1). Rheumatoid arthritis is by far the most common systemic condition associated with scleritis (2). 
Scleritis facts. 1  Scleritis is an inflammation of the white of the eye. 2  It is serious eye disease which is often associated with underlying autoimmune disorders. 3  Prompt diagnosis and treatment is essential in preventing permanent vision loss. 1