The cartilaginous fish, or Chondricthyes, include the sharks, rays, skates, and chimaeras. There are over eight hundred living species of sharks and rays, and about thirty species of chimaeras. Cartilaginous fish are true fish. They have fins and breathe with gills. Sharks, rays, and chimaeras or ratfishes make up the cartilaginous fishes (Chondrichthyes), one of the two major groups of fishes. The other major group is the ray-finned fishes (Actinopterygii). Unlike the more familiar rayfinned fishes, the cartilaginous fishes have skeletons composed entirely of cartilage.
Cartilaginous fishes (Class Chondrichthyes, from Greek chondros, cartilage, and ichthos, fish) are a class of aquatic, gill-breathing, finned vertebrates (animals with a vertebral column or `backbone'), equivalent to the bony fishes (Class Osteichthyes: osteos, bone, and ichthos, fish). 
The cartilaginous fish, or Chondricthyes, include the sharks, rays, skates, and chimaeras. There are over eight hundred living species of sharks and rays, and about thirty species of chimaeras. Cartilaginous fish are true fish. They have fins and breathe with gills. 
Cartilaginous fish. The cartilaginous fish are so named because their skeleton is composed of cartilage which is not reinforced by the minerals that make bone. These minerals are only present in their teeth and skin. 
Characteristics of Cartilaginous Fish: In addition to the difference in their skeletons, cartilaginous fish have gills that open to the ocean through slits, rather than the bony covering that is present in bony fish. Different shark species may have different numbers of gill slits. Cartilaginous fish may also breathe through spiracles, rather than gills. Answer: Cartilaginous fish are fish that have a skeleton made of cartilage, rather than bone. All sharks, skates, and rays (e.g., the southern stingray) are cartilaginous fish. These fish all fall into the group of fish called the elasmobranchs.
The class Chondrichthyes consists of the cartilaginous fishes, including sharks, batoids (rays, skates, guitarfish, and sawfishes), and chimaeras, or ratfishes. A diverse group comprising more than 700 species, Chondrichthyans are found throughout the world's oceans and in some freshwater environments. Sharks, rays, and chimaeras or ratfishes make up the cartilaginous fishes (Chondrichthyes), one of the two major groups of fishes. The other major group is the ray-finned fishes (Actinopterygii). Unlike the more familiar rayfinned fishes, the cartilaginous fishes have skeletons composed entirely of cartilage.
Skates and Rays. Cartilaginous fish (scientific name Chondrichthyes) have a skeleton made from cartilage instead of bone. Cartilage is tough and flexible and provides enough structural support to allow these fish to grow to very large sizes. Cartilaginous fish include sharks, rays, skates and chimaeras. There are approximately 600 different species of rays and skates and about 500 shark species. Rays and skates live in oceans throughout the world. Most rays and skates live on the bottom of the ocean while some live in open water