A typical line set size for a 5 Ton air conditioner is ¾ and we can see that in R22 Freon systems we will need to add 0.62 ounces of Freon for each foot of line set over 15 feet. A fifty foot line set will cause you 5 Ton air conditioner to use an additional 1 pound 5.7 ounces.
Take the recommended 12,000 BTU units for example, a portable air conditioner is recommended for a 400 square feet roomwhere a window unit is recommended for a 550 square feet room. In other word, for the same sized room, we will need a higher BTU portable unit.
The average lifespan for an air conditioner is 10 to 15 years. Some air conditioners last up to 20 years. As interesting as these data points may be, they don't tell you the whole story. The issue is that a variety of factors affect the lifespan of an air conditioner. When you buy a new A/C unit, you may be given a rough estimate about how long it will last.
Like any homeowner, you'd probably like your air conditioner to last for a very long time. After all, a decent unit represents a sizeable investment. When you consider the important role that an air conditioner plays in the indoor comfort of your home, however, the cost is well worth it.
1. Change your air filter every 3 months. Changing the air filter is as important for your air conditioner as changing the oil is for your car. Put in a new filter at the start of summer, and then at least once every 3 months after that.
BTU rating is the amount of heat an air conditioner can remove from a room. For a duel hose portable A/C, about 30% of that heat is the waste heat produced by the unit itself. For single hose portable air conditioner, about 50% of that heat is produced by the unit or sucked in by the unit from outside the house.
You can safety assume that this 5 Ton air conditioner system contains approximately 10-11 pounds of Freon total in a normal 25 foot line set installation with a matching coil. Add 2 pounds to the outdoor unit specification will cover most units.
WHAT IT IS. An air conditioner can change the temperature, humidity or general quality of the air. More specifically, an air conditioner makes your home cooler, by drawing heat energy out of the house and transferring that heat to the outdoors, then replacing the air inside your home with cooler air.