If you are asking how long it takes for a piercing to close up after taking out the earring, then I would say that depends on how long you had them pirced. I had mine pierced several times before learning this.
Well the piercing needs to heal, this can take up to a year for a piercing to become seasoned (this is when you can remove the jewellery for a few hours and not have an issue … putting it back in). Average heal time can vary from piercing to piercing from 4~6 weeks for some and other a lot longer. Light heals are not considered healed and can be damaged by removing the jewellery too soon. Nostril piercings can take 6 months to 1 year to heal completely, and a septum piercing usually takes about 3 months.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I've had my nose pierced for 13 years & if I take mine out for like 6 hours its tight putting it back in, but it depends too on what gauge you wear.I think you will be totally fine for a couple hours.
As we have said the time frame for a newly pierced nose to completely heal varies from 2 to 4 months for nostril piercing and 6 to 8 months for septum piercings. Swelling and other symptoms that appear immediately after the piercing is done however normally go away in 10 to 15 days.
Nostril piercings tend to close down very quickly. The inside of the piercing is a mucus membrane, which usually will not stay open without jewelry in it. We have seen fully healed (1+ years) nostril piercings shrink down within 10 minutes. For this reason, we suggest you always keep jewelry in your nostril piercing.
We have all along been saying that you shouldn’t remove your piercing during the healing time to not only avoid infections but also to avoid close up especially given the fact that a piercing on the nose of less than four weeks closes up in less that 24 hours if the ring or stud is removed.
Well the piercing needs to heal, this can take up to a year for a piercing to become seasoned (this is when you can remove the jewellery for a few hours and not have an issue … putting it back in). Average heal time can vary from piercing to piercing from 4~6 weeks for some and other a lot longer. Light heals are not considered healed and can be damaged by removing the jewellery too soon. Nostril piercings can take 6 months to 1 year to heal completely, and a septum piercing usually takes about 3 months.