Ocean Wave Energy. Ocean wave energy is captured directly from surface waves or from pressure fluctuations below the surface. Waves are caused by the wind blowing over the surface of the ocean. In many areas of the world, the wind blows with enough consistency and force to provide continuous waves along the shoreline. Ocean waves contain ..
The type of wave energy that Oceanlinx converts into electricity is a combination of the kinetic and potential energy of water particles. Waves cause the water particles to oscillate in elliptical paths, with the maximum kinetic energy happening as the height of the wave passes through the mean sea level. You can feel the constantly varying effect when floating in the surf zone, as it pulls you back and forward, and up and down. It is the ocean swell waves that are the best form of wave for Oceanlinx technology. Wave energy is not to be mistaken for tidal energy. Tides are caused by the gravitational pull of the moon and sun, and have a period of around 12 hours, whereas ocean waves have a period of around 10 seconds. Due to these vast differences the technology required to extract this energy is extremely different
Wave energy is an irregular and oscillating low-frequency energy source that can be converted to a 60-Hertz frequency and can then be added to the electric utility grid. The energy in waves comes from the movement of the ocean and the changing heights and speed of the swells. Kinetic energy, the energy of motion, in waves is tremendous. An average 4-foot, 10-second wave striking a coast puts out more than 35,000 horsepower per mile of coast. Waves get their energy from the wind.
Wave power devices extract energy from the surface motion of ocean waves or from pressure fluctuations below the surface. Ocean wave energy is captured directly from surface waves or from pressure fluctuations below the surface. Waves are caused by the wind blowing over the surface of the ocean.
1 In electromagnetic waves, energy is transferred through vibrations of electric and magnetic fields. 2  In sound waves, energy is transferred through vibration of air particles or particles of a solid through which the sound travels. 3  In water waves, energy is transferred through the vibration of the water particles. 1 In sound waves, energy is transferred through vibration of air particles or particles of a solid through which the sound travels. 2  In water waves, energy is transferred through the vibration of the water particles.
Wave power is the transport of energy by ocean surface waves, and the capture of that energy to do useful work – for example, electricity generation, water desalination, or the pumping of water (into reservoirs). Wave power is distinct from the diurnal flux of tidal power and the steady gyre of ocean currents. Wave-power generation is not currently a widely employed commercial technology, although there have been attempts to use it since at least 1890
Generating technologies for deriving electrical power from the ocean include tidal power, wave power, ocean thermal energy conversion, ocean currents, ocean winds and salinity gradients. Of these, the three most well-developed technologies are tidal power, wave power and ocean thermal energy conversion. 