Neutropenia is an abnormally low level of neutrophils in the blood. Neutrophils are white blood cells (WBCs) produced in the bone marrow that ingest bacteria. Neutropenia is sometimes called agranulocytosis or granulocytopenia because neutrophils make up about 60% of WBCs and have granules inside their cell walls. Neutrophils are the most common type of granulocyte. Neutrophil — A granular white blood cell that ingests bacteria, dead tissue cells, and foreign matter. Sargramostim — A medication made from yeast that stimulates WBC production. It is sold under the trade names Leukine and Prokine.
neonatal neutropenia, alloimmune neutropenia in the newborn due to in utero incompatibility between its immunoglobulin G antigens and those of the mother's blood; the mother's blood produces antibodies that cross the placenta and sensitize fetal neutrophils. Neutrophils are the most common type of granulocyte. Neutrophil — A granular white blood cell that ingests bacteria, dead tissue cells, and foreign matter. Sargramostim — A medication made from yeast that stimulates WBC production. It is sold under the trade names Leukine and Prokine.
In this article. People with neutropenia have an unusually low number of cells called neutrophils. Neutrophils are cells in your immune system that attack bacteria and other organisms when they invade your body. Neutrophils are a type of white blood cell. Your bone marrow creates these cells
Definition of Neutropenia. Neutropenia: Not enough neutrophils, neutrophils being a type of white blood cell (specifically a form of granulocyte) filled with neutrally-staining granules, tiny sacs of enzymes that help the cell to kill and digest microorganisms it has engulfed by phagocytosis. 
Characteristics and symptoms of neutropenic fever: 1  When a person is neutropenic (has low white blood cells or neutrophils) the usual signs of infection (redness, swelling and pus formation) are absent. 1 When a person is neutropenic (has low white blood cells or neutrophils) the usual signs of infection (redness, swelling and pus formation) are absent. 2  Pain and tenderness may be the only other indicators of infection.
Approved by the Cancer.Net Editorial Board, 08/2015. Neutropenia is a low level of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell. All white blood cells help the body fight infection. Neutrophils fight infection by destroying harmful bacteria and fungi or yeast that invade the body. Neutrophils are made in the bone marrow. 
Knowledge center. Neutropenia is a blood condition, a granulocyte disorder, that characterized by a deficiency of neutrophils, a type of white blood cell that defends the body against bacterial and fungal infections. Granulocytes are a category of white blood cells. They are made in bone marrow. 