Usually the microwave would be in line with the bottom of the upper cabinets, so it can vary a bit from each kitchen. Transitional West Hollywood Condo Makeover · More Info. Like Bookmark August 24, 2012 at 7:48PM. Thank you for reporting this comment. Those microwave range hoods are ideal over an electric or an induction cooktop, as you can get away with an 18-20 clearance. (a microwave installed so the bottom of it sits 30 above the cooktop is only good if you happen to be 6'6 or taller!).
Re: Microwave/range hood distance to range top. SECTION M1901. RANGES AND OVENS. M1901.1 Clearances. Freestanding or built-in ranges shall have a vertical clearance above the cooking top of not less than 30 inches (762 mm) to unprotected combustible material. Reduced clearances are permitted in accordance with the listing and labeling of the range hoods or appliances. M1901.2 Cooking appliances
The standard height for a microwave-hood combination to be installed is 18 inches above the range top, which is usually 54 inches above the the finished floor. This is typically higher than recomm... Read More ». 
Long story short: To install an over-the-range microwave oven, you need to have enough space between wall cabinets flanking the range and between the cooktop and ceiling. There should be a cabinet or shelf above the spot where the microwave will be installed so that you can fasten the top of the microwave to it. Most OTR microwaves are just under 30 in. wide; heights vary from about 10 to 18 inches and depths vary from 12 to about 18 inches. You can try using a stud finder (I've never had much luck with them), or look for fasteners inside the wall cabinets and measure in 16-inch increments over toward the wall where the microwave will be mounted. Wall studs are usually spaced 16 inches on-center, so you should be able to project the stud positions.
Kitchen remodel about to begin. We just ordered our new SS range and over the range microwave. There will be 16 inches of clearance from the bottom of the microwave unit to the cook top (smooth top,electric) . Hubby is worried there won't be enough clearance to work on the back burners of the stove. Walkerhurt, I have the same problem. My cabinet over the range is 15 deep. Our current 6 year old microwave (ductless) just died, but it vented out of the top, and the vents were always partially blocked. I would like one that allows the vents to be exposed.
So the distance from the stove top to the bottom of the microwave must be no less about 52 inches off of the floor. This means that the standard installation height of your thirty inch high wall cupboard is going to be at fifty four inches (54) off of the floor. 
Report Abuse. The correct distance to the top of a microwave with a hood is 24 inches minimum, to an unprotected surface you need 30 inches minimum. Some appliances may have lesser clearance ratings, but unless you have the installation manual that states the clearance ratings you should go with the above clearances. 
Add the height of your microwave to determine the bottom of the cabinet over the microwave. This will put the bottom of your microwave at the 54 mark. 16-19 is the going height nowadays for modern microwaves, with 17 being the most common size. However, they then decided on a microwave unit above a gas range, and the microwave manufacturer, Panasonic, stated that the unit could be within a minimum of 13 5/8 from the countertop for an electric stove, and 16 for a gas range. Ah ha-now we have a problem!
All over the range micros will be 16 high though I have done a few odd ones that are 15 or 17 high. There are no codes that specify how high from the range top the bottom of the micro should be and if you look it up you will get more answers then you can shake a stick at. I will give an easy example how this is done. If that cabinet above the range top were 12 high then the micro below would be 16 tall and now the bottom of the micro will be 2 higher then the bottom of the upper cabinets. This is the less desirable layout. If you do not have a vent pipe above and inside that over the micro cabinet then don't worry