The Cerebrum: The cerebrum or cortex is the largest part of the human brain, associated with higher brain function such as thought and action. The cerebral cortex is divided into four sections, called lobes: the frontal lobe, parietal lobe, occipital lobe, and temporal lobe. The Cerebellum: The cerebellum, or little brain, is similar to the cerebrum in that it has two hemispheres and has a highly folded surface or cortex. This structure is associated with regulation and coordination of movement, posture, and balance.
Symptoms of brain tumours affecting the parietal lobe. The parietal lobe contains areas responsible for the sensation of touch and association, this area enables fine judgement of sensation such as texture, weight, size. Symptoms of tumours in this area include: 1  Loss of sensation in part of the body. Symptoms of brain tumours affecting the Frontal Lobe. The frontal lobes determine personality and contain the area called the motor cortex that controls movement of the muscles of the body (the motor cortex on the right half of the brain controls the left side of the body and vice versa).
1 This middle area of the brain can also be used to relay information from the sense of touch, including pain or pressure which is affecting different portions of the body. 2  Motor Cortex-This helps the brain monitor and control movement throughout the body. 3  It is located in the top, middle portion of the brain. The brain is made up of nerve cells which interact with the rest of the body through the spinal cord and nervous system. These cells relate information back to specific centers of the brain where it can be processed and an appropriate reaction can be generated.
The brain areas are further subdivided into the frontal lobe, occipital lobe, parietal lobe, and the temporal lobe. Each of these also has a unique role, and each of these also communicates and works with the other areas of the brain. Brain function is almost always a collaborative effort between the different sections. Different brain areas are responsible for different tasks, but it is essential that all areas of the brain work in conjunction to perform tasks, as the majority will require more than one of the brain areas. The first division of brain areas is the split between the left and right hemispheres.
Communication between neurons can also be electrical, such as in areas of the brain that control movement. When electrical signals are abnormal, they can cause tremors or symptoms found in Parkinson's disease. 1  Serotonin —helps control many functions, such as mood, appetite, and sleep. 
The brain is divided into areas which are each responsible for different areas of functioning. The brain can be divided into three basic units: the forebrain, the midbrain and the hindbrain. These areas are: Occipital lobe, Temporal lobe, Parietal lobe, Frontal lobe. Cerebral cortex, Cerebellum, Hypothalamus,Thalamus,Pituitary gland, Pineal gland, Amygdala, Hippocampas and the Mid-brain. The image below indicates where the areas are. Occipital lobe: This is found in the back of the brain. The area is involved with the brain's ability to recognise objects. It is responsible for our vision.
Temporal lobe: The temporal lobes are found on either side of the brain and just above the ears. The temporal lobes are responsible for hearing, memory, meaning, and language. They also play a role in emotion and learning. The temporal lobes are concerned with interpreting and processing auditory stimuli. The image below indicates where the areas are. Occipital lobe: This is found in the back of the brain. The area is involved with the brain's ability to recognise objects. It is responsible for our vision.
Areas of the Brain and their Functions. The brain is divided into lobes as illustrated above and below: Frontal Lobes. The frontal lobes are part of the Cerebral Cortex and are the largest of the brain's structures. They are the main site of so–called 'higher' Cognitive functions. Symptoms of brain tumours affecting the Frontal Lobe. The frontal lobes determine personality and contain the area called the motor cortex that controls movement of the muscles of the body (the motor cortex on the right half of the brain controls the left side of the body and vice versa).
The cerebrum is the largest portion of the brain, and contains tools which are responsible for most of the brain's function. It is divided into four sections: the temporal lobe, the occipital lobe, parietal lobe and frontal lobe. The brain is made up of nerve cells which interact with the rest of the body through the spinal cord and nervous system. These cells relate information back to specific centers of the brain where it can be processed and an appropriate reaction can be generated.
It helps to control vision. 1  Broca's Area-This area of the brain controls the facial neurons as well as the understanding of speech and language. 2  It is located in the triangular and opercular section of the inferior frontal gyrus. The brain is made up of nerve cells which interact with the rest of the body through the spinal cord and nervous system. These cells relate information back to specific centers of the brain where it can be processed and an appropriate reaction can be generated.