Combine the ground turkey, bread crumbs, eggs, and onion mixture in a large bowl. Mix well and shape into a rectangular loaf on an ungreased sheet pan. Spread the ketchup evenly on top. Bake for 1 1/2 hours until the internal temperature is 160 degrees F. and the meatloaf is cooked through.
To prepare meat loaf, mix ground meat (beef), egg, crushed crackers, bread crumbs or oatmeal, salt, black pepper, and mix it well. You can add ketchup or a little Worcestershire sauce for more flavour. Fresh herbs of your choice can also be added in this mix. Use lean meat if you are watching your diet.
What Temperature Do You Cook Meatloaf. Meatloaf can be cooked at 375-400°F in an oven till it reaches an internal temperature of 160°. A large pack of ground meat, about two pounds, takes about one hour fifteen minutes or so. The temperature and time can vary depending on the taste and method of cooking.
This keeps you from having a dry meatloaf. Baking time 350 degrees 1 hour for every 1 1/2 pound. I use 2 pounds of chuck and 1 pound of sausage in my meatloaf and I always bake it at 350 for at least 3 hours but like I recommend cover with foil until the last 15 mins.
Remove from heat and let cool slightly. Make the meatloaf mix: In a large mixing bowl, combine the ground meat, beaten eggs, Worcestershire sauce, salt and pepper, soaked bread and milk, and the cooked vegetables. Use your hands to work the ingredients together until just combined.
1 Transfer the mixture to a 5x9 inch loaf pan. 2  Bake uncovered in the preheated oven 40 minutes. 3  Increase oven temperature to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C), and continue baking 15 minutes, to an internal temperature of 160 degrees F (70 degrees C). 4  In a small bowl, mix the remaining tomato sauce and ketchup.
Directions. Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. In a small bowl, stir together the oats and milk. Thinly slice 1/4 of the onion and set aside. Finely chop the remaining onion. In a large bowl combine the turkey, oat mixture, chopped onion, bell pepper, eggs, Worcestershire sauce, ketchup, salt and a few grinds of pepper.
1 Bake uncovered in the preheated oven 40 minutes. 2  Increase oven temperature to 400 degrees F (200 degrees C), and continue baking 15 minutes, to an internal temperature of 160 degrees F (70 degrees C). 3  In a small bowl, mix the remaining tomato sauce and ketchup.