Moonstone. Learn about the metaphysical and healing properties of moonstone, a crystal of intuition, hope, and more. Moonstone is said in crystal healing to help calm responses and stress, and avoid overreaction. It is a stone of calm and relief from emotional stress. It is also associated with love of all kinds. Physically moonstone is used in crystal healing to aid the pituitary gland and digestive system, obesity, water retention, hormonal problems, menstrual problems.
White Moonstone carries the energy of the new moon at the height of its power, stimulating psychic perception, vision and dream work. It can magnify one's emotions, activating the kundalini energy in women and emotional balance in men, and is supportive in children to drive away nightmares or insomnia. To women, Moonstone reveals their feminine power and abilities of clairvoyance, and gives rise to the kundalini energy. Moonstone helps men become more in-tune with the feminine aspects of their nature, and stimulates the right side of the brain, encouraging nonlinear thinking and emotional balance.
Translucent with white, pink, yellow, soft sheen. Metaphysical: Moon stone helps to soothe and balance the emotions. They assist in the master of your emotions by bringing them under control of your will, instead of repressing or expressing them. Moonstone represents the great Mother Goddess. Meaning of crystals, healing stones, power stones, crystal energy, chakra healing, chakra balancing, chakra cleansing, reiki healing.
Scientific Gemstone Properties. Mohs Hardness of 6 with a monoclinic crystal structure. Moonstone is the opalescent variety of Orthoclase, which is an alkali feldspar. With a blue or white sheen, (referred to as a “schiller”), it has an appearance rather like the shine of the moon, hence it’s name. The sheen is created by the reflection of light from the internal structure of very thin layers of Albite.
It is also said to bring strong energies of abundance to one's life. Moonstone is a stone of protection, especially during childbirth, pregnancy, and travel at sea. It is a stone of calm and relief from emotional stress. It is also associated with love of all kinds. Physically moonstone is used in crystal healing to aid the pituitary gland and digestive system, obesity, water retention, hormonal problems, menstrual problems.
As the name suggests, Moonstone is strongly connected to moon and to intuition as well. It is also first and foremost a women’s stone, directly associated with the Mother Goddess. Like the moon, this stone’s reflective schiller reminds one that as the moon waxes and wanes through a natural cycle, as do we. Moonstone is the opalescent variety of Orthoclase, which is an alkali feldspar. With a blue or white sheen, (referred to as a “schiller”), it has an appearance rather like the shine of the moon, hence it’s name. The sheen is created by the reflection of light from the internal structure of very thin layers of Albite.
Moonstone Chakra Healing and Balancing Energy. The white crystal energies present in all Moonstones have an association with the Crown Chakra and our spiritual center. They represent personal identification with the Infinite, and oneness with God, peace and wisdom. To women, Moonstone reveals their feminine power and abilities of clairvoyance, and gives rise to the kundalini energy. Moonstone helps men become more in-tune with the feminine aspects of their nature, and stimulates the right side of the brain, encouraging nonlinear thinking and emotional balance.
Moonstone is composed of Orthoclase and Albite, two species from the Feldspar group. Rainbow Moonstone is a name often given to Labradorite in a white matrix. Moonstone is a 3rd Anniversary gemstone. 
The Chakra Wand Moonstone Healing is superbly handcrafted and adorned with silver. The size of the wand may vary from 7 to 8 in length. A genuine, clear quartz point stands at one end and the base is decorated by a polished clear quartz ball. 
Because the Rainbow Moonstone meaning linked with the Crown Chakra, the strength of this stone will shine to give psychic protection, strengthening the senses and cleaning the negative thoughts. The Metaphysical powers of this colorful gemstones is said to be able to give a good dream and make sleep more soundly. This transparent gems, which has good vibrations with the number 4, also known as the ‘Rainbow Moonstone‘ because it can take color from its surroundings. This stone is considered a sacred stone by the Indians and believed to bring good fortune. This gemstone dull and translucent with white milk or bluish white.