Dose adjustments may be made based upon an assessment of how your horse is responding clinically. Ideally, give this medication at the same time(s) daily. Ceftiofur sodium is purchased as a powder and should be reconstituted as follows: 1 gram vial-Reconstitute with 20 mL sterile water for injection. Each mL of the resulting solution contains ceftiofur sodium equivalent to 50 mg ceftiofur. 4 gram vial-Reconstitute with 80 mL sterile water for injection. Each mL of the resulting solution contains ceftiofur sodium equivalent to 50 mg ceftiofur. 
A third-generation cephalosporin, ceftiofur, and a fourth-generation cephalosporin, cefquinome, have been developed strictly for veterinary use. Cefquinome has been approved in several countries for the treatment of respiratory disease in cattle and swine, foot rot in cattle and for mastitis in dairy cattle. Ceftiofur has worldwide approvals for respiratory disease in swine, ruminants (cattle, sheep and goats) and horses and has also been approved for foot rot and metritis infections in cattle. Ceftiofur has also been approved in various countries for early mortality infections in day-old chicks and turkey poults.
Usage. Ceftiofur is used primarily for treatment of respiratory diseases, but may also be used whenever a broad-spectrum antibiotic is desired. It is also prescribed in the treatment of Lyme disease and strangles. Description. Ceftiofur is a newer drug in the class of cephalosporin antibiotics that kill bacteria by disrupting construction of the bacterial cell wall. It is effective against many different bacteria, including Streptococcus zooepidemicus and Strep Equi, which cause major respiratory problems.
Finish the job with fewer doses. EXCEDE is indicated for the treatment of lower respiratory tract infections in horses caused by susceptible strains of Streptococcus equi subspecies zooepidemicus (S. zooepidemicus). EXCEDE contains ceftiofur in a crystalline form, called Ceftiofur Crystalline Free Acid, or CCFA. The final product is a ready-to-use sterile suspension of CCFA in oil. EXCEDE is the first and only licensed antibiotic for horses that offers a full course of therapy in just 2 doses
Naxcel is a broad spectrum injectable antibiotic used in the treatment of multiple species of animals. Naxcel is indicated for the treatment of respiratory disease in cattle, swine, sheep, goats and horses. In cattle, Naxcel is indicated for treatment of bovine respiratory disease (shipping fever, pneumonia) associated with Mannheimia haemolytica, Pasteurella multocida and Histophilus somni. Naxcel must be reconstituted with sterile water before use. Each ml of the resulting solution contains ceftiofur sodium equivalent to 50 mg ceftiofur. For intramuscular and subcutaneous injection in cattle. For intramuscular injection in swine, sheep, goats and horses. For subcutaneous injection in dogs, day-old chickens and day-old turkey poults.
Ceftiofur Hydrochloride is a cephalosporin antibiotic. The compound is a derivative of a third generation cephalosporin, Ceftiofur. Ceftiofur has been used in bovine studies and in antibiotic resistancy studies of Escherichia coli and Salmonella enterica.
Ceftiofur sodium is purchased as a powder and should be reconstituted as follows: 1 gram vial-Reconstitute with 20 mL sterile water for injection. Each mL of the resulting solution contains ceftiofur sodium equivalent to 50 mg ceftiofur. 4 gram vial-Reconstitute with 80 mL sterile water for injection. Each mL of the resulting solution contains ceftiofur sodium equivalent to 50 mg ceftiofur. Once reconstituted, Ceftiofur should be used within 12 hours at room temperature or stored in the refrigerator for up to 7 days. At the end of this period, any remaining reconstituted product can be frozen once for up to 8 weeks.
Ceftiofur is an antibiotic of the cephalosporin type (third generation), licensed for use in veterinary medicine. It was first described in 1987. It is marketed by pharmaceutical company Pfizer as Excenel, and is the active ingredient in that company's Specramast LC (lactating cow formula) product. It is resistant to the antibiotic resistance enzyme beta-lactamase, and has activity against both Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. E. coli strains resistant to ceftiofur have been reported. The metabolite desfurolyceftiofur also has antibiotic activity