What do they look and taste like? Answer: Capers are the unripened flower buds of Capparis spinosa, a prickly, perennial plant which is native to the Mediterranean and some parts of Asia. After the buds are harvested, they are dried in the sun, then pickled in vinegar, brine, wine or salt. The curing brings out their tangy lemony flavor, much the same as green olives. The size of the buds range from tiny (about the size of a baby petite green pea) up to the size of a small olive.
Daniel Loiselle / Getty Images. In the culinary arts, capers are a condiment, usually pickled, that are made from the immature flower buds of the caper bush (Capparis spinosa), which grows in Mediterranean regions. Capers are used in a number of Italian recipes such as chicken piccata, veal piccata and pasta puttanesca. Sometimes capers are cured by salting rather than pickling. Cooking with capers is a matter of balancing their tangy, briny, pickly flavor against some sort of smooth, buttery or velvety flavors and textures. Another use for capers is as a pizza topping. I'd personally make a pizza topped with mozzarella cheese, sliced red onions and capers. Capers are also the traditional garnish for beef carpaccio. They can also go in chicken salad, pasta salad or potato salad, on top of deviled eggs, or in the classic Nicoise salad.
There are a handful of ingredients that can really add life to a dish: lemon, vinegar, anchovies, olives -- and capers. David Rosengarten visited Pantelleria, Italy, or what he calls caper heaven.. He explains the difference between caper buds and berries and debunks a caper food myth that just won't go away. There are several ways you can do it. You can mix the caper buds with good, coarse salt; you can mix them with salt and water, making a brine; or you can mix them with salt and vinegar or salt, water and vinegar. But basically there are two ways to go: the liquid way or the dry way with the salt.
Dark green buds which are sun-dried and then packed in a vinegar brine. Capers range in size from tiny nonpareils from France, favored for their delicate texture and more pronounced taste to larger sizes, which are stronger in flavor and less aromatic. You can purchase stemmed caper berries, the size of a cocktail olive, from Spain.
The plant is best known for the edible flower buds (capers), often used as a seasoning, and the fruit (caper berries), both of which are usually consumed pickled. Other species of Capparis are also picked along with C. spinosa for their buds or fruits. 
Capers. Pronounce it: kay-per. Capers are the small flower buds of the Capparis shrub, which grows in the Mediterranean. As they're picked by hand they're fairly pricey but they're a versatile store cupboard ingredient, and are good for adding a distinctive sour/salty flavour to many savoury dishes. Really small, peppercorn-sized capers, called 'nonpareille' are available, but the slightly larger ones are more common. Capers are preserved a number of ways-either in salt, wine vinegar, brine or olive oil.
Capers -- those salty, pea-sized dark green things -- are one of those ingredients you see a lot but may not fully understand. They're commonplace across many cuisines: You'll find them in Mediterranean dishes like chicken piccata or spaghetti puttanesca, and in French dishes like salade Nicoise. Capers are pickled flower buds. Tiny capers are picked from a shrub-like bush (Capparis spinosa), long before the buds ever flower. The capers are then dried in the sun and later brined or packed in salt. (To use capers in recipes it's a good idea to rinse them first, to remove all the excess salt or brine.).
Torrie Huddleston, Glen, MS A: Capers are the pickled flower buds of a thorny, trailing shrub that grows like a weed all over the Mediterranean. It's a stubborn, ornery plant, difficult to cultivate, with a preference for dry, stony places. 