Delay, delay, delay. That's what most experts advise when it comes to claiming Social Security retirement benefits. By waiting to claim your benefit until after full retirement age -- which for older baby-boomers is 66 -- you can earn delayed retirement credits of 8% a year until you reach age 70. Once you hit full retirement age, the Social Security Administration will recalculate your benefit, taking into account the amount you forfeited, and adjust your monthly payment upward. For example, let's say you start benefits at 62 but have 12 months' worth of benefits withheld because of the earnings test.
The age at which you can start receiving full Social Security retirement benefits is a moving target and depends on the year you were born (see table below). You can elect to take benefits early at age 62 (earlier only if you are a survivor or on disability), or wait as late as age 70. If you previously elected to receive early Social Security benefits at a reduced rate, you have the option of paying back to the government what you've already received. You could then restart benefits at a later date to take advantage of a higher payout. This option is limited to one year's worth of benefits.
For example, if your full retirement age is 66 and you elect to start benefits at age 62, the reduced benefit calculation is based on 48 months. This means that the reduction for the first 36 months is 20% (five-ninths of 1% times 36) and 5% (five-twelfths of 1% times 12) for the remaining 12 months. If you previously elected to receive early Social Security benefits at a reduced rate, you have the option of paying back to the government what you've already received. You could then restart benefits at a later date to take advantage of a higher payout. This option is limited to one year's worth of benefits.
If you claim benefits after full retirement age. From your full retirement age until you reach age 70, the Social Security Administration (SSA) will increase your benefits by 8% per year. Let's see how this plays out. Your full retirement age varies between 66 and 67 depending on when you were born. (To determine your full retirement age, visit the Social Security Administration's website and click Find your full retirement age .). If you claim benefits before
One reason some argue that it's smart to take Social Security early is that, while your monthly checks are reduced by 25% for the rest of your life, you get four extra years' worth of checks more than you would by claiming at your full retirement age, assuming a full retirement age of 66. If you claim Social Security benefits early, you'll be ahead in terms of total Social Security benefits received until you turn age 78, which is the breakeven point where you would have received the same amount by claiming benefits at your full retirement age.
If you apply at age 62, which is the earliest allowed, then your benefits will be 25% lower than your primary insurance amount -- that is, the amount you're entitled to upon reaching full retirement. If you can wait to take Social Security benefits, that's great. Go ahead and do so. But if you can't or don't want to, then there's no reason to second-guess your decision to take them early. How one Seattle couple secured a $60K Social Security bonus -- and you can too.
With Social Security, you never run out of money. Tom Sightings For many of us – people born between 1943 and 1954 – the regular retirement age is 66. You're eligible for Social Security as early as age 62, but you suffer a penalty if you start then. You can also delay taking benefits until 70, and then you get a bonus. Tom Sightings. The penalty for taking Social Security early is around 7 percent a year, and the bonus for delaying is also about 7 percent a year. If your benefit at age 66 is figured at the average of $1,268 a month, then you'll only receive about $1,180 per month if you sign up at age 65. 
See also: Choosing when to take Social Security benefits. To get your full Social Security benefit, you have to claim at your full retirement age. That's 66 for people born between 1943 and 1954 (after that, it gradually creeps up to 67). You can claim as early as 62, but your benefit will be sliced by 25 percent. By contrast, you get a big bonus for retiring late. 
If you retired early, at age 62, you'd receive only about $15,885 in Social Security annually from retirement until the end of your life. If you waited to retire until age 70, you'd receive about $28,000 annually, an 87% increase in monthly payments over claiming them at age 62. Your full retirement age varies between 66 and 67 depending on when you were born. (To determine your full retirement age, visit the Social Security Administration's website and click Find your full retirement age .). If you claim benefits before full retirement age.
Larry Kotlikoff: Unfortunately, thanks to Social Security’s nasty deeming provision, if you take a reduced early spousal benefit, you’ll be forced to take your own reduced early retirement benefit and will just get what is, roughly speaking, the larger of the two reduced benefits. 