List of Foods Containing Good Bacteria. Yogurt is rich in good bacteria. Photo Credit George Doyle/Stockbyte/Getty Images. When you think of bacteria your first thoughts maybe of disease and sickness, but some bacteria are necessary for human health and can even help prevent disease. These bacteria are known as probiotics. Photo Credit oksix/iStock/Getty Images. Though yogurt may be the most well-known source of probiotics, kefir is actually a better source of the healthy bacteria, with three times more probiotic amount present than yogurt.
While probiotic-foods have live bacteria, prebiotic foods feed the good bacteria already living in your gut. You can find prebiotics in items such as asparagus, Jerusalem artichokes, bananas, oatmeal, red wine, honey, maple syrup, and legumes. Choose the unpasteurized kind, because pasteurization (used to treat most supermarket sauerkraut) kills active, good bacteria. This sour, salty food -- and the similar but spicy Korean dish, kimchi -- is also loaded with immune-boosting vitamins that may help ward off infection.
Foods rich in good bacteria include kefir, yogurt, miso soup, kombucha tea and fermented foods. Photo Credit oksix/iStock/Getty Images. Though yogurt may be the most well-known source of probiotics, kefir is actually a better source of the healthy bacteria, with three times more probiotic amount present than yogurt.
2. Kefir. Similar to yogurt, this fermented dairy product is a unique combination of goat’s milk and fermented kefir grains. High in lactobacilli and bifidus bacteria, kefir is also rich in antioxidants. Look for a good, organic version at your local health food shop. 1. One of the best probiotic foods is live-cultured yogurt, especially handmade. Look for brands made from goat’s milk that have been infused with extra forms of probiotics like lactobacillus or acidophilus. Goat’s milk and cheese are particularly high in probiotics like thermophillus, bifudus, bulgaricus and acidophilus
Yogurt. Yogurt is one of the most familiar sources of probiotics -- good bacteria that keep a healthy balance in your gut. Studies suggest that probiotics can help ease lactose intolerance. They also may help tame gas, diarrhea, and other digestive problems. Choose the unpasteurized kind, because pasteurization (used to treat most supermarket sauerkraut) kills active, good bacteria. This sour, salty food -- and the similar but spicy Korean dish, kimchi -- is also loaded with immune-boosting vitamins that may help ward off infection.
Lactobacillus. There are more than 80 species of the Lactobacillus genus of probiotics. One of these species, acidophilus, is the most frequently used good bacterium, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center. Lactobacillus acidophilus, also called L. acidophilus, resides in the intestines where it helps in the digestion of food. As part of the digestion process, L. acidophilus produces lactic acid and hydrogen peroxide, which create unfavorable conditions for the growth of harmful bacteria. Good bacteria, also called probiotics, are similar to bacteria that reside naturally in your body. Probiotics may be beneficial to your health, and they are available in yogurt or in various dietary supplements, according to the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine
Probiotics are beneficial forms of gut bacteria that help stimulate the natural digestive juices and enzymes that keep our digestive organs functioning properly. In addition to taking a probiotic supplement, you can also eat probiotic foods that are a host to these live bacterium. 1. One of the best probiotic foods is live-cultured yogurt, especially handmade. Look for brands made from goat’s milk that have been infused with extra forms of probiotics like lactobacillus or acidophilus. Goat’s milk and cheese are particularly high in probiotics like thermophillus, bifudus, bulgaricus and acidophilus