The Blitz. The Blitz refers to the strategic bombing campaign conducted by the Germans against London and other cities in England from September of 1940 through May of 1941, targeting populated areas, factories and dock yards. The first German attack on London actually occurred by accident. The Blitz The Blitz refers to the strategic bombing campaign conducted by the Germans against London and other cities in England from September of 1940 through May of 1941, targeting populated areas, factories and dock yards.
The first German raids on British cities had already taken place by the end of August 1940, when Birmingham and Liverpool were attacked, but on 7 September the Blitz intensified when around 950 German aircraft attacked London. 1 Location: London and other major cities. 2  Outcome: Allied victory at a high civilian cost. 3  The Blitz reduced pressure on the RAF, cost Germany enormous numbers of aircraft and personnel and failed to pave the way for the German invasion of Britain.
The Blitz though, was the nickname of the air raids against British cities during WWII. All during the war, but especially during the Summer of 1940, the German Air Force (Luftwaffe) sent waves of bombers against targets in British cities. However, suddenly and for no apparent reason, the Luftwaffe turned from bombing RAF facilities to bombing cities, first London and then others. This became known as the Blitz.
The Blitz (the London Blitz) was the sustained bombing of Britain by Nazi Germany between 7th September 1940 and 10th May 1941 during the World War Two. Every night bar one for ten solid weeks,from 7 September to 14 November 1940, London was attacked by an average of 160 bombers. 
Starting on 7 September 1940, one year into the war, London was bombed by the Luftwaffe for 57 consecutive nights. More than one million London houses were destroyed or damaged, and more than 40,000 civilians were killed, almost half of them in London. The Blitz did not facilitate Operation Sea Lion, the planned German invasion of Britain. By May 1941 the threat of an invasion of Britain had passed, and Hitler's attention had turned to Operation Barbarossa in the East.
By mid 1940 Hitler had control over mainland Europe. His next target was Britain. The Blitz was night time bombing raids on British cities, especially London, during the month of September in 1940. On average the Germans dropped 250 tonnes of bombs each time. Hitler's new plan for Britain was the Blitz. Because the Battle of Britain had failed, Hitler thought that by bombing the British into submission he would then be able to invade them. Another reason for Hitler starting the Blitz was to disrupt British economy and industry.
Air raids on London began in September 1940. This was the start of the Blitz. Lots of other places were bombed, including industrial cities and ports such as Birmingham, Coventry, Southampton, Sheffield, Manchester, Liverpool, Hull and Glasgow. There were air raids on seaside towns, such as Eastbourne, and on cathedral cities such as Canterbury.