DNA makes a good molecule for storing information because ____________. (1 point)its bases can be joined together in any order, like the letters of the alphabet can be strung to form different. 3. Sting. M. DNA makes a good molecule for storing information because its bases can be joined together in any order, like the letters of the alphabet can be strung to form different words. Added 1/3/2013 3:09:20 AM. This answer has been added to the Weegy Knowledgebase
Think of DNA like a computer code. Because it is stranded, in the famous double-helix, there are distinct patterns of information. Organisms share most of the same DNA, but there are distinct, specific patterns for each individual. DNA is simply a code maintained by the order of the nucleotides. The DNA is the sequence, but like any code, it requires something to decode it or read it. This is where messenger and transfer RNA come into play and the process of protein synthesis occurs
The structure of the double helix is somewhat like a ladder, with the base pairs forming the ladder’s rungs and the sugar and phosphate molecules forming the vertical sidepieces of the ladder. An important property of DNA is that it can replicate, or make copies of itself. The information in DNA is stored as a code made up of four chemical bases: adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C), and thymine (T).
Nitrogenous Bases. - make up the CODE for the information carried in DNA-these make DNA a good molecule for storing information because they can combine in any order-there are 4 kinds in DNA: adenine, guanine, cytosine, and thymine-have a chemical structure that makes them especially good at absorbing UV light. 
Chemically, DNA is a long polymer of simple units called nucleotides, with a backbone made of sugars and phosphate groups joined by ester bonds. Attached to each sugar is one of four types of molecules called bases. It is the sequence of these four bases along the backbone that encodes information. This information is read using the genetic code, which specifies the sequence of the amino acids within proteins. The code is read by copying stretches of DNA into the related nucleic acid RNA, in a process called transcription.
Answers. Best Answer: Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) is a nucleic acid that contains the genetic instructions used in the development and functioning of all known living organisms. The main role of DNA molecules is the long-term storage of information. DNA is often compared to a set of blueprints, since it contains the instructions needed to construct other components of cells, such as proteins and RNA molecules. It is the sequence of these four bases along the backbone that encodes information. This information is read using the genetic code, which specifies the sequence of the amino acids within proteins. The code is read by copying stretches of DNA into the related nucleic acid RNA, in a process called transcription.
Posted on. (Answer #2). DNA is a large molecule and therefore is a suitable molecule for storing genetic information. DNA is like a code with instructions that has the ability to not only store information, but command other cells, and replicate itself. It also has the ability to build more components of cells. 
DNA is a double helix formed by base pairs attached to a sugar-phosphate backbone. DNA, or deoxyribonucleic acid, is the hereditary material in humans and almost all other organisms. Nearly every cell in a person’s body has the same DNA. The information in DNA is stored as a code made up of four chemical bases: adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C), and thymine (T).