If your doctor told you to take aspirin to help prevent a heart attack, you need to know that taking ibuprofen at the same time, for pain relief, may interfere with the benefits of aspirin for the heart. 
Wear goggles throughout this experiment. This experiment uses salicylic acid, acetic anhydride and phosphoric acid. The salicylic acid and aspirin may cause irritation to your skin or eyes, but are basically not hazardous. An excess of these can be disposed of in the sink or, if packaged, in the trash. If you spill some, wipe it up with a wet paper towel and throw the towel in the trash. Hoffman's father had severe arthritis but could not tolerate salicylic acid he was taking for pain relief. The name given for Hoffman's new compound was A-spirin. Apparently this comes from acetylation (A-), together with Spirin, part of the name for Meadow-sweet (Spiraea ulmaria), a plant rich in salicylates.
Your aspirin product as well as a commercial aspirin tablet will be compared to a standard 0.15% ferric-salicylate solution. In the presence of moisture, aspirin may decompose (hydrolysis) into salicylic acid and acetic acid. This reaction is the reverse of the synthesis reaction. The maximum allowable amount of free salicylic acid in an aspirin sample is 0.15% salicylic acid.
Aspirin, also known as acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), is a salicylate medication, often used to treat pain, fever, and inflammation. Aspirin also has an antiplatelet effect by stopping the binding together of platelets and preventing a patch over damaged walls of blood vessels. The main side effects of aspirin are gastrointestinal ulcers, stomach bleeding, and ringing in the ears, especially with higher doses. While daily aspirin can help prevent a clot-related stroke, it may increase risk of a bleeding stroke (hemorrhagic stroke). In children and adolescents, aspirin is not recommended for flu-like symptoms or viral illnesses, because of the risk of Reye's syndrome
1 Aspirin is the common name for the compound acetylsalicylic acid, widely used as a fever reducer and as a pain killer. Salicylic acid, whose name comes from Salix, the willow family of plants, was derived from willow bark extracts. In folk medicine, willow bark teas were used as headache remedies and other tonics. In the presence of moisture, aspirin may decompose (hydrolysis) into salicylic acid and acetic acid. This reaction is the reverse of the synthesis reaction. The maximum allowable amount of free salicylic acid in an aspirin sample is 0.15% salicylic acid.
It is irritating to the lining of the mouth, esophagus, and stomach, and can cause hemorrhaging of the stomach lining. In 1899, the Bayer Company in Germany patented a drug they called aspirin, which was a modification of salicylic acid. Salicylic acid contains a phenol group, and phenols are known to be irritating. Unfortunately, it is still irritating to the stomach and can cause hemorrhaging of the stomach walls. An aspirin tablet contains a small amount of aspirin (usually 300-400 mg) in a starch “binder” and sometimes contains other ingredients like caffeine and buffers.
This is not surprising when one considers the medicinal applications for aspirin. It is an effective analgesic (pain killer) that can reduce the mild pain of headache, toothache, neuralgia (never pain), muscle pain, and join pain (from arthritis and rheumatism). Make sure the reaction mixture is below the liquid level in the bath and that the water is boiling. Heat in the boiling water bath for not less than 20 minutes by which time all of the solid should have dissolved. 7. Obtain 50 mL of ice water in a 150 mL beaker.
You might be surprised to learn that stopping daily aspirin therapy can have a rebound effect that may increase your risk of heart attack. If you have had a heart attack or a stent placed in one or more of your heart arteries, stopping daily aspirin therapy can lead to a life-threatening heart attack. If you have been taking daily aspirin therapy and want to stop, it's important to talk to your doctor before making any changes. Your doctor will discuss what dose is right for you. Very low doses of aspirin —75 milligrams (mg), which is less than a standard baby aspirin — can be effective.
If you've had a heart attack or stroke, your doctor will likely recommend you take a daily aspirin unless you have a serious allergy or history of bleeding. If you have a high risk of having a first heart attack, your doctor might recommend aspirin after weighing the risks and benefits. Your doctor will discuss what dose is right for you. Very low doses of aspirin —75 milligrams (mg), which is less than a standard baby aspirin — can be effective.