Congenital hyperinsulinism is caused by mutations in genes that regulate the release (secretion) of insulin, which is produced by beta cells in the pancreas. Insulin clears excess sugar (in the form of glucose) from the bloodstream by passing glucose into cells to be used as energy. Mutations in at least nine genes have been found to cause congenital hyperinsulinism. Mutations in the ABCC8 gene are the most common known cause of the disorder. They account for this condition in approximately 40 percent of affected individuals.
Hypoglycemia is not a health condition like diabetes but actually is a condition that is connected with diabetes because it is a reaction from a continuing blood level decrease. They can both be severe risks. insulin shock is also another phrase for a hypoglycemic reaction to having a severe blood sugar level. Diabetes is a health problem weras hypoglycemia is a condition. Hypoglycemia is a result of not increasing blood sugar level even after realization of diabetes of because of other dietary needs such as completely cutting out carbohydrates from diet.
Gene mutations that cause congenital hyperinsulinism lead to over-secretion of insulin from beta cells. Normally, insulin is secreted in response to the amount of glucose in the bloodstream: when glucose levels rise, so does insulin secretion. However, in people with congenital hyperinsulinism, insulin is secreted from beta cells regardless of the amount of glucose present in the blood. Mutations in at least nine genes have been found to cause congenital hyperinsulinism. Mutations in the ABCC8 gene are the most common known cause of the disorder. They account for this condition in approximately 40 percent of affected individuals.
Hypoglycemia is a condition where the balance between the hormone insulin and sugar in body gets disturbed. Hormone insulin controls the quantity of sugar in body and do not allow the level of sugar to rise. But when a person suffers from Hypoglycemia, the condition acts as if there is more than enough insulin in the person’s blood and thus the blood sugar level of that person decreases. A recent study ran by the scientists of the University of Cambridge reported that a fatal form of hypoglycemia is genetic. Hypoglycemia means low level of sugar in blood. It causes lack of energy in human body to properly function. Scientists asserted that the cause of that disease lies somewhere in genetic mutation.
Hypoglycemia may be a condition by itself, or may be a complication of diabetes or another disorder. Hypoglycemia is most often seen as a complication of overdoing insulin in a person with diabetes, which is sometimes referred to as an insulin reaction. 
Rare and severe hypoglycemia could be genetic. By Dr Ananya Mandal, MD. According to researchers a rare and severe form of hypoglycemia (very low levels of sugar in the blood) could be genetic. The life-threatening condition depicts the fact that the body does not have enough energy to function. Scientists at the University of Cambridge say mutations in the AKT2 gene are to blame. 
When a child with diabetes has symptoms of hypoglycemia, the cause is usually an insulin reaction. For those who have symptoms of hypoglycemia and do not have diabetes, the underlying disorder is diagnosed by: Measuring blood sugar and multiple hormone levels while the child is experiencing the symptoms. However, consult your child's doctor for more specific information. Hypoglycemia may be a condition by itself, or may be a complication of diabetes or another disorder. Hypoglycemia is most often seen as a complication of overdoing insulin in a person with diabetes, which is sometimes referred to as an insulin reaction.
Hypoglycemia is the condition when your blood glucose (sugar) levels are too low. It happens to people with diabetes when they have a mismatch of medicine, food, and/or exercise. Non-diabetic hypoglycemia, a rare condition, is low blood glucose in people who do not have diabetes. 
2. take to much of the insulin. 3. continue to decrease blood sugar level. Hypoglycemia occurs when the level of sugar in the blood is to low and is commonly associated with diabetes. Diabetes is a health problem weras hypoglycemia is a condition. Hypoglycemia is a result of not increasing blood sugar level even after realization of diabetes of because of other dietary needs such as completely cutting out carbohydrates from diet. ** They are both dealing with a low blood sugar level