Personal jurisdiction rules can be a bit stickier when you file the suit in a state other than the one in which the defendant is a citizen or does business. You can't just sue someone in your home state if the defendant doesn't live in your state, has never been in your state, and doesn't do business in your state. Example: Debbie is a Texas citizen vacationing in Florida.
Because coastal State jurisdiction is limited, even in its territorial waters, the flag State's laws still apply aboard its ships. U.S. courts adjudicate crimes committed aboard ships flying U.S. flags, even if the crime was committed in foreign territorial waters.
For one thing, every ship is subject to the jurisdiction of the country whose flag it flies. So are its occupants. And you can't just pick the flag of a country whose laws are most favorable to you, either. The LOSC says there must be a genuine link between the ship and the state.
If you are suing someone from a different state, a court in your state may not have power or jurisdiction over that person. In that case, you might have to sue the defendant in his or her location, which will probably be more expensive and inconvenient for you. 9.
You cannot sue a person in a state where that person has absolutely no connection (e.g., doesn't live here, has never been here, has no business connection here, etc.). Think of it this way: If the defendant injured you somehow in Nevada, you couldn't sue him in California (unless he or she lived in California too).
In federal court you can sue a person in another state. This is because there is a type of jurisdiction particular to federal courts that is cdalled diversity jurisdiction. This refers to the fact that the federal court is consideered to be the neutral territory for suit between citizens of different states.
What you need to know before you sue someone. By WORLD Law Direct [January 12th, 2011]. Think hard before you rush off to the court clerk's office to file a lawsuit. The idea of victory may tempt you, but as you probably know, lawsuits can be expensive, time-consuming and emotionally draining.
Yes, they can, but the court must have jurisdiction over the defendant (the person you sue). In general, the court will have jurisdiction if the defendant has some connection to the state you are suing in such that it is reasonable for the defendant to be forced into court in that state.