“Private companies limited by guarantee” do not have shareholders. Their liability is limited to the money or capital that the principals contributed to the business. Charities often organize with this structure. “Private unlimited companies” don’t necessarily have a share capital, and its members do not have liability. The abbreviation LTD stands for “limited company.” The name is attached to businesses operating in the United Kingdom and many of its Commonwealth countries. The designation’s regulations vary between countries, but in the United Kingdom an LTD refers to a privately held 
A noncorporate business whose owners actively participate in the organization's management and are protected against personal liability for the organization's debts and obligations. The limited liability company (LLC) is a hybrid legal entity that has both the characteristics of a corporation and of a partnership. An LLC provides its owners with corporate-like protection against personal liability. It is, however, usually treated as a noncorporate business organization for tax purposes. State LLC statutes specifically provide that members of an LLC are not personally liable for the LLC's debts and obligations. This limited liability is similar to the liability protection for corporate shareholders, partners in a limited partnership, and partners in a limited liability
One of the primary advantages of an LLC is that its owners, called members, have limited liability, meaning that, under most circumstances, they are not personally liable for the debts and liabilities of the LLC. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In a limited company, the liability of members or subscribers of the company is limited to what they have invested or guaranteed to the company. Limited companies may be limited by shares or by guarantee. Has shareholders with limited liability and its shares may not be offered to the general public. Shareholders of private companies limited by shares are often bound to offer the shares to their fellow shareholders prior to selling them to a third party.
Difference Between LTD Partnership & LLC. A limited partnership and limited liability company are both types of business entities formed under state law. They are similar in structure due to the fact that limited liability companies, or LLCs, are designed to combine the benefits of both partnerships and corporations. For an LLC, all the owners -- called members -- receive this liability protection. However, the owners of a limited partnership are not treated the same in this regard. A limited partnership is required to have at least one general partner and one limited partner.
An important reason why business owners form an LLC or limited partnership is to protect their personal assets from business-related liabilities. For an LLC, all the owners -- called members -- receive this liability protection. However, the owners of a limited partnership are not treated the same in this regard. A limited partnership is required to have at least one general partner and one limited partner.
In a partnership, the limited partners have limited liability, while the general partner has unlimited liability. The limited liability feature protects the investor's or partner's personal assets from the risk of being seized to satisfy creditor claims in the event of the company's or partnership's insolvency. A type of liability that does not exceed the amount invested in a partnership or limited liability company. The limited liability feature is one of the biggest advantages of investing in publicly listed companies.
Filed under: What Does LLC Mean. LLC stands for Limited Liability Company, a type of organization that combines some of the corporation features and those of a partnership or sole proprietorship. Main features of a LLC make her a very accessible, expedient way to organize a small or medium business
A Limited Liability Company (LLC) is a hybrid business entity having certain characteristics of both a corporation and a partnership or sole proprietorship (depending on how many owners there are). An LLC, although a business entity, is a type of unincorporated association and is not a corporation. For limited liability companies in the United Kingdom, see Limited company. For a general discussion of entities with limited liability, see Corporation. A limited liability company (LLC) is the United States-specific form of a private l