A combination of calcium and vitamin D showed positive effects on cholesterol in a study of postmenopausal women. A new study has found postmenopausal women can improve their cholesterol with calcium and vitamin D supplements. The study was published in the journal Menopause. The idea of these supplements improving cholesterol has been up for debate
The study, Calcium/vitamin D supplementation, serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentrations, and cholesterol profiles in the Women's Health Initiative calcium/vitamin D randomized trial, will be published in the August 2014 print edition of Menopause. This analysis looked at the relationship between taking supplements and levels of vitamin D and cholesterol in some 600 of the women who had both their cholesterol levels and their vitamin D levels measured.
Vitamin D is not one more reason to consider cholesterol good for the body. The days when vitamin D is seen as a unifunctional vitamin reponsible simply for calcium metabolism and bone health are quickly disappearing into the annals of history. Other sources of vitamin D include fatty fish, some shellfish, egg yolks, and butter -- foods selected almost entirely from the list of those richest in cholesterol. The table below shows the overlap between foods' status as cholesterol-rich and vitamin D-rich.
The bad cholesterol levels of supplement users were between 4 and 5 points lower, while researchers also found supplement users with higher blood levels of vitamin D had high levels of good cholesterol and lower levels of triglycerides. A new study has found postmenopausal women can improve their cholesterol with calcium and vitamin D supplements. The study was published in the journal Menopause.
1 High triglyceride and cholesterol associated with low vitamin D in postmenopausal women – Dec 2014. 2  Omega-7 - in addition to Omega-3. 3  Gut flora which reduce cholesterol have been patented-Sept 2014. 4  Cholesterol reduced by Vitamin D plus Calcium – RCT March 2014. 
And much of that effect is tied to raising vitamin D levels, finds a new study from the Women's Health Initiative (WHI) just published online in Menopause, the journal of The North American Menopause Society (NAMS). Whether calcium or vitamin D can indeed improve cholesterol levels has been debated. And studies of women taking the combination could not separate the effects of calcium from those of vitamin D on cholesterol. This analysis looked at the relationship between taking supplements and levels of vitamin D and cholesterol in some 600 of the women who had both their cholesterol levels and their vitamin D levels measured.
Blood levels of vitamin D, fasting plasma triglycerides, HDL, and LDL cholesterol levels were assessed at the beginning and end of the trial. After two years, women who received the vitamin D and calcium supplements had a 38 percent increased mean vitamin D level compared to the placebo group. This soft, waxy substance is found not only in your bloodstream but also in every cell in your body, where it helps to produce cell membranes, hormones, vitamin D, and bile acids that help you digest fat. Cholesterol also helps in the formation of your memories and is vital for neurological function.
Vitamin D is necessary for your health. When you don’t get enough, you have a deficiency. This can lead brittle bones, as well as rickets in children. Some research has even tied it to depression, high blood pressure, cancer, type 2 diabetes, asthma, and high cholesterol. There is conflicting information when it comes to the link between cholesterol and vitamin D. Population studies show that people with lower vitamin D levels are more likely to have high cholesterol, although this does not prove a “cause and effect” relationship.
Vitamin D May Lower Cholesterol. Many observational studies have suggested that vitamin D may have benefits for heart health. Now a randomized trial has found that vitamin D appears to reduce levels of LDL, or “bad” cholesterol. Researchers randomly assigned 576 postmenopausal women to either a daily dose of 400 units of vitamin D and 1,000 milligrams of calcium, or a placebo. They followed them for three years
You can boost vitamin D levels by spending some time in the sun, eating foods that are fortified with vitamin D, or taking vitamin D supplements. If you have high cholesterol, talk to your doctor about strategies for lowering it. Generally, a combination of lifestyle changes and medication is the best bet. There is conflicting information when it comes to the link between cholesterol and vitamin D. Population studies show that people with lower vitamin D levels are more likely to have high cholesterol, although this does not prove a “cause and effect” relationship.