Root canal anatomy [edit]. Root canal anatomy consists of the pulp chamber and root canals. Both contain the dental pulp. The smaller branches, referred to as accessory canals, are most frequently found near the root end (apex), but may be encountered anywhere along the root length. Part of a naturally occurring space within a tooth, it consists of the pulp chamber (within the coronal part of the tooth), the main canal(s), and more intricate anatomical branches that may connect the root canals to each other or to the surface of the root. Contents.
Reason 1: “Root canals are painful”. You may have heard people say that root canal treatment is very painful, or you may have had such an experience yourself. The most common reason for painful root treatment is that the dentist finds it difficult to make your tooth numb because of an acute abscess. Some dentists will do root canal treatment which is too difficult for them. This is especially true for back teeth – these are usually much more difficult than front teeth. Front teeth are easier because: 1  they generally only have one canal (back teeth usually have 3 or more, and sometimes a canal can be missed).
Removing infected pulp during root canal. Endodontic therapy or root canal therapy is a sequence of treatment for the infected pulp of a tooth which results in the elimination of infection and the protection of the decontaminated tooth from future microbial invasion. 
4 - Root canals do not work. False. Although nothing can replace your tooth completely, a root canal that is done well, with an appropriate filling or crown, has a very high success rate. In about 85% of cases, treatments can last a lifetime. 1 - A root canal treatment is a painful procedure. False. A root canal does not cause pain. In fact, root canals are performed to relieve pain caused by inflammation of the pulp chamber (where the nerve is located) or a dental infection. The belief that a root canal hurts goes way back in the past.
Root canal anatomy in cross-section [edit]. Root canals presenting an oval cross-section are found in 50%-70% of root canals. In addition, canals with a tear-shaped cross section are common whenever a single root contains two canals (e.g., mesial roots of lower molars). Part of a naturally occurring space within a tooth, it consists of the pulp chamber (within the coronal part of the tooth), the main canal(s), and more intricate anatomical branches that may connect the root canals to each other or to the surface of the root. Contents.
A) Cleaning the tooth. Dentists use root canal treatment to resolve a wide range of nerve-related problems. For example, this same fix is used when a tooth's nerve tissue is: 1) Acutely inflamed, 2) In the process of dying, or 3) Completely necrotic (dead). This is nerve tissue that's been pulled out of a tooth's canal. The number of canals that a tooth has will affect you, the patient, in the following ways: 1  The cost of a tooth's treatment is typically based on the number of individual canals that it has. 2  The greater the number, the higher the cost.
Myth #1—Root canal treatment is painful. Truth —Root canal treatment doesn't cause pain, it relieves it. The perception of root canals being painful began decades ago but with modern technologies and anesthetics, root canal treatment today is no more uncomfortable than having a filling placed. 
Root Canal Procedure Costs. The cost of a root canal procedure may range from $500 to $1,000, and the cost of the post and core procedure to strengthen the tooth is approximately $260 to $360, not including the cost of a crown restoration. 