Unfortunately, one of the signs and symptoms of Purple Drank abuse is death, especially if the drug is mixed with others like alcohol or Ecstasy. The codeine in the cough syrup is a breathing depressant, as is alcohol.
Sizzurp – also known as purple drank, syrup and lean – is a mix of codeine-based prescription cough syrup, soda and, often, Jolly Ranchers candy. What does it do? The codeine, which is an opiate, produces a feeling of euphoria. The cough syrup also contains a drug called promethazine, which acts as a sedative.
lean is a mixture of promethazine with codeine sprite soda and jolly rancher or skittle candies lean is usually purple because of the promethazine with codeine cold cough medicine it sometimes goes by the name purple drank
Promethazine and Codeine cough syrup and sprite. The Promethazine is essentially what gives the lean affect. Many use jolly ranchers to enhance the flavor the beverage. Lean is lean as long as you have the right
Exacerbating the problem — and causing the drug to spike in popularity — is the way it’s being glamorized in songs and Internet videos. Also known as “purple drank,” “syrup” and “lean,” sizzurp typically includes Jolly Rancher candy for color and extra sweetness along with soda and prescription-strength cough syrup.
Attention, parents: Young people are using a drink with a funny-sounding name — “sizzurp” — to get high, and the consequences are anything but amusing. Doctors are warning that the drug, which is made by combining soda, candy and prescription cough syrup with codeine in it, can be deadly.
If it doesn't have promethazine w/ Codeine, it isn't real sizzurp. The mixed drink combination known as lean, is normally the color purple, due the added ingredient sizzurp, which is originally a dark purple syrup. There are other colors of sizzurp which can be added to create lean, but the purple is the true sizurp.
Purple drank is a slang term for a concoction which includes a prescription-strength cough syrup as a recreational drug. The mixture became popular in the hip hop community in the southern United States, originating in Houston.
Purple Drank is an addictive drink made up by the drug abuser himself (or herself). The primary intoxicating ingredient is a promethazine-codeine cough medication that is available only by prescription. It is mixed with a soda drink like Sprite or Mountain Dew.