Post-secondary Child and Youth Care Diploma or equivalent with a minimum of one year experience in providing support to youth or;... CharityVillage.com - 10 days ago-save job-more... 1  View all Aunt Leah's Place jobs-Lower Mainland jobs. A relevant post-secondary degree (Child and Youth Work, Education, Psychology, Social Work) or Child & Youth Care Diploma, plus 2 years of experience working...
$31,000. Average Youth Care Worker salaries for job postings nationwide are 45% lower than average salaries for all job postings nationwide.
With an average salary of $46,060 per year, child and family social workers earn slightly more than mental health counselors ($43,700) and substance abuse and behavioral disorder counselors ($41,090). However, they earn less than other professionals. Social workers who specialize in children and family welfare made a median salary of $42,120 in 2013, according to the BLS.
Child Residential Programs provide 24 hour care for children and adolescents who need this level of care due to... 12 hours ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all CHR jobs in Coventry, CT-Coventry jobs. 2  Salary Search: Child Care Worker salaries in Coventry, CT. Serves as a Child and Youth Program Assistant (CYPA) in one or more child and youth programs. Interacts with children and youth using approved child guidance...
CYC The relevant salary for the occupation child and youth care worker Experiential competencies Relates to an employees capacity to meet the job requirements in terms of the number of years appropriate experience after obtaining the required qualification. 4 3.1 Child and Youth Care Worker & Supervisory levels Child and Youth Care Worker Grade 1 Child & Youth Care Worker Grade 2 Child and Youth Care Team Leader Grade 1 Child and Youth Care Team Leader Grade 2 Child and Youth Care Supervisor Grade 1 Child and Youth Care Supervisor Grade 2 4. GRADES AND SALARY STRUCTURE NO.
Child and youth care is based on (but not restricted to) direct, day-to-day work with children, youth, and their families in their environment. Unlike many other professionals, most child and youth care practitioners do not operate in a single setting, or on an interview or sessional basis. Child and youth care is concerned with the totality of a child's functioning. The focus is on a young person living through a certain portion of the human life cycle rather than on one facet of functioning as is characteristic of some other human services disciplines.
Child and youth care as a profession is founded on a commitment to the well-being of children, youth, families and communities and emphasizes developmental practice, social competency, and the use of relationship in therapeutic interactions within the life-space. Learn more about the scope of child and youth care below. Child and youth care is concerned with the totality of a child's functioning. The focus is on a young person living through a certain portion of the human life cycle rather than on one facet of functioning as is characteristic of some other human services disciplines.
(United States). Average Child and Youth Workers in the United States make around $12.17 per hour. Pay ranges from $9.28 per hour on the low end to $17.61 on the high end. Child and Youth Workers survey participants are largely women, dominating at 67 percent. Job satisfaction is considered about average by most people in this profession.
Salary Outlook. Social workers who specialize in children and family welfare made a median salary of $42,120 in 2013, according to the BLS. The best-paid 10 percent in the field earned around $72,350, while the lowest-paid made approximately $27,420
Child and youth care workers work to improve the physical, emotional, intellectual and social development of vulnerable children, youth and families. Also Known As. 