One of the first, and best remembered of the rail barons was Cornelius Vanderbilt, also known as the Commodore. Vanderbilt started out his career in the steamboat business in the 1820s, right around the time the railroad industry was taking off. The tycoons, also called barons, were the early pioneers of the railroad industry amassing or overseeing the construction of large Class I railroads through the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
1 2. 2  Railroad barons were powerful people who controlled the nation’s rail traffic. 3  Railroads were used for carrying ore, coal and timber to factories. 1 Railroad barons were powerful people who controlled the nation’s rail traffic. 2  Railroads were used for carrying ore, coal and timber to factories. 3  3
Robber baron is a derogatory term of social criticism originally applied to certain wealthy and powerful 19th-century American businessmen. The term appeared as early as the August 1870 issue of The Atlantic Monthly magazine. The term combines the sense of criminal (robber) and illegitimate aristocracy (a baron is an illegitimate role in a republic).
Best Answer: A business magnate, sometimes referred to as a mogul, tycoon, baron, or industrialist, is a person who has reached a prominent place in a particular industry (or set of industries) and whose wealth has been derived primarily therefrom. 
Rail Baron is played on a map of the United States on which the routes of 28 historic railroads, such as the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad and the Southern Pacific Railroad have been marked. The table below lists these 28 railroads, their cost within the Rail Baron game, their real-life years of operation and eventual corporate outcome, and their current status as of 2009.
It is easy to see the similarities to what would become Rail Baron. The edge of the board is encircled with heralds/logos of assorted RRs... but, strangely, none of these RRs are used during game play. A 1950s era Rand-McNally map of US railroads was encircled by heralds; perhaps it was the inspiration for this design. The rules of BOXCARS vary from those of Rail Baron in several ways.
Rail Baron is a board game for 3 to 6 players. It was one of the first board games with a railroad theme, and helped establish a sub category known as train games. Rail Baron was initially published in the 1970s under the name Boxcars by the original designers R.S. The table below lists these 28 railroads, their cost within the Rail Baron game, their real-life years of operation and eventual corporate outcome, and their current status as of 2009.
1 Her railroad's founder, Nathaniel Taggart, is the idealized version of the stereotypical Railroad Baron; Ayn Rand probably modeled him on James J. Hill. 1 Dagny Taggart of Atlas Shrugged is pretty much the inverse of every stereotype of the Railroad Baron. 2  Her railroad's founder, Nathaniel Taggart, is the idealized version of the stereotypical Railroad Baron; Ayn Rand probably modeled him on James J. Hill. 3  Dagny's brother, James Taggart, almost fits this trope.
This is an unofficial FAQ for Rail Baron, Avalon Hill's classic railroad boardgame. As with most board games, the printed rules for Rail Baron contain several gray areas. The rule interpretations found below are those used during the annual World Boardgaming Championships, which is host to the largest Rail Baron tournament anywhere.