Established by the United Nations General Assembly on December 11, 1946 and originally known as the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF), the UN Children's Fund has employed three approaches in discharging its mandate.*. 
In 1953, UNICEF became a permanent part of the United Nations System and its name was shortened from the original United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund but it has continued to be known by the popular acronym based on this previous title. Most of UNICEF's work is in the field, with staff in over 190 countries and territories. More than 200 country offices carry out UNICEF's mission through a program developed with host governments. Seventeen regional offices provide technical assistance to country offices as needed.
The United Nations Children's Fund (or UNICEF) was created by the United Nations General Assembly on December 11, 1946 to provide emergency food and healthcare to children in … countries that had been devastated by World War II. It is an international organization that was founded on 11 December 1946 with the name of United Nations International Childre … n's Emergency Fund. UNICEF was created to provide food, clothing, and health care for those who need it. UNICEF provides many types of assistance and help to children and mothers
It is unknown which individual founded UNICEF (United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund), the credit is all given to United Nations. It is an international organization that was founded on 11 December 1946 with the name of United Nations International Childre … n's Emergency Fund. UNICEF was created to provide food, clothing, and health care for those who need it. UNICEF provides many types of assistance and help to children and mother
UNICEF means The United Nations Children's Fund. It is an international organization that was founded on 11 December 1946 with the name of United Nations International Childre … n's Emergency Fund. UNICEF was created to provide food, clothing, and health care for those who need it. UNICEF provides many types of assistance and help to children and mothers
In 1953, UNICEF became a permanent part of the UN System and its name was shortened from the original United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund but it has continued to be known by the popular acronym based on this old name. It is an international organization that was founded on 11 December 1946 with the name of United Nations International Childre … n's Emergency Fund.
UNICEF was established on 11 December 1946 by the United Nations to meet the emergency needs of children in post-war Europe and China. Its full name was the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund. In 1950, its mandate was broadened to address the long-term needs of children and women in developing countries everywhere. UNICEF became a permanent part of the United Nations system in 1953, when its name was shortened to the United Nations Children's Fund. However, UNICEF retained its original acronym.
It is one of the members of the United Nations Development Group and its Executive Committee. UNICEF was created by the United Nations General Assembly on December 11, 1946, to provide emergency food and healthcare to children in countries that had been devastated by World War II. Most of UNICEF's work is in the field, with staff in over 190 countries and territories. More than 200 country offices carry out UNICEF's mission through a program developed with host governments. Seventeen regional offices provide technical assistance to country offices as needed.
UNICEF means The United Nations Children's Fund. It is an international organization that was founded on 11 December 1946 with the name of United Nations International Childre … n's Emergency Fund. UNICEF was created to provide food, clothing, and health care for those who need it