The different meanings of the name Marjorie are: 1  English meaning: Derived from Margaret, an English name meaning Pearl Also the newer (and now more popular) meaning arose from its sound*alike similarity to marjoram, the name of an aromatic herb. 2  Greek meaning: Pearl. 3  French meaning: As the pearl. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Marjorie and its name origin or of any other name in our database. Also note the spelling and the pronunciation of the name Marjorie and check the initials of the name with your last name to discover how it looks and sounds.
Greek Meaning: The name Marjorie is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Marjorie is: Pearl. American Meaning: The name Marjorie is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Marjorie is: Pearl. Persian Meaning: The name Marjorie is a Persian baby name. In Persian the meaning of the name Marjorie is: Child of light. Famous Bearer: Margaret Thatcher, former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.
Greek name. In Greek, the name Marjorie means-pearl.The name Marjorie originated as an Greek name. The name Marjorie is most often used as a girl name or female name. Greek Name Meaning-pearl. Origin-Greece. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special!
Marjorie is largely used in the English and Scottish languages. Its origin is Old Greek, Latin, and Hebrew. Latin origin, English use: The name first developed from Margerie (Middle English) or Margery (Middle English), the medieval English form of Margaret. The name is also taken to derive from 'marjoram', the name of the aromatic herb, since at least the 17th century.
Usage: Marjorie is a very popular first name. It is more often used as a girl (female) name. People having the name Marjorie are in general originating from Belgium, France, Greece, United Kingdom, United States of America. For another variant of the name Marjorie across the world, see Margery.
Marjorie /mar-jor-ie/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced MAR-jor-ee. It is of English, French and Greek origin, and the meaning of Marjorie is pearl. Variant of the French Margery, from Margaret (Greek). Brought to England in the 12th century as Margery, and used steadily until a late 19th-century revival. Literary: The name was made famous by Herman Wouk's Marjorie Morningstar. See also Marjo.
Marjorie is a female given name derived from Margaret, which means pearl. It can also be spelled as Margery or Marjory. Marjorie is a medieval variant of Margery, influenced by the name of the herb marjoram. It came into English from the Old French, from the Latin margarita (pearl). After the Middle Ages this name was rare, but it was revived at the end of the 19th century. 
5 5. The meaning of Marjorie is  Pearl . Its origin is  Variant of the English name Margery . This name is mostly being used as a girls name. Last year it ranked 910th in the U.S. Social Security Administration list of most popular baby girl names. Marjorie is a spelling of the medieval name Margery.