If this is the case just let the scabs fall off on their own and be mindful not to pull them off prematurely, as this could result in loss of ink. The majority of your tattoos healing should be over in 2 weeks, but it does take up to 4 weeks for a tattoo to be fully healed. Things to avoid during the tattoo healing process: -Try not to sleep on your tattoo. Example, if the tattoo is on your back, sleep on your stomach. 
A tattoo normally takes anywhere from 7 to 14 days to look fully healed, depending on the type, style, size and placement. The truth is that it can really take up to a month for a tattoo to be fully healed below the surface of the skin and for your body’s natural healing abilities to lock the ink in completely. 
I plan on getting a tattoo in a few months, if I take care of it how about how long will it take to heal. Does it matter where I get the tattoo, cause I&#39;m getting it on the back of my neck. Source(s): long tattoo heal: https://biturl.im/RwfNl. Clarence · 2 months ago. Thumbs up. I plan on getting a tattoo in a few months, if I take care of it how about how long will it take to heal. Does it matter where I get the tattoo, cause I'
Best Answer: Like everyone said, depends on your body and how it heals and your immune system, but in general, the roughest part is 1 to 2 weeks, but it really isn't fully healed for a while after that. The place on your body matters for two reasons-different parts can have a harder time healing. I plan on getting a tattoo in a few months, if I take care of it how about how long will it take to heal. Does it matter where I get the tattoo, cause I'm getting it on the back of my neck.
In general most tattoos heal in about 2 weeks. This is the initial healing time as this is only the outside of the tattoo. It takes a few more weeks for it to fully heal underneath. but placement does effect healing too. talk talk's revenge · 8 years ago. I plan on getting a tattoo in a few months, if I take care of it how about how long will it take to heal. Does it matter where I get the tattoo, cause I'm getting it on the back of my neck.
For this reason, it is best to keep your tattoo covered and away from the sun for at least 3 to 4 weeks, until the initial healing is complete. 1  After that, you will still need to protect your tattoo by wearing a minimum of SPF 30. Once you have thoroughly washed the tattoo, you should gently pat it dry with a little paper towel. Do not rub the tattoo, as this may cause irritation. Once the excess moisture has been removed, you should leave the tattoo uncovered for 20 minutes to an hour.
1 The initial healing of the tattoo will take up to two weeks. 2  During this time, you can expect the tattoo to start peeling or flaking, in a similar way to sunburn. 3  Some colored skin may come away as the tattoo peels, but this is completely normal. Once you have thoroughly washed the tattoo, you should gently pat it dry with a little paper towel. Do not rub the tattoo, as this may cause irritation. Once the excess moisture has been removed, you should leave the tattoo uncovered for 20 minutes to an hour.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Tattoos take as long as your body requires. Anywhere from 2 or 3 weeks to 2 months depending on how much irritation it gets, where it is, how you take care of it, etc. If you have to wear boots all day getting a tattoo on your foot is not the best idea. You need to be able to leave it clear, let it heal and not be rubbed against and sweated on all the time. 
Although people tend to heal at different rates, the first healing stage of a tattoo usually lasts about one week as long as an infection doesn't set in. If you find the pain is more than you expected, you can take an over-the-counter pain reliever. Overall, the healing stages of tattoos stretch out over a three to four week period, and taking special care of your tat during this time is essential to preserve the wonderful work your tattoo artist has created.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A tattoo will surface heal in approx. one week, varying from person to person, but the healing process beneath will take 1-3 months, during which time strong sunlight and extremes of temperature should be avoided. Make sure you clean your tattoo and use an oniment such as Savlon whilst it's still healing. I got a tattoo of a charm bracelet round my ankle 4 weeks ago tomorrow and it never really seemed to scab over or get itchy or any of the problems you expect with a healing tattoo but it did go a bit dry looking, looked a bit like when you peel after sunburn. It is still like that in bits and in a couple of bits...