Sports injuries are among the most common causes of a broken collarbone. Other frequent causes are falls and car, motorcycle or bike accidents. The time for a broken collarbone to fully heal depends on the severity of the injury. In children, complete healing may take as little as three to six weeks. In adults, six to 16 weeks or more are often necessary for a collarbone to heal solidly.
In adults, it usually takes about six to eight weeks for a broken collarbone to heal, although it can take longer. In children, it usually takes about three to six weeks to heal. However, it will take at least the same period again to restore full strength to your shoulder.
The younger you are when you break your clavicle, the less time it takes for the fracture to heal. Children will heal a broken bone in 3 to 4 weeks, teenagers will need 6 to 8 … weeks before the broken clavicle completely heals, and adults may take up to four months. RESOURCE: http://www.shouldersolutions.com/ac_4.php.
A broken collarbone, or fractured clavicle, is a common injury that usually happens after a fall onto the shoulder. It takes about six to eight weeks to heal in adults and three to six weeks in children. The collarbone, or clavicle, is a long slender bone that runs from the breastbone to each of the shoulders.
The younger you are when you break your clavicle, the less time it takes for the fracture to heal. Children will heal a broken bone in 3 to 4 weeks, teenagers will need 6 to 8 … weeks before the broken clavicle completely heals, and adults may take up to four months.
Follow-up with an orthopedist (bone doctor) is recommended for all clavicle fractures. How long your collarbone will take to heal depends on: 1  Where the break in the bone is (in middle or at the end of the bone). 2  If the bones are aligned. 3  Your age. 4  Children may heal in 3 to 6 weeks. 5  Adults may need up to 12 weeks.
A broken collarbone, or fractured clavicle, is a common injury. It usually happens after a fall or a blow to the shoulder. It takes about six to eight weeks to heal in adults, and three to six weeks in children. The collarbone, or clavicle, is a long slender bone that runs from the breastbone to each of the shoulders.
How long does it take to recover from a collarbone fracture? Clavicle fractures should heal completely within 12 weeks. but Usually with a broken collarbone the pain and swelling are severe. How long it takes the fracture to heal depends upon many factors Some fractures can take six to nine months to heal.