What you need. To check in you’ll need your ticket and your passport or identity card. If you’re travelling with children they’ll each need their own passport, even babies. You don’t need to check in your luggage as long as you’re within your allowance and are able to carry it yourself. How to check in. When you arrive at the check-in barriers simply scan the code on your paper ticket or on your mobile. If you have any problems find the nearest member of staff and ask for help.
anon Jan 14, 2013 19:26. I travel a lot on Eurostar but I've never been aware of anyone checking the name on my ticket against my passport. Of course, that doesn't mean that it doesn't happen. Also, looking on ebay and other sites it's clear that there is a market in unused tickets, so presumably it is possible. 
Tickets and Schedules. The best way to search and buy Eurostar tickets is directly from www.eurostar.com. The advantage of buying tickets directly from Eurostar.com is that they offer free home delivery of tickets, whereas resellers such as Rail Europe may charge a fee depending on your whereabouts. When taking a Eurostar train from Paris to London, it’s common for the Eurostar to stop at Ebbsfleet (and sometimes Ashford) station 15 minutes before arrival at London St. Pancras / King’s Cross.
Eurostar is a high-speed railway service connecting London with Paris and Brussels. All its trains traverse the Channel Tunnel between the United Kingdom and France, owned and operated separately by Eurotunnel. 
About. Eurostar is the High speed train that has revolutionised travel between London and Europe since 1994. Operating at 300km/h, it's just over 2 hours from the heart of Paris or from the centre of Brussels to St Pancras International in Central London via Eurostar. With a choice of frequent departures, fast check in and city centre to city centre locations, Eurostar is the ultimate European travel experience. This high-speed railway service connects London with Paris and Brussels. My husband and I rode the Eurostar when we were travelling from London to Paris. To check in, you obviously need your ticket (which you can print at home or get from the station) and your passport or ID card. We originally flew to London and were making a journey all the way to southern Italy
It is possible to book 'through tickets' between many locations in the UK and locations in France, Belgium, Netherlands, Germany and Switzerland-see Through tickets for more information. Taking the Eurostar has many advantages over flying between London and Paris, and London and Brussels. Not only does it offer-in most cases-shorter travel times, but Eurostar trains are also more likely than planes to arrive at their destination on schedule.
This is a detailed guide of how to buy Eurostar tickets and how to take the Eurostar high speed train from Paris to London. When taking a Eurostar train from Paris to London, it’s common for the Eurostar to stop at Ebbsfleet (and sometimes Ashford) station 15 minutes before arrival at London St. Pancras / King’s Cross.
From London there is a direct Eurostar service to Disneyland Paris (5 days a week, daily during UK school holidays), plus trains to Avignon in the south of France (every Saturday, summer only) and Eurostar 'ski trains' twice per week to the French Alps (winter only). Taking the Eurostar has many advantages over flying between London and Paris, and London and Brussels. Not only does it offer-in most cases-shorter travel times, but Eurostar trains are also more likely than planes to arrive at their destination on schedule.