Most PVCs occur infrequently and are benign. Frequent PVCs may increase the risk of developing other, more serious cardiac arrhythmias. Individuals with frequent PVCs who have underlying heart disease, structural abnormalities in the heart or have had a previous heart attack have a higher risk of death. A premature ventricular contraction (PVC) is a too-early heartbeat that originates in the ventricles and disrupts the heart’s normal rhythm. The pattern is a normal beat, an extra beat (the PVC), a slight pause, then a stronger-than-normal beat
Ventricular Arrhythmias. Premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) are the most common cause of irregular heart rhythms. The heartbeat is created by an electrical signal that originates in an area of specialized cells in the heart’s upper right chamber, the right atrium. A premature ventricular contraction (PVC) is a too-early heartbeat that originates in the ventricles and disrupts the heart’s normal rhythm. The pattern is a normal beat, an extra beat (the PVC), a slight pause, then a stronger-than-normal beat
For patients with heart disease who have frequent PVCs or increased PVCs during exercise, angioplasty or bypass surgery may be appropriate. Doctors vary in quality due to differences in training and experience; hospitals differ in the number of services available. A premature ventricular contraction (PVC) is a too-early heartbeat that originates in the ventricles and disrupts the heart’s normal rhythm. The pattern is a normal beat, an extra beat (the PVC), a slight pause, then a stronger-than-normal beat
Premature Ventricular Contractions. Description. Premature ventricular contractions (PVC s) are beats which are initiated in the ventricles or lower chambers of the heart, prematurely. As opposed to PAC s, when the SA node (the natural pacemaker of the heart) gets interrupted, PVC s do not interrupt the SA node. However, with a PVC the ventricles contract, which normally causes the impulse from the atria to be blocked from reaching the ventricles. PVC s are one of the two most common heart rhythm abnormalities, the other being PACs (premature atrial contractions).
Background: Premature ventricular complexes, or PVCs, are a common clinical problem. While patients may be asymptomatic, typically these PVCs cause sensations of skipping, heart pounding, and possibly chest pain, shortness of breath or dizziness. Making the diagnosis:
Premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) are extra, abnormal heartbeats that begin in one of your heart's two lower pumping chambers (ventricles). These extra beats disrupt your regular heart rhythm, sometimes causing you to feel a flip-flop or skipped beat in your chest. 
Although there are many signs and symptoms associated with PVCs, PVCs may have no symptoms at all. An isolated PVC is hard to catch without the use of a Holter monitor. PVCs may be perceived as a skipped heart beat, a strong beat, or a feeling of suction in the chest. They may also cause chest pain, a faint feeling, fatigue, or hyperventilation after exercise. Several PVCs in a row becomes a form of ventricular tachycardia (VT), which is a potentially fatal abnormal heart rhythm. Premature ventricular contractions can occur in a healthy person of any age, but are more prevalent in the elderly and in men. They frequently occur spontaneously with no known cause. Heart rate turbulence (HRT) is a phenomenon representing the return to equilibrium of the heart rate after a PVC.
Premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) are heartbeats that occur earlier than they should. These early beats briefly interrupt the heart 's rhythm. A PVC may feel like a skipped heartbeat or a flutter. PVCs are the most common type of change in heart rhythm. They are common in children and teens as well as in adults.
Premature ventricular contractions (PVCs) are premature heartbeats originating from the ventricles of the heart. Premature ventricular contractions are premature because they occur before the regular heartbeat. Normal function of the heart. The heart has four chambers. The upper two chambers are the atria, and the lower two chambers are the ventricles. 1  The atria deliver blood to the ventricles, and the ventricles deliver blood to the lungs and to the rest of the body.