Summary Information: Papillae. Papillae: Papillae are small bumps located on the surface of the tongue. Some types of papillae contain taste buds. There are four types of papillae: filiform papillae, fungiform papillae, circumvallate papillae, and foliate papillae. Conditions that afflict papillae include infection, trauma, lacerations, and tongue lesions.
Loss of the interdental papilla adjacent to a single tooth implant or an edentulous site where implant placement is planned can be considered one of the greatest treatment challenges facing the interdisciplinary dental team. 1 Discuss why loss of the interdental papilla adjacent to a single tooth implant or an edentulous site can be considered one of the greatest treatment challenges. 2  Identify the primary points to remember in treating interdental recession.
Taste buds are found primarily in the tongue papillae. The tongue contains 4 types of papillae, the most common type, filiform, are thin and wire shaped and do not contain taste buds. On the dorsal, anterior border of the tongue are mushroom shaped papillae, fungiform, these have taste buds located near the middle or in a cleft of the papillae. The foliate papillae are leaf shaped with taste buds on the side of the papillae, and these are along the border. 
Loss of the interdental papilla adjacent to a single tooth implant or an edentulous site where implant placement is planned can be considered one of the greatest treatment challenges facing the interdisciplinary dental team. This type of recession defect is due to the loss of the interproximal periodontal attachment apparatus. Treatment planning and its sequencing frequently require not only restorative and periodontal care, but also orthodontic therapy.
Abstract. Interdental recession or loss of the interdental papilla is one of the greatest challenges facing the dental team. This type of recession defect is due to the loss of the interproximal periodontal attachment apparatus. Treatment planning and its sequencing frequently require not only restorative and periodontal care, but also orthodontic therapy.
Interdental recession or loss of the interdental papilla is one of the greatest challenges facing the dental team. This type of recession defect is due to the loss of the interproximal periodontal attachment apparatus. 1 Discuss why loss of the interdental papilla adjacent to a single tooth implant or an edentulous site can be considered one of the greatest treatment challenges. 2  Identify the primary points to remember in treating interdental recession.
There are four types of lingual papillae on the human tongue: circumvallate papillae (vallate papillae), fungiform papillae, filiform papillae and foliate papillae. All except the filiform papillae are associated with taste buds. They are located on the sides at the back of the tongue, just in front of the palatoglossal arch of the fauces, There are four or five vertical folds, and their size and shape is variable. The foliate papillae appear as a series of red colored, leaf–like ridges of mucosa.
With time, baby boomers begin to develop the “dark triangle” between their teeth. This “dark triangle” is actually a loss of the gum papilla between the teeth. The gum between the teeth is missing. The reason the dark spaces between the teeth occur is because of age, or tooth pick use. This condition is known as loss of papilla. The loss of the dental papilla can be a real health concern because every time you eat food lodges in the area. Graphing the papilla to fill the gap is an incredibly difficult procedure that very few doctors can do successfully.
Lingual papillae (singular papilla) are the small, nipple or hair–like structures on the upper surface of the tongue that give the tongue its characteristic rough texture. They are located on the sides at the back of the tongue, just in front of the palatoglossal arch of the fauces, There are four or five vertical folds, and their size and shape is variable. The foliate papillae appear as a series of red colored, leaf–like ridges of mucosa.
One of the major reasons interdental papilla loss occurs on a natural tooth adjacent to a single implant is that the proximal placement is too close, so the horizontal and vertical biologic width formation ultimately compromises the periodontal attachment level on the adjacent tooth. This type of recession defect is due to the loss of the interproximal periodontal attachment apparatus. Treatment planning and its sequencing frequently require not only restorative and periodontal care, but also orthodontic therapy.