Description. An FFI that has registered to be FATCA compliant and that has been issued a global intermediary identification number (GIIN) will appear on a published FFI List. Withholding agents may rely on an FFI’s claim of FATCA status based on checking the payee's GIIN against the published FFI List. 
Under The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA), foreign financial institutions (FFI) are required to register with the IRS and report any US account holders, or face a potential 30% withholding tax from US sourced payments. 1 The first six numbers will be alphanumeric and is the FATCA ID. 2  The next five numbers will be alphanumeric and identify the Financial Institution Type. 3  The next two numbers are alpha only and identify the Status Code for the FFI. 4  The last three numbers are only numeric and identify the Country Code.
The way that withholding agents and the IRS can identify FFIs that have registered is via the Global Intermediary Identification Number (GIIN) that the IRS issues to the FFI. In this way, a withholding agent may search the database of FFIs to see if they have registered, and if they have been given a GIIN. 1 The first six numbers will be alphanumeric and is the FATCA ID. 2  The next five numbers will be alphanumeric and identify the Financial Institution Type. 3  The next two numbers are alpha only and identify the Status Code for the FFI. 4  The last three numbers are only numeric and identify the Country Code.
...the identification number that is assigned to a participating FFI or registered deemed-compliant FFI. The term GIIN or Global Intermeidary Identification Number also includes the identification number assigned to a reporting Model 1 FFI for purposes of identifying such entity to withholding agents. Decoding a GIIN... In short, a GIIN is a 19-character number that uniquely identifies an entity as having registered with the IRS for purposes of FATCA. However, the number provides much more information than it may appear at first glance.
GIIN Composition GIIN means a Global Intermediary Identification Number assigned to a PFFI or Registered Deemed Compliant FFI. A separate GIIN will be issued to the FI to identify each jurisdiction, including the FI’s jurisdiction of residence, in which the FI maintains a branch that is not treated as a Limited Branch. It is anticipated that the IRS FFI list will be updated on a monthly basis to add or remove FIs (or their branches). The FATCA ID is not the same as the GIIN. • The Financial Institution Type can be Single, Lead of an Expanded Affiliated Group, Member (not Lead) of an Expanded Affiliated Group, or Sponsoring Entity. The Financial Institution type is provided by the Financial Institution when creating its FATCA account.
The IRS will begin issuing a Global Intermediary Identification Number (GIIN) to participating FFIs and deemed-compliant FFIs by October 15, 2013. FFIs will use their GIINs to satisfy reporting requirements and to identify their status to withholding agents. 
The GIIN may be used by an FI to identify itself to withholding agents and tax administrations for FATCA reporting. A GIIN will be issued to only those FIs that are not Limited FFIs, Limited Branches, or U.S. branches of an FFI, and will be issued after an FI’s FATCA Registration is submitted and approved. Format: XXXXXX.XXXXX.XX.XXX The GIIN is a 19-character identification number that is a composite of several other identifiers. The FATCA ID is not the same as the GIIN. • The Financial Institution Type can be Single, Lead of an Expanded Affiliated Group, Member (not Lead) of an Expanded Affiliated Group, or Sponsoring Entity. The Financial Institution type is provided by the Financial Institution when creating its FATCA account.
Any Foreign Financial Institution (FFI) that cannot take advantage of a sponsoring route (trustee documented trust etc) should instead apply for a Global Intermediary Identification Number (GIIN) before the end of the year. 
By admin ·. · FFI Registration Leave a comment. Like Social Security or Employer Identification Numbers, Global Intermediary Identification Numbers (“GIINs”) are assigned to foreign financial institutions and sponsoring entities for purposes of identifying their registration with the IRS under FATCA. 
The GIIN or Global Intermediary Identifier Number is a 19-character identification number issued by the IRS to foreign financial institutions (FFIs) as part of the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA). 