How long you can survive without water also depends on how much total body water content you have. Total body water varies by age, gender and body fat. Men's bodies are composed of about 60 percent water, and women's bodies are composed of about 55 percent. Babies' bodies are composed of about 78 percent water.
The human body cannot survive without food and water for long periods of time. In fact, according to SurvivalTopics.com, the longest a person can go without water is 10 days--without food, it's four to six weeks. However, due to certain other variables, these numbers can vary. Second to oxygen, water is the most important compound that the human body needs for survival.
A person can survive only three to five days without water, in some cases people have survived for an average of one week. It is not recommended that anyone try this at home. Once the body is deprived of fluids the cells and organs in the body begin to deteriorate.
You can live 3 minutes without air, though we don't recommend trying. In a harsh environment — it's snowing, say — you have 3 hours to survive without shelter. After 3 days, you need water or you'll perish. You can make it 3 weeks without food, though we promise you that won't be fun. Despite this possibly helpful rule, some people have survived 8 to 10 days without water.
We can't live on air and sunshine alone. The human body needs food and water to survive. A human can go for more than three weeks without food (Mahatma Gandhi survived 21 days of complete starvation), but water is a different story. At least 60% of the adult body is made of it and every living cell in the body needs it to keep functioning.
Save. The human body cannot survive without food and water for long periods of time. In fact, according to SurvivalTopics.com, the longest a person can go without water is 10 days--without food, it's four to six weeks. However, due to certain other variables, these numbers can vary. Second to oxygen, water is the most important compound that the human body needs for survival.