Anthroposophical medicine (AM), or anthroposophically extended medicine, is a system of healing based on the spiritual science that was developed by Rudolph Steiner. Anthroposophical medicine can be used to treat any health condition. It is particularly recommended for preventive care, infections, inflammatory conditions such as arthritis, and the treatment of cancer and chronic degenerative diseases associated with aging.
Anthroposophic Medicine an alternative, holistic approach to healthcare. Anthroposophic medicine is a form of alternative medicine that was founded in the 1920's by Rudolph Steiner (1861-1925) based on Steiner's medical knowledge and philosophy. With a holistic approach, it combines homeopathic medicine and other techniques with traditional western medicine. 
Devised in the 1920s by Rudolf Steiner (1861–1925) in conjunction with Ita Wegman (1876–1943), anthroposophical medicine is based on occult notions and draws on Steiner's spiritual philosophy, which he called anthroposophy. For example, it claims that the heart does not pump blood but that blood propels itself along. Anthroposophic medicine also proposes that a patient's past lives may influence their illness and that the course of an illness is subject to karmic destiny.
Anthroposophical Medicine is a holistic extension of conventional medicine and is used in conjunction with it. It employs modern diagnostic and therapeutic methods and complements these with medicines, artistic therapies, counselling and physical therapies. 
Anthroposophic medicine views health as a matter of mind-body-spirit balance. It is centered on the idea that humans are not independent organisms but, instead, beings composed of the interactions of physical body, inner life body, soul (mind and emotions), and spiritual ego (self-awareness). 1 Healthy nutrition and lifestyle are the basic foundation for successful treatment in anthroposophic medicine. 2  Good health is dependent on the harmonious interaction and balance between the following three systems that make up the human being: 3  The Nerve-Sense System (centered in the head and spinal column).
For many people, anthroposophic medicine is a difficult concept. But in fact, it is quite easy to explain. It is an integrative form of medicine, derived from two sources—material scientific medicine with its methods and results, on the one hand, and spiritual scientific findings on the other. Neither one may be taken in isolation. An individual is not simply a body.
The first steps towards an anthroposophic approach to medicine were made before 1920, when homeopathic physicians and pharmacists began working with Rudolf Steiner, who recommended new medicinal substances as well as specific methods for preparation along with an anthroposophic concept of man. For example, it claims that the heart does not pump blood but that blood propels itself along. Anthroposophic medicine also proposes that a patient's past lives may influence their illness and that the course of an illness is subject to karmic destiny.
Anthroposophic Medicine (Anthropos = human being: Sophia = wisdom) is a form of complementary medicine developed by Rudolf Steiner that views the entire human being. The anthroposophical approach to medicine adds spiritual insight to diagnosis and healing. Many other therapeutic disciplines that have developed within the approach include homeopathic and herbal remedies, homecare, nursing, artistic therapy, music therapy, hydrotherapy, curative eurythmy (movement), and massage. Medicines used are taken from the realms of plants, animals, and minerals.
Anthroposophic Medicine (Anthropos = human being: Sophia = wisdom) is a form of complementary medicine developed by Rudolf Steiner that views the entire human being (mind/body/spirit) in its relationship to the universe in treating illness. 
Anthroposophic medicine (AM) is medicine that has been infused with the teachings of Rudolf Steiner. Chief among these teachings is that the body is not an independent material organism and that good health depends on a harmonious relationship between the physical body, spirit or vital force, the soul, and the ego. ...ordinary pharmaceutical products used in medicine, anthroposophic medicine uses special medicines which are produced according to the anthroposophic understanding of the human being and its connection to nature.