Clostridium perfringens (C. perfringens) is one of the most common causes of food poisoning in the United States. Learn more on ways to prevent illness from this germ. Clostridium perfringens (C. perfringens) is a bacterium that is often found on raw meat and poultry, and is one of the most common causes of foodborne illness in the United States. It is estimated to cause nearly 1 million cases of foodborne illness (sometimes called food poisoning) each year. 
Cell structure and metabolism. Clostridium perfringens are non-motile rod-shaped Gram-positive bacteria. It possesses the typical characteristics of Gram-positive bacteria, such as a protective thick cell wall, which is made up of peptidoglycan, surrounding an inner membrane. Clostridium perfringens is a rod-shaped Gram-positive bacterium, which is a mesophile that has an optimal growing temperature of 37 C [2]. It is a non-motile pathogen that produces endospores.
Clostridium perfringens (formerly known as C. welchii, or Bacillus welchii) is a Gram-positive, rod-shaped, anaerobic, spore-forming bacterium of the genus Clostridium. It has the shortest reported generation time of any organism at 6.3 minutes in thioglycollate medium. C. perfringens is the third most common cause of food poisoning in the United Kingdom and the United States though it can sometimes be ingested and cause no harm.
C. perfringens is everpresent in nature and can be found as a normal component of decaying vegetation, marine sediment, the intestinal tract of humans and other vertebrates, insects, and soil. It has the shortest reported generation time of any organism at 6.3 minutes in thioglycollate medium. C. perfringens is the third most common cause of food poisoning in the United Kingdom and the United States though it can sometimes be ingested and cause no harm.
The bacteria Clostridium perfringens is one of the leading causes of foodborne gastroenteritis in the United States. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates, as many as one million individuals are affected by C. perfringens each year (Grass et al. 2013; Scallan et al. 
Description and significance. Clostridium perfringens is a rod-shaped Gram-positive bacterium, which is a mesophile that has an optimal growing temperature of 37 C [2]. It is a non-motile pathogen that produces endospores.
Clostridium is a genus of Gram-positive bacteria belonging to the Firmicutes. They are obligate anaerobes capable of producing endospores. Individual cells are rod-shaped, which gives them their name, from the Greek kloster (κλωστήρ) or spindle. 
Clostridium Perfringens. Clostridium perfringens are bacteria that produce toxins harmful to humans. Clostridium perfringens and its toxins are found everywhere in the environment, but human infection is most likely to come from eating food with Clostridium perfringens in it. Food poisoning from Clostridium perfringens fairly common, but is typically not too severe, and is often mistaken for the 24-hour flu.
Clostridium perfringens (C. perfringens) is a spore-forming gram-positive bacterium that is found in many environmental sources as well as in the intestines of humans and animals. C. perfringens is commonly found on raw meat and poultry. Clostridium perfringens is one of the most common causes of foodborne illness in the United States. CDC estimates it causes nearly 1 million cases of foodborne illness each year.
Everyone is susceptible to food poisoning from C. perfringens. The very young and elderly are most at risk of C. perfringens infection and can experience more severe symptoms that may last for 1 to 2 weeks. Complications, including dehydration, may occur in severe cases. Clostridium perfringens is one of the most common causes of foodborne illness in the United States. CDC estimates it causes nearly 1 million cases of foodborne illness each year.