The SI unit of electric current is the ampere (A), which is equal to a flow of one coulomb of charge per second. Electric current is the flow (movement) of electric charge. The SI unit of electric current is the ampere (A), which is equal to a flow of one coulomb of charge per second. God_Of_War · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
In terms of SI units, the ampere can be also defined as a measure of the amount of electric charge of 6.241·10¹⁸ electrons, or one coulomb passing a cross section of a wire per one second. An ampere (A), is the SI unit of electric current and is one of the seven SI base units. The SI unit for measuring the rate of flow of electric charge is the ampere, which is charge flowing through some surface at the rate of one coulomb per second. Ampere is one of the seven base units in the system.
Confidence votes 22.5K. The ampere (symbol: A) is the SI Base Unit for electric current, and is defined in terms of the force between two, parallel, current-carrying conductors. 
It can also be carried by ions in an electrolyte, or by both ions and electrons such as in a plasma. The SI unit for measuring an electric current is the ampere, which is the flow of electric charge across a surface at the rate of one coulomb per second. Electric current is measured using a device called an ammeter. Electric currents cause Joule heating, which creates light in incandescent light bulbs. 
The standard unit of electrical current flow is called the ampere, usually abbreviated to amp or the single letter A. More detail. One amp is equal to a flow of electrical charge over time of one coulomb per second. The standard unit of electrical charge is the coulomb. The ampere (symbol: A) is the SI Base Unit for electric current, and is defined in terms of the force between two, parallel, current-carrying conductors.
The SI unit of charge, the coulomb, is the quantity of electricity carried in 1 second by a current of 1 ampere. Conversely, a current of one ampere is one coulomb of charge going past a given point per second: In general, charge Q is determined by steady current I flowing for a time t as Q = It. The ampere was originally defined as one tenth of the unit of electric current in the centimetre–gram–second system of units; that unit, now known as the abampere, was defined as the amount of current that generates a force of two dynes per centimetre of length between two wires one centimetre apart.
Electric current. Electric current is a flow of electricity through a medium and its SI unit is the ampere with the symbol A. The flow is typically through a wire and composed of electrons, the tiny particles that make up electricity. 
For other uses, see Ampere (disambiguation) . The ampere (SI unit symbol: A), often shortened to amp, is the SI unit of electric current (dimension symbol: I) and is one of the seven SI base units. The ampere was originally defined as one tenth of the unit of electric current in the centimetre–gram–second system of units; that unit, now known as the abampere, was defined as the amount of current that generates a force of two dynes per centimetre of length between two wires one centimetre apart.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Electric current is the flow (movement) of electric charge. The SI unit of electric current is the ampere (A), which is equal to a flow of one coulomb of charge per second In solid conductive metal, a large population of electrons are mobile or free electrons. Electric current is the flow (movement) of electric charge. The SI unit of electric current is the ampere (A), which is equal to a flow of one coulomb of charge per second. God_Of_War · 8 years ago. Thumbs up.
The ampere is a unit of current, the amount of charge transiting per unit time, and the coulomb is a unit of charge. The ampere was originally defined as one tenth of the unit of electric current in the centimetre–gram–second system of units; that unit, now known as the abampere, was defined as the amount of current that generates a force of two dynes per centimetre of length between two wires one centimetre apart.