For (Ca(OH) 2) (aq) , see limewater. For the application of slaked lime as a wall colorant, see limewash. Calcium hydroxide, traditionally called slaked lime, is an inorganic compound with the chemical formula Ca (OH) 2. It is a colorless crystal or white powder and is obtained when calcium oxide (called lime or quicklime) is mixed, or  slaked  with water. 
Fluorine, the element has a symbol/formula F. As a charged ion it has a -1 charge = F-Otherwise, fluorine is a diatomic molecule= F2 Calcium is also an element with sym … bol/formula Ca. As an ion it has a +2 charge, so it can be written as Ca2+. The chemical symbol of calcium is Ca.   The chemical symbol of nitrogen is N.   The chemical formula of calcium nitride is Ca3N2.
Report Abuse. Calcium is an element with an ion charge/oxidation number of 2+. Carbonate is a polyatomic ion with an ion charge of 2-. Since the two ion charges cancel out or equal zero, the formula would be CaCO3(the three is a subscript.) the Ca is the symbol for Calcium and the formula for carbonate is CO3. blah · 9 years ago. Thumbs up.
Calcium carbonate is the active ingredient in agricultural lime, and is created when calcium ions in hard water react with carbonate ions creating limescale. It is commonly used medicinally as a calcium supplement or as an antacid, but excessive consumption can be hazardous. Calcium carbonate will react with water that is saturated with carbon dioxide to form the soluble calcium bicarbonate.
Na2SO4 is sodium sulfate. 16. Write the chemical formula & name for each ionic compound that could be formed by the combination of 2 of the following ions: Ca2+; Na+; Cl and SO42-. Ionic compounds form from the combination of cations with anion. Using the above listed ions, the following combinations of ions are possibl
The formula for the calcium carbonate is CaCO3. This is most commonly used in the detergents. Calcium bicarbonate has little difference in the chemical structure and the bonding otherwise it resembles calcium carbonate. The chemical symbol of calcium is Ca.   The chemical symbol of nitrogen is N.   The chemical formula of calcium nitride is Ca3N2.
Report Abuse. Calcium chloride is CaCl2. Calcium ions are 'Cations' as Ca(+2) having donated 2 electrons to a reaction. Chlorine ions are 'Anions' as Cl(-1). For Ca+2 ro react with Cl-1 we need two ions of Cl-1 to neutralise Ca+2. Ca(+2) + (2 x Cl-1) = CaCl2.
Calcium carbonate is a chemical compound with the formula Ca C O 3. It is formed by three main elements: carbon, oxygen and calcium. It is a common substance found in rocks in all parts of the world, and is the main component of shells of marine organisms, snails, coal balls, pearls, and eggshells. Calcium carbonate will react with water that is saturated with carbon dioxide to form the soluble calcium bicarbonate.