System Integration Testing (SIT), in the context of software systems and software engineering, is a testing process that exercises a software system's coexistence with others. Integration testing is completed first, not the system testing. In other words, upon completion of integration testing, system testing is started, and not vice versa. For integration testing, test cases are developed with the express purpose of exercising the interfaces between the components.
Integration Testing is a level of software testing where individual units are combined and tested as a group. The purpose of this level of testing is to expose faults in the interaction between integrated units. 1 Well, the former tests only the interactions between the units while the latter tests the entire system. 2  Top Down is an approach to Integration Testing where top level units are tested first and lower level units are tested step by step after that.
In the context of software systems and software engineering, system integration testing (SIT) is a testing process that exercises a software system's coexistence with others. With multiple integrated systems, assuming that each have already passed system testing, SIT proceeds to test their required interactions. Following this, the deliverables are passed on to acceptance testing.
The main difference between System Testing and System Integration Testing is 1  –. System Testing looks after single system’s integrity with relevant environment. 2  System Integration Testing looks after multiple systems’ integrity with each other, being in same environment. 
System Integration Testing(SIT) is a black box testing technique that evaluates the system's compliance against specified requirements. System Integration Testing is usually performed on subset of system while system testing is performed on a complete system and is preceded by the user acceptance test (UAT). 
Systems testing is often performed against the whole platform, and treats the environment as a black box. system integration testing however, acts upon a subset of the whole system, and may mock other platforms, interact with databases, network sockets etc to evoke appropriate responses from the parts being validated.
(August 2010). Integration testing (sometimes called integration and testing, abbreviated I&T) is the phase in software testing in which individual software modules are combined and tested as a group. It occurs after unit testing and before validation testing. 
System integration testing is testing performed when two systems, generally presumed stable themselves, are integrated with one another. For example, this could be when an inventory management system is integrated with a sales accounting system. 