Gupta Empire. The Gupta Empire was one of the largest political and military empires in ancient India. It was ruled by the Gupta dynasty from around 320 to 550 CE and covered most of northern India. Origins. The origins of the Guptas are shrouded in obscurity. The Chinese traveller I-tsing provides the first evidence of the Gupta kingdom in Magadha.
India in Gupta age. The Gupta Empire (320 - 540 AD) was one of the largest political and military empires in ancient India. It was ruled by the Gupta dynasty from around 240 to 550 CE and covered most of northern India and what is now eastern Pakistan and Bangladesh. During this period it was considered a Great power
THE GUPTA EMPIRE  The Gupta dynasty came to power in India in AD 320 and ruled until 550.  The strong Gupta government, which gave power to local leaders, united much of the Indian subcontinent and ensured peace and prosperity.  Hinduism had a very strong impact on Gupta society and cultural life. 
Decline and Fall. Chandra Gupta II died in 415 and was succeeded by his son, Kumara Gupta, who maintained India's peace and prosperity. During his forty-year reign the Gupta Empire remained undiminished. Then, as did the Roman Empire around this time, India suffered more invasions. Around 380, Samudra Gupta was succeeded by his son Chandra Gupta II, and the son extended Gupta rule to India's west coast, where new ports were helping India's trade with countries farther west. Chandra Gupta II influenced local powers beyond the Indus River and north to Kashmir.
The Gupta Empire (Sanskrit: गुप्तसाम्राज्य, Gupta Sāmrājya) was an ancient Indian empire, founded by Maharaja Sri Gupta, which existed at its zenith from approximately 320 to 550 CE and covered much of the Indian Subcontinent. After the collapse of the Gupta Empire in the 6th century, India was again ruled by numerous regional kingdoms. A minor line of the Gupta clan continued to rule Magadha after the disintegration of the empire.
The Gupta Empire Begins. The Gupta Empire was an ancient Indian empire that was founded in 320 CE and survived until about 550 CE. The Gupta Empire covered most of north and central India, as well as Bangladesh. It was known to be one of the most peaceful and wealthy civilizations of its time.
Though the Gupta Empire was not as widespread as the Mauryan Empire was in India, yet the Gupta dynasty was successful in creating an empire that is significant in the history of India. The Gupta Period is also popularly known as the Golden Age of India and for the right reasons. 1 Samudragupta (335 - 375 A.D): Samudragupta was the son and successor of Chandragupta. 2  Samudragupta was popularly known as the Indian Napoleon as he conquered many territories without making much of an effort. 3  It is said that after Emperor Ashoka, the empire of Samudragupta was the supreme.