MPTP (1- methyl -4- phenyl -1,2,3,6-tetrahydro pyridine) is a neurotoxin precursor to MPP+ , which causes permanent symptoms of Parkinson's disease by destroying dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra of the brain. It has been used to study disease models in various animal studies.
And MPTP, it also turned out, is awfully similar in structure to the widely used herbicide paraquat, leading some neurologists to turn their attention to farms and fields. In 2000, a meta-analysis linked confirmed and presumed pesticide exposure with increased risk of Parkinson’s.
Secondly, the use of an acronym as a search term for an molecular compound and the research associated with is a bit on the sketchy side. I repeated your searches for EHT under the full name Eicosanoyl-5-hydroxytryptamide and found a wealth of peer review research and clinical trials.
The third category of drugs prescribed for PD includes medications that help control the non-motor symptoms of the disease, that is, the symptoms that don't affect movement. For example, people with PD-related depression may be prescribed antidepressants. 1  Levodopa/Carbidopa.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a degenerative disorder of the central nervous system that belongs to a group of conditions called movement disorders. It is both chronic, meaning it persists over a long period of time, and progressive, meaning its symptoms grow worse over time.
While MPTP itself has no psychoactive effects, the compound may be accidentally produced during the manufacture of MPPP, a synthetic opioid drug with effects similar to those of morphine and pethidine (meperidine).
PD is a slowly progressive disorder. It is not possible to predict what course the disease will take for an individual person. One commonly used scale neurologists use for describing how the symptoms of PD have progressed in a patient is the Hoehn and Yahr scale.
MPTP is used in industry as a chemical intermediate; the chloride of the toxic metabolite MPP+ was turned into the herbicide cyperquat. Various MPTP like structures are used in synthesis schemes; take Alvocidib for instance, which uses o, o, p-trimethoxy-MPTP as the precursor for the reaction sequence.
MPTP itself is not toxic, and as a lipophilic compound can cross the blood–brain barrier. Once inside the brain, MPTP is metabolized into the toxic cation 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+) by the enzyme MAO-B of glial cells.