If you've ever used Google's free Chrome browser, you may be aware that it's closely related to another, similarly named Google project called Chromium.. Chrome and Chromium share a heavy portion of their core browser code, but Chrome is a proprietary Google product, while Chromium is open source. Both serve Linux, Windows and Mac OS X platforms, however, and both continue to vie for user share with Mozilla's open source Firefox, their distant cousin. Google released a large portion of Chrome's source code as an open source project called Chromium for the Windows platform in September 2008. The intent was to encourage third-party software developers to review its underlying code and contribute to porting the browser to Linux and Mac platforms.
Google Chrome is based on Chromium, the Open Source Web Browser. I've been using both of them and they are 99.99% similar. I finally choose to use Chromium because it's open source. You can still use all the extensions for Chrome, and also sync your bookmarks (and other stuff) with a Gmail account. There are some key differences between Google Chrome and Chromium. First off, Google Chrome is a commercial closed source product made by Google which is based on the open source Chromium project.
Growing Pains. Increasingly, Chromium is being included as the default browser in a growing number of Linux distributions. Chrome, on the other hand, -- because it is not completely open source, although still free -- must be downloaded and installed independently. Google released a large portion of Chrome's source code as an open source project called Chromium for the Windows platform in September 2008. The intent was to encourage third-party software developers to review its underlying code and contribute to porting the browser to Linux and Mac platforms.
1 Chromium browser is like the bleeding edge of the Chromium project while Google Chrome is the more user focused version, rebranded version ie. 2  But in reality, since Google Chrome closely follows Chromium with regard to changes, you will hardly find any difference between the two. 1 Chromium has been my default web browser for more than an year now and I'm loving it. 2  On a final note, we all have to understand one basic fact. 3  Be it Chrome/Chromium/Firefox/IE, Google probably doesn't care which web browser you use. 4  Google wants this internet eco system to grow and that is where their money is.
Chromium. Chromium is an open-source browser project that aims to build a safer, faster, and more stable way for all users to experience the web. This site contains design documents, architecture overviews, testing information, and more to help you learn to build and work with the Chromium source code. The Chromium projects include Chromium and Chromium OS, the open-source projects behind the Google Chrome browser and Google Chrome OS, respectively.
The Google Chrome Web browser is based on the open source Chromium project. Google released Chrome in 2008 and issues several updates a year. It is available for Windows, Mac OS X, Linux, Android and iOS operating systems. The Google Chrome browser takes a sandboxing-based approach to Web security. 
Chromium is the open source web browser project from which Google Chrome draws its source code. The browsers share the majority of code and features, though there are some minor differences. The Chromium Project takes its name from the element chromium, the metal from which Chrome plating is made. Google's intention, as expressed in the developer documentation, was that Chromium would be the name of the open source project and that the final product name would be Chrome.
Publisher's Description. From Free-chrome: Chromium is an open-source browser project that provides a safer, faster, and more stable way for all Internet users to experience the web. Chromium is a sleek, lightweight browser that provides an efficient browsing experience with no unnecessary clutter. We've always been Firefox loyalists ourselves, but Chromium impressed us quite a bit.
Google Chrome is the stable version of Chromium browser. Google Chrome is based on Chromium. Hence, Chromium is a developer build where tests and new features are being tested at Chromium before it is shifted to Google Chrome as stable version. There are some key differences between Google Chrome and Chromium. First off, Google Chrome is a commercial closed source product made by Google which is based on the open source Chromium project.
Chromium is the open-source web browser project from which Google Chrome draws its source code. The browsers share the majority of code and features, though there are some minor differences in features and they have different licensing. 1 Sleipnir is a Chromium derivative browser for Windows and OS X. 2  One of its main features is linking to Web apps (Facebook, Twitter, Dropbox, etc.) and smartphone apps (Google Map, etc.). 3  It also boasts what it calls beautiful text, and has unique graphical tabs, among other features.