Femoroacetabular impingement (FAI) is a condition where the bones of the hip are abnormally shaped. Because they do not fit together perfectly, the hip bones rub against each other and cause damage to the joint. In cam impingement the femoral head is not round and cannot rotate smoothly inside the acetabulum. A bump forms on the edge of the femoral head that grinds the cartilage inside the acetabulum. Combined. Combined impingement just means that both the pincer and cam types are present. (Left) Pincer impingeme
Plumbing is usually distinguished from water and sewage systems, in that a plumbing system serves one building, while water and sewage systems serve a group of buildings or a city.   (copied from wikipedia). 1 A clogged sink or toilet, leaky pipes or a garbage disposal that needs replacing are common occurrences. 2  Doing repairs yoursel…. 3  Key Plumbing Tips for People Building a New House Building a new house is not a simple process, and one of the more complex aspects is installing the plumbing system.
Contrary to popular perception, plumbing is a very interesting and varied career. The sheer variety of work makes it impossible to list all that can be undertaken. Some of the jobs that a plumber does involve installing the water supply and fuel supply systems, for example: The list shows that a plumber needs a number of skills to work effectively, a reasonable level of literacy and numeracy also is needed, as well as the physical skills to manipulate tools and equipment and good social skills are needed too.
TERM EXPLANATION 'A' Valve A manual gas shut-off valve. ABS Acrylonitrile-Butadiene-Styrene. Rigid black plastic pipe used for drain / waste / vent lines. AC Alternating Current. Electrical supply in which the polarity of the wire reverses rapidly. An adjustable strap / bar that forms a connection between the lift rod of a faucet and the ball lever assembly of the drain. Aeration. The turbulent mixing of water and air to dissipate pollutants into the air. Aerator. A device attached to the end of a faucet that mixes air into flowing water..
Plumbing is the art and technique of installing pipes, fixtures, and fittings.     Answer 2   Plumbing, from the Latin plumbum for lead, is the skilled trade of w … orking with pipes, tubing and plumbing fixtures for drinking water systems and the drainage of waste. 1 A clogged sink or toilet, leaky pipes or a garbage disposal that needs replacing are common occurrences. 2  Doing repairs yoursel…. 3  Key Plumbing Tips for People Building a New House Building a new house is not a simple process, and one of the more complex aspects is installing the plumbing system.
Cause. FAI occurs because the hip bones do not form normally during the childhood growing years. It is the deformity of a cam bone spur, pincer bone spur, or both, that leads to joint damage and pain. When the hip bones are shaped abnormally, there is little that can be done to prevent FAI. In cam impingement the femoral head is not round and cannot rotate smoothly inside the acetabulum. A bump forms on the edge of the femoral head that grinds the cartilage inside the acetabulum. Combined. Combined impingement just means that both the pincer and cam types are present. (Left) Pincer impingement
A part used to join two sections of pipe or other fittings together. An example of a fitting is an elbow, bushing, or coupling. FIXTURE: Broad term in plumbing/kitchen/bath that could be an entire toilet, sink, tub, etc OR it could be the devices that provide a supply of water. FLAPPER: Part of the flush valve that seals water inside the toilet tank or allows passage of water into the toilet bowl during the flush cycle. Also known as a flush ball. 
The hip is a ball-and-socket joint. The socket is formed by the acetabulum, which is part of the large pelvis bone. The ball is the femoral head, which is the upper end of the femur (thighbone). In cam impingement the femoral head is not round and cannot rotate smoothly inside the acetabulum. A bump forms on the edge of the femoral head that grinds the cartilage inside the acetabulum. Combined. Combined impingement just means that both the pincer and cam types are present. (Left) Pincer impingement