By 1825 much of this empire had fallen into other hands and in that year, Spain acknowledged the independence of its possessions in the present-day United States (then under Mexican control) and south to the tip of South America.
The war ended with the signing of the Treaty of Paris on December 10, 1898. As a result Spain lost its control over the remains of its overseas empire -- Cuba, Puerto Rico, the Philippines Islands, Guam, and other islands.
In 1898 following the Spanish-American War, Spain ceded Guam along with Puerto Rico and the Philippines to the U.S. Under the Peace Treaty of Paris, Guam's political status would be determined by Congress.
Representatives of Spain and the United States signed a peace treaty in Paris on December 10, 1898, which established the independence of Cuba, ceded Puerto Rico and Guam to the United States, and allowed the victorious power to purchase the Philippines Islands from Spain for $20 million.
The Spanish-American War (1898) was a conflict between the United States and Spain that ended Spanish colonial rule in the Americas and resulted in U.S. acquisition of territories in the western Pacific and Latin America. The war originated in the Cuban struggle for independence from Spain, which began in February 1895.
Guam was declared independent on July 21, 1944. This day is celebrated as the Liberation Day every year. The Battle of Guam was fought by the United States in the year 1944 and Guam was made an independent territory. Before independence, Guam was ruled by Japan.
1961: Sierra Leone wins independence Sierra Leone has become the latest West African state to win independence, after more than 150 years of British colonial rule. 1961: Sierra Leone wins independence. The new nation was born at the stroke of midnight, when its green, white and blue flag was unfurled.
Morroco's Independence. Beginning in the year of 1920, nationalism began to arise among the people of Morocco. While Morocco was under control of France and Spain, nationalist made several attempts to get independence for their country.
About This Site | Text Only. 1961: Sierra Leone wins independence Sierra Leone has become the latest West African state to win independence, after more than 150 years of British colonial rule. The new nation was born at the stroke of midnight, when its green, white and blue flag was unfurled.