Here are a few human meds you can give to dogs: ~BUFFERED aspirin, has a powder coating, and is safe to administer to your dog for pain and inflammation associated with arthritis or injury. Never give a dog enteric coated aspirin (hard coating). 
Conclusion on Aspirin. You can cautiously provide aspirin to your dog but you should consult with a vet first. Further, don’t give them just any type of aspirin. While it’s generally an effective remedy for dogs suffering with pain, people confuse brands and variations of NSAID pain relievers which is very dangerous. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. 1. DO NOT give human medication. Many anti-inflamitories such as Ibuprofen and Motrin can cause serious health issues for your pooch. 2. If you're 100% positive that it is a pulled/ strained muscle, then treat with rest and ice for a few days. 3. Remember your dog cannot tell you exactly where it hurts, how bad it hurts, or how it hurts. Don't poke or prod too much. Even the most loyal pet can become aggressive when hurt
For any of the above problems you can aspirin to help with pain and discomfort. The dose for dogs is 1 adult aspirin per 30 pounds twice daily or 1 baby aspirin per 10 pounds twice daily. If the situation gets worse or doesn’t improve in a day or two, get it diagnosed and treated. If your dog can’t support any weight, is extremely painful, and you can’t determine the cause of the discomfort, get it checked out. If you want to try and relieve a bit of the pain try a dose or two of aspirin.
A pulled muscle in a dog can take a long time to heal. There are a few things you can do to help ease his pain and speed the healing process. You may approach it with natural remedies or with medication. Either way your buddy will need time and lots of rest. First give your buddy a nice soak in a hot bath with Epsom salt. Keep the hurt muscle submerged for at least 15 minutes. Crushed yucca leaves are a natural pain reliever that has been tested for safety in dogs. You can simply crush 1 ounce of leaf and hide it in your dog's food.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: do not give your dog ibuprofen or Tylenol, as these products cannot be metabolized through your dogs liver; thus, making him VERY sick or even die. you can, however, give your dog an aspirin once a day for about 5 days.. Asprin for babies is fine but, do not give IBUROPHEN! Iburophen is toxic to dogs and could kill them, now for the asprin give 1/2 in the morning and 1/2 at night and you could be a ice pack or a hot back and alternate.
Report Abuse. Ibuprofen is not safe for dogs, or cats for that matter. Aspirin 81mg with food once or twice a day for a couple of days.The aspirin go according to weight and your dog is a Jack russell. Of course trying to limit the dogs exercise will also help. Asprin for babies is fine but, do not give IBUROPHEN! Iburophen is toxic to dogs and could kill them, now for the asprin give 1/2 in the morning and 1/2 at night and you could be a ice pack or a hot back and alternate.
No, you should never give human fever medications (ibuprofen, acetominophen, aspirin, Tylenol, Advil, Aleve, Motrin, Paracetamol, etc) to dogs because they are very sensitive … to the side effects. You can easily cause a fatal stomach ulcer with these medications. You can also give your dog aspirin. (enteric coated should not be used because it will not be digested. A typical aspirin dose is 5 to 10 mg per pound (10 to 20 mg/kg) twice daily for dogs, and 5 mg per pound (10 mg/kg) once every other day for cats. Dosage info from PetPlace no do not give Tylenol or ibprofen to dogs.