Vaccination with the full, two-dose series of Hepatitis A vaccine is the best way to prevent HAV infection. Hepatitis A vaccine has been licensed in the United States for use in persons 12 months of age and older. Persons who have recently been exposed to HAV and who have not been vaccinated previously should be administered a single dose of single-antigen Hepatitis A vaccine or IG (0.02 mL/kg) as soon as possible, within 2 weeks after exposure.
The initial dose of the vaccine should be followed up by a booster six to twelve months later. Protection against hepatitis A begins approximately two to four weeks after the initial vaccination. Protection is proven to last at least 15 years and is estimated to last at least 25 years if the full course is administered.
Hepatitis A vaccine is a vaccine against the hepatitis A virus. The first successful vaccine against it was invented by Maurice Hilleman at Merck. The vaccine protects against the virus in more than 95% of cases and provides protection from the virus for at least fifteen years. Protection against hepatitis A begins approximately two to four weeks after the initial vaccination. Protection is proven to last at least 15 years and is estimated to last at least 25 years if the full course is administered.
The dosing schedule for Twinrix is different from the other hepatitis A vaccines and requires three doses over six months. In the United States, hepatitis A vaccination is recommended for all children at one year of age. Vaccination also is recommended for individuals in high-risk settings. Examples include: 1  travelers to developing countries, 2  men who have sex with men, 3  users of illicit drugs, 4  persons needing frequent blood products, and. 1 If an unvaccinated person is exposed to hepatitis A, he or she should be given the vaccine or immune globulin as soon as possible. 2  Vaccine is used for exposed persons aged one to 40 years. 3  Immune globulin currently is recommended for exposed persons over the age of 40 years.
1 Understand that hepatitis B vaccination-induced protective antibodies can last for up to 15 years, but appear to fall off over time. 2  Patients who were vaccinated 10 to 15 years ago, especially those who were vaccinated as children, may not be adequately protected. 
Hepatitis is an inflammation of the liver, most often caused by a viral infection. There are three common types of hepatitis caused by viruses: hepatitis A, hepatitis B, and hepatitis C. Vaccines have been developed that protect people from contracting hepatitis A and B. There is no vaccine for hepatitis C. Hepatitis A and hepatitis B can be spread from person to person, although in different ways. The hepatitis A virus is found in the stool of the infected person. It is spread through contaminated food or water or by certain types of sexual contact. Children who get hepatitis A often don't have symptoms, so they can have the virus and not know it. However, they can still spread it easily.
Hepatitis A vaccination is recommended for all children at age 1 year, for persons who are at increased risk for infection, for persons who are at increased risk for complications from Hepatitis A, and for any person wishing to obtain immunity. Persons who have recently been exposed to HAV and who have not been vaccinated previously should be administered a single dose of single-antigen Hepatitis A vaccine or IG (0.02 mL/kg) as soon as possible, within 2 weeks after exposure.
Previously, Hepatitis A vaccination was recommended to be administered at least 2–4 weeks before departure to an area with intermediate or high rates of Hepatitis A. Travelers who were departing in less than 2 weeks were recommended to receive receive immune globulin (IG) for short-term protection. Persons who have recently been exposed to HAV and who have not been vaccinated previously should be administered a single dose of single-antigen Hepatitis A vaccine or IG (0.02 mL/kg) as soon as possible, within 2 weeks after exposure.
1 For healthy persons aged 12 months–40 years, single-antigen Hepatitis A vaccine at the age-appropriate dose is preferred to IG because of the vaccine’s advantages, including long-term protection and ease of administration, as well as the equivalent efficacy of vaccine to IG. Persons who have recently been exposed to HAV and who have not been vaccinated previously should be administered a single dose of single-antigen Hepatitis A vaccine or IG (0.02 mL/kg) as soon as possible, within 2 weeks after exposure.
A. I took the Hep A vaccine and then six months later took a booster and it supposedly lasts for life. But you have to get the booster. I read that Hep B vaccine is similar. Here's some more info that I pulled out of an article: Both the vaccines for hepatitis A and the vaccines for hepatitis B are highly effective. In studies of the four vaccines used for hepatitis A, nearly 100% of all adults who receive one develop protective levels of antibodies within one month of receiving a single dose