1 If you suspect a poisoning emergency, call the National Poison Control Center toll-free at (800) 222-1222. 2  Post this and other emergency phone numbers by all of your telephones. 3  Keep all chemicals and medicines locked up and out of sight. 4  Be careful when handling substances, chemicals and cleaners that could be harmful. More than 2 million poisonings are reported each year across the country. The Red Cross urges people to follow these steps to help prevent, treat and respond to poisoning: 1 
Take the following actions until help arrives: 1  Swallowed poison. 2  Remove anything remaining in the person's mouth. 3  If the suspected poison is a household cleaner or other chemical, read the container's label and follow instructions for accidental poisoning. 1 If the person vomits, turn his or her head to the side to prevent choking. 2  Begin CPR if the person shows no signs of life, such as moving, breathing or coughing. 3  Call Poison Help at 800-222-1222 in the United States or your regional poison control for additional instructions.
There are two ways to get help for a poisoning emergency. 1  Use the webPOISONCONTROL® tool to get specific guidance for your case, based on your age, weight, substance and amount taken, or. 2  Call Poison Control at 1-800-222-1222 (U.S. only; use local procedures elsewhere). You can either:
If you suspect poisoning, be alert for clues such as empty pill bottles or packages, scattered pills, and burns, stains and odors on the person or nearby objects. With a child, consider the possibility that he or she may have applied medicated patches or swallowed a button battery. 1 If the person vomits, turn his or her head to the side to prevent choking. 2  Begin CPR if the person shows no signs of life, such as moving, breathing or coughing. 3  Call Poison Help at 800-222-1222 in the United States or your regional poison control for additional instructions.
Many substances — such as drugs and carbon monoxide — are poisonous only in higher concentrations or dosages. And others — such as cleaners — are dangerous only if ingested. Children are particularly sensitive to even small amounts of certain drugs and chemicals. 1 If the person vomits, turn his or her head to the side to prevent choking. 2  Begin CPR if the person shows no signs of life, such as moving, breathing or coughing. 3  Call Poison Help at 800-222-1222 in the United States or your regional poison control for additional instructions.
Definition. Poisoning is caused by swallowing, injecting, breathing in, or otherwise being exposed to a harmful substance. Most poisonings occur by accident. Immediate first aid is very important in a poisoning emergency. The first aid you give before getting medical help can save a person's life. This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure
1 Swallowed poison. 2  Remove anything remaining in the person's mouth. 3  If the suspected poison is a household cleaner or other chemical, read the container's label and follow instructions for accidental poisoning. 1 If the person vomits, turn his or her head to the side to prevent choking. 2  Begin CPR if the person shows no signs of life, such as moving, breathing or coughing. 3  Call Poison Help at 800-222-1222 in the United States or your regional poison control for additional instructions.
Call 911 right away if the individual collapses, has a seizure, has trouble breathing, or can't be awakened. But before you contact Poison Control, whether by phone or online, there are some quick first aid measures that make a difference if accomplished within seconds to minutes of the poison exposure. Be familiar with these steps. You can either: 1  Use the webPOISONCONTROL® tool to get specific guidance for your case, based on your age, weight, substance and amount taken, or. 2  Call Poison Control at 1-800-222-1222 (U.S. only; use local procedures elsewhere).
If you, or someone in your care, may have been poisoned, do not wait for symptoms to occur. Take these first aid steps, then contact the Poisons Information Centre (13 11 26) to find out what to do next. 1  Give the person who has swallowed the poison a sip of water. 2  If safe to do so, take the poison container to the telephone. 3  Call the Poisons Information Centre on 13 11 26. 4  Do not try to make them vomit. These First Aid steps can be printed and kept for future use. Alternatively, a poisons advice brochure may be ordered. Other resources, including a sticker for your telephone can also
Most poisonings occur by accident. Immediate first aid is very important in a poisoning emergency. The first aid you give before getting medical help can save a person's life. This is for information only and not for use in the treatment or management of an actual poison exposure. In the United States, call 1-800-222-1222 to speak with a local poison control center.