If this is a new garden area, a soil test will target specific nutrient applications to get off to the best start.In the absence of test results, apply about 2-3 pounds ofa high-phosphorus fertilizer, such as 6-24-24 or 5-10-5, to the bed and work it into the top 6 inches of soil. 
The Best Soil for Growing Strawberries. Strawberries do best in a well-drained, loamy soil that contains lots of organic matter. The soil pH for strawberries should be in the range of 5.5 to 6.5. If your soil doesn’t quite fit this description, you’ll still be able to grow strawberries. 
Step 1. Choose a site for your raised beds. Strawberries grow best in full sun. Beds that provide 6-8 inches of raised soil will work best to create the well-drained soil strawberries will need. Beds that are no more than 3 feet wide will provide easy access for weeding and harvesting. Step 3. Plant strawberries in the spring after the soil has dried. Use a hand shovel to dig a hole large enough to spread out the root of the plant and deep enough so that the soil comes halfway up the crown. The uppermost roots should be 1/4 inch below the soil level.
Like most garden plants, strawberries prefer a loam soil, a soil-type made up of roughly equal amounts of clay (i.e. microscopic particle size material); sand (small-grain size); and silt, or organic matter (i.e., compost, manure, straw). One exception: the first number, nitrogen, can be 5 or 10 less than the other numbers if you are using a lot of animal manure in your soil. If you have 5-5-5 fertilizer, you will need 1/8 cup (30 ml) of fertilizer for every strawberry plant per application.
Mix in 4 quarts compost or well-rotted manure and 1/2 quart of coarse sand to the soil mixture. Turn the soil mixture while you add 8 quarts of perlite. Sprinkle 1/2 cup of garden lime over the soil mixture and stir it in well so the lime is evenly distributed throughout the mixture. 3. Moisten the soil mixture with water so the soil is damp. Do not saturate the soil mixture. To avoid over-watering, moisten the top and stir the mix from the bottom to the top. Repeat this process just until the soil feels like a damp sponge in your hand.
Step 4. Fill the bed with 2-inch layers of compost, top soil and potting soil. Add slow-release fertilizer per package directions when you get within 2 inches of the top of the bed. Mix everything with a shovel. Don't disturb the underlying layer of paper. Rake smooth. Water to settle the soil. A raised bed is ideal for strawberries. It provides the rich soil they require, gets the strawberries above ground level and away from snails and slugs, and is easier to protect from birds. Raised beds are not difficult to build.
The ideal height for a raised bed is a matter of preference for gardeners. Considerations include the cost of raised beds, the condition of the soil beneath the bed, soil depth requirements for the intended crop, and especially important to mature gardeners, how much bending over you want to do. The most popular height for raised beds is 11. (This is the height of two standard 2 x 6 boards, which actually measure 1.5 x 5.5.) This height provides sufficient drainage for most crops. For best results, there should be another 12 or more of good soil below the bed.
While a standard loam soil (i.e. equal parts sand, clay, and organic matter) is acceptable for strawberries, a 30% clay, 30% organic matter, and 40% sand blend is actually closer to the perfect strawberry soil mix. One exception: the first number, nitrogen, can be 5 or 10 less than the other numbers if you are using a lot of animal manure in your soil. If you have 5-5-5 fertilizer, you will need 1/8 cup (30 ml) of fertilizer for every strawberry plant per application.