The standard deviation is the square root of the variance, which in this case is or 1.73. Comparison to mean absolute deviation. The mean absolute deviation is when the negative sign is ignored so that all deviations are converted to positive numbers, summed, and then averaged. The standard deviation is the measure that is most often used to describe variability in data distributions. It can be thought of as a rough measure of the average amount by which observations deviate on either side of the mean.
Standard Deviation is a measure of variation (or variability) that indicates the typical distance between the scores of a distribution and the mean. 
Standard deviation is a statistical measure. It may be used in psychology but is not restricted to that subject. It is a measure of the spread of the distribution of values of some attribute that is being measured. No, the standard deviation is a measure of the entire population. The sample standard deviation is an unbiased estimator of the population. It is different in notation and is … written as 's' as opposed to the greek letter sigma. Mathematically the difference is a factor of n/(n-1) in the variance of the sample
The square of S.D is called variance. The standard deviation is used as a measure of … the variance of a measurement within a group of objects. In essence, it is the average difference between the measurement of any one object and the mean measurement for the group. No, the standard deviation is a measure of the entire population. The sample standard deviation is an unbiased estimator of the population. It is different in notation and is … written as 's' as opposed to the greek letter sigma. Mathematically the difference is a factor of n/(n-1) in the variance of the sample
This is why a standard deviation is the square root of the variance. The points or units plotted from the variance become the data set. Standard deviations and variances are common measures of dispersion. A standard deviation is how a set of data is plotted around the mean (average) of a set of data. A normal distribution of data means that the numbers in the standard deviation's data set are close to the mean. One standard deviation from the mean (red area) on the x-axis usually accounts for about 68% of
The standard deviation of a random variable, statistical population, data set, or probability distribution is the square root of its variance. It is algebraically simpler, though in practice less robust, than the average absolute deviation. The variance is the mean of these values: and the population standard deviation is equal to the square root of the variance: This formula is valid only if the eight values with which we began form the complete population.
In other words, the standard deviation σ (sigma) is the square root of the variance of X; i.e., it is the square root of the average value of (X − μ) 2. The standard deviation of a (univariate) probability distribution is the same as that of a random variable having that distribution. The variance is the mean of these values: and the population standard deviation is equal to the square root of the variance: This formula is valid only if the eight values with which we began form the complete population.
Standard deviations are scores around the mean of a distribution. It measures how much a set of scores is dispersed around an average measure of variability. Deviations around the mean can be calculated to express it as a variance or a standard deviation. A normal distribution of data means that the numbers in the standard deviation's data set are close to the mean. One standard deviation from the mean (red area) on the x-axis usually accounts for about 68% of the data set.
Thus, the standard deviation is equal to the square root of (the average of the squares less the square of the average). See computational formula for the variance for a proof of this fact, and for an analogous result for the sample standard deviation. In the case where X takes random values from a finite data set, with each value having the same probability, the standard deviation is. or, using summation notation, The standard deviation of a (univariate) probability distribution is the same as that of a random variable having that distribution.