DNA is a double helix formed by base pairs attached to a sugar-phosphate backbone. DNA, or deoxyribonucleic acid, is the hereditary material in humans and almost all other organisms. Nearly every cell in a person’s body has the same DNA. Most DNA is located in the cell nucleus (where it is called nuclear DNA), but a small amount of DNA can also be found in the mitochondria (where it is called mitochondrial DNA or mtDNA). The information in DNA is stored as a code made up of four chemical bases: adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C), and thymine (T). 
DNA is found in the cell nucleus, which is often referred to as the cell's control center because it contains all the cell's genetic information. + 12 others found this useful. If it is eukaryotic, (having a nucleus) the DNA is in the nucleus, but if it is prokaryotic, (no nucleus) the DNA floats around in the … cytoplasm. 9 people found this useful. 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
Human Cells. Nucleus. DNA can be found inside the nucleus of every cell, apart from red blood cells. It's tightly wound and spread throughout the 46 chromosomes. One set of 23 chromosomes is inherited from each parent. Inside the chromosomes the DNA exists as genes. Plants and Animals. In plants and animals DNA is also found in the cell nucleus. The DNA of all animals is very similar. The major differences are in the number of chromosomes and genes, and the arrangement of base pairs within these genes.
The information in DNA is stored as a code made up of four chemical bases: adenine (A), guanine (G), cytosine (C), and thymine (T). Human DNA consists of about 3 billion bases, and more than 99 percent of those bases are the same in all people. DNA is a double helix formed by base pairs attached to a sugar-phosphate backbone. DNA, or deoxyribonucleic acid, is the hereditary material in humans and almost all other organisms. Nearly every cell in a person’s body has the same DNA.
The majority of a cell's DNA is located in the nucleus, but a  small amount is found in the mitochon … dria, and is referred to as  mitochondrial DNA. If it is eukaryotic, (having a nucleus) the DNA is in the nucleus, but if it is prokaryotic, (no nucleus) the DNA floats around in the … cytoplasm. 9 people found this useful. 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
DNA is a genetic material, which transfer the genetic information from one generation to anathor generation, it is found in nucleus of cell. 
Although most DNA is packaged in chromosomes within the nucleus, mitochondria also have a small amount of their own DNA. This genetic material is known as mitochondrial DNA or mtDNA. Mitochondria (illustration) are structures within cells that convert the energy from food into a form that cells can use. Each cell contains hundreds to thousands of mitochondria, which are located in the fluid that surrounds the nucleus (the cytoplasm). DNA is a double helix formed by base pairs attached to a sugar-phosphate backbone. DNA, or deoxyribonucleic acid, is the hereditary material in humans and almost all other organisms. Nearly every cell in a person’s body has the same DNA.
It carries this information from DNA, which is housed inside the cell nucleus, to the ribosomes. These can be found in the cytoplasm and are the 'factories' which make the proteins. Inside the nucleus RNA transcribes the genetic information by producing a complimentary nucleic acid strand-a copy of a DNA sequence. When it reaches the ribosomes the information is translated to produce a protein. RNA Can Also Be Found ... ... in the bacterial genome and also in viruses. There are also RNA viruses where the principal genetic material is RNA, and not DNA. It is usually single-stranded, but double-stranded forms exist too.
DNA is found in the nucleus, and mitochondria and chloroplasts, cytoplasm too, but not very frequently.... RNA is found pretty much everywhere-nucleus, nucleolus, mitochondria, chloroplasts, ribosomes, cytoplasm... 