They're larger than coyotes elsewhere, but that's typical of a lot of species, such as bears. This is known as a latitudinal clineas you go north, animals get larger. Once you factor that in, it's not clear that coyotes of the Northeast are exceptionally large. Once regarded as a symbol of the American West, the coyote has been quietly moving east since the early 20th century. In recent decades, it has colonized such far-flung places as Cape Cod, and in 1999 one was captured in New York City's Central Park.
The pups are able to hunt on their own by the following fall. Coyotes are smaller than wolves and are sometimes called prairie wolves or brush wolves. They communicate with a distinctive call, which at night often develops into a raucous canine chorus. Size relative to a 6-ft (2-m) man: The coyote appears often in the tales and traditions of Native Americans—usually as a very savvy and clever beast. Modern coyotes have displayed their cleverness by adapting to the changing American landscape.
Coyotes are extremely adaptable and use a wide range of habitats including forests, grasslands, deserts, and swamps. They are typically excluded from areas with wolves. Coyotes, because of their tolerance for human activities, also occur in suburban, agricultural, and urban settings. Howling may act to announce where their territory is to other packs. Coyotes also howl when two or more members of a pack re-unite and to announce to each other where they are. Their sense of sight is also well developed and is used primarily to observe the facial expressions and body language of pack members.
Coyotes will eat almost anything and adapt quickly to new environments. Because of this, their range is spreading throughout much of North America. Coyotes eat almost everything: mice, insects, fish, frogs, lizards, grasses, nuts, and all sorts of dead animals. They even eat watermelon. 1 Coyotes are clever enough to trick other animals. 2  A coyote might leap about crazily near a group of birds to distract them, then its partner might sneak up on the birds and seize a few of them for dinner. 3  People have helped coyotes to spread across
Home. Coyotes have a central den site which is used for rearing the pups and sleeping. They will scent mark the area around the den and defend it from other coyotes. The den can be a burrow dug into the ground, or under a rock outcropping, a tree or a bush. Adaptations. Coyotes adjust their hunting style to what foods are available. When they hunt small prey alone, they usually stalk it and then pounce. If the prey is larger like a deer, they will often hunt in small packs and work together to kill the prey.
1 Wolves eat many of the same small animals that coyotes do. 2  And like many other predators, wolves know how to kill competitors—in this case, coyotes. 3  With the wolf practically gone in many areas, the coyote has quickly moved in. 4  Some coyotes kill calves and lambs on people's ranches and farms. 1 Coyotes are clever enough to trick other animals. 2  A coyote might leap about crazily near a group of birds to distract them, then its partner might sneak up on the birds and seize a few of them for dinner. 3  People have helped coyotes to spread across North America.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Coywolf (sometimes called woyote) is an informal term for a canid hybrid descended from coyotes and one of three other North American Canis species, the gray, eastern and red wolf. 
Diet. Coyotes are omnivores, which means they will eat or try to eat just about anything. In the Sonoran Desert coyotes vary their diet with the seasons. Cactus fruit, mesquite beans, flowers, insects, rodents, lizards, rabbits, birds, and snakes make up some of their dietary choices. Adaptations. Coyotes adjust their hunting style to what foods are available. When they hunt small prey alone, they usually stalk it and then pounce. If the prey is larger like a deer, they will often hunt in small packs and work together to kill the prey.
The ancestors of the coyote diverged from those of the gray wolf, 1–2 million years ago, with the modern species arising in North America during the Middle Pleistocene. The coyote is typically smaller than the gray wolf, but has longer ears and a larger braincase, as well as a thinner frame, face and muzzle. The coyote also carries its tail downwards when running or walking, rather than horizontally as the wolf does.