Take the time to determine your ability to run a successful painting business, thoughtfully set up your company, and you can start to earn money doing something you love that can also make others happy. 2. Think about how a painting business will fit into your lifestyle. Consider how having a painting business will fit into your lifestyle. Knowing whether or not the time, emotional, and physical demands of being a painter can work into your life is important if you want to run a successful business.
These painters earned a mean annual wage of $38,000, or $18.27 an hour, working on on residential, commercial and other buildings. About 180 painters worked on smaller items such as furniture and earned a mean annual wage of $31,670. Contractors' Assistants. Many contracting businesses also hire various helpers to work with the painters, performing less-skilled jobs such as supplying tools and cleaning work areas. The BLS estimates there were 9,630 helpers of painters and similar workers employed in the industry, earning $24,780 a year on average.
An important part of the contracting trade is painting. Painting contractors can make an interior space warm and inviting or make a building exterior attractive and able to stand up to the elements. Painters in the contracting industry have a variety of different roles and are paid accordingly. Contractors' Assistants. Many contracting businesses also hire various helpers to work with the painters, performing less-skilled jobs such as supplying tools and cleaning work areas. The BLS estimates there were 9,630 helpers of painters and similar workers employed in the industry, earning $24,780 a year on average.
Write a business plan for your painting company. Start with the purpose of your painting business. List your goals and any products or services you plan to offer your clientele. Describe how your business will differ from the other painting businesses in your area. Research your competition and project your income. Determine how much money you will need to start your new business and how long you can expect to run your business before you hit a break-even point and start to profit from your painting.
Painting has been around for a long time and there will always be a need for more painters. Start an Interior Painting Business. Starting an interior painting business can make good money which can range from 500 dollars per week to thousands of dollars per week depending on what you do with your business. Start up costs for your own interior painting business can easily be done on a shoe string. 
Two types of painters in the contracting industry work with machines rather tha brushes and rollers The 580 coating, painting and spraying machine operators working in the industry earned $31,380 a year on average, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Contractors' Assistants. Many contracting businesses also hire various helpers to work with the painters, performing less-skilled jobs such as supplying tools and cleaning work areas. The BLS estimates there were 9,630 helpers of painters and similar workers employed in the industry, earning $24,780 a year on average.
BONUS #2 - Also included in your order. . . I'll show you the 5 easy steps on how to start getting referrals to the best cash-paying jobs where it's possible to make as much as a $1,000/Day. FACT: you'll want my juicy how to painting business experience for this one-so you can gitter done! Hardly anyone is aware of this opportunity and it NEVER runs dry! I'll also show you how you can make as much as $200 - $500/ Day painting just ceilings alone! Anytime you need help, just Email me and even schedule a time when I can be available by phone to answer any questions you have and to be of help with any problems that may come up.
Determine if a painting business meets your financial needs. Painters can earn on average about $35,000 per year. This amount can change depending on how often and where you work. Only proceed with your plans if the average pay meets your financial needs. 2. Think about how a painting business will fit into your lifestyle. Consider how having a painting business will fit into your lifestyle. Knowing whether or not the time, emotional, and physical demands of being a painter can work into your life is important if you want to run a successful business.
Doing a dozen jobs on their own, they — or you — could make $220 per day painting house numbers on curbs (and yes, that’s after expenses). This wouldn’t be a difficult business to start. You can buy stencils, tape and spray paint and be in business an hour from now for under $30. A friend told me he charged homeowners $20 to paint house numbers on their curbs, and paid college students $10 per hour to do the painting. Some of his employees did 15 jobs each day. My first question, as he explained his business, was why they stuck around for $10 per hour.