Neurology consultants may deal with patients who have multiple sclerosis. Some neurologists specialize in geriatrics, working with elderly patients and their caregivers. Neurology is a medical specialty that focuses on conditions of the brain and other parts of the human nervous system. Doctors with a degree in neurology often work together within a practice to perform neurology consultations. Most patients are referred to neurology consultants by their primary care physicians. 
In different countries, there are different requirements for an individual to legally practice neurosurgery, and there are varying methods through which they must be educated. In most countries, neurosurgeon training requires a minimum period of seven years after graduating from medical school. In the United States, a neurosurgeon must generally complete four years of undergraduate education, four years of medical school, and seven years of residency (PGY-1-7). Most, but not all, residency programs have some component of basic science or clinical research
Dr. Mahmood Hassan is a Consultant Neurosurgeon working in Saudi Arabia since 2007 with background of neurosurgical fellowships in Harvard... 
Welcome to Neurosurgical Consultants, LLP. Neurosurgical Consultants is the leader in providing high-quality, state-of-the-art neurosurgical services to the Tri-State. We are the largest neurosurgical practice in the region with two offices in Evansville, Indiana and an office in Owensboro, Kentucky. Our Neurosurgeons have specialized training in the treatment of complex spine and brain disorders.
These specialized branches co-exist with general neurosurgery in more sophisticated hospitals. To practice advanced specialization within neurosurgery, additional higher fellowship training of one to two years is expected from the neurosurgeon. In most countries, neurosurgeon training requires a minimum period of seven years after graduating from medical school. In the United States, a neurosurgeon must generally complete four years of undergraduate education, four years of medical school, and seven years of residency (PGY-1-7).
Dallas, TX 75230. Dr. Martin Lazar and his team of experts are dedicated to your treatment and recovery. New minimally-invasive techniques offer exciting advances for brain, spine and spinal cord disorders. We have organized our website in four main sections, each with a specific mission. 
Most patients scheduled for a Neurosurgical operation are admitted to the Hospital on the morning of the scheduled operation. Well prior to your scheduled operation you will have the opportunity to visit with your Neurosurgeon and review the clinical condition that has brought you to him. 
Neurosurgery (or neurological surgery) is the medical specialty concerned with the prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation of disorders which affect any portion of the nervous system including the brain, spinal cord, peripheral nerves, and extra-cranial cerebrovascular system. In most countries, neurosurgeon training requires a minimum period of seven years after graduating from medical school. In the United States, a neurosurgeon must generally complete four years of undergraduate education, four years of medical school, and seven years of residency (PGY-1-7).
Neurosurgery. Find out more. General neurosurgery, back pain, sciatica, arm and neck pain, spinal surgery, lumbar and cervical disc degeneration, brain and spine tumours, image guided brain surgery, hydrocephalus, endoscopy, epilepsy surgery, functional neurosurgery, movement disorders, headaches, facial pain. Find out more. General neurosurgery, back pain, sciatica, arm and neck pain, spinal surgery, lumbar and cervical disc degeneration, vascular neurosurgery, brain haemorrhage, aneurysms, arteriovenous malformations, radio surgery, hydrocephalus, neuroendoscopy, headaches, facial pain and trauma.
Neurosurgeons may be Medical Doctors or Doctors of Osteopathic Medicine, and complete a five to six year residency focused on the surgical treatment of neurological conditions. Neurosurgeons are trained in the diagnosis and treatment of disorders involving: 1  Brain. 2  Spine and spinal cord. Both neurosurgeons and orthopedic surgeons may complete fellowship training to do most types of spine surgery, but there are a few types of spine surgery in which one specialty tends to be more qualified than the other, such as: