The Berlin Blockade (1 April 1948 – 12 May 1949) was one of the first major international crises of the Cold War. During the multinational occupation of post–World War II Germany, the Soviet Union blocked the Western Allies ' railway, road, and canal access to the sectors of Berlin under Western control. The Soviets did not disrupt the airlift for fear this might lead to open conflict. By the spring of 1949, the airlift was clearly succeeding, and by April it was delivering more cargo than had previously been transported into the city by rail. On 12 May 1949, the USSR lifted the blockade of West Berlin.
The Berlin Airlift, 1948–1949. At the end of the Second World War, U.S., British, and Soviet military forces divided and occupied Germany. Also divided into occupation zones, Berlin was located far inside Soviet-controlled eastern Germany. The United States, United Kingdom, and France controlled western portions of the city, while Soviet troops controlled the eastern sector.
On May 11, 1949, Moscow lifted the blockade of West Berlin. The Berlin Crisis of 1948–1949 solidified the division of Europe. Shortly before the end of the blockade, the Western Allies created the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). Two weeks after the end of the blockade, the state of West Germany was established, soon followed by the creation of East Germany. Also divided into occupation zones, Berlin was located far inside Soviet-controlled eastern Germany. The United States, United Kingdom, and France controlled western portions of the city, while Soviet troops controlled the eastern sector.
The Origins of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). The fear of Soviet expansion into Western Europe was among the reasons for the formation of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. NATO was also a product of the experiences of the Berlin Airlift. Visit the U.S. State Department page on the origins of NATO for a detailed American perspective complete with pictures of the Marshall Plan and the Berlin Airlift. The U.S. State Department on NATO. The Office of the State Department Historian presents a resource on understanding NATO.
USA decided to airlift goods between West Berlin and West Germany. The causes of the Berlin Blockade and Airlift we the Yalta Conference, the American policy of containment and the growing mistrust and tension between the USA and the USSR. One cause of the Berlin Blockade and Airlift was the Yalta Conference. The Yalta Conference was a conference held by the ‘Big Three’- USA, Britain and the USSR. It was held in Yalta (USSR) in February 1945. This conference was to decide the future of Europe
Primarily, the Berlin Blockade was an episode in the Cold War Stalin was taking over eastern Europe by salami tactics, and America had just adopted the Truman Doctrine. Secondly, America and Russia had different Aims for Germany. Stalin wanted to destroy Germany, and was stripping East Germany of its wealth. Stalin claimed the new currency was an attempt to wreck the East German economy. The main cause of the Berlin Blockade was the Cold War, which was just getting started. Stalin was taking over eastern Europe by salami tactics and Czechoslovakia had just turned Communist (March 1948). On the other side, the USA had just adopted the Truman Doctrine to contain the USSR
The Berlin Blockade and Airlift began on the 23rd of June 1948 and ended on the 12th of May 1949. It was the first major conflict to occur during the Cold War between USA and the USSR. During this conflict Western Berlin who was under the control of the Western Allies was blocked off from the West Germany by the USSR. One cause of the Berlin Blockade and Airlift was the Yalta Conference. The Yalta Conference was a conference held by the ‘Big Three’- USA, Britain and the USSR. It was held in Yalta (USSR) in February 1945. This conference was to decide the future of Europe