Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell that is distinguished from the rest by a lack of granules, and they have a key role in the immune system as they are able to respond to unknown agents. If you wan to know about the normal range of lymphocytes, OneHowTo can explain more. Low lymphocyte counts. This is called lymphopenia, when the number of lymphocytes is below 1300 / ml. Lymphopenia is commonly detected in individuals whose immune system is subjected to immuno suppressive treatments such as Chemotherapy.
Normal lymphocyte count in blood. 1  The normal levels of lymphocytes present in the blood usually range between 1200 and 3200 lymphocytes per milliliter of blood. 2  However, it may be noted that different laboratories may follow different standards of valuing the normal levels of lymphocytes. 1 A low lymphocytes count is also as dangerous a condition as a high lymphocytes count. 2  When the percentage of lymphocytes that form the total number of white blood cells in the human body is lower than fifteen percent, then it signifies low levels of lymphocytes in the body.
The normal range of lymphocytes in the blood is usually between 1200 and 3200 lymphocytes per milliliter of blood. Please note that different medical laboratories have different evaluation standards for finding the normal lymphocyte count. Lymphocytes comprise 15 to 40 percent of the total number of white blood cells in the human body. A decrease or increase in the normal range of lymphocytes can indicate infections or health conditions.
Lymphocytes-A Normal Range. In blood tests, the lymphocyte level can be analysed, with their value will be seen in the CBC section. Its value is calculated per millilitre of blood, the normal range of lymphocytes is between 1300 and 4000 cells / ml. Low lymphocyte counts. This is called lymphopenia, when the number of lymphocytes is below 1300 / ml. Lymphopenia is commonly detected in individuals whose immune system is subjected to immuno suppressive treatments such as Chemotherapy.
The value is usually represented by a percent of WBC (white blood cells) and the range varies according to measurement method, laboratory and other. Some labs accept as normal … values 22-50%, other 16-45%. Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell. The normal values vary  by age with adults averaging absolute lympocyte count of: 1.5-4 X  103 cells/microL. 2 people found this useful.
They play an important role in immunologic reactions. Normal lymphocyte count is in the rage between 16-45% of white blood cells (WBCs). Increased lymphocytes (lymphocytosis) in adults is defined as an absolute lymphocyte count greater than 4,000/mm3. It is necessary to distinguish between absolute and relative lymphocytosis. 
Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell. The normal values vary  by age with adults averaging absolute lympocyte count of: 1.5-4 X  103 cells/microL. The lymphocyte is the main cell of the lymphoid tissue. Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell which produce antibodies to kill any pathogens which invade the body. They a … re small white blood cells which have large nuclei, but no granules.
A number of studies have indicated that B cell and T cell lymphocytes are also instrumental in preventing and controlling the development of dangerous cancerous cells. The lymphocytes form about 15 percent to 40 percent of the total number of white blood cells present in the body. A decrease or increase in the normal levels of lymphocytes is considered as abnormal and usually an indication of the presence of some infections or health conditions. 1 A low lymphocytes count is also as dangerous a condition as a high lymphocytes count. 2  When the percentage of lymphocytes that form the total number of white blood cells in the human body is lower than fifteen percent, then it signifies low levels of lymphocytes
Lymphocytes refer to white blood cells used in the immune system.  The normal range is between 25 and 33 percent. Lymphocytes are a type of white blood cell. The normal values vary  by age with adults averaging absolute lympocyte count of: 1.5-4 X  103 cells/microL. 2 people found this useful.
1 The normal levels of lymphocytes present in the blood usually range between 1200 and 3200 lymphocytes per milliliter of blood. 2  However, it may be noted that different laboratories may follow different standards of valuing the normal levels of lymphocytes. 1 A low lymphocytes count is also as dangerous a condition as a high lymphocytes count. 2  When the percentage of lymphocytes that form the total number of white blood cells in the human body is lower than fifteen percent, then it signifies low levels of lymphocytes in the body.