Lactobacillus acidophilus (New Latin 'acid-loving milk-bacterium') is a species of gram positive bacteria in the genus Lactobacillus. L. acidophilus is a homofermentative, microaerophilic species, fermenting sugars into lactic acid, and grows readily at rather low pH values (below pH 5.0) and has an optimum growth temperature of around 37 °C (99 °F).
Eating yogurt is often recommended for people who are lactose intolerant. This is because yogurt has less lactose than milk and other dairy products. Lactobacillus acidophilus is one of the probiotics in yogurt that’s responsible for “pre-digesting” the lactose, which makes it easier to digest. To find out if a yogurt brand has Lactobacillus acidophilus, look for the bacteria name in the ingredient list.
Uses. This product contains the bacteria Lactobacillus acidophilus, which is naturally found in the stomach / intestines. Some conditions (such as antibiotic use) can cause problems with the normal balance of bacteria in the stomach/intestines, resulting in diarrhea.
Not all types of bacteria are bad for you. In fact, your body needs a certain amount of bacteria to function properly. Lactobacillus acidophilus is a form of bacteria that’s found naturally in the body, usually in the intestines, mouth, or female genitals. It’s considered beneficial to human health because the bacteria doesn’t cause disease. Lactobacillus acidophilus is one of the probiotics in yogurt that’s responsible for “pre-digesting” the lactose, which makes it easier to digest. To find out if a yogurt brand has Lactobacillus acidophilus, look for the bacteria name in the ingredient list.
Lactobacillus is a bacteria that exists naturally in the body, primarily in the intestines and the vagina. Lactobacillus helps maintain an acidic environment in the body, which can prevent the growth of harmful bacteria. Lactobacillus has been used as a probiotic, or friendly bacteria.. Acidophilus and bulgaricus (helveticus) are two different types of lactobacillus that are combined in this product.
Lactobacillus acidophilus is a member of the Lactobacillus genus of bacteria. These bacteria can be found in the mouth, intestine, and vagina. L. acidophilus is thought to benefit health, since it produces vitamin K and lactase. However, L. acidophilus cannot make many other vitamins and amino acids. There is good evidence for the use of L. acidophilus in treating vaginal infections. However, there is unclear evidence for other medicinal uses of L. acidophilus, such as in irritable bowel syndrome, brain disorders, asthma, high cholesterol, lactose digestion, or diarrhea.
Overview. Lactobacillus acidophilus (L. acidophilus) is the most commonly used probiotic, or good bacteria. Many healthy bacteria live in the intestines and vagina where they protect against the bad bacteria that cause disease. They do this in a couple of ways. 
L. acidophilus is one of the most commonly used probiotics, microorganisms that are used to promote health. Probiotics are different from prebiotics, which are complex sugars that may support the growth of good bacteria in the intestinal tract. There is good evidence for the use of L. acidophilus in treating vaginal infections. However, there is unclear evidence for other medicinal uses of L. acidophilus, such as in irritable bowel syndrome, brain disorders, asthma, high cholesterol, lactose digestion, or diarrhea.