bacteriophage. A bacteriophage is a type of virus that infects bacteria. In fact, the word bacteriophage literally means bacteria eater, because bacteriophages destroy their host cells. All bacteriophages are composed of a nucleic acid molecule that is surrounded by a protein structure. Following infection, the bacteriophage hijacks the bacterium's cellular machinery to prevent it from producing bacterial components and instead forces the cell to produce viral components. Eventually, new bacteriophages assemble and burst out of the bacterium in a process called lysis.
4. it's a temperate phage: being either lytic or lysogenic definitions you should know: prophage: a phage DNA integrated as a part of a bacterial chromosome. lytic pathway: the type of bacteriophage infection involving phage multiplication (± 100) and release after lysis of the host cell.. plan: 1. a phage (bacteriophage) is a bacterial virus 2. lambda phage has a head and tail 3. lambda phage DNA is either linear, circular, or concatenated. 4. it's a temperate phage: being either lytic or lysogenic. definitions you should know: prophage: a phage DNA integrated as a part of a bacterial chromosome
When a temperate phage undergoes the lytic cycle, it becomes a virulent phage. The infected cell and its membrane disintegrate as the viral DNA, which is considered a separate molecule from the bacterial cell, replicates separately from the DNA of the host bacteria, eventually overwhelming it. In order to infect a host cell, the bacteriophage attaches itself to the bacteria’s cell wall, specifically on a receptor found on the bacteria’s surface. Once it becomes tightly bound to the cell, the bacterial virus injects its genetic material (its nucleic acid) into the host cell.
A phage is a virus that attacks bacteria. Phages are among the best known of viruses because of the ease of studying bacterial systems. Many phages are among the most structurally complex viruses known. The T2 phage is typical one common group of phages. The body of the virus, called a capsid, is a complex structure with a head containing DNA and a tail apparatus that attaches to receptors on the surface of the bacterial host. T2 and all the other T phages that attack E. coli have a lytic life cycle.
There are some limitations in the use of phages to treat bacterial infections. First, phages are usually very specific as to which bacteria they will infect. This is good in that the phage will be selective and target that particular bacteria. This is bad in that one has to have the particular phage that attacks that bacteria. Another limitation is that one has to know which bacteria is the infectious agent in order to use the proper virus. This information is not always known, especially at the beginning of the infection.
A bacteriophage attaches itself to a susceptible bacterium and infects the host cell. Following infection, the bacteriophage hijacks the bacterium's cellular machinery to prevent it from producing bacterial components and instead forces the cell to produce viral components. Eventually, new bacteriophages assemble and burst out of the bacterium in a process called lysis.
It is a hollow tube through which the nucleic acid passes through when the bacteriophage infects a host cell. Some of the more complex phages such as T4 have a tail with a base plate as well as one or more tail fibers that aid the phage in attaching itself to a bacterial cell. In order to infect a host cell, the bacteriophage attaches itself to the bacteria’s cell wall, specifically on a receptor found on the bacteria’s surface. Once it becomes tightly bound to the cell, the bacterial virus injects its genetic material (its nucleic acid) into the
When a temperate phage undergoes the lytic cycle, it becomes a virulent phage. The infected cell and its membrane disintegrate as the viral DNA, which is considered a separate molecule from the bacterial cell, replicates separately from the DNA of the host bacteria, eventually overwhelming it. A bacteriophage is a kind of virus that can infect and replicate itself inside bacterial cells. The virus has a protein-encapsulated DNA or RNA genome and can have simple or complex anatomies. There are many types of bacteriophages including M13, T phage, lambda phage, MS2, G4, and Phix174