Demand is measured in kilowatts (kW). Consumers are billed according to kW of demand for their rate. To illustrate how demand charge can affect an electric bill, let's look at two simple examples: Running a 20 kW load for one hour would result in usage of 20 kilowatt hours (kWh) and accrue a demand charge of 20 kW.
The demand charge will be: ($7.37/kW)(100 W)(kW/1000 W) = $0.74. The energy charge for using a 100-watt light bulb during any 15-minute period of the month is: ($0.033/kWh)(100 W)(kW/1000W)(15 min) (1 hour/60 min) = $0.00083. The total of all charges on MTDC s monthly electric bill based on kilowatt hours is 3.3 cents per kilowatt hour. All costs based on kilowatts total $7.37 per kilowatt. The demand interval is 15 minutes.
How Demand Billing Works. There are two energy-related charges in demand billing. One is for the amount of electricity used during the entire billing period-this is the energy charge (measured in kwhrs). Relating to the previous example, this would be-equivalent to the gallons of water used. [kWhrs / (# of days in billing period x 24 hrs x billable demand [kw]) x 100 = % LF]. For example, if the customer used electricity at the maximum rate for each and every 30-minute period in the billing period, the resulting load factor would be 100%.
Some utilities have ratchet charges where the highest demand or consumption that occurs in one year will determine demand or energy charges for the next year. Even so, it is usually possible to summarize your bill into a demand charge (dollars per kilowatt) and an energy charge (dollars per kilowatt hour). The total of all charges on MTDC s monthly electric bill based on kilowatt hours is 3.3 cents per kilowatt hour. All costs based on kilowatts total $7.37 per kilowatt. The demand interval is 15 minutes.
ELECTRIC ENERGY AND DEMAND Two main types of charges appear on your electric bill. The energy component of your bill measures the quantity of electricity supplied in kilowatt-hours (kWh). The demand component of your bill measures the power supplied, in kilowatts (kW). One is actual demand (measured by the meter) and the other is billing demand. Your utility bill is based on billing demand, which may not be the same as actual demand for the billing period. Billing demand is based on metered voltage versus delivered voltage.
Demand = KW Consumption = KWH The difference between demand (KW) and consumption (KWH) is vital to your choices in reducing your energy costs. A simple way to see the difference between demand and consumption is by considering two examples. LIGHTING EXAMPLE: One 100-watt light bulb burning for 10 hours consumes 1,000 watt-hours. or 1 kWh.
Consumption = KWH. The difference between demand (KW) and consumption (KWH) is vital to your choices in reducing your energy costs. A simple way to see the difference between demand and consumption is by considering two examples. LIGHTING EXAMPLE: One 100-watt light bulb burning for 10 hours consumes 1,000 watt-hours. or 1 kWh
Electric demand refers to the maximum amount of electrical energy that is being consumed at a given time. It is measured in both kilowatts and kilovolt amperes, depending on the rate tariff. Electrical Utilities typically charge commercial and industrial customers for both consumption (kWh) and Demand (kWd or kVa). As everyone knows, electric rates vary by state and utility company. Utilities have different tariffs for different types of customers (users).
The other charge is for the greatest amount of electric power used in any one-half hour during the billing period-this is the demand charge (measured in kW or kilowatts of demand). Again, relating to the previous example, this would be equivalent to the rate of water used (measured in gallons per hour). [kWhrs / (# of days in billing period x 24 hrs x billable demand [kw]) x 100 = % LF]. For example, if the customer used electricity at the maximum rate for each and every 30-minute period in the billing period, the resulting load factor would be 100%.
Demand bills have two components: the total amount of electricity used (the energy charge), and the highest amount used within a 15-minute interval at any time during the customer’s billing period (the demand charge). Demand billing is a standard practice used throughout North America to fairly recover costs from some business customers who use more than a specified amount of electricity during peak periods.