The Australian Aboriginal Flag was designed by artist Harold Thomas and first flown at Victoria Square in Adelaide, South Australia, on National Aborigines Day, 12 July 1971. It became the official flag for the Aboriginal Tent Embassy in Canberra after it was first flown there in 1972. In the same year it was recognised by the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Commission (ATSIC) and given equal prominence with the Australian Aboriginal Flag. In July 1995 the Australian Government recognised it, with the Australian Aboriginal Flag, as an official ‘Flag of Australia’ under the Flags Act 1953.
History and significance of the Aboriginal flag The Aboriginal flag is an official flag of Australia and was recognised under Federal legislation in July 1995. Designed by Aboriginal Elder Harold Thomas in 1971, this flag symbolises Aboriginal identity. The top half of the flag is black to represent the Aboriginal people. The red in the lower half represents the red earth (the relationship to the land) and the red ochre used in Aboriginal ceremonies. The circle of yellow represents the sun (giver of life) and yellow ochre.
The Australian Aboriginal Flag is a flag that represents Aboriginal Australians. It is one of the official  Flags of Australia , and holds special legal and political status, but it is not the  Australian National Flag . The flag was originally designed for the land rights movement, and it became a symbol of the Aboriginal people of Australia.
Flag Adopted: 4 July 1995 (in use since 12 July 1971). Flag Proportion: 2:3. The Aboriginal Flag was designed by Harold Thomas, an artist and an Aboriginal, in 1971. The flag was designed to be an eye-catching rallying symbol for the Aboriginal people and a symbol of their race and identity. The black represents the Aboriginal people, the red the earth and their spiritual relationship to the land, and the yellow the sun, the giver of life. In the late 1960s, Aborigines stepped up their campaign for indigenous land rights through protest marches, demonstrations, banners and posters.
The Aboriginal flag should be flown or displayed with the black at the top and the red at the bottom. Any questions on how and when to display the Australian Aboriginal Flag should be directed to the Commonwealth Flag Officer in the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet. In the same year it was recognised by the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Commission (ATSIC) and given equal prominence with the Australian Aboriginal Flag. In July 1995 the Australian Government recognised it, with the Australian Aboriginal Flag, as an official ‘Flag of Australia’ under the Flags Act 1953.
The National Indigenous Advisory Committee campaigned for the Aboriginal flag to be flown at Stadium Australia during the 2000 Summer Olympics. SOCOG announced that the Aboriginal flag would be flown at Olympic venues. The flag was originally designed for the land rights movement, and it became a symbol of the Aboriginal people of Australia.
The Australian Army does not have a separate flag, but uses the Australian National Flag. The Australian Aboriginal flag and the Torres Strait Islanders flag in 1995 were proclaimed to be Flags of Australia under the Flags Act 1953. The flag is flown by warships from the ensign staff at the stern. The blue Australian national flag is flown on the jack-staff at the bow, when vessels are in port. Prior to 1967, the RAN used the British White Ensign. The RAAF Ensign-the official flag of the Royal Australian Air Force.
The Aboriginal flag is sometimes substituted for the Union Flag in the canton of Australia's flag in proposed new Australian flag designs. Such flags have been presented in science fiction as futuristic Australian flags, as in the film Event Horizon, where it was worn by Sam Neill. The flag was originally designed for the land rights movement, and it became a symbol of the Aboriginal people of Australia.
The Australian Aboriginal Flag was designed in 1971 by Aboriginal artist Harold Thomas, who is descended from the Luritja people of Central Australia and holds intellectual property rights to the flag's design. The flag was originally designed for the land rights movement, and it became a symbol of the Aboriginal people of Australia.
2 Guidelines for flying the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander flags Queensland Health 2011 History and significance of the Torres Strait Islander flag The Torres Strait Islander flag is an official flag of Australia and was recognised under Federal legislation in July 1995. The top half of the flag is black to represent the Aboriginal people. The red in the lower half represents the red earth (the relationship to the land) and the red ochre used in Aboriginal ceremonies. The circle of yellow represents the sun (giver of life) and yellow ochre.