There are two types of digital mucous cysts: one type is associated with degenerative changes in the distal interphalangeal joint, and the second type is independent of the joint and arises from metabolic derangement of fibroblasts that produce large quantities of hyaluronic acid. There are two types of digital mucous cysts. 1, 4, 9 One type is associated with degenerative changes in the distal interphalangeal joint and looks similar to ganglia and synovial cysts.
A digital myxoid cyst (sometimes called a mucous cyst) is an entirely benign swelling that occurs on the fingers or, sometimes, the toes. Digital myxoid cysts are not catching and not a sign of infection. Furthermore, they are not cancerous and will not develop into skin cancer. 
Digital mucous cysts are solitary, clear, or flesh-colored nodules that develop on the dorsal digits between the distal interphalangeal joint and the proximal nail fold. There are two types of digital mucous cysts. 1, 4, 9 One type is associated with degenerative changes in the distal interphalangeal joint and looks similar to ganglia and synovial cysts.
Digital Mucous Cysts. These small fluid filled cysts appear at the base of the fingernail or on the end joint of the finger. Caused by joint synovitis or arthritis, this fluid is an eruption of extra fluid in the joint. Learn how IBJI can help with arthritis treatment and the conditions associated with it.
A digital mucous cyst refers to a small benign cyst that is located towards the ends of the fingers or under the nail bed. These cysts involve the distal joints of the fingers and can sometimes involve the toes. Digital mucous cysts are a fairly common condition and form a part of a group of conditions called ganglia. There does not appear to be a clear cause for digital mucous cysts. It is believed that they occur due to connective tissue degeneration along with osteoarthritis of the joints in the hand. Some tumors are also believed to cause this condition.
Background. Digital mucous cysts (DMCs) are benign ganglion cysts of the digits, typically located at the distal interphalangeal (DIP) joints or in the proximal nail fold. They usually occur on the hands, although they have also been noted on the toes. Age. Digital mucous cysts usually occur in the fifth to seventh decades, yet they may be seen as early as the teenage years or among the elderly population. The mean age of onset is 60 years. One report describes a case in association with cutaneous mucinosis of infancy.
A digital mucous cyst is a common, benign lesion that presents as a firm nodule on the fingers or toes. The lesions are usually not painful and are found near the distal joints. 
Digital mucous cyst is a ganglion cyst that arises from the end finger knuckle (the distal interphalangeal joint) or nail matrix, and appears on the back of the fingertip 1. Etymology (from Greek): digitus = finger; mucous refers to a thick substance in the cyst; cyst = enclosed pouch 6. 