The FDA permits foods that contain at least 51% whole grains by weight (and are also low in fat, saturated fat, and cholesterol) to display a health claim stating consumption is linked to lower risk of heart disease and certain cancers. The amount of wheat bran needed for protection from other cancers is still unknown, but based on the health benefits of this food, it may be wise, if you are not sensitive to wheat or gluten, to include several servings of whole wheat grain foods such as bread, pasta, and bran cereals every day in your diet.
5 Types of Foods with Whole Grain. There are many healthy benefits of incorporating whole grain foods into your diet. Whole grain foods help lower the risk of coronary heart disease, stroke, obesity, and diabetes. Contrary to popular belief, foods that have whole grain do not add to weight gain. Wheat pasta tastes great and is even better for your health. Below is a list of different types of whole grain foods that you can pick up next time you are going shopping. Cereal. 1  Health Valley Organic Amaranth Flakes.
Brown rice is not a commonly allergenic food and is not known to contain measurable amounts of oxalates or purines. In fact, the hypoallergenic (low-allergy) nature of whole grain, organic brown rice makes it a grain alternative commonly recommended by healthcare practitioners. The FDA permits foods that contain at least 51% whole grains by weight (and are also low in fat, saturated fat, and cholesterol) to display a health claim stating consumption is linked to lower risk of heart disease and certain cancers.
Whole foods can be divided into several categories: fruits, vegetables, legumes, nuts, seeds, and grains. Examples of whole fruits and vegetables include apples, peaches, bananas, grapes, mangoes, figs, lemons, dandelion greens, kale, carrots, tomatoes, squash, eggplant, yams, and others. Legumes are whole foods that contain high amounts of protein and very little fat, and they include chickpeas, black beans, soya beans, kidney beans, lima beans, split peas, and lentils. Nuts and seeds that are considered whole foods are not salted or artificially flavored.
Another way to incorporate whole grain into your diet is to cook with wheat pastas. Wheat pasta tastes great and is even better for your health. Below is a list of different types of whole grain foods that you can pick up next time you are going shopping. Cereal. 1  Health Valley Organic Amaranth Flakes.
Eating more whole grains is an easy way to add a layer of  health insurance  to your life. Whole grains are packed with nutrients, including protein, fiber, B vitamins, antioxidants, and trace minerals (iron, zinc, copper, and magnesium). A diet rich in whole grains has been shown to reduce the risk of heart disease, type 2 diabetes, obesity, and some forms of cancer. 
Some foods only contain a small amount of whole grain but will say it contains whole grain on the front of the package. For all cereals and grains, read the ingredient list and look for the following sources of whole grains as the first ingredient: 1  Bulgur (cracked wheat). 2  Whole wheat flour. 3  Whole oats/oatmeal. They are missing many of the nutrients found in whole wheat flour. Examples of whole grain wheat products include 100% whole wheat bread, pasta, tortillas, and crackers. But don’t stop there! There are many whole grains to choose from.
A whole grain is a cereal grain that contains the germ, endosperm, and bran, in contrast to refined grains, which retain only the endosperm. Contents. 
Some of the types of grains that are whole grains include brown rice, amaranth, corn, whole cornmeal, hulled barley, rolled oats, oat groats, whole wheat, whole rye, millet, and popcorn. Legumes are whole foods that contain high amounts of protein and very little fat, and they include chickpeas, black beans, soya beans, kidney beans, lima beans, split peas, and lentils. Nuts and seeds that are considered whole foods are not salted or artificially flavored.