For those with a taste or tolerance for bitter flavor, a small melon can be eaten as food or up to 50 ml of fresh juice can be drunk per day. An option for those who do not care for the bitter taste are bitter melon tinctures, of which 5 ml is generally taken two to three times per day.
Preparing Bitter Melon. 1  Bitter melon does not have to be peeled. 2  Cut in half lengthwise, then use a spoon to scoop out the seeds and scrape off the inner white pith. 3  Slice crosswise at a slight angle to ¼-inch thickness, then place in a bowl.
Bitter gourd (balsam pear/ bitter melon) is a young, tender, edible fruit-pod in the Momordica genus of climbing vines. Although its bitter taste might turn some people away from it, in-fact, it really can sweeten your health through virtue of its disease preventing and health promoting phyto chemical compounds.
Bitter melon, also known as bitter gourd or karela (in India), is a unique vegetable-fruit that can be used as food or medicine. It is the edible part of the plant Momordica Charantia, which is a vine of the Cucurbitaceae family and is considered the most bitter among all fruits and vegetables.
Bitter melon, or Goya, is commonly used for beneficial health reasons. Bitter melon is also referred to as bitter gourd, Karela, or Balsam Pear. The melon has an extremely bitter taste, but it is a helpful food. Bitter melon is commonly added to stir-fry, or may be enjoyed stuffed.
Preparing Bitter Melon. 1  Bitter melon does not have to be peeled. 2  Just rinse well to remove any dirt and pat dry. 3  Cut in half lengthwise, then use a spoon to scoop out the seeds and scrape off the inner white pith. 4  Slice crosswise at a slight angle to ¼-inch thickness, then place in a bowl.
In this article. Bitter melon is a plant that grows in parts of Africa, Asia, the Caribbean, and South America. It grows a fruit that looks like a cucumber. People use bitter melon as both a food and a traditional medicine.
Sometimes it can take awhile to grow accustomed to the taste of Bitter Melon. If you’d like to develop a taste for this bitter gourd, make sure that you try it cooked the first few times you try it. Raw Bitter Melon can be a challenge for even the most seasoned palates.