Peppermint is a cross between Mentha aquatica (Water Mint) and Mentha spicata (Spearmint). Peppermint seeds are rare and, when they do occur, they usually do not germinate. If a seed did sprout it would most likely be a less desirable form of mint. Although Variegated Peppermint is a slower growing plant than Peppermint, these two do grow similarly. These mints have two phases of growth. The first occurs in early spring as it emerges from dormancy and sends stalks upward. These stems grow tall and will become flower spikes.
Common name: Garden Phlox. An exciting new dwarf garden phlox with amazing, candy striped flowers. Long summer afternoons and evenings are meant to be enjoyed, and with the arrival of Phlox paniculata ‘Peppermint Twist’ , this awesome new garden phlox, they just became a whole lot more colorful and enjoyable. 
Mentha piperita f. citrata 'Orange', also called bergamot mint, develops bright green leaves lightly tinged with red. The foliage has a lovely citrus fragrance and flavor that makes it a good addition to a wide range of dishes. It grows 3 feet tall and spreads several feet wide. Mint quickly scrambles to cover garden real estate; tuck mint where you don't mind its wandering ways, or corral its rambles by planting it in a raised bed or a pot sunk into soil. Plants readily cross-pollinate; keep your patch pure by planting mixed varieties as far apart as possible.
Peppermint is a plant. The leaf and oil are used as medicine. Peppermint is used for the common cold, cough, inflammation of the mouth and throat, sinus infections, and respiratory infections. 
The plant flowers from mid to late summer and are purple in colour. The leaves and the flowering tops of the peppermint are used, and they are harvested as soon as the flowers begin to open so that they can be dried. Peppermint is a hybrid mint variety of spearmint and watermint. • Peppermint extract is made from pure peppermint oil whereas mint extract can be derived from any number of, or combination of, culinary mint plants.
How to Harvest Mint. Cut the leaves and flower tops when the mint plants start to bloom. Use fresh leaves immediately, or freeze them to retain their bright color. To air-dry mint, hang the stems upside down in small bundles or spread them loosely in a small tray. 
Peppermint (Mentha × piperita, also known as M. balsamea Willd. ) is a hybrid mint, a cross between watermint and spearmint. The plant, indigenous to Europe and the Middle East, is now widespread in cultivation in many regions of the world. It is found wild occasionally with its parent species. Peppermint oil may also act as a carminative, cholagogue, antibacterial, and secretolytic, and it has a cooling action. Externally, peppermint oil has been used for muscle pain and nerve pain.
How to Use Peppermint Plant. You can keep a peppermint planting simply for its delightful saw-toothed leaves and delicate flowers or for the spicy fragrance released when the leaves are crushed between your fingers. However, once you learn to use the peppermint plant for medicinal purposes, you may become an even greater fan.
While peppermint leaves are available throughout the year, they are especially good in warm weather when they can give a burst of cool flavor to a summery salad or beverage. Peppermint has greenish-purple lance-shaped leaves while the rounder leaves of spearmint are more of a grayish green color. Description. Mint is the glorious plant that gives the candy of the same name its cool burst of flavor. While there are about 25 different species of mints, peppermint is actually a natural hybrid cross between Mentha aquatica (water mint) and Mentha spicata (spearmint).
For the most intense flavor, clip topmost mint leaves before flowers form. You can also gather leaves at any point during the growing season. Frequent harvests cause plants to branch and become bushy, so cut growing tips of plants often. Mint quickly scrambles to cover garden real estate; tuck mint where you don't mind its wandering ways, or corral its rambles by planting it in a raised bed or a pot sunk into soil. Plants readily cross-pollinate; keep your patch pure by planting mixed varieties as far apart as possible.