Noun. 1. pathos-a quality that arouses emotions (especially pity or sorrow); the film captured all the pathos of their situation. poignancy. quality-an essential and distinguishing attribute of something or someone; the quality of mercy is not strained--Shakespeare. A quality, as of an experience or a work of art, that arouses feelings of pity, sympathy, tenderness, or sorrow. 2. The feeling, as of sympathy or pity, so aroused.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: pathos (Noun). That quality or property of anything which touches the feelings or excites emotions and passions, esp., that which awakens tender emotions, such as pity, sorrow, and the like; contagious warmth of feeling, action, or expression; pathetic quality. Pathos (noun). that quality or property of anything which touches the feelings or excites emotions and passions, esp., that which awakens tender emotions, such as pity, sorrow, and the like; contagious warmth of feeling, action, or expression; pathetic quality; as, the pathos of a picture, of a poem, or of a cry.
Pathos is a quality of an experience in life or a work of art that stirs up emotions of pity, sympathy and sorrow. Pathos can be expressed through words, pictures or even with gestures of the body. Pathos is an important tool of persuasion in arguments. 
Evoking of tenderness, pity, or sorrow. In rhetoric, pathos is an appeal to emotions as opposed to logic. No. Pathos is an appeal to the audience's emotions. Logos is an appeal to the audience's logic and ethos is an appeal to the speaker's character ie.
No. Pathos means emotional appeal, as opposed to logos (logic), or ethos (ethics). Saying something is not fair would be an example of pathos, while saying something is illega … l or goes against tradition would be an example of ethos, and saying something makes no sense would be an example of logos. No. Pathos is an appeal to the audience's emotions. Logos is an appeal to the audience's logic and ethos is an appeal to the speaker's character ie.
• PATHOS (noun). The noun PATHOS has 3 senses: 1. a quality that arouses emotions (especially pity or sorrow). 2. a feeling of sympathy and sorrow for the misfortunes of others. 3. a style that has the power to evoke feelings. Familiarity information: PATHOS used as a noun is uncommon.
Ethos (/ˈiːθɒs/ or US /ˈiːθoʊs/) is a Greek word meaning  character  that is used to describe the guiding beliefs or ideals that characterize a community, nation, or ideology. The Greeks also used this word to refer to the power of music to influence its hearer's emotions, behaviors, and even morals. Ethos (ἦθος, ἔθος, plurals: ethe (ἤθη), ethea (ἤθεα)) is a Greek word originally meaning accustomed place (as in ἤθεα ἵππων the habitats of horses, Iliad 6.511, 15.268), custom, habit, equivalent to Latin mores. Ethos forms the root of ethikos (ἠθικός), meaning moral, showing moral character.
Ethos, Pathos, and Logos are modes of persuasion used to convince audiences. They are also referred to as the three artistic proofs (Aristotle coined the terms), and are all represented by Greek words. Ethos or the ethical appeal, means to convince an audience of the author’s credibility or character. An author would use ethos to show to his audience that he is a credible source and is worth listening to. Ethos is the Greek word for “character.” The word “ethic” is derived from ethos.
Pathos or the emotional appeal, means to persuade an audience by appealing to their emotions. Authors use pathos to invoke sympathy from an audience; to make the audience feel what what the author wants them to feel. A common use of pathos would be to draw pity from an audience. Ethos or the ethical appeal, means to convince an audience of the author’s credibility or character. An author would use ethos to show to his audience that he is a credible source and is worth listening to. Ethos is the Greek word for “character.” The word “ethic” is derived from ethos.