Full Definition of ELEGY. 1. : a poem in elegiac couplets. 2. a: a song or poem expressing sorrow or lamentation especially for one who is dead b: something (as a speech) resembling such a song or poem. 3. a: a pensive or reflective poem that is usually nostalgic or melancholy b: a short pensive musical composition. 
Elegy Definition. Elegy is a form of literature which can be defined as a poem or song in the form of elegiac couplets, written in honor of someone deceased. It typically laments or mourns the death of the individual. 
Pastoral Elegy-Definition of Literary Term. The pastoral is the form of poetry that deals with the urban poets’ nostalgic image of the peace and simplicity of the life of shepherds and other rural folk in an idealized natural setting. An elegy is a poem on the death of someone. And pastoral suggest that the elegy is related to 'shepherd', and rustic life. Pastoral elegies are poems in which the poet speaks in the guise of a shepherd in a peaceful landscape and expresses his grief on the death of another shepherd.
Definition of Elegy. An elegy is a mournful poem, usually written in remembrance of a lost one for a funeral or as a lament. An elegy tells the traffic story of an individual, or an individual’s loss, rather than the collective story of a people, which can be found in epic poetry. Significance of Elegy in Literature. The definition of elegy as we know it now only came about in the sixteenth century. In ancient Greece, an elegy was any poem written in elegiac couplets, and could deal with any subject matter, including love and battle, along with death.
Definition of Ode. An ode is a form of poetry such as sonnet or elegy, etc. Ode is a literary technique that is lyrical in nature, but not very lengthy. You have often read odes in which poets praise people, natural scenes, and abstract ideas. Ode is derived from a Greek word aeidein, which means to chant or sing
Elegy is a form of poetry natural to the reflective mind. It may treat of any subject, but it must treat of no subject for itself; but always and exclusively with reference to the poet. As he will feel regret for the past or desire for the future, so sorrow and love became the principal themes of the elegy. 
Great Literary Term dictionary if you're searching for the definition of Elegy. This example of the Elegy Literary Term definition plays a major part in the study of poems, poetry and Literary works. Increase your understanding of the definition of the Elegy English Literary Term. The literary term dictionary provides examples and the definition of all the basic literary terms. Hope you had fun reading the definition of this Literary Term! Elegy-Literary Term Definition.
Save. elegy /ˈɛləʤi/ noun. plural elegies. elegy. /ˈɛləʤi/. noun. plural elegies. Learner's definition of ELEGY. [count] literary. : a sad poem or song: a poem or song that expresses sorrow for someone who is dead — compare eulogy. 