Pictionary (pronunciation: /ˈpɪkʃənᵊri/ , US /ˈpɪkʃəˌnɛri/) is a guessing word game invented by Robert Angel with graphic design by Gary Everson and first published in 1985 by Angel Games Inc. The team chooses one person to begin drawing; this position rotates with each word. The drawer chooses a card out of a deck of special Pictionary cards and tries to draw pictures which suggest the word printed on the card.
The board game Pictionary is fun to play with a group of three or more people. The game includes a game board, four playing pieces and category cards, a one minute sand timer and a die. It helps to have four drawing pads and pencils, but you can use any type of paper and pencils or even small dry-erase boards and markers. Understanding how to play Pictionary is easy once you learn how to set up the game and how to handle special situations, such as the “All Play” category.
Set up the game. Place the game board and deck of word cards in the center of the group. Place a playing piece on the starting square of the Pictionary game board to represent each team. Since the starting space is labeled (P), each team will draw the person, place or animal category first. It helps to have four drawing pads and pencils, but you can use any type of paper and pencils or even small dry-erase boards and markers. Understanding how to play Pictionary is easy once you learn how to set up the game and how to handle special situations, such as the “All Play” category.
Classroom Pictionary Activity. Pictionary is a great game that is perfect for adapting into a classroom English activity. There are a number of different ways to play but the following is what worked best for me and my ESL classes in Japan.
When it comes to word games and guessing games, Pictionary is one of the top fun games for game night. It's a terrific family game for all ages, so it's among the best games for kids, too. Select a card, then race against the clock to draw a picture that clues your team in on the word on your card. 
Pictionary is a multimedial, picture dictionary. There are about 200 words translated into 6 languages which are English, Czech, German, Finnish, Spanish and French. These words are divided into 12 categories. Each phrase is completed with a picture or an animation. 1 However the Pictionary allows you to learn more languages at the same time. 2  With a plenty of pictures, animations and audio-records learning of the language more attractive. 3  You can hear correct pronunciation at once and pictures clearly show the true meaning of the words. 4  The Pictionary is for 6-year-old children.
Pictionary is a guessing word game invented by Robert Angel with graphic design by Gary Everson and first published in 1985 by Angel Games Inc. Hasbro has been the publisher since 1994 after acquiring the games business of Western Publishing. 
Not suitable for children under 3 years. The Pictionary Board Game has been long beloved for its quick sketches and hilarious guesses, and now it features a new board for faster game play. There are two levels of clues so that everyone can play! Pictionary Board Game: 1  Designed for 3 or more players. 
Objective [edit]. Each team moves a piece on a game board formed by a sequence of squares. Each square has a letter or shape identifying the type of picture to be drawn on it. The objective is to be the first team to reach the last space on the board. The team chooses one person to begin drawing; this position rotates with each word. The drawer chooses a card out of a deck of special Pictionary cards and tries to draw pictures which suggest the word printed on the card.
To play Pictionary, you'll need two to four teams, each of two to four players. The game set consists of a gameboard, word cards, category cards, playing pieces, a set of drawing pads and pencils, a one-minute timer, and a die. Each picturist now tries to draw the word listed in the All Play entry on the word card. The picturist may not use any words or gestures while drawing, and may not write anything on the drawing pad. The first team to have one of its players guess the word correctly wins the round.