To become a pediatrician you need: 4 year college degree 4 year medical degree 3+ years of pediatric residency For a minimum of 11 years of training after high school. There are a few programs that combine college an … d medical school to  6 or 7 years (depending on the program) instead of the 8 years.   A lot of school, but if it is your passion, well worth it!! You  need a medical degree, plus a residency in pediatrics.
How long do you have to stay in school to be a pediatrician? To become a pediatrician you need: 4 year college degree 4 year medical school degree 3-4 years of an accredited residency program For a combined total of 11-12 years … of training after the completion of high school. To become a pediatrician you need: 4 years of college 4 years of medical school 3-4 years of residency So 11-12 years after high school is needed to become a pediatrician, at … a minimum. Many have more
Education General-As a Pediatrician, you will ALWAYS be learning! After high school, you need 4 years of undergraduate courses at a college or university (which will get you a BS, BA, or other Bachelor's degree). After completing college, you will need to attend 4 years of Medical School (which will get you an MD or DO degree). After this, you are a general doctor. Most of the time, these new doctors go on to learn a specialty in medicine, such as pediatrics. 
In general, there is 4 years of college, followed by 4 years of  medical school, followed by 3 to 5 years of residency.   There are a few programs that combine college an … d medical school to  6 or 7 years (depending on the program) instead of the 8 years.   A lot of school, but if it is your passion, well worth it!! You  need a medical degree, plus a residency in pediatrics.
To become a pediatrician you need: 4 years of college 4 years of medical school 3-4 years of residency So 11-12 years after high school is needed to become a pediatrician, at … a minimum. Many have more. There are a few programs that combine college an … d medical school to  6 or 7 years (depending on the program) instead of the 8 years.   A lot of school, but if it is your passion, well worth it!! You  need a medical degree, plus a residency in pediatrics.
To become a pediatrician you need: 4 year college degree 4 year medical degree 3+ years of pediatric residency For a minimum of 11 years of training after high school. To become a pediatrician you need: 4 years of college 4 years of medical school 3-4 years of residency So 11-12 years after high school is needed to become a pediatrician, at … a minimum. Many have more
Then, you will again take and pass another board exam relevant to your field of specialization. If you want to know how long does it take to become a pediatrician, just sum up all the years you are in school. This is simply 4 years undergraduate plus 4 years in medical school plus 3 years in residency and specialization, which equals 11 long years of hard but rewarding work. 1  Email. 
In general, there is 4 years of college, followed by 4 years of medical school, followed by 3 to 5 years of residency. There are a few programs that combine college and medical school to 6 or 7 years (depending on the program) instead of the 8 years. To become a pediatrician you need: 4 years of college 4 years of medical school 3-4 years of residency So 11-12 years after high school is needed to become a pediatrician, at … a minimum. Many have more
A specialty pediatrician must finish high school and then does: 1  4 years of college. 2  4 years of medical school. 3  3 years of general pediatric training in a hospitals. 4  1 &endash;3 years (usually) of special pediatric training (called a subspecialty). 1 3 years of general pediatric training in a hospitals. 2  1 &endash;3 years (usually) of special pediatric training (called a subspecialty). 3  There are currently 12 different subspecialties. 4  There are other special training programs for pediatricians, too.