According to DIYOrNot.com, it should cost between $500 and $800 to install a single new garage door. They demonstrate that the average homeowner can usually tackle such a project in a nine hour time span and a professional will be able to complete it in roughly five hours. 
Average cost to install a garage door opener is about $200 - $425.  Installation price depends on who does it. Check  doors4uk.co.uk/ to help you determine any additional wo … rk  needs. 1 person found this useful. 
Each has its proverbial pluses and minuses, and each comes with a different range of costs and requirements. According to DIYOrNot.com, it will cost between $200 and $425 to install a single new garage door opener. 1 Selecting an opener-The screw-drive varieties will cost between $150 to $250 for the equipment and will be far less noisy than the chain drive versions. 2  The chain drive types average $130 to $180 for the equipment, and the belt drives are the quietest and most costly averaging between $170 and $350 each
Our free calculator uses recent, trusted data to estimate costs for your Automatic Garage Door Opener Installation project. For a basic 6 doors project in zip code 47474, the benchmark cost to Install an Automatic Garage Door Opener ranges between $221.02 - $363.88 per door. To estimate costs for your project: 1. Set Project Zip Code Enter the Zip Code for the location where labor is hired and materials purchased
A garage door will cost anywhere from $200 for single doors to $4,000 for two or more doors, with better materials accounting for the higher cost. Most homeowners report spending about $1,060 for the door and installation. Purchasing extra remotes and getting openers set up for operation will typically range from $100 to $400, which will add to the overall cost of the garage door installation. If your opener works with the new door, you won't need to have it replaced.
A professional garage door installation can usually be done within a day. The national average cost of a garage door installation, including labor and material, ranges from $700.92 to $1,345.92, according to homewyse.com. Receiving bids from several reputable contractors can help you get the best value on installation costs
to $507. and also varies depending on your zipcode: Installing a garage door opener will save you the inconvenience of leaving your car to operate the door. You will find that the cost to install an average garage door opener depends on the door size, accessories, quality of finish, and labor rate. In the following tables the Labor Cost figures are what the able DIY person should expect to save by performing the complete installation
A garage door installation service charges $421 to replace an electric garage door opener in a typical two-car garage, which includes the labor and material. If you're a handy homeowner, you can replace an old unit with a new one for $210, the garage door opener installation cost, and save 50 percent. Now you know the average cost to install a garage door opener, which includes the labor and material, and what’s involved, so you can decide to do it yourself or hire a contractor. Don’t forget to adjust the cost to where you live by adding your ZIP Code.
Garage door opener repair can cost between $100 and $300 depending on the extent of the problem. Return to Top. The type of garage door you select -- and any extra pieces or labor required -- will influence how much you pay to have it professionally installed. Purchasing extra remotes and getting openers set up for operation will typically range from $100 to $400, which will add to the overall cost of the garage door installation. If your opener works with the new door, you won't need to have it replaced.