Although radio frequency is a rate of oscillation, the term radio frequency or its abbreviation RF are used as a synonym for radio – i.e., to describe the use of wireless communication, as opposed to communication via electric wires. Examples include: 1  Radio-frequency identification. However, since the antenna will pick up thousands of radio signals at a time, a radio tuner is necessary to tune into a particular frequency (or frequency range). This is typically done via a resonator – in its simplest form, a circuit with a capacitor and an inductor form a tuned circuit.
GPS Solutions. A radio frequency (RF) signal refers to a wireless electromagnetic signal used as a form of communication, if one is discussing wireless electronics. Radio waves are a form of electromagnetic radiation with identified radio frequencies that range from 3Hz to 300 GHz. 
Radio frequency signal generators (RF signal generators) are a particularly useful item of test equipment widely used in RF microwave design and test applications. These microwave and RF signal generators come in a variety of forms and with a host of facilities and capabilities. It is possible to design radio frequency signal generators in a variety of ways. Also with developments that have been made in electronics circuitry over the years, different techniques have evolved. It can be said that there are two forms of signal generator that can be used:
If you modulate the frequency you are transmitting with, why do I not only pick up, essentially, the equivalent of an AM signal at 100 MHz, instead of picking up on frequencies that are not 100 MHz (Since they've been Frequency Modulated, they're not 100 MHz, which is what my radio is on). 
Radio waves have different frequencies, and by tuning a radio receiver to a specific frequency you can pick up a specific signal. In the United States, the FCC (Federal Communications Commission) decides who is able to use which frequencies for which purposes, and it issues licenses to stations for specific frequencies. When you listen to a radio station and the announcer says, You are listening to 91.5 FM WRKX The Rock!, what the announcer means is that you are listening to a radio station broadcasting an FM radio signal at a frequency of 91.5 megahertz, with FCC-assigned call letters of WRKX.
For other uses, see RF (disambiguation) . Radio frequency (RF): any of the electromagnetic wave frequencies that lie in the range extending from around 7003300000000000000♠3 kHz to 7011300000000000000♠300 GHz, which include those frequencies used for communications or radar signals. However, since the antenna will pick up thousands of radio signals at a time, a radio tuner is necessary to tune into a particular frequency (or frequency range). This is typically done via a resonator – in its simplest form, a circuit with a capacitor and an inductor form a tuned circuit.
The unit for frequency is Hertz (Hz), which is the number of cycles occurring each second. For example, an 802.11b wireless LAN operates at a frequency of 2.4 GHz, which means that the signal includes 2,400,000,000 cycles per second. The phase corresponds to how far the signal is offset from a reference point. As a convention, each cycle of the signal spans 360 degrees. For example, a signal might have a phase shift of 90 degrees, which means that the offset amount is one quarter (90/360 = 1/4) of the signal.
Radio frequency signal generators are a form of electronic test equipment found in virtually every radio frequency design or test laboratory. These signal generators are used wherever an RF signal needs to be supplied to a circuit or unit that is being developed or tested. It is possible to design radio frequency signal generators in a variety of ways. Also with developments that have been made in electronics circuitry over the years, different techniques have evolved. It can be said that there are two forms of signal generator that can be used:
Since the detector works more efficiently with a larger signal applied, it makes sense to amplify the signal before it is applied to the detector. At this point, the signals being amplified are at the carrier, or Radio Frequency, so this kind of amplifier is called an RF amplifier. Transmissions on Medium Wave frequencies are by Amplitude Modulation. The amplitude of the transmitted radio signal or carrier is modulated-made to rise and fall-by another signal of audible frequency-for example, speech or music.