The cytoplasm of the animal cell is a gel-like material made of water. It fills the cells and contains proteins and important molecules that are necessary for the cell. The cytoplasm is made of proteins, carbohydrates, salts, sugars, amino acids and nucleotides. Cytoplasm holds all the cellular organelles. Cytoskeleton prese nt in the cytoplasm help in the movement of the cell through cytoplasmic streaming. 1 Cytoplasm is the fluid substance that fills the space between the cell membrane and the cellular organelles. 2  Cytoplasm shows differential staining properties, the areas stained with the basic dyes are the basophilic areas of the cytoplasm and is termed as ergatoplasm for this material.
Confidence votes 126. Simply put it's made of organelles and cytosol (which is the cellular fluid). If you're asking what's cytosol is made of, then it consists mostly of water, dissolved ions, small molecules, and large water-soluble molecules (such as protein). Th … e cytoplasm fills the cell  and is enclosed by the cell membrane, this is where many chemical  reactions take place. The nucleus in like the control centre of the  cell-it contains genetic material and controls what happens in the  cell.
The cytoplasm comprises cytosol (the gel-like substance enclosed within the cell membrane) – and the organelles – the cell 's internal sub-structures. All of the contents of the cells of prokaryote organisms (such as bacteria, which lack a cell nucleus) are contained within the cytoplasm. It is within the cytoplasm that most cellular activities occur, such as many metabolic pathways including glycolysis, and processes such as cell division.
In eukaryotes, the cytoplasm is that portion of the cell that lies between the nuclear envelope (nuclear membrane) and the cell membrane. It comprises both the cytosol (fluid-filled space outside the organelles) and the cellular organelles floating in the cytosol (Alberts et al. 1989). The cytosol, which is that portion of the cytoplasm that occupies the intracellular space outside the membrane-bounded organelles, is the site of protein synthesis and most of the cell's intermediary metabolism (Alberts et al. 1989). It has thousands of enzymes involved in metabolism (Alberts et al.
By Regina Bailey. Definition: The cytoplasm consists of all of the contents outside of the nucleus and enclosed within the cell membrane of a cell. This includes the cytosol and in euckaryotic cells, organelles such as mitochondria and ribosomes. 
The cytosol is made up of water, salts, organic molecules, and many enzymes that catalyze reactions. Organelles in the cytoplasm include mitochondria, chloroplasts (in plants), endoplasmic reticulum (ER) (rough and smooth ER), golgi apparatus, lysosomes, endosomes, and peroxisomes (Alberts et al. 1989). The cytosol, which is that portion of the cytoplasm that occupies the intracellular space outside the membrane-bounded organelles, is the site of protein synthesis and most of the cell's intermediary metabolism (Alberts et al. 1989). It has thousands of enzymes involved in metabolism (Alberts et al.
Basically cytoplasm is the substance that fills the cell. It is a jelly-like substance and it is made up of eighty percent water and is usually clear and colorless.Cytoplasm is a thick gel-like substance. It liq ue f ies when it is agitated or stirred. 1 Cytoplasm is the fluid substance that fills the space between the cell membrane and the cellular organelles. 2  Cytoplasm shows differential staining properties, the areas stained with the basic dyes are the basophilic areas of the cytoplasm and is termed as ergatoplasm for this material.