Cloning. One of many bad things in genetic engineering is cloning. Cloning is a process where we make same creatures from its DNA. On one side, you have a mathematical badness of cloning. Dolly was a sheep created by a process of cloning. It has created in 1996. It died in 2003 because of many circumstances.
Science has the ability to change the way that humans are made and alter the flaws that are known. This can be done through the process of human genetic engineering. Altering the technology in humans is a topic that causes a lot of controversy.
One of many bad things in genetic engineering is cloning. Cloning is a process where we make same creatures from its DNA. On one side, you have a mathematical badness of cloning. Dolly was a sheep created by a process of cloning. It has created in 1996. It died in 2003 because of many circumstances.
1 Parsons English IV H September 9, 2013 Genetic Engineering Genetic engineering is only in its second generation of science and experiments. This statement summarizes the idea that genetic manipulation is only at a toddler stage.
My argument is that genetic engineering, and specifically human genetic engineering is a good thing. I believe that human genetic engineering (HGE) can benefit human kind in an endless number of ways including but not limited to :
Genetic engineering in humans may be able to save millions of lives by finally treating hereditary diseases such as cancer and cystic fibrosis. However genetic engineering will be abused by many perfectionists who want to design their babies right down to the colour of their eyes.
There is also another type of human genetic engineering that involves trading in a bad gene for a good one. This is done in the cells, but does not include the sex cell, which is the process of human genetic engineering refereed to as somatic cell gene therapy.
Genetic Engineering Basics. DNA is a blueprint that shows how individual an organism is. The information stored in an individual organisms' DNA is responsible for controlling all biochemical processes of an organism, such as an animal's cellular respiration and photosynthesis in plants.