The salary for someone with the job title Phlebotomist in Atlanta, GA varies depending on a number of factors. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at employers of all sizes and industries on Phlebotomist salaries to construct a range which describes the distribution of salaries for people with the job title Phlebotomist in Atlanta, GA.
These variations depend on on a wide range of factors from population to general competitiveness in the market. Below is a map displaying a few key cities in Georgia and surrounding states, click on any one to find Phlebotomist Salaries for that area. May conduct interviews, take vital signs, and draw and test blood samples to screen donors at blood bank. Requires a high school diploma and/or certification by a nationally recognized body.
Average Phlebotomist salaries for job postings in Georgia are 14% higher than average Phlebotomist salaries for job postings nationwide. 
Those of you that are wondering, phlebotomist salary is approximated to be at $13 per hour as revealed by the records of the American Society of Clinical Pathologists (ASCP). So for those technicians living in the Georgia area, they usually get an annual salary which range from $22,000 to $30,000 after taxes. The calculation of a phlebotomist salary depends on many variables: working experience, qualifications, and the kind of employer. As technicians move up in tenure, their wage is also likely to increase at $28,000 to $33,000 (5-9 years in time spent) and making more than $38,000 for a service of 10-19 years. These are example rates offered to technicians in the Georgia area.
Draws and collects blood samples from patients, verifies records and prepares specimens for laboratory analysis. May prick finger to draw blood. May conduct interviews, take vital signs, and draw and test blood samples to screen donors at blood bank. Requires a high school diploma and/or certification by a nationally recognized body. Has knowledge of commonly used concepts, practices, and procedures within a particular fiel
Similar Job Titles: This chart describes the expected percentage of people who perform the job of Phlebotomist in Atlanta, GA that make less than that salary. For example 50% of the people who perform the job of Phlebotomist in Atlanta are expected to make less than the median. Source: HR Reported data as of October 2015. Our team of Certified Compensation Professionals has analyzed survey data collected from thousands of HR departments at employers of all sizes and industries on Phlebotomist salaries to construct a range which describes the distribution of salaries for people with the job title Phlebotomist in Atlanta, GA.
Average Phlebotomist Salaries. The average salary for phlebotomist jobs in Atlanta, GA is $28,000. Average phlebotomist salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term phlebotomist anywhere in the job listing.
Phlebotomy Technician in Atlanta, GA. Average Phlebotomy Technician salaries for job postings in Atlanta, GA are 25% higher than average Phlebotomy Technician salaries for job postings nationwide. 
Phlebotomy Salary in Georgia. A phlebotomy technician is a vital member of the laboratory workforce whose key function would be to obtain liquid blood samples from patients through numerous techniques like arterial puncture, venipuncture, and capillary puncture. As technicians move up in tenure, their wage is also likely to increase at $28,000 to $33,000 (5-9 years in time spent) and making more than $38,000 for a service of 10-19 years. These are example rates offered to technicians in the Georgia area.