Gout is a medical condition that is caused by a buildup of uric acid in the blood stream. Statistically gout affects about one out of every 100 people in the world; research also indicates that this number is gradually rising in many areas even among some developed countries. The symptoms vary depending on the type of gout but some of the common symptoms include; 1  inflammations around the affected area. 2  sharp pain in a specific joint. 3  reddening of the skin. 4  fever due to elevated body temperature.
Gout: Types list. The list of types of Gout mentioned in various sources includes: 1  Podagra-the name for gout in the big toe; about 75% of cases. 2  Subtype categories based on progression and severity: 3  Asymptomatic hyperuricemia-early stage without any symptoms. 1 Subtype categories based on progression and severity: 2  Asymptomatic hyperuricemia-early stage without any symptoms. 3  Acute gout-also called acute gouty arthritis; sudden attacks of gout symptoms of joint pain and swelling. 4  Intercritical gout-the symptom-free stage between attacks of acute gout.
Gout can be described as a complex type of arthritis that is characterized by severe and sudden bouts of intense pain, tenderness, swelling and redness in the joints, especially the base of the big toe. It is a very common condition and generally affects people who follow a regular diet that is high in purines. 1 Gout often refers to a complex type of arthritis that is generally characterized by sudden spells... 2  Dietary Tips Foods Avoid Gout. 3  Foods To Avoid For Treating GoutGout is a type of arthritis which usually develops in the feet or...
The main characteristic of this type of gout is a high concentration of uric acid in the bloodstream. The main organ that is responsible for releasing uric acid in the blood circulation system is the liver. The symptoms vary depending on the type of gout but some of the common symptoms include; 1  inflammations around the affected area. 2  sharp pain in a specific joint. 3  reddening of the skin. 4  fever due to elevated body temperature.
Gout is one form of arthritis. It can be divided into two categories, either primary or secondary, depending on the cause. It is sometimes confused with pseudogout, which often affects the knee joints. There are different stages of gout. In its early stage, attacks occur a few times each year and last for several days. 
There are several types of gout medication that may be effective for you. Allupurinol – Allupurinol is a popular medicine and can be used to lower your level of uric acid. It helps your body’s systems to maintain the uric acid at a proper level. It is prescribed more to prevent gout symptoms than to treat them. This type of drug is usually given to chronic sufferers of gout. It works to help the kidneys get rid of greater amounts of uric acid. Sulfinpyrazone – Sulfinpyrazone is most commonly called Anturane. This drug aids your body in maintaining a good
The types of gout that are probably best known are: a) True gout-this is the result of overly high uric acid naturally occurring in the system and producing monosodium urate crystals that are normally deposited in and around joints. b) Pseudo-gout-this is caused by calcium pyrophosphate crystals that are also deposited in and around joints.
Gout is a metabolic disorder which causes inflammation of the joints. In acute cases, some joints swell up within just a few hours and become very sensitive to pain. The inflammation is triggered by tiny needle-shaped crystals of uric acid that build up mostly in the joints. Purines are mainly produced inside the body, but they are also found in many different types of foods. Fish, meat and seafood are especially rich in purines. People with gout are sometimes advised to stick to a strict low-purine diet.
Pseudogout is a type of inflammation of joints (arthritis) that is caused by deposits of crystals, called calcium pyrophosphate, in and around the joints. Pseudogout literally means false gout .. It derives its name from its similarity to gout. 
View Article Summary. Apparently, gout has a twin sister named pseudogout. While gout and pseudogout may share the same characteristics and symptoms, they are caused by different types of crystals that settle in the joints, leading to pain and swelling.