A simple circuit requires three (3) things: 1  A source of electrical potential difference or voltage. 2  A conductive path which would allow for the movement of charges. 3  An electrical resistance (resistor) which is loosely defined as any object that uses electricity to do work. 
10 most extreme places on Earth. An electrical circuit is a device that uses electricity to perform a task, such as run a vacuum or power a lamp. The circuit is a closed loop formed by a power source, wires, a fuse, a load, and a switch. In other words, when a power switch is turned on, the electrical circuit is complete and current flows from the positive terminal of the power source, through the wire to the load, and finally to the negative terminal.
This energy appears as heat, and the scattering is a resistance to the current. Think of the bridge as a garden hose. The current of electricity is the water flowing in the hose and the water pressure is the voltage of a circuit. The diameter of the hose is the determining factor for the resistance. Current refers to the movement of charges. In an electrical circuit – electrons move from the negative pole to the positive. 
They say this: - Electricity is a type of energy. - Electric current is a flow of energy. 1  In a simple electric circuit, the electricity flows slowly in a complete circle, while the energy moves differently. 2  The electrical energy flows rapidly across the circuit, going from the source to the load but not returning. Two things are flowing: electricity flows in a closed loop, while energy is flowing one-way from source to load. In an AC system, the charges of electricity move back and forth over a distance shorter than a ten-thousandth of a millimeter. In other words, they sit inside the wires and vibrate.
1 An electric current in a circuit transfers energy from the battery to the circuit components. 2  No current is ‘used up’ in this process. 3  In most circuits, the moving charged particles are negatively charged electrons that are always present in the wires and other components of the circuit. 
A source of energy is a substance or object that creates and form  of energy from kinetic energy to gravitational potential. An  example would be wind. The wind will push a … turbine round and the  turbine spinning will create a legitimate amount of energy for a  light bulb. All naturally occurring forces/energy sources/ material sources of energy are non conventional source of energy. Some of them are as follows 1. Wind energy. The naturally bl … owing wind is made to turn a wind mill/wind turbine and the energy so obtained is used for useful work.
A circuit is a closed loop that electrons can travel in. A source of electricity, such as a battery, provides electrical energy in the circuit. Unless the circuit is complete, that is, making a full circle back to the electrical source, no electrons will move. 
Electricity is a secondary energy source which means it is produced from primary energy sources such as oil, gas, nuclear energy, wind, coal, solar, etc. Renewable source of energy is referring only to the type of what we call the primary source of energy which is either r … enewable like solar or exhaustible like coal or oil. Electricity is a secondary source of energy which depends on the primary source of energy for its production.
Most sources of electrical energy (the mains, a battery) are modeled as voltage sources. An ideal voltage source provides no energy when it is loaded by an open circuit (i.e. an infinite impedance), but approaches infinite energy and current when the load resistance approaches zero (a short circuit). Conversely, a current source provides a constant current, as long as the load connected to the source terminals has sufficiently low impedance. An ideal current source would provide no energy to a short circuit and approach infinite energy and voltage as the load resistance approaches infinity (an open circuit).
Electricity is obtained from the conversion of a primary energy source (which is available in nature) as coal, natural gas, oil, solar energy, nuclear energy, and other natura … l sources. Renewable source of energy is referring only to the type of what we call the primary source of energy which is either r … enewable like solar or exhaustible like coal or oil. Electricity is a secondary source of energy which depends on the primary source of energy for its production.