Women. Overview The name ginseng is used to refer to both American (Panax quinquefolius) and Asian or Korean ginseng (Panax ginseng), which belong to the genus Panax and have a somewhat similar chemical makeup. 
It is because ginseng and ginkgo biloba have a number of similarities. Firstly, both ginseng and ginkgo biloba has been used in traditional medicine for thousands of years. Ginseng and ginkgo biloba are both believed to have benefits on memory, actually, there are a few scientific evidence for their health benefits. Further, ginseng and gingko biloba are both may benefit or support many conditions. Ginseng and ginkgo biloba both have been studied extensively about their potential health benefits. Ginseng and ginkgo biloba both may benefits our central nervous system, circulatory system and reproductive system.
Like Asian ginseng, American ginseng is a light tan, gnarled root that often looks like a human body with stringy shoots for arms and legs. Native Americans used the root as a stimulant and to treat headaches, fever, indigestion, and infertility. American ginseng products are made from ginseng root and the long, thin offshoots called root hairs. The main chemical ingredients of American ginseng are ginsenosides and polysaccharide glycans (quinquefolans A, B, and C).
Read Reviews. A unique blend of the two most sought after botanicals: Ginkgo Biloba and Panax (Asian) Ginseng. Ginkgo Biloba and Panax Ginseng are an ideal pairing to help with age-related changes in memory and mental function, as well as everyday stress and fatigue. 
Ginseng vs Ginkgo biloba. Ginseng and ginkgo biloba are of great medicinal value and has been in use for centuries. Though the two herbs — Ginseng and ginkgo biloba ‘“ are similar in many aspects, they have many differences. The first difference one can notice is with regard to the extracts. Ginseng and ginkgo biloba are widely used for mental stress and also enhancing memory. Though these two herbs help in improving mental health, they act differently. Ginkgo biloba helps in augmenting the flow of blood to the brain.
Overview. Ginseng has been used in Chinese medicine for thousands of years. The name ginseng refers to both American (Panax quinquefolius) and Asian or Korean ginseng (Panax ginseng) , which are made up of similar chemicals. Wrinkles around the neck of the root tell how old the plant is. Ginseng is not ready to be used as medicine until it has grown for about 6 years. Asian or Chinese and Korean ginseng are the same plants, but grown in different areas. American ginseng is a relative of the same species, native to North America.
Arginine or L-arginine, ginkgo biloba, and ginseng are commonly used to increase energy and strength, improve cognitive functioning and enhance overall health. Arginine is a semi-essential amino acid, necessary for the breakdown of ammonia to urea to eliminate toxic ammonia from the body. L-arginine, ginkgo biloba, and ginseng have been used for years to treat a number of ailments and improve body functions and overall health. Minimal research confirms the benefits of each of these supplements. They have potentially harmful side effects and negative interactions with other medications.
Treatment of these cells with Ginkgo biloba extract significantly attenuated the basal as well as the hydrogen peroxide-realted reactive oxygen species levels. [1] In a study, extracts of ginseng and ginkgo biloba showed a protective effects on rat primary cultured neurons damaged by Abeta(1-40). Further, ginseng and gingko biloba are both may benefit or support many conditions. Ginseng and ginkgo biloba both have been studied extensively about their potential health benefits. Ginseng and ginkgo biloba both may benefits our central nervous system, circulatory system and reproductive system.
Ginkgo biloba, also known as Maidenhair, has been traced back nearly 300 million years making it the oldest surviving tree species on earth! The Chinese have used the plant medicinally for eons but many of the modern applications come from the research of German scientists. Ginkgo is a prescription herb in Germany. Ginkgo Biloba is especially good when combined with Panax Ginseng. Ginkgo extract has proven benefits to elderly persons. This ancient herb acts to enhance oxygen utilization and thus improves memory, concentration, and other mental faculties. 
The name ginseng is used to refer to both American (Panax quinquefolius) and Asian or Korean ginseng (Panax ginseng), which belong to the genus Panax and have a somewhat similar chemical makeup. American ginseng products are made from ginseng root and the long, thin offshoots called root hairs. The main chemical ingredients of American ginseng are ginsenosides and polysaccharide glycans (quinquefolans A, B, and C).