Definition of ECTOPLASM. 1. : the outer relatively rigid granule-free layer of the cytoplasm usually held to be a gel reversibly convertible to a sol. 2. : a substance held to produce spirit materialization and telekinesis. — ec·to·plas·mic \ˌek-tə-ˈplaz-mik\ adjective. See ectoplasm defined for kids. Medical Definition of ECTOPLASM. : the outer relatively rigid granule-free layer of the cytoplasm usually held to be a gel reversibly convertible to a sol—compare endoplasm.
noun. ( 1 cytology) the outer layer of cytoplasm in some cells, esp protozoa, which differs from the inner cytoplasm in being a clear gel. ( 2 spiritualism) the substance supposedly emanating from the body of a medium during trances. 
1. the outer portion of the cytoplasm of a cell. 2. a viscous substance claimed by spiritualists to emanate from the body of a medium and then produce living forms. [1880–85]. ec`to•plas′mic, ec`to•plas•mat′ic (-ˈmaet ˈmæt) ɪk. adj 1. ectoplasm - (spiritualism) a substance supposed to emanate from the body of the medium during a trance. spiritualism-the belief that the spirits of dead people can communicate with people who are still alive (especially via a medium).
1. Biology The outer portion of the continuous phase of cytoplasm of a cell, sometimes distinguishable as a somewhat rigid, gelled layer beneath the cell membrane. 2. a. The visible substance believed to emanate from the body of a spiritualistic medium during communication with the dead. 1. ectoplasm - (spiritualism) a substance supposed to emanate from the body of the medium during a trance. spiritualism-the belief that the spirits of dead people can communicate with people who are still alive (especially via a medium).
Ectoplasm (from the Greek ektos, meaning outside, and plasma, meaning something formed or molded) is a term coined by Charles Richet to denote a substance or spiritual energy exteriorized by physical mediums. Ectoplasm is said to be associated with the formation of spirits. Ectoplasm is considered to be a hoax, made from cheesecloth, gauze or other natural substances. Although the term is widespread in popular culture, the physical existence of ectoplasm is not accepted by science. Some tested samples purported to be ectoplasm have been found to be various non-paranorm
Ectoplasm is said to be formed by physical mediums when in a trance state. This material is excreted as a gauze-like substance from orifices on the medium's body and spiritual entities are said to drape this substance over their nonphysical body, enabling them to interact in the physical and real universe. Although the term is widespread in popular culture, the physical existence of ectoplasm is not accepted by science. Some tested samples purported to be ectoplasm have been found to be various non-paranormal substances.
Ectoplasm is used to describe spiritual energy with substance. Charles Richet created the word ectoplasm to first describe physical manifestations that appeared from psychic mediums during the late 1800's while in trances. Ectoplasm was purportedly secreted from the medium's orifices, such as the ears, nose or mouth. However, ectoplasm of this type was more of a hoax during the rise of spiritualism and fraudulent mediumship. In modern times, ectoplasm in ghost investigations may still be described as any unknown physical substance, such as a slime, attributed to a haunting; but, mostly, photographic and video evidence of mists and vapors captured during ghost investigations are being labeled ectoplasm.
• ECTOPLASM (noun). The noun ECTOPLASM has 2 senses: 1. (spiritualism) a substance supposed to emanate from the body of the medium during a trance. 2. the outer granule-free layer of cytoplasm. Familiarity information: ECTOPLASM used as a noun is rare. Hypernyms (ectoplasm is a kind of...): emanation (something that is emitted or radiated (as a gas or an odor or a light etc.)). Domain category: spiritualism (the belief that the spirits of dead people can communicate with people who are still alive (especially via a medium)).
ectoplasm. n. 1. (Biology) cytology the outer layer of cytoplasm in some cells, esp protozoa, which differs from the inner cytoplasm in being a clear gel. See also endoplasm. 1. ectoplasm - (spiritualism) a substance supposed to emanate from the body of the medium during a trance. spiritualism-the belief that the spirits of dead people can communicate with people who are still alive (especially via a medium).
Meaning: (spiritualism) a substance supposed to emanate from the body of the medium during a trance. Classified under: Nouns denoting substances. Hypernyms (ectoplasm is a kind of...): emanation (something that is emitted or radiated (as a gas or an odor or a light etc.)). Domain category: spiritualism (the belief that the spirits of dead people can communicate with people who are still alive (especially via a medium)).