If you have a roof made of slate, copper, clay or concrete, you can expect it to last 50 years. The foundation and frame of your house should last a lifetime if they were properly built. And while the walls should also last the lifetime of the house, aluminum windows are only expected to hang around for 15 to 20 years. Wooden windows should last as long as 30 years. Your garage door opener won't have as lucky of a fate, however. Expect it to last 10 to 15 years
Life Expectancy Numbers. The typical dishwasher can be expected to last between seven and 12 years, with the average working expectancy being nine to 10 years. Certain factors, such as cost, quality, brand, care, maintenance and frequency of usage, can affect the life expectancy of a dishwasher. While your particular model may last for a longer or shorter duration than the average expectancy, it is good to have an idea of the average time you can expect your appliance to last. This will give you an idea of when the dishwasher will need to be replaced and help you to budget accordingly.
Report Abuse. i'm sure modern dishwashers don't last as long as they used too ..... i think you could expect a good ten years from it if you used it every day. Source(s): http://www.dishwasher-review.com/sears-k... I would say that the average large appliance should last anywhere from 10 to 20 years, but I would change in 10 so there wont be coast in fixing.
According to the results, the average lifespan for a modern dishwasher is just nine years. Although my Maytag was working well up until the accident, I purchased it back in 2001 and it appears to be bumping up against its expiration date. My simple cabinet resurfacing project turned into a nightmare and is now costing me more than I budgeted for. The biggest problem: the workers broke my dishwasher and water leaked through to my neighbors below. Fortunately, the contractor's insurance should cover the structural damage.
To avoid any surprises, expect to replace your dishwasher every eight to 10 years. The good news, however, is that dishwashers are relatively inexpensive. You can find models starting around $400. 
Best Answer: Hi! I've had my US Maytag dishwasher JetClean do well for almost 10 years. I think they're supposed to last anywhere from 8-15 years, more or less, depending on how much you use it, probably. I don't know about the pumps, sorry. If you suscribe to Consumer Reports, maybe they would have info on that. How long do the pumps usually last in Maytag’s and is this good value? I think she payed £600 new it’s in good condition apart from a few cracks on the lcd buttons and display.