For decades, good study habits have been linked to positive academic achievement. Current research published in the Review of Economics and Statistics, however, shows a marked decline in average weekly study time for college students. Today’s students study only about 14 hours per week. 
By John M. Grohol, Psy.D. ~ 9 min read. Pages: 1 2 3 All. Students grapple with many issues in their lives, and because of all of the competing things for your attention, it’s hard to concentrate on studying. And yet if you’re in school, you have to do at least a little studying in order to progress from year to year. 
A lot of parents -- maybe yours -- have strong opinions about how kids study. Maybe they think kids should do their homework right after school. Maybe they think good study habits mean kids should study in the same quiet place every day. Maybe they think that you should sit still until all your work is done. 
It is never too late to develop great study habits. If you're starting a new school year, or you just want to improve your grades and school performance, take a look at this list of good habits and start making some changes in your routine. lina aidukaite/Moment/Getty Images. 
Successful students have good study habits. They apply these habits to all of their classes. Read about each study habit. Work to develop any study habit you do not have. Successful students: 1  Try not to do too much studying at one time. 2  If you try to do too much studying at one time, you will tire and your studying will not be very effective. 3  Space the work you have to do over shorter periods of time. 
1 You remember things better in short amounts of time-do not study for 4 hours; you will only forget half the things you read. 2  Study for an hour, then take a 5 - 10 minute break to walk around, and study for another hour. If you are not the person to concentrate, try to lighten your load of classes. 12 credits is a good amount of credits to schedule for each semester. That will ensure up to 12-24 hours of studying, assuming that each class has at least 1 hour of studying per credit. 1  12 Edit step.
Study things more if you have a hard time doing them. 5. Improve test-taking strategies. A poor test result doesn't always mean that the student doesn't have a good grasp of the academic material or skill gaps. It's possible that the student understands the material, but doesn't take tests well. Take notes in any classes that you have. You can even take notes at work. It may be easier to use abbreviations for common words, only record important information (and/or key words), use clear headers to organize information and use pictures/diagrams to demonstrate. Highlight or underline key points in your material.
Download Worksheet (PDF). Before you can improve your study habits, you have to identify the strengths and weaknesses in your current study habits. Indicate where you stand for each study habit. 
5 Bad Study Habits You’ve Probably Been Following. You hear a lot of platitudes when it comes to studying: “Make studying a priority. Review your notes early and often.” “Read all the textbook chapters and do your homework.” “Practice makes perfect. 
Tips. 1  Eat an hour before you sit down to study. 2  Get out the notes you need. 3  Do your homework before extra curricular activities. 4  When working in groups, don't get distracted. 5  Stretching during your breaks might help give your body and/or mind a boost of energy. 6  The easiest things to learn are things that you are interested in. 7  Repeated reading ... Take notes in any classes that you have. You can even take notes at work. It may be easier to use abbreviations for common words, only record important information (and/or key words), use clear headers to organize information and use pictures/diagrams to demonstrate. Highlight or underline key points in your material.