Compare To: See the name popularity of Claudia since 1880 and compare it to other names in both chart and table forms. All of our U.S. data comes from the Social Security Administration, which provides year popularity data for all names that have more than 5 occurences by gender. Mouse over the chart entries or scroll down to the table for data details. About the popularity data | Popular Name Data By Year.
Claudia is a very prominent first name for women (#234 out of 4276, Top 5%) but an uncommon last name for all people. (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Claudia for girls. Claudia reached its apex rank of #149 in the U.S. during 1940-1949, and is at #724 currently. (2014 Birth Statistics). It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Claudia is lame. Feminine of Cladius (see Claude). Biblical: a Christian woman of Rome greeted by Paul in his second letter to Timothy. The name was thus used by those looking for religious names which were not those of saints.
Meanings and history of the name Claudia : | Edit. Share what you know! Famous real-life people named Claudia: | Edit. First Lady Claudia Alta Lady Bird Johnson, wife of 1960s American President Lyndon B. Johnson. Claudia Schiffer, German model. Claudia J. Kennedy, first woman to reach the rank of three-star general in the U.S. Army.
Claudia /clau-dia/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced KLAW-dee-ah. It is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Claudia is lame. Feminine of Cladius (see Claude). Biblical: a Christian woman of Rome greeted by Paul in his second letter to Timothy. The name was thus used by those looking for religious names which were not those of saints.
Name: Compare To: See the name popularity of Claudia since 1880 and compare it to other names in both chart and table forms. View Claudia popularity trends, and how the popularity of Claudia has changed over time. All of our U.S. data comes from the Social Security Administration, which provides year popularity data for all names that have more than 5 occurences by gender. Mouse over the chart entries or scroll down to the table for data details. About the popularity data | Popular Name Data By Year.
The name Claudia is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Claudia is: Lame. Spanish Meaning: The name Claudia is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Claudia is: Lame. American Meaning: The name Claudia is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Claudia is: Lame. English Meaning: The name Claudia is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Claudia is: Feminine of Claude.
A few facts about the girl's name Claudia: Records indicate that 124,197 girls in the United States have been named Claudia since 1880. The greatest number of people were given this name in 1952, when 3,381 people in the U.S. were given the name Claudia. Those people are now 63 years old. So ... 1 Records indicate that 124,197 girls in the United States have been named Claudia since 1880. 2  The greatest number of people were given this name in 1952, when 3,381 people in the U.S. were given the name Claudia. 3 
My name is Claudia. while growing up I've never met another girl named Claudia. Everyone I know, knows at least 1 - 2 Claudias. After 22 years of living I finally ran into another Claudia! It's not a very popular name, and I appreciate that my parents named me Claudia. I didn’t get any bullying like other names: icky Vicky, creepy Carrie or things like that. So that’s a good point
French Meaning: The name Claudia is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Claudia is: A feminine form of Claud, aLatin Claudium meaning lame. Claudia was mentioned in the book of Timothy in the New Testament. In American the meaning of the name Claudia is: Lame. English Meaning: The name Claudia is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Claudia is: Feminine of Claude.
There was a popular mid-century series of novels by Rose Franken, beginning with Claudia: The Story of a Marriage, and the name was also used by Agatha Christie and Penelope Lively, as well as being a main character in Anne Rice 's Interview With the Vampire. A classic name with a hint of ancient Roman splendor that has never been truly in or truly out, Claudia still feels like a strong, modern choice --one of our 'sweet spot' names.