Consensus theory is concerned with the maintenance or continuation of social order in society. The consensus theory serves as a sociological argument for the furtherance and preservation of the status quo.
The consensus perspective approach also assumes that effective maintenance of a particular form of society is in the common interest of all its members. Sociological theories could be classified into consensus perspective and conflict perspective. Consensus is a concept of society in which the absence of conflict is seen as the equilibrium state of society based on a general or widespread agreement among all members of a particular society. Conflict is a disagreement or clash between opposing ideas, principles, or people-this can be a covert or overt conflict. The foundation of consensus perspective is the assumption that societies have an inherent tendency to maintain themselves in a state of relative equilibrium through the mutually and supportive interaction of their principal institutions.
Under consensus theory the absence of conflict is seen as the equilibrium state of society and that there is a general or widespread agreement among all members of a particular society about norms, values, rules and regulations. The consensus theory serves as a sociological argument for the furtherance and preservation of the status quo.
(January 2013). Consensus theory is a social theory that holds that a particular political or economic system is a fair system, and that social change should take place within the social institutions provided by it. The consensus theory serves as a sociological argument for the furtherance and preservation of the status quo.
(Original post by darryladie) Consensus in society is about how social order is maintained. From a consensus perspective everyone agrees on social norms and values and people work together to maintain society. Look at: Parsons, Durkheim Conflict theories work on the basis of disagreement or control.
In the consensus perspective, laws are the embodiment of a consensus in society. This is a consensus that helps to hold society together and allows it to function smoothly. In this view, the law is a good thing for all in society. Thus, the laws are not developed by a consensus of society but are instead a tool to be devised and used by the dominant classes. Thus, we can see that these two perspectives have very different views of the nature and origin of laws.
Consensus decision-making is a group decision-making process in which group members develop, and agree to support, a decision in the best interest of the whole. Consensus may be defined professionally as an acceptable resolution, one that can be supported, even if not the favourite of each individual. 
Consensus theory gives prominence to culture as a way of maintaining the consensus of society. This theory highlights the integration of the values of a group of people. The consensus theory pays little importance to social change as they focus more on retaining the society as it is through consensus. However, they did not reject the possibility of social change.
Consensus theory is a sociological perspective in which social order and stability and social regulation forms the base of emphasis. In other words consensus theory is concerned with the maintenance or continuation of social order in society. The foundation of consensus perspective is the assumption that societies have an inherent tendency to maintain themselves in a state of relative equilibrium through the mutually and supportive interaction of their principal institutions.