Definition. An appointed or elected member of the board of directors of a company who, with other directors, has the responsibility for determining and implementing the company’s policy. BusinessDictionary.com. An appointed or elected member of the board of directors of a company who, with other directors, has the responsibility for determining and implementing the company’s policy.
DEFINITION of 'Executive Director'. The senior operating officer or manager of an organization or corporation. Executive director titles (EDs) are frequently reserved for the heads of non-profit organizations, and their duties are similar to a chief executive officer's (CEO) duties of a for-profit company. 
company director. An appointed or elected member of the board of directors of a company who, with other directors, has the responsibility for determining and implementing the company’s policy. BusinessDictionary.com. An appointed or elected member of the board of directors of a company who, with other directors, has the responsibility for determining and implementing the company’s policy.
Board of Directors Law & Legal Definition. A board of directors is a group of persons elected by the shareholders of a corporation to govern and manage the affairs of the company. Directors are either named in the articles of incorporation or appointed by the incorporator on formation of the corporation. The duties and makeup of the board varies by company
A company director does not have to be a stockholder (shareholder) or an employee of the firm, and may only hold the office of director (see qualifications for directors). BusinessDictionary.com. An appointed or elected member of the board of directors of a company who, with other directors, has the responsibility for determining and implementing the company’s policy.
DEFINITION of 'Board Of Directors-B Of D'. A group of individuals that are elected as, or elected to act as, representatives of the stockholders to establish corporate management related policies and to make decisions on major company issues. Every public company must have a board of directors
Intel Board of Directors. A director is a person from a group of managers who leads or supervises a particular area of a company, program, or project. Companies that use this term often have many directors spread throughout different business functions or roles (e.g. director of human resources). The director usually reports directly to a vice president or to the CEO directly in order to let them know the progress of the organization
board of directors. n. the policy managers of a corporation or organization elected by the shareholders or members. The Board in turn chooses the officers of the corporation, sets basic policy, and is responsible to the shareholders. In small corporations there are usually only three directors.