Oral Salvia Drug Detection Times-comparison of Urine verses Saliva Detection Times How long do drugs stay in your system drug test-drug detection times for saliva, click the link above. This is a great comparison chart for drugs in system. These factors include your physical height, weight, your percentage of body fat, your age, current state of health and if you exercise (how often and how much). See the How Long Do Drugs Stay In Your System Chart below for more information on drug screen detection times.
For a urine test, the detection time for opiates ranges from 2 to 5 days, depending on how often and how much the opiate has been used. As regards hair drug tests, opiates are detectable for up to 3 months, depending on the length of the hair sample taken. Articles. How long do drugs stay in system. Description: How long do drugs stay in your system.How long. How to clean your system out of. Description: How to clean your system,body,urine,bloodstream,hair of. How to pass a drug test. Description:
A. Hydrocodone and other opiates will metabolize quite fast. It can be detected in the urine or blood for a day; even two days, depending on your dosage or if you are a habitual user or not. If the drug detection lab is using some ultra-sensitive tests, I really couldn't be sure how long they could find it.
It is essential to find out how long opiates stay in your system because the presence of even the opiates based substances such as heroin, morphine, opium and dihydrocodone results in positive results during drug tests. 
Heroin doesn’t stay in the body long.The half life for heroin is only 3-8 minutes and it clears most systems in the body within a couple of days, even with heavy use. However, heroin drug detection times can depend on a number of factors – how the drug was taken, how often a person takes the drug, and the person’s body time and metabolism. 
Even the quality (potency) of the drug you ingest determines how long the drug will stay in your system and will be detectable when your urine is analyzed (tested) at the lab. However, the information below can used to estimate the approximate length of time specific drugs will be detectable in your body. Whether or not you are undergoing any degree of stress (i.e., your state of mind) at the time you ingest drugs can also play a part in how long drugs stay in your system.
The length of time any illicit or prescribed drugs stay in your system will vary. In large part, it depends on your physiological makeup: your physical height, weight, amount of body fat, age, current state of health, whether or not you exercise mildly, aggressively, or at all. Whether or not you are undergoing any degree of stress (i.e., your state of mind) at the time you ingest drugs can also play a part in how long drugs stay in your system.
Heroin can be detected in urine for 1-2 days. However, heroin will show up in the urine for longer periods if taken in higher amounts, or if someone is a habitual heroin abuser. Sometimes heroin can linger in the body longer depending on factors like weight or body mass. The half life for heroin is only 3-8 minutes and it clears most systems in the body within a couple of days, even with heavy use. However, heroin drug detection times can depend on a number of factors – how the drug was taken, how often a person takes the drug, and the person’s body time and metabolism.
Opiates will stay in urine for 1-7 days, depending on your size and the amount/frequency of use. However, they will remain at detectable levels in your blood for up to 20 days, again, depending on the volume, frequency, and your size. 29 people found this useful. Confidence votes 74. Hydrocodone is most like any form of codeine, Lortab, Lorcet, etc... Any kind of hydrocodone will stay in your urine depending on weight and amount taken for a period of 2 days I've seen, all the way up to 7 days max. To be safe, I would at least give myself 8 days if it's an important (jail sentence) drug screen