Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Early ancestors of the Russians were East Slavic tribes who migrated to the East European Plain in the early middle ages. Most prominent Slavic tribes in the area of modern European Russia included Vyatichs, Krivichs, Radimichs, Severians and Ilmen Slavs. However, the origin of the Slavic peoples is itself a matter on which there is no consensus.. Russians: Emergence of Russian ethnicity : http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russians#Em...
Much of what we know about the origins of the Russian language is rooted in the efforts of historians and linguists to delve into the mystery of the past. Sometime around 3500 to 2500 BC the people who spoke the language known as Indo-European began gradually to form dialect communities and separate from each other. Together, these words of Common-Slavonic, Eastern Slavonic, pure Russian, and foreign origin come together in a rich and complex lexicon what I believe to be one of the most fascinating aspects of the modern Russian language.
According to most ethnologists ethnic Russians originated from the earlier Rus' people (East Slavs of Kievan Rus), and gradually evolved into a different ethnicity from the western Rus people who became the modern-day Belarusians and Ukrainians. However, the origin of the Slavic peoples is itself a matter on which there is no consensus.. Russians: Emergence of Russian ethnicity : http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russians#Em...
The Russian language originated from the early Proto-Slavic language, just like all the other Slavic languages (Ukrainian, Polish, Czech, Serbian, Bulgarian and so on), so in … a sense they are all dialects from that prehistorical language. If you are referring to the white Russians in the Russian civil war, the white Russians were the non-communist party in the war. They were supported by the allies … of World War One, but they did not receive adequate backing, and lost the civil war.
Ethnic Russians known as Great Russians (as oppose to White Russians and Little Russians) began to be recognized as a distinct ethnic group in the 15th century, when they were referred to as Muscovite Russians, during the consolidation of Muscovy Tsardom as a regional power. However, the origin of the Slavic peoples is itself a matter on which there is no consensus.. Russians: Emergence of Russian ethnicity : http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Russians#Em...
The Origin of the Russian People Chapter 19 The prophecy of Ezekiel 38 and 39 has been referred to often in this book because it is related to the interlude of the seven bowls, called Armageddon. There Ros, Meshech, and Tubal are called the chief participants in leading the nations. The origins of the Russian people are as obscure and they are complex. One feels as though he has been peering through a veil into the tribal backgrounds we have discussed. We have attempted to lift the veil. This study has succeeded in shedding light on the numerous inhabitants of South Russia
Russians (Russian: русские, russkiye) are an East Slavic ethnic group native to Russia, who speak the Russian language and primarily live in Russia. One is русские (russkiye), which most often means ethnic Russians. Another is россияне (rossiyane), which means citizens of Russia. The former word refers to ethnic Russians, regardless of what country they live in and irrespective of whether or not they hold Russian citizenship.
If you are looking for the actual origin of the Russian people you must look into the distant ravages of time. in the Bible we see a son of Japheth called Gomer. The Revolution in Russia occured as a reaction to the poverty which was endured by the average Russian at the time. It did not actually benefit many people substantially and r … esulted in only a modest improvement is the daily lives of some people.
There are also small Russian communities in the Balkans, including Lipovans in the Danube delta, Central European nations such as Germany and Poland, as well Russians settled in China, Japan, South Korea, Mexico, Brazil and Argentina and Australia. One is русские (russkiye), which most often means ethnic Russians. Another is россияне (rossiyane), which means citizens of Russia. The former word refers to ethnic Russians, regardless of what country they live in and irrespective of whether or not they hold Russian citizenship.