The function of an RF modulator is simple. The RF modulator converts the video (and/or audio) output of a DVD player (or camcorder or video game) into a channel 3/4 signal that is compatible with a TV's cable or antenna input. There are many RF modulators available, but all function in a similar fashion. Setting your RF modulator is fairly straightforward: First: Just plug your cable/vcr output into its cable input connection of the RF modulator and the DVD player into the RF modulator's AV inputs. Second: Connect a standard cable from the RF modulator to your TV. Third: Select either the channel 3 or 4 output on the back of the RF modulator
1 Connecting to another VHF Input Source Connecting your RF modulator to both a TV set and a VCR, DVD or cable box is easy. 2  Start by disconnecting the VHF input source's 75-ohm cable from the TV's terminal and connecting it to the terminal in the back of the modulator marked ANT IN. Just read the tips listed below and learn about how to connect an RF modulator to your used -- but useful! -- TV set. 1  Connecting a Stereo or TV Connecting an RF modulator takes only seconds, but you have to make sure that you connect the proper plugs to the proper outlet jacks.
An RF Modulator allows the use of DVD players, video game systems, camcorders, and other video components when a television is not equipped with an audio/video jack. The device combines audio/video line-level signals into an RFoutput signal (necessary for televisions with only a 75-ohm RF coaxial input). An RF modulator is the go-between for your TV and DVD player. It accepts the coaxial cable from your TV and the RCA plugs from your DVD player. It does so much more and can be used in different applications, but this scenario covers 99% of the modulators uses. Joey · 9 years ago.
An RF modulator (or radio frequency modulator) is an electronic device whose input is a baseband signal which is used to modulate a radio frequency source. RF modulators may also be used to take the audio and video signal from a PAL or NTSC composite video, RGB, YUV or other composite AV source, and generate a broadcast RF signal that can be fed into a television's aerial/coaxial connector.
Slide the switch on your RF modulator to either the channel 3 or channel 4 setting, then turn on your TV and tune it to that channel. You should see the signal from your video game, camcorder, VCR or DVD player. An RF modulator is a device for converting a coaxial cable jack on older televisions into a set of RCA-type composite audio/video...
Audio/video outputs from source devices such as a DVD player, VCR, or DSS receiver are connected to the audio/video inputs on the modulator. The modulator is then programmed to broadcast the signals on a certain frequency. That RF broadcast is then received by the connected TV. When the TV is tuned to the programmed channel, the video and audio signal of the source device is accessed. RF modulation can become difficult in a CATV system. RF modulators may also be used to take the audio and video signal from a PAL or NTSC composite video, RGB, YUV or other composite AV source, and generate a broadcast RF signal that can be fed into a television's aerial/coaxial connector.
1 Plug the modulator's electricity cord into a power outlet. 2  Turn both the modulator and the stereo or TV on to check that you connected them properly [source: JASCO 3  ]. Connecting to another VHF Input Source Connecting your RF modulator to both a TV set and a VCR, DVD or cable box is easy. Just read the tips listed below and learn about how to connect an RF modulator to your used -- but useful! -- TV set. 1  Connecting a Stereo or TV Connecting an RF modulator takes only seconds, but you have to make sure that you connect the proper plugs to the proper outlet jacks.
1 Turn both the modulator and the stereo or TV on to check that you connected them properly [source: JASCO 2  ]. Connecting to another VHF Input Source Connecting your RF modulator to both a TV set and a VCR, DVD or cable box is easy. Just read the tips listed below and learn about how to connect an RF modulator to your used -- but useful! -- TV set. 1  Connecting a Stereo or TV Connecting an RF modulator takes only seconds, but you have to make sure that you connect the proper plugs to the proper outlet jacks.
1 If you're connecting the RF modulator to a stereo or TV, take the three plugs that are connected to the modulator and plug them into the video and audio output jacks on the stereo system. 2  There will be corresponding colors on both the plugs and the output jacks so you know where to put each plug. Just read the tips listed below and learn about how to connect an RF modulator to your used -- but useful! -- TV set. 1  Connecting a Stereo or TV Connecting an RF modulator takes only seconds, but you have to make sure that you connect the proper plugs to the proper outlet jacks.