Treaty of Nanking. 194,809 pages on this wiki. Template:Infobox treaty The Treaty of Nanking (or Nanjing) was signed on the 29th of August 1842 to mark the end of the First Opium War (1839–42) between the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and the Qing Dynasty of China. On 29 August 1842, British representative Sir Henry Pottinger and Qing representatives, Qiying, Yilibu, and Niujian, signed the treaty. It consisted of thirteen articles and ratification by Queen Victoria and the Daoguang Emperor was exchanged nine months later.
Share to: The Treaty of Nanking (or Nanjing) was signed on 29 August 1842 to mark the end of the First Opium War (1839-42) between the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and th … e Qing Dynasty of China. The Chinese were defeated and signed the Treaty of Nanking in 1842. The provisions of the treaty required the Chinese to pay the British for losses during the war, give the British the island of Hong Kong, and open five ports to foreign trade.
The Treaty of Wangxia (Wang-hsia) was the first formal treaty signed between the United States and China in 1844. It served as an American counterpart to the Anglo-Chinese Treaty of Nanjing that ended the First Opium War in 1842. The Signing of the Treaty of Nanjing in 1842. 
The Treaty of Nanking or Treaty of Nanjing, signed 29 August 1842, was the unequal treaty which marked the end of the First Opium War between the British and Qing Empires of 1839–42. On 29 August 1842, British representative Sir Henry Pottinger and Qing representatives, Qiying, Ilibu and Niujian, signed the Treaty of Nanjing. The treaty consisted of thirteen articles and was ratified by Queen Victoria and the Daoguang Emperor nine months later.
The Treaty of Nanjing was first unequal treaty that signed between China and Britain after the first Opium War defeat. Merchants were terrified rather to give British Army 500000 silver dollars to trade not occupied there home land. In addition, British thought that was not a bad idea to extort more money and lands. The Treaty of Nanjing. Chinese and British officials negotiating the Treaty of Nanjing. Below please find a web question on the Treaty of Nanjing between the British and the Chinese at the end of the First Opium War in 1842.
What was the difference between treaty of Nanjing and treaty of kanagawa? The Treaty of Nanking (or Nanjing) was signed on 29 August 1842 to mark the end of the First Opium War (1839-42) between the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and th … e Qing Dynasty of China. The Chinese were defeated and signed the Treaty of Nanking in 1842. The provisions of the treaty required the Chinese to pay the British for losses during the war, give the British the island of Hong Kong, and open five ports to foreign trade.
The Treaty of Nanjing signed in 1842, after China’s defeat in the Opium War, fundamentally altered the structure of Qing relations with the Western powers. Posted on. (Answer #1). The impact of the Treaty of Nanjing was very much like the impact of the Opium War, since the Treaty of Nanjing came out of the Opium War. In this treaty, the British were given Hong Kong, as well as free access to five ports. In these five ports, the British residents had the right of extraterritoriality
The Treaty of Nanjing ended the First Opim War in 1842, Britain made china pay a huge indemnity (payment for losses in the war). Britain also gained Hong Kong. It gave the B … ritish rights to ports and low tariffs. The Chinese were defeated and signed the Treaty of Nanking in 1842. The provisions of the treaty required the Chinese to pay the British for losses during the war, give the British the island of Hong Kong, and open five ports to foreign trade.
Treaty of Nanjing (Nanking), 1842. Teaty of Nanjing singed after the the Opium War between Britain and China. VICTORIA, by the Grace of God, Queen of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, Defender of the Faith, etc., etc., etc. To All and Singular to whom these Presents shall come, Greeting ! 