As the partially digested food leaves the stomach and enters the small intestine, digestive juices secreted by the pancreas mix with it. The digestive juice produced in the pancreas contains enzymes that aid in further digesting proteins, carbohydrates and fats, as described by the University of Montana.
The pancreas has two main functions. The exocrine cells produce digestive enzymes to assist in digestion and the endocrine cells produce hormones to control metabolism. Pancreatic enzymes produced by acinar cells help to digest proteins, carbohydrates and fats.
The enzymes involved in respiration, photosynthesis and protein synthesis work inside cells. Other enzymes are produced by specialised cells and released from them; the digestive enzymes are like this. They pass out into the gut, where they catalyse the breakdown of food molecules.
Secretion. The stomach produces and secretes several important substances to control the digestion of food. Each of these substances is produced by exocrine or endocrine cells found in the mucosa. 1  The main exocrine product of the stomach is gastric juice – a mixture of mucus, hydrochloric acid, and digestive enzymes.
DIGESTIVE ENZYMES are made by our body's organs. Digestive enzymes are secreted by the salivary glands, stomach, pancreas, and the small intestine. [Technically, digestive enzymes are also considered to be metabolic enzymes whose metabolic role is to digest food.
Two solid digestive organs, the liver and the pancreas, produce digestive juices that reach the intestine through small tubes called ducts. The gallbladder stores the liver's digestive juices until they are needed in the intestine.
Enzymes are secreted by several organs of the digestive system: the salivary glands, the stomach, the pancreas, and the small intestine.
Report Abuse. Enzymes are produced in various regions of our digestive system. Starch is digested by amylase produced by our salivary glands; protein is broken down by pepsin, manufactured in the stomach. In the upper part of the small intestine-the duodenum-all main nutrient molecules are broken down by enzymes made in our pancreas and by the small intestine itself.