The maximum amount that can be transferred to a spouse, parent or grandparent is $5,000 (note 1) , less the costs claimed by the student. This may still result in costs remaining that can be carried forward. The transfer of costs to another person should not be more than can be utilized on their tax return. Amounts cannot be transferred to both a parent or grandparent and to a spouse. If part of the tuition, education and textbook amounts are transferred to a parent or grandparent, they will claim this on line 324 of
Line 324 – Tuition, education, and textbook amounts transferred from a student. The student has calculated on their Schedule 11 the amount of this credit which they will need to reduce their own tax owing. If there is any remaining amount the student may choose to transfer it to one of the following individuals. The student cannot transfer any amount they carried forward in a previous year. The maximum amount they are allowed to transfer is $5,000 less the amount they needed to use to reduce their own tax owing. Only one person can claim this transfer from the student.
You can transfer up to $5,000 federally, and an additional $5,000 provincially ($6,184 for Ontario residents). These amounts are reduced by the portion of this year's tuition, education, and textbook amounts that you used on your own return. Example You paid $4,500 tuition this year. You can also claim an education amount of $1,600 (4 full-time months at $400/month) and a textbook amount of $260 (4 full-time months at $65/month). Your total tuition, education, and textbook amounts are $6,360. You used $2,000 of this amount to reduce your tax payable to zero. This leaves you $3,000 available for transfer: $5,000 minus the $2,000 that you used
The challenge this time: transfer of Tuition and Education amounts. I refer to the calculation of the just-enough amount of tuition and education tax credits (see CRA IT-516R2 or TaxTips.ca simpler explanation here) to transfer from a student to another eligible person like a spouse or parent.
If you choose the option Transfer amount from dependant not processed, make sure to enter only tuition and education amounts from a dependant who is not part of the family unit. DT Max will transfer or carry forward the tuition and education amounts if applicable. 
The student may transfer an amount to his or her parent or grandparent, or to the parent or grandparent of the student's spouse or common-law partner. The student will complete and sign the transfer section of their tax certificate and provide the recipient of the transfer with a copy. The parent or grandparent would enter this amount in field 324 of their Schedule 1. The student cannot transfer any amount they carried forward in a previous year. The maximum amount they are allowed to transfer is $5,000 less the amount they needed to use to reduce their own tax owing. Only one person can claim this transfer from the student.
Only after eliminating their taxable income can the student transfer an amount to a parent. The amount that can be designated for transfer to a parent is limited to the lesser of the total tuition fees and education amounts and $5,000 minus the amount needed by the student to eliminate his/her taxable income. 
Example You paid $4,500 tuition this year. You can also claim an education amount of $1,600 (4 full-time months at $400/month) and a textbook amount of $260 (4 full-time months at $65/month). Your total tuition, education, and textbook amounts are $6,360. You used $2,000 of this amount to reduce your tax payable to zero. 
Once the student has completed their tax return and reduced their taxable income to zero, they can then transfer any unused current-year tuition and education amounts. The annual maximum transferable from a student to a supporting parent or spouse is $5,000. The student must authorize the transfer by completing and signing the back of their Tuition and Education Certificate T2202A. The end result is that the student gets a full refund of any taxes paid during the year plus the GST credit, and the supporting parent or spouse obtains an additional $1,100 tax refund (on average) from a $5,000 tuition and education credit transfer. Working Enterprises Tax Services Ltd.