Directions. Salt and pepper both sides of the pork chops. Combine the flour and some cayenne, salt and black pepper. Dredge each side of the pork chops in the flour mixture, and then set aside on a plate. Heat the canola oil over medium to medium-high heat. Add the butter. When the butter is melted and the butter/oil mixture is hot, cook 3 pork chops at a time, 2 to 3 minutes on the first side. Flip and cook until the chops are golden brown on the other side, 1 to 2 minutes (make sure no pink juices remain)
1 For each of these methods, if you re using lamb chops, cook them to your liking, if you go for pork, make sure they re cooked all the way through and that no pink remains. 2  All these timings work for lamb chops (approximately 150g each and 3cm thick) or pork chops (approximately 300g each and 3cm thick). If using pork, use tongs to hold the chops up on the fat edge to give it a bit of colour for a minute or so at the end. Make sure you re only cooking as many chops as you have room for in the pan or griddle, they shouldn t be touching each other cook them in batches if necessary.
1 Place oil in large cast iron skillet (or heavy stainless steel skillet) and heat until medium hot. 2  Place chops in the pan, placing them so they don't touch each other. 3  Cook each side slowly (lower heat if necessary) until nice and golden brown on each side. 4  This will take about 4 minutes per side. 1 Sprinkle the salt, thyme and pepper on the pork chops. 2  Let sit on counter top for 30 minutes. 3 
The nice thing about cooking chops in a frying pan or on a griddle is that you can put other ingredients in the pan with them and they ll pick up lots of extra flavour from the chops as they cook. Try tomatoes, courgettes or peppers. If using pork, use tongs to hold the chops up on the fat edge to give it a bit of colour for a minute or so at the end. Make sure you re only cooking as many chops as you have room for in the pan or griddle, they shouldn t be touching each other cook them in batches if necessary.
1 Let sit on counter top for 30 minutes. 2  Place oil in large cast iron skillet (or heavy stainless steel skillet) and heat until medium hot. 3  Place chops in the pan, placing them so they don't touch each other. 4  Cook each side slowly (lower heat if necessary) until nice and golden brown on each side. 1 Sprinkle the salt, thyme and pepper on the pork chops. 2  Let sit on counter top for 30 minutes. 3
In a frying pan or griddle. If using pork, use tongs to hold the chops up on the fat edge to give it a bit of colour for a minute or so at the end. Make sure you re only cooking as many chops as you have room for in the pan or griddle, they shouldn t be touching each other cook them in batches if necessary.
Directions. 1  Sprinkle the salt, thyme and pepper on the pork chops. 2  Let sit on counter top for 30 minutes. 3  Place oil in large cast iron skillet (or heavy stainless steel skillet) and heat until medium hot. 4  Place chops in the pan, placing them so they don't touch each other. 1
Add 2 more cups of cold water to bring the temperature of the brine down to room temperature. Place the pork chops in a shallow dish and pour the brine over top. The brine should cover the chops — if not, add additional water and salt (1 cup water to 1 tablespoon salt) until the chops are submerged. Cover the dish and refrigerate for 30 minutes or up to 4 hours. 
1 Place pork chops in a baking pan. 2  Spread 1 teaspoon of butter over each chop, then spread 1 teaspoon of mayonnaise over butter. 3  Season each one with seasoning salt, pepper and parsley. 4  Sprinkle 1/4 cup cheese over the top of each pork chop. 1 Preheat oven to 350 degrees F (180 degrees C). 2  Place pork chops in a baking pan. 3  Spread 1 teaspoon of butter over each chop, then spread 1 teaspoon of mayonnaise over butter. 4
How to Oven-Fry Chops. For hands-off cooking, try this simple oven method. You can use either boneless or bone-in chops for this method. 1  Preheat oven to 425 degrees F. 2  As in pan-frying Steps 2 through 4 (above), dip the pork chops in egg mixture and breading. 3  You don't need to flatten the meat as in Step 1. 4  Arrange coated chops in a single layer in a shallow baking pan.