Beach holidays in September. If you want beach holidays, there are plenty of places in the Med where you can find perfect spots. We recommend the Costa de la Luz in the south-west corner Spain and the tiny, sleepy Greek island of Paxos.
You will be spoilt for choices in the sparkling cities of USA so check out our calendar for best places to visit in the USA in 2015 with recommended cities depending on your mood for travel. 
Also, the towns, cities and villages of the northern US regions are some of the best places to travel in September. Some of the most popular cities, villages, and towns to visit include: - the town of Marquette in Michigan’s upper peninsula. - the lovely Victorian seaport city of Astoria in Oregon. 
Top 10 holiday destinations-September. SEPTEMBER is all about cities starting with a 'b': Beijing, originally a walled bastion for emperors and officials, is a majestic political and architectural marvel, and during autumn the city's temperature is just right for a visit to take in all its sights. 
So the destinations below are recommendations that Where to Holiday think are some of the best places to go in September with sizzling sunshine and minimal rain to offer you the best possible September holiday choices. If you are looking for places that are hot in September or simply interesting holiday destinations that are outside of the hurricane season, then we've put some of our top September holidays and recommendations below. Our Top September Recommended Destinations ...
In America, it is time again to visit North America: Arizona, Nevada, Colorado, Utah and New Mexico are places worth considering at present but the USA in general is great at this time as you avoid the summer heat waves and winter chills. Namibia is also in its winter period therefore dry and sunny; September is the height of their tourist season. Now is also a good time to visit northern Africa where the temperatures are hot, but not scorching, at present but still with lovely light.
As the summer holiday season winds down, September is the perfect time to get an off-peak deal or some late sun. Here are our choices for the best places to go on holiday in September. 
There are plenty of hot holiday destinations to visit in September, the summer holiday season is just winding down, which is ideal as high seasons will often be more expensive and more crowded. If you are looking for places that are hot in September or simply interesting holiday destinations that are outside of the hurricane season, then we've put some of our top September holidays and recommendations below. Our Top September Recommended Destinations ...
While more cheap destinations have better weather in September on a global scale, the Americas are still in an in-between phase, with chilly temperatures in most of South America, and the rainy season in full effect in Central America. Europe. September might be the best month of the year to visit Europe for the budget traveler. Most of the cheaper cities in the south have great weather, and crowds have already thinned out from the August peaks. For a late sunshine holiday check out the cheapest beach destinations in Europe.