Credit Score Range. Take a look at the example FICO ® Scores report and you can see that it shows your FICO ® Scores in big bold numbers as well as a general indication of how your score relates to other U.S. consumers (poor to exceptional). Base FICO® Scores range from 300-850, and industry-specific FICO® Scores range from 250-900 — higher is better. For more information, see the What's in your score page. Your FICO ® Scores are calculated using the information in your credit reports.
While the actual FICO credit number score you get is important, so is the range where it falls on the credit score scale. While the range is between three hundred and eight hundred and fifty, the median FICO score is seven hundred and twenty three. So no matter whether you have a good score or a bad one, the credit score range will always be within 300 and 850. You should also know that your score is usually not constant – it will keep changing. For instance, if you have taken a home mortgage, your score will improve with each monthly repayment.
Good credit score: 680 to 719. A credit report score in the 680-and-up range is good news for you. You can still get decent terms from lenders, although not as nice as those offered to borrowers with truly excellent credit scores. Actually, a score of 600 is a poor credit score. Your credit score directly affects how much money your loans and other types of financing will cost you over your lifetime.
If you are referring to FICO scores, the score range is from 300 to 850. For many years Fair Isaac and Company (FICO) reported the median national credit score but unfortunately they stopped providing that information. When you apply for a credit card or mortgage, there’s a good chance the creditor is basing the decision on your FICO scores (you have three, one each from Equifax, Experian and TransUnion). If you want to know how good (or bad) your score is, what you really should be doing is basing that decision on your FICO scores.
A credit score is a three-digit number, typically between 300 to 850, which credit bureaus calculate based on information in your credit report. The Equifax Credit Score is based on an Equifax Credit Score model and is not the same as scores used by 3rd parties to assess your creditworthiness. 1. Get your Equifax Credit Report and Score for $15.95. Equifax Credit Report and Score retail price is $15.95.
Source: Sean MacEntee via Flickr. It's a lot easier and cheaper to borrow money if you have a good credit score. The range of what's considered a good score depends in part on which credit scoring method the lender is using to make its decisions. Most common credit scoring methods are also known as FICO scores, since they were developed by Fair Isaac and Company. Your credit score is a key factor in determining whether you can borrow money, how much money you can borrow, and what it costs for you to borrow money. For instance, searching on Bankrate for a 30-year fixed rate $250,000 mortgage with a 20% down payment recently delivered the following rates: Credit Score.
Excellent credit score: 720 and Up. Credit scores in this range will open up the best interest rates and repayment terms for loans. If you want to make major purchases, such as an investment property, this credit score range is where you want to be. Actually, a score of 600 is a poor credit score. Your credit score directly affects how much money your loans and other types of financing will cost you over your lifetime.
1 Equifax offers your FICO score and Equifax credit report for $19.95. 2  Be careful, because it also offers its credit report with the less-useful Equifax score for $15.95, or $39.95 for reports from all three bureaus. 3  There is also an ongoing credit-monitoring option that includes your FICO score for $14.95 a month. 1 FICO score: This is by far the most widely used credit score. 2  Your main FICO score ranges from a low of 300 to a high of 850. 3  FICO gathers information for its scores from Equifax, Experian, and TransUnion, which are the three major credit reporting agencies.
FICO and the Credit Score Range. FICO is the acronym of the “Fair Isaac & Company”. This is the company that came out with the mathematical calculation based on which the credit score and the credit score range is determined. Credit score is thus often also referred to as the “FICO score”. So no matter whether you have a good score or a bad one, the credit score range will always be within 300 and 850. You should also know that your score is usually not constant – it will keep changing. For instance, if you have taken a home mortgage, your score will improve with each monthly repayment.