Chemical Precipitation. Precipitation is the creation of a solid. When the reaction occurs in a liquid solution, the solid formed is called the 'precipitate'.The chemical that causes the solid to form is called the 'precipitant'. The precipitate-free liquid remaining above the solid is called the 'supernate' or 'supernatant'. Powders derived from precipitation have also historically been known as 'flowers'. Sometimes the formation of a precipitate indicates the occurrence of a chemical reaction.
Precipitates can form when two soluble salts react in solution to form one or more insoluble products-as discussed in the famous example below. The insoluble product separates from the liquid and is called a precipitate. Precipitates can also form when the temperature of a solution is lowered. 
A chemical reaction, in which two compounds react to form a precipitate and another product is present inside the aqueous medium is said to be a precipitation reaction. A single or double displacement reaction makes up the precipitate reaction. These are also called as ionic equations. Thus, on reaction between silver nitrate and sodium chloride, the silver chloride formed is the precipitate and thus this is a precipitation reaction. Example: 2. In the above reaction, calcium chloride formed is the precipitate, since its an insoluble salt. Calcium hydroxide forms a white precipitate.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Precipitate is a solid formed in a chemical reaction of 2 solutions. The barium in the Barium Chloride reacts with the Sulphur in the Sodium Sulphate to create a white powder called Barium Sulphate which sinks to the bottom of the liquid. Here's a picture: http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/co... 
Precipitation Reactions A precipitate is a solid that forms out of solution. A common example is that of the mixing of two clear solutions: (1) silver nitrate (AgNO3) and (2) sodium chloride (NaCl): The reaction is The precipitate forms because the solid (AgCl) is insoluble in water. A precipitate is a solid that forms out of solution. A common example is that of the mixing of two clear solutions: (1) silver nitrate (AgNO3) and (2) sodium chloride (NaCl): The reaction is.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A precipitate forms when the product of a chemical reaction is insoluble in the solvent being used. It will make the solution cloudy or if it is heavy will form a sludge inthe bottom of the reaction vessel. During chemical reactions, precipitation may also occur particularly if an insoluble substance is introduced into a solution and the density happens to be greater (otherwise the precipitate would float or form a suspension). Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Precipitati... jm · 5 years ago.
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Precipitate Definition: to form an insoluble compound either by reacting two salts or by changing the temperature to affect the solubility of the compound. Also the name given to the solid that is formed as a result of a precipitation reaction. Example: Mixing silver nitrate and sodium chloride in water will cause silver chloride to precipitate out of solution as a solid. Return to the Chemistry Glossary Index
The precipitation reaction is one of them, which results in the formation of precipitate (insoluble product). Therefore, the precipitate is the insoluble solid that forms during the chemical reaction and separates out in solution. The chemical reaction in the above equation is the formation of silver chloride solid. In this. process, only the silver ion and the chloride ion react together to produce sliver chloride solid. The above concept can also be applied to other chemical reactions where the pure liquid and the. gas are formed.
Precipitation is the formation of a solid in a solution or inside another solid during a chemical reaction or by diffusion in a solid. During chemical reactions, precipitation may also occur particularly if an insoluble substance is introduced into a solution and the density happens to be greater (otherwise the precipitate would float or form a suspension). Source(s): http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Precipitati... jm · 5 years ago.