Taxonomy is the science of naming living things. Domains and kingdoms are categories used to group organisms that are structurally and genetically similar. Domains. Bacteria. These single-celled organisms are known as prokaryotes. Example: Streptococcus (the bacteria that causes strep throat). 
All species of large complex organisms are eukaryotes, including animals, plants and fungi, although most species of eukaryote are protist microorganisms. Domain Eukaryota is taxonomically devided into seven kingdoms. Cell division in eukaryotes is different from prokaryotes that lack a nucleus. Eukaryota is one of the three domains of life contianing organisms whose cells contain complex structures enclosed within complex membranes call endomembranes. These organisms are called Eukaryotes and are either singular-or multiple-celled.
Under this system, organisms are classified into three domains and six kingdoms. The domains are Archaea, Bacteria, and Eukarya. The kingdoms are Archaebacteria (ancient bacteria), Eubacteria (true bacteria), Protista, Fungi, Plantae, and Animalia. The Archaea and Bacteria domains contain prokaryotic organisms. These are organisms that do not have a membrane bound nucleus. 
These remarkable organisms are now placed in the domain Archaea. Other prokaryotes, including eubacteria and cyanobacteria, are placed in the domain Bacteria. All the kingdoms of eukaryotes, including Protista (Protoctista), Fungi, Plantae and Animalia, are placed in the domain Eukarya. The large molecular differences between the majority of prokaryotes in the kingdom Monera and the archaebacteria warrants a separation based on categories above the level of kingdom.
2. Organisms can be classified into one of three domains based on differences in the sequences of nucleotides in the cell's ribosomal RNAs (rRNA), the cell's membrane lipid structure, and its sensitivity to antibiotics. 3. The three domains are the Archaea, the Bacteria, and the Eukarya. 4. Prokaryotic organisms belong either to the domain Archaea or the domain Bacteria; organisms with eukaryotic cells belong to the domain Eukarya. 5. Microorganism transfer genes to other microorganisms through horizontal gene transfer-the transfer of DNA to an organism that is not its offspring. 
The six kingdoms of living things are divided into two major groups, Prokaryotes and Eukaryotes. There are two prokaryote kingdoms and four eukaryote kingdoms. There are huge fundamental differences between the ways these two groups go about living. Here is just the briefest of distinctions. Eukaryotes have a separate membrane bound nucleus, numerous mitochondria and other organelles such as the Golgi Body within each of their cells. These areas are separated off from the main mass of the cell's cytoplasm by their own membrane in order to allow them to be more specialised.
Eukaryotes are organisms, including humans, whose cells have a well defined membrane-bound nucleus (containing chromosomal DNA) and organelles. The division between prokaryotes and eukaryotes reflects the existence of two very different levels of cellular organization. Another difference is that ribosomes in prokaryotes are smaller than in eukaryotes. However, two organelles found in many eukaryotic cells, mitochondria and chloroplasts, contain ribosomes similar in size and makeup to those found in prokaryotes.
Eukaryotic cells are typically much larger than those of prokaryotes. They have a variety of internal membrane-bound structures, called organelles, and a cytoskeleton composed of microtubules, microfilaments, and intermediate filaments, which play an important role in defining the cell's organization and shape. Eukaryotes belong to the taxon Eukarya or Eukaryota. The defining feature that sets eukaryotic cells apart from prokaryotic cells (Bacteria and Archaea) is that they have membrane-bound organelles, especially the nucleus, which contains the genetic material, and is enclosed by the nuclear envelope.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A phylogenetic tree based on rRNA data, showing the separation of bacteria, archaea, and eukaryotes. The three-domain system is a biological classification introduced by Carl Woese et al. in 1977 that divides cellular life forms into archaea, bacteria, and eukaryote domains. To reflect these primary lines of descent, he treated each as a domain, divided into several different kingdoms. Woese initially used the term kingdom to refer to the three primary phylogenic groupings, and this nomenclature was widely used until the term domains was adopted in 1990.
The word prokaryote comes from the Greek πρό- (pro -) before and καρυόν (karyon)  nut or kernel . Prokaryotes can be divided into two domains, Archaea and Bacteria, with the remainder of species, called eukaryotes, in the third domain Eukaryota. Another difference is that ribosomes in prokaryotes are smaller than in eukaryotes. However, two organelles found in many eukaryotic cells, mitochondria and chloroplasts, contain ribosomes similar in size and makeup to those found in prokaryotes.