1 A body piercing typically costs $40 to $85 or more for a medusa (a piercing above the lip), the tongue web or the surface of the body, such as at the nape of the neck. 2  Body piercings are considered cosmetic and are not covered by medical insurance. Related articles: Tattoo, Tattoo Removal, Acupuncture. 1  A body piercing typically costs $20 to $55 for earlobes, ear cartilage or cheek. 2  A body piecing typically costs $30 to $65 for the eyebrow, nose, navel or nipple.
I personally do not have my cartilage pierced but most places do a piercing for free you pay the cost of the jewlery. My friend got hers done at piercing podoga and she … payed $8.49, which is fairly cheap. An industrial  piercing is just another type of cartilage piercing.   …  Depending on the anatomy of your upper ear, you could potentially  have quite a few piercings there, including an industrial and 1 or  more helix piercings.
You have to be 18 to get a piercing without parental consent. It usually costs between 20-30 dollars depending on where you go and the location of where it is. When you get the piercing the person who did it usually will give first-timers a solution to keep it clean. Get it done by a professional, not some person with a gun! Guns crack cartilage and are not sterile at all Usually between $25 - $50 Clean it with sea salt soaks :) Cons-hard to sleep on for a while, takes a while to heal Pros-looks super cute :) xox.
1 A body piercing typically costs $20 to $55 for earlobes, ear cartilage or cheek. 2  A body piecing typically costs $30 to $65 for the eyebrow, nose, navel or nipple. Related articles: Tattoo, Tattoo Removal, Acupuncture. 1  A body piercing typically costs $20 to $55 for earlobes, ear cartilage or cheek. 2  A body piecing typically costs $30 to $65 for the eyebrow, nose, navel or nipple.
I've gotten piercings done there before and I was fine. The price of the piercing will vary depending on the earring you want to get. They're also going to charge you a fee of $2.50 for piercing your cartilage. And I don't know about the Claire's by you, but the one by me won't do it unless you're at least 14 I believe. ♥. ♥so flyy · 8 years ago.
Report Abuse. Piercings are free, the earrings cost. And it doesn't matter where on the ear you are getting it, it's all the same price. Claire's is kinda expensive, when I was younger I got my 2nd piercing on the lobe for $40 (2 birthstone earrings). You should go to Walmart. I got both of my cartilages pierced there for $12. Hopefully i'm getting my cartilage pierced tommorow at claires does anyone have an idea about how much the earings cost i know the piercing is free when you buy them.Do not try to talk me out of geting my cartilage pierced at claires.I have had hunders of friends who have had there cartilage pierced with a gun...
I personally do not have my cartilage pierced but most places do a piercing for free you pay the cost of the jewlery. My friend got hers done at piercing podoga and she payed $8.49, which is fairly cheap. How much money does it cost to get a dermal piercing? Dermal piercings generally cost between $30-80 dollars, Cheap is not better in this case, so if you really want it done well, save up some money.
How much does helix piercing cost. It is not too expensive and the cost varies from one shop to the other. However the cost approximately ranges from $20 to $50, also depending on the reputation of the shop. 
1 A body piecing typically costs $30 to $65 for the eyebrow, nose, navel or nipple. 2  A body piercing typically costs $40 to $85 or more for a medusa (a piercing above the lip), the tongue web or the surface of the body, such as at the nape of the neck. Related articles: Tattoo, Tattoo Removal, Acupuncture. 1  A body piercing typically costs $20 to $55 for earlobes, ear cartilage or cheek. 2  A body piecing typically costs $30 to $65 for the eyebrow, nose, navel or nipple.