How to Make Nigerian Chin Chin. Chin Chin is a crunchy deep-fried snack that originated from Nigeria. It is an ideal light refreshment for you and your guests. The Nigerian Chin Chin can last for weeks if stored in an airtight container. How to Make Nigerian Chin Chin [Video]. With no baking involved in this recipe, Chin Chin is one of the easiest Nigerian snacks to make. To make some Nigerian Chin Chin, you will need the following ingredients.
Chin Chin is a deep fried Nigerian snack made primarily from flour, sugar, butter and eggs. It is very often, sweet and crunchy and shaped into mock 1 inch cubes. Chin Chin is quite simple to make and doesn’t require a whole lot of fussing. It is also, often found as a street snack in Nigeria or even in supermarkets and is sold in clear/transparent plastic/ziploc type bags. 
1 Note: If you are using powdered milk, mix the milk and sugar. 2  Then add 150ml of water for soft chin chin (75ml of water for crunchy chin chin), mix and leave to soak. 3  One way to get the sugar to dissolve fast is to grind it in a dry mill before mixing it with other ingredients. How to Make Nigerian Chin Chin [Video]. With no baking involved in this recipe, Chin Chin is one of the easiest Nigerian snacks to make. To make some Nigerian Chin Chin, you will need the following
Here's a video on How to Make Nigerian Chin Chin and below is a detailed recipe for you to follow.Enjoy! Ingredients for Nigerian Chin Chin. •1kg of All purpose Flour(Plain Flour) •200g of Margarine •150 ml whole milk(100ml of evaporated milk or 75ml Condensed milk or 70g of powdered milk). As for the soft chin chin dear, it would harden a bit after frying, but may not be very crunchy. And yes dear, you can use wheat flour. 1 cup of all-purpose flour replace with ¾ cup of whole wheat flour. 1 kilo all purpose flour replaced with 750gram
Now let’s go into the kitchen. To make crunchy chin chin, you will need the following ingredients. 1  For this tutorial, you will need 4 cups of all purpose flour or wheat flour. 2  150g of Margarine or Butter. 3  150g Granulated sugar. 4  Half cup of milk. 5  3 Eggs… you can add more depending on how soft you want it. May 20, 2014 – Nigerian Chin Chin Recipe: How To Make Crunchy Chin Chin, Naija Cookies. Welcome to the 4th episode of Naija Kitchen. Today we’ll be learning how to make a very popular and delicious Nigerian snack called Chin Chin.
1 Mix the milk and sugar in a bowl and leave to soak. 2  Note: If you are using powdered milk, mix the milk and sugar. 3  Then add 150ml of water for soft chin chin (75ml of water for crunchy chin chin), mix and leave to soak. How to Make Nigerian Chin Chin [Video]. With no baking involved in this recipe, Chin Chin is one of the easiest Nigerian snacks to make. To make some Nigerian Chin Chin, you will need the following ingredients.
To make crunchy chin chin, you will need the following ingredients. 1  For this tutorial, you will need 4 cups of all purpose flour or wheat flour. 2  150g of Margarine or Butter. 3  150g Granulated sugar. 4  Half cup of milk. May 20, 2014 – Nigerian Chin Chin Recipe: How To Make Crunchy Chin Chin, Naija Cookies. Welcome to the 4th episode of Naija Kitchen. Today we’ll be learning how to make a very popular and delicious Nigerian snack called Chin Chin.