DNA has a double helix structure. The outer edges are formed by alternating deoxyribose sugar molecules and phosphate groups, which make up the sugar-phosphate backbone. The two strands run in opposite directions, one going in a 3' to 5' direction and the other going in a 5' to 3' direction.
Deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) stores information for the synthesis of specific proteins. DNA has deoxyribose as its sugar. DNA consists of a phosphate group, a sugar, and a nitrogenous base. The structure of DNA is a helical, double-stranded macromolecule with bases projecting into the interior of the molecule. These two strands are always complementary in sequence.
DNA Replication is Semi-Conservative. DNA replication of one helix of DNA results in two identical helices. If the original DNA helix is called the parental DNA, the two resulting helices can be called daughter helices. Each of these two daughter helices is a nearly exact copy of the parental helix (it is not 100% the same due to mutations).
This chapter discusses the chemotherapy intervention by inhibiting DNA polymerases. A fundamental feature of all cancers is their hyperproliferative nature that is defined by uncontrollable and, in some cases, pro-mutagenic DNA replication.
The first step in DNA replication is the separation of the two DNA strands that make up the helix that is to be copied. DNA Helicase untwists the helix at locations called replication origins. The replication origin forms a Y shape, and is called a replication fork.
These RNA molecules are therefore called messenger-RNA (mRNA). To summarize: a gene is a stretch of DNA that contains a pattern for the amino acid sequence of a protein. In order to actually make this protein, the relevant DNA segment is first copied into messenger-RNA.
There are two types of nucleic acids, ribonucleic acids (RNA) and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) . Recall that a nucleoside is a base + sugar. A Nucleotide is composed of a base + sugar + phosphate. The deoxy-prefix in Deoxyribonucleotides is the nomenclature used for DNA.