Find out where is South East Asia located. The location map of South East Asia below highlights the geographical position of South East Asia within Asia on the world map. South East Asia location highlighted on the world map. South East Asia is located on the south-eastern part of the Asian continent. The term is generally referred to the region of the countries of Myanmar, Cambodia, Vietnam, Thailand, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, East Timor, Brunei, Philippines, Laos. You are here: World map Asia South East Asia. Other maps of South East Asia. 
Confidence votes 54. Asia is the largest single continent, located between Europe and Africa and the Pacific Ocean, which is right above Antarctica. Asia is bordered on the east by Europe and Asia Minor and the  Pacific Ocean on the west. On the north, it is bordered by the  Arctic region.
Find out where is East Asia located. The location map of East Asia below highlights the geographical position of East Asia within Asia on the world map. East Asia location highlighted on the world map. East Asia is located on the eastern part of the Asian continent. The term is generally referred to the region of the countries of China, Taiwan, Mongolia, North Korea, South Korea and Japan. You are here: World map Asia East Asia.
The continent of Asia is the world's largest and most populous continent with over 4 billion people calling Asia home. Asia also contains the world's most populous country, China, and the world's largest country, Russia. Asia borders Africa and Europe to the west and the Pacific Ocean to the east. 
Asia Description. As the largest and most populous continent in the world with just over 3.8 billion people, Asia is composed of a wide variety of ethnic groups, cultures, environments, economics, historical ties, and governmental systems. In the west, Asia is bordered by Europe, the eastern coastline of the Mediterranean Sea, as well by the Sea of Marmara, the Bosporus Strait, the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea.
it is located in Asia Answer Asia Minor was the name given to the area of Asia from the Black Sea to the north, Georgia to the northeast, the Armenian Highland to the east, … Mesopotamia to the southeast, the Mediterranean Sea to the south and the Aegean Sea to the west. Answer   Countries located in the Middle East region that are also on the Asian continent are part of Asia but people simply refer to the region as the Middle East and ex … clude these countries when making reference to Asia.
Explore Map of Asia: Asia is located primarily in the eastern and northern hemispheres. The Asian continent covers 8.6 percent of the Earth's total surface area, or 30 percent of the Earth's total land area. With approximately four billion people, Asia hosts 60 percent of the world's population. 
The most commonly accepted boundaries place Asia to the east of the Suez Canal, the Ural River, and the Ural Mountains, and south of the Caucasus Mountains and the Caspian and Black Seas. It is bounded on the east by the Pacific Ocean, on the south by the Indian Ocean and on the north by the Arctic Ocean. 
Southeast Asia is a subregion of Asia, roughly be described as geographically situated east of the Indian subcontinent, south of China and north of Australia, between the Indian Ocean (in west) and the Pacific Ocean (in east). Regions in South-East Asia. 
Asia is located North East of Africa, and West North West of Australia, and West of U.S.A. Generally between: 5°N and 80°N and between 35°E and about 180°E. by: Fenella Name. Asia is the largest continent, located between Europe and Africa and the Pacific Ocean, just above Australia. Photo compliments of Answers.com. 1  Asia is a construction of man. 2  One must understand this if they seek to know where Asia begins/ends. Answer   Countries located in the Middle East region that are also on the Asian continent are part of Asia but people simply refer to the region as the Middle East and ex … clude these countries when making reference to Asia.