Employees who receive annual increases in their pay typically receive a percentage increase. This increase is sometimes referred to as a salary increment. This percentage adds to the employee's existing base salary. For example, when management approves a 3 percent raise for all sales employees, each employee's salary is increased by 3 percent. One-time increments are typically paid out during a single pay period. For example, a school district that decides to pay its teachers an increment of 2 percent might distribute it during the sixth pay period of the year.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: increase (Noun). An amount by which a quantity is increased. increase (Noun). For a quantity, the act or process of becoming larger. increase (Verb). to become larger. increase (Verb). To make (a quantity) larger. 
1 An equity increase/salary adjustment is a pay increase based on the belief that an employee’s current pay is too low given the significant swings in the internal or external “markets” for his/her specific skills and abilities. Salary Actions. Review the proposed salary, or propose an equitable salary, ensuring that the employee's salary is appropriately set within the salary range relative to their qualifications (relevant experience, education, performance level), and relative to other employees in the position or similar positions.
1. a process of becoming larger or longer or more numerous or more important. 2. the amount by which something increases. Familiarity information: INCREMENT used as a noun is rare. Hypernyms (increment is a kind of...): amount (how much of something is available). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of increment): amplification; gain (the amount of increase in signal power or voltage or current expressed as the ratio of output to input).
Salary Increments. The word increment means an increase in something. A salary increment is simply an increase in your salary -- a pay raise. A salary is usually stated as an annual amount. For example, you might be hired at a salary of $35,000 per year. Salary increments are also stated as annual sums. 
Equity Increase. 1  An equity increase/salary adjustment is a pay increase based on the belief that an employee’s current pay is too low given the significant swings in the internal or external “markets” for his/her specific skills and abilities. Salary Actions. Review the proposed salary, or propose an equitable salary, ensuring that the employee's salary is appropriately set within the salary range relative to their qualifications (relevant experience, education, performance level), and relative to other employees in the position or similar positions.
A salary increment might be a one-time payment that substitutes for a bonus. An employer could use salary increments to compensate for higher health care costs or in place of medical care reimbursements. One-time increments are typically paid out during a single pay period. For example, a school district that decides to pay its teachers an increment of 2 percent might distribute it during the sixth pay period of the year. A teacher making a $40,000 annual salary would receive an incremental payment of $800
Full Definition of INCREASE. 1. : the act or process of increasing: as a: addition or enlargement in size, extent, or quantity b obsolete: propagation. 2. : something that is added to an original stock or amount by augmentation or growth (as offspring, produce, profit). — on the increase. 
Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of increment): relaxation ((physiology) the gradual lengthening of inactive muscle or muscle fibers). pullulation (a rapid and abundant increase). proliferation (a rapid increase in number (especially a rapid increase in the number of deadly weapons)). Hypernyms (increment is a kind of...): amount (how much of something is available). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of increment): amplification; gain (the amount of increase in signal power or voltage or current expressed as the ratio of output to input).