Pulsatilla is also used for tension headache, hyperactivity, trouble sleeping (insomnia), boils, asthma and other lung diseases, earache, migraines, nerve pain (neuralgia), general restlessness, disorders of the gastrointestinal (GI), and disorders of the urinary tract. More evidence is needed to rate the effectiveness of pulsatilla for these uses. 1  Conditions of the male or female reproductive system. 2  Tension headaches. 3  Migraine headaches. 4  Hyperactive states. 5  Trouble sleeping (insomnia). 6  Boils. 7  Skin diseases. 8  Asthma and other lung diseases. 9  Earache. 10  Nerve problems. 11  General restlessness. 12  Digestive tract problems. 13  U
Uses. Pulsatilla is used to treat eye problems such as cataracts and urinary tract infections, and is thought to lower arterial tension and reduce respiration. Pulsatilla is also used for spasmodic pain of both the male and female reproductive system and is also thought to relieve headaches and coughs. Dosage. When used as a tea to soothe respiratory problems, you should infuse ½ to 1 tsp. of the dried pulsatilla herb with 1 cup of boiling water, let it steep for 15 minutes and drink the infusion three times per day. When using pulsatilla as a tincture for skin problems, use 1 to 2 ml
Pulsatilla is a remedy that is called a polycrest, meaning it can be used for various problems and effects various systems in the body. Pulsatilla is a common homeopathic remedy for seasonal, constitutional, and chronic health concerns. Earaches following colds. Pulsatilla is a common sinus remedy. Pulsatilla is indicated for sinus complaints with excess mucous, often yellow or yellow-green mucous that is worse in the morning. Generally symptoms are worse at night and in a warm room.
Pulsatilla patens is the provincial flower of Manitoba, Canada and (as P. hirsutissima) is the state flower of South Dakota, United States. Pulsatilla vulgaris is the County flower for both Hertfordshire and Cambridgeshire in England. Pulsatilla vernalis is the county flower of Oppland, Norway. Pulsatilla is highly toxic, and produces cardiogenic toxins and oxytoxins which slow the heart in humans. Excess use can lead to diarrhea, vomiting and convulsions, hypotension and coma. It has been used as a medicine by Native Americans for centuries. Blackfoot Indians used it to induce abortions and childbirth.
Qty. Pulsatilla is one of the most used homeopathic remedies. Pulsatilla is used for many sinus conditions, such as excess mucous, plugged ears, earaches, runny nose, stuffy nose, coughs. Economy 1 oz bottle/680 pellets. 225 doses per bottle.Pulsatilla is used for first aid and chronic conditions. Pulsatilla is the chronic of Aconite.
A closer look at Pulsatilla. Keith Souter describes this medicine of many uses Pulsatilla nigricans is one of our oldest and most useful homeopathic med­icines. It was proved by Samuel Hahnemann in 1805 and was exten­sively used by him to treat many hun­dreds of patients. The homeopathic medicine Pulsatilla nigricans, usually just referred to as Pulsatilla, is made from the whole meadow anemone, also known as the pasqueflower or windflower. This per­ennial plant is a member of the Ranun­culaceae or buttercup family.
Extracts of Pulsatilla have been used to treat reproductive problems such as premenstrual syndrome and epididymitis. Additional applications of plant extracts include uses as a sedative and for treating coughs. It is also used as an initial ingredient in homeopathic remedies. Pulsatilla is highly toxic, and produces cardiogenic toxins and oxytoxins which slow the heart in humans. Excess use can lead to diarrhea, vomiting and convulsions, hypotension and coma. It has been used as a medicine by Native Americans for centuries. Blackfoot Indians used it to induce abortions and childbirth.
PULSATILLA Side Effects & Safety. Fresh pulsatilla plant is UNSAFE when taken by mouth or applied to the skin. It is a severe irritant anywhere it comes in contact with the body, such as the mouth, throat, digestive tract, urinary tract, and skin. It can also cause allergic reactions. Contact with the skin can cause rash, inflammation, and itching. More evidence is needed to rate the effectiveness of pulsatilla for these uses. 1  Conditions of the male or female reproductive system. 2  Tension headaches. 3  Migraine headaches. 4  Hyperactive states. 5  Trouble sleeping (insomnia). 6  Boils. 7  Skin diseases. 8  Asthma and other lung diseases. 9  Earache. 10  Nerve problems. 11  General restlessness. 12  Digestive tract problems. 13  U
The homeopathic medicine pulsatilla is prepared from the windflower or pasque flower plants. In fact, the diminutive pasque flowers have been used for medicinal purpose right from the Greek classical age. The flower has got its name from the word Pasch', an ancient term used to denote Easter. 