These are examples of a form of learning called operant conditioning. The definition of operant conditioning is a form of learning described by many behaviorists in which a response increases in frequency as a result of its being followed by reinforcement. In positive reinforcement, a stimulus is presented, and in negative reinforcement, a stimulus is removed. This is a very important concept. Negative reinforcement is often confused with punishment, but it is not. Punishment is a consequence that decreases the frequency of the response it follows.
The removal of an unpleasant reinforcer can also strengthen behavior. This is known as negative reinforcement because it is the removal of an adverse stimulus which is ‘rewarding’ to the animal or person. Negative reinforcement strengthens behavior because it stops or removes an unpleasant experience. Operant Conditioning deals with operants-intentional actions that have an effect on the surrounding environment. Skinner set out to identify the processes which made certain operant behaviours more or less likely to occur. Skinner's theory of operant conditioning was based on the work of Thorndike (1905).
operant conditioning. n. A process of behavior modification in which a subject is encouraged to behave in a desired manner through positive or negative reinforcement, so that the subject comes to associate the pleasure or displeasure of the reinforcement with the behavior. operant conditioning, a form of learning used in behavior therapy in which the person undergoing therapy is rewarded for the correct response and punished for the incorrect response. Also called instrumental conditioning, shaping
Operant conditioning is a form of learning. In it, an individual changes its behaviour because of the consequences (results) of the behaviour. The person or animal learns its behaviour has a consequence. That consequence may be. 1  Reinforcement: a positive or rewarding event. 2  This causes the behaviour to occur more often. 
Psychology. A learning process in which the likelihood of a specific behavior is increased or decreased through positive or negative reinforcement each time the behavior is exhibited, so that the subject comes to associate the pleasure or displeasure of the reinforcement with the behavior. instrumental conditioning-operant conditioning that pairs a response with a reinforcement in discrete trials; reinforcement occurs only after the response is given.
Below is a definition of operant conditioning. Operant Conditioning Definition Operant conditioning is a learning process that involves an increase or decrease in the likelihood of some behavior as a result of the consequences.
classical conditioning to odors of essential oils is an element in aromatherapy. operant conditioning. learning in which a particular response is elicited by a stimulus because that response produces desirable consequences (reward). Pavlovian conditioning. see classical conditioning (above). operant conditioning, a form of learning used in behavior therapy in which the person undergoing therapy is rewarded for the correct response and punished for the incorrect response. Also called instrumental conditioning, shaping
operant conditioning-conditioning in which an operant response is brought under stimulus control by virtue of presenting reinforcement contingent upon the occurrence of the operant response. instrumental conditioning-operant conditioning that pairs a response with a reinforcement in discrete trials; reinforcement occurs only after the response is given.
Shaping is a conditioning paradigm used primarily in the experimental analysis of behavior. The method used is differential reinforcement of successive approximations. It was introduced by B.F. Skinner with pigeons and extended to dogs, dolphins, humans and other species. Shaping is used in training operant responses in lab animals, and in applied behavior analysis to change human or animal behaviors considered to be maladaptive or dysfunctional. It also plays an important role in commercial animal training.