Definition. Long-term marketing support for a brand, based on the definition of the characteristics of the target consumers. It includes understanding of their preferences, and expectations from the brand. 
A brand (or marque for car model) is a name, term, design, symbol or other feature that distinguishes one seller's product from those of others. Brands are used in business, marketing, and advertising. A concept brand is a brand that is associated with an abstract concept, like breast cancer awareness or environmentalism, rather than a specific product, service, or business.
The word brand is often used as a metonym referring to the company that is strongly identified with a brand. Marque or make are often used to denote a brand of motor vehicle, which may be distinguished from a car model. A concept brand is a brand that is associated with an abstract concept, like breast cancer awareness or environmentalism, rather than a specific product, service, or business.
To understand branding, it is important to know what brands are. A brand is the idea or image of a specific product or service that consumers connect with, by identifying the name, logo, slogan, or design of the company who owns the idea or image. 
A brand isn’t a logo, catch-phrase or a jingle … though they are part of the mix. Rather, a brand, in its simplest definition, is the expectation that a customer has upon hearing your company name or seeing your logo. And expectations are, most often, formed by experiences. As a brand, every single interaction you have with your customers is a branding message. They are also the most time-crunched and probably most impatient group of consumers in history. And, in order to succeed, brands need to put the needs, expectations and experiences of their customers in the forefront in order to keep them engaged and interacting with your brand.
Brand is the experience that lives at the point where promise meets expectation. Therefore, the practice of Brand Expression must be multidisciplinary, as it fuses brand strategy (how the brand is defined) and brand identity (how the brand is articulated) . Brand Expression is the brand as defined and articulated by the organization. This integrates brand strategy and brand identity to express a multi-sensory brand experience through a portfolio of Brand Signals. These signals manage consumer expectations by carrying and conveying meaning, making it easier for people both inside and outside the organization to understand the brand's core purpose
Brand positioning refers to target consumers reason to buy your brand in preference to others. It is ensures that all brand activity has a common aim; is guided, directed and delivered by the brands benefits/reasons to buy; and it focusses at all points of contact with the consumer. In order to create a distinctive place in the market, a niche market has to be carefully chosen and a differential advantage must be created in their mind. Brand positioning is a medium through which an organization can portray its customers what it wants to achieve for them and what it wants to mean to them.