A person who eats 2,000 calories per day should eat 6 ounces of grain foods daily. At least half (3 ounces) of the grain foods eaten should be whole grains. Approximately one ounce of grain foods counts as a serving. This is about one slice of bread, one roll, or one small muffin. A woman over age 50 should consume about. 1  1,600 calories a day if her level of physical activity is low (only performs activities associated with typical day-to-day life)\. 2  1,800 calories daily if she is moderately active (walks the equivalent of 1.5 to 3 miles a day at 3 to 4 miles per hour).
1 Next, they’d figure out that 20-30% of 2500 calories is between 500-750 calories. 2  They’d then divide 500 and 750 by 9 (because there’s 9 calories per gram of fat) and get a range of 55-83. 3  So, in this example, this person would eat between 55-83 grams of fat per day. 1 They’d then divide 500 and 750 by 9 (because there’s 9 calories per gram of fat) and get a range of 55-83. 2
Consuming around 46 grams of protein per day if you're female and 56 grams per day if you're male will meet your protein needs, whether you get your protein from meat or from plant sources. A 3-ounce portion of meat contains 21 to 24 grams of protein. Three 3-ounce meat servings per day would supply all your protein needs, but this much meat could include a large amount of saturated fat, which could increase your risk of heart disease. What you do need is the nutrients that make up meat, such as amino acids -- the building blocks of protein -- fats, iron and other vitamins and minerals.
Protein. The 2010 Dietary Guidelines for Americans recommend specific amounts of each food group, based on the amount of calories you ingest daily. For example, if you take in 2,000 calories each day, you should consume about 5 1/2 ounces of protein daily. The protein group contains all types of meat, poultry, seafood, eggs, nuts and seeds, as well as legumes, which are protein-rich and also included in the vegetables group. Eating a nutritious, well-balanced diet with appropriate amounts of each food group is one way to guarantee good health. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, there are five basic food groups: fruits, vegetables, protein, grains and dairy.
A person who consumes 2,000 calories daily should eat about 5½ ounces of protein each day. You can get protein from seafood, lean meat and poultry, as well as eggs, beans and peas, tofu, nuts, and seeds. A woman over age 50 should consume about. 1  1,600 calories a day if her level of physical activity is low (only performs activities associated with typical day-to-day life)\. 2  1,800 calories daily if she is moderately active (walks the equivalent of 1.5 to 3 miles a day at 3 to 4 miles per hour).
The answer varies depending on the meat source, the weight and health of the person, the amount of exercise she/he gets, the gender and so forth. However, the average adult person should eat between 5 and 6 ounces of quality meat, or protein, daily. 
Five portions of fruit and veggies per day help people live longer-a team from the Karolinska Institute, Sweden, reported in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition (July 2013 issue) that if you eat your five-a-day portions of fruit-and-veggies you are likely to live longer. Calories are a measure of how much energy there is in the food we eat. By understanding calories you can work out how much food you need to eat. Different foods have varying number of calories per gram or ounce of weight. Below are some general daily calorie requirements for males and females.
Your intake of grain-based foods should total about 6 ounces daily if you consume 2,000 calories, with at least half of this amount from whole grains and the remainder from enriched grains. Whole-grain foods retain the bran, which is the fibrous, outer covering of the grain that provides dietary fiber. Eating a nutritious, well-balanced diet with appropriate amounts of each food group is one way to guarantee good health. According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, there are five basic food groups: fruits, vegetables, protein, grains and dairy.
Risks of Too Much Meat. Eating one serving per day of red meat might increase your risk of dying from cancer or heart disease by 13 percent, according to a Harvard School of Public Health study published in the April 2012 issue of the Archives of Internal Medicine.. What you do need is the nutrients that make up meat, such as amino acids -- the building blocks of protein -- fats, iron and other vitamins and minerals.
A person who eats 2,000 calories daily should not consume more than the equivalent of 6 teaspoons of oil daily. See a chart showing how much to eat from each food group to reach a daily calorie amount. A woman over age 50 should consume about. 1  1,600 calories a day if her level of physical activity is low (only performs activities associated with typical day-to-day life)\. 2  1,800 calories daily if she is moderately active (walks the equivalent of 1.5 to 3 miles a day at 3 to 4 miles per hour).