How to Fold a handsome origami dolphin. This dolphin may not be able to swim and jump around magnificently out of water and back in again, but it is very cute and a great way to hone your origami folding skills. 
Okay, so the next step for the origami dolphin, we're going to fold the front of the head, we're going to fold it back like this and then right back out again. That's a pleat fold, and that's so we get a nice nose, sort of like a bottle nose dolphin, just like that. So it's a pleat that goes back and forth. Like these Kid's Activities !!! Check out the official app http://apple.co/1ThDIrx. Watch more How to Make Origami videos: http://www.howcast.com/videos/510939-... So these are the instructions for an origami dolphin.
1: Start with an origami paper color side up. Make a valley fold from left to right (or right to left). Crease the fold well and unfold the paper. 2: Now make another valley fold, this time from bottom to top along the dash line as shown. Crease the fold well and unfold the paper. I have holiday,So i makes Origami For paper Dolphin.It's is very easy make and way to way. Follow Just make Dolphin way to way picture.
Transcript: How to Make an Origami Dolphin. For an origami dolphin, you want to start with a water bomb base, and that is this guy, the triangle with four flaps on it. Now, first you want to take one of those flaps and fold it about like that. Next, you're going to take all of these layers together and fold them to the edge. Crease it all the way across. So you're folding two points down, and then you're going to reverse fold one of those two points back up. You have an outside and an inside point. You want the inside point to reverse fold back up. And when you turn your paper over, origami dolphin.
I want to thin this down, not all the way to a point, but enough to right here, this is the bump at the top of the head right like that. Okay, so the next step for the origami dolphin, we’re going to fold the front of the head, we’re going to fold it back like this and then right back out again. That’s a pleat fold, and that’s so we get a nice nose, sort of like a bottle nose dolphin, just like that. So it’s a pleat that goes back and forth. Learn how to make an origami dolphin with this origami video from Howcast. So these are the instructions for an origami dolphin.
How to Make an Origami Dolphin. Learn how to make an origami dolphin with this origami video from Howcast. So these are the instructions for an origami dolphin. The first step, we’re going to take a sheet of paper
Lastly, we're going to reverse fold two points together here. So you're folding two points down, and then you're going to reverse fold one of those two points back up. You have an outside and an inside point. You want the inside point to reverse fold back up. And when you turn your paper over, origami dolphin.
Hello, I have holiday,So i makes Origami For paper Dolphin.It's is very easy make and way to way. Follow Just make Dolphin way to way picture.
Comment and Submit your photo using the comment box at the end of this page! Start with an origami water bomb base. Then valley fold approximately along the line shown. Valley fold again so that edge BC lies on top of egde AB. Valley fold approximately along the shown to form the dorsal (top) fin of the dolphin. Then valley fold again as shown. The origami piece should now look like this: Make a pleat as shown to start forming the nose of the dolphin. Next do an inside reverse fold to start forming the tail. Then reverse fold only the inner layer of the tail upwards. Make another valley fold to complete the flipper. Then do small valley folds on the nose to make a curved shape