Details. Provided a valid license plate number is submitted, our Florida License Plate Lookup is guaranteed to return the current registered owner’s name and address along with the vehicle make, model, year, vehicle identification number (VIN) and tag expiration date. The estimated return time for a license plate search is typically less than one business day, sometimes within hours. Our user-friendly interface allows you to place your order, submit the Florida license plate or VIN, and see results via our secure password-protected client back-end.
Not all states offer an online license plate lookup, license plate search or license plate owner lookup. Please visit our special license plate page to see if your state DMV offers this service, a license plate finder, or another alternative to search license plate availability. These tools are often helpful when you want to find a license plate number for your custom plate.
Fax : (219) 940-3926. US License Plate Search-Search a vehicle license plate number or vin for vehicle owner. Each License Plate Lookup is guaranteed to provide registered owner name, address, vehicle type, and vin listed on registration, or receive a REFUND. You Provide: State, License Plate Number (or vin), & Search Reason (view acceptable reasons). LICENSE PLATE SEARCH SCAM WARNINGOver 95% of license plate lookup sites on the web are scams. Beware especially of any site advertising INSTANT, FREE, or UNLIMITED license plate records. This is a ploy by link resource sites to trick people into paying for a member subscription.
You can usually find your license plate number on your registration card or certificate. Some states may also offer an online tag lookup or registration status search. Without your plate number, you may need other identifying information, such as your driver's license number or vehicle identification number (VIN). Please visit our special license plate page to see if your state DMV offers this service, a license plate finder, or another alternative to search license plate availability. These tools are often helpful when you want to find a license plate number for your custom plate.
Using a valid Florida License Plate or VIN number, you can identify the owner of a vehicle and other information. Simply provide docusearch with the license plate or VIN information, and you will receive your results in one business day. The results will include the vehicle owner's name, full address, make and model of vehicle, and leinholder information if applicable. http://www.docusearch.com/florida-lic... 
You can search with a vehicle identification number (VIN) , or you can search with a valid license plate number and state. Searching via a license plate and state is a terrific option if you can’t find the VIN, it’s hard to read or your car has. no VIN. In the box below, simply enter the license plate number and state. 
Your FL plate look up will generally provide you with the registered owner's name and address along with vehicle make, model, year, vehicle identification number (VIN) and tag expiration date. FL License Plate Search. License Plate Number. Our Florida License Plate Search allows you to search through DMV records & resources in all of the 50 states. There are a lot of reasons why you may need to find the owner of a car, such as for finding people for court cases. fraud, or accident investigation.
Our Florida License Plate Search allows you to perform this lookup by typing in the number of the license plate, or you can also search by the VIN number. Our Florida License Plate Search allows you to search through DMV records & resources in all of the 50 states. There are a lot of reasons why you may need to find the owner of a car, such as for finding people for court cases. fraud, or accident investigation.
What We Offer: Search through Florida DMV or HSMV records and vehicle history records. Lookup FL tag history on multiple vehicle registrations, Learn who owns a specific licence plate or tag number. Search Vehicle Tag numbers. Search, lookup, and conduct verification on registration of vehicles. 
To do it, though, you need to look for a team of investigators that are licensed to perform the search in your state. Docusearch only offers license plate lookups in states that we have direct access, currently 37 states (listed below). Each is searched by hand. If you head online to try and track down the name and address behind it, you’ll find a near-endless array of promises from license plate lookup companies. They’ll offer things like “free license plate lookups”, “instant results”, and even “unlimited searches”.