Harney Peak, which rises to 7,244 feet (2,208 m), is the range's highest summit. The Black Hills encompass the Black Hills National Forest. The name Black Hills is a translation of the Lakota Paha Pahá. Sapa sápa the hills-were so called because of their dark appearance from, a distance as they were covered. in trees Harney Peak, which rises to 7,244 feet (2,208 m), is the range's highest summit. The Black Hills encompass the Black Hills National Forest. The name Black Hills is a translation of the Lakota Paha Pahá. sapa sápa
Lakota Indians. The Lakota Indians are a tribal Native America group that resides in the northern part of the United States. Native Americans are considered the first nation of North America. 
The creation of Mount Rushmore is a story of struggle -- and to some, desecration. The Black Hills are sacred to the Lakota Sioux, the original occupants of the area when white settlers arrived. For some, the four presidents carved in the hill are not without negative symbolism. The Sioux have never had much luck dealing with white men.
The Black Hills were considered sacred by the Lakota, and they objected to mining. Between 1866 and 1868 the U. S. Army fought the Lakota and their allies along the Bozeman Trail over U. S. Forts built to protect miners traveling along the trail. Oglala Chief Red Cloud led his people to victory in Red Cloud's War. They were agriculturalists and may have been part of the Mound Builder civilization during the 9th–12th centuries CE. In the late 16th and early 17th centuries, Dakota-Lakota-Nakota speakers lived in the upper Mississippi Region in present-day Minnesota, Wisconsin, Iowa, and the Dakotas. Conflicts with Anishnaabe and Cree peoples pushed the Lakota west onto the Great Plains in the mid-to late-17th century
Large numbers of Lakota live in Rapid City and other towns in the Black Hills, and in metro Denver. Lakota elders joined the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organization (UNPO) to seek protection and recognition for their cultural and land rights. Lakota also live on the Fort Peck Indian Reservation in northeastern Montana, the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation of northwestern North Dakota, and several small reserves in Saskatchewan and Manitoba. Their ancestors fled to Grandmother's [i.e. Queen Victoria's] Land (Canada) during the Minnesota or Black Hills War.
Crazy Horse is the Lakota’s hero, and held in high esteem and legend by the tribe. The white man was his sworn enemy and he never gave up the fight for his people’s land or lower his tribe status by making contact or speaking with a white man, and speaking his mother tribe’s tongue. He lived and died a true Lakota. They are not the kind of people to get on the wrong side of, but fight their battles with strength and honour. They have a special relationship with their horses, which they see as their brothers, and the horse and his master will care and protect each other in times of battle. In the 17th Century they lived in Wisconsin, and in the forests in southern Minnesota where they had established reservations of many tribal generations. The name “Sioux” of which the native tribes are commonly known originates from the tribal name “Nadowe-is-iw”, the area of treacherous snakes near their settlements.
The Lakota Tribes of the Great Plains. The Lakota were one of the original native Americans tribes, often known as Red Indians, who lived and hunted all over the Rocky Mountain ranges before the arrival of European travellers. In the 17th Century they lived in Wisconsin, and in the forests in southern Minnesota where they had established reservations of many tribal generations. The name “Sioux” of which the native tribes are commonly known originates from the tribal name “Nadowe-is-iw”, the area of treacherous snakes near their settlements.
The Lakota are the western-most of the three Sioux-language groups, occupying lands in both North and South Dakota. The Lakota were originally referred to as the Dakota when they lived by the Great Lakes. Encroaching European-American settlement in Canada eventually led them to migrate west from the Great Lakes region. Lakota also live on the Fort Peck Indian Reservation in northeastern Montana, the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation of northwestern North Dakota, and several small reserves in Saskatchewan and Manitoba. Their ancestors fled to Grandmother's [i.e. Queen Victoria's] Land (Canada) during the Minnesota or Black Hills War.
Native Americans have a long history in the Black Hills. After conquering the Cheyenne in 1776, the Lakota took over the territory of the Black Hills, which became central to their culture. In 1868, the U.S. government signed the Fort Laramie Treaty of 1868, exempting the Black Hills from all white settlement forever. Harney Peak, which rises to 7,244 feet (2,208 m), is the range's highest summit. The Black Hills encompass the Black Hills National Forest. The name Black Hills is a translation of the Lakota Paha Pahá. sapa sápa