Centrioles. In animal cells, the centrosome serves to organize microtubules, major components of the cell's cytoskeleton, and plays an important role in cell division. The centrosome is composed of two centrioles, each of which contains nine bundles of microtubu
1 Centrioles are found as single structures in cilia and flagella in animal cells and some lower plant cells. 2  Centrioles are constructed of microtubules. 3  In animal cells centrioles organise the pericentriolar material to produce microtubules including mitotic spindle fibres. Centrioles are absent from the cells of higher plants. When animal cells undergo mitosis they are considered by some to benefit from the presence of centrioles which appear to control spindle fibre formation and which later has an effect on chromosome separation.
Animals have centrioles to form spindle fibers during prophase. The centriole divides cells. Plants do not have them because they have microtubules instead; they do not need centrioles. Plants are capable of forming a circular loop of microtubules around the future plane of division prior to prophase called the preprophase band, rather than centrosome. Basically-plants don't need it.
Plant cells do not have centrioles. Hence, the structure of the poles is different to that of the cells that possess centrioles. The poles of the cells of plants are broader when compared to the cells of animals. This is probably because of the absence of a cellular organelle that is defined to act as a f ocal point. Centrioles are made of nine bundles of microtubules, that are arranged in a ring. The centrioles play a major role in cell division. In animal cells the centrioles play a major role in cell division but the plant cells have the ability to reproduce even without the centrioles.
Within an animal cell centrosome there is a pair of small organelles, the centrioles, each made up of a ring of nine groups of microtubules. There are three fused microtubules in each group. The two centrioles are arranged such that one is perpendicular to the other. The centriole divides cells. Plants do not have them because they have microtubules instead; they do not need centrioles. Plants are capable of forming a circular loop of microtubules around the future plane of division prior to prophase called the preprophase band, rather than centrosome. Basically-plants don't need it.
All animal cells have two small organelles known as centrioles. The centrioles help the cell to divide. Centrioles are seen the process of mitosis and meiosis. The centrioles together are typically located near the nucleus in the centrosome. Centrioles are made of nine bundles of microtubules, that are arranged in a ring. The centrioles play a major role in cell division. In animal cells the centrioles play a major role in cell division but the plant cells have the ability to reproduce even without the centrioles.
Chloroplasts. Plants are autotrophs; they produce energy from sunlight through the process of photosynthesis, for which they use cell organelles called chloroplasts. Animal cells do not have chloroplasts. In animal cells, energy is produced from food (glucose) via the process of cellular respiration. Shape. 1  Another difference between plant cells and animal cells is that animal cells are round whereas plant cells are rectangular. 2  Further, all animal cells have centrioles whereas only some lower plant forms have centrioles in their cells.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: apparently centriloes are the bits that make the spindle fibres for cell division-and no one seems to know why plant cells dont have them, because they do have spindle fibres too! so-no. Source(s): prickle13 · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 
Plant and animal cells have several differences and similarities. For example, animal cells do not have a cell wall or chloroplasts but plant cells do. Animal cells are round and irregular in shape while plant cells have fixed, rectangular shapes. Shape. 1  Another difference between plant cells and animal cells is that animal cells are round whereas plant cells are rectangular. 2  Further, all animal cells have centrioles whereas only some lower plant forms have centrioles in their cells.