Micrococcus is a sphere-shaped (coccus/cocci generally means spherical), relatively harmless bacterium. It is very common on skin, and it can also be found in soil, water, and meat products. It is generally a saprophyte (meaning it feeds on dead and decomposing materials), and can cause spoilage of fish. This organism can also be responsible for causing human sweat to smell badly. Bacillus is a rod-shaped bacterium (“bacillus” means “rod”). Bacillus is a very hardy bacterium, as it has the ability to produce endospores – small, tough structures that can survive adverse conditions.
Bacterial diseases include any type of illness caused by bacteria. Bacteria are a type of microorganism, which are tiny forms of life that can only be seen with a microscope. Other types of microorganisms include viruses, some fungi, and some parasites. Harmful bacteria may also emit toxins that damage the body. Common pathogenic bacteria and the types of bacterial diseases they cause include: Escherichia coli and Salmonella cause food poisoning. Helicobacter pylori cause gastritis and ulcers. Neisseria gonorrhoeae causes the sexually transmitted disease gonorrhea. Neisseria meningitidis causes meningiti
2. Listeria monocytogenes-Listeria monocytogenes is a Gram-positive rod-shaped bacterium. It is anaerobic. The most common infection that these bacteria cause is Listeriosis. Symptoms of this infection are headaches, nausea and vomiting; however, if the infection spreads to the nervous system, it can cause meningitis. Although the vast majority of bacteria are harmless to humans, some do cause serious infections and diseases. Below are some of the names of common bacteria, including their shape and function. 1. Staphylococcus aureus-Staphylococcus aureus is a Gram-positive coccus (rounded shape) that is anaerobic. Staphylococcus aureus is also known as the golden cluster seed, golden staph and the seed gold
In most bacteria, a cell wall is present on the outside of the cell membrane. The cell membrane and cell wall comprise the cell envelope. A common bacterial cell wall material is peptidoglycan (called murein in older sources), which is made from polysaccharide chains cross-linked by peptides containing D-amino acids. Bacteria exhibit an extremely wide variety of metabolic types. The distribution of metabolic traits within a group of bacteria has traditionally been used to define their taxonomy, but these traits often do not correspond with modern genetic classifications.
There are typically 40 million bacterial cells in a gram of soil and a million bacterial cells in a millilitre of fresh water. There are approximately 5×10 30 bacteria on Earth, forming a biomass which exceeds that of all plants and animals. Bacteria exhibit an extremely wide variety of metabolic types. The distribution of metabolic traits within a group of bacteria has traditionally been used to define their taxonomy, but these traits often do not correspond with modern genetic classifications.
2. Some of the harmful types of bacteria are those which can cause disease or adversely affect one's health, and these include: Mycobacteria, which are rod-shaped, and neither Gram-positive nor Gram-negative microorganisms that can cause infections of the lungs, skin and other parts of the body. The most common diseases associated with these bacteria are leprosyand tuberculosis.
Harmful Bacteria. Some of the harmful types of bacteria are those which can cause disease or adversely affect one's health, and these include: Mycobacteria, which are rod-shaped, and neither Gram-positive nor Gram-negative microorganisms that can cause infections of the lungs, skin and other parts of the body. The most common diseases associated with these bacteria are leprosyand tuberculosis.
Bacteria are microscopic single-celled organisms that are all around us. They come in many different types, with many different ways to be categorized. One common way is by their morphology or shape. The three basic shapes of bacteria are spherical, rod shaped and spiral. Among the more common cocci are Staphylococcus aureus, which appears as a cluster of cocci. Staph aureus can often be found in the nose and on the skin without causing disease, but it is also responsible for causing conditions such as boils, pneumonia, meningitis and toxic shock syndrome.