The higher cost of capital associated with mezzanine financings is the result of its being an unsecured, subordinated (or junior) obligation in a company's capital structure (i.e., in the event of default, the mezzanine financing is only repaid after all senior obligations have been satisfied). Mezzanine financings can be structured either as debt (typically an unsecured and subordinated note) or preferred stock. Mezzanine capital is often a more expensive financing source for a company than secured debt or senior debt.
Since mezzanine financing is usually provided to the borrower very quickly with little due diligence on the part of the lender and little or no collateral on the part of the borrower, this type of financing is aggressively priced with the lender seeking a return in the 20-30% range. A hybrid of debt and equity financing that is typically used to finance the expansion of existing companies.
DEFINITION of 'Mezzanine Financing'. A hybrid of debt and equity financing that is typically used to finance the expansion of existing companies.
Often, a mezzanine has a low ceiling and projects in the form of a balcony. The term is also used for the lowest balcony in a theatre, or for the first few rows of seats in that balcony. The word mezzanine is borrowed from the French mezzanine, from the Italian mezzano (“middle”), from the Latin medianus. Mezzanine floors are often located between the ground floor and the floor above, but it is not unusual to have mezzanine floors in the upper floors of a building. In Palladian architecture the mezzanine is a low upper floor, usually for servants and/or storage.
In finance, mezzanine capital is any subordinated debt or preferred equity instrument that represents a claim on a company's assets which is senior only to that of the common shares. Mezzanine financings can be structured either as debt (typically an unsecured and subordinated note) or preferred stock. Mezzanine capital is often a more expensive financing source for a company than secured debt or senior debt.
Mezzanine debt or mezzanine capital is a form of hybrid capital that has been around for 30 years and which can be structured as either preferred equity or unsecured debt. It is generally referred to the layer of debt that sits between senior debt and equity. Although mezzanine debt is a form of debt financing, it is considered hybrid capital, since it may also incorporate equity instruments such as warrants. Other options may also play a role such as call options and rights.
Related Terms: Initial Public Offering; Leveraged Buyouts. Mezzanine financing is a hybrid between debt and equity. In a multi-tiered financing of an operation, for instances, the sources of money will be senior debt, senior subordinated debt, subordinated debt, mezzanine debt, and finally the owner's own equity. 