Anatomy of the Ankle. The ankle joint is surrounded by a synovial membrane that cushions and protects the bone ends that articulate the ankle joint. This membrane provides cushion and lubrication for the joint. 
Synovitis. Synovitis is an inflammation of the joint lining, called synovium. The symptoms are often of short duration and may change location although when caused by overuse tend to remain in one joint. The pain is usually more severe than expected based on the appearance of the joint on examination. 
JACKSONVILLE ANKLE SYNOVECTOMY SURGERY. Ankle synovitis is a condition characterized by inflammation of the soft tissue lining the ankle joint capsule (synovium). Most patients respond well to conservative treatments such as ice, rest, crutches, taping, or the use of special ankle braces. 
Ankle Synovitis. (Also known as Post-Traumatic Ankle Synovitis). Ankle synovitis is a condition characterized by inflammation of the soft tissue lining the ankle joint capsule, known as the synovium, with subsequent ankle swelling, pain and stiffness.
synovitis. [sin′əvī′tis]. an inflammatory condition of the synovial membrane of a joint as the result of an aseptic wound or a traumatic injury, such as a sprain or severe strain. The knee is most commonly affected. 
Pigmented villonodular synovitis of the foot and ankle. Brien EW, Sacoman DM, Mirra JM. BACKGROUND: Pigmented villonodular synovitis (PVNS) is a rare disease of uncertain etiology usually affecting the synovium of weightbearing joints. 
The Elevate™ Drop Foot Brace is unique in its versatility, comfort, and ease of use. It can be worn with the majority of shoe styles on the market – both male and female, including sandals. Pamper Your Feet Foot Spa products for better feeling feet, relaxation, and treatment. 
tenosynovitis. inflammation of a tendon and its sheath, the lubricated layer of tissue in which the tendon is housed and through which it moves. It is painful, and may temporarily disable the affected part. Arthritis frequently involves tendon sheaths. 
share. The synovial membrane is the part of the body that lines the inside of certain joints. It lines the joint capsule in the knee, ankle, wrist, elbow, hand, foot, and shoulder. When this membrane gets inflamed, it is called synovitis. 
MTP Synovitis (Capsulitis). The pain commonly associated with MTP Synovitis is typically described as a sharp or aching pain located directly in the ball of the foot, centered at the bottom of the second toe. 