When air enters the nostrils, it passes first through the vestibule, which is lined by skin containing coarse hairs that filter out large dust particles. Three shelves formed by projections of the superior, middle, and inferior nasal conchae extend out of each lateral wall of the nasal cavity. Split and merge into it. Answer by Ms.dancindiva. Confidence votes 22. The nasal conchae increase the surface area of the cavity to warm ,moisten, and filter the air and also to help direct air flow. to warm, moisten, and filter small particulates from the inhaled air.
The conchae, almost reaching the nasal septum, subdivide each side of the nasal cavity into a series of groovelike passageways-the superior, middle, and inferior meatuses (me-A-tus-ez). Mucous membran lines the cavity and its shelves. Split and merge into it. Answer by Ms.dancindiva. Confidence votes 22. The nasal conchae increase the surface area of the cavity to warm ,moisten, and filter the air and also to help direct air flow. to warm, moisten, and filter small particulates from the inhaled air.
Inferior Nasal Concha. The Inferior nasal concha is the most caudally based of the three nasal conchae. While the superior and middle nasal conchae form part of the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone, the inferior nasal concha is a bony structure by itself. It sits on the vertical bony plate known as the nasal septum, separating the nasal cavity into two bilateral and symmetrical anatomical caves. Laterally, the inferior nasal concha is concave and has no articulations, but it is not the same as the nasal bones or the vomer, because the bone is rounded, with an irregular surface of small impressions and tiny holes and it forms the inferior nasal meatus.
Illustration of Upper Respiratory System. In anatomy, a nasal concha (or turbinate) is a long, narrow and curled bone shelf (shaped like an elongated sea-shell) that protrudes into the breathing passage of the nose. Turbinate bone refers to any of the scrolled spongy bones of the nasal passages in vertebrates
Superior to inferior nasal concha are the middle nasal concha and superior nasal concha which arise from the cranial portion of the skull. Hence, these two are considered as a part of the cranial bones. It has two surfaces, two borders, and two extremities. They are also termed 'inferior nasal turbinates' because they function similar to that of a turbine: As the air passes through the turbinates, the air is churned against these mucosa-lined bones in order to receive warmth, moisture and cleansing.
Please listen to either Nick N or me. The answer is D! A-the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bond and the vomer bone divide the nasal cavity into a right and left side and it is called the septum (as in I have a a deviated septum). B-The conchae are bones stuck to the sides of the nasal cavity. While there is kind of a spiral to them (think surfing in a wave that hasn't collapsed yet or go here http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Gray85... C-The sense of smell comes from the upper nasal cavity and is not dependant on the conchae. RE: the function of the nasal conchae is? a. to divide the nasal cavity into a right and left side b. to provide an opening into the pharynx c. to provide a surface for a sense of smell d. to create turbulence in the air to trap small particulates in mucus e. to provide an opening to the outside of the body.
The inferior nasal concha (inferior turbinated bone or inferior turbinal/turbinate) is one of the turbinates in the nose. It extends horizontally along the lateral wall of the nasal cavity and consists of a lamina of spongy bone, curled upon itself like a scroll. They are also termed 'inferior nasal turbinates' because they function similar to that of a turbine: As the air passes through the turbinates, the air is churned against these mucosa-lined bones in order to receive warmth, moisture and cleansing.