This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. In this video I install the upstream aka primary O2 sensor from usautoparts.net (found here http://www.autopartswarehouse.com/sku... ) - which is a Denso sensor but does not have the wire harness included so you need to solder on the old harness. I also install the Denso 2349060 sensor-which is easier since it does have the harness but costs approximately $140. Tools required: Jack.
1 Install the new O-ring on the output shaft (countershaft) speed sensor, and then install the output shaft (countershaft) speed sensor in the transmission housing. 2  Do not allow dust or foreign particles to enter the transmission. 3  Check for rust, dirt, or oil, and then connect the connector securely. The number of pulses per minute increases or decreases with the speed of the vehicle. Removal & Installation. Specific to: Honda S2000 2007-2008. 1  Disconnect the output shaft (countershaft) speed sensor 3P connector. 2  Remove the output shaft (countershaft) speed sensor.
To install: 1  Install the new O-ring on the output shaft (countershaft) speed sensor, and then install the output shaft (countershaft) speed sensor in the transmission housing. 2  Do not allow dust or foreign particles to enter the transmission. 3  Check for rust, dirt, or oil, and then connect the connector securely. The number of pulses per minute increases or decreases with the speed of the vehicle. Removal & Installation. Specific to: Honda S2000 2007-2008. 1  Disconnect the output shaft (countershaft) speed sensor 3P connector. 2  Remove the output shaft (countershaft) speed sensor.
Specific to: Honda Accord 2007-2008. 1  Remove the air intake assembly. 2  Remove the EVAP canister purge valve. 3  Unbolt the under-hood fuse/relay box, and move the box aside. 4  Disconnect the Engine Coolant Temperature (ECT) sensor/ECT sensor 1 connector. 5  Remove the ECT sensor/ECT sensor 1. Specific to: Honda Civic 2007-2008. 1  Drain the engine coolant. 2  Remove the air intake assembly. 3  Disconnect the Camshaft Position (CMP) sensor A 3P connector, and the CMP sensor B 3P connector. 4  Remove the harness cover. 5  Disconnect the Engine Coolant Temperature (ECT) sensor 1 2P connector. 6  Remove the 
Disconnect the sensor that is setting the alarm off. Skip to 1:30 to see how and where to disconnect the hood sensor. Also skip to 2:25 for some basics about how the alarm works and a sign that you have a bad sensor. This is on a 2004 Honda Pilot. This should be the same for the 2003-2008 Pilots, probably the Odyssey, maybe the Accord and other models as well.
Fig. Connect the electrical connector (A) and use a new O-ring (C) to install ECT sensor 2 (B)-3.5L Engine. ECT Sensor 1. Specific to: Honda Fit 2007-2008. 1  Drain the engine coolant. 2  Remove the air cleaner. 3  Disconnect the Engine Coolant Temperature (ECT) sensor 1 connector. 4  Remove the ECT sensor 1. Specific to: Honda Civic 2007-2008. 1  Drain the engine coolant. 2  Remove the air intake assembly. 3  Disconnect the Camshaft Position (CMP) sensor A 3P connector, and the CMP sensor B 3P connector. 4  Remove the harness cover. 5  Disconnect the Engine Coolant Temperature (ECT) sensor 1 2P connector. 6
That's how you hook up shock sensors to the stock alarm. You wire them into the hood switch wire at the drivers side fuse panel. There's a trunk switch as well. From the 03 service manual, there should be a connector at the back of the hood latch near the AC condensor. 2 wire plug. Jump the connector going to the car's wire harness. Replacement of the hood latch should fix it though. Use a grease pencil or sharpie to outline the bolts & then use that when mounting the new one
JACUSTOMER-qayg1oc6- : there is a wire that connected to a device hooked on top of the accelerator. there is a wire that connected to a device hooked on top of the accelerator. JACUSTOMER-qayg1oc6- : the alarm does not go off when the engine is running. the alarm does not go off when the engine is running. It may reset the alarm. Have you tried disconnecting the battery and then re-connecting. It may reset the alarm. JACUSTOMER-qayg1oc6- : i'm taking the car to the shop. i'm taking the car to the shop. JACUSTOMER-qayg1oc6- : the connector does not come off easy.
Hi, I've read about similar problems with the factory car alarm going off and I've located the problem to be my hood latch. People keep posting that you can disconnect the latch and put a jumper in the connector to solve the problem. You wire them into the hood switch wire at the drivers side fuse panel. There's a trunk switch as well. From the 03 service manual, there should be a connector at the back of the hood latch near the AC condensor. 2 wire plug. Jump the connector going to the car's wire harness.
To install: 1  Install a new O-ring on a new CVT speed sensor, and then install the CVT speed sensor in the transmission housing. 2  Check the connector for rust, dirt, or oil, and then connect the connector securely. 3  Install the air cleaner assembly and the intake air duct. The number of pulses per minute increases or decreases with the speed of the vehicle. Removal & Installation. Specific to: Honda S2000 2007-2008. 1  Disconnect the output shaft (countershaft) speed sensor 3P connector. 2  Remove the output shaft (countershaft) speed sensor.