A limited power of attorney only permits an agent to act for the principal in areas it specifically defines. For example, a limited power of attorney may only grant an agent the right to sell the principal’s house or change the terms of a living trust the principal created. The agent cannot act for the principal in any other area other than what the power of attorney permits. A general power of attorney allows an agent to do anything that the principal would be able to do. With a general power of attorney, an agent usually could sell a principal’s house, change the terms of his living trust, and many other things without restriction.
A power of attorney is a document that authorizes another person to act legally on your behalf. Some powers of attorney only authorize action in specific situations, such as if you are incapacitated, while others give broad powers with few limitations. If you're concerned about your attorney-in-fact changing your trust without your permission, you can revoke the power of attorney with the help of a lawyer. You can also establish an expiration date for your power of attorney if you're concerned about giving your agent unlimited and permanent powers.
Changing a Trust. If your attorney-in-fact wants to change the trust, she'll have to provide a copy of a signed, notarized power of attorney, as well as one or more forms of photo identification. You don't have to be present or give your explicit permission on the day the trust is altered. If you're concerned about your attorney-in-fact changing your trust without your permission, you can revoke the power of attorney with the help of a lawyer. You can also establish an expiration date for your power of attorney if you're concerned about giving your agent unlimited and permanent powers.
Estate planning often involves creating a living trust and granting someone a power of attorney. A living trust is an arrangement a person enters into while they are alive to use her property to benefit others, called beneficiaries. A general power of attorney allows an agent to do anything that the principal would be able to do. With a general power of attorney, an agent usually could sell a principal’s house, change the terms of his living trust, and many other things without restriction.
By Vickie Schumacher. When your attorney prepares your living trust document, he or she will probably also prepare a durable power of attorney for asset management. There are several reasons why this document could be important. 1. Limited control over assets not in your trust. Your living trust document can only give your successor trustee (or co-trustee) authority to manage the assets you put into your trust. A durable power of attorney for asset management gives your successor limited authority to manage assets that are not in your trust. 3. Power to sign your tax returns. A durable power of attorney for asset management can give your successor trustee authority to sign your tax returns. Interestingly, this authority cannot be given through your living trust document. (Just one of those things.).
A power of attorney is a document that allows a person, or principal, to give another the ability to act on his behalf as his agent. Whether an agent with power of attorney can change a living trust depends on how the power of attorney is drafted. A general power of attorney allows an agent to do anything that the principal would be able to do. With a general power of attorney, an agent usually could sell a principal’s house, change the terms of his living trust, and many other things without restriction.
A power of attorney does not award the agent, or the person receiving it, the right to change the last will and testament of the person who gave it to him. However, it does give the agent broad powers that may potentially be abused. If you have issued a broad power of attorney to someone, he can theoretically do a great deal of damage to your estate. He can usually sign checks on your behalf and can potentially empty bank and savings accounts earmarked for burial costs, probate expenses or bequests.