Master Po Ping (known simply as Po) is the main protagonist of the Kung Fu Panda franchise. He is the adopted son of Mr. Ping as well as one of Master Shifu 's students at the Jade Palace. He is also the foretold Dragon Warrior of legend, and a master of the Panda Style of kung fu. In the events depicted in Kung Fu Panda: Legends of Awesomeness, Po's friendship with Tigress gradually grew. While Po's immaturity, clumsiness and habit for hasty decisions still frequently annoyed Tigress, she has come to realize that he is a resourceful warrior who truly deserves to be the Dragon Warrior.
Master Po Ping (more commonly known simply as Po and Master Po) is a title character and the protagonist of the Kung Fu Panda franchise. He is the 21-year-old (25 in Kung Fu Panda 2) giant panda who is improbably chosen as the Dragon Warrior, champion of the Valley of Peace in the first film. He's the adoptive son of Mr. Ping, and is one of Master Shifu's students. Po is also the prophesied Dragon Warrior, as well as the warrior of black and white. In Kung Fu Panda: Legends of Awesomeness, Po's revealed to have the ability to be able to learn kung fu at a glanc
Kung Po chicken, also known as Kung Pao or Gong Bao chicken, is a traditional Sichuan dish. Ad. Although Kung Po chicken is popular across the globe, there is one aspect of the dish that is missing from the Western plate. The Sichuan peppercorn is unique in flavor and taste but is usually not found on the Western menu.
Report Abuse. Kung Pao chicken is a classic dish in Szechuan cuisine, originating in the Sichuan Province of central-western China The dish is named after Ding Baozhen (1820–1886) a late Qing Dynasty official. Born in Guizhou, Ding served as head of Shandong province and later as governor of Sichuan province. His title was Gong Bau, or palatial guardian. The name Kung Pao chicken is derived from this title. The dish exists in both traditional Sichuan and Westernized versions; the latter is more popular in the United States and Canada.
Simplified Kung Po Chicken. Kung Po Chicken is a common dish found in most, if not all, chinese restaurants. This dish is basically diced chicken stir-fried with onions, dried chillies, cashew nuts and capsicum. Some even add water chestnuts to the dish. This is my recipe for Kung Po Chicken. Ingredients. 1  300 grammes chicken breast (cut into cubes / bite sizes). 2  2 medium sized onions (quartered). 3  10 to 15 pieces of dried chilli (washed and pre-soaked for 15 minutes prior to cooking). 4  20 to 30 pieces of cashew nuts. 5  1 1/2 cups of cooking oil (preferably palm oil).
Versions commonly found in the west, called Kung Pao chicken or Kung Po, consist of diced marinated chicken stir-fried with orange or orange juice, ginger, garlic, chicken broth, sugar, cooking oil, corn starch, and salt and pepper to taste. The dish often includes or is garnished with whole roasted peanuts. Then the chicken is stir fried and vegetables, along with peanuts, are added. Shaoxing wine is used to enhance flavor in the marinade. Kung Pao chicken starts off with fresh, moist, unroasted peanuts or cashew nuts.
Kung Po was one of the grades for officials in China. The inventor of this chicken dish was a Kung Po official in China. He named the dish according to his grade. 
Westernized version of Kung Pao chicken, served in London Another version of Kung Pao Chicken. Not to be confused with Kung Pow! Enter the Fist. Kung Pao chicken, (Chinese: 宫保鸡丁), also transcribed as Gong Bao or Kung Po, is a spicy stir-fry dish made with chicken, peanuts, vegetables, and chili peppers. The classic dish in Szechuan cuisine originated in the Sichuan Province of south-western China and includes Sichuan peppercorns. Then the chicken is stir fried and vegetables, along with peanuts, are added. Shaoxing wine is used to enhance flavor in the marinade. Kung Pao chicken starts off with fresh, moist, unroasted peanuts or cashew nuts.
Name: The name Kung Po is a westernised simplification of what was once written as Kung Pao in the Wade-Giles romanisation (representation of the spoken sound of Mandarin Chinese using the western alphabet) system for Chinese characters used in the late 19th. century. 