Accounting for the GST. It is generally accepted that the GST collected and the GST paid should not be treated as part of revenue and expenditure of the church but rather as an asset or liability when collected or paid. This would generally be achieved by using clearing accounts. The tract supplier has collected $100 GST on behalf of the government and Bluewater can claim an input tax credit for this amount. The Taxation Office therefore owes Bluewater $100 in relation to the acquisition of the tracts. This amount will be paid to Bluewater once the BAS for that period has been lodged.
1  The GST Clearing account is always assumed to be a Liability… GST Clearing [L] 8.2 THE GST CLEARING ACCOUNT Debit Credit Liabilities   Debit Credit Liabilities   Debit Credit Liabilities 2   . 4. © Michael Allison. 3  Author’s permission required for external use. 1 Author’s permission required for external use.  2  The GST transactions of the firm are posted to the GST ledger…  From now on, GST transactions are going to be posted to the GST Clearing ledger… 8.2 THE GST CLEARING ACCOUNT GST [L] GST Clearing [L]. 3  3
1 The GST is a Liability because you have to remit (pay) that GST to the Government. 2  Asset: 3  The GST paid to a supplier by your business for purchasing goods or services. 4  This GST will be refunded (credited) to you by the Government. 1 When you receive GST from customers. 2  The GST is a Liability because you have to remit (pay) that GST to the Government. 3  Asset: 4
1 It is a Liability to the Government. 2  You owe it to the Government. 3  Liability is increasing. 4  Credit the GST Clearing Account. 5  GST Paid to Suppliers by your business: 6  It is an asset to you. 7  Government has to pay this back to you. 8  Asset is increasing. 9  Debit the GST Account. 1 If the GST Account has a credit balance. 2  It is a liability. 3  Remit that amount to the Govt. 4  The GST account acts both as an Asset account or Liability account, depending on the balance.
Procedure 1  : GST received from customers: 2  It is a Liability to the Government. 3  You owe it to the Government. 4  Liability is increasing. 5  Credit the GST Clearing Account. 6  GST Paid to Suppliers by your business: 7  It is an asset to you. 8  Government has to pay this back to you. 1 If the GST Account has a credit balance. 2  It is a liability. 3  Remit that amount to the Govt. 4  The GST account acts both as an Asset account or Liability account, depending on the balance.
1 Balance in the GST Clearing account: 2  If the GST Account has a debit balance. 3  It is an asset. 4  Seek refund from the Government. 5  If the GST Account has a credit balance. 6  It is a liability. 7  Remit that amount to the Govt. 1 If the GST Account has a credit balance. 2  It is a liability. 3  Remit that amount to the Govt. 4  The GST account acts both as an Asset account or Liability account, depending on the balance.
The GST collected from the provision of taxable goods and services should be treated as a liability on the balance sheet of the church until such time as it is remitted to the Taxation Office. In the example below the church uses a cashbook maintained on a spreadsheet. The tract supplier has collected $100 GST on behalf of the government and Bluewater can claim an input tax credit for this amount. The Taxation Office therefore owes Bluewater $100 in relation to the acquisition of the tracts. This amount will be paid to Bluewater once the BAS for that period has been lodged.
GST can be an Asset or Liability. 1  Liability: 2  When you receive GST from customers. 3  The GST is a Liability because you have to remit (pay) that GST to the Government. 4  Asset: 5  The GST paid to a supplier by your business for purchasing goods or services. 6  This GST will be refunded (credited) to you by the Government. 1 When you receive GST from customers. 2  The GST is a Liability because you have to remit (pay) that GST to the Government. 3  Asset: 4
1 Liability: 2  When you receive GST from customers. 3  The GST is a Liability because you have to remit (pay) that GST to the Government. 4  Asset: 5  The GST paid to a supplier by your business for purchasing goods or services. 6  This GST will be refunded (credited) to you by the Government. 7  This GST belongs to you, hence an asset. 1 When you receive GST from customers. 2  The GST is a Liability because you have to remit (pay) that GST to the Government. 3  Asset: 4