Real pure LSD (Lysergic Acid Diethylamide) has practically no taste at all. That accounts for common doses of 15 - 300 micrograms. If you get a blotter paper and it tastes of anything else than blotter paper it is NOT LSD. There is one report (or annecdote) of a person accidently dosing himself with a mega-dose of several milligrams (ten thousands of micrograms in that case) and reporting a slightly bitter taste. It drives some people crazy, and some to do better things. To explain LSD, or any trip for that matter, is a drug that induces an Epiphany, or multiple for that matter. Colors may seem brighter, or of a more contrasting shade or tone to the other colors around it, while they too are doing the same thing.
See more controlled substance pictures. ­ The psychedelic drug LSD has been called acid, blotter, California sunshine, dots, Electric Kool-Aid and countless other colorful nicknames since it was first sold on the street in the early 1960s. It makes sense that LSD would be popular. It's easy to take -- it's colorless, odorless and tasteless -- and ingesting just a tiny amount (25 micrograms, or 0.000025 grams, less than the weight of two salt grains) is enough to feel the effects. 
What it looks like: Ketamine comes in the form of a white powder, tablet, or liquid. It is a legal drug in the U.S. only when used as an anesthetic (mostly for animals). Otherwise, it is illegal. What it can do to you: It can make sights and sounds seem different from usual. What it looks like: This drug comes in the form of a pill or white powder. It is usually swallowed, but can be snorted. What it can do to you: Ecstasy is often used at parties so people can dance and stay active for long periods of time. It causes your emotions (both positive and negative ones) to be really strong.
If heroin is like other opiates, it's probably bitter. If you had a bag of unidentified powder, and knew for certain that it was either heroin or (say) flour, then you could probably identify it by taste. The general problem of identifying an unknown powder is very stupid to solve by taste. Heroin does have a taste but I can't explain it completely different from coke, a little bitter with a hint of vinegar and that's also what it smells like. It also has a different look and consistency. Quote: Originally Posted by aldiboronti. I've seen it a hundred times on cop shows and in the movies.
What it looks like: It comes in a white powder with no smell and a bitter taste or in chunky crystals. It can be snorted, injected, smoked, or dissolved in a drink. What it can do to you: Methamphetamine causes a rush and an increase in energy that can last 20 minutes to 12 hours. What it looks like: This drug comes in the form of a pill or white powder. It is usually swallowed, but can be snorted. What it can do to you: Ecstasy is often used at parties so people can dance and stay active for long periods of time. It causes your emotions (both positive and negative ones) to be really strong.
Pussy tastes like hot-sweet-sticky-kinda-salty candy. A woman’s natural juices mixed with the smell and taste of her skin is a beautiful thing. Chicks with bad diets who do too many drugs don’t taste good.”. Drugs, tobacco and alcohol all came up as winners for making bitter, “not fresh” tasting hole. But it’s the contraception methods that “Jay” gives a big thumbs-down to. “What I can’t stand is spermicides — they taste poisonous and wipe out all other flavors. If you’re eating out a woman who’s lathered with spermicide, the stuff numbs your lips, mouth and tongue. It’s like slurping paint thinner.
It depends on how corrosive the acid is. A mildly-corrosive or noncorrosive acid like ascorbic, citric or diluted acetic tastes sour. A very corrosive acid like hydrochloric starts out very sour and ends up tasting like meat because your tongue dissolves when you try eating the acid.
It tastes sour. Other tastes are sweet, bitter and salty. Bitter is alkaline, the opposite of acid in Ph. And salty is the combination of an acid and a base (alkaline), … which is a salt. A mildly-corrosive or noncorrosive acid like ascorbic, citric or diluted acetic tastes sour. A very corrosive acid like hydrochloric starts out very sour and ends up tasting like meat because your tongue dissolves when you try eating the acid.
MDMA is very bitter. And GHB is very salty, though that's probably because it is a salt (in the form in which it is usually consumed-sodium or less commonly potassium). My mum once bit through a fluoxetine (Prozac) capsule and found it repulsively bitter. 
In pure form it is a colorless, odorless, tasteless solid. LSD is typically either swallowed (oral) or held under the tongue (sublingual), usually on a substrate such as absorbent blotter paper, a sugar cube, or gelatin. In its liquid form, it can also be administered by intramuscular or intravenous injection. LSD is very potent, with 20–30 µg (micrograms) being the threshold dose. Hofmann discovered the psychedelic properties of LSD in 1943. It was introduced commercially in 1947 by Sandoz Laboratories under the trade-name Delysid as a drug with various psychiatric uses.