A venule is a very small blood vessel in the microcirculation that allows blood to return from the capillary beds to drain into the larger blood vessels, the veins. Venules range from 7 to 50μm in diameter. Veins contain approximately 70% of total blood volume, 25% of which is contained in the venules. 
Venules transport blood from the body back to the heart. Arteries and veins are the largest blood vessels and are found nearest the heart. All blood vessels transport blood -- either from the heart to the body or from the body back to the heart. Venules are a type of blood vessel found within the circulatory system. All blood vessels transport blood either from the heart to the body or from the body back to the heart. Arteries and arterioles transport blood from the heart out to the body, while veins and venules transport the blood back to
Arteries carry blood away from the heart and are usually oxygen rich. Venules fuse to form veins that bring the blood back to the heart where it can get oxygenated and deliver it to body tissues where the whole cycle starts again. blood vessels which carry blood back to the heart from body regions. To understand vein disease, which is the primary cause of varicose veins, it's first important to understa … nd the venous system of the human body.
Report Abuse. The venule is smaller. While blood is on its way back to the heart, the blood travels through vessels that merge together and get larger and larger. When capillaries merge to form larger vessels, these are venules. When venules merge to form larger vessels, these are veins. ecolink · 8 years ago. 
Venules. Venules are minute vessels that drain blood from capillaries and into veins. Many venules unite to form a vein. 1  Drains blood from capillaries into veins, for return to the heart. The following diagram summarises the sequence of blood flow through the heart, arteries, arterioles, capillaries, venules, veins, then back to the heart: The following diagram summarises the structural differences between different types of blood vessels.
Venules and Veins. To return blood to the heart, there is a series of venules, veins, and muscular veins. Venules have much larger lumina and thinner walls than corresponding arterioles. In a section that has both arteries and veins, the artery and veins are very easy to tell apart. The thickness of the walls of the veins is much less, compared to the lumen, and the lumen is often collapsed as shown here.
A venule is a small vein. A vein always carries blood to the heart and usually carries oxygen poor blood. Since the circulatory system is circular, all of the vessels connect … at some point. That happens in capillary beds, which are where venules (small veins) and arterioles (small arteries) meet. A venule is a small blood vessel in the microcirculation that allows deoxygenated blood to return from the capillary beds to the larger blood vessels called veins. Venules are blood vessels that drain blood directly from the capillary beds. Many venules unite to form a vein
Veins. In a section that has both arteries and veins, the artery and veins are very easy to tell apart. The thickness of the walls of the veins is much less, compared to the lumen, and the lumen is often collapsed as shown here.
stellate venule-a star-shaped group of venules in the renal cortex. vein, vena, venous blood vessel-a blood vessel that carries blood from the capillaries toward the heart; all veins except the pulmonary vein carry unaerated blood. Translations. venule. n. 1. (Anatomy) anatomy any of the small branches of a vein that receives oxygen-depleted blood from the capillaries and returns it to the heart via the venous system. 2. (Zoology) any of the branches of a vein in an insect's wing.