But when it comes to antinutrients’ role in human health, recent research suggests these substances may be getting a bad rap. Where the Antinutrients Are. Antinutrients exist in a wide range of plant foods, but they are found in particularly significant amounts in cereals and legumes, such as wheat and beans. Among the dozens of different antinutrients are enzyme inhibitors, flatus factors, saponins, and phytates. 
Paleo incorrect: legumes are not antinutrients. The Paleo Diet claims that beans and lentils should be excluded from the diet because they contain antinutrients. Phytic acid (reduces some micronutrient absorption) is just as high in nuts as they are in legumes, and yet nuts are not excluded from Paleo. Tannins are just as high in wine, and oxalates are just as high in spinach, but these are not excluded from Paleo. Talk about your own diet and its merits. Yes...The problem with beans are the antinutrients you talk about. You can't really eat most beans raw. There are some that if you eat them raw, they can cause mild stomach discomfort and some, like Kidney beans, can cause vomiting, diarrhea, and abdominal pain.
It’s not just legumes-nuts, seeds and beans, that contain high amounts of lectins and phytates, but also grains. Grains with these anti-nutrients wreck a lot of havic on the digestive tract, immune system, reproductive organs, the heart, kidneys, brain and joints. 1 Beans. 2  The most common varieties of legumes are beans. 3  These include adzuki beans, black beans, soybeans, anasazi beans, fava beans, garbanzo beans (chickpeas or hummus), kidney beans and lima beans. 4  Nuts.
“Dry beans and peas are the mature forms of legumes such as kidney beans, pinto beans, black-eyed peas, and lentils. These foods are excellent sources of plant protein, and also provide other nutrients such as iron and zinc. They are similar to meats, poultry, and fish in their contribution of these nutrients. Beans are not good sources of either zinc or iron, and they have low protein digestibility because these legumes are chock full of antinutrients that impair our body’s ability to absorb and assimilate potential nutrients found in these foods.
Paleo Diet incorrect: legumes are not antinutrients. published by admin on February 7, 2011 - 4:20pm. The Paleo Diet claims that beans and lentils should be excluded from the diet because they contain antinutrients. Phytic acid (reduces some micronutrient absorption) is just as high in nuts as they are in legumes, and yet nuts are not excluded from Paleo. Tannins are just as high in wine, and oxalates are just as high in spinach, but these
Saponins are antinutrients found in almost all legumes and have soap-like properties that punch holes in the membranes lining the exterior of all cells. As was the case with lectins, this effect is dose dependent – meaning that the more saponins you ingest, the greater will be the damage to your body’s cells. Beans are not good sources of either zinc or iron, and they have low protein digestibility because these legumes are chock full of antinutrients that impair our body’s ability to absorb and assimilate potential nutrients found in these foods.
Legumes are a rich source of antinutrients in the human dit. This article will focus on phytic acid, saponins, polyphenols, lathyrogens, α-galactosides, protease inhibitors, α-amylase inhibitors, and lectins which are found throughout grain and forage legumes. The structure of some low molecular weight antinutrients Saponins occur in a broad range of plants consumed in the human diet, including legumes (soya, peas, and beans), root crops (potato, yams, asparagus, and alliums) as well as in oats, sugar beet, tea, and many medicinal herbs (such as ginseng).
As with whole grains, the primary purpose of most antinutrients in legumes is to discourage predation and prevent destruction of the plant’s reproductive materials (e.g. its seeds) by microorganisms, insects, birds, rodents and large mammals (10, 25). Beans are not good sources of either zinc or iron, and they have low protein digestibility because these legumes are chock full of antinutrients that impair our body’s ability to absorb and assimilate potential nutrients found in these foods.
The list of antinutrients found in legumes, beans and soy is seemingly endless and includes: lectins, saponins, phytate, polyphenols (tannins, isoflavones), protease inhibitors, raffinose oligosaccharides, cyanogenetic glycosides, and favism glycosides. Beans are not good sources of either zinc or iron, and they have low protein digestibility because these legumes are chock full of antinutrients that impair our body’s ability to absorb and assimilate potential nutrients found in these foods.