1 An international strategy is a strategy through which the firm sells itsgoods or services outside its domestic market (Hill 378). 1 And what are the costs?Benefits of a global strategy The business case for achieving a global strategy is based on one or more of thefactors set out below-see academic research by Theodore Leavitt, Sumanthra Ghoshal, Kenichi Ohmae, GeorgeYip and others.
The International Strategy for Disaster Reduction builds upon the experience of the International Decade for Natural Disaster Reduction (1990-1999), which was launched by the General Assembly in 1989. 
International business strategy refers to plans that guide commercial transactions taking place between entities in different countries. Typically, international business strategy refers to the plans and actions of private companies rather than governments; as such, the goal is increased profit. 
1 1. 2  What is international strategy?  3 An international strategy is a strategy through which the firm sells itsgoods or services outside its domestic market (Hill 378). 1 And what are the costs?Benefits of a global strategy The business case for achieving a global strategy is based on one or more of thefactors set out below-see academic research by Theodore Leavitt, Sumanthra Ghoshal, Kenichi Ohmae, GeorgeYip and others.
Global strategy as defined in business terms is an organization's strategic guide to globalization. A global strategy may be appropriate in industries where firms are faced with strong pressures for cost reduction but with weak pressures for local responsiveness. Therefore, it allows these firms to sell a standardized product worldwide.
1 International strategy: the organisation’s objectives relate primarily to the home market. 2  However, we have some objectives with regard to overseas activity and therefore need an international strategy. 3  Importantly, the competitive advantage – important in strategy development – is developed mainly for the home market. Because the business rewards are supposed to be much greater for a global strategy. And so are the risks! Hence, many companies do not have a ‘global strategy’ in the way that it is defined in international business literature.
An international strategy is a strategy through which the firm sells its goods or services outside its domestic market (Hill 378). 
The business case for achieving a global strategy is based on one or more of the factors set out below – see academic research by Theodore Leavitt, Sumanthra Ghoshal, Kenichi Ohmae, George Yip and others. Because the business rewards are supposed to be much greater for a global strategy. And so are the risks! Hence, many companies do not have a ‘global strategy’ in the way that it is defined in international business literature.
The international strategy gives subsidiaries the independence to plan and execute competitive moves independently—that is, competitive moves are based solely on the analysis of local rivals. In contrast, the global strategy plans and executes competitive battles on a global scale. Exporting and importing The first and the most common strategy to be an international company is: import and export of goods, materials and services. Exporting is the process of selling goods or services produced in one country to other countries. There are two types of exporting: direct and indirect.
1 What is international strategy?  2 An international strategy is a strategy through which the firm sells itsgoods or services outside its domestic market (Hill 378). 1 And what are the costs?Benefits of a global strategy The business case for achieving a global strategy is based on one or more of thefactors set out below-see academic research by Theodore Leavitt, Sumanthra Ghoshal, Kenichi Ohmae, GeorgeYip and others.