A thick, golden-brown viscous solution of cellulose xanthate, used in the manufacture of rayon and cellophane. 2. Viscose rayon. adj. 1. Viscous. 2. Of, relating to, or made from viscose.
The type of rayon produced is named by the process which was used to produce it. Viscose is one of the earliest and most commonly used production method today. It makes up the majority of rayon used in clothing textiles. One common tradename for rayon is Modal®.
A lightweight, plain weave, fabric, made from cotton, rayon, or acetate, and characterized by a puckered striped effect, usually in the warp direction. The crinkled effect is created through the application of a caustic soda solution, which shrinks the fabric in the areas of the fabric where it is applied.
Rayon was the first generation of these cellulosic fibers. Rayon is known by the names viscose rayon and art silk (abbreviated from “artificial silk”) in the textile industry. It usually has a high luster quality giving it a bright shine. Modal is the second generation and is known for its softness.
Today rayon is one of the most widely used fabrics in our society. It is made in countries around the world. It can be blended with natural or man-made fabrics, treated with enhancements, and even engineered to perform a variety of functions.
Rayon is a natural-based material that is made from the cellulose of wood pulp or cotton. This natural base gives it many of the characteristics—low cost, diversity, and comfort—that have led to its popularity and success.
Most rayon is made by the viscose process. Viscose Process Most commercial rayon manufacturing today utilizes the viscose process. This process dates to the early 1900s, with most of the growth in production occurring between 1925 and 1955.
Trade names are used within the rayon industry to label the type of rayon in the product. Viscose Rayon was first produced in Coventry England in 1905 by Courtaulds. Bemberg, is a trade name for cupramonium rayon developed by J. P. Bemberg.
Regular or viscose rayon is the most prevalent, versatile and successful type of rayon. It can be blended with man-made or natural fibers and made into fabrics of varying weight and texture. It is also highly absorbent, economical and comfortable to wear.