Although the mines at Borate were a very important part of the Borax industry of California, little information exists about them, and very few people know of their existence. The town site no longer appears on maps, and most people confuse it with the present operations of U.S. Borax Company at Boron. Borax mining in the United States started with the production of borax from Borax lake in Tehama County in 1864. The discovery of cotton ball ulexite in the playa of Teels Marsh by Frances Marion (Borax) Smith in 1872 ushered in the first major production of Borax in the United States.
For sodium perborate, see Sodium perborate. Borax, also known as sodium borate, sodium tetraborate, or disodium tetraborate, is an important boron compound, a mineral, and a salt of boric acid. Powdered borax is white, consisting of soft colorless crystals that dissolve easily in water. Borax has a wide variety of uses. The term borax is used for a number of closely related minerals or chemical compounds that differ in their crystal water content, but usually refers to the decahydrate. Commercially sold borax is partially dehydrated.
Now, much of the mined Borax is from the Southwest U.S. The localities there are mostly in California, in Boron, Kern Co. (usually as an artificial by-product of mining operations); Searles Lake, San Bernardino Co.; Borax Lake, Lake Co.; and Death Valley, Inyo Co. The Mineral borax. Borax occurs in arid regions, forming from evaporation of saline lake s. Borax is also synthetically formed as a by-product of mining operations of borate deposits, and most of the specimens from the famous mine at Boron, California, are formed this way. The first Borax specimens came several dry lake deposit s in Tibet. They were shipped in large quantities by ancient caravans for profit
Much of the mine workings were underground until 1957, when U.S. Borax changed to open-pit mining. The mining complex—tailings piles, open pit, processing facilities, settling ponds—spreads across approximately 54 square kilometers (21 square miles). Borate minerals such as borax, kernite, and ulexite are found in the deposits at the Rio Tinto mine. The geologic setting is a structural, nonmarine basin—a permanent shallow lake—fed by thermal springs rich in sodium and boron that existed approximately 16 million years ago.
Global Borate Supplier of Choice. Borax operates California's largest open pit mine in Boron, California-one of the richest borate deposits on the planet. While boron is present everywhere in the environment, substantial deposits of borates are relatively rare. Borax traces its roots to California's Death Valley, where borate deposits were discovered in 1872. The twenty mule teams Borax used to haul ore out of the remote desert live on as a symbol of the company's commitment to innovation. The current open pit in the Mojave Desert began as an underground mine in 1927, and Boron Operations was converted to a surface mine in the late 1950s
Mining at the site by shafts began in the 1920s. Pacific Coast Borax later became U.S. Borax, which subsequently opened the current open pit mine in 1957. U.S. Borax was later acquired by Rio Tinto Group, which continues to operate the mine today. The borax deposit here was discovered in 1913, by John K. Sukow, who when drilling for water found a deposit of what he believed to be gypsum, but further testing revealed that it was the colemanite form of borax. Francis Marion Borax Smith quickly bought the claim for his Pacific Coast Borax Company.