Beginner Agility Class. Our Beginner Agility Class is for dogs and handlers who are new to the world of agility. It's a six week course. Each class session is approximately 1½ hours long. The cost of the course is $60. To participate in our Beginner Agility Class a dog/handler team must meet the General Class Requirements and must have successfully completed our Pre-Agility Foundation Training Class. In Beginners you and your dog will learn how to complete 14 different agility obstacles, including: A-Frame. On the A-Frame, the dog is required to walk up, over and down in the direction designated by the judge, touching the safety contact zones both on the ascent and the descent. Some venues (AKC for example) do not require the dog to touch the up contact, but requires the dog to touch the down contact zone.
You can find a complete list of all obedience classes in the AKC Obedience Regulations. NOVICE – For the dog just getting started in obedience. Exercises include: • Heel on Leash and Figure Eight – show whether the dog has learned to watch its handler and adjust its pace to stay with the handler. 1 Welcome to the world of AKC ® Companion Events! These events were developed so ANY dog and anyone of any age could show off their athletic abilities and demonstrate the bond that can develop between a well trained dog and its owner.
According to the AKC Regulations for Agility Trials, the Novice A class is “for dogs that have never acquired any AKC agility title.” But it’s more than just the dog that must be a true novice. Q. In AKC, when do you enter A classes and when do you enter B? The A and B designations have different meanings depending on whether they are applied to the Novice level or to Excellent.
But a couple of my group have started doing AKC so it's a fun day for us. The interesting thing about AKC is that you are allowed 15 faults and you can still get a Q. That is not the case in USDAA or NADAC. I find the AKC novice courses easier to do. I'm a USDAA lover, although I've done a bit of CPE and AKC as well. As mentioned, you can compete one height below your dog's measurement in USDAA (which I do-my dogs are 17.75 and 17, so I run them 16 performance). That allows my dogs to jump the same height in all three venues.
Tips for the First-time Exhibitor. 1  Register your dog with the AKC. 2  Be sure your dog is current on all inoculations and health check-ups. 3  Visit the AKC website to find a local obedience club. 4  Attend obedience classes with your dog. 5  Become familiar with the AKC Obedience Regulations. To be eligible to compete in obedience trials, a dog must be: 1  Registered with the AKC. 2  Listed with the AKC Purebred Alternative Listing/Indefinite Listing Privilege (PAL/ILP) program. 3  Listed with the AKC Canine Partners program. 4  Be a Foundation Stock Service (FSS) recorded breed. 5  6 months of age or older
Rules and Regulations. Below are links to the AKC Rules and Regulations that we have available. 1  4-6 Month Beginner Puppy Competition Regulations. 2  Agility Judges Guidelines. 3  Basset Hound Field Trial Rules. 4  Beagle Field Trail Rules for Brace, Small Pack and Small Pack Option. 5  Beagle Field Trial Rules for Large Pack Field Trials. 
Chapter 1Regulations for Agility Trials®Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of AKC agility trials is to afford owners the opportunity to demonstrate a dog’s physical ability/soundness and willingness to work with its handler under a variety of conditions. 
Local clubs also have “fun matches,” where you and your dog can test your skills in the ring. Training and handling your dog in any Companion Event is an exceptional and enjoyable experience. From your first attempted trial to earning your first AKC title, you and your dog will develop a bond. Training classes offer the best hands-on way to practice for the ring, and watching exhibitors at actual trials will gain you expertise. These events bring many hours of fun for you and your dog. 1 Welcome to the world of AKC ® Companion Events! These events were developed so ANY dog and anyone of any age could show off their athletic abilities and demonstrate the bond that can develop between a well trained dog and its owner.
Dogs of any breed recognized by the AKC that does not have registration papers or known parents may qualify for a Purebred Alternative Listing/Indefinite Listing Privilege (PAL/ILP). PAL/ILP dogs may participate in certain AKC Events, such as Obedience, Agility, Tracking and many performance events. To be eligible to compete in obedience trials, a dog must be: 1  Registered with the AKC. 2  Listed with the AKC Purebred Alternative Listing/Indefinite Listing Privilege (PAL/ILP) program. 3  Listed with the AKC Canine Partners program. 4  Be a Foundation Stock Service (FSS) recorded breed. 5  6 months of age or older