Cumulonimbus clouds belong to the Clouds with Vertical Growth group. They are generally known as thunderstorm clouds. A cumulonimbus cloud can grow up to 10km high. At this height, high winds will flatten the top of the cloud out into an anvil-like shape. Cumulonimbus clouds are associated with heavy rain, snow, hail, lightning, and tornadoes.
Cumulonimbus, from the Latin cumulus (heap) and nimbus (rainstorm, storm cloud), is a dense towering vertical cloud associated with thunderstorms and atmospheric instability, forming from water vapor carried by powerful upward air currents. Cumulonimbus can form alone, in clusters, or along cold front squall lines. These clouds are capable of producing lightning and other dangerous severe weather, such as tornadoes. Cumulonimbus progress from overdeveloped cumulus congestus clouds and may further develop as part of a supercell.
Cumulonimbus calvus clouds are sort of like the juveniles of the storm cloud world. Cumulonimbus clouds are always large and looming. When a cumulonimbus cloud matures, its top changes shape. The top of this particular type of cloud is a fairly new forming storm cloud, and the top reflects it. 
Cumulonimbus Clouds (thunderclouds) Cumulonimbus is a type of cloud that is tall, dense, and usually dark. These clouds form thunderstorms, and can create severe weather con … ditions, such as heavy rain, damaging winds, hail, lightning, and tornadoes. Appearance Cumulonimbus clouds usually form from cumulus clouds at a much lower height, thus making them, like cumulus clouds, grow vertically instead of horizontally. This gives the cumulonimbus its mushroom shape.
1 The cumulonimbus incus cloud is known as the anvil cloud because of its shape. 2  The shape of these incredibly large, towering clouds is what makes them so significant. 3  They are tall clouds with a top that literally looks like an anvil. Let’s talk about some of the visual characteristics of these clouds, namely: 1 
Cumulus clouds are often precursors of other types of cloud, such as cumulonimbus, when influenced by weather factors such as instability, moisture, and temperature gradient. Normally, cumulus clouds produce little or no precipitation, but they can grow into the precipitation-bearing congestus or cumulonimbus clouds. Cumulus clouds are often described as puffy, cotton-like or fluffy in appearance, and have flat bases. Cumulus clouds, being low-level clouds, are generally less than 1,000 m (3,300 ft) in altitude unless they are the more vertical cumulus congestus form.
Cumulonimbus clouds are thunderstorm clouds. High winds can flatten the top of the cloud into an anvil-like shape. Cumulonimbus clouds are associated with heavy rain, snow, hail, lightning and even tornadoes. The anvil usually points in the direction the storm is moving. The base of each cloud is flat and the top of each cloud has rounded towers. When the top of the cumulus clouds resemble the head of a cauliflower, it is called cumulus congestus or towering cumulus. These clouds grow upward and they can develop into giant cumulonimbus clouds, which