Hawaii is the newest of the 50 states of the United States it is the only U.S. state that is entirely an island archipelago. Hawaii is located in the central Pacific Ocean to the southwest of the continental U.S., southeast of Japan and northeast of Australia. Oahu is also the home of the largest U.S. Navy fleet in the Pacific at Pearl Harbor. Oahu's topography consists of two main mountain ranges that are separated by a valley as wella as coastal plains that ring the island. Oahu's beaches and shops make it one of Hawaii's most visited islands.
Hawaii (the Big Island). The island of Hawaii, also known as the Big Island, is the largest of Hawaii's main islands with a total area of 4,028 square miles (10,432 sq km). It is also the largest island in the United States and it, like the other islands of Hawaii was formed by a hotspot in the Earth's crust. Oahu is also the home of the largest U.S. Navy fleet in the Pacific at Pearl Harbor. Oahu's topography consists of two main mountain ranges that are separated by a valley as wella as coastal plains that ring the island. Oahu's beaches and shops make it one of Hawaii's most visited islands.
Niʻihau or Niihau (/ˈniːhaʊ/ ; Hawaiian : [ˈniʔiˈhau]) is the westernmost and seventh largest of the inhabited Hawaiian Islands in the U.S. state of Hawaiʻi, lying 17.5 miles (15.2 nmi; 28.2 km) southwest of Kauaʻi across the Kaulakahi Channel and having an area of 69.5 square miles (180 km 2). Ni ʻ ihau is located about 18 miles (29 km) west of Kauaʻi, and the tiny, uninhabited island of Lehua lies 0.7 miles (0.61 nmi; 1.1 km) north of Ni ʻ ihau. Ni ʻ ihau's dimensions are 6.2 miles by 18.6 miles (10 km x 30 km).
Niihau’s reputation is well deserved. For nearly a century and a half, the privately owned, 70-square-mile island, located 17 miles southwest of Kauai, has been off limits to outsiders, earning it the “Forbidden” moniker. 
Kauai is the Garden Island.. But one island is hardly known at all, even by most state residents. Niihau, about 18 miles northwest of Kauai, is the Forbidden Island.. It has been privately owned by the same family since 1864, when Elizabeth Sinclair purchased it from King Kamehameha V for $10,000. It is considered the most endangered of all the world's seals, with only about 150 left in the main Hawaiian Islands; by last count, 87 of those on Niihau alone. The island is more than just critical habitat for the population.
4. Kauai. Kauai is the fourth largest of Hawaii's main islands and it has a total area of 562 square miles (1,430 sq km). It is the oldest of the main islands as it is located the farthest away from the hotspot that formed the islands. Oahu is also the home of the largest U.S. Navy fleet in the Pacific at Pearl Harbor. Oahu's topography consists of two main mountain ranges that are separated by a valley as wella as coastal plains that ring the island. Oahu's beaches and shops make it one of Hawaii's most visited islands.
Now YOU can visit Niihau, the Hawaiian Forbidden Island - where time has stood still. One of only three places in the world where technology has not yet moved in, Niihau Island (if you pronounce it Nee-ee-how you'll be pretty close) is a 72 square mile privately owned island just southwest of the island of Kauai.
The island of Niihau encompasses 70 square miles and it is located 18 miles northwest of Kauai. The only job available on Niihau is at the Robinson family ranch, where the majority of the population works raising cattle. They get food from the ranch as well. Today, Niihau is the most Hawaiian island and the only place where Hawaiian is the first and main language. Niihau is also knows as The Forbidden Island because non-native Hawaiians are not allowed to go there.
Niihau Island & Lehua Crater. Niihau Island, known as the “Forbidden Island,” is one of the most mysterious of all the Hawaiian Islands, with a unique history and long-standing independence. Niihau is about 200,000 years younger than Kauai so many geologists disagree about whether Niihau and Lehua were formed separately from Kauai. The islet Lehua is attached to Niihau, located about three-quarters of a mile north of Niihau. It is a bare, crescent-shaped rim of a volcanic island.