A basic metabolic panel is a blood test that measures the levels of sugar and electrolytes in the body. It also measures how well the kidneys are functioning. This medical test is one of the most common blood tests ordered by doctors to help diagnose and treat many health conditions. A glucose level is part of this blood work. Glucose is a specific type of sugar the body uses for energy. If the level is too high it could indicate diabetes, or it could be a reaction to medication. Another important component of the basic metabolic panel is the sodium level.
Topic Overview. A comprehensive metabolic panel is a blood test that measures your sugar (glucose) level, electrolyte and fluid balance, kidney function, and liver function. Glucose is a type of sugar your body uses for energy. Electrolytes keep your body's fluids in balance. 
A basic metabolic panel test measures the levels of eight important things in your blood: Calcium. Calcium plays a role in keeping your cells working the way they should. It also helps blood clot normally. Carbon dioxide. This can be a measure of how well your kidneys and lungs are working. Chloride. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A basic metabolic panel (BMP) (also urea and electrolytes or U&E, or urea, electrolytes, creatinine, or UEC or EUC in some countries) is a set of seven or eight blood chemical tests and is one of the most common lab tests ordered by health care providers. A basic metabolic panel including calcium is sometimes colloquially referred to as a CHEM-8. Calcium, as a light alkali metal, is also an electrolyte, but abnormalities are more commonly associated with malnutrition, osteoporosis, or malignancy, especially of the thyroid.
Topic Overview. A basic metabolic panel is a blood test that measures your sugar (glucose) level, electrolyte and fluid balance, and kidney function. Glucose is a type of sugar your body uses for energy. Electrolytes keep your body's fluids in balance. They also help keep your body working normally, including your heart rhythm, muscle contraction, and brain function. If you take any medicines, such as diuretics for high blood pressure, your doctor may order a basic metabolic panel to see if the medicines are affecting your kidneys or your electrolytes. Your doctor also may order this panel as part of a regular health examination or to help diagnose a medical condition.
Get help from a doctor now ›. A panel of lab tests: The basic metabolic panel (bmp) is a panel of blood tests that serves as an initial broad medical screening tool. The bmp provides a rough check of kidney function and electrolyte and fluid balance. The cmp is an expanded version of the basic metabolic panel (bmp), which does not include liver tests. A cmp (or bmp) is usually ordered as part of a routine physical exam.
The basic metabolic panel is a simpler version of the Comprehensive metabolic panel (CMP), which includes tests for liver function. A basic metabolic panel including calcium is sometimes colloquially referred to as a CHEM-8. Calcium, as a light alkali metal, is also an electrolyte, but abnormalities are more commonly associated with malnutrition, osteoporosis, or malignancy, especially of the thyroid.