Last year this name was ranked as one of the top 1000 most popular names within its gender. Keep in mind how popular a name is. Your child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities.
Amalea is an uncommonly occurring given name for females. Amalea is also an uncommon surname for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Below is a charted analysis of the usage of the girl name Amalea and corresponding names.malea /ama-lea/ [3 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Latin derivation, and the name Amalea means rival, eager work; rival; laborious; eager. Amalea is a variant transcription of Amelia (Latin, Old German). Amalea is also a form of Emily (Latin). Kreatif forms: Aiamalea, Amaleaai, Amali.
Amadea is an uncommonly occurring first name for women. Amadea is an uncommon surname too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Amadea for girls. Amadea has yet to be recorded in the Top 1000 thus far.
Latin Meaning: The name Amadea is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Amadea is: Loved by God. SoulUrge Number: 8. Expression Number: 7. People with this name have a deep inner desire to lead, organize, supervise, and to achieve status, power and wealth. People with this name are excellent at analyzing, understanding, and learning
Amanda is a Latin female gerundive name meaning having to be loved, deserving to be loved or simply worthy of love. The name Amanda first appeared in 1212 on a birth record from Warwickshire, England, and five centuries later the name was popularized by poets and playwrights.rom 1976 to 1995, Amanda ranked in the ten most popular female baby names in the United States. The name was most popular from 1978 to 1992, when it ranked in the top 4. At its prime, in 1980, it was the second most popular. In 2009, Amanda ranked number 166.
namecandy-Celebrity baby names, ask the Name Lady, & more.
Amalea is alike in pronunciation to Amahla, Amala and Amilya. Other suggested similar baby names are Amadea, Amal, Analee, Analia ▼ and Azalea ▲ . These names tend to be more frequently used than Amalea.malea /ama-lea/ [3 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Latin derivation, and the name Amalea means rival, eager work; rival; laborious; eager. Amalea is a variant transcription of Amelia (Latin, Old German). Amalea is also a form of Emily (Latin). Kreatif forms: Aiamalea, Amaleaai, Amali.
Amadea /ama-dea/ [4 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Amadea is God's love. Feminine of Amadeus.madea is an uncommon surname too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Amadea for girls. Amadea has yet to be recorded in the Top 1000 thus far.
Amadea is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 6 letters and 4 syllables and is pronounced A-ma-de-a. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 10105 in baby name popularity for girls with 10 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Amadea Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Amadea has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Amadea to other names.our child may feel that they fit in more with a more popular name. On the other hand, they may feel more special if their name is less popular and more uniquely their own. As you see it can go both ways, so just keep this point in mind as you examine the different possibilities.
Also the female form of the names Amadeo, Amadeus. Amadea is ususally a very busty bodacious woman. Very attractive, and with a fantastic fashion sense. She is easy to entertain and is usually very kind, sweet and loving.madeas are highly intelligent and smart, make bad but funny jokes, use good sarcasm, and typically enjoy books, music and movies. She is very sexual and loves to have sex and is proud of her sexuality and is rarely ashamed.