Taxonomy. The taxonomic hierarchy of M. luteus is as follows: Super Kingdom-Bacteria; Phylum-Actinobacteria; Class-Actinobacteridae; Order-Actinomycetales; Family-Micrococcaceae; Genus-Micrococcus; Species-M. luteus. Ecology. Human skin and the nasal membranes are the primary habitat of M. luteus. Secondary habitats include: water, and soil. M. luteus has also been isolated from environments including polar ice, cheese, plants, milk, industrial effluents, and sponges.
M. luteus has been shown to survive in oligotrophic environments for extended periods of time. Recent work by Greenblatt et al. demonstrate that Micrococcus luteus has survived for at least 34,000 to 170,000 years on the basis of 16S rRNA analysis, and possibly much longer. M. luteus is considered a contaminant in sick patients and is resistant by slowing of major metabolic processes and induction of unique genes. It is a high G + C ratio bacterium.
Micrococcus luteus is a Gram-positive, to Gram-variable, nonmotile, Coccus, saprotrophic bacterium that belongs to the family Micrococcaceae. It is urease and catalase positive. An obligate aerobe, M. luteus is found in soil, dust, water and air, and as part of the normal flora of the mammalian skin. The bacterium also colonizes the human mouth, mucosae, oropharynx and upper respiratory tract. M. luteus is considered a contaminant in sick patients and is resistant by slowing of major metabolic processes and induction of unique genes. It is a high G + C ratio bacterium.
The genus's type species is Sarcina ventriculi, a variety found on the surface of cereal seeds, in soil, mud, and in the stomachs of humans, rabbits, and guinea pigs. 
This culture is Gram+, nonmotile cocci; strain of Micrococcus luteus; yellow colonies. It is cultured on Nutrient Agar at 25 degrees C in a tube. Each culture contains enough material for a class of 30 students. Cultures are guaranteed as to species and purity. 
Hi Jill -. Sarcina lutea and Micrococcus luteus are one and the same. The designation S. lutea was used in the late 1800s. Sarcina refers to the characteristic clustering of this species of bacteria into tetrads or dumbell shapes. Lutea means yellow, given the big-bird yellow pigment that colonies of M. luteus produce. The name Micrococcus was used later, to represent the fact that the size of these bacteria is smaller than that of their cousins, namely most Staphylococcus and Streptococcus species. -L.
Sarcina. a genus of anaerobic, gas-producing bacteria in the family Micrococcaceae. Sarcina-like bacteria. are observed in the abomasal wall and contents of a high proportion of milk-fed lambs, kids and calves that have died with abomasitis and abomasal bloat. A genus of nonmotile, strictly anaerobic bacteria containing gram-positive cocci, which divide in three perpendicular planes, producing regular packets of eight or more cells. Saprophytic and facultatively parasitic species occur. The type species is S. ventriculi.
The type species is Sarcina ventriculi. [L. sarcina, a pack, bundle, fr. sarcio, to mend, patch]. /Sar·ci·na/ (sahr´sĭ-nah) a genus of bacteria (family Micrococcaceae) found in soil and water as saprophytes. A genus of nonmotile, strictly anaerobic bacteria containing gram-positive cocci, which divide in three perpendicular planes, producing regular packets of eight or more cells. Saprophytic and facultatively parasitic species occur. The type species is S.
Sarcina. A genus of nonmotile, strictly anaerobic bacteria (family Peptococcaceae) containing gram-positive cocci, 1.8-3.0 mcm in diameter, which divide in three perpendicular planes, producing regular packets of eight or more cells. The metabolism of these chemoorganotrophic organisms is fermentative. A genus of nonmotile, strictly anaerobic bacteria containing gram-positive cocci, which divide in three perpendicular planes, producing regular packets of eight or more cells. Saprophytic and facultatively parasitic species occur. The type species is S. ventriculi.