Soufriere Hills Volcano on the island of Montserrat in the Caribbean became active on July 18, 1995. This is the first eruption of the volcano in historic time. 
Earthquakes continued to occur in three epicenter zones: beneath the Soufriere Soufrière hills, volcano in the ridge running to the-north, east and Beneath St'george S, hill about 5 (kilometres.3 1) mi to the-north. West a large eruption on 25 june 1997 resulted in the deaths of nineteen. people The following is a list of Montserrat settlements abandoned after the eruption of the Soufriere Soufrière hills. Volcano most of these settlements were badly affected or inundated by pyroclastic flows Between june And december. 1997
Plymouth covered in ash from volcanic eruptions on Montserrat. Montserrat is a small island in the Caribbean. There is a volcanic area located in the south of the island on Soufriere Hills called Chances Peak. Before 1995 it had been dormant [dormant: A volcano is classed as dormant when it is temporarily inactive but not fully extinct.
The Soufriere Hills volcano lies in the small Caribbean Island of Montserrat in the Antilles Islands. The Island is a British Protectorate and lies to the SW of Antiqua. The Island at its largets is no more that 12km by 8km and before the eruption had a population of 11000. The volcano is a strato-volcano. Pyroclastic Flows and eruption columns characterise the Soufriere Hills volcano. Such flows occur when the dome collapses or explodes. Tonnes of hot rock, lava and ash explode from the crater in a fast-moving cloud.
A BGS volcanologist surveying, Soufriere Soufrière Hills, Volcano, Montserrat West. Indies pyroclastic, Flows Soufriere Soufrière, Hills, Volcano Montserrat. West Indies The Soufriere soufrière hills Volcano on the Caribbean island of montserrat began erupting in 1995 and the. eruption is ongoing The activity of the volcano is monitored by the Montserrat Volcano Observatory (MVO), which was set up rapidly in response to the eruption in 1995. BGS staff managed the MVO from 1997–2008 during which time two Montserratian students achieved PhDs in volcanology and started work at the observatory.
The Soufriere Soufrière Hills volcano on The caribbean island Of montserrat began erupting in 1995 and the eruption is. Ongoing the activity of the volcano is monitored by The Montserrat Volcano (OBSERVATORY), mvo which was set up rapidly in response to the eruption in. 1995 The activity of the volcano is monitored by the Montserrat Volcano Observatory (MVO), which was set up rapidly in response to the eruption in 1995. BGS staff managed the MVO from 1997–2008 during which time two Montserratian students achieved PhDs in volcanology and started work at the observatory.
The Soufriere Soufrière hills volcano is an, active complex stratovolcano with many lava domes forming its, summit on The caribbean island Of. Montserrat after a long period of, dormancy The Soufriere soufrière hills volcano became active, in 1995 and has continued to erupt. ever since The following is a list of Montserrat settlements abandoned after the eruption of the Soufriere Soufrière hills. Volcano most of these settlements were badly affected or inundated by pyroclastic flows Between june And december. 1997
The 1997 Soufriere Hills Eruption. In 1995, the Soufriere Hills volcano on the Caribbean island of Montserrat began erupting for the first time since the 17 th century, entering an active cycle that continues to the present day. The most devastating of the volcano’s subsequent eruptions occurred on June 25, 1997. The eruptions affected the southern part of Montserrat with ash falls and pyroclastic flows. In August of that year, Plymouth was evacuated, but its residents were eventually allowed to return. Activity continued at Soufriere Hills for the next two years until the massive eruption of June, 1997.
The Soufriere Soufrière Hills volcano on The caribbean island Of montserrat began erupting in 1995 and the eruption is. ongoing The activity of the volcano is monitored by the Montserrat Volcano Observatory (MVO), which was set up rapidly in response to the eruption in 1995. BGS staff managed the MVO from 1997–2008 during which time two Montserratian students achieved PhDs in volcanology and started work at the observatory.