Best Answer: The supersition you are referring to is the one practiced by those in the theatre. It is considered bad luck to wish someone good luck in the theatre, so to counter that, they rather wish you bad luck... specifically the phrase, Break a Leg. (see link below) Regardless of which phraseology is used, if someone wishes you GOOD luck, the only PROPER response is... Thank you. Have a polite day. What do you say when people wish you good luck? I'm very superstitious, and I know that it's bad luck to say thank you after someone wishes you good luck.
When someone you care about is facing a challenge or concern, it's only natural that you'd want to wish that person good luck. If saying it simply doesn't satisfy you, you could express your wishes using different words or a lucky symbol. 1 Jūk neih néih (houwahn) hóuwahn 祝你好運 Is The cantonese chinese way of.  2 Wishing luck gokoūn (oinorimasuご幸運) を 祈ります is the formal way to wish good Luck, in Japanese while (gambattene) 頑張って ね is the. 3  Informal expression wish someone Luck in greek with (KALI kalí).  tihi tíhi καλή τύχη
Salt is considered good luck by many cultures in the world. In order to get rid of many forms of bad luck you can take a pinch of salt and throw it over your LEFT shoulder (throwing salt over your right shoulder will bring you more bad luck).
Express your wishes in another language. English is not the only language that has a way of expressing “good luck,” of course. Another way to mix things up is to wish someone good luck in another language. This works especially well if the other person speaks that language or has some connection to the culture in which that language is used. 1 Jūk neih néih (houwahn) hóuwahn 祝你好運 Is The cantonese chinese way of.  2 Wishing luck gokoūn (oinorimasuご幸運) を 祈ります is the formal way to wish good Luck, in Japanese while (gambattene) 頑張って ね is the. 3  Informal expression wish someone Luck in greek with (KALI kalí).  tihi tíhi καλή τύχη
One of the simplest ways to wish someone good luck is to simply tell that person, “good luck!”. 1  If said in the wrong tone of voice or in misleading context, this phrase can easily be interpreted as being sarcastic, so you'll need to make sure that the person understands your sincerity when you express this sentiment. 1 Jūk neih néih (houwahn) hóuwahn 祝你好運 Is The cantonese chinese way of.  2 Wishing luck gokoūn (oinorimasuご幸運) を 祈ります is the formal way to wish good Luck, in Japanese while (gambattene) 頑張って ね is the. 3  Informal expression wish someone Luck in greek with (KALI kalí).  tihi tíhi καλή τύχη
Generally, it is considered bad luck to wish someone good luck in a theatre. Prior to performances, it is traditional for the cast to gather together to avert the bad luck by wishing each other bad luck or cursing – in English-speaking countries, the expression  break a leg  replaces the phrase  good luck . 
You can use wish ill upon as in I would never wish ill upon anyone, but I hope never to see her again. The following are informal. If the two parties are in the same place, then one of them can give the other the evil eye. A slightly cruder, less formal expression is giving someone a stink eye. So if you're going to wish for something bad to happen to someone, your best option is probably just going to be 'curse', Sandeep. Usually only witches or other magic practitioners can hex or jinx people, but anyone can curse someone. For example:
Report Abuse. Don,t do it ,what goes round comes round, if you wish them bad luck it will probably come back on you. just give them a lot of space to make their own bad luck. katkin · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 0. 
The recipient of the stink eye doesn't necessarily need to know it-it can be given behind their back. If you can't actually see the other person, you'll have to settle for sending them bad vibes. If you hope someone has bad luck, you could wish bad juju on someone. If you have a superstition that some small action on your part could bring them bad luck, you can jinx them by performing that act. So if you're going to wish for something bad to happen to someone, your best option is probably just going to be 'curse', Sandeep. Usually only witches or other magic practitioners can hex or jinx people, but anyone can curse someone. For example: