First you work as an intake specialist and you work the cubicle for a little while. After that you move into a supervisory position over the other intake specialists you work with. This will take you right up the corporate ladder of the hospital or clinic you work in. You might be able to move into management of a larger department or even of health care staff. They make sure all the records are correct and all the codes for billing are in the right place, but a lot of that starts with an intake specialist. Sometimes codes and other billing matters can be messed up from the beginning if the patient is not handled correctly right off the bat.
1 View all UT Southwestern Medical Center jobs in Dallas, TX-Dallas jobs. 2  Salary Search: Intake Specialist Sccc salaries in Dallas, TX. 3  Learn more about working at Ut Southwestern Medical Center. 4  Related forums: UT Southwestern Medical Center. 1 View all Cantex Continuing Care Network jobs in Addison, TX-Addison jobs. 2  Salary Search: Intake Managed Care Specialist salaries in Addison, TX. 3  Learn more about working at Cantex Continuing Care Network. 4  Related forums: Cantex Continuing Care Network.
$ 39000 average intake specialist salaries for job postings in dallas tx are 2 % higher than average intake specialist salaries for job postings nationwide 
Intake Specialist Salary. (United States). Median pay for Intake Specialists in the United States is around $14.27 per hour. Earnings sit near $10.84 per hour on the lower side but can approach $18.90 on the higher side. Geography is the biggest factor affecting pay for this group, followed by experience level. Median of all compensation (including tips, bonus, and overtime) by years of experience. For Intake Specialists, experience does not seem to be a major factor in determining pay.
1 View all Diaz Law Firm jobs in Dallas, TX-Dallas jobs. 2  Salary Search: Intake Specialist salaries in Dallas, TX. 1 View all Cantex Continuing Care Network jobs in Addison, TX-Addison jobs. 2  Salary Search: Intake Managed Care Specialist salaries in Addison, TX. 3  Learn more about working at Cantex Continuing Care Network. 4  Related forums: Cantex Continuing Care Network.
1 View all Kforce jobs in Dallas, TX-Dallas jobs. 2  Salary Search: Intake Specialist salaries in Dallas, TX. 3  Learn more about working at Kforce. 4  Related forums: Kforce. 1 View all Cantex Continuing Care Network jobs in Addison, TX-Addison jobs. 2  Salary Search: Intake Managed Care Specialist salaries in Addison, TX. 3  Learn more about working at Cantex Continuing Care Network. 4  Related forums: Cantex Continuing Care Network.
May assign patients to mental health practitioners based on intake assessments. Requires a master's degree in a related area, 2-4 years of experience in the field or in a related area, and a state license. Familiar with a variety of the field's concepts, practices, and procedures. Relies on extensive experience and judgment to plan and accomplish goals.