You can check the specifications of your particular CPU at www.cpu-world.com which details the maximum operating temperature for many processors. In general you should consider 60 degrees Celcius the absolute maximum for long periods, but aim for 45-50 degrees to be safe. We explain the acceptable temperature range for CPUs in laptops and PCs, and how you can monitor your processor to check if it’s getting too hot.
The full-load temperature on correctly functioning processors will be less than the CPU's maximum operating temperature. The Intel Core i7-4765T and i7-920 CPUs both have maximum operating temperatures of 66 and 68 degrees Celsius, respectively (150 and 154 Fahrenheit). Both CPUs would run between 46 and 48 degrees Celsius (115 and 118 Fahrenheit) under a moderate workload. Unless you're running the Core i7 CPU under a constant full workload, the average temperature would be somewhere between the idle and moderate workload range.
Oct 16, 2013 - 12:15 AM. IDLE temperature (meaning the laptop is not doing anything) around 30-50 degrees celcius is perfectly normal. Idle temperature varied depending on what kind of processor and cooling setup you have. FULL LOAD temperature (meaning the laptop is working hard) can vary anywhere from 50-100+ degrees celcius. I think most people would agree that anywhere above 70 degrees celcius is getting on the warm side. There is some misconception here... IDLE temperature (meaning the laptop is not doing anything) around 30-50 degrees celcius is perfectly normal. Idle temperature varied depending on what kind of processor and cooling setup you have.
The appropriate operating temperature of your processor depends on its manufacturer, top clock speed, where the sensor is located, and what programs it is currently running. However, this document should give you a general idea of what temperatures are acceptable under certain conditions. Continuing to use a computer that has a processor that is exceeding its temperature will reduce the life expectancy of the processor. Note: Depending on your computer's hardware layout, the thermal sensors may not be positioned in an optimal location.
You can approximate the average temperature a given CPU should run at based on the maximum operating temperature. CPUs fluctuate between 20 to 30 degrees Celsius (36 to 54 Fahrenheit) in normal use between idle and full-load. Both CPUs would run between 46 and 48 degrees Celsius (115 and 118 Fahrenheit) under a moderate workload. Unless you're running the Core i7 CPU under a constant full workload, the average temperature would be somewhere between the idle and moderate workload range.
The average temperature of an Intel Core i7 processor depends on the processor model, how hard the CPU is working and the computer case ambient temperature. The Core i7 branding name refers to the higher-end models within multiple Intel processor generations. Both CPUs would run between 46 and 48 degrees Celsius (115 and 118 Fahrenheit) under a moderate workload. Unless you're running the Core i7 CPU under a constant full workload, the average temperature would be somewhere between the idle and moderate workload range.
You can look up temperature specifications for your specific laptop's Intel or AMD processor, but most CPUs' maximum temperatures are around 100° Celsius (212° Fahrenheit). Several free temperature monitoring programs are available that can show you the CPU temperature as well as other system details like processor load, voltages, and more. Some of them can also automatically or manually adjust the speed of your laptop's fan for best performance. Here are a couple that I've used before:
The majority of today's desktop processors should not exceed temperatures of 35°C and most run between 21°-32°C. Below is a chart listing many types of processors and their average temperatures. Keep in mind, this is only to give our users a general idea of what their processor should be running at. If you believe your computer is running too hot, you can skip to the bottom of this document for information about the safe temperature range for your processor. Continuing to use a computer that has a processor that is exceeding its temperature will reduce the life expectancy of the processor. Note: Depending on your computer's hardware layout, the thermal sensors may not be positioned in an optimal location.