Tramadol is used primarily to treat mild-severe pain, both acute and chronic. Tramadol is recommended for the management of pain in fibromyalgia by the European League Against Rheumatism. Tramadol is marketed as a racemic mixture of both R-and S-stereoisomers. This is because the two isomers complement each other's analgesic activity. It is often combined with paracetamol (acetaminophen) as this is known to improve the efficacy of tramadol in relieving pain.
Tramadol, like other narcotics used for the treatment of pain, may be abused. Tramadol is not a nonsteroidal anti-iinflammatory drug (NSAID) and does not have the increased risk of stomach ulceration and internal bleeding that can occur with NSAIDs. The FDA approved tramadol in March 1995. PRESCRIBED FOR: Tramadol is used in the management of moderate to moderately severe pain. Extended release tablets are used for moderate to moderately severe chronic pain in adults who require continuous treatment for an extended period. Medically Reviewed by a Doctor on 2/25/2015. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Tramadol is a man-made (synthetic) analgesic (pain reliever). Its exact mechanism of action is unknown, but it is similar to morphine.
Featured article ». Tramadol is used to relieve moderate to moderately severe pain, including pain after surgery. The extended-release or long-acting tablets are used for chronic ongoing pain. Tramadol belongs to the group of medicines called opioid analgesics. It acts in the central nervous system (CNS) to relieve pain. 
Tramadol Uses. Tramadol is an opioid analgesic used to treat moderate to severe pain. Tramadol was developed by the German pharmaceutical company Grunenthal GmbH in the late 1970s, marketed under the name Tramal. It is also licensed under other names including Ultram. Tramadol hydrochloride is a Generic name brand for Ultram, it is usually used to treat moderate to moderately severe pain. Tramadol is available in extended release tablets and should be taken exactly as directed.
Tramadol (marketed as Ultram, and as generics) is an opioid pain medication used to treat moderate to moderately severe pain. When taken as an immediate-release oral formulation, the onset of pain relief usually occurs within about an hour. It has two different mechanisms. First, it binds to the μ-opioid receptor. Tramadol is marketed as a racemic mixture of both R-and S-stereoisomers. This is because the two isomers complement each other's analgesic activity. It is often combined with paracetamol (acetaminophen) as this is known to improve the efficacy of tramadol in relieving pain.
USES: This medication is used to help relieve moderate to moderately severe pain. Tramadol is similar to narcotic analgesics. It works in the brain to change how your body feels and responds to pain. 
Tramadol, like other narcotics used for the treatment of pain, may be abused. Tramadol is not a nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drug (NSAID) and does not have the increased risk of stomach ulceration and internal bleeding that can occur with NSAIDs. This answer should not be considered medical advice... Tramadol is a man-made (synthetic) analgesic (pain reliever). Its exact mechanism of action is unknown but similar morphine. Like morphine, tramadol binds to receptors in the brain (opioid receptors) that are important for transmitting the sensation of pain from throughout the body to.
Tramadol is used to relieve moderate to moderately severe pain. Tramadol extended-release tablets are only used by people who are expected to need medication to relieve pain around-the-clock for a long time. Tramadol is in a class of medications called opiate agonists. It works by changing the way the body senses pain.
Tramadol is a pain relief medication that has neurological effects which result in pain relief throughout the body. This pain killer is not a narcotic so it can be used for extensive treatment without the possible of Tramadol usage growing into a drug addiction. This is one of the stronger pain killers that is not classified as a narcotic. Tramadol HCL is similar to Tramadol however the formula for Tramadol HCL allows it to be used as an extended release drug. Extended Release. Almost all the information on Tramadol and Tramadol HCL will be the same.
Tramadol is a narcotic-like pain reliever. Tramadol hydrochloride is a Generic name brand for Ultram, it is usually used to treat moderate to moderately severe pain. Tramadol is available in extended release tablets and should be taken exactly as directed.