Overview. Although you have more than 600 muscles in your body, there are only three types of muscle: smooth, cardiac and skeletal. Each muscle helps to keep you in motion, your heart beating or signal a natural response in your body, such as the ability to keep your eyes focused. Other examples of smooth muscle include the uterus, the bladder and the muscle behind the eyes that keeps your eyes focused. In terms of appearance, smooth muscles are long, thin-shaped cells attached to bones in the body. Smooth muscles are also found in the blood vessels, helping blood to move around the body.
There are three types of muscle tissue found in the human body. There are visceral muscles, which consist of smooth muscle tissue, which is controlled by the autonomic nervous … system and responds to both hormones and neural stimulation. Smooth muscles have no striations, as the nucleus is centrally located. Cardiac, skeletal, and smooth muscles.   the three types of muscle in the body: cardiac (heart), skeletal (biceps, quadriceps etc.), and smooth muscle (found in the intest … inal tract such as stomach and colon).
Best Answer: I just had an exam on muscles, great stuff. There are three different types of muscle tissue: smooth, cardiac and skeletal. They all have different functions and because of that different structures. SKELETAL muscle is classified as striated due to the fact that all the filaments inside the muscle cells are arranged in an orderly fashion into sarcomeres
3 types of muscles: 1) Smooth muscle-controlled by the autonomic nervous system; may either be generally inactive and then respond to neural stimulation or hormones or may be rhythmic. 2) Cardiac muscle-found in the heart, acts like rhythmic smooth muscle, modulated by neural activity and hormones. 
Muscle tissue varies with function and location in the body. In mammals the three types are: skeletal or striated muscle; smooth or non-striated muscle; and cardiac muscle, which is sometimes known as semi-striated.
Muscle tissues are derived from the mesodermal layer of embryonic germ cells in a process known as myogenesis. There are three types of muscle, skeletal or striated, cardiac, and smooth. Muscle action can be classified as being either voluntary or involuntary. Muscle is a soft tissue found in most animals. Muscle cells contain protein filaments of actin and myosin that slide past one another, producing a contraction that changes both the length and the shape of the cell.
Smooth, Cardiac, and Skeletal are the three muscle types skeletal,smooth,cardiac skeletal, cardiac, and smooth muscle skeletal muscle, smooth muscle, and cardiac muscle. They are the cardiac, smooth and skeletal muscles. The three basic types of muscles are: voluntary muscles, cardiac muscles, and involuntary muscles. Cardiac, skeletal, and smooth muscles.   the three types of muscle in the body: cardiac (heart), skeletal (biceps, quadriceps etc.), and smooth muscle (found in the intest … inal tract such as stomach and colon).
The three different types are the skeletal, smooth, and cardiac  muscles. The cardiac muscles are ONLY found in the heart area, the  skeletal is the muscle that moves the bo … nes and the smooth muscle  is in most of your main organs. Prachi Tejan. Cardiac, skeletal, and smooth muscles.   the three types of muscle in the body: cardiac (heart), skeletal (biceps, quadriceps etc.), and smooth muscle (found in the intest … inal tract such as stomach and colon).
Three types of muscles. The muscular system can be broken down into three types of muscles: skeletal, smooth and cardiac, according to the NIH. Skeletal muscles are the only voluntary muscle tissue in the human body and control every action that a person consciously performs. 