(May 2015). The juxtaglomerular apparatus is a microscopic structure in the kidney that regulates the function of each nephron, the functional units of the kidney. The juxtaglomerular apparatus is named because it is next to (juxta-) the glomerulus. 1 Adenosine constricts the afferent arteriole via A1 receptors and dilates (to a lesser degree) efferent arterioles via A2 receptors. 2  This acts to decrease the glomerular filtrate rate. 3  Adenosine also inhibits renin release in juxtaglomerular cells via A1 receptors on JG cells using a Gi pathway.
The juxtaglomerular apparatus consists of three cell types. These are: 1  the macula densa, a part of the distal convoluted tubule of the same nephron. 2  juxtaglomerular cells, which secrete renin, specialized smooth muscle cells of the afferent arteriole, which supplies blood to the glomerulus. 3  extraglomerular mesangial cells. 1 Adenosine constricts the afferent arteriole via A1 receptors and dilates (to a lesser degree) efferent arterioles via A2 receptors. 2  This acts to decrease the glomerular filtrate rate. 3  Adenosine also inhibits renin release in juxtaglomerular cells via A1 receptors on JG cells using a Gi pathway.
Macula densa cells are located in the distal convoluted tubule, and stimulate juxtaglomerular cells to release renin when they detect a drop in sodium concentration in tubular fluid. Together, juxtaglomerular cells and macula densa cells comprise the juxtaglomerular complex. The juxtaglomerular cells (JG cells, or granular cells) are cells in the kidney that synthesize, store, and secrete the enzyme renin.
In synthesizing renin, they play a critical role in the renin-angiotensin system and thus in autoregulation of the kidney. Juxtaglomerular cells secrete renin in response to a drop in pressure detected by stretch receptors in the vascular walls, or when stimulated by macula densa cells. The juxtaglomerular cells (JG cells, or granular cells) are cells in the kidney that synthesize, store, and secrete the enzyme renin.
The juxtaglomerular apparatus is a microscopic structure in the kidney, which regulates the function of each nephron. The juxtaglomerular apparatus is named for its proximity … to the glomerulus: it is found between the vascular pole of the renal corpuscle and the returning thick ascending limb of the same nephron. This location is critical to its function in regulating renal blood flow and glomerular filtration rate. What does the juxtaglomerular apparatus do? already exists. already exists as an alternate of this question. exists and is an alternate of. What is Anniversary? What enzyme is released by the juxtaglomerular cells? What is apparatus? What is didactic apparatus? What structures form the juxtaglomerular apparatus? Which enzyme is secreted by the ...
Juxtaglomeruar Apparatus (JGA) consists of: 1) Juxtaglomerular cells (modified smooth muscle cells) of afferent arteriole including renin containing (synthesizes and stores renin) and sympathetically innervated granulated cells which function as mechanoreceptors to sense blood pressure. The macula densa senses the load and causes constriction of nearby afferent arteriole, increasing the resistance. This will return osmolality and filtrate flow rate to normal. Decreased renal arterial pressure leads to a decreased delivery of fluid (decreased osmolality or decreased flow rate) to the macula densa.
A Dictionary of Biology | 2004 | 700+ words. © A Dictionary of Biology 2004, originally published by Oxford University Press 2004. juxtaglomerular apparatus (JGA) A region of tissue found in each nephron in the kidney that is important is regulating blood pressure and body fluid and electrolytes. 
juxtaglomerular apparatus (JGA). Consist of the juxtaglomerular cells of an afferent or efferent arteriole and the. macula. densa. cells of the distal convoluted tubule. The JGA helps regulate. blood pressure and the rate of blood filtration by the kidneys. Renin is released to the blood by JGA cells due to decreased renal blood flow or perfusion. Renin converts a plasma protein (angiotensinogen) into angiotensin I Angiotensin-Converting Enzyme (ACE) in the lungs convertes Angiotensin I into Angiotensin II