1 Five companies (Modelama Exports Ltd., Shahi Exports Pvt. Ltd., Pearl Global Ltd., Company G of Group R, Orient Crafts Ltd.) were identified using “Mapping First Tier Suppliers in Garment Industry in Delhi,” a CEC report submitted by G. Manicandan. 1 The AEPC did not have company specific financial data, as it is self-reported. 2  The researcher purchased the newest book of statistics on industry level data that the AEPC had (2003) and a directory of garment exporters.
It has a current production capacity of 7.5 million units per month (approx) witharound 65% of production comprising of woven garments and rest in knitted garments. The Company caters mainly to renowned brands in the markets of US and Europe such as GAP, Target, Wal-Mart, Espirit, Tommy Hilfiger etc. Revenue growth and pricing flexibility will depend on economic scenario in key consuming markets like United States (US) and Europe. Company has limited bargaining power vis-a-à vis customers who are typically very large. entities
1 However, according to G. Manicandan’s “Mapping First Tier Suppliers in Garment Industry in Delhi,” Modelama uses labor contractors for some of its other units, such as the unit located at 200, Phase-I Gurgaon. 1 The AEPC did not have company specific financial data, as it is self-reported. 2  The researcher purchased the newest book of statistics on industry level data that the AEPC had (2003) and a directory of garment exporters.
The company uses 800 baskets in production each month. The costs of making one basket is $4 for direct materials, $3 for variable manufacturing overhead, $2 for direct labor and $5 for fixed manufacturing overhead. The unit cost is based on the monthly usage of 800 baskets. The company determined that 30% of the fixed manufacturing overhead is avoidable. The fixed overhead costs are unavoidable. Tenchavez allocates fixed overhead costs based on its annual capacity of 15,000 pairs it is able to make. An overseas company recently offered to buy 3,000 pairs of shoes at $21 per pair.
The company is into production of woven, knitted, cotton and blended garments for men, ladies and children which are exported mainly to US and Europe. At present Shahi has more than 40 manufacturing facilities located in Delhi, Faridabad, Noida, Bangalore and Tirupur and has more than 65000 employee base. Revenue growth and pricing flexibility will depend on economic scenario in key consuming markets like United States (US) and Europe. Company has limited bargaining power vis-a-à vis customers who are typically very large. entities
The outlook assigned to the long term rating is Stable. ICRA, has reaffirmed the short term rating assigned to Rs. 520 crores fund based limits (enhanced from Rs. 200 crores) at [ICRA]A2 (pronounced as ICRA A two). Revenue growth and pricing flexibility will depend on economic scenario in key consuming markets like United States (US) and Europe. Company has limited bargaining power vis-a-à vis customers who are typically very large. entities
The costs per unit are as follows: Direct materials $ 3.00 Direct labor 8.00 Variable overhead 4.00 Fixed overhead 7.00 Total $22.00 Howard Company has contacted Evans with an offer to sell it 3,000 subassemblies for $18.00 each. $5 of the fixed overhead per unit is unavoidable. The fixed overhead costs are unavoidable. Tenchavez allocates fixed overhead costs based on its annual capacity of 15,000 pairs it is able to make. An overseas company recently offered to buy 3,000 pairs of shoes at $21 per pair.
Company Profile Shahi Exports Pvt Ltd was started in 1974 in Delhi by Mrs Sarla Ahuja and her son Mr Harish Ahuja as a garment manufacturing export house.. It expanded its operations by opening new units in Bangalore which commenced production in 1988. Revenue growth and pricing flexibility will depend on economic scenario in key consuming markets like United States (US) and Europe. Company has limited bargaining power vis-a-à vis customers who are typically very large. entities