Generally, a fever, poor appetite, and lethargy accompany the more specific symptoms of a URI. Duration of feline upper respiratory infections. Generally an infection will last for 7–21 days. There is an incubation period, the time period from point of infection to when clinical signs become apparent, of 2–10 days.
Background. Upper respiratory tract infection (URI) represents the most common acute illness evaluated in the outpatient setting. URIs range from the common cold—typically a mild, self-limited, catarrhal syndrome of the nasopharynx—to life-threatening illnesses such as epiglottitis. Practice Essentials. Upper respiratory tract infection (URI) represents the most common acute illness evaluated in the outpatient setting. URIs range from the common cold—typically a mild, self-limited, catarrhal syndrome of the nasopharynx—to life-threatening illnesses such as epiglottitis (see the image below).
Bacterial infections may develop after a viral illness such as a cold or the flu. Bacterial infections may affect the upper or lower respiratory system, and symptoms tend to localize to one area. The most common sites of bacterial infections in the upper respiratory system are the sinuses and throat. 
Symptoms of the common cold usually begin 2-3 days after inoculation. Viral URIs typically last 6.6 days in children aged 1-2 years in home care and 8.9 days for children older than 1 year in daycare. Cold symptoms in adults can last from 3-14 days, but most people recover or have symptomatic improvement within a week.
A cold is an infection of the nose and throat, caused by a virus. A cold is also called a viral upper respiratory infection. Many different viruses, up to 200, can cause a cold. In any given year, a child is likely to get from 6 to 12 colds. Having many colds does not mean your child has a weak immune system.
The symptoms of a cold start from 1 to 3 days after your child has been in contact with the cold virus. Usually, the symptoms last about one week, but this varies in each child, and may last even up to 2 weeks. The following are the most common symptoms of a cold. However, each child may experience symptoms differently.
An upper respiratory infection (URI), also known as the common cold, is one of the most common illnesses, leading to more health care provider visits and absences from school and work than any other illness every year. It is estimated that during a 1-year period, people in the U.S. will suffer 1 billion colds. Usually, the symptoms last about one week, but this varies in each child, and may last even up to 2 weeks. The following are the most common symptoms of a cold. However, each child may experience symptoms differently.
A majority of upper respiratory infections are due to self-limited viral infections. Occasionally, bacterial infections may cause upper respiratory infections. Most often, upper respiratory infection is contagious and can spread from person to person by inhaling respiratory droplets from coughing or sneezing. The transmission can also occur by touching the nose or mouth by hand or other object exposed to the virus. Continue Reading.
. . z More than 200 different viruses can cause the common cold (viral URI). z Viruses do not respond to antibiotic treatment. z Symptoms due to viral URI typically last 2 - 14 days, but some symptoms can linger for several weeks. (Most people recover in about 7-10 days.) z Productive cough or discolored nasal discharge does not necessarily require antibiotic therapy. z Influenza (flu) is a viral infection caused by the influenza virus. 