When you are unable or unavailable to accomplish certain tasks, such as accessing your bank accounts, you may need an agent to act for you. A power of attorney is the document that gives your agent this authority, and it usually provides for reimbursement for reasonable expenses. State laws vary on the types of expenses for which an agent can be reimbursed, but you often can adapt these rules to fit your situation.
A POA fee is the annual fee all Hilton Head Island communities have for the services they provide. Villa or condo fees cannot be generalized. if you want the monthly Regime Fee for a specific villa, please send me a request with your first and last name and your e-mail address along with the number of the unit and the name of the complex. I'm happy to provide you the most up-to-date information available.
Fees and Reimbursement Most powers of attorney prepared by our firm do not allow the agent to receive a fee. If the power of attorney is silent on the issue, you may receive reasonable fees for serving as agent. In some cases, the power of attorney may specifically allow for fees and provide for how they are to be determined. If you do receive a fee, you are responsible for reporting it as income on your income tax return. 
If you're looking for a quick number, multiply the sales price by .005 and you will be in the ballpark for a permanent resident in Bluffton. As far as the POA fees-they will vary in Bluffton anywhere from $0 to $18,000 a year depending on the community and the amenities of each. I have a spreadsheet with all the POA fees listed on it but I can attach it to this answer-if you'd like to contact me directly, I will be glad to email it to you. In the meantime, I can provide you two ways to find them.
Use a Power of Attorney if: 1  You want to grant authority to someone to act on your behalf in your absence. 2  You want to grant authority to someone to act on your behalf in the event you become incapacitated. When you need a little help making big decisions, a Power of Attorney form (also known as a POA) allows you to give legal permission to someone else to act on your behalf. With a Power of Attorney, you can give someone the ability to: 1  Write checks. 2  Sign official documents. 3  Handle other legal matters on your behalf
POA stands for Property Owners Association which is a group of owners that oversee the roads, the security, the common area maintenance, the insurance, the lighting and landscaping in these common areas. This can be a problem if you are prospective purchaser looking at real estate in the Hilton Head Area. You will probably want to enlist the aid of a local REALTOR to see all the properties the area offers in and outside the gates. Here is a list of all the POA fees in the Hilton Head Area for 2012
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Power of Attorney is not a person. It is the authority to act for someone else. The person with the power of attorney is called the representative. A person cannot BE the power of attorney. They HAVE the power of attorney. And there is no standard fee. If the rep is a relative, they can do it for free. And the power does not always expire when the principal dies.
In the communities where a socia.l or golf membership are not required, POA fees range from about $500/ year to about $3400/ year depending on the community. Taxes on a $350,000 purchase are very affordable if this is your primary home...they would be about $1,870 yearly. I have a spreadsheet with all the POA fees listed on it but I can attach it to this answer-if you'd like to contact me directly, I will be glad to email it to you. In the meantime, I can provide you two ways to find them.