233. An unusual color of the bowel movement could be caused by a food or dietary supplement but it could also be a symptom of a serious problem. The stool color varies from person to person but it also may vary from stool to stool in the same person. Stool color is generally influenced by what you eat as well as by the amount of bile (a yellow-green fluid that helps digest fats) in the stool. As bile pigments travel through your gastrointestinal tract, they are chemically altered by enzymes changing the pigments from green to brown. 
1 The symptoms associated with stool color changes, if any, are the symptoms of the underlying cause cause of the change, for example, foods, drinks, conditions, or illnesses such as. 2  diet (beets, diets rich in green vegetables, licorice), 3  gallbladder disease, 4  celiac disease, 5  ulcerative colitis, 6  Crohn's disease, 7  tumors, In most cases, stool color changes are not symptoms of disease. Changes in stool color may be due to: 1  Diarrhea may cause green or yellow stools. 2  Some foods (beets, Jell-O, licorice). 3  A few OTC and prescription medications. 4  Diseases affecting the liver, pancreas, and intestines.
Changes in Stool Color. Certain stool colors can signify health problems. These include: Red or maroon stool: referred to as hematochezia and may indicate gastrointestinal bleeding that originates from the colon. Red colored stool may also be a result of ingesting certain foods such as beets, rhubarb, radishes and turnips. Black stool: may indicate bleeding in the stomach or the upper part of the small intestine. Black stool that results from a gastrointestinal bleeding is often associated with a tarry texture and foul odor. Iron pills or certain medications, like Pepto Bismol, may also cause black stool.
1 Changes in stool color may be due to diarrhea; bleeding in the intestine; diseases of the intestines, liver, or pancreas; and medications. 2  Diagnosis when stool color changes depends on what process is suspected of causing the change, for example, gastrointestinal (GI) endoscopy if bleeding is supsected. In most cases, stool color changes are not symptoms of disease. Changes in stool color may be due to: 1  Diarrhea may cause green or yellow stools. 2  Some foods (beets, Jell-O, licorice). 3  A few OTC and prescription medications. 4  Diseases affecting the liver, pancreas, and intestines
Yesterday, my stool color was bright green. Stool comes in a range of colors. All shades of brown and even green are considered normal. Only rarely does stool color indicate a potentially serious intestinal condition. Stool color is generally influenced by what you eat as well as by the amount of bile — a yellow-green fluid that digests fats — in your stool. As bile pigments travel through your gastrointestinal tract, they are chemically altered by enzymes — changing the pigments from green to brow
Red, maroon or black, tarry stools that are caused by bleeding from the gastrointestinal tract (esophagus, stomach, small intestine, large intestine) may have the accompanying symptoms: 1  Abdominal pain. 2  Nausea or vomiting of blood. 3  Diarrhea and cramping. 4  Weakness, lightheadedness, and dizziness. Black stool: may indicate bleeding in the stomach or the upper part of the small intestine. Black stool that results from a gastrointestinal bleeding is often associated with a tarry texture and foul odor. Iron pills or certain medications, like Pepto Bismol, may also cause black stool.
Stool (feces) color is most commonly brown. When stool color changes an person often becomes concerned. The presence of the bilirubin in the bile (a breakdown product of the hemoglobin in red blood cells that are normally destroyed after a useful life of several weeks) is generally responsible for stool color. In most cases, stool color changes are not symptoms of disease. Changes in stool color may be due to: 1  Diarrhea may cause green or yellow stools. 2  Some foods (beets, Jell-O, licorice). 3  A few OTC and prescription medications. 4  Diseases affecting the liver, pancreas, and intestines
More often than not, people don't take notice of stool color and may not bother about stool colors and what they mean until they suffer from digestive health issues. Under such situations, the stool color meanings hold importance, as a specific color can be indicative of certain diseases. Stool color, changes mainly due to two factors. These are the type of food eaten and the amount of bile that mixes with the stool. The examination of feces or stool yields a lot of information about the overall health of your digestive system.