Adelaide, Australia, May 21, 2013 - (ABN Newswire) - Uranium developer, Toro Energy Limited (ASX:TOE) (OTCMKTS:TOEYF) is pleased to announce the Company has signed a binding Heads of Agreement (HoA) with Rum Jungle Resources Ltd (ASX:RUM) in which Rum will farm into Toro's rights for potash and related. 
More example sentences. 1  Turbidite deposits and westward younging of limestones and evaporites record the development of the foreland fold and thrust belt during the Late Carboniferous Epoch. 2  The Rhaetian-Lower Sinemurian shallow ramp units are composed of platform carbonates, evaporites and minor siliciclastic deposits. A natural salt or mineral deposit left after the evaporation of a body of water: non-marine evaporites include borax [as modifier]: evaporite deposits.
Sabkha is a phonetic translation of the Arabic word for a salt flat. Sabkhas are supratidal, forming along arid coastlines and are characterized by evaporite-carbonate deposits with some siliciclastics. The flatness of a sabkha is enhanced by aeolian siliciclastic dust being deposited in the topographic lows with most of the relief caused by evaporites. These environments can be found laterally contemporaneous in parallel belts to the coast as well.
Formation of evaporite rocks [edit]. Although all water bodies on the surface and in aquifers contain dissolved salts, the water must evaporate into the atmosphere for the minerals to precipitate. In fact, most evaporite formations do not contain more than a few percent of evaporite minerals, the remainder being composed of the more typical detrital clastic rocks and carbonates. Examples of evaporate formations include occurrences of evaporite sulfur in Eastern Europe and West Asia.
For a formation to be recognised as evaporitic it may simply require recognition of halite pseudomorphs, sequences composed of some proportion of evaporite minerals, and recognition of mud crack textures or other textures. In fact, most evaporite formations do not contain more than a few percent of evaporite minerals, the remainder being composed of the more typical detrital clastic rocks and carbonates. Examples of evaporate formations include occurrences of evaporite sulfur in Eastern Europe and West Asia.
Adelaide, Australia, May 21, 2013 - (ABN Newswire) - Uranium developer, Toro Energy Limited (ASX:TOE) (OTCMKTS:TOEYF) is pleased to announce the Company has signed a binding Heads of Agreement (HoA) with Rum Jungle Resources Ltd (ASX:RUM) in which Rum will farm into Toro's rights for potash and related. 
Full Definition of EVAPORATE. transitive verb. 1. a: to convert into vapor; also: to dissipate or draw off in vapor or fumes b: to deposit (as a metal) in the form of a film by sublimation. 2. a: to expel moisture from. intransitive verb. 1. a: to pass off in vapor or in minute particles (2) : to diminish quickly. 2. 
Definition of EVAPORITE. : a sedimentary rock (as gypsum) that originates by evaporation of seawater in an enclosed basin. — evap·o·rit·ic \-ˌva-pə-ˈri-tik\ adjective. See evaporite defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT.
Evaporite minerals, especially nitrate minerals, are economically important in Peru and Chile. Nitrate minerals are often mined for use in the production on fertilizer and explosives. In fact, most evaporite formations do not contain more than a few percent of evaporite minerals, the remainder being composed of the more typical detrital clastic rocks and carbonates. Examples of evaporate formations include occurrences of evaporite sulfur in Eastern Europe and West Asia.
Evaporite /ɨˈvaepəraɪt/ ɨˈvæpəraɪt is a name for a-water soluble mineral sediment that results from concentration and crystallization by evaporation from an aqueous. solution In fact, most evaporite formations do not contain more than a few percent of evaporite minerals, the remainder being composed of the more typical detrital clastic rocks and carbonates. Examples of evaporate formations include occurrences of evaporite sulfur in Eastern Europe and West Asia.