DEFINITION of 'Kaizen'. A philosophy that sees improvement in productivity as a gradual and methodical process. Kaizen is a Japanese term meaning change for the better. The concept of Kaizen encompasses a wide range of ideas: it involves making the work environment more efficient and effective by creating a team atmosphere, improving everyday procedures, ensuring employee satisfaction and making a job more fulfilling, less tiring and safer.
Kaizen. Kaizen is a management strategy that focuses on constant, process-oriented improvement (Imai, 1986).. Kaizen is a Japanese word typically translated as 'continuous improvement'. The term refers to the strategy of making small improvements on a continuous basis. Kaizen Definition. Kaizen, as a philosophy, is defined as the spirit of improvement based on the spirit of cooperation and commitment; equally relevant in personal, home, social and working life (Brunet, 2000).
The word Kaizen is translated from Japanese in a number of ways, most simply as “change for the better.” Breaking down the word and its characters (shown at left): “Kai” means “change.” “zen” means “good.” A “Kaizen” is a small improvement that is made by those who do the work. It is a small, low-cost, low-risk improvement that can be easily implemented. Kaizen is an ongoing methodology and philosophy for challenging and empowering everyone in the organization to use their creative ideas to improve their daily work. The word Kaizen, the way it is typically used, is synonymous with the phrase “continuous improvement.” An effective Kaizen approach is about making improvements that are connected to measurable results and a deeper purpose.
When used in the business sense and applied to the workplace, kaizen refers to activities that continuously improve all functions and involve all employees from the CEO to the assembly line workers. Kaizen was first implemented in several Japanese businesses after the Second World War, influenced in part by American business and quality management teachers who visited the country. It has since spread throughout the world and is now being implemented in environments outside of business and productivity.
The Sino-Japanese word kaizen simply means change for better, with no inherent meaning of either continuous or philosophy in Japanese dictionaries or in everyday use. The word refers to any improvement, one-time or continuous, large or small, in the same sense as the English word improvement. Kaizen was first implemented in several Japanese businesses after the Second World War, influenced in part by American business and quality management teachers who visited the country. It has since spread throughout the world and is now being implemented in environments outside of business and productivity.
For more recent articles on process improvement and operational excellence, check our latest articles. Gemba Kaizen is a Japanese concept of continuous improvement designed for enhancing processes and reducing waste. Within a lean context, Gemba simply refers to the location where value is created, while Kaizen relates to improvements. 
Kaizen (Continuous Improvement) is a strategy where employees at all levels of a company work together proactively to achieve regular, incremental improvements to the manufacturing process. Kaizen is part action plan and part philosophy. 1  As an action plan, Kaizen is about organizing events focused on improving specific areas within the company. 2  As a philosophy, Kaizen is about building a culture where all employees are actively engaged in suggesting and implementing improvements to
Kaizen is a Japanese word meaning continuous improvement. It's made up of two characters in Japanese: kai, which means 'change,' and zen, which means 'good.' It's used to describe a company culture where everyone, from the CEO to the front desk clerk, regularly evaluates his or her work and thinks of ways to improve it. for Teachers for Schools for Companies. Kaizen is a Japanese word for 'continuous improvement.' Kaizen methods can be used to improve the results of any firm and can also be used in your personal life. Read on to learn the what, how and why of kaizen.
The concept of Kaizen can be explained as a principle of continuous improvement. According to the Kaizen philosophy, a series of small improvements made continuously over a long period of time can result in drastic improvement in business processes. This is the way in which Kaizen principle helps to beat the competition. The Kaizen philosophy of work is to stress employee participation in decision making process. Every employee is considered as a link in the process