The breakthrough understanding of hepatitis came in 1963 when Dr Baruch Blumberg discovered an antigen that detected the presence of hepatitis B (HBV) in blood samples. At the time, Dr Blumberg was actually researching the genetics of disease susceptibility.
Worldwide, chronic hepatitis B is the tenth leading cause of death. Hepatitis B was first discovered in 1963 by Dr. Baruch Blumberg and colleagues, who identified a protein (the “Australia antigen” that reacted to antibodies from patients with hemophilia and leukemia.
Hepatitis B Vaccine The hepatitis B virus was discovered in 1965, and by 1970 diagnostic tests were available for routine screening of blood donors to prevent this type of transfusion-transmitted hepatitis.
2014 marks the 25th anniversary of the discovery of the Hepatitis C virus. Since the virus was discovered in 1989, significant public health and research advances have led to great progress in curbing new infections and developing life-saving treatment options.
Background. Hepatitis D virus (HDV) is an RNA virus that is structurally unrelated to hepatitis A (HAV), hepatitis B (HBV), or hepatitis C virus (HCV). It was discovered in 1977. HDV causes a unique infection that requires the assistance of viral particles from HBV to replicate and infect other hepatocytes.
A series of research and clinical observations led to confimation that the Australia antigen caused hepatitis B and thus, this was how the hepatitis B virus was discovered in 1967. Two years later, Dr. Blumberg and Dr. Iriving Millman invented the hepatitis B vaccine, which is another fascinating story!
The hepatitis B virus was discovered in 1965 by Dr. Baruch Blumberg who won the Nobel Prize for his discovery. Originally, the virus was called the Australia Antigen because it was named for an Australian aborigine's blood sample that reacted with an antibody in the serum of an American hemophilia patient.
In 1976, Dr. Blumberg won the Nobel Prize in Medicine for his discovery of the hepatitis B virus. He and his colleagues discovered the virus in 1967, developed the blood test that is used to detect the virus, and invented the first hepatitis B vaccine in 1969.