Origin of the name Lorraine: Transferred use of the surname originating from the name of a province in eastern France, which is derived from the Latin Lotharingia (territory of the people of Lothar). 
PRONOUNCED: lə-RAYN [key]. Meaning & History. From the name of a region in France, originally meaning kingdom of LOTHAR . Lothar was a Frankish king, the great-grandson of Charlemagne, whose realm was in the part of France that is now called Lorraine, or in German Lothringen (from Latin Lothari regnum). 
Latin Meaning: The name Lorraine is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Lorraine is: Sea gull. German Meaning: The name Lorraine is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Lorraine is: Made famous in battle. SoulUrge Number: 3. Expression Number: 11. People with this name have a deep inner desire to create and express themselves, often in public speaking, acting, writing or singing.
The name Lorraine is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Lorraine is: From Lorraine. From Lotharingia. From Lothair's Kingdom. Lothair was a ruler of the region during the 9th century. The name Lorraine is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Lorraine is: Made famous in battle. SoulUrge Number: 3. Expression Number: 11. People with this name have a deep inner desire to create and express themselves, often in public speaking, acting, writing or singing.
What Does LORRAINE Mean and History? From the name of a region in France, originally meaning “kingdom of LOTHAR”. Lothar was a Frankish king, the great-grandson of Charlemagne, whose realm was in the part of France that is now called Lorraine, or in German Lothringen (from Latin Lothari regnum).
[ 2 syll. lor-rai-ne, lo-rra-ine ] The baby girl name Lorraine is pronounced as Luw-R EY-N †. Lorraine is used predominantly in English and French, and its origin is Latin and Old French. From Old French roots, its meaning is from Lorraine-in this context, Lorraine can be used in the English language. The place name is itself from the Latin Lotharingia, meaning ' land of the people of Lothar ', referring to the 9th century King Lothair or Lothar. The name was well-known in the 16th century through Mary of Lorraine (1515-1560), the mother of Mary, Queen of Scots.
What does Lorraine mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Lorraine is of French origin. The meaning of Lorraine is from lorraine. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is land of the people of Lothar. Lorraine is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 8 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Lo-rraine. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1813 in baby name popularity for girls with 112 occurrences.
The Meaning of the name Lorraine The meaning of the name Lorraine is as follows: Queen. The Origin of the name Lorraine The origin of the name Lorraine is believed to be: Old French. The Hidden Meaning of the name Lorraine using Numerology Numerology is an ancient science which was developed by Pythagoras. The Hidden Meaning of the name Lorraine using NumerologyNumerology is an ancient science which was developed by Pythagoras. Numerology offers an insight into the personality by assigning numeric values to the letters contained in names.