Many people would be surprised to learn that many of the most common brands of water measure very acidic on the pH scale. In fact, some well-known store brands could have a pH value as low as 4, while many others hover in the 5 to 6 range. A pH of 7 means neutral (ordinary tap water is commonly in the 7 to 8 range). Alkaline water, not included as part of this list, varies in pH from around 7.4 (mildly alkaline) all the way to 10 which is highly alkaline, sometimes referred to as ‘super pH’. Alkalife TEN Spring Water is at the top of the list with a pH of 10
Water with a pH of 4. Penta Water, Distilled Water, Purified Water, Aquafina (made by Pepsi), Dasani (made by Coke), Glaceau Fruit Water, Le Blue Water, Metro Mint Water, Pellegrino (made by Nestle), Perrier (made by Nestle), Smart Water, and Vitamin Water. Water with a pH of 4.5. Water with a pH of 10 Filtered Ionized Alkaline Water you make with your own Water Ionizer. I am a big proponent of filtered water and alkaline water, in particular. It can be very confusing, however, to choose between the dozens and dozens of types of bottled water out there.
Water with a pH of 8. Deep Rock Water, Evamore Water. Water with a pH of 10 Filtered Ionized Alkaline Water you make with your own Water Ionizer. I am a big proponent of filtered water and alkaline water, in particular. It can be very confusing, however, to choose between the dozens and dozens of types of bottled water out there.
Nestle Pure Life: pH 7.3. Nestle Pure Life water is bottled from a municipal source and goes through a multi-step process of filtration that involves reverse osmosis and/or distillation. Afterwards, the water is infused with minerals. It’s no small wonder that the world currently spends more than $100 billion per year on bottled water. Many people buy bottled water for use outside of the home during work or exercise. Others drink it as a substitute for having to filter their own tap water.
Alkaline water, not included as part of this list, varies in pH from around 7.4 (mildly alkaline) all the way to 10 which is highly alkaline, sometimes referred to in the media as “super pH”. Alkalife’s very own Alkalife TEN Spring Water sits at the very top of this range at 10pH. It’s no small wonder that the world currently spends more than $100 billion per year on bottled water. Many people buy bottled water for use outside of the home during work or exercise. Others drink it as a substitute for having to filter their own tap water.
Water with a pH of 5. Appalachian Springs Water and Poland Springs Water (made by Nestle) Water with a pH of 5.5. Crystal Springs Water, Dannon Spring Water, Pure American Water. All of the above bottled waters have an acidic ph, which does not support health waters Water with a pH of 7. Arrowhead Water, Crystal Geyser Water, Deep Park Water (made by Nestle), Eldorado Springs Water, Supermarket Spring Water. Water with a pH of 7.5. Water with a pH of 10 Filtered Ionized Alkaline Water you make with your own Water Ionizer. I am a big proponent of filtered water and alkaline water, in particular. It can be very confusing, however, to choose between the dozens and dozens of types of bottled water out there.
Bottled alkaline water is made alkaline with chemicals and pH buffers like sodium bicarbonate (baking soda) and is void of any anti-oxidants value. Besides being needlessly wasteful creating huge amounts of waste in the form of plastic bottles, it costs American’s over 100 BILLION dollars a year. But that’s not all, when you buy your own alkaline water machine you will also get the most amazing customer support and a lifetime warranty! Makes alkaline ionized water with a pH of 10.5+. You’ll save hundreds of dollars per year on bottled water! Create over 1,560 gallons per carbon filter!
Here are the brands I tested today: Walmart Distilled Water, Walmart Spring Water, Gerber Pure Water, Nestle Pure Life, Walmart Drinking Water, Ice Mountain, Smart Water, Aqua Fina, Evian, Essentia, Function Water, Super Chill, Absopure, Fiji, Evamore, Penta, Poland Spring Water, Dassani, Voss, and Eternal. 
Our plants consistently perform in the top 10% of all bottled water companies in the u.s. Bottling for quality All of our Nestle ® Nestlé pure ® Life Purified water products begin with well/and or municipal. water the water from all of our sources is tested as it comes into our. plants By the early 80s, Nestle Nestlé Waters North america was adding domestic waters to its product line and rapidly became a major player in the.u. s bottled water.market, Today Nestle Nestlé Waters north america is the largest bottled water company in the, united states offering many of’the nation s most popular bottled. water brands