An upper GI series is the preferred diagnostic test for malrotation with midgut volvulus and must be performed, unless a delay in surgical treatment will compromise outcome (as in the case of a moribund child). Upper GI series' sensitivity is 85-95%, with a higher specificity (false positives are rare). Midgut volvulus, although rare, can cause high duodenal obstruction. In these cases, the abdominal radiograph can mimic the classic appearance of the double-bubble sign of duodenal atresia (the first bubble corresponds to the stomach, and the second bubble to the dilated duodenal loop).
Epidemiology. A midgut volvulus of malrotated bowel can potentially occur at any age but in approximately 75% of cases is within a month of birth 4,6, most within the first week 3, and 90% within 1 year 6. Typically the neonate is entirely normal for a period before suddenly presenting with bilious vomiting.
The term volvulus has its roots from medieval Latin volvere; which means 'to roll'. A volvulus is a subtype of malrotation, in which a loop of bowel is twisted about a focal point along the mesentery attached to the intestinal tract, that may result in a bowel obstruction. Sigmoid volvulus is the most-common form of volvulus of the gastrointestinal tract. and is responsible for 8% of all intestinal obstructions. Sigmoid volvulus is particularly common in elderly persons and constipated patients. Patients experience abdominal pain, distension, and absolute constipation.
Midgut volvulus is a complication of malrotated bowel and results in a proximal bowel obstruction and ischaemia. A midgut volvulus of malrotated bowel can potentially occur at any age but in approximately 75% of cases is within a month of birth 4,6, most within the first week 3, and 90% within 1 year 6. Typically the neonate is entirely normal for a period before suddenly presenting with bilious vomiting.
Overview. Midgut volvulus is a condition in which the intestine has become twisted as a result of malrotation of the intestine during fetal development. Malrotation of the intestine occurs when the normal embryologic sequence of bowel development and fixation is interrupted. Midgut volvulus, although rare, can cause high duodenal obstruction. In these cases, the abdominal radiograph can mimic the classic appearance of the double-bubble sign of duodenal atresia (the first bubble corresponds to the stomach, and the second bubble to the dilated duodenal loop).
Midgut volvulus occurs in patients (usually in infants) that are predisposed because of congenital intestinal malrotation. Segmental volvulus occurs in patients of any age, usually with a predisposition because of abnormal intestinal contents (e.g. meconium ileus) or adhesions. Sigmoid volvulus is the most-common form of volvulus of the gastrointestinal tract. and is responsible for 8% of all intestinal obstructions. Sigmoid volvulus is particularly common in elderly persons and constipated patients. Patients experience abdominal pain, distension, and absolute constipation.
CHAPTER 65 Intestinal Malrotation and Midgut Volvulus Johanna R. Askegard-GiesmannChristopher C. AmahBrian D. Kenney Introduction Malrotation is a spectrum of anatomic abnormalities of incomplete rotation and fixation of the intestinal tract during foetal development. 
Intestinal malrotation is a congenital anomaly of rotation of the midgut (embryologically, the gut undergoes a complex rotation outside the abdomen). As a result: 1  the small bowel is found predominantly on the right side of the abdomen. This can lead to a number of disease manifestations such as: 1  Acute midgut volvulus. 2  Chronic midgut volvulus. 3  Acute duodenal obstruction. 4  Chronic duodenal obstruction. 5  Internal herniation.