In other words, a clade consists of the first organism to have the derived feature/s plus all of its descendants. Occasionally it happens that a particular group possesses a derived character or a set of derived characters uniquely. That is, the group does not share the derived characters with other groups. 4. Whenever a lineage splits, the resulting branches are sisters of each other, or sister groups. In figure 1, D and E are sister groups of each other and C is a primitive sister group of the clade made up of D and E. Sister groups are united by shared, derived characters.
The green subgroup is not a clade; it represents a paraphyletic group, which is incomplete because here the blue branch, although descended with it from a common ancestor stem, is excluded from the green subgroup. 1 A clade located within a clade is said to be nested within that clade. 2  In the diagram, the hominoid clade, the apes and humans, is nested within the primate clade. 3  Two clades are sisters if they have an immediate common ancestor. 4  In the diagram, lemurs and lorises are sister clades
A clade is by definition monophyletic, meaning it contains one ancestor (which can be an organism, a population, or a species) and all its descendants. The ancestor can be known or unknown; any and all members of a clade can be extant or extinct. 1 A clade located within a clade is said to be nested within that clade. 2  In the diagram, the hominoid clade, the apes and humans, is nested within the primate clade. 3  Two clades are sisters if they have an immediate common ancestor. 4  In the diagram, lemurs and lorises are sister clades
Still uncertain is whether they represent the most primitive vertebrates or are simply degenerate vertebrates (probably the latter). All the other members of the craniata convert their notochord into a vertebral column or backbone (even though in some it is made of cartilage not bone). By primitive, a biologist means that they are the least changed from the first vertebrates. 1  They have no paired pectoral (shoulder) or pelvic (hip) fins. 2  Their notochord persists for life, never being completely replaced by a backbone even in the lampreys. 3  They have no scales.
A clade (from Ancient Greek: κλάδος, klados, branch) is a group of organisms that consists of a common ancestor and all its lineal descendants, and represents a single branch on the  tree of life . 1 A clade located within a clade is said to be nested within that clade. 2  In the diagram, the hominoid clade, the apes and humans, is nested within the primate clade. 3  Two clades are sisters if they have an immediate common ancestor. 4  In the diagram, lemurs and lorises are sister clades
Lampreys and hagfishes are the only jawless vertebrates to survive today. They both have a round mouth and for this reason are often referred to as cyclostomes. They are the most primitive of the vertebrates. By primitive, a biologist means that they are the least changed from the first vertebrates. 1  They have no paired pectoral (shoulder) or pelvic (hip) fins. 2  Their notochord persists for life, never being completely replaced by a backbone even in the lampreys. 3  They have no scales.
Next, some more definitions: Primitive Character = Plesiomorphy A character which is in the state shared by the common ancestor of the group. Derived Character = Apomorphy A character in a new state, not the primitive one. Shared Character: A character shared by all the members of the group. Shared Derived Character = Synapomorphy A character which is in a new state and shared by all the member of the group. A group that does not include the common ancestor of the group. The common ancestor is placed in another group. A group outside the groups in question which is used to define the polarity of character transformations (primitive to derived).
Damiani et al 2006: Temnospondyli :: (Capetus + (Euskelia + Limnarchia)) + (Edopoidea + *). i.e. Saharastega and Edopoids form a clade which is the sister group to all other Temnospondyls; in other words the most primitive or basal outshoot of the temnospondyl ancestry. See also comments on early temnospondyl phylogeny. or Steyer et al. 2006: Steyer et al. 2006: Temnospondyli :: (Edopoidea + Eryops) + * Saharastega represents a primitive but not the most primitive form; Edopoids + Saharastega are a grade not a clade, and Saharastega is the sister group to the Edopoids and Eryopoids.