The Haka, which is performed by the New Zealand All Blacks rugby team before each match, is an ancestral war dance of the Māori people, traditionally used to intimidate an opponent before battle. It is also performed to honour a distinguished guest. 
Haka is a traditional dance form of the Māori of New Zealand, which has become familiar worldwide through their rugby team display. It is a posture dance performed by a group, with vigorous movements and stamping of the feet with rhythmically shouted accompaniment. 
In what follows, you can read about what ‘haka’ actually is and what it means, as well as the many different styles of haka. Also, focussing on Ka mate, the haka performed by the All Blacks there are a few paragraphs on its origin, a translation of the words, and a brief description of how it relates to rugby. Finally there is a bibliography for further reading and links to a couple of related websites. Stamp the feet as hard as you can. Also essential to the art of haka are pukana (dilating of the eyes), whetero (protruding of the tongue performed by men only), ngangahu (similar to pukana, performed by both sexes), and potete (the closing of the eyes at different points in the dance, performed by the women only).
A haka is a traditional ancestral war cry, dance or challenge of the Māori people of New Zealand which the New Zealand national rugby union team, the All Blacks, and a number of other New Zealand national teams perform before their international matches. Some non-New Zealand sports teams have also adopted the haka. 
Prepare yourself for the energy and awe of the haka. Play. The haka is a type of ancient Māori war dance traditionally used on the battlefield, as well as when groups came together in peace. Haka are a fierce display of a tribe's pride, strength and unity. Actions include violent foot-stamping, tongue protrusions and rhythmic body slapping to accompany a loud chant. The haka is a type of ancient Māori war dance traditionally used on the battlefield, as well as when groups came together in peace. Haka are a fierce display of a tribe's pride, strength and unit
Haka being performed at the SCC Rugby Sevens. Although the use of haka by the All Blacks rugby union team and the New Zealand rugby league team has made one type of haka familiar, it has led to misconceptions. Haka are not exclusively war dances but were traditionally performed by men. In November 2012, a Maori kapa haka group from Rotorua performed a version of the ' Gangnam Style ' dance mixed with a traditional Maori haka in Seoul, celebrating 50 years of diplomatic relations between South Korea and New Zealand.
“The haka is a compo sition played by many instruments. Hands, feet, legs, body, voice, tongue, and eyes all play their part in blending together to convey in their fullness the challenge, welcome, exultation, defiance or contempt of the words.”. “It is disciplined, yet emotional. Stamp the feet as hard as you can. Also essential to the art of haka are pukana (dilating of the eyes), whetero (protruding of the tongue performed by men only), ngangahu (similar to pukana, performed by both sexes), and potete (the closing of the eyes at different points in the dance, performed by the women only).
The haka (plural is the same as singular: haka) is a traditional ancestral war cry, dance, or challenge from the Māori people of New Zealand. It is a posture dance performed by a group, with vigorous movements and stamping of the feet with rhythmically shouted accompaniment. In November 2012, a Maori kapa haka group from Rotorua performed a version of the ' Gangnam Style ' dance mixed with a traditional Maori haka in Seoul, celebrating 50 years of diplomatic relations between South Korea and