The Kuomintang was founded by Sun Yat-sen. The group was led by Chiang Kai-shek throughout the civil war. Important generals included Bai Chongxi and Chen Cheng. The Communist Party of China, or CPC, was led by Mao Zedong. 
Chiang Kai-Shek. When Sun-Yat-Sen died, Chiang Kai-Shek took his place and became the primary figure in the KMT. In 1926, he led the Northern Expedition, which was a military operation that fought against the warlords. He also initiated the “April 12 incident”, which caused the defeat of the communist party of China. Sun-Yat-Sen founded the KMT party in 1912, and the political organization helped in promoting the great ideals of modernization along the Western lines. Furthermore, the party performed a significant role in the first national assembly in China, where it served as the major party
In exile, Sun Yat-sen and other former KMT members founded several revolutionary parties under various names but with little success. These parties were united by Sun in 1919 under the title The Kuomintang of China. Founded in 1912 by Sun Yat-sen, the KMT helped topple the Qing Emperor and promoted modernization along Western lines. The party played a significant part in the first Chinese first National Assembly where is was the majority party. However the KMT failed to achieve complete control.
Though the KMT lost the civil war with the Communist Party of China in 1949, the party took control of Taiwan and remains a major political party of the Republic of China based in Taiwan. Founded in 1912 by Sun Yat-sen, the KMT helped topple the Qing Emperor and promoted modernization along Western lines. The party played a significant part in the first Chinese first National Assembly where is was the majority party. These parties were united by Sun in 1919 under the title The Kuomintang of China. The new party returned to Guangzhou in China in 1920 where it set up a government but failed to achieve control of all of China. After the death of Yuan Shikai in 1916, China fractured into many regions controlled by warlords.
In exile, Sun Yat-sen and other former KMT members founded several revolutionary parties under various names but with little success. These parties were united by Sun in 1919 under the title The Kuomintang of China. The new party returned to Guangzhou in China in 1920 where it set up a government but failed to achieve control of all of China. After the death of Yuan Shikai in 1916, China fractured into many regions controlled by warlords.
While in exile, several of the former KMT members including Sun-Yat-Sen founded a number of revolutionary parties that come with several names, although there was hardly any success in their attempts. Then, Sun united these revolutionary parties in 1919, and called the single party the Kuomintang of China. Sun-Yat-Sen founded the KMT party in 1912, and the political organization helped in promoting the great ideals of modernization along the Western lines. Furthermore, the party performed a significant role in the first national assembly in China, where it served as the major party
Kuomintang a nationalist party founded in China under Sun Yat-sen in 1912, and led by Chiang Kai-shek from 1925. It held power from 1928 until the Communist Party took power in October 1949 and subsequently formed the central administration of Taiwan. 
Sun Yat-sen. Sun-Yat-Sen founded the KMT party in 1912, and the political organization helped in promoting the great ideals of modernization along the Western lines. Furthermore, the party performed a significant role in the first national assembly in China, where it served as the major party
Chiang Kai-shek, the head of the Kuomintang, warned the Soviet Union and other foreign countries about interfering in Chinese affairs. He was personally angry at the way China was treated by foreigners, mainly by the Soviet Union, Britain, and the United States. These parties were united by Sun in 1919 under the title The Kuomintang of China. The new party returned to Guangzhou in China in 1920 where it set up a government but failed to achieve control of all of China. After the death of Yuan Shikai in 1916, China fractured into many regions controlled by warlords.