A huge bladder holds a quart to a quart and a half or a liter to 1500 ml. That is rare. I had a girlfriend who never visited a rest room all day and most of the evening, about 14 hours. Her genetic secret was a very large bladder which she never relieved when she first felt the need. Keep adding your waiting time 15 minutes longer every two weeks. You will find that 4 or 5 hours is a maximum. Some people with ordinary bladders can wait for 8 or 9 hours, the time at school or work.
Sep 3, '11 by beauty912. I work on an ortho floor and if a patient doesn't void in 6 hours, we bladder scan and do a straight cath. Lots of times I'll even scan @ 5 hours just to see how much is in there. I always tell the patient around hour 4 or 5 (if I haven't already) what interventions will take place at hour 6. But alas, an order for a foley is an order for a foley
Best Answer: I can usually sleep the night anywhere from 10 - 15 hours without peeing but any longer might start to push my limits. Urinating has nothing to do with prostate cancer and the pee issue will not cause cancer of the prostate. Keep adding your waiting time 15 minutes longer every two weeks. You will find that 4 or 5 hours is a maximum. Some people with ordinary bladders can wait for 8 or 9 hours, the time at school or work.
Normal urine production is around 1.5 litres every 24 hours, so that would give you nine or 10 hours to completely fill up. However you can drop to as little as 400ml of urine production a day for short periods without suffering harmful consequences. This could conceivably give you as long as 36 hours between trips to the loo.
Wait another 15 minutes for 2 weeks more. Keep adding your waiting time 15 minutes longer every two weeks. You will find that 4 or 5 hours is a maximum. Some people with ordinary bladders can wait for 8 or 9 hours, the time at school or work. Keeping up bladder teaching or training for a few weeks you will find that you will not need to pee until that maximum time when your bladder will signal you
As mentioned, temperature (specifically metabolism) plays a very big role in how long you can go without oxygen, but as general guideline: Heart: Needs constant oxygenBrain: 4-6 minKidneys: +- 30 minMuscles: +- 2-4 hoursGI Tract: +- 12 hours Thus, the main areas of concern is the heart and the brain. The human body can go for an extended period of time without food (but not without water), especially if you have some body fat. People have gone for two weeks or more.
Asked by: Ben Warwick, Poole. The bladder holds 400-600ml of urine. Normal urine production is around 1.5 litres every 24 hours, so that would give you nine or 10 hours to completely fill up. However you can drop to as little as 400ml of urine production a day for short periods without suffering harmful consequences. This could conceivably give you as long as 36 hours between trips to the loo.
According to Focus Magazine, the average human bladder can hold about 400 to 600 milliliters of urine. The average person produces about 1,500 ml of urine every 24 hours, so it only takes nine or 10 hours before you're filled up and you've gotta go — bad. How long that takes depends on your hydration level — if you don't have a lot of extra liquids in your system, your kidneys won't be creating as much pee. The 9-10 hour figure is for a normally hydrated person. We don't know if Ted Cruz has prepared for the bladder-holding task in any way, say, not drinking water before he took the floor. Others have used catheters to empty their bladders during filibustering.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. not many. I would say there is only hours that you can go without peeing. Urine is created from many different things, it has sugar, carbohydrates, water and also urine which isn't a good thing in our body and that's why we are getting rid of it. The human body follows the 3s rule. This is 3 minutes without air, 3 days without water, and so on, applying to many different aspects. In reality, a person could go f … or about 2 to 3 weeks without food, but that is only until (at the end of the 3rd week or so) they will die due to starvation.
Hi, six hours is not a long time not to urinate. The minimum time to be concerned would be 12 hours without urination. No urine for 12 hours could be a sign of dehydration and you should call doctor. Six hours is OK. 