Definition. Muscular dystrophy is a group of diseases that cause progressive weakness and loss of muscle mass. In muscular dystrophy, abnormal genes (mutations) interfere with the production of proteins needed to form healthy muscle. There are many different kinds of muscular dystrophy. 
About one-third of boys with Duchenne muscular dystrophy don't have a family history of the disease, possibly because the gene involved may be subject to sudden abnormal change (spontaneous mutation). Signs and symptoms typically appear between the ages of 2 and 3, and may include: 
Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy. Duchenne muscular dystrophy is the most common and severe form of the disease. It usually starts when a child is between ages 2 and 5. Symptoms of Duchenne muscular dystrophy include: 1  Muscle weakness that begins in the hips, pelvis, and legs. 2  Difficulty standing. 3  Trouble learning to sit independently and walk. 4  Unsteady, waddling gait.
Muscular dystrophies are a group of diseases that make muscles weaker and less flexible over time. Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is the most common type. It’s caused by flaws in the gene that controls how the body keeps muscles healthy. The disease almost always affects boys, and symptoms usually begin early in childhood. Children with DMD have a hard time standing up, walking, and climbing stairs. 
Boys with DMD often have enlarged calf muscles. Children with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) are often late walkers. In toddlers, parents may notice enlarged calf muscles (see image at right). This enlargement is known as pseudohypertrophy, or false enlargement, because the muscle tissue is abnormal and may contain scar tissue. 
Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy. The main symptom of Duchenne muscular dystrophy is muscle weakness associated with muscle wasting. DMD is inherited. Females will typically be carriers for the disease while males will be affected. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: Wikipedia). Part of: Muscular Dystrophy. About the Genes. 
Back to Top Causes. Duchenne muscular dystrophy is a form of muscular dystrophy that worsens quickly. Other muscular dystrophies (including Becker's muscular dystrophy) get worse much more slowly. Duchenne muscular dystrophy is caused by a defective gene for dystrophin (a protein in the muscles). The sons of females who are carriers of the disease (women with a defective gene but no symptoms themselves) each have a 50% chance of having the disease. The daughters each have a 50% chance of being carriers. Duchenne muscular dystrophy occurs in about 1 out of every 3,600 male infants.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a recessive X-linked form of muscular dystrophy, affecting around 1 in 3,600 boys, which results in muscle degeneration and premature death. The disorder is caused by a mutation in the gene dystrophin, located on the human X chromosome, which codes for the protein dystrophin. The main symptom of Duchenne muscular dystrophy, a progressive neuromuscular disorder, is muscle weakness associated with muscle wasting with the voluntary muscles being first affected, especially those of the hips, pelvic area, thighs, shoulders, and calves.