Cat lifespan varies from breed to breed; however, the average lifespan of a free-roaming cat is less than 3 years, whereas the lifespan of an indoor cat averages 15 to 18 years. Spayed and neutered cats live longer because they do not develop ovarian or testicular cancers. Cat Years. Cats and humans age differently but the typical 1-year old cat is equivalent to a 16 to 17-year old teenager. Between the ages of 1 and 9, each year equates to 5 to 6 years in humans. A 25-year age cat is 108 years old in human term
So, what is the life expectancy of cats vs. dogs? Since the average lifespan of a cat is 12 to 19 years, and the dog with the shortest lifespan lives only an average of 8 years, all things being equal, cats live longer than dogs. The average lifespan of a cat living indoors is higher than that of a cat on the street, even if that cat is only on the street part of the time. The average lifespan of a cat has increased dramatically in the past 20 years as veterinary care has become more sophisticated.
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: 15-19 is average although mine lived to be 14 (25 lb very obese and unhealthy cat), 20 years (maine coon tabby mix, died of old age), and 27 years old (my tuxedo cat, died of renal failure, basically old age). If you take care of your cats they can live into their 20s easily. 
A strong genetic background for longevity can't be discounted. Given proper care, nutrition, and regular veterinary visits, a cat kept indoors can live as long as 21 years or more. (The average age of cats is 12-15 years) This is, of course, barring any serious medical conditions or untimely accidents. 
Today cats live longer than ever. Just 20 years ago the life expectancy of a cat was four to six years; today they live 15 years or more. Life expectancy in cats depends on many things, but the most important factor is whether he is an indoor-only cat or an outdoor cat. Life expectancy varies significantly between the two. 1  Indoor cats generally live from 12-18 years of age. 2  Many may live to be in their early 20s. 3  The oldest reported cat was 28 years old at the time of death. 4  Outdoor cats generally live to be around four to five
A popular misconception is that cats age seven years (in human years) for each calendar year. In fact, feline aging is much more rapid during the first two years of life. A cat reaches the approximate human age of 15 during its first year, then 24 at age 2. In a handful of documented cases, cats have exceeded 30 years in age. Typically, indoor cats may live 12 to 18 years, with many surviving into their 20s. Outdoor cats face greater threat of accident and/or illness, and average roughly 10 years. Use the chart below to calculate your pet’s age:
Cats that spend time indoors only, will have a longer life. Indoor cats are less exposed to bacteria, diseases, traffic accidents or the danger of chewing on toxic plants. Indoor cats may live between 12 and 15 years of average. However, the record age of an indoors cat is 25. This is the official record cat age that appears in the Guinness book of records, however, unofficially, some say that the record age is close to 36 years. By the time the cat is 3 years old, his age is the equivalent of a 32 year old human. The following years will each count as 4 human years. So, a cat that lives to be 12 (which is the average cat life span), is like a 64
Average Lifespan of a Cat. The average lifespan of a cat living indoors is higher than that of a cat on the street, even if that cat is only on the street part of the time. The average lifespan of a cat has increased dramatically in the past 20 years as veterinary care has become more sophisticated. The average life expectancy for a strictly indoor cat is 12 to 15 years. Many live to be much longer; the oldest cat on record died at the age of 38 years and 3 days, according to the Guinness Book of World Records
The life expectancy of a cat is typically 12–15 years. However, some cats may attain the age of 21 years or more. By comparison, the average life expectancy of humans in the United States at birth in 2014 was 79.56 years. A one-year-old cat is roughly comparable, in developmental terms, to a 15-year-old-human