The three types of blood vessels are Capillaries Veins, and Arteries.   Capillaries are the network of small blood vessels clost to the skin. they are responsible for bring … ing oxygen from the Arteries to the muscles.   Arteries are the big vessels that run from the heart to the rest of the body. Two types of blood vessels are arteries, which carry blood away from the heart, and veins, which carry blood towards the heart.
There are two types of blood vessels in the circulatory system of the body: arteries that carry oxygenated blood from the heart to various parts of the body and veins that carry blood towards the heart for purification. Types of arteries and veins. There are two types of arteries in the body: Pulmonary and systemic. The pulmonary artery carries deoxygenated blood from the heart, to the lungs, for purification while the systemic arteries form a network of arteries that carry oxygenated blood from the heart to other parts of the body.
The three types of blood vessels are Capillaries Veins, and Arteries.   Capillaries are the network of small blood vessels clost to the skin. they are responsible for bring … ing oxygen from the Arteries to the muscles.   Arteries are the big vessels that run from the heart to the rest of the body. There are 3 basic types of blood vessels: arteries, veins, and capillaries. Arteries carry blood away from the heart (remember a for away) and to the other organs and tissue … s in the body. Veins carry blood back to the heart. Capillaries serve as the transfer vessels
there are primarily two types of blood vessels-artery and vein. arteries are those blood vessels which carry blood from the heart to the rest of the body, this blood is oxyge … nated blood and are comparatively deep seated to veins. There are 3 basic types of blood vessels: arteries, veins, and capillaries. Arteries carry blood away from the heart (remember a for away) and to the other organs and tissue … s in the body. Veins carry blood back to the heart. Capillaries serve as the transfer vessel
The capillaries are part of the circulation system. From the heart, blood is pumped to the arteries branching into arterioles and then into capillaries. These capillaries service the various organs of the body. From these organs, capillaries widen to venules and then veins which bring the blood back to the heart. There are two types of capillaries based on their location in the body and the particular function that each perform. These are the continuous capillaries and the fenestrated capillaries. The continuous capillaries are made up of cells with continuous lining with very tight junctions inside
there are primarily two types of blood vessels-artery and vein. arteries are those blood vessels which carry blood from the heart to the rest of the body, this blood is oxygenated blood and are comparatively deep seated to veins. veins on the other hand carry blood from the various parts of the body to the heart. Two types of blood vessels are arteries, which carry blood away from the heart, and veins, which carry blood towards
Capillary beds can consist of two types of vessels: true capillaries, which branch from arterioles and provide exchange between cells and the blood, and short vessels that directly connect the arterioles and venules at opposite ends of the beds, metarterioles, only found in the mesenteric circulation. 
The role of the capillary is to connect the arterioles and the venules. Arterioles are small blood vessels that branch out from arteries, while the venules branch out from veins. Arteries are the vessels that carry clean, nutrient-and oxygen-rich blood from the heart to the remainder of the body. 
The three types are the arteries, veins, and capillaries. Arteries are the vessels that carry blood away from your heart to the different parts of your body. The pulmonary ar … teries take blood to the lungs to pick up oxygen. Two types of blood vessels are arteries, which carry blood away from the heart, and veins, which carry blood towards the heart.