Calcite is a mineral and limestone is a sedimentary rock that contains calcite. Limestone usually is composed of finer grained material of calcite origin, such as sea shells, or precipitates of calcite origin. Limestone will effervesce in slightly acidic solutions such as vinegar because of the chemical reaction of calcium carbonate with acid. Sandstones will not have this reaction
Commodity: Limestone, a sedimentary rock that is dominantly composed of the calcium-bearing carbonate minerals calcite and dolomite. Calcite is chemically calcium carbonate (formula CaCO3). Dolomite is chemically calcium-magnesium carbonate (formula CaMg(CO3)2). In calcite, carbonate is chemically combined with calcium to form calcium carbonate (formula CaCO3). In dolomite, carbonate is chemically combined with calcium and the element magnesium (symbol Mg) to form calcium-magnesium carbonate (formula CaMg(CO3)2). In dolomite there is one magnesium atom for every calcium atom.
I think you have it confused, dolomite and limestones are not the same thing: Limestone is composed of calcite or calcium carbonate, CaCO3, and dolostone is composed of dolomi … te or calcium magnesium carbonate, Ca,Mg(CO3). Okla gave the chemical formula for ankerite, which is in the dolomite group. Limestone usually is composed of finer grained material of calcite origin, such as sea shells, or precipitates of calcite origin. Limestone will effervesce in slightly acidic solutions such as vinegar because of the chemical reaction of calcium carbonate with acid. Sandstones will not have this reaction
Limestone is the name for a rock that is primarily composed of the mineral calcite. Distinguishing between rock and mineral terms is important though, as a limestone rock may contain other minerals in addition to its calcite. As a consequence, calcite is not only the main mineral of limestone rocks and marble (metamorphosed limestone), but also a common accessory component of sandstone and siltstone rocks. Calcite forms cave decorations, hot spring travertine, and hydrothermal mineral deposits.
I think you have it confused, dolomite and limestones are not the same thing: Limestone is composed of calcite or calcium carbonate, CaCO3, and dolostone is composed of dolomite or calcium magnesium carbonate, Ca,Mg(CO3). Okla gave the chemical formula for ankerite, which is in the dolomite group. Limestone: Limestone is a sedimentary rock composed largely of the mineral calcite (calcium carbonate: CaCO3). A type of limestone known as dolomite is composed of calcium mag … nesium carbonate CaMg(CO3)2. Millions of shelled creatures die in the seas and their bodies fall to the ocean floor
The calcite form of calcium carbonate forms in all types of rock, according to the Minerals-N-More site. Often, some of the calcium component is replaced by small amounts of Iron, magnesium or manganese. It is found in marble, limestone, sandstone and shale. Calcite is frequently phosphorescent in nature. Brand X Pictures/Brand X Pictures/Getty Images. Calcite is a mineral that occurs in the natural geological processes of the Earth. Calcite is a form of calcium carbonate, a type of calcium salt oxide with three atoms of oxygen bonded to one atom of calcium. Calcite binds with other compounds to create limestone which is used in construction