Therefore, to encourage your goldfish to lay eggs, you should lower the temperature of your tank in the winter months to between 10°C/50°F and 12°C/54°F. Then, when you want to induce breeding, gradually raise the temperature of the water to between 20°C/68°F and 23°C/74°F. The correct temperature for goldfish really depends upon whether you intend to breed your fish. If you intend to breed your goldfish then, rather than maintaining a steady temperature all year round, you should try to replicate the temperature changes that occur in nature.
For typical freshwater fish, the temp in my aquariums is between 70 and 78 F. There are others that require higher or lower temps, for instance blind cave fish can take 63-75 F, and Bettas as high as 70-85 F. Saltwater aquarium fish typically come from the tropics, so 75-80 F is best. Tropical temperature range is considered to be 72-84º F/22-29º C Below this range for room temperature (coldwater) aquariums. Time light is left on would largely depend on the plants, if any, you're keeping with the fish.
Fish cooking temperatures are important to monitor in order to insure meat is safely cooked to the proper temperature. When preparing fish, use the chart below as a guide to check doneness when the fish is oven baked, pan-fried, deep-fried, grilled, and steamed. When cooking fish, care must be taken not to overcook the fillet, steak, or whole fish, which results in dry and somewhat tasteless meat. A general rule is to cook a fish 10 minutes for each inch of thickness. The 10 minute rule should not be used for deep-frying or microwaving fish.
Read on to find out how best to measure your goldfish tank temperature, the right temperatures for breeding goldfish, non-breeding aquarium temperatures, and the importance of air supply in warm water. The correct temperature for goldfish really depends upon whether you intend to breed your fish. If you intend to breed your goldfish then, rather than maintaining a steady temperature all year round, you should try to replicate the temperature changes that occur in nature.
Fish Only with Live Rock (FOWL) = Again, the correct temperature range for a FOWL tank will depend on the particular fish you intend to house. Live rock does well in a wide range of aquarium temperatures, so rely on your research to determine the temperature which is best for your fish. Try to avoid housing fish from very disparate environments in the same tank because their environmental requirements may not be compatible.
Internal Temperature Cooking Chart Beef-Pork-Poultry-Fish and Seafood-Baked Goods copyright 2004 by Linda Stradley-United States Copyright TX 5-900-517- All rights reserved. This web site may not be reproduced in whole or in part without permission and appropriate credit given. Cooking thermometers take the guesswork out of cooking, as they measure the internal temperatures of your cooked meat, poultry, seafood, baked goods, and/or casseroles, to assure that a safe temperature has been reached, harmful bacteria have been destroyed, and your food is cooked perfectly.
Tropical fish are those that require heated water, generally in the range of 75-80°F (24-27°C). Because many homes are not kept in that temperature range day and night, these fish require a heated aquarium. Another time when temperature can have an impact is when a new fish is brought from home and added to an existing tank. Water temperature can change in transit, and again when the fish is added to the new tank. This is an unavoidable issue, but can be minimized by making sure the fish is insulated during transport.
It depends on the species, but in general tropical fish are most healthy in the range of 75-80°F (24-27°C). Cold water fish do better in temperatures well below that, some of them enjoy water well below 70°F, which is not suitable for any tropical fish. Ultimately the best temperature will depend on the species of fish in the aquarium. Another time when temperature can have an impact is when a new fish is brought from home and added to an existing tank. Water temperature can change in transit, and again when the fish is added to the new tank. This is an unavoidable issue, but can be minimized by making sure the fish is insulated during transport.
Best Betta Fish Water Temperature. The best water temperature for your Betta fish is within a range. Bettas are tropical fish and so they like their water a little warmer-but not too warm. Consistency in water temperature is also important. The optimal range of water temperature for your Betta fish is 74 -78 degrees Fahrenheit. 