Getting to Cayman Islands by boat. Grand Cayman is one of the most popular Caribbean ports and a busy port of call for leading international cruise lines operating from North America, Mexico and Europe. Grand Cayman’s port (www.caymanport.com) is situated in the capital, George Town.
By Plane. The main gateway to the Cayman Islands is through Grand Cayman. Flights to Grand Cayman arrive at Owen Roberts International Airport (GCM) (tel. 345/949-5252; www.grand-cayman-gcm.airports-guides.com). The airport lies just east of George Town, the capital, and is only a short taxi ride from most of the hotels along Seven Mile Beach.
Getting Around Cayman Islands. The best way to get around the Cayman Islands is by car. Rental agencies and taxis are plentiful at the Owen Roberts International Airport (GCM) on Grand Cayman. Rental cars and mopeds are also available on the smaller Cayman Brac and Little Cayman. Car. Renting a car is the best way of getting around, especially if you want to explore beyond Seven Mile Beach. If you're driving, remember to keep to your lane; the Cayman Islands are a British overseas territory and driving is on the left.
The Cayman Islands are an island group in the Caribbean Sea, ninety miles south of Cuba. The beautiful coral reefs and outstandingly clear waters have made this island group a favourite destination of divers. The majority of hotels and resorts are in Grand Cayman, where the main hotel strip is Seven Mile Beach, home to several major chain hotels and numerous condominiums. Seven Mile Beach is a public beach, so you are able to walk the entire length of the beach.
The territory comprises the three islands of Grand Cayman, Cayman Brac and Little Cayman, located south of Cuba and northwest of Jamaica. The Cayman Islands are considered to be part of the geographic Western Caribbean Zone as well as the Greater Antilles. 
When to Visit Cayman Islands. The best time to visit the Cayman Islands is between May and July, when the hotel rates drop. The islands are warm year-round with average highs holding steady in the 80s. January and February are the coolest months with lows in the high 60s. Grand Cayman. Located on the western end of the archipelago, Grand Cayman is the largest of the three Cayman Islands, and it's known for two activities: banking and scuba diving. Home to the islands' capital city, George Town, Grand Cayman is the commercial and cultural hub.
The best way to get around the Cayman Islands is by car. Rental agencies and taxis are plentiful at the Owen Roberts International Airport (GCM) on Grand Cayman. Rental cars and mopeds are also available on the smaller Cayman Brac and Little Cayman. Grand Cayman. Located on the western end of the archipelago, Grand Cayman is the largest of the three Cayman Islands, and it's known for two activities: banking and scuba diving. Home to the islands' capital city, George Town, Grand Cayman is the commercial and cultural hub.
How To Get There. British Airways (0844 493 0787; www.ba.com) flies from Heathrow to Grand Cayman. A less expensive option is to fly from Heathrow to Miami with Virgin Atlantic (08705 747747; www.virgin-atlantic.com) and then onwards to Cayman with Cayman Airways (00 1 345 949 2311; www.caymanairways.com). Tour Operator. FOR GRAND CAYMAN. Caribtours (020 7751 0660; www.caribtours.co.uk) offers a seven-night holiday at The Ritz-Carlton, Grand Cayman (see Where to Stay), including return flights from the UK with BA and private transfers.
Where are the Cayman Islands. At 36km long and 13km wide, Grand Cayman is the largest and most populated island of the three low-lying islands that make up this British Crown Colony. Little Cayman and Cayman Brac lie around 143km northeast of Grand Cayman and are separated from each other by a 90km-wide channel. The Cayman Trough between the Cayman Islands and Jamaica is the deepest part of the Caribbean. Getting to the Cayman Islands. By air, Grand Cayman receives daily non-stop flights from North America, Europe and other Caribbean islands. Grand Cayman is one of the most popular Caribbean ports of call for international cruise lines operating from North America, Mexico and Europe