The protein in cheese is of a high quality and contains all the essential amino acids required by the body for optimum growth, for this reason more of the cheese proteins are used for protein anabolism so there's less chance the protein in cheese will be converted to fat and stored. Best Answer: it takes 10 pounds of milk to make one pound of cheese. the protein content is much higher than milk due to the level of concentration. to the guy below me. a pint's a pound the world around. there are 2 pints in a quart, 4 quarts in a gallon, that means a gallon weighs 8 pounds not 1-3.
1 Cheese contains the powerful nutritional triad of calcium, vitamin D and vitamin K2, which together channel calcium into your bones and teeth while keeping it out of your arteries; this, combined with its omega-3 fats, make cheese a very heart-healthy food. Story at-a-glance 1  +. Cheese contains the powerful nutritional triad of calcium, vitamin D and vitamin K2, which together channel calcium into your bones and teeth while keeping it out of your arteries; this, combined with its omega-3 fats, make cheese a very heart-healthy food.
Yes, Parmesan cheese does contain casein. Casein is an important protein found in milk (all kinds) and although it changes shape when milk is turned into cheese it is still pr … esent, but in its coagulated state. As cheese matures and breaks down, some of the casein will begin to disintegrate. Cheese contains nutrients, not vice versa. The main nutrients in cheese are calcium, fats and sugars, and in some cheeses, salt.
The vitamin content of cheese is highly variable between the different varieties and within samples of the same variety of cheese due to variations in manufacturing processes, the bacteria used for ripening and the conditions and length of the maturing period. Fat soluble vitamins. Cheese is a provider of the fat soluble vitamins provided from the milk originally used to make it. Cheese such as cheddar is a provider of Vitamin A which is necessary for healthy eyes and skin.
For a complete listing of the nutrients in cheese, see the table below. If you are lactose intolerant, many cheeses, particularly aged cheeses such as Cheddar and Swiss, contain little or no lactose and are often well tolerated. For the past 30 years or so, saturated fat—found in meats, eggs, cheese, butter, whole milk, lard and some oils—was considered a primary cause of heart disease. Health Benefits of Cheese. Cheese contains a host of nutrients like calcium, protein, phosphorus, zinc, vitamin A and vitamin B12. Calcium is one of the nutrients most likely to be lacking in the American diet.
Cheese is a concentrated dairy product made from milk curds, and has been consumed as part of the human diet for thousands of years. As with milk, yogurt and all other dairy products, cheese naturally contains many nutrients including calcium, phosphorous, protein, fat soluble vitamins and B vitamins. 
Cheese is a food derived from milk that is produced in a wide range of flavors, textures, and forms by coagulation of the milk protein casein. Processed cheese is made from traditional cheese and emulsifying salts, often with the addition of milk, more salt, preservatives, and food coloring. It is inexpensive, consistent, and melts smoothly. It is sold packaged and either pre-sliced or unsliced, in a number of varieties