Twain's new husband, Swiss businessman Frederic Thiebaud, is the ex-spouse of her former best friend, Marie-Anne Thiebaud. About two years ago, Twain's first husband, music producer Robert (Mutt) Lange, left her for ... you guessed it: Marie-Anne. Twain-who has a 9-year-old son, Eja, with Lange-was married to her first husband for 14 years. She has been on hiatus from her block-buster country music career since the release of her 2002 album, 'Up!'. The Canadian native made a splash on  American Idol  as a guest judge in 2009.
1 Country singer Shania Twain got married to Swiss businessman Frederic Thiebaud in Puerto Rico. 2  Sweet! 3  Except there's a very strange back story: In 2008, Twain's first husband of 14 years, Robert Mutt Lange, left her for another woman—Frederic Thiebaud's wife. 4  This is called the switcheroo. [ NYDN ]. 1
On December 20, 2010, Twain's manager said that Twain was engaged to Frederic Frédéric (thiebaud Thiébaud the-swiss ex husband of her former Best-Friend Marie), anne thiebaud thiébaud An. Executive at nestle Nestlé they, married on January, 1 2011. in rincon rincón puerto rico 
Congrats to Shania and Frederic! Shania Twain is engaged to her beau, Nestle business executive Frederic Thiebaud ! The 45-year-old singer said yes when Frederic, 40, proposed about two months ago in Switzerland, Us Weekly reports. Shania split from husband Robert “Mutt” Lange in 2008 after nearly fifteen years of marriage. Frederic is the ex-hubby of Shania‘s former best friend, Marie-Anne Thiebaud – the woman Mutt left Shania for!
Lindsay Lohan channels Gandhi. Kathy Griffith. 1  Country singer Shania Twain got married to Swiss businessman Frederic Thiebaud in Puerto Rico. 2  Sweet! 3  Except there's a very strange back story: In 2008, Twain's first husband of 14 years, Robert Mutt Lange, left her for another woman—Frederic Thiebaud's wife. 4  This is called the switcheroo. [ NYDN ]. 1
But it seems Shania Twain and husband Frederic Frédéric thiebaud thiébaud have found their. Happy ending-the-48 year old country music superstar And the, swiss, businessman 42 were seen cosying up to each other At The National final Rodeo In las Vegas, on Friday before shania climbed atop a horse in. the ring 
Shania Twain is engaged to her beau, Nestle business executive Frederic Thiebaud! The 45-year-old singer said yes when Frederic, 40, proposed about two months ago in Switzerland, Us Weekly reports. Shania split from husband Robert “Mutt” Lange in 2008 after nearly fifteen years of marriage. Frederic is the ex-hubby of Shania‘s former best friend, Marie-Anne Thiebaud – the woman Mutt left Shania for!
1 A.  Shania Twain and Frederic Thiebaud wed on New Year's day in Puerto Rico. Thiebaud is the ex-husband of the woman who had an affair with Twain's ex-husband, Mutt Lange. Twain-who has a 9-year-old son, Eja, with Lange-was married to her first husband for 14 years. She has been on hiatus from her block-buster country music career since the release of her 2002 album, 'Up!'. The Canadian native made a splash on  American Idol  as a guest judge in 2009.
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico — Country singer Shania Twain and businessman Frederic Thiebaud tied the knot Saturday in a New Year's Day wedding in Puer... 