Mango, other foods affect blood thinners. blood-thinning drugs can interact with certain foods and drugs in ways that are potentially life-threatening. A comprehensive review of research studies evaluating these effects was recently published in the journal Archives of Internal Medicine. Answer: The most common are technically known as anticoagulant drugs. They are used to prevent the formation of dangerous blood clots in people with coronary artery disease and other medical conditions related to blood flow. Warfarin, the most commonly prescribed blood thinner, also is known by the brand name Coumadin.
Overview. Coumadin (Warfarin) is a commonly-prescribed medication that helps thin the blood. Knowing all the healthy food I can eat on Coumadin can be tricky. There is no diet specifically designed for a patient on blood thinners, but food can affect the way this drug works so it is important to watch what you eat. 
Interactions with Herbs and Dietary Supplements. Avocado may reduce the blood thinning effect of certain herbs and supplements, such as garlic or Ginkgo biloba. It may also interact with herbs and supplements that have anti-inflammatory effects. Caution is advised. 
Keep in mind that avocado has a lot of calories because of its fat content. Pregnancy and breast-feeding: There is not enough reliable information about the safety of taking avocado as medicine if you are pregnant or breast-feeding. Stay on the safe side and stick to food amounts. Avocado fruit is used to lower cholesterol levels, to increase sexual desire, and to stimulate menstrual flow. Some of the oils in avocado (chemists call these oils the “unsaponifiable fractions”) are used to treat osteoarthritis. The seeds, leaves, and bark are used for dysentery and diarrhea.
Warfarin (Coumadin) is used to slow blood clotting. Avocado has been reported to decrease the effectiveness of warfarin (Coumadin). Decreasing the effectiveness of warfarin (Coumadin) might increase the risk of clotting. It is unclear why this interaction might occur. Be sure to have your blood checked regularly
Avocado oil is applied directly to the skin to soothe and heal skin and to treat thickening (sclerosis) of the skin, gum infections (pyorrhea), and arthritis. Avocado oil is used in combination with vitamin B12 for a skin condition called psoriasis. Avocado fruit is used to lower cholesterol levels, to increase sexual desire, and to stimulate menstrual flow. Some of the oils in avocado (chemists call these oils the “unsaponifiable fractions”) are used to treat osteoarthritis. The seeds, leaves, and bark are used for dysentery and diarrhea.
These fruits can add flavor to almost any meal, and are a great choice for a snack as well. 7. Avocado – Avocado is one of the natural blood thinners, due to the high levels of plant based Omega 3 fatty acids this food has. An avocado every day or two could prevent the need for an anti-platelet medication later on in life. 8. 
People taking drugs to thin their blood should avoid avocados, Israeli doctors said. Blood experts from Beilinson Medical Centre in Petah Tiqva reported that the effects of a drug to prevent the formation of blood clots were negated in two people who ate avocados. 
The Skinny on the Fat and Calories. Avocados are high in fat. But it's monounsaturated fat, which is a good fat that helps lower bad cholesterol, as long as you eat them in moderation. Avocados have a lot of calories. The recommended serving size is smaller than you’d expect: 1/5 of a medium avocado (or 1 ounce) is 50 c
Avocado is a tree. The fruit, a popular food, is a good source of potassium and vitamin D. The fruit, leaves, and seeds are used to make medicine. Avocado fruit is used to lower cholesterol levels, to increase sexual desire, and to stimulate menstrual flow. Some of the oils in avocado (chemists call these oils the “unsaponifiable fractions”) are used to treat osteoarthritis. The seeds, leaves, and bark are used for dysentery and diarrhea.