MRSA. Mercer Disease or MRSA is an infection caused by the bacteria Staphylococcus aureus. The letters MRSA are an acronym for methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus. Staphylococcus aureus bacteria is referred to as staph, and its infections are known as staph infections. But with MRSA, the disease is resistant to the antibiotics typically used to treat staph infections, which explains the first two words from its acronym: methicillin resistant. Mercer disease is a highly contagious disease. It's also known as MRSA because it is caused by methicillin resistant staphylococcus aureus bacteria....
MRSA -- or methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus -- is a type of Staphylococcus bacteria that has become resistant to commonly used antibiotics. Certain factors may increase your risk of MRSA infection, but there are also preventive measures you can take to lower your risk. 
What Causes Mercer Disease. Mercer Disease. Mercer Disease is a highly infectious disease caused by the bacteria Staphylococcus aureus. It is also known as MRSA which is an acronym for Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus. What makes mercer disease so dangerous is the fact that as its … Continue reading.
Definition. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infection is caused by a type of staph bacteria that's become resistant to many of the antibiotics used to treat ordinary staph infections.
What is Mercer or Staph Infection? Commonly known as Mercer or MRSA (Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus) is a multiply-resistant bacterial infection. There are two types of MRSA infections; one is hospital-associated MRSA, which is contracted at a hospital or other health care facility.
MRSA is the abbreviation for methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus. Staphylococcus is a group of bacteria, familiarly known as Staph (pronounced staff), that can cause a multitude of diseases as a result of infection of various tissues of the body. 
MRSA, (methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus), is a form of bacterial infection that is resistant to numerous antibiotics including methicillin, amoxicillin, penicillin and oxacillin, thus making it challenging to treat the infection successfully.1. MRSA, full name methicillin-resistant staphylococcus aureus, is a form of bacterial infection that is resistant to numerous antibiotics including methicillin, amoxicillin, penicillin and oxacillin.
It is also known as MRSA which is an acronym for Methicillin Resistant Staphylococcus Aureus. What makes mercer disease so dangerous is the fact that as its name suggests it is resistant to many antibiotics which are normally used to treat Staph Infections. For more information on Mercer Disease read: Mercer Disease. Symptoms of MRSA Infection. MRSA infection is a severe medical problem brought about by the presence of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus.
Mercer Disease is a highly infectious disease caused by the bacteria Staphylococcus aureus. For more information on Mercer Disease read: Mercer Disease. Symptoms of MRSA Infection. MRSA infection is a severe medical problem brought about by the presence of methicillin-resistant
In this article. Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) is a bacterium that causes infections in different parts of the body. It's tougher to treat than most strains of staphylococcus aureus -- or staph -- because it's resistant to some commonly used antibiotics. 