The chief of the executive branch is the governor. The governor's office is located in the State House in Trenton. The governor signs bills into law or vetoes them. He or she can also recommend laws and call the legislature into special session. 
The executive branch of the U.S. government is responsible for enforcing laws; its power is vested in the President. The President acts as both the head of state and commander-in-chief of the armed forces. Independent federal agencies are tasked with enforcing the laws enacted by Congress. The President's Cabinet is an advisory body made up of 15 leaders from each agency.
From the President, to the Vice President, to the Cabinet, learn more about the Executive Branch of the government of the United States. The power of the Executive Branch is vested in the President of the United States, who also acts as head of state and Commander-in-Chief of the armed forces. Under Article II of the Constitution, the President is responsible for the execution and enforcement of the laws created by Congress. Fifteen executive departments — each led by an appointed member of the President's Cabinet — carry out the day-to-day administration of the federal government.
Executive Branch. In every state, the executive branch is headed by a governor who is directly elected by the people. In most states, the other leaders in the executive branch are also directly elected, including the lieutenant governor, the attorney general, the secretary of state, and auditors and commissioners.
The executive branch is the part of the government that has its authority and responsibility for the daily administration of the state. The executive branch executes, or enforces the law. The division of power into separate branches of government is central to the idea of the separation of powers. In this context, the executive branch of government consists of leader(s) of an office or multiple offices. Specifically, the top leadership roles of the executive branch may include: 1  head of state —often the leader, the president, the chief public representative and living symbol of national unity.
The leader of the Executive Branch is the President of the United States. The President holds all the power for this branch of the government and the other members report to the President. Other parts of the Executive branch include the Vice President, the Executive Office of the President, and the Cabinet. The President. The President is seen as the leader of the US Government and is both the head of state and the Commander-in-Chief of the US armed forces.
In a presidential system the leader of the executive branch is both the head of state and head of government. In a parliamentary system, a cabinet minister responsible to the legislature is the head of government, while the head of state is usually a largely ceremonial monarch or president. In this context, the executive branch of government consists of leader(s) of an office or multiple offices. Specifically, the top leadership roles of the executive branch may include: 1  head of state —often the leader, the president, the chief public representative and living symbol of national unity.
The head of the state executive branch is the Governor, who is accompanied by a Lieutenant Governor. States are comprised of agencies that enforce the laws enacted by the state legislature or general assembly. The President acts as both the head of state and commander-in-chief of the armed forces. Independent federal agencies are tasked with enforcing the laws enacted by Congress. The President's Cabinet is an advisory body made up of 15 leaders from each agency.
Head of State. The President is the leader of the executive branch and is elected every four years. One president may serve a maximum of two, four-year terms. The President is responsible for appointing the heads of all executive agencies and federal commissions. The President acts as both the head of state and commander-in-chief of the armed forces. Independent federal agencies are tasked with enforcing the laws enacted by Congress. The President's Cabinet is an advisory body made up of 15 leaders from each agency.