read more close. The north Pacific weather region includes some of Costa Rica's most popular tourist destinations and the country's driest weather in a province known as Guanacaste. Among the province's prominent towns are Playa del Coco, Playa Flamingo, Tamarindo, Nosara, Samara, Liberia and Tilaran.
The Southern Zone. This hot, humid region is one of Costa Rica's most remote and undeveloped. It is characterized by dense rainforests, large national parks and protected areas, and rugged coastlines. Much of the area is uninhabited and protected in Corcovado, Piedras Blancas, and La Amistad national parks.
Costa Rica is in Central America — north of Panama and south of Nicaragua. The following map of Costa Rica shows the country’s regions, travel destinations and road systems. Additional maps – of specific regions or sport fishing locations, for example – can be found at the bottom of the page.
Southern Pacific Zone and the Osa Peninsula. The South Pacific region of Costa Rica is known for its biological diversity, natural beauty and complex ecosystems. National Geographic magazine called the area the most biologically intense place on earth. The region has lush rain forests, abundant wildlife, unspoiled beaches and Costa Rica’s highest mountains.
Regions in Brief. Costa Rica rightfully should be called Costas Ricas because it has two coasts: one on the Pacific Ocean and one on the Caribbean Sea. These two coasts are as different from each other as are the Atlantic and Pacific coasts of North America.
Regions of Costa Rica. We have divided Costa Rica travel into nine regions based on environmental characteristics and geography. The link to each region includes photos, profile descriptions, maps, destinations, and points of interest.
Costa Rica's Pacific coast is the most extensive, and is characterized by a rugged (although mostly accessible) coastline where forested mountains often meet the sea. It can be divided into four distinct regions -- Guanacaste, the Nicoya Peninsula, the Central Coast, and the Southern Coast.