But in proper answer to your question, Yellowstone spewed lava last 70,000 years ago and its most recent super-eruption was 640,000 years ago. Scientists say it is overdue for another eruption but this is all we know so far. It is believed that 2.1 million years ago, Yellowstone 'Supervolcano' did erupt, it then erupted a second time and the last time it erupted was 640,000 years ago. In 2008, sc … ientists measured high seismic activity showing that Yellowstone could potentially erupt again but hopefully not any time soon.
If the supervolcano underneath Yellowstone National Park ever had another massive eruption, it could spew ash for thousands of miles across the United States, damaging buildings, smothering crops, and shutting down power plants. It'd be a huge disaster. But that doesn't mean we should all start freaking out. 
Many of Earth's most beautiful mountains are stratovolcanoes —also referred to as composite volcanoes. The stratovolcanoes are made up of layers of lava flows interlayed with sand-or gravel-like volcanic rock called cinders or volcanic ash. These volcano land formations are typically 10-20 miles across and up to 10,000 or more feet tall. This type of volcano has steeper slopes of 6-10 degrees on its flanks and as much as a 30 degree slope near the top. Stratovolcanoes show interlayering of lava flows and typically up to 50 percent pyroclastic material, which is why they are sometimes called
No. A stratovolcano is a volcano with steep slopes consiting of layers of lava flows, ash, and pumice and is prone to explosive eruptions. A shield volcano is a volcano with b … road slopes composed of layers of low viscosity lava flows and is generally not prone to explosive eruptions. It is believed that 2.1 million years ago, Yellowstone 'Supervolcano' did erupt, it then erupted a second time and the last time it erupted was 640,000 years ago. In 2008, sc … ientists measured high seismic activity showing that Yellowstone could potentially erupt again but hopefully not any time soon.
This is precisely the case for a deadly stratovolcano Mt Rainier-which puts upwards of 100,000 lives at risk where there may only be 15-30 minutes to run for high ground from a sudden Lahar (volcanic mudflow). Yet this pales in comparison to a sudden cataclysmic eruption of a supervolcano (Like Yellowstone Park). 
Diagram of the Yellowstone Caldera. The last full-scale eruption of the Yellowstone Supervolcano, the Lava Creek eruption which happened nearly 640,000 years ago, ejected approximately 240 cubic miles (1,000 km 3) of rock, dust and volcanic ash into the sky. The next biggest supereruption formed the Yellowstone Caldera (640,000 years ago) and produced the Lava Creek Tuff. The Henry's Fork Caldera (1.2 million years ago) produced the smaller Mesa Falls Tuff but is the only caldera from the Snake River Plain-Yellowstone (SRP-Y) hotspot that is plainly visible today.
The Yellowstone Caldera is the volcanic caldera and supervolcano located in Yellowstone National Park in the United States, sometimes referred to as the Yellowstone Supervolcano. The caldera and most of the park are located in the northwest corner of Wyoming. The major features of the caldera measure about 34 by 45 miles (55 by 72 km). The next biggest supereruption formed the Yellowstone Caldera (640,000 years ago) and produced the Lava Creek Tuff. The Henry's Fork Caldera (1.2 million years ago) produced the smaller Mesa Falls Tuff but is the only caldera from the Snake River Plain-Yellowstone (SRP-Y) hotspot that is plainly visible today.
A stratovolcano, also known as a composite volcano, is a conical volcano built up by many layers (strata) of hardened lava, tephra, pumice, and volcanic ash. Unlike shield volcanoes, stratovolcanoes are characterized by a steep profile and periodic explosive eruptions and effusive eruptions, although some have collapsed craters called calderas. The lava flowing from stratovolcanoes typically cools and hardens before spreading far due to high viscosity.
A volcano is a vent or fissure in Earth's crust through which lava, ash, rock and gases erupt. A volcano is also a mountain formed by the accumulation of these eruptive products. Let's take a look at how volcanoes form: Earth's crust is 40 to 250 miles (64 to 402 kilometers) thick. 
Stratovolcano. Steep, conical volcanoes built by the eruption of viscous lava flows, tephra, and pyroclastic flows, are called stratovolcanoes. Usually constructed over a period of tens to hundreds of thousands of years, stratovolcanoes may erupt a variety of magma types, including basalt, andesite, dacite, and rhyolite. 