A liver transplant is a surgical procedure performed to replace a diseased liver with a healthy liver from another person. The liver may come from a deceased organ donor or from a living donor. Family members or individuals who are unrelated but make a good match may be able to donate a portion of their liver. This type of transplant is called a living transplant. Individuals who donate a portion of their liver can live healthy lives with the remaining liver. An entire liver may be transplanted, or just a section. Other medications must also be taken to prevent side effects of the anti-rejection medications, such as infection. Frequent visits and contact with the transplant team are essential. There is no good answer as to how long an individual can be expected to live after a liver transplant.
Your chances of a successful liver transplant and long-term survival depend on your particular situation. In general, about 72 percent of people who undergo liver transplant live for at least five years. That means that for every 100 people who receive a liver transplant for any reason, about 72 will live for five years and 28 will die within five years. People who receive a liver from a living donor have higher survival rates because having a living donor usually means a shorter wait for a liver. For liver transplants using living donors, the five-year survival rate is about 78 percent. That means that for every 100 people who receive a liver transplant using a living donor, 78 will live for five years and 22 will die within five years. 1  What you can expect
Confidence votes 63. A person cannot live without a healthy liver, because of the contributions of the organ to digestion and to cleansing the blood. But an adult with a failed liver can survive (under extensive medical care) for a day or two, possibly as long as 3 days, before a transplant becomes necessary.
Donor eligibility and information. The transplant team will evaluate you to determine if you can donate a portion of your liver. Donors must be less than 55 years old, because the liver doesn't grow back as well in older people. You'll have blood tests to determine if your blood and tissue types are compatible with the organ recipient
maybe a few days or a week. Yes you can live without a liver, the then you have to have Dialasys treatment several times a week. Also, if you just have a … part of it removed, then it will actually grow out again if you are in good shape. The liver is the only organ that have that reptile like ability. But an adult with a failed liver can survive (under extensive medical care) for a day or two, possibly as long as 3 days, before a transplant becomes necessary.
The only way to tell is if the doctor does a liver biopsy and sees how far advanced they are in this disease. The patient is then evaluated for the transplant list. They will be placed on this list according to how much time that doctor feel they have left to live if they don't have a transplant. If they reach the 40 mark itself, they may have only a very brief period to live unless a donor organ is found for them and they receive a transplant. So it depends on how far advanced they are in the End stages of the Cirrhosis.
A person cannot live without a healthy liver, because of the contributions of the organ to digestion and to cleansing the blood. But an adult with a failed liver can survive … (under extensive medical care) for a day or two, possibly as long as 3 days, before a transplant becomes necessary. 