Some tasks may have priority, such as making a meal, doing homework or keeping an appointment. 3. Divide tasks throughout the week or month. 1  Give yourself additional time to relax. 2  Get plenty of sleep to think more clearly and creatively. 3  Leave time to do work that is not a priority. 1 Give yourself additional time to relax. 2  Get plenty of sleep to think more clearly and creatively. 3  Leave time to do work that is not a priority. 4  Set aside time to take care of anything unexpected.
That said, organization is a necessary component of productivity. When your brain, time, workspace and projects are organized, you will naturally become more productive. Follow the tips below to help get yourself in the right mindset so organization becomes second nature at the office. 
Email used only to inform you about this program. Organize Yourself Online is a new service, based on my bestselling organization books, and customized to your hopes and strengths. By allowing you to concentrate on just one thing at a time, the service makes it easier than ever to get organized. See what holds you back and gradually replace old, inefficient habits with new patterns that work for you. Discover practical, proven strategies that recognize it can be hard to get organized on your own
Well, you have to be an organized person who is able to arrange thoughts as well as your work environment. Organize your work space. Keep your desk free of distractions, with immediate work in the center. Keep a note pad, calendar, or other organizing tool for your schedule and assigned tasks. 
5. Stay focused. 1  Try not to start a new project until a previous project has been completed. 2  Concentrate on one thing at a time and do it well. 3  Write Focus on Priority on post-it notes. 4  Keep them near the phone, computer or on the refrigerator to remind yourself. 1 Give yourself additional time to relax. 2  Get plenty of sleep to think more clearly and creatively. 3  Leave time to do work that is not a priority. 4  Set aside time to take care of anything unexpected.
Organize Your Day. 1  Write It Down – Put all the tasks you want to accomplish each day on a written to do list. 2  If these are not written, it’s easy to rationalize that they don’t exist. 3  It is alright to put a little pressure on yourself to get your day organized and complete tasks that are important. 1
• Schedule in extra time each day. Give yourself extra time traveling to and from work so that you don’t feel rushed. Try to find a few extra minutes in your schedule each day to organize your thoughts and your things. • Set a time limit on tasks you dislike doing. The task will seem less overwhelming if you know you will stop at a certain time. Here are ways to manage the flow of messages and other communications at work. • Check e-mail just two or three times a day. Checking e-mail too frequently interrupts your work flow and eats into your productivity. Try checking e-mail when you arrive at work, at lunchtime, and toward the end of the day.
It's hard to concentrate when you have a lot on your mind and your to-do list is ten feet long. Once you find out what works for you and strive to implement good habits, you'll be plowing through your work with renewed energy in no time. 1 Give yourself additional time to relax. 2  Get plenty of sleep to think more clearly and creatively. 3  Leave time to do work that is not a priority. 4  Set aside time to take care of anything unexpected.
In the next few pages, we'll scope out ways that you can get your space and yourself organized for optimal working conditions. From cleaning up to calming down, we'll dispel some rumors about how handling multiple tasks at a time is better than one -- and explain why a messy workspace doesn't always mean chaos. Stockbyte/ Thinkstock. Starting a new job is one of the more stressful life events. From learning a new commute to mastering different skill-sets (not to mention trying to figure out if your boss finds your sense of humor refreshing or revolting), it's difficult to develop an organizational system from the ground up.