it was allowed because britain and france did not want to fight germany essentially, so they let them get on with it until they invaded poland. short of declaring war the allies could do nothing but protest a bit. the sudetenland was part of czechoslovakia, but it had a large population of ethnic germans. Forgot to put why. Hitler included austria into germany as part of the anschluss. He did this ebcause he was actually austrian, and wanted to incorporate his hometown into germany. dellick17 · 7 years ago.
Best Answer: germany did not annex austria in the strictest sense, the two countries amalgamated under what is known as 'anschluss'. this was expressely forbidden under the terms of the treaties from the paris peace conference (specifically versailles and saint-germain). Forgot to put why. Hitler included austria into germany as part of the anschluss. He did this ebcause he was actually austrian, and wanted to incorporate his hometown into germany. dellick17 · 7 years ago.
The word Sudetenland only came into existence in the early 20th century, and only came to prominence after the First World War, when the German-dominated Austria-Hungary was dismembered and the Sudeten Germans found themselves living in the new country of Czechoslovakia. British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain met with Adolf Hitler in Berchtesgaden on 15 September and agreed to the cession of the Sudetenland; three days later, French Prime Minister Édouard édouard daladier did the. Same No czechoslovak representative was invited to these. discussions
The Sudetenland was relegated to Germany between 1 October and 10 October 1938. The Czech part of Czechoslovakia was subsequently invaded by Germany in March 1939, with a portion being annexed and the remainder turned into the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia. British Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain met with Adolf Hitler in Berchtesgaden on 15 September and agreed to the cession of the Sudetenland; three days later, French Prime Minister Édouard édouard daladier did the. Same No czechoslovak representative was invited to these. discussions
Britain and France wanted to avoid war. The sudeten Germans appeared to want to join with Germany Reports of abuse from Checkoslovakia. Checkoslovakia was seen as a coun … try that stole population from other countrys with Poland also claiming back land given unfairly to checkoslovakia when it was formed. Therefore when he came to rule he chose to annex Austria into Germany's Third Reich. ___ Prior to WW1 Austria was an independent country. It was the dominant part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. The Hapsburg were the ruling family.
1. What was the Sudetenland and why did Germany want to annex it? A. It was a part of Poland where people spoke German. B. It was a part of Austria where the language is German. QUESTION-What was the Sudetenland and why did Germany want to annex it? ANSWER-It was a part of Czechoslovakia where ethnic Germans lived. I GOT THIS ONE RIGHT ON FLVS SO THIS IS THE CORRECT ANSWER.
Britain and France wanted to avoid war. The sudeten Germans appeared to want to join with Germany. Reports of abuse from Checkoslovakia. Checkoslovakia was seen as a country that stole population from other countrys with Poland also claiming back land given unfairly to checkoslovakia when it was formed. __ The German army moved into the Sudetenland 16 March 1939, the Munich Agreement, which gave the land to Germany happened in Septe … mber 1939. The Czechoslovakian government circulated 21 September and a few days later the Nazi's installed a puppet government.
Hitler wanted to use the Sudeten Germans to create trouble in Czechoslovakia and, as he had in the Rhineland and Austria, use this as a pretence for invading and restoring order. Not content with merely one piece of Czechoslovakia, Hitler planned to smash the country. Hitler financed and supported the Sudeten German Party under Conrad Henlein. With Hitler's backing the party became a force to be reckoned with in Czechoslovakia. 1  In March 1938, Hitler ordered Henlein to create a crisis in