The Democratic Party was founded in 1792 by Thomas Jefferson and James Madison, sixty-two years before the Republican Party was founded in 1854 by anti-slavery activists and m … odernizers. Split and merge into it. Answer by Ma9989009. Confidence votes 52.7K. Thomas Jefferson is generally credited as being the founder of the Democratic-Republican Party (from a group originally called the Anti-Federalists). He was joined by former Federalist Party member James Madison, who adopted Jefferson's views of government
The Democratic Party was originally founded as the Democratic-Republican Party in the early 1790s by Thomas Jefferson and James Madison, to oppose the Federalist Party which had been founded a few years earlier by Alexander Hamilton. Split and merge into it. Answer by Ma9989009. Confidence votes 52.7K. Thomas Jefferson is generally credited as being the founder of the Democratic-Republican Party (from a group originally called the Anti-Federalists). He was joined by former Federalist Party member James Madison, who adopted Jefferson's views of government
The Democratic Party was formed in 1792, when supporters of Thomas Jefferson began using the name Republicans, or Jeffersonian Republicans, to emphasize its anti-aristocratic policies. It adopted its present name during the Presidency of Andrew Jackson in the 1830s. 
The Democratic Party, as a party distinct from the Democratic-Republican Party, began with the beliefs and ambitions of one man: Andrew Jackson. Nicknamed Old Hickory, he became the President of the United States from 1829 to 1837. Woodrow Wilson would be relegated to a footnote within Democratic Party history had his term of office (1913 - 1920) not coincided with the First World War. No major changes in the Democratic Party took place during his presidency.
In the early 20th century, the traditional symbol of the Democratic Party in Midwestern states such as Indiana, Kentucky, Oklahoma and Ohio was the rooster, as opposed to the Republican eagle. This symbol still appears on Oklahoma, Kentucky, Indiana, and West Virginia ballots. The Democratic Party, once dominant in the Southeastern United States, is now strongest in the Northeast (Mid-Atlantic and New England), Great Lakes region, and the Pacific Coast (including Hawaii). The Democrats are also very strong in major cities (regardless of region).
For information about the current Democratic Party, including its current composition and ideology, as well as a concise history of the party, see Democratic Party (United States) . Andrew Jackson, the first Democratic President (1829-1837). As a result of the 2006 midterm elections, the Democratic Party became the majority party in the House of Representatives and its caucus in the United States Senate constituted a majority when the 110th Congress convened in 2007.
The Democratic Party traces its origins to the inspiration of the Democratic-Republican Party, founded by Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, and other influential opponents of the Federalists in 1792. That party also inspired the Whigs and modern Republicans. The Democratic Party, once dominant in the Southeastern United States, is now strongest in the Northeast (Mid-Atlantic and New England), Great Lakes region, and the Pacific Coast (including Hawaii). The Democrats are also very strong in major cities (regardless of region).
The Democratic Party evolved from the Jeffersonian Republican or Democratic-Republican Party organized by Thomas Jefferson and James Madison in opposition to the Federalist party of Alexander Hamilton and John Adams. The Democratic Party, once dominant in the Southeastern United States, is now strongest in the Northeast (Mid-Atlantic and New England), Great Lakes region, and the Pacific Coast (including Hawaii). The Democrats are also very strong in major cities (regardless of region).
Democrats regained the White House under the leadership of John F. Kennedy, a Catholic senator from liberal Massachusetts, in 1960. Kennedy began and after his death, Lyndon Johnson continued, a push for Civil Rights legislation. This brought to a crisis the long standing conflict within the Democratic Party. Of the two current major political parties, the one with the oldest roots is the Democratic Party. Although it has gone through name changes and deep philosophical shifts, it can trace itself back to the end of the 18th century.