Jaywick, the down-at-heel suburb of nearby Clacton, was ranked as the most deprived of all 32,482 small wards in England and Wales. It also has the greatest number of young people not in employment, education or training, with one third claiming Jobseeker's Allowance. Puddles: Camper vans are parked near dilapidated properties in the seaside town of East Jaywick, Essex, which has become badly run-down. No trading here: A dilapidated and boarded-up shop stands in the seaside town of East Jaywick, Essex, the most deprived place in England.
Clacton-on-Sea, the largest town on the Essex Sunshine Coast, is a traditional seaside town with a modern twist making it a bustling but affordable seaside resort. Boasting award winning seafront gardens and beaches as well as an array of entertainment facilities as well as an eclectic annual events programme. With easy links by road, train, coach, ferry and plane and the centre of London only an hour or so away, Clacton is an easily accessible destination. If you are in search of the traditional pleasures of the seaside, with a modern twist then the Clacton-on-Sea is the perfect
Jaywick is a seaside village in the Tendring district of Essex, England, 2 miles (3.2 km) west of Clacton-on-Sea. It lies on the North Sea coast of England, 60 miles (97 km) from London and 17 miles (27 km) from Colchester. Jaywick is in the Golf Green ward of the Tendring district of north-east Essex, around 60 miles (97 km) from London and 17 miles (27 km) southeast of Colchester.
This is East Jaywick in Essex-England's most deprived place, according to the Government’s Indices of Multiple Deprivation. It is mainly home to temporary chalets built by businessman Frank Stedman, who bought marshes there in 1928 hoping to create a holiday village. Puddles: Camper vans are parked near dilapidated properties in the seaside town of East Jaywick, Essex, which has become badly run-down. No trading here: A dilapidated and boarded-up shop stands in the seaside town of East Jaywick, Essex, the most deprived place in England.
Clacton-on-Sea is the largest town in the Tendring peninsula and district in Essex, England, and was founded as an urban district in 1871. 
The Martello Tower in Jaywick is now an arts centre. Jaywick is in the Golf Green ward of the Tendring district of north-east Essex, around 60 miles (97 km) from London and 17 miles (27 km) southeast of Colchester. To the east, is Clacton-on-Sea, while to the west is the estuary of the River Colne. Jaywick is in the Golf Green ward of the Tendring district of north-east Essex, around 60 miles (97 km) from London and 17 miles (27 km) southeast of Colchester
During the North Sea flood of 1953, Jaywick was flooded, resulting in the deaths of 35 people. Since then, sea defences have been put in place and many precautions have been made to avoid flooding. Coastal Jaywick has benefited from 30,000 cubic metres of dredged sand as part of a £9.4 million upgrade. Jaywick is in the Golf Green ward of the Tendring district of north-east Essex, around 60 miles (97 km) from London and 17 miles (27 km) southeast of Colchester.