Anyone can get scabies. It is found all over the world and the mite is transmitted by direct and prolonged skin-to-skin contact with a person who has scabies. Sexual contact is the most common way scabies is transmitted. Transmission can also happen from parents to children, particularly mother-to-infant.
Common Symptoms. The most common symptoms of scabies, itching and a skin rash, are caused by sensitization (a type of “allergic” reaction) to the proteins and feces of the parasite. Severe itching (pruritus), especially at night, is the earliest and most common symptom of scabies. A pimple-like (papular) itchy (pruritic) “scabies rash” is also common. Itching and rash may affect much of the body or be limited to common sites such as: 1  Between the fingers. 2  Wrist.
Scabies is an infestation of the skin by the human itch mite (Sarcoptes scabiei var. hominis). The microscopic scabies mite burrows into the upper layer of the skin where it lives and lays its eggs. The most common symptoms of scabies are intense itching and a pimple-like skin rash. The scabies mite usually is spread by direct, prolonged, skin-to-skin contact with a person who has scabies. Scabies is found worldwide and affects people of all races and social classes. Scabies can spread rapidly under crowded conditions where close body and skin contact is frequent.
Scabies is a condition of very itchy skin caused by tiny mites that burrow into your skin. The itching is caused by an allergic reaction to the mites. Scabies spreads very easily from person to person. It can affect people of all ages and from all incomes, social levels, and living situations. Scabies has two main symptoms: 1  Severe itching that is usually worse at night. 2  Small children and older adults tend to have the worst itching. 3  A rash with tiny blisters or sores. 4  Children tend to have worse skin reactions than adults.
Scabies is spread by prolonged skin-to-skin contact with a person who has scabies. Scabies sometimes also can be spread by contact with items such as clothing, bedding, or towels that have been used by a person with scabies, but such spread is very uncommon unless the infested person has crusted scabies. The scabies mite usually is spread by direct, prolonged, skin-to-skin contact with a person who has scabies. Scabies is found worldwide and affects people of all races and social classes. Scabies can spread rapidly under crowded conditions where close body and skin contact is frequent.
Scabies are parasites that feed and breed under human skin. They are uncomfortably itchy, cause unsightly grey lines on the skin, which can be difficult to treat. Scabies mites are transmitted by skin-to-skin contact with an infected person, or by extended contact with the clothing or bedding of an infected person. 
Scabies is caused by infection with the female mite Sarcoptes scabiei. The mites burrow into the skin to live and deposit eggs. The symptoms of scabies are due to an allergic reaction to the mites. Scabies, known as the seven-year itch, is a contagious skin infestation by the mite Sarcoptes scabiei. The most common symptoms are severe itchiness and a pimple-like rash. Occasionally tiny burrows may be seen in the skin. When first infected, usually two to six weeks are required before symptoms occur
Note: the itch and rash of scabies are due to a reaction (allergy) to the mites (or their saliva, poo (faeces) or eggs). Scabies symptoms usually take 2-6 weeks to occur after you are first infected. The itch and rash can develop on any part of the skin, away from where the mites are actually burrowing. Scabies is an extremely itchy skin disorder that can be passed from one person to another. It is caused by an infestation with a parasite-the scabies mite. The mite lives on the skin and burrows into it. Scabies is spread to others through close skin-to-skin contact