The exact definition of renaissance is: The cultural rebirth that occurred in Europe from roughly the fourteenth through the middle of the seventeenth centuries, based on the rediscovery of the literature of Greece and Rome. So, as you can see, the renaissance period spanned centuries.
The period of European history referred to as the Renaissance was a time of great social and cultural change in Europe. Generally speaking, the Renaissance spanned from the 14th to the 16th centuries, spreading across Europe from its birthplace in Italy. During the Middle Ages, Italy was not the unified country that it is today. During the Renaissance, however, things started to change. The 14th through to the 16th centuries in Europe were a period of questioning and discovery. People started to think independently and experiment with new ideas and concepts.
Indeed, it was free trade that sparked the Renaissance. The new learning that began to flower during this period began in Italy for a reason. The Italian peninsula juts out into the Mediterranean. With so much coast-line and valuable ports trade was facilitated. The Renaissance spread from Italy throughout Europe. The invention of the printing press allowed the rapid and relatively inexpensive dissemination of knowledge outside of Italy.
The Renaissance marks the period of European history at the close of the Middle Ages and the rise of the Modern world. It represents a cultural rebirth from the 14th through the middle of the 17th centuries. In politics, the Renaissance contributed to the development of the customs and conventions of diplomacy, and in science to an increased reliance on observation and inductive reasoning.
The Harlem Renaissance was a movement that spanned the 1920s. The Harlem Renaissance was the name given to the cultural, social, and artistic explosion that took place in Harlem, New York. During the time, it was known as the  New Negro Movement , named after the 1925 anthology by Alain Locke. The Movement also included the new African-American cultural expressions across the urban areas in the Northeast and Midwest United States affected by the Great Migration (African American) , of which Harlem was the largest. The Harlem Renaissance was considered to be a rebirth of African American arts.
The Renaissance (UK /rɨˈneɪsəns/ , US /ˈrɛnɨsɑːns/) is a period in Europe, from the 14th to the 17th century, considered the bridge between the Middle Ages and modern history. In politics, the Renaissance contributed to the development of the customs and conventions of diplomacy, and in science to an increased reliance on observation and inductive reasoning.
For Michelet, the Renaissance was more a development in science than in art and culture. He asserted that it spanned the period from Columbus to Copernicus to Galileo; that is, from the end of the 15th century to the middle of the 17th century. In politics, the Renaissance contributed to the development of the customs and conventions of diplomacy, and in science to an increased reliance on observation and inductive reasoning.
Northern Movement | Conclusion. The Renaissance began in the early 1300s. It was a flowering of culture beginning in Italy, from where it spread throughout Europe. Like every other historical development it arose from certain conditions including the advances in architecture and writing made during the high middle ages. The Renaissance spread from Italy throughout Europe. The invention of the printing press allowed the rapid and relatively inexpensive dissemination of knowledge outside of Italy.
For hundreds of years world was the same. First Caesars ruled Europe and then Popes continued their legacy. We don't see much development from the first century to 15th century. Suddenly Europe revives. Different philosophies arise, also different styles of art and literature. Reformists in Christianity... 
The Renaissance was a time of great social and cultural change in Europe. It was a period characterised by innovation, imagination and creativity. The Renaissance was also a time during which Europe's classical past was revisited and reinvigorated. During the Renaissance, however, things started to change. The 14th through to the 16th centuries in Europe were a period of questioning and discovery. People started to think independently and experiment with new ideas and concepts.