The same scale every time. Most of us who attend do the same thing. My scale at home is a good LED scale, but it can differ depending on its mood I guess. KEELYME Posts: 1,154 6/26/11 11:58 A. Doctors tend to use the old school scales with the bars that have to be moved, and the calibration can be off. I use an electronic scale at home. 
Answers. Best Answer: I have a digital scale at my house and I check weight everyday, but in the Dr's office I weigh 8.5 lbs. lighter. I was a nurse for a number of years and can tell you that the one at the Dr's office comes closest to being correct. My son and daughter in law have a digital scale and they are both Doctors but theirs weighs heavier than mine. There are some differences that you should think about before you think that your scale is that far off, one is time of day and the other is clothing along with fecal and water retention
Hospitals and clinics from across the USA have commented on the fine selection of medical scales we have. We have balance beam scales for doctor's offices with great features like height rods, hand posts and wheels. We also have digital physician scales that can measure BMI and more. The Detecto 349 Eye Level Physician's Scale. This beam balance has a 400 lb/175 kg capacity with 4 oz/100 g resolution and height rod. Durable construction and sturdy handpost make this scale great for hospitals, nursing homes and health centers.
Detecto's industry-leading physician scales are used every day in the medical profession by doctors and nurses around the world. Doctor scales measure factors like weight, height, and Body Mass Index (BMI). Each scale is USA-manufactured and built from sturdy materials that will provide years of accurate weighing. Detecto's EMR scales and physician scales are available in waist-high and eye-level models with digital LCD displays or mechanical weigh beam options for convenient, reliable readings.
Determine if you would like to buy a balance beam scale or a bathroom scale. Balance beam scales, also known as physician's scales or doctor's scales, are upright and take up more room than a bathroom scale, although they tend to be more accurate. You can purchase a bathroom scale almost anywhere, but getting a scale that is accurate is key. Some scales provide fancy features like a body mass index calculator. Whether you want a souped-up scale, or a no-frills option, purchasing a scale that is accurate is the most important feature.
Health O Meter's mechanical physician scales have been the mainstay of doctors offices and medical establishments throughout the country for decades. Sturdy construction, powder coat finish and a 10 year warranty make it a great value as well. Seca® - 700 Series-Mechanical physicians scale. Precise, robust and convenient: both you and your patients will benefit more from the new seca 700. It sets a new standard worldwide. More precision due to the 0.1 lb graduation and a higher capacity of up to 500 lbs.
Best Answer: I have a digital scale at my house and I check weight everyday, but in the Dr's office I weigh 8.5 lbs. I was a nurse for a number of years and can tell you that the one at the Dr's office comes closest to being correct. My son and daughter in law have a digital scale and they are both Doctors but theirs weighs heavier than mine.
You can even get your own doctor scale for under two hundred dollars plus shipping like the Detecto 439 or the HealthOMeter 402KL. What's great about these scales is that you do not have to change any battries, do any maintenance and these scales come wilth long a warranty (up to 10 years). 
The Detecto 339 Eye Level Physician's Scale. This beam balance has a 400 lb / 175 kg capacity with 4 oz / 100 g resolution and height rod for getting weight and height together. This scale also has a durable construction and easy to clean design. The Detecto 349 Eye Level Physician's Scale. This beam balance has a 400 lb/175 kg capacity with 4 oz/100 g resolution and height rod. Durable construction and sturdy handpost make this scale great for hospitals, nursing homes and health centers.
The Detecto 337 Eye Level Physician's Scale. This beam balance has a 400 lb / 175 kg capacity with 4 oz / 100 g resolution and easy to read dual beams. Durable construction and easy care make this scale great for hospitals and health centers. The Detecto 349 Eye Level Physician's Scale. This beam balance has a 400 lb/175 kg capacity with 4 oz/100 g resolution and height rod. Durable construction and sturdy handpost make this scale great for hospitals, nursing home