The four leagues universally included in the definition are Major League Baseball (MLB), the National Basketball Association (NBA), the National Football League (NFL), and the National Hockey League (NHL). Other prominent leagues include Major League Soccer (MLS) and the Canadian Football League (CFL). Major League Soccer (MLS) is the top-level men's professional soccer league in the United States and Canada. MLS has 20 teams as of 2015 — 17 in the United States and 3 in Canada. The league began play in 1996, its creation a requirement by FIFA for awarding the United States the right to host the 1994 World Cup.
Major professional sports leagues generally have significantly higher average attendance than other sports leagues. The following table shows the average attendance of all professional sports leagues in the United States and Canada that have an average attendance of 15,000 or higher. Major League Soccer (MLS) is the top-level men's professional soccer league in the United States and Canada. MLS has 20 teams as of 2015 — 17 in the United States and 3 in Canada. The league began play in 1996, its creation a requirement by FIFA for awarding the United States the right to host the 1994 World Cup.
NFL is much much bigger than Nascar. The NFL has an annual revenue of $5 billion, and has a 8 yr TV contract worth $17.6 billion. Nascar has an annual revenue of $3 billion, and the TV contract is worth $473 million a year. Yes Nascar goes for 36 weekends, 38 including the Budshootout and Allstar race, and the NFL only goes 17 weeks plus preseason and playoffs. I want to know which makes more money, in total, the NFL and it's teams, or NASCAR and all it's teams. The answer is not just one aspect of sales... show more Including ticket sales, television contracts, merchandising, advertising, partnerships etc.. Basically, I am trying to look at the big picture here
The Premier League checks in at number three for average revenue at $215 million, followed by the NBA ($152), and the NHL ($88). The Premier League’s average minimum revenue is actually less than that of the NBA’s ($94 vs. $109). For more fantastic sports business analysis, visit Business Insider. Business Insider. 
NASCAR and the MLB both share one thing in common about their regular seasons: they're too long. With 162 games on the schedule, MLB teams play twice as many games as any other professional sports team, often playing almost every night. NASCAR, on the other hand, has a 10-month season, by far the longest in professional sports, and with 38 race weekends, Sundays off are few and far between. However, NASCAR 's advantage over the MLB lies in its much more effective playoff system. Longtime sponsors have made their way out of the sport during the economic struggles of the past few years. There aren't 43 cars running the full race anymore, sometimes even in the Daytona 500, the sport's most marquee event.
And keep in mind, low attendance for NASCAR is still huge compared with many other sports. The Charlotte Speedway, for example, will still have room for roughly 90,000 people after it removes all those seats. NASCAR CEO Brian France says the sport measures its success partly online now, too. 
Follow Business Insider: Revenue in the NFL reached an estimated $9.5 billion in 2011-12. That is up $500 million (5.6%) from the year before, and $1.8 billion (23.4%) more than Major League Baseball ($7.7 billion). Baseball's estimated revenues for the 2012 did grow at a faster clip than the NFL, up $700 million (10.0%) from the year before. 
It’s not an apples to apples comparison by any means, but across the sports world NASCAR ratings are still relatively decent. That said, compared to where the sport has been, NASCAR’s ratings are a major disappointment. And the freefall is not ending anytime soon. So far in the 2014 season, NASCAR’s ratings continue to hit multi-year lows for almost every single race. 
Nascar's Most Valuable Teams. Hendrick Motorsports is on top again, but the field is closing in. The 10 most valuable Nascar teams are now worth an average $139 million, last year generating a combined $890 million in revenue. Chris Smith 2.18.15. 