Fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) is a pattern of birth defects, learning, and behavioral problems affecting individuals whose mothers consumed alcohol during pregnancy. Causes and symptoms. FAS is not a genetic or inherited disorder. It is a pattern of birth defects, learning, and behavioral problems that are the result of maternal alcohol use during the pregnancy. The alcohol freely crosses the placenta and causes damage to the developing embryo or fetus.
Fetal Alcohol Syndrome. Fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) is a pattern of physical and mental defects that can develop in a fetus in association with high levels of alcohol consumption during pregnancy. PubMed Health Glossary. (Source: Wikipedia). About the Brain.
Get rights and content. Fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) is currently recognized as the most common known cause of mental retardation, affecting from 1 to 3 per 1000 live-born infants. This article describes diagnostic issues, etiology, and prevalence of FAS. 
Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD) are a group of conditions that can occur in a person whose mother drank alcohol during pregnancy. Problems may include an abnormal appearance, short height, low body weight, small head, poor coordination, low intelligence, behavior problems, and problems with hearing or seeing. Fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) is the first diagnosable condition of FASD that was discovered. FAS is the only expression of FASD that has garnered consensus among experts to become an official ICD-9 and ICD-10 diagnosis.
Fetal alcohol syndrome is a condition in a child that results from alcohol exposure during the mother's pregnancy. Fetal alcohol syndrome causes brain damage and growth problems. The problems caused by fetal alcohol syndrome vary from child to child, but defects caused by fetal alcohol syndrome are irreversible. There is no amount of alcohol that's known to be safe to consume during pregnancy. If you drink during pregnancy, you place your baby at risk of fetal alcohol syndrome. If you suspect your child has fetal alcohol syndrome, talk to your doctor as soon as possible.
Symptoms. The severity of fetal alcohol syndrome symptoms varies, with some children experiencing them to a far greater degree than others. Signs and symptoms of fetal alcohol syndrome may include any mix of physical defects, intellectual or cognitive disabilities, and problems functioning and coping with daily life
Drinking alcohol during pregnancy can result in a number of physical, neurological and mental conditions that range in severity. These fall under the term “ Fetal Alcohol Spectrum Disorders (FASD),” the most known of which are Fetal Alcohol Syndrome (FAS) and Fetal Alcohol Effects (FAE) . Fetal Alcohol Syndrome is a result of high doses of alcohol consumption during pregnancy such as binge drinking and/or drinking on a regular basis.
Fetal alcohol spectrum disorders are caused by drinking alcohol during pregnancy. Surveys from the United States, have found about 10% of pregnant women have drunk in the last month and 20% to 30% drank at some point during the pregnancy. About 4% of women who are pregnant have alcohol use disorder. Fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) is the first diagnosable condition of FASD that was discovered. FAS is the only expression of FASD that has garnered consensus among experts to become an official ICD-9 and ICD-10 diagnosis.
Fetal alcohol syndrome includes physical, cognitive, and psychologicl abnormalities that result from consuming alcohol during pregnancy (no, I'm not talking about guys consuming alcohol when a woman is pregnant...geez). 