Definition of EMF-an EMF or electromagnetic field is the field or area of force caused by movement of an electrical charge and containing some amount of electromagnetic energy. Definition of EMR-Electromagnetic radiation, or electromagnetic radio frequency radiation EMFR. 1 Extremely high frequency-EHF is defined as billions of cycles per second, and is the highest radio frequency band, extending from 30 to 300 GHz. or in wavelength size, waves are 1-10 mm or millimeters, also abbreviated MMW or mmW. Microwaves are an example.
The realm of EM field energy is called the electromagnetic radiation spectrum. In theory, this extends from arbitrarily long wavelengths to arbitrarily short wavelengths, or, as engineers sometimes imprecisely quip, from DC to light.. 
Definition of ELECTROMAGNETIC RADIATION. : energy in the form of electromagnetic waves; also: a series of electromagnetic waves. See electromagnetic radiation defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Classically, electromagnetic radiation consists of electromagnetic waves, which are synchronized oscillations of electric and magnetic fields that propagate at the speed of light through a vacuum. The electromagnetic waves that compose electromagnetic radiation can be imagined as a self-propagating transverse oscillating wave of electric and magnetic fields. This diagram shows a plane linearly polarized EMR wave propagating from left to right
n. The entire range of electromagnetic radiation, which includes, in order of increasing frequency and decreasing wavelength, radio waves, microwaves, infrared radiation, visible light, ultraviolet radiation, x-rays, and gamma rays. 
The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of all possible frequencies of electromagnetic radiation. The electromagnetic spectrum of an object has a different meaning, and is instead the characteristic distribution of electromagnetic radiation emitted or absorbed by that particular object. 
By Anne Marie Helmenstine, Ph.D. Definition: Electromagnetic radiation is self sustaining energy with electric and magnetic field components. Electromagnetic radiation is commonly referred to as 'light'. Also Known As: light, EMR, EM radiation, electromagnetic waves
Definition of ELECTROMAGNETIC SPECTRUM. : the entire range of wavelengths or frequencies of electromagnetic radiation extending from gamma rays to the longest radio waves and including visible light. See electromagnetic spectrum defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Electromagnetic radiation (EM radiation or EMR) is the radiant energy released by certain electromagnetic processes. Visible light is one type of electromagnetic radiation, other familiar forms are invisible electromagnetic radiations such as radio waves, infrared light and X rays. The electromagnetic waves that compose electromagnetic radiation can be imagined as a self-propagating transverse oscillating wave of electric and magnetic fields. This diagram shows a plane linearly polarized EMR wave propagating from left to right