Mortgage Amortization 101. The mortgage amortization period is the time frame in which you have to fully pay off your mortgage loan. The amortization period can range anywhere from 6 months to 30 years, with the latter being the standard amortization period (and requiring a minimum down payment of 20%). Amortization is the time frame in which you have to pay off the loan in full, which generally ranges from 5 to 25 years in length. A mortgage amortization calculator can let you “test” a variety of scenarios, providing you with a payment schedule for each.
This calculator will figure a loan's payment amount at various payment intervals -- based on the principal amount borrowed, the length of the loan and the annual interest rate. Then, once you have computed the payment, click on the Create Amortization Schedule button to create a printable report. 
(Optional) Extra Payments. First, click on Show Amortization Schedule to use the Add Extra Payments functionality of Bankrate's mortgage calculator to find out how you can shorten your term and net big savings by paying extra money toward your loan's principal each month, every year or even just one time. You can use the mortgage calculator to determine when you'll have 20 percent equity in your home. This percentage is the magic number for requesting that a lender wave private mortgage insurance requirement.
The mortgage amortization period is different. Amortization is the time frame in which you have to pay off the loan in full, which generally ranges from 5 to 25 years in length. A mortgage amortization calculator can let you “test” a variety of scenarios, providing you with a payment schedule for each.
This calculator will compute a loan's monthly payment amount based on the principal amount borrowed, the length of the loan and the annual interest rate. Then, once you have computed the monthly payment, click on the Create Amortization Schedule button to create a report you can print out. Note that each time you change one of the loan's variables you will need to recalculate the monthly payment before creating the Amortization Schedule.
Use the Extra payments functionality of Bankrate's mortgage calculator to find out how you can shorten your term and net big savings by paying extra money toward your loan's principal each month, every year or even just one time. You can use the mortgage calculator to determine when you'll have 20 percent equity in your home. This percentage is the magic number for requesting that a lender wave private mortgage insurance requirement.
Mortgage Amortization. Choosing the length of your amortization period, which means the number of years you will need to pay off your mortgage, is an important decision that can affect how much interest you pay over the life of your mortgage. Historically, the standard amortization period has been 25 years. 
Both, mortgage term and amortization are associated with the payment process in regards to your loan. Like with other important mortgage terms, it is important to know the difference between “term” and “amortization” so you can better understand the mortgage process. Amortization is the time frame in which you have to pay off the loan in full, which generally ranges from 5 to 25 years in length. A mortgage amortization calculator can let you “test” a variety of scenarios, providing you with a payment schedule for each.
Amortization Schedule Calculator. This mortgage loan calculator-also known as an amortization schedule calculator-lets you estimate your monthly loan repayments. It also determines out how much of your repayments will go towards the principal and how much will go towards interest. 
The amortization period on a mortgage is the total length of time it will take you to pay off your mortgage. If your down payment is less than 20 percent of the purchase price of your home, the longest amortization period allowed is 25 years. 