Having excessive phlegm can be a very bothersome problem and may lead to hours of unrelenting, constant throat clearing and coughing. For some people, this is a temporary problem that lasts as long as the infection that causes it. 1 Drink plenty of water to loosen the phlegm and help wash down any phlegm that gets deposited in the throat. 2  Go to a physiotherapist. 3  There are a number of breathing techniques and stretching exercises that they can teach you that will help loosen and expel excessive phlegm.
Many of us may wonder what the exact causes of phlegm in throat are, often considering it to be an underlying problem of a deeper cause. However, phlegm is always present in the body and only becomes a concern when there is an overproduction of it. 1 In such cases, phlegm is also mixed with saliva. 2  In case you are coughing up phlegm that is brown, you may also notice that it is grainy in texture. 3  This means that dust and some other foreign matter are mixed with the phlegm. 4  This is often caused by damage to cilia, which generally happens with COPD patients.
While chronic phlegm does become a serious cause for worry for many, the truth is that there are a number of reasons for phlegm or excessive mucus in throat. For some, it may just be a case of morning reflux, with no excessive production of flem during the rest of the day. Removing the root cause is the most effective way to reduce phlegm in throat. 1  Avoiding things that trigger phlegm formation in the throat such as smoking and irritants in the air (by avoiding places that are dust prone), and trying not to not strain the vocal cords by screaming or yelling helps reduce excess phlegm.
Phlegm is a thick, slippery and sticky substance produced by the throat, bronchial passages, and lungs. Phlegm, also called sputum, contains mucus and sometimes other substances, such as dead cells, pus, or foreign particles, including dust. 
Throat mucus, also known as phlegm, can be described as that uncomfortable feeling that you experience when mucus clogs up your throat or drips from the back of your nose. The glands of your throat and nose produce about 1 to 2 liters of mucus per day. Clearing your throat will help the phlegm loosen or break up in the back of the throat, giving way to the uncomfortable feeling. Mucus problems can be a nuisance, but there are some simple ways to remedy it.
Phlegm is a mucus-like substance produced by the lower airways, such as the lungs and the respiratory system leading to the lungs, not by the nose and sinuses, which produce the mucus that streams out of or clogs up your nose. You may not notice phlegm unless you cough it up as a symptom of bronchitis or pneumonia. As is the case with mucus, phlegm that has a color such as green or yellow may indicate infection. Any time you see blood in the phlegm you cough up, you should seek medical attention. 3. 1 Post-nasal drip (thick mucus). 2  Take an expectorant (this thins mucus and phlegm), drink lots of fluids, breathe through a warm washcloth, and use steam to make the mucus more liquid. 3  Congestion (blocked nose).
Chemotherapy also causes the immune system to overreact and excessive phlegm is often the result. Food allergies are known to cause excessive phlegm and certain types of food such as dairy products cause a thickening of mucous. Postnasal drip also commonly causes excess mucus at the back of your nose and throat many times after eating. 1 Drink plenty of water to loosen the phlegm and help wash down any phlegm that gets deposited in the throat. 2  Go to a physiotherapist. 3  There are a number of breathing techniques and stretching exercises that they can teach you that will help loosen and expel excessive phlegm.
Mucus in the throat all the time is an annoying condition and the causes are the same as that of post nasal drip. Causes: Phlegm is produced as a result of an infection, an irritation to the throat, or a consequence of a serious disease or condition. Listed below are some of the causes of phlegm in adults and in children. Removing the root cause is the most effective way to reduce phlegm in throat. 1  Avoiding things that trigger phlegm formation in the throat such as smoking and irritants in the air (by avoiding places that are dust prone), and trying not to not strain the vocal cords by screaming or yelling helps reduce excess phlegm.
1 Cold or Flu: During a cold or the flu, there is a production of clear, thin mucus in the nose and back of the throat. 2  When the body starts to react to the virus, the once thin mucus thickens and turns yellow or green. 3  This is one of the noticeable symptoms of the cold or flu virus. Clearing your throat will help the phlegm loosen or break up in the back of the throat, giving way to the uncomfortable feeling. Mucus problems can be a nuisance, but there are some simple ways to remedy it.
There are various home remedies that you can try to eliminate mucus in the throat. 1  Post Nasal Drip: Post nasal drip occurs when an excessive amount of mucus accumulation in the nose and throat creates phlegm and causes coughing. Clearing your throat will help the phlegm loosen or break up in the back of the throat, giving way to the uncomfortable feeling. Mucus problems can be a nuisance, but there are some simple ways to remedy it.