An associate professor position is one step higher than an assistant professor, and often includes tenure for job security and increased freedom. Take a look at the following chart for an overview of how to enter the field. Explore the career requirements for associate professors. Get the facts about duties, education requirements, professional licensure, salaries and the employment outlook to determine if this is the right field for you.
Typically, within about seven years an assistant professor will either be promoted to associate professor or will leave the university, although the timing can vary a little and it's theoretically possible to remain an assistant professor forever. An associate professor is one step up from an assistant professor. This promotion is usually the same as getting tenure, but not always. (Some universities, like MIT, frequently have non-tenured associate professors.) The final step for most faculty is a full professorship. There is no assistant professor. In this academic ranking system associate professor is a high ranking. I think that both associate professor and professor in Australia would correspond roughly to professor in the United States.
The label of associate professor typically refers to a professor who is tenured. Associate professor is an intermediate rank, between assistant professors and full professors. Like all other professors, the associate professor participates in the three sets of duties that come with a career in academia: teaching, research, and service.
A professor, informally often known as full professor, is the highest academic rank at universities and other post-secondary education and research institutions in most countries. In some countries, the word professor is also used in titles of lower ranks such as associate professor and assistant professor. Professors conduct original research and commonly teach undergraduate, graduate, and/or professional courses in their field of expertise.
There are typically three ranks for faculty within U.S. higher education institutions: Assistant Professor, Associate Professor, and Full Professor. Promotion from one to the next involves a formal process of evaluation of the faculty member's body of work. Typically, faculty begin the path toward tenure as an Assistant Professor and their probationary period may be around six years (depending on the institution and other circumstances, such as previous academic positions or whether the faculty member has taken a leave of absence).
Answers. Best Answer: They are simply ranks within the system. An assistant prof is a newbie professor who often does not have tenure but is working on it. In a research university, their duties are typically to teach, produce substantial academic research, and possibly community outreach. WHAT you need to do to become an assistant professor (then associate, then full professor) depends on the focus of the university. Almost invariably, to become an assistant professor you must have completed a PhD and post-doctoral fellowship.
In a typical university in the United States : An assistant professor is an entry-level faculty member. They are generally on the tenure track (although the term assistant professor does not guarantee this) but do not have tenure yet. There is no assistant professor. In this academic ranking system associate professor is a high ranking. I think that both associate professor and professor in Australia would correspond roughly to professor in the United States.
Most assistant professors do not yet have tenure associate professor: An Associate Professor is the second level full-time position for college and university instructors who have a Ph.D. Unlike the entry-level full-time position with a Ph.D., called an assistant professor, Associate Professors have tenure. Associate Professors have more administrative responsibilities. They're able to serve on boards and committees whose membership is restricted to tenured faculty. Answers. Best Answer: assistant professor, : Definition: An entry-level faculty position. Most colleges require a doctoral degree although some community colleges may hire master's level graduates. An assistant professor is nobody's assistant; instead she or he is a professor at the lowest rung of the promotion ladder.
Adjunct and Associate Professor are designations you may have heard in colleges. When we are in a college, we often come across designations of teachers that are very confusing. There are lecturers, assistant professors, associate professors, adjunct professors, and of course there are professors. 
Associate professor (frequently capitalized as Associate Professor) is an academic title that can have different meanings. In North America and universities elsewhere using the North American system, it is a position between assistant professor and a full professorship. In a number of Commonwealth countries, the title, associate professor, is often used in place of reader, which is used in the United Kingdom and a number of other Commonwealth universities.