Pseudogout has many similarities to true gout, which also can cause arthritis. However, the crystal that incites the inflammation of gout is monosodium urate. The crystals that cause pseudogout and gout each have distinct appearances when joint fluid containing them is viewed under a microscope. Acute attacks of the arthritis of pseudogout can be caused by dehydration. This is particularly common in hospitalized patients and those recovering from operations, especially when associated with dehydration. Pseudogout can also be caused by the hormonal effects on calcium metabolism from hyperparathyroidism.
Find synonyms Find exact match. PSEUDOGOUT DEFINITION. Pseudogout is a form of arthritis that causes sudden attacks of joint pain and swelling. The prefix pseudo means appearing like something else; the term “pseudogout” is commonly used because the symptoms of the disorder are very similar to those caused by gout. 
Causes. Pseudogout has been linked to the presence of calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate crystals within the affected joint. These crystals become more numerous as people age, appearing in nearly half the population older than age 85. But most people who have these crystal deposits never develop pseudogout. 
In this article. Pseudogout is a form of arthritis that causes pain, stiffness, tenderness, redness, warmth, and swelling in some joints. It can affect one or several joints at once. Pseudogout commonly affects the knee or wrist. Less often, it can involve the hips, shoulders, elbows, finger joints, toes, or ankles. The symptoms of pseudogout are similar to those of other diseases, especially gout, which is caused by a buildup of uric acid. They also mimic those of rheumatoid arthritis or osteoarthritis. Symptoms include: 1  Sudden, intense joint pain. 2  Swollen joint that's warm to the touch. 3  Red or purple skin around the joint.
Pseudogout is caused by the formation of calcium pyrophosphate crystals in the synovial fluid in the joints. Crystals can also deposit in the cartilage, where they can cause damage. Pseudogout most often affects the knees, but also affects ankles, wrists, and elbows. General symptoms may include: 1  periodic episodes of joint pain. 2  swelling of the affected joint.
Pseudogout, also known as calcium pyrophosphate deposition (CPPD) disease, is a type of arthritis that causes spontaneous, painful swelling in your joints. This condition most commonly affects the knees, but it can also affect the ankles, elbows, and wrists. Pseudogout most often affects the knees, but also affects ankles, wrists, and elbows. General symptoms may include: 1  periodic episodes of joint pain. 2  swelling of the affected joint.
Pseudogout is a type of inflammation of joints (arthritis) that is caused by deposits of crystals, called calcium pyrophosphate, in and around the joints. Pseudogout literally means false gout .. It derives its name from its similarity to gout. Acute attacks of the arthritis of pseudogout can be caused by dehydration. This is particularly common in hospitalized patients and those recovering from operations, especially when associated with dehydration. Pseudogout can also be caused by the hormonal effects on calcium metabolism from hyperparathyroidism.
To research the causes of Pseudogout, consider researching the causes of these these diseases that may be similar, or associated with Pseudogout: 1  Calcium pyrophosphate disease. 2  CPPD. 3  Peripheral arthritis. 4  Sodium urate crystals. 5  Monosodium urate monohydrate crystals. 6  MSU crystals. 7  Calcium pyrophosphate crystals. 