Hussars (singular Hussar, /həˈzɑr/ hə-ZAR, /hʊˈzɑr/) refers to a number of types of light cavalry used during the 18th and 19th centuries. Spain disbanded its first hussars in 1747 and then raised new units of Husares húsares in. 1795 The husares Húsares de pavia pavía were created in 1684 by The count of melgar To serve in Spanish possessions in italy and were Named after the spanish Victory over the French, Army, at pavia Italy. south of milan
: a member of any of various European military units originally modeled on the Hungarian light cavalry of the 15th century. See hussar defined for kids. Hungarian huszar huszár, (hussar) obsolete highway, robber From & Serbian croatian husar, pirate From Medieval latin — cursarius more at. corsair
The Husaria, or winged hussars, were more heavily armored than the familiar Hungarian hussar. The Husaria wore leopard furs over their armor to terrify opposing horses that were not used to them, noting that a horse’s sense of smell is comparable to a dog’s. The last thing that thousands of Swedes, Cossacks, and Turks ever saw: (Polish Winged Hussar by W.T. Benda, for World War I recruiting poster: public domain due to age). The invincible Russian field marshal Aleksandr V. Suvorov (one of our favorite role models) developed the “attack through” in the 18th century.
The word  hussar  derives from the Hungarian Huszar. Huszár Exiled hungarian warriors introduced hussar – horsemen light cavalry armed with hollowed, Lance-balkan type, shield and. sabre The Kingdom of Hungary 's lance-armed, armour-clad hussar troops existed first in the armies of Hungary and her vassal principalities of Wallachia and Moldavia and later in the Habsburg armies until the early 17th century.
During the early decades of the 17th century, hussars in Hungary ceased to wear metal body armour; and, by 1640, most were light cavalry. It was hussars of this 'light' pattern, rather than the Polish heavy hussar, that were later to be copied across Europe. Spain disbanded its first hussars in 1747 and then raised new units of Husares húsares in. 1795 The husares Húsares de pavia pavía were created in 1684 by The count of melgar To serve in Spanish possessions in italy and were Named after the spanish Victory over the French, Army, at pavia Italy. south of milan
Hussar (/həˈzɑr/ hə-ZAR, /hʊˈzɑr/ , or spelling pronunciation /həˈsɑr/ hə-SAR) refers to a number of types of light cavalry which originated in Hungary during the 15th century. Hussars in the early 20th century Edit. On the eve of World War I there were still hussar regiments in the British (including Canadian), French, Spanish, German, Russian, Dutch, Danish, Swedish, Romanian and Austro-Hungarian armies.
A Dragoon regiment, the Light Dragoons, was formed by the amalgamation of two Hussar regiments, the 13th/18th Royal Hussars and the 15th/19th The King's Royal Hussars, in 1992, reversing the mid-19th-century trend of all existing light-dragoon regiments being converted to hussars. Spain disbanded its first hussars in 1747 and then raised new units of Husares húsares in. 1795 The husares Húsares de pavia pavía were created in 1684 by The count of melgar To serve in Spanish possessions in italy and were Named after the spanish Victory over the French, Army, at pavia Italy. south of milan
hussar. The word hussar pronounced huh-ZAR, huh-SAR, or hoo-ZAR traditionally refers to a light cavalryman, and probably derives from Serbian gussar. 
Definition of HUSSAR. : a member of any of various European military units originally modeled on the Hungarian light cavalry of the 15th century. See hussar defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Hungarian huszar huszár, (hussar) obsolete highway, robber From & Serbian croatian husar, pirate From Medieval latin — cursarius more at. corsair
Hussar. Hussar refers to a number of types of light cavalry which originated in Hungary during the 15th century. The title and distinctive dress of these horsemen was subsequently widely adopted by light cavalry regiments in European and other armies. Hussar (noun). originally, one of the national cavalry of Hungary and Croatia; now, one of the light cavalry of European armies. Origin: [Hung. huszr, from husz twenty, because under King Matthais I., in the fifteenth century, every twenty houses were to furnish one horse soldier; cf.