Primates and horses have armpits that sweat like those of humans. Although sweating is found in a wide variety of mammals, relatively few (exceptions include humans and horses) produce large amounts of sweat in order to cool down. Maximum sweat rates of an adult can be up to 2–4 liters per hour or 10–14 liters per day (10–15 g/min•m²), but is less in children prior to puberty. Evaporation of sweat from the skin surface has a cooling effect due to evaporative cooling.
Two types of sweat glands can be found in humans: eccrine glands and apocrine glands. The eccrine sweat glands are distributed over much of the body. In humans, sweating is primarily a means of thermoregulation which is achieved by the water-rich secretion of the eccrine glands. Maximum sweat rates of an adult can be up to 2–4 liters per hour or 10–14 liters per day (10–15 g/min•m²), but is less in children prior to puberty. Evaporation of sweat from the skin surface has a cooling effect due to evaporative cooling.
Therefore, it makes sense that the main component of perspiration is water. However, perspiration also plays a role in excretion of toxins and waste products. Sweat is chemically similar to the plasma, but certain components are selectively retained or excreted. The chemical composition of perspiration varies between individuals and also depends on what they have been eating and drinking, why they are sweating, how long they have been perspiring and several other factors.
Your body is equipped with a very efficient air-conditioning system: 2.6 million sweat glands that cover nearly every inch of your body, and lots of ductwork. You can produce up to 6 pints (3 liters) of sweat an hour, though you probably top out at 2 pints (1 liter) an hour unless you live in a hot environment. This is great if you're overheated, and not so great if you're walking through the parking lot to a job interview.
Probl. Dermatol., 30, 1-9. Sweating is an essential and natural biological process that starts soon after we are born. Sweating, or perspiring, is the body’s mechanism of keeping us cool and preventing us from overheating in a warm environment or during exercise or exertion. Our body also produces sweat when we experience strong emotions or stressful situations, during hormonal changes and it helps to play a role in fighting infections. Normally our bodies produce almost 1 litre of sweat per day, however most of this evaporates as soon as it is produced so we don’t notice it. The body produces more sweat during exercise or in warmer environments in order to help cool us down.
Sweat is produced by sweat glands in the body, which produce a watery fluid and fluid containing substances such as proteins and lipids. Sweat produced from the apocrine gland is thought to be linked to the production of chemical communication signals or pheromones. The apocrine glands are situated close to the hair follicle and the secreted sweat fluid contains proteins, lipids and hormones, but very little water.1.
Perspiration, also known as sweating or diaphoresis, is the production of fluids secreted by the sweat glands in the skin of mammals. Maximum sweat rates of an adult can be up to 2–4 liters per hour or 10–14 liters per day (10–15 g/min•m²), but is less in children prior to puberty. Evaporation of sweat from the skin surface has a cooling effect due to evaporative cooling.
Perspiration, or sweat, is your body's way of cooling itself, whether that extra heat comes from hardworking muscles or from overstimulated nerves. In this article, we will examine your body's sweat glands, how sweat is made and what it does. You will learn that there is difference between the sweat on your palms and the sweat in your armpits and why your skin tastes salty after a workout! The average person has 2.6 million sweat glands in their skin. 
Sweating is the primary mechanism by which the human body regulates its temperature. It occurs during waking and sleeping. Sweat glands secrete sweat in response to nervous stimuli, primarily heat stimuli, but also emotional and gustatory (food) stimuli. Introduction to sweating. Sweat is a clear, odourless solution secreted by sweat glands, which are also known as sudoriferous glands. It is hypotonic, meaning that it has a lower concentration of electrolytes than the cells of the sweat glands.