[news]. Also just for clarity-its is just a hash. A hashtag is a hash with a tag word next to it, used in twitter etc, e.g. #keyboardgoo. 
Unlike the Windows keyboard, the # sign isn’t listed on the Mac and this can make it tricky when you want to join in group conversations. You can always retweet and edit someone else’s comment so you get the hashtag, but that’s a really convoluted route. Here’s a simple, tweet-length, solution. 
On your keyboard and press the button 3 in the upper part of your keyboard.... 0. 0. Ahahaha,, just try to press the button shift on your keyboard and press the button 3 in the upper part of your keyboard. That`s how you can use hashtag when you want to highlight something. 0. 0. Try using the button next to the @ sign on the right hand side of your keyboard-that`s where the hashtag usually is! source: I can`t find my hashtag button.
In your system settings you have a Keyboard section where there is an option to change the layout of the keyboard. Make sure that the layout selected corresponds to the layout of your physical keyboard. share | improve this answer. 
On your keyboard and press the button 3 in the upper part of your keyboard.... 0. 0. Ahahaha,, just try to press the button shift on your keyboard and press the button 3 in the upper part of your keyboard. That`s ... read more. You will find the answer here, just point the buttons with the mouse http://symbols.typeit.org/ ...
HashKey is an idea for a tiny one-key keyboard that only does one thing: Slaps that #hashtag onto your #Twitter #mentions instantly. And it does it without the pain or turmoil of endless shift-holding while you hunt through your keyboard for the hidden hashtagging key (pssssssst, it's over the 3). Think how much time we can save as a society if we don't have to press two keys to make a proper hashtag! Think how many MORE tweets we can post!!!
my laptop is a toshiba with an english keyboard that does not have a hashtag sign and pressing shift and 3 does not work ! Add your answer. Source. Submit Cancel. I think this question violates the Community Guidelines. I think this question violates the Terms of Service. 
Alt 0128 € Euro currency symbol. When you get the UK keyboard and you need to contribute your 2 cents instead of pence: Alt 0162 or Alt 155 ¢ Cent. You can use the Windows Character Map included with Windows or a helpful guide such as the table at http://www.forlang.wsu.edu/help/keyboards.asp. 
Then you’ll love the HashKey, a new Kickstarter project to add a dedicated hashtag key to your computer via a USB accessory. From the Kickstarter page: HashKey is a unique one-key keyboard dedicated solely to the awesome hashtag. 