Spelman College, a historically Black Women’s College/University (HBCU), is one of the most prestigious HBCU’s in the United States. Founded by Sophia Packard and Harriet Giles, Spelman boasts a 78% graduation rate, a very stringent acceptance rate (38% of all applicants annually), and a hefty price tag. The school was renamed Spelman Seminary in honor of Laura Spelman-Rockefeller (John D. Rockefeller’s wife) and her parents Harvey Buel and Lucy Henry Spelman, who were staunch activists in the antislavery movement. It became Spelman College in 1924. 2.
Spelman was founded in 1881 as Atlanta Baptist Female Seminary by Sophia B. Packard and Harriet E. Giles. The name was changed in 1884 to Spelman Seminary in honor of Mrs. Laura Spelman Rockefeller and her parents Harvey Buel and Lucy Henry Spelman, longtime activists in the antislavery movement. 
Spelman College is a four-year liberal arts women's college located in Atlanta, Georgia, United States. The college is part of the Atlanta University Center academic consortium in Atlanta. Founded in 1881 as the Atlanta Baptist Female Seminary, Spelman was the fourth historically black female institution of higher education to receive its collegiate charter in 1924. Forbes ranks Spelman among the nation's top ten best women's colleges. Spelman has been ranked the #1 regional college in the South by U.S. News & World Report and is ranked among the Best 373 Colleges and Universities in America by the Princeton Review.
Profile. Spelman College is a private women’s liberal arts college in Atlanta, GA. Established in 1881, it is one of the nation’s oldest historically black colleges for women. 
PLAY AUDIO. Spelman College was founded on April 11, 1881 by two teachers in the basement of Friendship Baptist Church in Atlanta, GA. After money is gifted from John D. Rockefeller, the seminary for teachers is moved to its current grounds
Spelman is often reckoned as the Radcliffe, Wellesley or Smith of the African-American world. It has a longstanding relationship with all-male Morehouse College. In 1881, both Morehouse and Spelman students were studying in the basement of Atlanta's Friendship Baptist Church. Forbes ranks Spelman among the nation's top ten best women's colleges. Spelman has been ranked the #1 regional college in the South by U.S. News & World Report and is ranked among the Best 373 Colleges and Universities in America by the Princeton Review.
Spelman College. Spelman College is a four-year liberal arts women’s college located in Atlanta, Georgia, United States. The college is part of the Atlanta University Center academic consortium in Atlanta. Founded in 1881 as the Atlanta Baptist Female Seminary, Spelman was the first historically black female institution of higher education to receive its collegiate charter in 1924. 
Spelman College was founded on April 11, 1881, when two teachers, Sophia Packers and Harriet Giles, from Boston, Massachusetts, began to teach 11 black women in the basement of Friendship Baptist Church in Atlanta. It was then known as the Atlanta Baptist Female Seminary. Spelman College is a private, historically black college for women, based in Atlanta, Georgia. The four-year, liberal arts college is an integral part of the Atlanta University Center, a cluster of six black colleges and universities.
Spelman College Entrance. Spelman College's history began on April 11, 1881. With the help of Frank Quarles, pastor of Atlanta 's Friendship Baptist Church, Sophia B. Packard and Harriet E. Giles, schoolteachers and Baptist missionaries from New England, started a school in the church's basement. 
Summary. Spelman College is a private institution that was founded in 1881. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 2,135, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 39 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar. Spelman College's ranking in the 2016 edition of Best Colleges is National Liberal Arts Colleges, 72. 