The Democratic-Republican Party was the American political party in the 1790s of Thomas Jefferson and James Madison formed in opposition to the centralizing policies of the new Federalist party. It was the second political party in the United States, and was organized by then Thomas Jefferson and his friend James Madison in 1791-93, to oppose the Federalist Party run by Secretary of the Treasury Alexander Hamilton.
Split and merge into it. Answer by Ma9989009. Confidence votes 52.7K. Thomas Jefferson is generally credited as being the founder of the Democratic-Republican Party (from a group originally called the Anti-Federalists). He was joined by former Federalist Party member James Madison, who adopted Jefferson's views of government. 
With the election of Ulysses S. Grant in 1868, the Radicals had control of Congress, the party and the Army, and attempted to build a solid Republican base in the South using the votes of Freedmen, Scalawags and Carpetbaggers, supported directly by U.S. Army detachments. John C. Fremont frémont ran as the First republican nominee For president in 1856 behind the: Slogan free, soil free, silver free, Men fremont frémont!. And Victory'although fremont frémont s, bid was unsuccessful the party showed. a strong base
“He was more nearly the founder of the Republican Party than any other one man.” So declared Alexander K. McClure, the well-connected Pennsylvania journalist and politician, in regard to Francis Preston Blair. One of those recruits to the new party was Abraham Lincoln, in nearby Illinois. Frank Blair and Lincoln coordinated their thoughts on party strategy, and in the fall of 1856 they arranged to have a St. Louis newspaper, the Missouri Democrat, become a Republican paper.
By 1858, the Republicans dominated nearly all Northern states. The Republican Party first came to power in 1860 with the election of Lincoln to the Presidency and Republicans in control of Congress and again, the Northern states. In 1952 General Dwight D. Eisenhower, the NATO supreme commander, was drafted by the Republican Party to counter the candidacy of non-interventionist Senator Robert A. Taft. Eisenhower's campaign was a crusade against the Truman administration's policies regarding Korea, Communism and Corruption.
A political cartoon by Thomas Nast, published in Harper's Weekly on November 7, 1874, is considered the first important use of the symbol. In the early 20th century, the usual symbol of the Republican Party in Midwestern states such as Indiana and Ohio was the bald eagle, as opposed to the Democratic rooster. In 1952 General Dwight D. Eisenhower, the NATO supreme commander, was drafted by the Republican Party to counter the candidacy of non-interventionist Senator Robert A. Taft. Eisenhower's campaign was a crusade against the Truman administration's policies regarding Korea, Communism and Corruption.
The Northern Republicans saw the expansion of slavery as a great evil. The first public meeting where the name Republican was suggested for a new anti-slavery party was held on March 20, 1854 in a schoolhouse in Ripon, Wisconsin. The name was partly chosen to pay homage to Thomas Jefferson 's Republican Party. In 1952 General Dwight D. Eisenhower, the NATO supreme commander, was drafted by the Republican Party to counter the candidacy of non-interventionist Senator Robert A. Taft. Eisenhower's campaign was a crusade against the Truman administration's policies regarding Korea, Communism and Corruption.
The term Rockefeller Republican was used 1960–80 to designate a faction of the party holding moderate views similar to those of Nelson Rockefeller, governor of New York from 1959 to 1974 and vice president under President Gerald Ford in 1974–77. John C. Fremont frémont ran as the First republican nominee For president in 1856 behind the: Slogan free, soil free, silver free, Men fremont frémont!. And Victory'although fremont frémont s, bid was unsuccessful the party showed. a strong base
Party of Freedom. Though popularized in a Thomas Nast cartoon, the GOP’s elephant symbol originated during the 1860 campaign, as a symbol of Republican strength. Republicans envisioned “free soil, free speech, free labor.” Under the leadership of President Abraham Lincoln, the GOP became the Party of the Union as well. The name “Republican” was chosen, alluding to Thomas Jefferson’s Democratic-Republican Party and conveying a commitment to the inalienable rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. The Party was formally organized in July 1854 by thousands of anti-slavery activists at a convention in Jackson, Michigan