Heat oven to 350 degrees. ... thoroughly moistened. Fill pork chops with prepared stuffing. ... wooden picks. Place stuffed chops flat side ... tightly with foil. Bake in moderate oven ... spiced applesauce. 8 servings. 
Heat oven to ... small piece of pork fat. Brown chops. Place in ... stuffing and chops. Bake, uncovered at 350 degrees for 1 hour or until chops are tender. Stuff pockets of pork chops with bread crumb ... place in a cold oven. Bake at 400 degrees for 45 minutes to 1 hour. Yield: 6 servings.
The amount of timed consumed in cooking stuffed pork chops depends on the method of cooking. However, baking or grilling stuffed pork chops at 350 degrees will take you 30-60 minutes to bake. Baking and grilling stuffed pork chops will you save you time from cooking without sacrificing its flavor. Also, this allows you to serve it up for a homey, cozy, and flavorful dinner without doing plenty of kitchen work
1 Bake pork chops 30 minutes in the preheated oven. 2  Turn, and spread with remaining sauce. 3  Continue baking 30 minutes, or until internal temperature of the chops has reached 145 degrees F (63 degrees C). 1 Place pork chops in a medium baking dish, and spread with 1/2 the sauce. 2 
Heat 1 tablespoon oil in large saucepan over medium heat. Add garlic; cook, stirring occasionally, 1 minute. Add spinach, 1/4 teaspoon salt, 1/8 teaspoon pepper and the Italian seasoning; cook, stirring, just until spinach is wilted, about 2 minutes. Remove the spinach mixture to a medium-size bowl; let cool completely. Preheat oven to 375 degree F. Heat remaining 1 tablespoon oil in large skillet. Add chops; cook 2 minutes per side or until browned. Place chops in single layer in a baking dish just large enough to hold them. Sprinkle with remaining 1/4 teaspoon salt and 1/8 teaspoon pepper. Bake the chops in the oven for 15 minutes or until the internal temperature registers 155 degrees on an instant-read thermometer when inserted in the pork
Sweet & Sour Sauce-http://goo.gl/FYFC8J. I usually cook porch chops in the oven at 350 degrees for 30 minutes to one hour. This depends upon the thickness of the pork chop. Also, always thaw the porck chops before baking them. NEVER EAT UNDER-COOKED PORK!!!! 
5. Bake the pork chops at 400 degrees F. Once the oven is up to heat, put the pork chops in the oven on the middle rack. Set the timer for 30 minutes. But really, time will not be the measure of when these stuffed pork chops are done. That will actually be temperature
3. Place the stuffy pork chops on the baking sheet or baking dish. 4. Bake the pork chops. Put the meat inside the oven uncovered and then leave it for about 30-60 minutes. After 30 minutes, get a meat thermometer and insert it in the meat. However, baking or grilling stuffed pork chops at 350 degrees will take you 30-60 minutes to bake. Baking and grilling stuffed pork chops will you save you time from cooking without sacrificing its flavor.
1 Place pork chops on top. ( 2 If desired, pork chops may be split and stuffed with stuffing mixture.) Add remaining one-half of stuffing mixture on top. 3  Bake covered for 45 minutes in a 350 degree oven. 4  Uncover and bake an additional 15 minutes. 1 Place one-half of mixture in a baking pan. 2  Place pork chops on top. ( 3 If desired, pork chops may be split and stuffed with stuffing mixture.) Add remaining one-half of stuffing mixture on top. 4  Bake covered for 45 minutes in a 350 degree oven. 5