To become a gynecologist, a bachelor 's degree and doctor of medicine degree (MD) is needed. They must complete a 4 year residency program in gynecology including at least 1 year internship. Gynecologists who choose to focus on a sub-specialty usually complete up to 3 years of additional residency training. To become a gynecologist earning a good salary, medical training is required. Browse below to find information abut gynecologist schools and degree programs. Gynecology is a division of the medical field that specializes in the health and treatment related to the reproductive systems of females.
A career as an obstetrician/ gynecologist requires you to obtain a typical medical doctor education at a four year undergraduate college or university, followed by four years of medical school, and three to eight years of residency in obstetrics and gynecology. This residency normally lasts between four and five years. Persons, who are interested in becoming an obstetrician/gynecologist, must complete four years of undergraduate school at an accredited college or university, four years of medical school specializing in obstetrics and gynecology, and a three to eight year internship and residency in a hospital setting.
Training. After completing an MD degree and matching to an OB/GYN program successfully, residents must complete a four-year residency-training program. During this time residents will earn a relatively low salary ($45,000 annually) and care for patients under the supervision of more senior physicians. Salary. During residency training, an OB/GYN’s annual salary may range from $45,000 to $60,000. Salary will increase with each year of training. After residency is completed, the starting salary is generally between $200,000 and $250,000 per year.
Confidence votes 1.9K. It requires 4 years of college, 4 years of medical school and, 4 years of residency, for a total of 12. The salary is is more than $250k/year. Fellowships exist that allow gynecologists to sub-specialize in topics such as Reproductive Medicine or Fertility Medicine. These may be an additional 1-4 years of training
As soon as you decide you want to be a gynecologist, it's important to start preparing right away, even as early as high school. Excellence in academics will be important to the pursuit of your goals from that point forward. To practice gynecology, you need to complete a medical degree. Preparation for this degree begins before medical school, however. Undergraduate premedical studies are important to your future success. While you can major in any field, there are some science prerequisites that all medical schools require
Gynecologists are medical doctors with advanced training in their specialty. Gynecologists, medical doctors specializing in the reproductive health of women, must complete at least 12 years of school and training after high school. To practice gynecology, you need to complete a medical degree. Preparation for this degree begins before medical school, however. Undergraduate premedical studies are important to your future success. While you can major in any field, there are some science prerequisites that all medical schools require