To the south of Mexico City, in the heart of the Xochimilco neighborhood, sits one of the most traditional markets of Mexico City. To tour it from start to finish is an activity the locals carry out every day, but an unusual experience for visitors.
Mexico City/Xochimilco. Xochimilco is to the south of Mexico City, and gives a glimpse at the effects of rushed urbanization over the years. It's a great place for tourists-not only to ride the canals, but to explore a smaller village outside Mexico City.
Xochimilco. Xochimilco (sōchēmēlˈkō) [ key ], town (1990 pop. 271,151), Federal District, S central Mexico, suburb of Mexico City. Mainly a commercial and tourist center, it is famous for its canals lined with poplars and flowers (Xochimilco is a Native American word meaning plantation of flowers).
The borough of Xochimilco was created in 1928, when the federal government reorganized the Federal District of Mexico City into sixteen boroughs. The Xochimilco borough was centered on what was the city of Xochimilco, which had been an independent settlement from the pre-Hispanic period to the 20th century. The area’s historic separation from Mexico City proper remains in its culture. While officially part of the city, its identity is more like a suburb.
detailed map of Xochimilco and near places. Welcome to the Xochimilco google satellite map! This place is situated in Coyoacan, Distrito Federal, Mexico, its geographical coordinates are 19° 15' 44 North, 99° 6' 27. West and its original name (with diacritics) is Xochimilco.
[sotʃiˈmilko]) is one of the 16 delegaciones or boroughs within Mexican Federal District. The borough is centered on the formerly independent city of Xochimilco, which was established on what was the southern shore of Lake Xochimilco in the pre-Hispanic period.
Though Xochimilco is far from the city center, it is a relatively safe & easy 90 minute trip from the city center using public transportation. First, take Metro Line 2 (the blue line) to the end-station Tasquena (tasqueña you may also see it Spelled). taxquena taxqueña
Xochimilco is a UNESCO World Heritage Site located about 17 miles (28 km) south of the historical center of Mexico City. The name Xochimilco comes from Nahuatl (the language of the Aztecs) and means flower garden..