Step 2. Multiply the number of weeks per year by 40, the number of hours per week, to find the number of hours worked per year. In this example, multiply 40 by 52 to find the total hours for the year equals 2,080. Related Reading: How to Calculate the Hourly Rate of Pay for Time and a Half. Step 3. To figure an hourly wage from an annual salary, you need to know the number of hours worked per year. Step 1. Add the number of weeks your employee works plus the number of weeks of paid vacation to find the total number of weeks worked.
2. Add hours to your calculation if you work overtime. For overtime pay, multiply the number of overtime hours you worked by the rate you receive for additional work, and then add this total to your yearly salary. 1  Your overtime hours can be either paid or unpaid depending on your position. Once you have these two numbers, you can divide your totally yearly income by your total number of yearly hours to reach an approximate hourly wage. 1  For example, if your total income was $15,000 and your total number of hours was 2,080, then 15,000 / 2,080 = approximately $7.21 per hour.
40 hours. day. hourly pay =. amount earned รท. 8 hours. Note: This calculator does not calculate monthly salary based on a 4 week month. Some people define a month as 4 weeks. Note: This calculator assumes a work week consists of 40 hours and a work day consists of 8 hours. This calculator converts a salary (daily, weekly, monthly, yearly) to an equivalent hourly wage. In other words, it determines how much you will be paid per hour given the amount paid and the time period.
You can figure out your hourly rate based on an annual income, for a more accurate figure, or you find your hourly rate for a specific job or time period. 1  For example, if you get paid by the job or project, you may just want to keep track of the hours for that project to determine your hourly rate for that job. Once you have these two numbers, you can divide your totally yearly income by your total number of yearly hours to reach an approximate hourly wage. 1  For example, if your total income was $15,000 and your total number of hours was 2,080, then 15,000 / 2,080 = approximately $7.21 per hour.
Description: This calculator converts a salary (daily, weekly, monthly, yearly) to an equivalent hourly wage. In other words, it determines how much you will be paid per hour given the amount paid and the time period. The following table explains how the solutions are calculated.
Salary to Hourly Conversions. Divide your gross income by your total work hours to convert your salary to an hourly wage. For example, if your gross salary is $41,600 per year and you worked 2,080 during that time, then your hourly wage is $20. If you got a raise or you can't find the number on your work documents, contact the human resources department to request your annual salary. Use your gross income -- salary before taxes are withdrawn -- to convert your wages to an hourly rate. You can also use your paychecks to determine
ConvertUnits.com provides a tool you can use to calculate the equivalent hourly wage based on your annual salary. You can factor in paid vacation time and holidays to figure out the total number of working days in a year. The salary calculator will also give you information on your weekly income and monthly totals. 
Step 3. Divide the annual salary for the employee by the number of hours to find the hourly rate. Completing this example, if the annual salary equals $67,000, divide $67,000 by 2,080 to find the hourly rate equals $32.21 per hour. To figure an hourly wage from an annual salary, you need to know the number of hours worked per year. Step 1. Add the number of weeks your employee works plus the number of weeks of paid vacation to find the total number of weeks worked.
Calculate your hourly wage by taking your monthly base rate of pay and multiplying it by 12 -- or your bimonthly pay and multiplying it by 26. Divide that number by 2080 times the FTE. For example, if your total monthly salary as a part-time employee is $1500 and the FTE is .65, your hourly wage is $13.31. If you got a raise or you can't find the number on your work documents, contact the human resources department to request your annual salary. Use your gross income -- salary before taxes are withdrawn -- to convert your wages to an hourly rate. You can also use your paychecks to determine
To calculate the hourly wage for a salary employee: 2080 is the total available hours for a full-time (40 hours/week). If the employee does not work 40 hours/week, calculate the number of hours the employee works per week, and multiply by 52. i.e., # of hours/week x 52 = total available annually. 1  Salary amount x pay frequency = annual salary.