The assault troops, mostly from the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZAC), landed at night on the western (Aegean Sea) side of the peninsula. They were put ashore one mile (1.6 km) north of their intended landing beach. Since 1916 the anniversary of the landings on 25 April has been commemorated as Anzac Day, becoming one of the most important national celebrations in Australia and New Zealand. The anniversary is also commemorated in Turkey, the United Kingdom and Ireland.
They were now combined into one army corps, known as the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZAC), and the men who fought in the corps became known as Anzacs. At dawn on 25 April 1915, the Gallipoli campaign began. Australians and New Zealanders landed on the rugged and mountainous western side of the peninsula. 
The landing at Anzac Cove on Sunday, 25 April 1915, also known as the landing at Gaba Tepe, and to the Turks as the Arıburnu Battle, was part of the amphibious invasion of the Gallipoli Peninsula by the forces of the British Empire, which began the land phase of the Gallipoli Campaign of the First World War. Since 1916 the anniversary of the landings on 25 April has been commemorated as Anzac Day, becoming one of the most important national celebrations in Australia and New Zealand. The anniversary is also commemorated in Turkey, the United Kingdom and Ireland.
DVA Gallipoli and the Anzacs and Investigating Gallipoli 1/19 ABC Gallipoli: The First Day Teacherʼs introduction to the site Gallipoli: The First Day is a 3D documentary website about the First World War landing of the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZAC) on the Gallipoli peninsula on 25 April 1915. DVA Gallipoli and the Anzacs 16/19 Gallipoli: The First Day Activity 6: Interviewing a soldier and creating a biography Here is a photograph of an Australian soldier who landed at Gallipoli
Submarines at Gallipoli. At 2.30 am on 25 April 1915, as the Anzacs approached the west coast of Gallipoli in the British invasion fleet, Australian submarine AE2 travelled through minefields, strong currents and artillery fire up the Dardanelles to disrupt Turkish sea communication. View an animation of the journey. For most Australians, the landing on 25 April 1915 is forever associated with a short stretch of beach known as Anzac Cove. However, some of the first waves landed at North Beach beyond Ari Burnu point beneath the Sphinx, a weathered pinnacle from which the ground falls steeply away into narrow gullies.
As the first major military campaign by Australian and New Zealand soldiers in the First World War, Gallipoli was an important test. Some four thousand soldiers landed at dawn in the first wave of boats, and by the end of the campaign's opening day some 20,000 Australian and New Zealand troops were ashore. But Anzac stood, and still stands, for reckless valour in a good cause, for enterprise, resourcefulness, fidelity, comradeship, and endurance that will never own defeat. Charles Bean, Australian journalist and historian present at the Anzac landing at Gallipoli hbhj.
The Gallipoli Campaign, also known as the Dardanelles Campaign, the Battle of Gallipoli or the Battle of Çanakkale (çanakkale: Çanakkale Canakkale), çanakkale savaşı was a Campaign Of World war i that took place On the (Gallipoli peninsula gelibolu In) modern turkey In The ottoman empire Between 25 april 1915 And 9. january 1916 This sector of the Gallipoli Peninsula became known as Anzac; the area held by the British and French became known as the Helles sector or simply Helles. The French made a diversionary landing at Kum Kale on the Asian shore, before re-embarking to hold the eastern area of the Helles sector.
Landing and consolidation The first Australians to land on the shores of Gallipoli were the 9th, 10th and 11th Divisions, made up of 1,500 men. This landing took place in the early hours, before daylight on 25 April 1915. The 12th division followed at the break of dawn. 
Page 1 – Introduction. The landing at Anzac, April 25, 1915. Each year on Anzac Day, New Zealanders (and Australians) mark the anniversary of the Gallipoli landings of 25 April 1915. On that day, thousands of young men, far from their homes, stormed the beaches on the Gallipoli Peninsula in what is now Turkey