Governor General of Canada. The Canadian Governor General is the representative of the Queen in Canada. Learn about the role and services provided by the Governor General and about current and past Canadian Governors General.
Canada is a constitutional monarchy, where the duties of head of State and head of Government are distinct. Canada’s Parliament consists of three parts: the Queen, represented by the governor general; the Senate; and the House of Commons. The Letters Patent Constituting the Office of the Governor General and Commander-in-Chief of Canada (1947) authorize the governor general of Canada to exercise powers and responsibilities belonging to the Sovereign, with the advice of members of the Privy Council.
The Role of the Governor General. The role of the governor general dates back nearly 400 years to 1608 when Samuel de Champlain fulfilled the duties and responsibilities of the governor of New France without ever receiving the official title. He established what has become the oldest continuing public office in Canada. One of the governor general's most important responsibilities is to ensure that Canada always has a prime minister and government in place. In the case of the death of a prime minister, it is the governor general's responsibility to ensure the continuity of government.
The Governor General acts as the Queen's representative in Canada and Canada's de facto head of state. (The Queen is the official head of state.). Before 1926, the Governor General acted as the representative of the British government in Canada. Until the 1950s, the Governor General was always British. Since then, the post has alternated between an English-Canadian and a French-Canadian. The lieutenant-governors of the provinces once represented the governor general, but now act as direct representatives of the Queen. The Governor General is appointed by the Queen on the advice of the prime minister.
The Lieutenant Governor is appointed by the Governor General acting by and with the advice of the Queen’s Privy Council for Canada. Lieutenant Governors are normally appointed for a period of not less than five years. Since the Statute of Westminster of 1931, Canada has been a fully sovereign state. 
The Canadian Governor General plays a strong role in encouraging excellence in Canada through a system of honours and awards such as the Order of Canada and promotes national identity and national unity. The Governor General of Canada is also the Commander-in-Chief of the Canadian Armed Forces. The Queen or sovereign is the head of state in Canada. The Governor General of Canada represents the sovereign, and most of the powers and authority of the sovereign have been delegated to the Governor General. The role of the Canadian Governor General is mostly symbolic and ceremonial. The head of government in Canada is the Prime Minister, an elected political leader
The Governor General of Canada does not have a term prescribed in any constitutional document or piece of legislation. Rather, the Governor General serves at the Queen's plea … sure (i.e., until the Governor General is replaced by a new appointment). The main duty of the Governor General is to represent the Queen of Canada. The Queen is Canada's head of State, and Her Majesty's executive functions are exercised on the advi … ce of the Queen's Privy Council for Canada.
Appointment of the Governor General. The Canadian Governor General is selected by the Prime Minister of Canada, although the formal appointment is made by the Queen. The term of office of the Governor General is usually five years, but it is sometimes extended up to seven years. The Queen or sovereign is the head of state in Canada. The Governor General of Canada represents the sovereign, and most of the powers and authority of the sovereign have been delegated to the Governor General. The role of the Canadian Governor General is mostly symbolic and ceremonial. The head of government in Canada is the Prime Minister, an elected political leader
Role and Responsibilities. Four hundred years ago, Samuel de Champlain—a governor in all but name— fulfilled several duties and responsibilities that would later be carried out by the governors of New France and, after Confederation, by the governors general of Canada. Canada became a country at Confederation in 1867. 