PLANT LIFE IN SWAMP FORESTS. The depth of flooding, and its duration, influences the types and density of trees in the swamp. The primary tree species in southern swamp forests are bald cypress and water tupelo, two trees adapted to the flooded conditions of their environment. But for seeds to germinate, bald cypress and water tupelo need periods when the water level is at or below the soil surface. They are filled with water most or all of the year, and often form a 1- to 2-mile wide band extending from the river marshes to the bottomland forests along creeks that flow into the river. Swamp forests are home to a host of plants and animals.
Note :  floodplain  is a broad term used to refer to one or more wetland types, which may include examples from the R, Ss, Ts, W, Xf, Xp, or other wetland types. Some examples of floodplain wetlands are seasonally inundated grassland (including natural wet meadows), shrublands, woodlands and forests. The main characteristics of a wetland are determined by the combination of the salinity of the water in the wetland, the soil type and the plants and animals living in the wetland.
The wetlands of Louisiana are water-saturated coastal and swamp regions of southern Louisiana. 
Therefore, changes to the water in systems that are upstream from a cypress swamp will eventually affect the water and living organisms in the swamp as well. Conversely, swamps affect downstream ecosystems by the water that flows out of the swamp. Biota. The long hydroperiod in a cypress swamp determines the types of plants that can thrive in such a system. Plants need not only to be flood tolerant, but also to be able to survive in soil with a low oxygen content. Because the soil is inundated for much of the year, oxygen in the soil is gradually depleted.
A swamp is a type of wetland characterized by relatively deep and widespread areas of water when compared to other wetland varieties, such as a marsh. A wetland is an ecosystem that is intermediate between terrestrial (land) and aquatic (water) environments, with features of both types. In the United States, woody vegetation is considered characteristic of a swamp, but this feature is not necessarily present in those around the world.
Swamps can contain fresh water, seawater or a mixture of both. Some swamps are permanent, while others come and go with fluctuations in the local water level. Whatever type of water is present, it usually moves very slowly through a swamp, due to the presence of large amounts of plants and trees. 
Other swamps occur on the shores of large lakes. Some swamps have hammocks, or dry-land protrusions, covered by aquatic vegetation, or vegetation that tolerates periodic inundation. The two main types of swamp are true or swamp forests and transitional or shrub swamps. In the boreal regions of Canada, the word swamp is colloquially used for what is more correctly termed a bog or muskeg. The water of a swamp may be fresh water, brackish water or seawater. Some of the world's largest swamps are found along major rivers such as the Amazon, the Mississippi, and the Congo
The swamp has a distinctive and fascinating natural history. Cypress swamps, winding waterways, and floating peat mats are a major part of the Okefenokee's habitat mosaic. Wet and dry prairies, swamps dominated by shrubs, and forests of black gum and bay trees intersperse the array of other habitats. The largest swamp in North America, the Okefenokee Swamp covers roughly 700 square miles and is located in the southeastern corner of Georgia, encompassing most of Charlton and Ware counties and parts of Brantley and Clinch counties.
A swamp is a wetland that is forested. Many swamps occur along large rivers where they are critically dependent upon natural water level fluctuations. In the boreal regions of Canada, the word swamp is colloquially used for what is more correctly termed a bog or muskeg. The water of a swamp may be fresh water, brackish water or seawater.
Swamps are forested wetlands. Like marshes, they are often found near rivers or lakes and have mineral soil that drains very slowly. Unlike marshes, they have trees and bushes. They may have water in them for the whole year or for only part of the year. Swamps vary in size and type. Some swamps have soil that is nutrient rich, other swamps have nutrient poor soil. Swamps are often classified by the types of trees that grow in them