A buckyball is a molecule called Buckminsterfullerene. Composed of 60 carbon atoms formed in the shape of a hollow ball, buckyballs have, as yet, little practical use, although they do make up nanotubes, which have some uses. The story of buckyballs begins in 1985 in the laboratory of British astronomer Harold Kroto. In the field of electronics, buckyballs and nanotubes have also been used in the laboratory to demonstrate tiny wires, transistors, and other electronic components. Now over a decade old, the buckyball has created a lot of excitement but is still in its infancy as a commercial product.
Because scientists are still working hard on determining what bucky balls can be used for there, there aren't a lot of applications yet. However, there is a growing trend to use bucky balls for medical purposes. The characteristic of a bucky ball is that it is spherical. A bucky ball is a fullerene molecule which is any molecule that is made up entirely of carbon. Specifically, a bucky ball is a spherical fullerene while the cylindrical fullerene is called a carbon nanotube.
A fullerene is a molecule of carbon in the form of a hollow sphere, ellipsoid, tube, and many other shapes. Spherical fullerenes are also called buckyballs, and they resemble the balls used in football (soccer). Cylindrical ones are called carbon nanotubes or buckytubes. Fullerenes are sparingly soluble in many solvents. Common solvents for the fullerenes include aromatics, such as toluene, and others like carbon disulfide. Solutions of pure buckminsterfullerene have a deep purple color.
Another application that is being tested is the use of bucky balls in fibre optics. Because of the perfect spherical shape that they carry, they are able to transmit light. Polyurethane is added and this creates a thin film on a flat service that light can travel through. A bucky ball is a fullerene molecule which is any molecule that is made up entirely of carbon. Specifically, a bucky ball is a spherical fullerene while the cylindrical fullerene is called a carbon nanotube.
Buckyballs: Uses and Applications | Fullerenes. The properties of buckyballs (also known as fullerenes) have caused researchers and companies to consider using them in several fields. The following survey of buckyball applications introduces many of these uses. Click on any of the links below to go to a detailed explanation. Combining buckyballs, nanotubes, and polymers to produce inexpensive solar cells that can be formed by simply painting a surface. Buckyballs may be used to store hydrogen, possibly as a fuel tank for fuel cell powered cars. Buckyballs may be able to reduce the growth of bacteria in pipes and membranes in water systems.
Researchers have spent the last 15 years finding uses for buckyballs and nanotubes. Today, nanotubes are used as the stylus in atomic force microscopes (AFMs). Nanotubes are also being used as filters to separate extremely small objects from liquids or the air. “Buckyball” is the common name for a molecule called Buckminsterfullerene, which is made of 60 carbon atoms formed in the shape of a hollow ball. British scientist Harry Kroto discovered it in 1985.
Buckyballs. Buckyballs composed by 216 strong neodymium rare earth magnetic beads, is a spherical strong magnet which was exquisitely processed by magnetic balls. Due to the mutual attraction between the mini magnet poles, Buckyballs tiny magnets cube can be combined into any geometry freely. 2. Buckyballs neo cube magnetic building toy is exquisite, combinatory, glossy and it’s not easy to fade. So it can be used as magnetic jewelry, such as necklaces, bracelets. Educational Meaning: You can improve your intuitive perception of geometry and mathematics simply via the buckyballs construction toy.
The first fullerene molecule to be discovered, and the family's namesake, buckminsterfullerene (C 60), was prepared in 1985 by Richard Smalley, Robert Curl, James Heath, Sean O'Brien, and Harold Kroto at Rice University. The name was a homage to Buckminster Fuller, whose geodesic domes it resembles. Fullerenes are sparingly soluble in many solvents. Common solvents for the fullerenes include aromatics, such as toluene, and others like carbon disulfide. Solutions of pure buckminsterfullerene have a deep purple color.