In botany and horticulture, deciduous plants, including trees, shrubs and herbaceous perennials, are those that lose all of their leaves for part of the year. This process is called abscission. In some cases leaf loss coincides with winter — namely in temperate or polar climates. Many deciduous plants flower during the period when they are leafless, as this increases the effectiveness of pollination. The absence of leaves improves wind transmission of pollen for wind-pollinated plants and increases the visibility of the flowers to insects in insect-pollinated plants.
The converse of deciduous is evergreen, where foliage is shed on a different schedule from deciduous trees, therefore appearing to remain green year round. Plants that are intermediate may be called semi-deciduous; they lose old foliage as new growth begins. Many deciduous plants flower during the period when they are leafless, as this increases the effectiveness of pollination. The absence of leaves improves wind transmission of pollen for wind-pollinated plants and increases the visibility of the flowers to insects in insect-pollinated plants.
Adj. 1. deciduous - (of plants and shrubs) shedding foliage at the end of the growing season. plant life, flora, plant - (botany) a living organism lacking the power of locomotion. evergreen - (of plants and shrubs) bearing foliage throughout the year. 1. (Botany) (of trees and shrubs) shedding all leaves annually at the end of the growing season and then having a dormant period without leaves. Compare evergreen 1. 2. (Zoology) (of antlers, wings, teeth, etc) being shed at the end of a period of growth. 3. impermanent; transitory.
Deciduous. Deciduous means falling off at maturity or tending to fall off, and is typically used in reference to trees or shrubs that lose their leaves seasonally, and to the shedding of other plant structures such as petals after flowering or fruit when ripe. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: deciduous (Adjective). Describing a part that falls off, or is shed, at a particular time or stage of development. deciduous (Adjective). Of or pertaining to trees which lose their leaves in winter or the dry season.
Deciduous means falling off at maturity or tending to fall off, and it is typically used in order to refer to trees or shrubs that lose their leaves seasonally (most commonly during autumn) and to the shedding of other plant structures such as petals after flowering or fruit when ripe. Many deciduous plants flower during the period when they are leafless, as this increases the effectiveness of pollination. The absence of leaves improves wind transmission of pollen for wind-pollinated plants and increases the visibility of the flowers to insects in insect-pollinated plants.
Common examples of deciduous trees include oak, maple, and hickory trees. Oak trees are characteristic deciduous trees that lose their leaves in the fall and re-grow them in the spring. There are approximately 600 living species of oak trees. These hardwood trees have large, lobe-shaped leaves and produce a fruit in the form of a nut called an acorn. Definition of Deciduous Trees. More than likely, you are not too far from a deciduous tree right now. Deciduous trees are trees that drop their leaves for part of the year. They are found in temperate and tropical climates all over the world. Deciduous trees have broad flat leaves that catch a lot of light and require a great amount of water
Further information: Deciduous. Drought deciduous refers to plants that drop their leaves during dry season or periods of dryness, such as plants of the California Coastal sage scrub community, or the leeward Hawaiian dry forest tree, the wiliwili (Erythrina sandwicensis). This may be contrasted to plants that drop their leaves during cold periods. 
Definition: Deciduous is a designation indicating a plant sheds its foliage at the end of the growing season. The term is used primarily in reference to trees and shrubs, in contrast with those that are evergreen.. The best-known deciduous trees are the fall foliage trees. Both come from the Latin root meaning fall.. The leaves of deciduous trees and shrubs fall, just as the grandeur of a decadent nation takes a mighty tumble. The following are some examples of deciduous shrubs: 1  Hydrangea Shrubs.