HelioPower’s Virtual Net Metering Experience. HelioPower was early to develop the MASH marketplace and I developed among the first VNM projects in each of the major regulated utilities: Las Serenas in SDG&E, and Sunrise Vista in SCE and Sherwood Village in PG&E territory. Going Virtual. Recently some sectors have been allowed to take advantage of “ Virtual Net Metering ” (VNM) policy, which allows multi-meter property owner to allocate an eligible system’s energy credits to other meters.
Virtual Net Metering (VNM). Virtual Net Metering (VNM) allows energy produced by a renewable generating facility to be credited to the tenants' individual utility accounts who are connected at the same service delivery point. NEM-V vs MASH VNM. How VNM Works. Under Virtual Net Metering, the owner or operator of a multi-tenant property designates the percentage of the total metered output of the generator or generators, to be allocated to each tenant service account known as ‘Benefitting Accounts’.
Net Metering and Remote Net Metering. In a conventional net metering situation, a customer-sited renewable energy system is connected to the utility grid through a customer’s utility meter. Net Metering/Remote Net Metering and Interconnection. Renewable energy systems can be grid-connected (connected to the utility electrical grid), or they can work independent from a utility's electricity distribution system (off-grid).
About Net Metering. Net metering allows you to use the energy generated by your renewable energy system to offset your monthly power bill. Any NV Energy customer who installs a renewable energy system may be eligible for Net Metering. Net Metering Billing. Once your system is complete and a new bidirectional meter is installed, your bill will change to accommodate the additional information provided by the net meter.
Executive Summary. Inflexible metering procedures limit the types of customers who can invest in solar electric power, and the scale of systems. New policies for virtual net metering, community solar, and meter aggregation can make solar more economical and accessible. Meter Aggregation. What is “meter aggregation”. Meter aggregation allows for allocation of the credits from a solar electric system to meters in buildings separate from where the actual power is produced, if they are on the same customer’s utility account.
Under the Rhode Island net metering program, National Grid is not entitled to the system's RECs. However, under the terms of the RE Growth program, National Grid will receive title to the system's RECs. 1  I'm moving into a house with a self-generation system already installed. 
Virtual Net Metering. Net metering is a common distributed renewable energy policy in the United States, allowing individuals to “turn back” their meter (and reduce their electric bill) by generating on-site electricity. 