How long you need to wait to exercise depends on how big the meal was. If it’s something small, like around 200 calories, you could probably exercise right after eating. However, if you’re eating a large meal, you may need to wait more like 2-3 hours. The smaller the meal the less it will impact your work out. If you know you’re exercising soon after, don’t stuff yourself. Eating before a workout can also help give you more energy in your work out. Finding the timing balance between sustained energy without digestive issues is the goal for eating before exercise. Consider the following factors when trying to determine how long you should wait to work ou
It takes 30 to 40 minutes for food to digest in your stomach and 3 to 4 hours for it to absorb in your intestines. I agree that there is no strict formula for this, since it also depends on what you eat and how you intend to expend that energy. From my experience if I eat a large meal which is heavy in carbohydrates I see my best performance with a high intensity exercise 6 to 8 hours later. I have also consumed protein shakes within 15 minutes of a weight training circuit and have seen strengthened result
When it comes to eating before exercise, it's all about timing. No matter what time of day you choose to exercise, make sure to plan your workout two to three hours after your meal. Going overboard with too much food right before a workout will leave you feeling sluggish and can lead to stomach discomfort.
Unfortunately, there is no strict formula for this and the answer strongly depends on the intensity of exercise. If you are uncomfortable when exercising, it has a direct effect on my performance. If I eat a full meal, I have to wait 2 to 3 hours before high intensity exercise. tons of fluids. More than 15 miles, I try to add calories during. I agree that there is no strict formula for this, since it also depends on what you eat and how you intend to expend that energy. From my experience if I eat a large meal which is heavy in carbohydrates I see my best performance with a high intensity exercise 6 to 8 hours later.
This will provide both fast-acting and sustainable energy to your body. Try to eat a snack within two hours of exercising, but wait a minimum of 15 minutes after exercising before you eat. Bring a snack along to the gym with you, so you can eat as soon as your workout is over. Along with your snack, drink 3 cups of water for every pound of weight that you lost during the workout, notes MayoClinic.com, adding that these pounds are water weight and must be replenished to prevent dehydration. 
Answer: If you're looking to exercise after eating that's gonna be so varied, it's so individual. Some people have stomachs of steel and you can literally eat your meal, go out, do your workout, go out, do your swim, without cramping up. 
How you space out meals during the course of the day might not make a big difference in the calorie department, but it has huge implications on your workout performance. Not only can ineffectively fueling your body hinder your performance, but also, eating too much before exercise can interfere with your goals. No matter what time of day you choose to exercise, make sure to plan your workout two to three hours after your meal. Going overboard with too much food right before a workout will leave you feeling sluggish and can lead to stomach discomfort.