Chronic alcohol use, as well as binge drinking, can cause high blood pressure, or hypertension. Your blood pressure is a measurement of the pressure your heart creates as it beats, and the pressure inside your veins and arteries. Healthy blood vessels stretch like elastic as the heart pumps blood through them. 
Given these and other risks, the American Heart Association cautions people NOT to start drinking ... if they do not already drink alcohol. Consult your doctor on the benefits and risks of consuming alcohol in moderation. If you drink alcohol, do so in moderation. This means an average of one to two drinks per day for men and one drink per day for women. (A drink is one 12 oz. beer, 4 oz. of wine, 1.5 oz. of 80-proof spirits, or 1 oz. of 100-proof spirits.). I drink every day, but not that much. If you drink, do so in moderation. The incidence of heart disease in those who drink moderate amounts of alcohol (no more than two drinks per day for men or one drink per day for women) is lower than in nondrinkers.
Many people enjoy a drink without any problems, but binge drinking or drinking heavily over longer periods of time can have very serious consequences. Alcohol misuse not only harms the individual, but damages relationships and society in general in terms of violence and crime, accidents and drink driving. Heart and circulation. Alcohol can cause high blood pressure (hypertension), which increases the risk of having a heart attack or stroke. It also weakens heart muscles, which can affect the lungs, liver, brain and other body systems, and also cause heart failure.
How Alcohol Affects the Body. Even a small amount of alcohol has an affect on your body. When you drink, alcohol is absorbed into your bloodstream and distributed throughout your body. A tiny amount of alcohol exits your body in your urine and your breath. You absorb alcohol more slowly if you eat, especially if the food is high in fat. However, if you drink more than your body can process, you’ll get drunk. How quickly alcohol is metabolized depends on your size and gender, among other things.
Heavy drinking can make you more likely to get serious health problems like liver disease, cancer, and peptic ulcers, among others. Regular or high alcohol use can hurt your heart and lead to diseases of the heart muscle, called cardiomyopathy. Binge drinking can cause irregular heart rhythms called arrhythmias. This is why you can’t save up all your “moderate” doses during the week and then tie one on during the weekend. 
The effect of alcohol on your heart is complex. For some people, even moderate alcohol use carries major risks. Research is ongoing to clarify the relationship of alcohol and heart disease. You may have heard that moderate alcohol consumption (red wine or beer) may offer some people protection against heart disease.
Information Alcohol and your heart. If you are a heavy drinker, you have an increased risk of heart disorders. While some evidence suggests that drinking a small amount of alcohol can be good for you, it’s important to remember that the more you drink, the higher your risk of heart disorders and disease. The effect of alcohol on your heart depends on your age, your general health and the amount and pattern of your drinking. If you are a heavy drinker, you have an increased risk of heart disorders. Binge drinking can cause acute cardiovascular effects such as heartbeat irregularities, leading to shortness of breath and chest pain. The effects are reversible if you stop drinking or greatly reduce the amount you drink.
How Alcohol Affects the Heart. Drinking alcohol can affect the heart in good and bad ways. On the one hand, studies have shown that moderate drinking—defined for adults over 65 as no more than one drink a day for men and women—can lower the chances of developing heart disease. Alcohol not broken down by the liver goes to the rest of the body, including the brain. Alcohol can affect parts of the brain that control movement, speech, judgment, and memory. These effects lead to the familiar signs of drunkenness: difficulty walking, slurred speech, memory lapses, and impulsive behavior.
How Alcohol Affects the Body. Drinking alcohol affects the body in many ways. These effects can lead to physical and mental changes that can put alcohol users and others at risk of injury or death. Possible dangers include falls, household accidents, and car crashes. Alcohol not broken down by the liver goes to the rest of the body, including the brain. Alcohol can affect parts of the brain that control movement, speech, judgment, and memory. These effects lead to the familiar signs of drunkenness: difficulty walking, slurred speech, memory lapses, and impulsive behavior.
Brain damage. Binge drinking can cause blackouts, memory loss and anxiety. Long-term drinking can result in permanent brain damage, serious mental health problems and alcohol dependence or alcoholism. For more information on the effects of alcohol on mental health click here. Heart and circulation. Alcohol can cause high blood pressure (hypertension), which increases the risk of having a heart attack or stroke. It also weakens heart muscles, which can affect the lungs, liver, brain and other body systems, and also cause heart failure.