1 Verify the type of payment acceptable at the passport acceptance agency. 2  Passport photos must be 2 x 2 inches, in color, printed on quality paper, taken with a neutral expression and taken so that the head is 1 to 1 3/8 inches from the bottom of the chin to top of the head. Tip. 1  Verify the type of payment acceptable at the passport acceptance agency. 2  Passport photos must be 2 x 2 inches, in color, printed on quality paper, taken with a neutral expression and taken so that the head is 1 to 1 3/8 inches from the bottom of the chin to top of the head.
There have been times in the past when it could take up to 12 weeks or more to get a passport. More recently, the processing time has been 4-6 weeks for routine service. When demand is low, this can drop down to only 3-4 weeks. Expedited services usually takes 2-3 weeks although it can take longer. The place you submit your request can determine how long it takes to get your travel document. Applications that are mailed in either directly or through a passport office can take up to 6 weeks for standard processing or up to 3 weeks if they are expedited
Routine Passport Processing Time. According to the U.S. Department of State, plan on four to six weeks to receive your passport once you’ve filed the necessary application through a local passport agency. Keep in mind, longer processing times may occur during heavy application periods or due to other circumstances
It usually takes four to six weeks for a passport application to be processed. This time frame can be too long when you are planning a last minute trip. Luckily, the U.S. government also offers expedited passports, which take just two to three weeks to process. Tip. 1  Verify the type of payment acceptable at the passport acceptance agency. 2  Passport photos must be 2 x 2 inches, in color, printed on quality paper, taken with a neutral expression and taken so that the head is 1 to 1 3/8 inches from the bottom of the chin to top of the head.
In an emergency situation, a passport can be secured in a couple of hours or less. If you need to get a passport in a hurry but can't get to a regional processing center, the expediter we recommend can help you to get a passport fast. Click for expedited passport courier service in 24 to 48 hours! . More recently, the processing time has been 4-6 weeks for routine service. When demand is low, this can drop down to only 3-4 weeks. Expedited services usually takes 2-3 weeks although it can take longer. The place you submit your request can determine how long it takes to get your travel document.
Obtaining a passport is a simple process -- you submit your application and documents with the U.S. Post Office -- but one that can take some time depending on how busy the office that processes your application is. If you reside in Philadelphia, apply at any of several participating post offices in the city. Download and print a passport application from the U.S. Department of State website. Fill out the form completely -- it asks for your name, address, Social Security number and information about your parents, as well as additional questions -- in advance of your visit to your nearest participating post office. Step 4.
Schedule an appointment at a regional passport agency if you need the passport for travel within less than two weeks. You can get a passport within 48 hours for a life or death emergency. To make an appointment at the location closest to your area in Pennsylvania, call the automated scheduling line 1-877-487-2778. Tip. 1  Verify the type of payment acceptable at the passport acceptance agency. 2  Passport photos must be 2 x 2 inches, in color, printed on quality paper, taken with a neutral expression and taken so that the head is 1 to 1 3/8 inches from the bottom of the chin to top of the head.
How long it takes. It should take 3 weeks to get the passport-use a different service if you need the passport urgently. It can take longer if more information is needed or your application hasn’t been filled out correctly. Don’t book travel until you have a valid passport-doing so is at your own risk.
Renew or replace your adult passport. You can renew or replace your passport at any time. It costs £72.50, or £82.25 through the Post Office’s Passport Check and Send service. Time left on an existing passport is added to your new one, up to a maximum of 9 months. It should take 3 weeks to get the passport-use a different service if you need the passport urgently. It can take longer if more information is needed or your application hasn’t been filled out correctly. Don’t book travel until you have a valid passport-doing so is at your own risk.