Arthropods are the largest phylum in the animal kingdom; there are more types of arthropods than all other types of animals combined. They can vary in size from microscopic to larger than an adult human. Land arthropods are usually less than 15cm (approximately 5 inches). Because of the great diversity of arthropods there is a great diversity in their behaviors. Ecosystem Roles : Arthropods are found in all consumer s' roles of an ecosystem, whether they eat plants or animals, and some are important decomposers. They are important in the pollination of flowering plants.
The arthropod body plan consists of segments, each with a pair of appendages. The rigid cuticle inhibits growth, so arthropods replace it periodically by moulting. Their versatility has enabled them to become the most species-rich members of all ecological guilds in most environments. Arthropod hatchlings vary from miniature adults to grubs and caterpillars that lack jointed limbs and eventually undergo a total metamorphosis to produce the adult form. The level of maternal care for hatchlings varies from nonexistent to the prolonged care provided by scorpions.
An arthropod (from Greek arthro- , joint + podos, foot) is an invertebrate animal having an exoskeleton (external skeleton), a segmented body, and jointed appendages. Arthropods form the phylum Arthropoda, and include the insects, arachnids, myriapods, and crustaceans. Arthropod hatchlings vary from miniature adults to grubs and caterpillars that lack jointed limbs and eventually undergo a total metamorphosis to produce the adult form. The level of maternal care for hatchlings varies from nonexistent to the prolonged care provided by scorpions.
Description: The phylum Arthropoda includes three subphyla the Chelicerata, the Crustacea, and the Atelocerata, The Crustacia are primarily found in aquatic environments. The Crustacia will be discussed with the playa sub-community, which is a temporary pond or lake. Because of the great diversity of arthropods there is a great diversity in their behaviors. Ecosystem Roles : Arthropods are found in all consumer s' roles of an ecosystem, whether they eat plants or animals, and some are important decomposers. They are important in the pollination of flowering plants.
When you are through, please compare your data to the information found in the “Arthropod Reference Guide” to determine the class to which the specimen belongs. Place this information in the “Data Table” and/or in Table I below. 
A very successful animal group. Arthropods is a phylum of animals that includes insects and spiders. They are invertebrates, which means they do not have an internal skeleton and backbone. Instead, they have a hard exoskeleton on the outside, the top layer of which is known as the cuticle. 
Arthropods are a group of animals which have two jointed bodies, segmented, and have eight legs. These are similar to insects. Scorpions and Spiders are Arthropods. They can be found almost everywhere, in land or water, but are mostly found hiding beneath leaves or rocks, and other dark and maybe damp places. lolmaow · 7 years ago.
This phylum includes insects like butterflies and beetles, crustaceans like crabs and lobsters, and chelicerates like spiders and scorpions. Arthropods are found in all parts of the world in a wide variety of environments, from the deep sea to the frozen arctic regions. Most arthropod's bodies have three sections-the head, the thorax, and the abdomen. The thorax is the part of the body between the head and the abdomen. In some species of arthropods, the head and the thorax are one section called the cephalothorax. Arthropods have an open circulatory system