Preparation. Quattro formaggi generally is milk-based; a container of commercially prepared Salsa ai 4 formaggi I had in the refrigerator said it had Gorgonzola, Fontal (a cheaper relative of Fontina), Grana (close cousin to Parmigiano) and something called Italica, which is new to me. There's also white wine and white pepper. 
Directions. 1  Shred all of the cheeses but the;marscarpone and toss them together in a bowl. 2  Set aside. 3  In a pan, melt about a 1/2 stick of butter and then pour in the light cream and bring to a boil. 4  When the cream is beginning to boil, slowly mix in the marscarpone. 1 When the cream is beginning to boil, slowly mix in the marscarpone. 2  After it has melted, slowly add the other cheeses giving them time to melt and blend into the cream. 3  The sauce will be ready when all the cheese has been mixed in and it comes to a boil again.
1 Set aside. 2  In a pan, melt about a 1/2 stick of butter and then pour in the light cream and bring to a boil. 3  When the cream is beginning to boil, slowly mix in the marscarpone. 4  After it has melted, slowly add the other cheeses giving them time to melt and blend into the cream. 1 When the cream is beginning to boil, slowly mix in the marscarpone. 2  After it has melted, slowly add the other cheeses giving them time to melt and blend into the cream. 3  The sauce will be ready when all the cheese has been mixed in and it comes to a boil again.
Formaggi sauce is a cheese-based sauce, typically served on pasta. As the name implies, it has its origins in Italian cuisine, although other cultures have variants on the sauce as well. In addition to being served on pasta, this sauce may be used as a garnish on an assortment of other dishes. Gruyere cheese, which is often included in formaggi sauce. Blocks of sharp cheddar cheese, which can be used in a formaggi sauce. Formaggi sauces often include ricotta cheese. Gouda cheese is often used in formaggi sauce. Many formaggi sauces begin as a basic cream sauce, and then cheese is slowly added. Gorgonzola cheese, which can be added to formaggi sauce
1 answers expert answers formaggi sauce is a cheese based sauce typically served on pasta it has its roots in italian cuisine in addition to being served on pasta the food may be used as a garnish on an assortment of other dishes which could benefit from a healthy serving of cream sauce many companies make formaggi sauce in jars as well as fresh and it can also be made at home login to post comment
Directions. Bring a large pot of lightly salted water to a boil. Add the butter to a large skillet over medium heat and add the mushrooms and garlic. Cook until browned, about 5 minutes, then add the wine and cook until evaporated. 
Pizza Quattro Formaggi. This pizza is delicious although very rich. My son and son-in-law both love this pizza but prefer to have some spicy pepperoni sprinkled on top as well which adds a bite that offsets the richness of all the cheese. 
Print. A traditional cheese-based sauce that is most often used as pasta sauce. The classic Formaggi sauce may be referred to as a Quattro Formaggi sauce, referring to the four varieties of cheese mixed in with the other ingredients in the sauce. A few of the additional ingredients that will added to the cheeses may include: cream, tomato sauce, a type of meat such as ham or bacon, herbs such as rosemary, sage, oregano, and several other mild seasonings.
1 In a pan, melt about a 1/2 stick of butter and then pour in the light cream and bring to a boil. 2  When the cream is beginning to boil, slowly mix in the marscarpone. 3  After it has melted, slowly add the other cheeses giving them time to melt and blend into the cream. 1 When the cream is beginning to boil, slowly mix in the marscarpone. 2  After it has melted, slowly add the other cheeses giving them time to melt and blend into the cream. 3  The sauce will be ready when all the cheese has been mixed in and it comes to a boil again.