The Bridge That Peace Built Constructed in 1927 to recognize over 100 years of peace and prosperity between the U.S. and Canada. Local Icon The Peace Bridge is a recognized architectural symbol of the Buffalo Niagara region.
Service Standards. The estimated wait times for travellers reaching the primary inspection booth, the first point of contact with the CBSA when crossing the Canada/U.S. land border. 1  10 minutes on weekdays (Monday to Thursday). 2  20 minutes weekends and holidays (Friday, Saturday, Sunday and holidays).
Below is the most current information on traffic conditions, border wait times, weather and road conditions for the Peace Bridge border crossing. You may need to refresh this page periodically to get current information.
CBSA has tools available to avoid border wait times at our 26 busiest land border crossings. The Current Border Wait Times table displays wait times for reaching the CBSA primary inspection booth when crossing the Canada/U.S. land border and is updated hourly.
Lewiston Queenston is one of the busiest U.S./Canada border crossings and, along with the Peace Bridge in 28 km (45 mi) away in Buffalo, the major border crossing for commercial trucks in the area.
“The bridge is perfect entry point to Canada or the USA.” in 8 reviews. “I always try crossing the border at Peace Bridge instead of Rainbow Bridge or Queenston Lewiston Bridge.” in 8 reviews. “- Go on their website for the most up to date required documentation for crossing .” in 5 reviews.
The table below shows the estimated wait times for reaching the primary inspection booth, the first point of contact with CBP when crossing the Canada/U.S. and Mexico/U.S. land borders.
Search website. If you are driving to the United States from Canada, the table below will keep you up to date on border wait times for entry into the United States. The ports of entry are listed geographically from east to west.
Current Traffic Conditions at Peace Bridge. Always check our page with real time weather, traffic, and border wait times to see current conditions for the Peace Bridge border crossing.