The lymphatic system is basically a channel that carries a clear or whitish fluid called the lymph. This lymph aids in clearing the tissues of infective organisms, toxins etc. The basic structure and functions of the lymphatic system can be broken into the lymph channels.
These vessels direct lymph toward the lymph node. As the lymph enters the node, spaces or channels called sinuses collect and carry lymph toward an area called the hilum. The hilum is a concave area in a node that leads to an efferent lymphatic vessel. Efferent lymphatic vessels take lymph away from
B-cells and T-cells are lymphocytes found in lymph nodes and lymph tissues. When B-cell lymphocytes become activated due to the presence of a particular antigen, they create antibodies that are specific to that specific antigen. The antigen is tagged as an intruder and labeled for destruction by other immune cells.
The lymphatic system includes a system of lymphatic capillaries, vessels, nodes, and ducts that collects and transports lymph, which is a clear to slightly yellowish fluid, similar to the plasma in blood. The lymphatic system is important for maintaining your body’s fluid balance, and it helps transport some fats.
The lymph is conveyed into the lymphatic system through vessels called lymph capillaries. These are comparable to the capillaries found within the circulatory system, but they are larger in circumference and have a unique one-way structure, meaning that lymph cannot pass out of the vessels the same way it entered.
Afferent vessels transport fluid into the lymph nodes, while efferent vessels carry filtered lymph away from the lymph nodes. White blood cells called lymphocytes are a major part of the lymphatic system. Lymph nodes may become swollen when a person gets sick.
Lymphatic vessels that carry lymph toward a lymph node are called afferent lymphatic vessels. The ones that carry lymph away from lymph nodes are called efferent lymphatic vessels. Lymphatic vessels are similar to veins, but they have a bumpier appearance due to a large number of valves found in the vessels.
Lymphatic vessels are structures of the lymphatic system that transport fluid away from tissues. Lymphatic vessels are similar to blood vessels, but they don't carry blood. The fluid transported by lymphatic vessels is called lymph. Lymph is a clear fluid that comes from blood plasma that exits blood vessels at capillary beds.