Yellow Tongue. A yellow coating on the tongue is also caused by inflammation of the papillae, which then collect yellow bacteria. Smoking, mouth breathing, dehydration and fever all cause the papillae to become inflamed. 
The tongue appears to have a thick, white coating due to inflammation and trapped particles, such as dead cells and bacteria. The causes of a white tongue coating are varied. Usually, white tongue poses little concern and may be caused by dehydration, mouth breathing, medications, alcohol use, smoking, or fever. To treat this form of coated tongue, brush or scrape your tongue. Drinking extra water may help if dehydration is a cause. You can prevent white tongue through eliminating excessive alcohol consumption, quitting smoking, breathing through your nose, and practicing good oral hygiene.
Yellow tongue is a usually benign condition which occurs when bacteria in the mouth produce pigments which cause the tongue to develop a yellow coating. A yellow coated tongue may look slightly alarming, but it does not indicate the presence of a major medical problem except in very rare cases. Candida sometimes colonizes the mouth and causes a yellowish or white coating to appear, for example. It can be eliminated with medication, however. Certain medical problems such as infection with HIV and liver disease can sometimes cause the tongue to develop a yellow coating.
Symptoms : The tongue gets coated with tiny white or yellow coating due to bacterial infection. For severe case of infection it can cause tongue pain and bad breathe. You will get burning sensation and pain if white covering is due to yeast infection like oral thrush. 
As it is mostly caused by overgrowth of fungus called Candida, this condition is also referred to as Candidiasis of the mouth and throat. The presence of white patches on the surface of the tongue and bad breath are the most common white coated tongue symptoms. The coating can also be yellow or brown in color. In severe cases, coated tounge may appear as though it is covered with fur or hair (Hairy Tongue). Coated tongue causes no pain in most of the cases. The condition is more common in infants, people wearing dentures and individuals with weakened immune system
Green colored tongue (pale, dark, green yellow, green white, etc.) is a common problem that affects people of all ages including elderly, adults and children (baby, infant or toddler). Discover more on green colored tongue (coating or film) including causes, diagnosis and the symptoms you expect to have. 
Most often, yellow tongue is an early sign of a disorder known as black hairy tongue. Rarely, yellow tongue may be a sign of jaundice, a yellowing of the eyes and skin, which sometimes indicates liver or gallbladder problems. Self-care is usually all that's needed to treat yellow tongue, unless it's related to another medical condition. 1  Causes. 
My tongue has a yellow coating on the sides and back of it. 1. Get help from a doctor now ›. Coated tongue: Your tongue may be coated due to an infection called thrush. The fever that you have been having may also be related. It is very important that you see your doctor to evaluate the cause of your fever. Take care.
Causes. Yellow tongue usually occurs as a result of a harmless buildup of dead skin cells on the tiny projections (papillae) on the surface of your tongue. Most commonly this occurs when your papillae become enlarged and bacteria in your mouth produce colored pigments. Also, the longer-than-normal papillae can easily trap cells that have shed, which become stained by tobacco, food or other substances. Mouth breathing or dry mouth may also be linked to yellow tongue. Other causes of a yellow tongue may include, for example: 1  Black hairy