Eating fiber-rich whole foodsnot foods that tout added fiberis the best way to increase your fiber intake, says Carolyn Brown, RD, a nutritionist at Foodtrainers, in New York City. Here is a list of high-fiber foodsand tasty recipes that contain them. Watch the video: 3 Ways to Get More Fiber. Next: Corn. Fiber can lower blood sugar, cut cholesterol, and may even prevent colon cancer and help you avoid hemorrhoids. If it were a drug, the world would be clamoring for it. But few people are getting enough.
1 Aids in achieving healthy weight. 2  High-fiber foods tend to be more filling than low-fiber foods, so you're likely to eat less and stay satisfied longer. 3  And high-fiber foods tend to take longer to eat and to be less energy dense, which means they have fewer calories for the same volume of food. 1 This type of fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material. 2  It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 3  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium.
Adding Fiber to Your Family's Diet. The benefits of fiber are important for both you and your child, and the entire family should eat a diet rich in fiber. To add fiber to your family's diet, include the following foods. Check food labels for the grams of dietary fiber to find breads, cereals and other foods high in fiber. 1  Whole grain breads with at least 3 grams of fiber per serving. 2  Choosing whole wheat bread is not enough, as many varieties of whole wheat bread have very little fiber. 1 Cereals with at least 5 grams of fiber per serving. 2  To find high-fiber cereals look for those made from whole grains, bran and rolled oats. 3  Check the nutrition label to make sure it has enough fiber. 4  Brown rice is brown because it still has the husk, which is the fiber.
Did you know a diet rich in fiber could be one of your best cancer prevention weapons? Researchers have found that both soluble and insoluble fiber reduce the risk of breast cancer, especially for women consuming upwards of 30 grams a day. 
1 When you eat foods high in fiber, such as beans and whole grains, the sugar in those foods is absorbed slower, which keeps your blood glucose levels from rising too fast. 2  This is good for you because spikes in glucose fall rapidly, which can make you feel hungry soon after eating and lead to overeating. 1 Cereals with at least 5 grams of fiber per serving. 2  To find high-fiber cereals look for those made from whole grains, bran and rolled oats. 3  Check the nutrition label to make sure it has enough fiber. 4  Brown rice is brown because it still has the husk, which is the fiber.
1 High-fiber foods tend to be more filling than low-fiber foods, so you're likely to eat less and stay satisfied longer. 2  And high-fiber foods tend to take longer to eat and to be less energy dense, which means they have fewer calories for the same volume of food. 1 This type of fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material. 2  It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 3  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium.
Tweet. Fruit, vegetables, nuts, seeds and pulses are all good sources of fibre. But with cereal-based foods such as breakfast cereals, pasta, rice and bread, the amount of fibre depends on how much of the outer layer of the grain has been stripped away in the milling and refining process. 
High-fibre foods: Top 10 natural sources of dietary fibre. Fibre is important for digestive health, and because it makes you feel full, it can help with weight loss. The NHS advises getting about 18g of fibre a day, but most people only eat about 14g. Here are 10 good sources of fibre: 1  Beans. 2  All beans are good, whether baked beans, beans like kidney beans in chilli or beans in salads. 3  Half a tin of baked beans (200g) is 7g of fibre. 4  Wholegrain and wholemeal. 5  Skip white bread and pasta, look out for wholegrain and wholemeal on the labels. 6  Brown or wholegrain rice.
High-fiber foods. by Anne Harding. Fiber can lower blood sugar, cut cholesterol, and may even prevent colon cancer and help you avoid hemorrhoids. If it were a drug, the world would be clamoring for it. But few people are getting enough. Women should get about 25 grams a day and men at least 35 to 40, but the average person gets just 15 grams a day
Most plant-based foods, such as oatmeal and beans, contain both soluble and insoluble fiber. However, the amount of each type varies in different plant foods. To receive the greatest health benefit, eat a wide variety of high-fiber foods. 1 This type of fiber dissolves in water to form a gel-like material. 2  It can help lower blood cholesterol and glucose levels. 3  Soluble fiber is found in oats, peas, beans, apples, citrus fruits, carrots, barley and psyllium.