Possums are quadrupedal diprotodont marsupials with long thick tails. The smallest possum, indeed the smallest diprotodont marsupial, is the Tasmanian pygmy possum, with an adult head-body length of 70 mm and a weight of 10 g. The largest is the bear cuscus that may exceed 7 kg. Possums are typically nocturnal and at least partially arboreal. Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: possum (Noun). Any of marsupials in several families of the order Diprotodontia of Australia and neighboring islands. possum (Noun). Popular form for opossum, a marsupial of the family Didelphidae of the Americas.
At POSSUMS PLUS we, at every inspection, check for possum entry/exits and rodent activity before giving you a full and extensive oral report on what is getting in, making noise and from where, before we do any work, and at the completion, feel confident enough in the results to give you a full 12 month guarantee….. This will usually leave a few of the wiser rats to survive, and in just a few short months you will be back where you started…still with a rat colony. What’s more, they may be bait shy to the poison as a whole. In other words, THEY KNOW WHAT IT IS, and won’t touch it as a result.
correct spelling: opossum(why the o..nobody knows). a furry four legged creature that insists on running directly in front of your car while youre rockin out to journey then all of a sudden your friends in the back seat just scream POSSUUUMMMM!! then the thing looks right at you, makes you swerve, and disappears. 1.) the act of a girl faking she is asleep after 1-2 drinks at a party to avoid the creepy guy in the corner that has been trying to get with her all night. After Mike was getting a little grabby with Betty, she decided she would have to have to pull a possum, so she curled up into a ball and went to sleep.
Not to mention the safety concerns of having a possum grow too large. They can be little a difficult handling. Duel use animals. - The domesticated female possum is used in the paint brush hair business. They can easily be used in the milk product lines. Finally the older ones can be used for reducing world hunger program. Possum Milk Ice Cream. New from the research and development of the Bill Bob Jones Farms.
Possum. 1.) the act of a girl faking she is asleep after 1-2 drinks at a party to avoid the creepy guy in the corner that has been trying to get with her all night. After Mike was getting a little grabby with Betty, she decided she would have to have to pull a possum, so she curled up into a ball and went to sleep.
Breeding Norwegian Forest cats in Somerset, UK. Old Possum is now in an old house in a village in Somerset, South West England-a big upheavel after 25 years in the mountains of Tirol, Austria. The cats travelled wonderfully well and accepted their new home very quickly. Sadly it was only possible to bring 5 breeding cats and five Old Age Pensioners, and a lot of cat organisation was needed. Lennart is now happily in his own house and enclosure in the orchard. The name Old Possum's Practical Cats is taken from T.S.Eliot's book of verses-which includes McCavity's a Mystery Cat... on which the now world-famous musical Cats is based.
Karin Fossum (born 1954) is a Norwegian author of crime fiction, often referred to as the Norwegian queen of crime. Karin Mathisen was born on 6 November 1954 in Sandefjord in Vestfold county, Norway. She currently lives near Oslo. Fossum debuted as a poet with Kanskje i morgen, her first collection published in 1974 when she was just 20.
They are raised in specially constructed air conditioned possum houses. We shear them 2 times a year and only keep the stomach hair. I consider this to be the highest quality fur on the planet. A domesticated Possum is about 5 times size larger than your common variety possum. Duel use animals. - The domesticated female possum is used in the paint brush hair business. They can easily be used in the milk product lines. Finally the older ones can be used for reducing world hunger program. Possum Milk Ice Cream. New from the research and development of the Bill Bob Jones Farms.
However the latter is very unfortunate, as possums are highly destructive to the ecosystem. Possums were originally introduced to New Zealand from Australia in the mid-1830’s to establish a fur trade. Possum fur is often mixed with merino to make super warm and lightweight clothing. Possum fur is even used to line garments used in the Arctic and environments with similar conditions. So quite frankly as communities I think we need to turn off to the possums ‘cuteness’ and the guilt in killing them and instead wage war against them, just as the communities on the Peninsula have done, which is a good example of how all, (native wildlife and residents), are benefiting from it.