No, it can be different for each individual. Your symptoms will differ depending on the location of the pinched nerve. For example, your pain may remain centered in your lower back. For someone else, it may run down the back of each leg or it may affect only one leg. Sometimes the pain can go all the way down to the feet and toes. Yes, serious nerve damage can occur with sciatica. The pain from sciatica is the result of very real damage to your sciatic nerve. Usually, this damage is only minor and will heal once the pinched nerve is relieved. In all probability it will not result in permanent nerve damage, but the possibility does exist.
Common Sciatica Symptoms. Usually, sciatica only affects one side of the lower body and the pain often radiates from the lower back all the way through the back of the thigh and down through the leg. 1  See Types of Sciatic Nerve Pain.
Answer: No, it can be different for each individual. Your symptoms will differ depending on the location of the pinched nerve. For example, your pain may remain centered in your lower back. For someone else, it may run down the back of each leg or it may affect only one leg. Sometimes the pain can go all the way down to the feet and toes. 
Tingling: Tingling and numbness that affects half of the body (which most people mean as including an upper limb, a lower limb, one side of the trunk, and sometimes one half of the face) can be caused by a problem in the brain or spinal cord. A pinched nerve can not cause those sorts of problems. Pinched nerve: Each nerve in the back supplies only one part of the body with feeling and motor control. See this link for more explantation: http://www.Nlm.Nih.Gov/medlineplus/ency/article/000442.Htm the shorter answer is no; a pinched nerve will not affect the whole side of the body.
A pinched nerve is a nerve under pressure. This pressure often comes from surrounding bone or soft tissues. A nerve under enough pressure will lose its ability to carry accurate signals, and its wayward signals can cause a variety of sensations in the body. For example, when a nerve is pinched or compressed, it can trigger the nerve to falsely signal pain.
A pinched nerve occurs when too much pressure is applied to a nerve by surrounding tissues — such as bones, cartilage, muscles or tendons. This pressure disrupts the nerve's function, causing pain, tingling, numbness or weakness. A pinched nerve can occur anywhere in your body. A herniated disk in your lower spine, for example, may put pressure on a nerve root, causing pain that radiates down the back of your leg (sciatica). Likewise, a pinched nerve in your wrist can lead to pain and numbness in your hand and fingers (carpal tunnel syndrome). 
This article details sciatica symptoms which exist only on the left of the body. These symptoms may occur throughout the left side, in the buttocks, leg and foot or may be limited to just one area of the left side anatomy. 
WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms pain or discomfort, sudden numbness or weakness on one side of body and weakness including Peripheral neuropathy, Pinched nerve or stinger, and Cervical (neck) spinal stenosis. 
Diagnosed with pinched nerve in should that affects left side of body and neck. 1. Get help from a doctor now ›. Depends: pinched nerves in the neck my affect the arm on the side of the nerve root compression. Symptoms may include shooting pain from the neck to the arm, forearm and/or hand. Pinched nerve: Each nerve in the back supplies only one part of the body with feeling and motor control. See this link for more explantation: http://www.Nlm.Nih.Gov/medlineplus/ency/article/000442.Htm the shorter answer is no; a pinched nerve will not affect the whole side of the body.
The cause can: A pinched nerve on one side of the spine is caused by a structural architectural problem, this can be of the disc, the foramen, the facet joint the central canal. When a nerve is pinched on one side, it is not uncommon to have compensatory or associated pain on the other side. Pinched nerve: Each nerve in the back supplies only one part of the body with feeling and motor control. See this link for more explantation: http://www.Nlm.Nih.Gov/medlineplus/ency/article/000442.Htm the shorter answer is no; a pinched nerve will not affect the whole side of the body.