Beta-lactam antibiotics. The Beta-lactam antibiotics are a broad class of antibiotics that includes the penicillins and the cephalosporins. Ceftriaxone (Rocephin), a cephalosporin, is sometimes given intravenously to patients with Lyme disease
Beta-lactam antibiotics, which are named for the beta-lactam ring in their chemical structure, 1 include the penicillins, cephalosporins and related compounds. Bacterial resistance against beta-lactam antibiotics is increasing at a significant rate and has become a common problem in primary care medicine. There are several mechanisms of antimicrobial resistance to beta-lactam antibiotics.
beta-lactamase. [-lak′təmāz]. Etymology: lactam, a cyclic amide, ase, enzyme. a bacterial enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of the beta-lactam ring of some penicillins and cephalosporins, producing penicilloic acid and rendering the antibiotic ineffective. An enzyme produced by many species of bacteria that disrupts the four-membered β-lactam ring of penicillin and cephalosporin groups of antibiotics, destroying their antimicrobial activity. The ability of an organism to produce a β-lactamase may be chromosomal and constitutive or a plasmid-associated acquired property.
Beta-lactam antibiotics include penicillins, cephalosporins and related compounds. As a group, these drugs are active against many gram-positive, gram-negative and anaerobic organisms. Bacterial resistance against beta-lactam antibiotics is increasing at a significant rate and has become a common problem in primary care medicine. There are several mechanisms of antimicrobial resistance to beta-lactam antibiotics.
Beta lactam antibiotics are antibiotic drugs with a beta lactam ring in their molecular structure. Numerous classes of antibiotics fall into this family, including drugs effective against Gram positive and Gram negative bacterial organisms. Doctors widely prescribe these drugs for patients with a range of infections. Both gram negative and gram positive antibiotics are part of the beta lactam class of antibiotics. Bacterial cultures may be used to identify the effectiveness of antibiotics for a specific infection. Drugs effective against Gram positive and Gram negative bacterial organisms are considered beta lactam
The β-lactam ring is part of the core structure of several antibiotic families, the principal ones being the penicillins, cephalosporins, carbapenems, and monobactams, which are, therefore, also called β-lactam antibiotics. Nearly all of these antibiotics work by inhibiting bacterial cell wall biosynthesis. A β-lactam (beta-lactam) ring is a four-membered lactam. (A lactam is a cyclic amide). It is named as such because the nitrogen atom is attached to the β-carbon relative to the carbonyl
β-lactam antibiotics (beta-lactam antibiotics) are a broad class of antibiotics, consisting of all antibiotic agents that contain a β-lactam ring in their molecular structures. This includes penicillin derivatives (penams), cephalosporins (cephems), monobactams, and carbapenems. Most β-lactam antibiotics work by inhibiting cell wall biosynthesis in the bacterial organism and are the most widely used group of antibiotics.
Beta-Lactam. Beta-lactam antibiotics kill bacteria that are surrounded by a cell wall. Bacteria build cell walls by linking molecules together—beta-lactams block this process. Without support from a cell wall, pressure inside the cell becomes too much and the membrane bursts. 
Structure of the Month: Beta-lactamase Enzyme Structures. Beta-lactamases are enzymes produced by some Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria and are responsible for resistance to a broad class of-beta-lactam antibiotics, including penicillin. There are several groups and classes of beta-lactamases that result in antibiotic resistance.