He had a sizable string of hits between 1960 and 1967 for Liberty Records, including Take Good Care of My Baby, Run to Him (both co-written by Carole King), Rubber Ball, Devil or Angel, The Night Has a Thousand Eyes, Stayin' In, More Than I Can Say and Come Back When You Grow Up. Mini Bio (1). Contrary to popular belief, Bobby Vee was not one of the flood of Italian-American rockers to come out of the New York-New Jersey-Philadelphia area in the '50s and '60s.
Go back and remember some of them, songs like Take Good Care Of My Baby, Rubber Ball, Come Back When You Grow Up, The Night Has A Thousand Eyes and Run To Him. In a career that's spanned almost half of a century, Bobby Vee has released over 35 albums, yielding six gold records. Bobby Vee today, sounds as good as ever! His latest release in 2005 is titled The Last Of The Great Rhythm Guitar Players.
On April 29, 2012, Bobby Vee announced on his website that, a year ago, he had been diagnosed with early stages of Alzheimer's disease and, as a consequence, would withdraw from the music business. In 1963, Bobby Vee released a tribute album on Liberty Records called I Remember Buddy Holly. In the liner notes, Vee recalled Holly's influence on him and the events surrounding Holly's death: Like so many other people, I became a Buddy Holly fan the very first time I heard him sing.
Ploof, who at one time toured with Vee, offers electrifying performances of the golden greats that took Vee to the heights of Pop stardom: “Take Good Care of My Baby,” “Run to Him,” “The Night Has A Thousand Eyes,” “Come Back When You Grow Up Girl,” “Rubber Ball,” “Devil or Angel,” “Charms,” and many more. 8:00pm. One of the longest lasting teen idols of the 1960s is brought to life in this one-man show that takes you up the charts, through America and behind the music of Bobby Vee.
In 1967, he came back in a big way. Come Back When You Grow Up, by Bobby Vee and the Strangers, soared to number three and re-established Bobby Vee in the minds of rock music fans. The breakthrough song for Bobby Vee was Devil Or Angel, one that made it to the top ten late in 1960, when Vee was only seventeen. He followed it a short time later with another top ten tune Rubber Ball, which had been co-written by Gene Pitney.
The Best Of Bobby Vee (EMI MANHATTAN DIDX 2473 CDP 7 48412 2) [1987] The Night Has A Thousand Eyes Suzie Baby Devil Or Angel Punish Her Take Good Care Of My Baby Rubber Ball How Many Tears Please Don't Ask About Barbara Come Back When You Grow Up Beautiful People. 
When Vee recorded Come Back When You Grow Up in 1967, he was joined by a band called the Strangers. Vee was also a pioneer in the music video genre, appearing in several musical films as well as in the Scopitone series of early film-and-music jukebox recordings. In 1963, Bobby Vee released a tribute album on Liberty Records called I Remember Buddy Holly. In the liner notes, Vee recalled Holly's influence on him and the events surrounding Holly's death: Like so many other people, I became a Buddy Holly fan the very first time I heard him sing.
$20 dollars at the door. One of the longest lasting teen idols of the 1960s is brought to life in this one-man show that takes you up the charts, through America and behind the music of Bobby Vee. 8:00pm
Vee's long string of hits from 1959-1970 also include Take Good Care Of My Baby (1961), Rubber Ball (1961), The Night Has A Thousand Eyes (1963), and Come Back When You Grow Up (1967, as Bobby Vee And The Strangers). 
Come Back When You Grow Up  is a song written by Martha Sharp and performed by Bobby Vee and The Strangers. The song reached #3 on the Billboard Hot 100 in 1967. The song appeared on his 1967 album, Come Back When You Grow Up. The song was produced by Dallas Smith and arranged by William Hood. The song was ranked #15 on Billboard magazine's Top Hot 100 songs of 1967.