Leptospirosis in Dogs. Leptospirosis is an infection of bacterial spirochetes, which dogs acquire when subspecies of the Leptospira interrogans penetrate the skin and spread through the body by way of the bloodstream. 
Pyoderma in Dogs. When a dog's skin is cut or wounded, there is an increased risk of infection. Pyoderma refers to a bacterial infection of the skin that is very common in dogs. Lesions and pustules (inflamed pus-filled swelling) on the skin, and in some cases partial hair loss, often characterize the infection. Treatment is typically given on an outpatient basis and prognosis is good.
Infectious skin diseases of dogs include contagious and non-contagious infections or infestations. Contagious infections include parasitic, bacterial, fungal and viral skin diseases. One of the most common contagious parasitic skin diseases is Sarcoptic canine scabies. Non-contagious skin infections can result when normal bacterial or fungal skin flora is allowed to proliferate and cause skin disease. Common examples in dogs include Staphylococcus intermedius pyoderma, and Malassezia dermatitis caused by overgrowth of Malassezia pachydermatis.
Staphylococcus is a name of a group of bacteria commonly found on the skin. Dermatitis is a term that means inflammation of the skin. This condition is also referred to as Staphylococcal pyoderma or Staph. pyoderma. Pyoderma is a medical term for bacterial skin infection. 
Report Abuse. The infection itself would not be contagious, but if your dog has earmites your other dog could as well. Yeast infections or bacteria would not be contagious. It might be a good idea to have your other dog's ears checked as well, though, judt to be safe. Kim at: http://www.peaceful-organic-planet.com/n... 
Advertisement. Dogs are susceptible to a variety of bacterial and viral infections, some of which can even prove fatal for them. Skin, eye, ear, urinary tract, kidneys, nervous system and even the respiratory system of the dog is vulnerable to such bacterial infections. Plague in Dogs: A bacterial infection caused by the Yersinia pestis, plague is usually transmitted in dogs by rodent fleas. Dogs can become infected through the bite of infected fleas or by eating a rodent, rabbit or other animal carrying infected fleas.
Bacterial skin infections also known as pyodermas are caused by Staphylococci (Staph bacteria) and affect both dogs and cats. The Staph bacteria usually live harmlessly on the skin and as a result of itching, infection occurs. The common symptoms include yellow pustules, scabs, reddened skin and lesions. 
Infections in dogs can develop due to both viral and bacterial agents. Bad bacteria are unicellular organisms that survive and multiply in both animals and humans and cause various bacterial infections that develop in different parts of the body. 
The two most common causes of URT infection in dogs are bacterial and viral. These infectious pathogens are highly contagious, especially when dogs congregate in high-density areas such as pet stores, animal shelters, boarding facilities, dog parks or dog shows, and even more so when those areas are not kept clean. 
Consult Your Veterinarian. Bacterial skin infections often occur in dogs secondarily to underlying skin allergies, hormonal (endocrine) disorders, or other internal disease. Through a combination of shampoo therapy and antibiotics, the prognosis for your dog's recovery from a bacterial skin infection is excellent. 