Download. Personal Identity and Culture Culture – the way a group of people live. Culture includes the way people dress, make shelters, eat, communicate, find companionship, work, learn, are entertained, and find justice in the society. 
The word culture is used because it implies the integrated pattern of human behavior that includes thoughts, communications, actions, customs, beliefs, values and institutions of a racial, ethnic, religious or social group. The word competence is used because it implies having the capacity to function effectively. 
Split and merge into it. Answer by Soph236. Confidence votes 107. Culture includes the religion(s), language, food, traditions, art, literature, the lifestyle, flag, music, and clothes. Culture excludes anything that has to do with climate, (weather, temperature, etc.) and economy. (anything that has to do with money.). 
Tylor said that culture is that complex whole which includes knowledge, belief, art, law, morals, custom, and any other capabilities and habits acquired by man as a member of society.. Of course, it is not limited to men. Women possess and create it as well. The second layer of culture that may be part of your identity is a subculture. In complex, diverse societies in which people have come from many different parts of the world, they often retain much of their original cultural traditions.
Cultural diversity is the quality of different cultures. Cultural diversity includes language, race, customs, food, dress, religion, beliefs, values, ethnicity, gender, politi … cal views and knowledge. Culture diversity also includes the various elements of Australian Indegnious culture. 21 people found this useful. Culture includes the religion(s), language, food, traditions, art, literature, the lifestyle, flag, music, and clothes. Culture excludes anything that has to do with climate, … (weather, temperature, etc.) and economy. (anything that has to do with money.).
Culture is the characteristics and knowledge of a particular group of people, defined by everything from language, religion, cuisine, social habits, music and arts. Many countries are largely populated by immigrants, and the culture is influenced by the many groups of people that now make up the country. This is also a part of growth. As the countries grow, so does its cultural diversity.
Culture (/ˈkʌltʃər/) is, in the words of E.B. Tylor, that complex whole which includes knowledge, belief, art, morals, law, custom and any other capabilities and habits acquired by man as a member of society.. In the humanities, one sense of culture, as an attribute of the individual, has been the degree to which they have cultivated a particular level of sophistication, in the arts, sciences, education, or manners.
When used as a count noun a culture, is the set of customs, traditions and values of a society or community, such as an ethnic group or nation. In the humanities, one sense of culture, as an attribute of the individual, has been the degree to which they have cultivated a particular level of sophistication, in the arts, sciences, education, or manners.
The word culture has many different meanings. For some it refers to an appreciation of good literature, music, art, and food. For a biologist, it is likely to be a colony of bacteria or other microorganisms growing in a nutrient medium in a laboratory Petri dish. The second layer of culture that may be part of your identity is a subculture. In complex, diverse societies in which people have come from many different parts of the world, they often retain much of their original cultural traditions.