Article V of the United States Constitution provides authority and instructions for amending the Constitution. Amendments can be proposed by Congress or by constitutional convention. Congress then decides how to ratify the amendment if approved by Congress or convention. The amendment can either be ratified by three-fourths of state legislatures or by conventions in three-fourths of the states. Congress can propose an amendment to the Constitution by passing a joint resolution. Two thirds of both the House of Representatives and the Senate must approve the resolution. 1  The resolution does not have to be approved by the President, who has no required role in the amendment process.
This list contains proposed amendments to the United States Constitution. Article Five of the United States Constitution provides for two methods for proposing and two methods for the ratification of an amendment. Beginning in the early 20th century, Congress has usually, but not always, stipulated that an amendment must be ratified by the required number of states within seven years from the date of its submission to the states in order to become part of the
There are two ways in which a formal amendment to the Constitution  can be proposed. The first method is to have the amendment  introduced to the house by a member of congre … ss. The second method  is to have the states meet in a national convention and have the  amendment introduced to the house in this manner. The US Congress (i.e. the legislative branch of the federal government). can propose amendments to the US Constitution. A 2/3 vote in both houses is required. (The president does not have sign proposed amendments and he can not veto them.).
Upon adoption by the Congress or a national convention, an amendment must then be ratified by three-fourths of the state legislatures or by special state ratifying conventions in three-fourths of the states. The decision of which ratification method will be used for any given amendment is Congress' alone to make. Beginning in the early 20th century, Congress has usually, but not always, stipulated that an amendment must be ratified by the required number of states within seven years from the date of its submission to the states in order to become part of the Constitution.
A constitutional amendment is proposed by two-thirds vote of both  houses and Congress or a constitutional convention called by  Congress on petition of two-thirds of the 50 … states. The US Congress (i.e. the legislative branch of the federal government). can propose amendments to the US Constitution. A 2/3 vote in both houses is required. (The president does not have sign proposed amendments and he can not veto them.).
An amendment may be proposed by a two-thirds vote of both the House of Representatives and the Senate or by a national convention called by Congress at the request of two-thirds of the state legislatures. The latter procedure has never been used. Beginning in the early 20th century, Congress has usually, but not always, stipulated that an amendment must be ratified by the required number of states within seven years from the date of its submission to the states in order to become part of the Constitution.
There have been close to 10,000 amendments proposed in Congress since 1789, and only a fraction of a percentage of those receive enough support to actually go through the constitutional ratification process. The success rate of an amendment to become part of the Constitution is less than 1%. An amendment may be proposed by a two-thirds vote of the House of Representatives and the Senate or a national convention called by Congress at the request of 2/3 of the state legislatures. The latter procedure has never been used.
The Amendment process is the formal way to change the Constitution. An amendment may be proposed by two-thirds vote of both houses of Congress or by a convention called by Con … gress at the request of two-thirds of the state legislatures. Ratification of an amendment takes three-fourths of the states to approve. Either Congress by a 2/3 vote or 2/3 of the state legislatures can call for such a convention to be held. This method has never been tried. In either case, a proposed amendment does not become law until 3/4 of the states ratify it. The amendment process is given in Article V of
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: An amendment to the U.S. Constitution can be proposed in one of two ways: 1) A 2/3 vote of both Houses of Congress 2) A constitutional convention, called by Congress, upon petition by 2/3 of the States. (Known as an Article V Convention, this method has never been used). Source(s): DrJay · 5 years ago.
The two ways that an amendment can be proposed is; *The Congress propose an amendment by 2/3 vote in both houses. And second *The state 2/3 of the states 34 out of 50 can ask Congress to call national convention to propose an amendment. Either Congress by a 2/3 vote or 2/3 of the state legislatures can call for such a convention to be held. This method has never been tried. In either case, a proposed amendment does not become law until 3/4 of the states ratify it. The amendment process is given in Article V of the Constitution.