If your landlord hasn't carried out the repairs after a reasonable period of time, there are several things you can do. Before deciding what action to take, you need to think about: 1  how easily you can be evicted. 2  how serious the problem is. 3  whether you want to stay in the property. Report the repair to your landlord. Report the problem as soon as possible to your landlord-even if it's very minor you should still let your landlord know about it. If the repair is urgent report the repair in writing and phone your landlord to make sure the work is carried out as quickly as possible.
As well as making the unit habitable before you occupy the property, your landlord must repair any problems that arise during the lease term. How long your landlord has to fix a plumbing problem -- and whether he's obligated to fix the problem -- depends on the nature of the issue and the lease terms. Your landlord is not obliged to fix the defect unless he knows about it. As a first step, notify your landlord in writing, and preferably by certified mail, that he has a duty to fix the plumbing problem under landlord-tenant law. Your landlord now has a reasonable time to make the repair.
5. Contact your local council to request an inspection if your landlord ignores or refuses your request to carry out necessary repairs. The council should be able to offer help and advice and may tell the landlord to do repairs. Use Shelter's template letter to write to ask the council to inspect your home. Do repairs yourself and deduct the cost from your rent. You do not have the right to withhold your rent if your landlord refuses to do repairs. If you don't pay rent, the landlord could take steps to evict you. If the landlord has failed to do repairs, you can arrange for the repairs to be done and then deduct the cost from your rent
Ask the council for help to get repairs done. Contact your local council to request an inspection if your landlord ignores or refuses your request to carry out necessary repairs. The council should be able to offer help and advice and may tell the landlord to do repairs. Do repairs yourself and deduct the cost from your rent. You do not have the right to withhold your rent if your landlord refuses to do repairs. If you don't pay rent, the landlord could take steps to evict you. If the landlord has failed to do repairs, you can arrange for the repairs to be done and then deduct the cost from your rent
Repair times depend on the type of repair. If your toilet is not flushing, your landlord usually has one working day to come and repair it. But they have 3 working days to mend a loose bannister rail and 7 working days to mend a broken extractor fan in your bathroom or kitchen. These times are set by law, not by your landlord. Sometimes there may be circumstances which your landlord or the contractor has no control over which make it impossible to do the repair within the maximum time (for example, severe weather). In these circumstances your landlord may need to make temporary arrangements and to extend the maximum time.
The tenant must allow the landlord to enter the property to carry out repairs. The landlord must give the tenant reasonable notice (at least 48 hours written notice) of his wish to enter the property. 
6. You do not have the right to withhold your rent if your landlord refuses to do repairs. If you don't pay rent, the landlord could take steps to evict you. If the landlord has failed to do repairs, you can arrange for the repairs to be done and then deduct the cost from your rent. Do repairs yourself and deduct the cost from your rent. You do not have the right to withhold your rent if your landlord refuses to do repairs. If you don't pay rent, the landlord could take steps to evict you.
The other contractor has the same length of time to carry out the repair as the landlord's main contractor. If they do not carry out the repair within the time limit set, you will be entitled to another £3 compensation for each working day until the repair has been completed. This amount can add up to a maximum compensation payment of £100 for any one repair.