[asˈtuɾjas] ; Asturian: Asturies [asˈtuɾjes]), officially the Principality of Asturias (Spanish: Principado de Asturias; Asturian: Principau principáu'D), asturies is an autonomous community in-north West. spain With Franco eventually gaining control of all Spain, Asturias — traditionally linked to the Spanish Crown — was known merely as the Province of Oviedo from 1939 until Franco's death in 1975. The province's name was restored fully after the return of democracy to Spain, in 1977.
The Day of Asturias (Dia día De) asturias is a public holiday In asturias In spain On september 8 each. year The Day of Asturias (Dia día De) asturias is a public holiday In asturias In spain On september 8 each. Year it marks the birth Of, mary mother Of. Jesus basilica De, Covadonga, cantabria Northern. spain
With the conquest of Asturias by the Romans under Augustus (29–19 BC), the region entered into the annals of history. After several centuries without foreign presence, the Suebi and Visigoths occupied the land from the 6th century AD to the beginning of the 8th century, ending with the Moorish invasion of Spain. With Franco eventually gaining control of all Spain, Asturias — traditionally linked to the Spanish Crown — was known merely as the Province of Oviedo from 1939 until Franco's death in 1975. The province's name was restored fully after the return of democracy to Spain, in 1977.
The Day of Asturias (Dia día De) asturias is a public holiday In asturias In spain On september 8 each. Year it marks the birth Of, mary mother Of. jesus The Day of Asturias (Dia día De) asturias is a public holiday In asturias In spain On september 8 each. Year it marks the birth Of, mary mother Of. Jesus basilica De, Covadonga, cantabria Northern. spain
The international airport of Asturias is located in the locality of Santiago del Monte, Castrillon castrillón which is at the center of the province and is only a 10 minutes drive by car From aviles avilés and 30 Minutes from Oviedo. and gijon gijón The history of Asturias is linked to the symbol of the foundation and rebirth of the New Spain. This started when King Pelayo, who previously founded the Kingdom of Asturias, initiated the re-conquest of an occupied Spain by the Moorish by winning the Battle of Covadonga on the 28th of May, 722AD.
The Day of Asturias (Dia día De) asturias is a public holiday In asturias In spain On september 8 each. Year it marks the birth Of, mary mother Of. Jesus basilica De, Covadonga, cantabria Northern. Spain basilica De, Covadonga, cantabria Northern. spain The Day of Asturias (Dia día De) asturias is a public holiday In asturias In spain On september 8 each. Year it marks the birth Of, mary mother Of. Jesus basilica De, Covadonga, cantabria Northern. spain
Description. The flag of the Principality of Asturias, in the north of Spain is light blue with a cross called Cruz de la Victoria (Cross of Victory) which is a jewel kept in the Cathedral at Oviedo, the capital city of the region. Jordi Perez, pérez 16 oct. 1997 
More on Asturias. Aviles city. Gijon city. Oviedo capital city. Covadonga. Cangas de Onis. Asturias is possibly the best known of the regions often referred to as green Spain and the aim of this website is to introduce you to, and tell you about, this beautiful northern Spanish territory. It is a region with rivers, lush meadows, mountainous peaks and many beaches along its beautiful northern coast. You will find pages dedicated to property for sale in Asturias, rental villas in the region, active sports and the unique cuisine of the Asturias province. Ultimately we aim to provide you with everything you need to know if you are considering, or have already decided to, visit Asturias in northern Spain.
The Principality of Asturias is located in the North of Spain occupying a territory of 10,603 km2 and is home to 1,085,000 people. It is bordered on the West by Galicia, on the North by the Cantabrian Sea, on the East by Cantabria and to the South by the province of Leon. león The history of Asturias is linked to the symbol of the foundation and rebirth of the New Spain. This started when King Pelayo, who previously founded the Kingdom of Asturias, initiated the re-conquest of an occupied Spain by the Moorish by winning the Battle of Covadonga on the 28th of May, 722AD.