Cocaine and methamphetamine can significantly damage normal function in the blood-brain barrier; in turn, this damage can open up the brain to infection and other processes that can produce severe or life-threatening changes in brain health. The blood-brain barrier (BBB) is a network of tiny blood vessels (capillaries) that separates the interior of the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord) from the rest of the body’s circulatory system.
Blood–brain barrier disruption (BBBD) causes profound changes in drug distribution in the central nervous system (CNS). (A, C) Control experiments (5 animals per group) demonstrate that the procedure of intraarterial catheterization and drug delivery ... Lack of significant effect of blood–brain barrier disruption (BBBD) on brain water content and modest effect of parenchymal edema on drug uptake. (A) Calibration curve for the determination of water content and determination of water brain content ...
It can be difficult to treat some brain tumours with chemotherapy drugs because the brain is protected by the blood brain barrier. This is a natural filter within the body. It only allows certain substances through from the blood to the brain tissues. Some drugs can cross the blood brain barrier. Some brain tumours damage the blood brain barrier so that the chemotherapy can enter the brain. Chemotherapy can be given as tablets or capsules or as injections into a vein. It is possible to inject some drugs into the fluid that circulates around the brain and spinal cord. 
Purpose: Increased blood–brain barrier (BBB) permeability is radiologically detectable in regions affected by drug-resistant epileptogenic lesions. Brain penetration of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) may be affected by BBB damage. Lack of significant effect of blood–brain barrier disruption (BBBD) on brain water content and modest effect of parenchymal edema on drug uptake. (A) Calibration curve for the determination of water content and determination of water brain content ...
Keywords: Phenytoin, MRI, Multiple drug resistance, Drug delivery, Drug design, Pharmacokinetics. The blood–brain barrier (BBB) protects the brain from harmful substances in the bloodstream, while supplying the brain with the nutrients required for proper function. The endothelial cell cerebrovasculature lining also regulates brain penetration of drugs. Lack of significant effect of blood–brain barrier disruption (BBBD) on brain water content and modest effect of parenchymal edema on drug uptake. (A) Calibration curve for the determination of water content and determination of water brain content ...
To explain this, scientists thought that a Blood-Brain-Barrier (BBB) which prevents materials from the blood from entering the brain existed. More recently, scientists have discovered much more about the structure and function of the BBB. Functions of the BBB. The BBB has several important functions: 1  Protects the brain from foreign substances in the blood that may injure the brain. 2  Protects the brain from hormones and neurotransmitters in the rest of the body. 3  Maintains a constant environment for
The blood–brain barrier allows the passage of water, some gases, and lipid-soluble molecules by passive diffusion, as well as the selective transport of molecules such as glucose and amino acids that are crucial to neural function. The blood–brain barrier is composed of high-density cells restricting passage of substances from the bloodstream much more than do the endothelial cells in capillaries elsewhere in the body.
11.1 Blood-brain Barrier Maintains the Constancy of the Brain's Internal Environment. The blood-brain barrier (BBB) protects the neural tissue from variations in blood composition and toxins. Elsewhere in the body the extracellular concentrations of hormones, amino acids and potassium undergo frequent fluctuations, especially after meals, exercise or stressful times. Discovery of blood-brain barrier. The discovery of the BBB dates back more than 100 years when, in the 1880s, Paul Ehrlich observed that intravenous administration of certain dyes (e.g. trypan blue) stained all organs except the brain and the spinal cord.
The blood–brain barrier (BBB) is a highly selective permeability barrier that separates the circulating blood from the brain extracellular fluid (BECF) in the central nervous system (CNS). The blood–brain barrier is composed of high-density cells restricting passage of substances from the bloodstream much more than do the endothelial cells in capillaries elsewhere in the body.