Dilute acids. You will have used some dilute acids at school, such as hydrochloric acid, sulphuric acid and nitric acid. Their bottles are labelled with the warning symbol for ' irritant '. This means that if any of them makes contact with your skin, it will become red or blistered
These food acids are available from the natural resources except phosphoric acid. The presence of acid in a fruit determines many things like food preservation and jam and jelly setting etc. These acids have antioxidant and preservation properties as well. The most commonly used food acid is citric acid. Phosphoric acid is used in aerated drinks along with carbon dioxide. The other category of the unwholesome food acids consist of oxalic acid, benzoic acid, uric acid and the tannic acid. The common acids in foods that are considered to be unwholesome acids are found in food products like tea, cocoa, pepper, rhubarb, spinach, etc. Body usually has its own systems for dealing with such acids in case they are consumed in excess. It usually processes these acids and pushes them out as waste materials.
An acid (from the Latin acidus/acēre meaning sour) is a chemical substance whose aqueous solutions are characterized by a sour taste, the ability to turn blue litmus red, and the ability to react with bases and certain metals (like calcium) to form salts. Aqueous solutions of acids have a pH of less than 7. Acids are used as additives to drinks and foods, as they alter their taste and serve as preservatives. Phosphoric acid, for example, is a component of cola drinks. Acetic acid is used in day-to-day life as vinegar. Carbonic acid is an important part of some cola drinks and soda. Citric acid is used as a preservative in sauces and pickles. Tartaric acid is an important component of some commonly used foods like unripened mangoes and tamarind
Vinegar is typically 4–18% acetic acid by mass. Vinegar is used directly as a condiment, and in the pickling of vegetables and other foods. Table vinegar tends to be more diluted (4% to 8% acetic acid), while commercial food pickling employs solutions that are more concentrated. Acetic acid is a weak monoprotic acid. In aqueous solution, it has a pKa value of 4.76. Its conjugate base is acetate (CH 3 COO −). A 1.0 M solution (about the concentration of domestic vinegar) has a pH of 2.4, indicating that merely 0.4% of the acetic acid molecules are dissociated.
Citric acid is used in soft drinks, teas, juices, and other beverages to create a slightly tart, refreshing flavor and balance sweetness. The acidic pH of citric acid also makes it useful as a preservative. Since many bacteria are unable to grow in an acidic environment, citric acid is often added to jams, jellies, candy, canned foods, and even meat products as a preservative. Because citric acid can be made in a powder form, it can be used in dry foods when a sour flavor is desired.
Bases, called alkalis if an OH-is involved, accept protons. Alkalis do this by donating hydroxide ions. These can accept protons from acids to make water. Lye (sodium hydroxide) is a familiar strong base, and it is used to make soap, and to clean drains by making soap out of the grease that has clogged the drain. The soap then rinses away down the drain.
All these food acids are added to make the food flavors sharper. Besides adding a distinct tangy flavor acids in foods also act as antioxidants and preservatives. This is the reason why vinegar is used to preserve fruits and vegetables in the form of pickles. The common acids in foods that are considered to be unwholesome acids are found in food products like tea, cocoa, pepper, rhubarb, spinach, etc. Body usually has its own systems for dealing with such acids in case they are consumed in excess. It usually processes these acids and pushes them out as waste materials.
Citric acid is an organic acid that is a component of all aerobic living organisms — most abundantly, and not surprisingly, in citrus fruit. This weak acid has been used as an additive in processed foods for more than 100 years as a preservative, a sour flavoring, or an emulsifying agent. Citric acid used to be made from fruit. Now it’s more commonly made from feeding sugars to black mold and processed using sulfuric acid. Citric acid is in just about all processed foods. It’s also often found in kitchen cleaners, and does a great job removing mineral deposits from chrome.
Vinegar. Acetic acid (also called ethanoic acid) is a weak organic acid. Unlike a lot of other food additives, acetic acid is commonly used in home cooking. Acetic acid is what gives vinegar its distinctive sour taste and pungent smell. Common table vinegar is diluted acetic acid. Usually it is about 4% to 8% by mass. 