Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Type O-negative blood is called the universal donor type because it is compatible with any blood type and doesn't have any antigens. This is basically just saying that a person with O negative blood could donate their blood to a needy person because it it is universal. I hope this helped. 
AB isn't the universal donor, O is. AB is a universal acceptor because RBC (red blood cells) contain the A and B antigen (simply put, it is a marker on the cell) so the body a … ccepts any blood type because it recognizes the antigens. O is the universal donor because it contains no antigens, so no immune system will attack it.
Type O– blood is considered the “universal donor” because it can be donated to people of any blood type. Type AB+ blood is considered the “universal recipient” because people with this type can receive any blood type. 
Their red blood cells can be given to a patient with any ABO or Rh blood type, because there are no A, B, or Rh factor antigens on the donor's red blood cells for the antibodies of a patient with a different blood type to react with. . A universal recipient is a person who has an AB blood type and is Rh positive. They can receive red blood cells of any ABO or Rh type with no risk of a serious hemolytic transfusion reaction due to ABO or Rh incompatibility.[ Source ].
In general, Rh negative blood is given to Rh-negative patients, and Rh positive blood or Rh negative blood may be given to Rh positive patients. 1  The universal red cell donor has Type O negative blood type. 2  The universal plasma donor has Type AB blood type. 
universal donor, a person with type O, Rh factor negative red blood cells. Packed red blood cells of this type may be used for emergency transfusion with minimal risk of incompatibility. Blood plasma is not universal plasma. See also blood donor, blood group, transfusion.
Blood type O+ is the universal donor. This is because it does not contain any antigens on it. For example, if type A blood is put in a person with type B blood, the antigens will produce antibodies to fight it off. O, having no antigens on it, can be a universal donor because no antibodies will be produced to fight the entering O blood in the bloodstream. Source(s): My biology class last year. O-is the universal blood type because it does not have any antigens on it. O+ has the Rh factor (Rhesus Factor) antigen on it, which means that blood types that do not have the Rh antigen will fight the blood off. Source(s): Bio 20 class.
At one time, type O negative blood was considered the universal blood donor type. This implied that anyone — regardless of blood type — could receive type O negative blood without risking a transfusion reaction. Even then, small samples of the recipient's and donor's blood are mixed to check compatibility in a process known as crossmatching. In an emergency, however, type O negative red blood cells may be given to anyone — especially if the situation is life-threatening or the matching blood type is in short supply.
Type O blood is called the universal donor because an individual with any other blood type can receive it. The the problem is, individuals with Type O blood can only recei … ve type O blood. This combination makes demand for this blood very high. AB is a universal acceptor because RBC (red blood cells) contain the A and B antigen (simply put, it is a marker on the cell) so the body a … ccepts any blood type because it recognizes the antigens. O is the universal donor because it contains no antigens, so no immune system will attack it.
People with type O Rh D negative blood are often called universal donors. O Rh D negative is the universal donor because it does not contain any antigens (markers). When you … get donated blood that has antigens that are not the same as those of the recipient the blood will clot in the body. AB is a universal acceptor because RBC (red blood cells) contain the A and B antigen (simply put, it is a marker on the cell) so the body a … ccepts any blood type because it recognizes the antigens. O is the universal donor because it contains no antigens, so no immune system will attack it.