The Ovarian Teratoma is one of the several types of forms of the germ cell tumor. There are three specific sub-types of this kind of tumor, each of them possessing qualities that distinguish them from the other two. This type of tumor shares many of the traits of the mature cystic teratoma in terms of size and the variety of tissue that may be found in the body of the tumor. However, it is more frequently seen in children and young women, and tends to be very solid. An immature teratoma may be benign or malignant.
Monodermal Teratoma. Unlike the mature cystic teratoma, this type of cancer is mainly composed of one type of tissue, although there may be slight traces of other tissue found within the tumor itself. A monodermal teratoma may be malignant or benign and can occur in girls as well as adult women. Immature Teratoma. This type of tumor shares many of the traits of the mature cystic teratoma in terms of size and the variety of tissue that may be found in the body of the tumor. However, it is more frequently seen in children and young women, and tends to be very solid. An immature teratoma may be benign or malignant.
Testicular teratoma, unlike ovarian teratoma, is often aggressive in its biological behaviour, and often exists as part of testicular mixed germ cell tumours. Pure testicular teratomas account for only 4-9% of all testicular tumours. Immature teratomas are more common in the testes, although they are rare as pure tumours, usually associated with other non-seminomatous cell types (e.g. embryonal cell carcinoma, choriocarcinoma, yolk sac tumour) as part of a testicular mixed germ cell tumour 1-2.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A teratoma is a tumor with tissue or organ components resembling normal derivatives of more than one germ layer. Although the teratoma may be monodermal or polydermal (originating from one or more germ layers), its cells may differentiate in ways suggesting other germ layers. Usually, a teratoma will contain no organs but rather one or more tissues normally found in organs such as the brain, thyroid, liver, and lung.
Ovarian teratoma: Also called a dermoid cyst of the ovary, this is a bizarre tumor, usually benign, in the ovary that typically contains a diversity of tissues including hair, teeth, bone, thyroid, etc. A dermoid cyst develops from a totipotential germ cell (a primary oocyte) that is retained within the egg sac (ovary). 
teratoma. a type of germ cell tumor made up of a number of different types of tissue from one or more of the germ cell layers; it is usually found in the ovary or testis and may be either benign or malignant. 
A teratoma is a type of germ cell tumor which contains several different types of cells, caused when germ cells run amok and start replicating where they shouldn't. To be considered a true teratoma, the tumor must contain all three layers of the germ cells. Germ cells are very unique because they can divide and differentiate into anything, from the upper layers of the skin to the internal organs of the body.
Sacrococcygeal teratoma (SCT) is a type of tumor known as a teratoma that develops at the base of the coccyx (tailbone) and is thought to be derived from the primitive streak. 