You can install what’s called a hot rod, which is a electric heating element that replaces the anode rod in your water heater. This rod uses 400 watts of AC power to heat the element and assists the gas portion of the heater with recovery.
We regularly run two 1500 watt heaters in a 30 amp RV. Just be sure that each heater is on s different circuit. A 30 amp RV will usually have a pair of 15 or 20 amp breakers installed. If you go to run another applaince on the circuit with the heater, it will trip once you exceed the 15 or 20 amp breaker limit.
First of all let’s talk briefly about what your RV converter does. When you plug your RV into an electrical source, or when you use the onboard generator, the converters job is to reduce 120 volts AC down to 12 volt DC to supply power to all of the 12 volt appliances and accessories in the RV.
You need to know how much power (watts/amps) each appliance is using. We happen to have a motorhome with a 50-amp power cord. Sometimes we are in a campground that only supplies 30-amp connections. When we are in these campgrounds we can not run both of our air conditioners ------- even if it is hot. Our two roof air conditioners pull about 15-amps each.
This 12-volt system powers many of the appliances in your RV and you best know which ones. It is your 12-volt house batteries that allow you to wash your hands and flush the toilet in your RV when you are not connected to city water, the water pump is a 12-volt pump.
If your batteries are fully charged this can be too much for a float charge and over time it will deplete the water level in the batteries cells. This is why it’s important to check the water level in your batteries on a regular basis, especially when you leave the RV plugged in for extended periods of time.
According to our RV owners manual, an RV water heater will use about 10 amps, a roof top air conditioner uses 13 - 15 amps, and an electric space heater uses 10 - 15 amps. Any appliance that has an element to heat or cool takes lots of amps.
Yes, RV's have two types of electricity that power equipment in your RV. There is high voltage as in 120-volts AC like you use in your stick & brick house. Then there is a 12-volt DC (Direct Current) system that many of your appliances use to operate.