The Cost of Owning a Lab. Everyone loves Labrador Retrievers (especially Lab puppies) and the companionship that they bring to our lives. However, puppies do not stay small forever and a Labs' companionship does come at a price.
Black Lab. The Labrador Retriever (also known as the Labrador or Lab) descends from the Newfoundland Dog and the St. John s Water Dog in Newfoundland, Canada. It was bred to hunt in water and pull boats, which is evident to this day in its natural love for water. Contrary to popular opinion, the Labrador Retriever s name likely derives from the Portuguese lavradores or Spanish labradores, both of which mean farm worker, rather than the Labrador region of Canada.
The Labrador Retriever (also known as the Labrador or Lab) descends from the Newfoundland Dog and the St. John s Water Dog in Newfoundland, Canada. It was bred to hunt in water and pull boats, which is evident to this day in its natural love for water. Contrary to popular opinion, the Labrador Retriever s name likely derives from the Portuguese lavradores or Spanish labradores, both of which mean farm worker, rather than the Labrador region of Canada.
The Labrador Retriever, also known as simply Labrador or Lab, is one of several kinds of retrievers, a type of gun dog. Labradors are athletic, playful, and the most popular breed of dog by registered ownership in Australia, Canada, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, and the United States (since 1991). 1 Coat: The Labrador Retriever's coat should be short and dense, but not wiry. 2  The coat is water-resistant, so the dog does not get cold when taking to water in the winter. 3  That means that the dog naturally has a slightly dry, oily coat. 4  Acceptable colours are black, yellow, and chocolate.
Depends. From a reputable breeder it could be anywhere from about $600-$2000. Sorry, but you will likely NOT find a well bred dog from a breeder who does all of the appropriate showing and genetic health testing for under $600. Those tests, showing and field trials cost money and the cost is passed along in the price of the pup from the breeding.
A black lab may come to a very expensive rate. As they are amazing, smart animals they may cost from 300$-1300$.It is so worth it though. We just got a baby black lab and he is awesome. Trust me ... you should really look into it. -snoopdoggie dog The cost all depends on the bloodlines of the dog. Champion bloodline pups may very well cost over $1000 but any pure and AKC registered lab pup will cost at least $200-$300 just with their paperwork and first shots and deworming.
The cost of the puppy depends on the parentage and pedigree. Here is the list of various variable influencing the cost of a puppy: · If the puppy is registered with kennel club of India the cost will be higher. · If the parents or the pedigree showing in registration papers are champion the cost will be even higher. · If you are buying from a reputed breeder and if he is promising about the quality, the price can go up. But speaking practically a good Labrador with out papers shall cost around 5k in the market. (Can be plus minus 1.5k depending on the health). Sometimes Male puppies are costlier than female puppies.
Black Lab Puppies for Sale-Shipped Worldwide! Finding the right Black Lab puppy can be dog gone hard work. PuppyFind® provides a convenient and efficient means of selecting and purchasing the perfect Black Lab puppy (or Black Lab puppies) from the comfort of your home, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. It was bred to hunt in water and pull boats, which is evident to this day in its natural love for water. Contrary to popular opinion, the Labrador Retriever s name likely derives from the Portuguese lavradores or Spanish labradores, both of which mean farm worker, rather than the Labrador region of Canada.
you should really look into it.   -snoopdoggie dog   The cost all depends on the bloodlines of the dog. Champion bloodline pups may very well cost over $1000 but any pure and AKC registered lab pup will cost at least $200-$300 just with their paperwork and first shots and deworming. 
The price of a Labrador puppy will vary from breeder to breeder, and from place to place. At the moment (in 2015) in the UK you can pay anything from £650 to £850 for a well bred, health tested Labrador. In the USA as a rough guide, you are looking at $800 to $1200. The cost of keeping a Labrador. The reality is, you are also going to need to fork out a chunk of your wages each week on keeping your pooch happy and healthy. Obviously you will have taken the cost of food into consideration, but it is a good idea to budget for insurance too.