How long can a human live without water How long can human live without food? A human can't live without food for 3 or 4 days (however your body type is,) and a human can't live without water for 2 or 3 days.
A pigeon can go, if necessary, a long time without food or even water. Most birds need a constant water source and will visit every day. Pigeons are also unusually skilled in finding water and food sources, and rarely have trouble.
Your body can go 3 minutes without air, 3 days without water, 3 months without food...u can go longer than 3 months but your body will start to corrupt and your system will no … t be able to digest anything. http://wiki.answers.com/How_long_can_a_humen_survive_without_food#ixzz16l7LvVHA. + 30 others found this useful.
Not Long..... Baby birds need to be fed every 20-30 minutes for 12 hours of the day. You need to get some dog food or cat food and soak it in water to the consistency of oatmeal. In a pinch you can use canned food but dry is better in the long run.
Be sure to hang feeders in August or September for winter feeding. Also, remember that if you start feeding birds for the winter, they count on you to keep them stocked all winter long. Water is crucial, and scarce, in winter Though food is scarce in winter, dehydration can be a bigger threat to birds than starvation.
Not very long. Young kittens can die within 24 or 48 hours without food or water. Older kittens will survive a little longer than this as they are bigger and have bodily reser … ves. If your kitten stops eating for 24 hours, it is highly recommended to take it to the vets.
Before attempting to rescue a baby bird, you must make sure it is truly orphaned. Observe a nest you THINK might be abandoned for 2 hours before rescuing. Parents may fly in and out of nest within seconds while feeding. Nestlings can live 24 hours without food.
If you're lucky you can survive up to 3-4 days without water.But usually it's 2-3 days. With water intake and doing no heavy physical a man can survive 30 to 80 days ,People … of the Jain religion undergo fasting and fasting for a period of 8 days is very common in them.