Please note that the default rates are the rates based out in New Delhi. For the rates in you city please change the rates in the diesel rate box. Fuel Cost Calculator or simply Fuel cost estimator calculates the amount of money which you need to pay for car fuels e.g. diesel, CNG, petrol, etc... excluding the car rent which is required to be paid to the owner of the car. In India, most car owners rent out their car on daily basis, which excludes the fuel cost. 
Numbeo allows you to calculate gas prices and gas consumption using information about: 1  fuel efficiency (car consumption for 100km or miles per gallon). 2  distance you are planning to travel (or cities which you intend to visit on your journey). By using car consumption and travel distance, our tool shows you approximately how much gasoline (petrol) your car will consume, an approximate price and also estimates how much will your car depreciate during that trip.
For example, the cost of the fuel could be 96.9, the amount could be 10 pounds, and the distance covered could be 80 miles. To convert between Litres per 100KM and Miles Per Gallon, please provide a value and click on the required button. Fuel-Economy.co.uk has gone to great lengths to ensure the accuracy of the information presented, however please be aware it is provide only as a guide. To calculate how much a journey will actually cost in fuel, please provide the miles covered, the estimated MPG for your vehicle, and the price of your petrol in pence.
Use the fuel cost calculator below to compare the costs of two cars. Select vehicles using the drop-down lists, then enter mileage, frequency and MPG criteria and your results will appear. Based on your selections, the results will show cost per mile and weekly, monthly and annual fuel costs for both vehicles. To change these figures to a figure more representative of your local area, or to see the impact of a change in the fuel prices, the drop-downs provided can be used to alter the prices. These will be reflected in the fuel cost calculator results.
You would like to save money on gas so you're considering trading in your gas guzzler for a more fuel efficient car. This calculator shows how long will it take before you pay off the balance of a vehicle purchase and really begin saving money. Based on the EPA's MPG data and assuming 45% highway driving and 55% city driving. If you have selected a vehicle and entered your ZIP Code, we pre-populate each variable field in the Financial Calculators with our estimates. These amounts are based on Edmunds.com True Market Value® prices and standard industry data, but the values that apply to your purchase or lease are likely to vary.
Using the fuel cost calculator. After having made your vehicle selection, there is an option to enter the mileage, frequency and MPG type. The mileage and frequency should reflect the period you typically use to monitor the fuel useage-a typical driver will travel 10,000 miles in a year. To change these figures to a figure more representative of your local area, or to see the impact of a change in the fuel prices, the drop-downs provided can be used to alter the prices. These will be reflected in the fuel cost calculator results.
To calculate how much fuel you'll need for a given journey, please provide the distance in miles you will be covering on your journey, and the estimated MPG of your vehicle. To work out what MPG you are really getting, please provide the cost of the fuel, how much you spent on the fuel, and how far it took you. Fuel-Economy.co.uk has gone to great lengths to ensure the accuracy of the information presented, however please be aware it is provide only as a guide. To calculate how much a journey will actually cost in fuel, please provide the miles covered, the estimated MPG for your vehicle, and the price of your petrol in pence.
The fuel cost calculator results are based on the current UK average petrol, diesel and electricity prices; these are editable if these do not reflect the prices you are paying in your area, or you wish to see the impact of a change in fuel prices. To change these figures to a figure more representative of your local area, or to see the impact of a change in the fuel prices, the drop-downs provided can be used to alter the prices. These will be reflected in the fuel cost calculator results.
Quickly and easily calculate the price of your journey using our petrol cost calculator. Simply enter the details of your journey above. Whether you want to estimate how much it will cost to fill up your car or to charge a friend for a lift, finding the price for the amount of petrol that is needed for your journey has never been simpler! (Please remember: all prices that are calculated are ESTIMATES ONLY).
How we calculate fuel costs. Fuel cost is calculated by multiplying a vehicle's fuel economy by fuel price and the distance driven. The calculator, which can be used for all vehicle types, provides two results – one based on official fuel economy data and the other representing real-world driving. To change these figures to a figure more representative of your local area, or to see the impact of a change in the fuel prices, the drop-downs provided can be used to alter the prices. These will be reflected in the fuel cost calculator results.