A test taken at least 12 weeks (3 months) after exposure to the virus provides highly accurate results. In rare cases, a person could take up to six months to test positive using standard tests, and that is almost always a person with a severely compromised immune system due to another disease, such as leukemia.
The window period depends on the type of HIV test that you take. For antibody tests, if you get a negative result within 3 months of your most recent possible exposure, you need to get tested again at the 3-month mark. For combination antibody/antigen tests or RNA tests, that timeframe may be shorter.
The results of an HIV test are usually ready within a two week period. If they are ready in a short time, you will have to recheck in a week or two. If your result shows negative, and if you have not engaged in any risky behaviour for the last 6 months, you are not currently infected with HIV.
The window period is the time it takes for your body to produce HIV antibodies after you have been exposed to HIV. In more than 97% of people, this period lasts between 2 and 12 weeks. In a very small number of people, the process takes up to 6 months.
Most people develop HIV antibodies within 3 months after they are infected with HIV. But the window period can vary depending on the HIV test used. In general, anyone who has a negative result on an HIV antibody test within 3 months of a possible exposure to HIV should have the test repeated in 3 months.
The actual blood test for HIV generally takes 2-7 days to process and for you to get your results. In some cases certain sexual health clinics provide 'rapid HIV' tests where you can have a test and get your results on the same day.
These antigen/antibody combination tests can find HIV as soon as 3 weeks after exposure to the virus, but they are only available for testing blood, not oral fluid. The rapid test is an immunoassay used for screening, and it produces quick results, in 30 minutes or less.
If the rapid test is positive, it is still necessary to send blood to a laboratory for a Western blot to be sure the rapid test result is correct. Home tests are mailed to a laboratory, and results return in one to two weeks. RNA testing results usually take a few days to a week, depending on the lab.
Antibody tests (Rapid tests) — give a positive result based on antibodies to HIV, not the virus itself. 1  2-8 weeks (up to 2 months) after infection, most people will have enough antibodies to test positive. 2  12 weeks (3 months) after infection, about 97% of