The test itself will take about 30-60 minutes. Placing the electrodes usually takes 20 minutes, but can take up to an hour, so the entire procedure may take about one to 2 hours. If you have an ambulatory EEG, brain activity is recorded for 24 hours or more. 
An electroencephalogram (EEG) may be done to: 1  Diagnose epilepsy and see what type of seizures are occurring. 2  EEG is the most useful and important test in confirming a diagnosis of epilepsy. 3  Check for problems with loss of consciousness or dementia. An electroencephalogram (EEG) may be done to: 1  Diagnose epilepsy and see what type of seizures are occurring. 2  Check for problems with loss of consciousness or dementia. 3  Help find out a person's chance of recovery after a change in consciousness. 4  Find out if a person who is in a coma is brain-dead. 5  Study sleep disorders, such as narcolepsy. 6  Watch ...
The 24-hour ambulatory EEG test uses a small digital recorder. Electrodes are applied to the scalp, as with any EEG test, but the patient is sent home with the electrodes in place. A diary is used by the patient to record the activities of the day and any symptoms that may occur during the 24-hour period of EEG testing. During Your EEG Test. During your EEG test, you will sit in a reclining chair or lie down on an exam table in a softly lit room. The technologist will measure certain points on your head. He or she will use a special pencil to mark the spots where the electrodes will be placed on your scalp for the EEG test.
An electroencephalogram (EEG) is a test that measures and records the electrical activity of your brain. Special sensors (electrodes) are attached to your head and hooked by wires to a computer. An electroencephalogram (EEG) may be done to: 1  Diagnose epilepsy and see what type of seizures are occurring. 2  Check for problems with loss of consciousness or dementia. 3  Help find out a person's chance of recovery after a change in consciousness. 4  Find out if a person who is in a coma is brain-dead. 5  Study sleep disorders, such as narcolepsy. 6  Watch ...
For shorter EEGs, you can expect it to take anywhere from 45 minutes to an hour to get the EEG set up, another hour for the test, and usually a quicker 15 or 30 minutes to take everything off. For long EEGs, you may be asked to stay in the hospital so your child can be monitored and video taped. That way if something abnormal shows up on their test there is video to correspond with it. But most often you will be sent home with an ambulatory. EEG.
Ambulatory electroencephalography (AEEG) monitoring is a relatively recent technology that allows prolonged electroencephalographic (EEG) recording in the home setting. Its ability to record continuously for up to 72 hours increases the chance of recording an ictal event or interictal epileptiform discharges. 
An Ambulatory EEG is a diagnostic test physician's use to use to look at the electrical activity in a patient's brain. What is the difference between a Routine EEG and an Ambulatory EEG? A routine EEG requires the patient to attend a scheduled appointed, where electrodes are applied to the scalp. 
The doctor can see seizure activity as well as sleep stages during your EEG. The ambulatory EEG is a very expensive (~$20,000) piece of equipment that allows us to monitor a 24 hour period of brain waves but allows you to continue with most of your daily activities. Do not get it wet. Do no allow the box to get hit or banged against other objects. 
An ambulatory electroencephalogram (EEG) is a neurodiagnostic test that measures and records the electrical activity in your brain. Unlike an EEG, an ambulatory EEG allows an extended recording in a patient’s home. While a traditional EEG records for 1 – 2 hours, an ambulatory EEG has the ability to record continuously for up to 72 hours, increasing the likelihood that abnormal electrical activity in the brain can be recorded.