1 It is aluminum potassium sulfate. 2  This is the type of alum that you find in the grocery store for pickling and in baking powder. 3  It is also used in leather tanning, as a flocculant in water purification, as an ingredient in aftershave and as a treatment to fireproof textiles. 4  It's chemical formula is KAl(SO 4) 2. 
It is soluble in water and is mainly used as a flocculating agent in the purification of drinking water and waste water treatment plants, and also in paper manufacturing. Aluminium sulfate is sometimes referred to as a type of alum. Alums are double sulfate salts, with the formula AM(SO 4) 2·12H 2O, where A is a monovalent cation such as potassium or ammonium and M is a trivalent metal ion such as aluminium. Aluminium sulfate may be made by adding aluminium hydroxide, Al(OH) 3, to sulfuric acid, H 2 SO 4 :
Aluminium sulfate, alternatively spelled either aluminum or sulphate, is a chemical compound with the formula Al 2 (SO4) 3. Aluminium sulfate may be made by adding aluminium hydroxide, Al(OH) 3, to sulfuric acid, H 2 SO 4 :
From aluminum foil, you will make a useful compound commonly called alum (specifically, aluminum potassium sulfate, KAl(SO 4) 2). There are many practical uses of alum, the product you will be isolating today. It is used industrially in manufacturing dyes and dyeing fabric. 
The products are easy-to-dissolve into solution, with aluminum sulfate especially suited for drinking water and paper sizing. Kemira Aluminum Sulfate solution (KEMIRA ALS) iron-free aluminum sulfate in solution (48%) is a coagulant for water treatment based on trivalent (Al 3+) aluminum compounds. It can be used for water and wastewater clarification, papermaking, and many other industrial applications. Aluminum Sulfate solutions can also be made available with smaller amounts of iron in the formulation (KEMIRA AVL). Kemira Dry Ferric Aluminum Sulfate is a granulated (KEMIRA AVR), easy-to-dissolve coagulant, that can be used for most wastewater treatment processes.
When the aluminum sulfate comes into contact with water, it forms aluminum hydroxide and a much diluted sulfuric acid solution, which alters the soil acidity. Gardeners who plant hydrangeas apply this property to change the flower color (blue or pink) of the hydrangeas since this plant is very sensitive to soil pH. Some of the most common uses of aluminum sulfate are found within the home. The compound is often found in baking soda, although there’s some controversy over whether it’s appropriate to add aluminum to the diet.
Uses of Aluminum Sulfate. Aluminum sulfate has many different uses in day-to-day life, as well as being used in several essential industries. In fact, you probably come into contact with it on a daily basis without even knowing it! Household Uses. Some of the most common uses of aluminum sulfate are found within the home. The compound is often found in baking soda, although there’s some controversy over whether it’s appropriate to add aluminum to the diet.
Any form of aluminum sulfate could be called alum, including toxic versions of the chemical. However, the type of alum you find used for pickling and in deodorant is potassium alum, KAl(SO 4) 2 ·12H 2 O. Sodium aluminum sulfate is a type of alum that is used in commercial baking powder.
Aluminium sulfate is sometimes used to reduce the pH of garden soil, as it hydrolyzes to form the aluminium hydroxide precipitate and a dilute sulfuric acid solution. An example of what changing the pH level of soil can do to plants is visible when looking at Hydrangea macrophylla. Aluminium sulfate may be made by adding aluminium hydroxide, Al(OH) 3, to sulfuric acid, H 2 SO 4 :