Skillset. Practice for certification success with the Skillset library of over 100,000 practice test questions. We analyze your responses and can determine when you are ready to sit for the test. MCSA or Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate is a career defining certification offered by the Microsoft Corporation. For example: if you opted for the MCSA: Windows Server 2012 Solutions Associate certification program then you will gain knowledge in three different areas, which are installation and Configuration of Windows Server 2012, administering Windows Server 2012, and configuration of advanced Windows Server 2012 1.
To become a Microsoft Technology Associate, you must pass an exam in one of the following tracks, depending on your interests and career goals. Frequently asked questions. The following questions specifically address Microsoft Technology Associate (MTA) certifications. Visit the Certification overview or Exam policies and FAQ pages for answers to general questions regarding Microsoft Certification or the exams.
Salary. According to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) as of May 2010, computer and information systems managers earned an average of $115,780 a year. The top 10 percent earned more than $166,400 while the bottom 10 percent earned less than $71,420. The BLS found that the average yearly income for those working in finance and insurance was $118,010 in May 2010. IT professionals who work in manufacturing, government or health care earned, on average, $117,050, $110,030 and $101,840, respectively.
MCSA certifications validate the skills to implement cloud-optimized technology solutions using a single Microsoft product. Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate (MCSA) certifications are the foundation of Microsoft’s new generation of cloud-optimized credentials. These figures from the IT Skills & Salary Report is the best salary data available for Microsoft’s next-gen MCSA and MCSE certifications, but keep in mind these credentials are relatively new so the lower the respondent count the less reliable the data.
Microsoft Technology Associate (MTA) is a set of entry-level IT certification exams offered by Microsoft. 
Microsoft Technology Specialist Salary. Microsoft Technology Specialist average salary is $87,723, median salary is $85,100 with a salary range from $72,686 to $126,690. Microsoft Technology Specialist salaries are collected from government agencies and companies. Each salary is associated with a real job position. Microsoft Technology Specialist salary statistics is not exclusive and is for reference only.
Microsoft Technology Associate (MTA) is an introductory Microsoft certification for individuals considering a career in technology. Frequently asked questions. The following questions specifically address Microsoft Technology Associate (MTA) certifications. Visit the Certification overview or Exam policies and FAQ pages for answers to general questions regarding Microsoft Certification or the exams.
The recommended entry level path for students is Microsoft Technology Associate (MTA) skills development. After students are well versed in the basics, they can begin preparing for the Microsoft Certified Solutions Associate (MCSA) certification or the Microsoft Certified Solutions Developer (MCSD) certification. Frequently asked questions. The following questions specifically address Microsoft Technology Associate (MTA) certifications. Visit the Certification overview or Exam policies and FAQ pages for answers to general questions regarding Microsoft Certification or the exams.
$41,000. Average Microsoft Technology Associate Consultant salaries for job postings in Burlington, MA are 25% higher than average Microsoft Technology Associate Consultant salaries for job postings nationwide.