In addition to using bit.ly as a tool integrated into third-party tools you can also use it directly at the bit.ly website. Simply enter your long URL and click the Shorten button. You can copy the resulting bit.ly link and use it in your tweets, in your e-mail, or even on your website.
So if you have a page at http://www.my-internet-isp.com/~myusername/my-links-page.html, you can use the URL http://tinyurl.com/3/my-links-page.html and going to this URL will forward the visitor to the page in your website. http://www.my-internet-isp.com/~myusername.
Instructions. Open the web page you wish to add to a Tweet. Select the URL in your browser's address bar. Access the home page of one of the URL-shortening websites, such as Bit.ly, TinyURL.com or Ow.ly. Paste the URL you copied previously into the address entry area of the URL-shortening website.
Alternatively, to shorten a link visit a site like http://bit.ly/ and paste the full length web. address, click on the shorten button. A shortened URL will be created, all you have to do is click on the shortened URL and it will automatically copy the link so that you can paste it in Twitter.
Add TinyURL to your browser's toolbar. Click and drag the following link to your links toolbar. Once this is on your toolbar, you'll be able to make a TinyURL at the click of a button. By clicking on the toolbar button, a TinyURL will be created for the page you are currently at.
How to Shorten a Link for Twitter. If you want to Tweet a link in Twitter, chances are you want to shorten the URL of the link because of the 140 character limit in Tweeter. There are many URL shortener services online, and Google URL Shortener is one of them. Let's go through how to do this if you are doing this for the first time.
If you want to Tweet a link in Twitter, chances are you want to shorten the URL of the link because of the 140 character limit in Tweeter. There are many URL shortener services online, and Google URL Shortener is one of them. Let's go through how to do this if you are doing this for the first time.