Acronym. A word or name formed by combining the first letters or groups of letters from a phrase. For example, SCUBA comes from s elf-c ontained u nderwater b reathing a pparatus. A real or mythical person from whose name a place, a thing, or an event is taken. The earl of Sandwich, for example, the first person to ask for meat between two slices of bread, is the eponym of the modern sandwich.
D.). In the case of most acronyms, each letter is an abbreviation of a separate word and, in theory, should get its own termination mark. Such punctuation is diminishing with the belief that the presence of all-capital letters is sufficient to indicate that the word is an abbreviation. Some apparent acronyms or other abbreviations do not stand for anything and cannot be expanded to some meaning. Such pseudo-acronyms frequently develop as  orphan initialisms ; an existing acronym is redefined as a non-acronymous name, severing its link to its previous meaning.
An acronym is an abbreviation, used as a word, which is formed from the initial components in a phrase or a word. Usually these components are individual letters (as in NATO or laser) or parts of words or names (as in Benelux). Some apparent acronyms or other abbreviations do not stand for anything and cannot be expanded to some meaning. Such pseudo-acronyms frequently develop as  orphan initialisms ; an existing acronym is redefined as a non-acronymous name, severing its link to its previous meaning.
acronym a word formed from the initial letters of other words, e.g. Anzac and yuppie. It is recorded from the mid 20th century, and derives from the Greek word akron ‘end, tip’ plus the combining form-onym, ultimately from the Greek onoma ‘name’. Cite this article. Some lexicologists regard the acronym as a kind of initialism; others see it as contrasting with the initialism, in which case that term is restricted to abbreviations that are pronounced only as sequences of letters: for example, BBC as ‘bee-bee-cee’. In this entry, acronyms and initialisms are treated as distinct
Why, then, you are not to see anywhere, what you don't see in fact; you are not to have anywhere, what you don't have in fact. 
Full Definition of ACRONYM. : a word (as NATO, radar, or laser) formed from the initial letter or letters of each of the successive parts or major parts of a compound term; also: an abbreviation (as FBI) formed from initial letters: initialism. — ac·ro·nym·ic \ˌa-krə-ˈni-mik\ adjective.
Note: We have 73 other definitions for FACTS in our Acronym Attic. 1  Abbreviation Database Surfer. « 2  Previous. 3  Next 4  ». FACT-HN. 5  FACT-P. 6  FACTA. 7  FACTC. 8  FACTE. 9  FACTER. 10  FACTL. 11  FACTNet. 12  FACTOR. 13  FACTR. 14  FACTS I. 15  FACTS-Care. 16  FACTT. 17  FactTS. 18  FACU. 19  FACUG. 20  FACV. 21  FACVB. 22  FACVSc. 23  FACWA. 
While initial letters are commonly used to form an acronym, the original definition was a word made from the initial letters or syllables of other words, for example UNIVAC from UNIVersal Automatic Computer. In English, acronyms pronounced as words may be a 20th-century phenomenon. Some apparent acronyms or other abbreviations do not stand for anything and cannot be expanded to some meaning. Such pseudo-acronyms frequently develop as  orphan initialisms ; an existing acronym is redefined as a non-acronymous name, severing its link to its previous meaning.
An ABBREVIATION formed from the first letters of a series of words and pronounced as one word: NATO from North Atlantic Treaty Organization, pronounced ‘Nay-toe’: radar from radio detection and ranging, pronounced ‘ray-dar’. Some lexicologists regard the acronym as a kind of initialism; others see it as contrasting with the initialism, in which case that term is restricted to abbreviations that are pronounced only as sequences of letters: for example, BBC as ‘bee-bee-cee’. In this entry, acronyms and initialisms are treated as distinct