Continental drift was a theory that explained how continents shift position on Earth's surface. Set forth in 1912 by Alfred Wegener, a geophysicist and meteorologist, continental drift also explained why look-alike animal and plant fossils, and similar rock formations, are found on different continents. Although Wegener's continental drift theory was discarded, it did introduce the idea of moving continents to geoscience. And decades later, scientists would confirm some of Wegener's ideas, such as the past existence of a supercontinent joining all the world's landmasses as one.
Click Here to return to the search form. Alfred Wegener brought together several lines of evidence to support his theory of continental drift. One is quite simple -- that the continents look like they could fit together, much like puzzle pieces that have drifted apart. 
This slideshow explains Wegener's theory. Earth around 200 million years ago, at the time of Pangaea. Wegener’s evidence for continental drift was that: 1  the same types of fossilised animals and plants are found in South America and Africa. 2  the shape of the east coast of South America fits the west coast of Africa, like pieces in a jigsaw puzzle. 
Antonio Snider-Pellegrini's Illustration of the closed and opened Atlantic Ocean (1858). Continental drift is the movement of the Earth's continents relative to each other, thus appearing to drift across the ocean bed. The speculation that continents might have 'drifted' was first put forward by Abraham Ortelius in 1596. 
Continental Drift-Evidence. The evidence which gave rise to the theory of continental drift -- more correctly called plate tectonics -- includes the following: ► The coasts of the continents surrounding the Atlantic ocean could, if the continents were moved closer, fit together like a jigsaw puzzl
Wegener gathered evidence from different scientific fields to support his ideas about continental drift. He studied land features, fossils, and evidence of climate change. In 1915, Wegener published his evidence for continental drift in a book called The Origin of Continents and Oceans. Wegener also used fossils to support his argument for continental drift. A fossil is any trace of an ancient organism that has been preserved in rock. For example, Glossopteris (glaw sahp tuh ris) , was a fernlike plant that lived 250 million years ago.
1. Discuss some of the evidence that Alfred Wegener used to support his idea of continental drift. 2. Describe the theory of plate tectonics. 3. List the evidence and describe the evidence used to support the plate tectonics theory. 4. Discuss mantle convection as a possible cause of plate movements. 5. Compare and contrast the push-pull model.
In his work, Wegener presented a large amount of observational evidence in support of continental drift, but the mechanism remained elusive, partly because Wegener's estimate of the velocity of continental motion, 250 cm/year, was high. 
Wegener used fossil evidence to support his continental drift hypothesis. The fossils of these organisms are found on lands that are now far apart. [Figure3]. 1  Grooves and rock deposits left by ancient glaciers are found today on different continents very close to the equator. 