Pseudo-parallelism is the parallelism effect where a single  processor creates a illusion of parallel processing by switching  processes(or context) at very small intervals … such that it is  unnoticable to the user. Note that, it is possible that  when a multi-core processor is performing Real Parallelism, each  core might be performing Pseudo-parallelism amongst the  processes(or threads) it is currently running. 3 people found this useful.
ABSTRACT. A definition of the term pseudo-forgetting is presented. It is a theory related to psychology defined by American psychologist Elizabeth F. Loftus. It refers to a mental process when one attempts to recall something, but fail to do so. Creation of false memory as exemplified by psychologist Jean Piaget's accounts of a kidnapping; Vulnerability of memory to `post-event information' according to memory resercaher Elizabeth Loftus; Loftus' creation of whole memories as part of...
This phenomenon is called pseudo-forgiveness (or false forgiveness) and it often is the reason why people experience some serious mental, physical, and social health problems. Pseudo-forgiveness happens when the aggrieved party: 1. Doesn’t understand, deny, or minimize the harm that has been done to them. 2. Feels unjustly guilty. They blame themselves either for what happened to them, or for the fact that the guilty party feels bad (also see #4). There’s this very common misconception that such emotional states as forgiveness, love, and respect (or emotions in general) depend on one’s wish and willpower, not on other person’s actions or various environmental factors.
A pseudo alum is a double sulfate of the typical formula  ASO4·B2(SO4)3·22H2O,  where A is a divalent metal ion, such as cobalt (wupatkiite),  manganese (apjohnite), magn … esium (pickingerite) or iron  (halotrichite or feather alum), and B is a trivalent metal ion. 1 Know What Foods to Avoid on a Pseudo Gout Diet Pseudo gout, or CPPD (calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate deposition) is a rare form of arthritis that closely resembles gout in its symptoms.
CLICK TO PLACE YOUR ORDER. Pseudo-forgetting is when there is a block between your short term memory and your long term memory. Something we know something (such as a telephone number), but when we attempt to recall it and we fail, we conclude we have forgotten it. The fact is we may never have stored the material or it may have been incorrectly stored.
PSEUDO FORGETTING 1  : You never really learned the information initially! 2  You may have noticed the information and even held it briefly in your short-term memory. 3  You never rehearsed the information for storage in long-term memory. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Pseudo-forgetting is when there is a block between your short term memory and your long term memory. Something we know something (such as a telephone number), but when we attempt to recall it and we fail, we conclude we have forgotten it. 1 Know What Foods to Avoid on a Pseudo Gout Diet Pseudo gout, or CPPD (calcium pyrophosphate dihydrate deposition) is a rare form of arthritis that closely resembles gout in its symptoms.
A definition of the term pseudo-forgetting is presented. It is a theory related to psychology defined by American psychologist Elizabeth F. Loftus. Creation of false memory as exemplified by psychologist Jean Piaget's accounts of a kidnapping; Vulnerability of memory to `post-event information' according to memory resercaher Elizabeth Loftus; Loftus' creation of whole memories as part of...