Meta description tags, while not important to search engine rankings, are extremely important in gaining user click-through from SERPs. These short paragraphs are a webmaster’s opportunity to advertise content to searchers and to let them know exactly whether the given page contains the information they're looking for. Avoid Duplicate Meta Description Tags. As with title tags, it is important that meta descriptions on each page be unique. One way to combat duplicate meta descriptions is to create a dynamic and programmatic way to make unique meta descriptions for automated pages.
Meta Description-What Google Does With Your Meta Description. The meta description attribute (sometimes called a tag) is a largely undervalued facet of search engine marketing. A meta description is an HTML and XHTML element that describes your page to search engines. While the perceived (and real) importance of meta data has depreciated, the attribute still plays a significant role in SEO rankings. In this article, you'll learn: 
Part of the Search engine optimization (SEO) glossary: A meta description tag is a snippet of HTML code in a web page header that summarizes the content that is on the web page. The meta description is usually placed after the title tag and before the meta keywords tag. When optimizing a web page for search engines (SEO), it is considered a best practice to use meta description tags. Before Google and other search engines changed how much importance they place on meta description tags, the keywords in a meta description could influence ranking on a search engine results page (SERP).
The meta description tag in HTML is the 160 character snippet used to summarize a web page’s content. Search engines sometimes use these snippets in search results to let visitors know what a page is about before they click on it. 
The keywords and phrases you use in your Meta description tag may not affect your page's ranking in the search engines, but this tag can still come in handy in your overall SEO and social media marketing campaigns. 1. Meta Descriptions in the Search Results. People often think that whatever they put in their Meta description tag will be the default description that the search engines use under the clickable link to their site in the search results.
The meta description tag is designed to provide a brief description of your site which can be used by search engines or directories. The meta description tag takes the following form: When you write a meta description tag, you should limit it to 170 characters or 200 characters at most. You should pick a style and be consistent throughout your pages, writing a unique description for each page of your site. The Open Directory (DMOZ) also a detailed guide to writing descriptions. The meta description tag is intented to be a brief and concise summary of your page's content. Think of the Yahoo! directory. You see your site title followed by a brief description of your site or business.
Meta Description. Meta descriptions are HTML attributes that provide concise explanations of the contents of web pages. Meta descriptions are commonly used on search engine result pages (SERPs) to display preview snippets for a given page. Avoid Duplicate Meta Description Tags. As with title tags, it is important that meta descriptions on each page be unique. One way to combat duplicate meta descriptions is to create a dynamic and programmatic way to make unique meta descriptions for automated pages.
It's easy to write a meta description. Simply use the meta HTML tag with the name=description and the content= your description text. For example, the meta description for this page is: When you're writing your meta description, keep in mind the following tips: 1  Do accurately describe the resulting page. The meta description is a meta tag that is used to describe the current Web page. It provides a short summary of the page so that readers can decide whether the page is what they are looking for or looks interesting