Edit Page Last Edit: 1 year 9 months ago. You must have the Dawnguard DLC to obtain this quest. To start this quest you can do a few things one get a book called THE AETHERIUM WARS or you could just go straight to Arkngthamz which is located south of Dushnik Yal and thats southeast of Markarth. 
Lost to the Ages Forge Location. Travel to the Ruins of Bthalft. It is located southeast of Ivarstead, close to Treva's Watch. If it is not marked on your map, the easiest way to find it is to go to Treva's Watch (also southeast of Ivarstead) and travel straight west, past the river. That this is the real Aetherium Forge. You can prove this by forging something. You get the following objectives: (Optional) Search for Crafting MaterialsUse the Aetherium Forge Katria mentions that with the Aetherium Shards you collected, and the materials in this room, something can be forged.
The Aetherium Forge. The Aetherium Forge is a located beneath the Ruins of Bthalft and only accessible once all four Aetherium Shards have been assembled to form the Aetherium Crest. The over 4000-year-old forge is guarded by by Dwarven Constructs, including The Forgemaster. 
Publisert 1. feb. 2014. This video shows you how to get the Unique Artifacts found in the Lost to the Ages Quest crafted at the Aetherium Forge. This Quest is available in The Elder Scrolls V: Dawnguard DLC. Aetherrial Artifacts. Aetherial Staff (DO NOT CHOOSE THIS)! - Spawns a Dwemer Spider or Sphere for 60 seconds.
The Aetherium Crest. Aetherium is a rare, blue luminescent crystal found in Dwemer city ruins. It was originally discovered by the Dwemer miners in Blackreach. It possesses magical qualities, though it is almost impossible to make anything out of, without the proper tools. The Aetherium Forge. An alliance between four Dwemer cities of Arkngthamz, Raldbthar, Mzulft, and Bthar-zel (now known as Deep Folk Crossing) was created to oversee the extraction, processing, and study of the rare crystal.
The Aetherium forge is directly in front of you. On the bottom level against the east wall is a stone table with an unlocked chest built in; on the table are two random potions (one of which is a healing potion), a pair of Dwarven gauntlets, and an enchanted Dwarven greatsword. You can create three different items but can use the forge only once. 1  The Aetherial Crown is a circlet that allows you to use two standing stone abilities simultaneously. 2  The Aetherial Shield is a heavy shield that makes enemies become ethereal (unable to attack or be attacked) for 15 seconds when shield bashed.
History Edit. The Aetherium Forge was created by the Dwemer and can use the crystal material Aetherium to create unique magical artifacts. According to Katria, the Forge and its surroundings are at least 4,000 years old-ancient even by Dwemer standards. There are several hidden chests in the Forge area containing leveled loot. Immediately after leaving the lift, turn right into a small cul-de-sac containing a small Dwemer chest. In the first chamber, there is a waterfall. Behind the waterfall is a small ledge with a hidden chest.
The only known way of working with the material is by using the Aetherium Forge, an ancient Dwemer forge located deep below Bthalft. The items produced from Aetherium are said to be powerful artifacts imbued with very powerful enchantments. The Aetherium Forge. An alliance between four Dwemer cities of Arkngthamz, Raldbthar, Mzulft, and Bthar-zel (now known as Deep Folk Crossing) was created to oversee the extraction, processing, and study of the rare crystal.
The Aetherium Forge is an ancient Dwemer forge, guarded by several Dwarven automatons. Access is gained during the quest Lost to the Ages via the Ruins of Bthalft. You can create three different items but can use the forge only once. 1  The Aetherial Crown is a circlet that allows you to use two standing stone abilities simultaneously. 2  The Aetherial Shield is a heavy shield that makes enemies become ethereal (unable to attack or be attacked) for 15 seconds when shield bashed.