Information about Vitamin C (Ascorbic Acid). 1  Vitamin C is a water-soluble vitamin. 2  Vitamin C is important for growth and repair of bones, teeth, skin and other tissues. 3  Vitamin C has many other roles in the body and can also: 4  Increase your body's absorption of iron from plant-based foods. 5  Help to prevent cell damage and may reduce your risk for ... 1 Vitamin C is important for growth and repair of bones, teeth, skin and other tissues. 2  Vitamin C has many other roles in the body and can also: 3
©2007 Publications International, Ltd.Vitamin C rich foods like oranges, sweet peppers, grapefruits, lemons and limes are great sources of vitamin C. Raw fruits and vegetables are your best sources, so if cooking, keep the heat low. See more pictures of fruit. More than with any other vitamin except folate, vitamin C is easy to destroy. The amount in foods falls off rapidly during transport, processing, storage, and preparation. Bruising or cutting a fruit or vegetable destroys some of the vitamin, as does light, air, and heat.
While not everyone’s favorite food, Brussels sprouts have a great Vitamin C reputation. One serving of cooked Brussels sprouts has almost 50 mg of vitamin C. Brussels sprouts are also high in vitamin K, folate, vitamin A, manganese, potassium and dietary fiber. A small glass of OJ has up to 93mg of vitamin C, and a small glass of grapefruit juice has up to 70 mg of vitamin C. Even though oranges are probably the most popular vitamin C food, it doesn’t have the highest amount in it.
1 You need to include vitamin C rich foods in your diet every day. 2  Vitamin C is important for growth and repair of bones, teeth, skin and other tissues. 3  Vitamin C has many other roles in the body and can also: 4  Increase your body's absorption of iron from plant-based foods. 1 Vitamin C is important for growth and repair of bones, teeth, skin and other tissues. 2  Vitamin C has many other roles in the body and can also: 3
Ascorbic acid is NOT vitamin C. It represents the outer ring that serves as a protective shell for the entire vitamin C complex, much like an orange peel that serves as a protective shell for an orange. Real vitamin C found in whole foods like fruits and vegetables contains the following components: 1  Rutin. 2  Bioflavonoids (vitamin P). 3  Factor K. 4  Factor J. 5  Factor P. 6  Tyrosinase. 7  Ascorbinogen. 8  Ascorbic Acid
14. While not as colorful as some of our other foods high in vitamin C, cauliflower holds its own with this essential nutrient. Just one cup of cauliflower will give you approximately 46 mg, not to mention plenty of vitamin K, folate and dietary fiber. A small glass of OJ has up to 93mg of vitamin C, and a small glass of grapefruit juice has up to 70 mg of vitamin C. Even though oranges are probably the most popular vitamin C food, it doesn’t have the highest amount in it.
Foods With More Vitamin C Than Oranges. In addition to 78.9 mg of vitamin C, pineapple contains bromelain, a digestive enzyme that helps break down food and reduce bloating. 
Dietary supplements. Supplements typically contain vitamin C in the form of ascorbic acid, which has equivalent bioavailability to that of naturally occurring ascorbic acid in foods, such as orange juice and broccoli [ 13-15 ]. Although vitamin C is not naturally present in grains, it is added to some fortified breakfast cereals. The vitamin C content of food may be reduced by prolonged storage and by cooking because ascorbic acid is water soluble and is destroyed by heat [ 6, 8 ].
Choose foods containing vitamin C to enhance iron absorption. You can enhance your body's absorption of iron by drinking citrus juice or eating other foods rich in vitamin C at the same time that you eat high-iron foods. Vitamin C in citrus juices, like orange juice, helps your body to better absorb dietary iron. Vitamin C is also found in: 1  Broccoli. 2  Grapefruit. 3  Kiwi. 4  Leafy greens. 5  Melons.
This exotic fruit is another great vitamin C food, with one Guava containing over 250 mg. Over twice your daily needs! They are also rich in dietary fiber, folic acid, potassium and manganese, making guavas one of the best super foods to add to your diet. A small glass of OJ has up to 93mg of vitamin C, and a small glass of grapefruit juice has up to 70 mg of vitamin C. Even though oranges are probably the most popular vitamin C food, it doesn’t have the highest amount in it.