Platelets are attracted by the damaged tissue and they further the endothelial cell response as well as form thrombosis in the area around the stent [1]. Compounds that can inhibit ISR and intimal hyperplasia are excellent candidates for drug eluting stents. Drug types used in drug eluting stents. The drugs that may be useful in preventing in-stent restenosis (ISR) fall into four major categories; anti-neoplastics, immunosupressives, migration inhibitors, and enhanced healing factors.
This was followed by severe balloon injury of the inner lumen of the artery with inflated balloon (balloon/artery ratio 1.2:1) to induce endothelial abrasion. Eventually the balloon catheter mounted stents were deployed at the site. 3 animals were euthanized at week 2, while the remaining at week 16. To the best of our knowledge, this study for the first time demonstrates that insect cell generated recombinant baculoviruses can be efficiently used for stent based gene therapy applications, such as inhibition of post angioplasty ISR.
The aim of this study is accordingly to investigate the impact of vascular endothelial cells, smooth muscle cells and platelets with various biodegradable polymers to identify a stent coating or platform material that demonstrates excellent endothelial-cell-supportive and non-thrombogenic properties. New stent surface materials: the impact of polymer-dependent interactions of human endothelial cells, smooth muscle cells, and platelets. Busch R(1), Strohbach A(2), Rethfeldt S(2), Walz S(2), Busch M(2), Petersen S(3), Felix S(2), Sternberg K(3). Author information:
1 Enhanced Healing Factors: Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) promotes healing of the vasculature. 2  In the context of stents, this would heal the implantation site and reduce platelet sequestration due to injury related chemotaxis. 3  Nitrous oxide donor compounds may also replicate this effect. Drug types used in drug eluting stents. The drugs that may be useful in preventing in-stent restenosis (ISR) fall into four major categories; anti-neoplastics, immunosupressives, migration inhibitors, and enhanced healing factors.
Endothelial progenitor cell capture by stents coated with antibody against CD34: the HEALING-FIM (Healthy Endothelial Accelerated Lining Inhibits Neointimal Growth-First In Man) Registry. BACKGROUND: A pro-healing approach for prevention of post-stenting restenosis is theoretically favored over the use of cytotoxic or cytostatic local pharmacologic therapies. It is believed that the central role of the vascular endothelium is to maintain quiescence of the underlying media and adventitia. METHODS: Sixteen patients with de novo coronary artery disease were successfully treated with implantation of endothelial progenitor cell (EPC) capture stents. RESULTS: Complete procedural and angiographic success was achieved in all 16 patients
Despite the development of new coronary stent technologies, in-stent restenosis and stent thrombosis are still clinically relevant. Interactions of blood and tissue cells with the implanted material may represent an important cause of these side effects. New stent surface materials: the impact of polymer-dependent interactions of human endothelial cells, smooth muscle cells, and platelets. Busch R(1), Strohbach A(2), Rethfeldt S(2), Walz S(2), Busch M(2), Petersen S(3), Felix S(2), Sternberg K(3). Author information:
Local drug delivery by stent can reduce in-stent restenosis. Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is an endothelial cell-specific mitogen. After stenting, the arterial wall is almost denuded of endothelium. This loss of endothelium contributes to the smooth muscle cell (SMC) proliferation seen in restenosis, since the endothelium actively inhibits SMC hyperplasia.
Human umbilical venous endothelial cells, human coronary arterial endothelial cells and human coronary arterial smooth muscle cells were cultivated on the surfaces of two established biostable polymers used for drug-eluting stents, namely poly(ethylene-co-vinylacetate) (PEVA) and poly(butyl methacrylate) (PBMA). New stent surface materials: the impact of polymer-dependent interactions of human endothelial cells, smooth muscle cells, and platelets. Busch R(1), Strohbach A(2), Rethfeldt S(2), Walz S(2), Busch M(2), Petersen S(3), Felix S(2), Sternberg K(3). Author information: