FIBER AND FABRIC EDUCATION PROGRAM-Fiber Characteristics. You are probably familiar with some of the important characteristics of the common textile fibers. However, you may not understand the difference between manufactured fibers. All fibers are not the same, and their properties and advantages can vary widely. To help you better understand fibers, the following summarizes the important characteristics and end uses of the major fibers used in apparel and home fashion.
The Fibre. Today wool is still the world’s leading animal natural fibre: its complex protein structure is responsible for unique characteristics and properties – such as exceptional resilience and elasticity – that synthetic fibres just cannot match. Wool has natural crimpiness and scale patterns that make it easy to spin. 
Longitudinal view of synthetic fibre and wool fibre. Wool’s unique cellular structure gives it a number of desirable properties. Most properties are typical of all wool, but there are some differences in wool from different sheep breeds. The differences affect the appearance and feel of the wool and what it’s used for. Wool fibres have a unique surface structure of overlapping scales called cuticle cells. The cuticle cells anchor the fibre in the sheep’s skin. Wool’s surface is very different to typical synthetic fibres, which have a very smooth surface.
From good to poor: nylon, linen, acrylic, cotton, wool (coarse), silk, wool (fine), rayon, acetate. Absorbency-comfort of a garment can be greatly affected by the fiber's ability to regain moisture. If a fiber cannot absorb moisture, it feels clammy, and can plaster itself to your skin. Absorbent fibers have less static cling. You may already know a lot of them just by handling them in your knitting, weaving, embroidery, or crochet. The length of a single unit of the fiber-the staple-can determine many things about the thread you will get. A short fiber is not usually a good base for thick single, whereas a long-staple can be.
Characteristics of Fiber. Different fibers have different characteristics. You may already know a lot of them just by handling them in your knitting, weaving, embroidery, or crochet. The length of a single unit of the fiber-the staple-can determine many things about the thread you will get. A short fiber is not usually a good base for thick single, whereas a long-staple can be.
Sheep arrive with their houses on their back. This is due to wool characteristics that also serve to make it the most unique, completely natural and multipurpose fiber available. 1  Sheep wool has the capability to keep the body at at even temperature because it does not trap heat, it insulates instead. 1 Felting is the nature of most animal fur that allows it to entangle and form mats of fabric. 2  The fibers (strands) can interlock with each other due to ridges on the individual fibers. 3  Sheep wool is highly regarded for its ability to felt and form fabrics that are near impossible to tear.
Properties of Wool Fiber. The characteristics of Wool fiber or protein fibers are as follows: Classification of Wool. The quality of wool fibers produced is based on the breeding conditions, the weather, food, general care etc. 1 By sheep from which it is obtained. 2  By fleece. 3  These fibers are strong, fine and elastic fiber which is relatively short, ranging from 1 to 5 inches (25 – 125 mm). 4  Among the different wool fibers, merino wool has the greatest amount of crimp and has maximum number of scales.
The kind of sheep from which the wool is obtained, its physical condition, the part of the sheep from which the wool is obtained, and the finishing processes are some of the factors, which affect the properties of wool fabric. Composition: The chief constituent of these fibers is the protein substance called Keratin. Chemically these proteins contain 5 elements: carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulfur. This is the only animal fiber, which contains sulfur in its composition. Strength: Wool is the weakest of all natural textile fibers.