Schist specimen showing the characteristic scaly schistose texture, caused by platy micas. Schist is a medium-grade metamorphic rock with medium to large, flat, sheet-like grains in a preferred orientation (nearby grains are roughly parallel). It is defined by having more than 50% platy and elongated minerals, often finely interleaved with quartz and feldspar. Schist is often garnetiferous. Schist forms at a higher temperature and has larger grains than phyllite. Geological foliation (metamorphic arrangement in layers) with medium to large grained flakes in a preferred sheetlike orientation is called schistosity.
There are two basic types of metamorphic rocks. Foliated metamorphic rocks such as gneiss, phyllite, schist, and slate have a layered or banded appearance that is produced by exposure to heat and directed pressure. Slate is a foliated metamorphic rock that is formed through the metamorphism of shale. It is a low grade metamorphic rock that splits into thin pieces. The specimen shown above is about two inches (five centimeters) across. Schist is metamorphic rock with well developed foliation.
Specific schist rocks are named for the dominant mineral that is a part of its make-up. Schist is derived from a German word meaning to split. Most schist rocks originate as some type of clay or mud. Most schist contains the mineral mica and is called mica schist. Schist Rock Facts. Schist is a metamorphic rock that contains flakes of mica. Schist can originate as a sedimentary rock or igneous rock. It can contain different miners. Interesting Schist Rock Facts: Schist and slate are very similar in that they are made from the same rock types except schist is subjected to more heat and pressure. Schist is often referred to as schistosity because of its large mica flakes
Alexandra Schist can lay and supply Alexandra, Waitata, HariHari and Cluden Schist stone. The Christchurch price for this stone is only $350 per sqm supplied and laid-GST inclusive. A sqm rate is negotiable for other stone, including volcanic rock and other types of schist-call us to get pricing. 
Southern Alps, Central Otago area. Schist is medium grade metamorphic rock, formed by the metamorphosis of mudstone / shale, or some types of igneous rock, to a higher degree than slate, i.e. it has been subjected to higher temperatures and pressures. 
Schist is a metamorphic rock that comes in almost infinite variety, but its main characteristic is hinted at in its name: schist comes from the ancient Greek for split, through Latin and French. Schist is a rock formed by dynamic metamorphism at high temperatures and high pressures that aligns the grains of mica, hornblende and other flat or elongated minerals into thin layers, or foliation.
Hyde Brown Schist. A metamorphic schist from central Otago essentially the same stone as the hyde grey it has been selected from hyde schist for its exellent brown tones. An ideal building stone with good grain and workability. Alexandra Brown Schist. Clutha Schist. An Otago Schist from the Tarras region predominenly grey with flecks of brown and black layers, has an overall pastel tone to it. Ideally suited to the oldern smeared mortar join of the gold rush era. The picture shown is a recessed mortar random ashlar bond dry-stack style.
The most versatile of the stones we quarry is a mica garnet schist (Unit #3 Goshen Formation), a naturally layered stone having been folded up from ancient seabed and metamorphosed in the slow crush of continents some 400 million years ago. 