For other uses, see Clap. Gonorrhea, also known as gonnococcal infection, gonococcal urethritis, gonorrhoea and the clap, is a sexually transmitted infection that is caused by the bacterium Neisseria gonorrhoeae. The usual symptoms in men are a burning sensation with urination and discharge from the penis. In both men and women, if gonorrhea is left untreated, it may spread locally, causing inflammation of the epididymis or pelvic inflammatory disease or throughout the body, affecting joints and heart valves. Testing all women who are sexually active and less than 25 years of age each year is recommended.
Gonorrhea is a sexually transmitted infection (STI). It’s caused by infection with the bacterium Neisseria gonorrhoeae. It tends to infect warm, moist areas of the body, including the: 1  urethra (the tube that drains urine from the urinary bladder). 2  eyes. 3  throat. 4  vagina. 5  anus. Gonorrhea passes from person to person through unprotected oral, anal, or vaginal sex. People with numerous sexual partners or those who don’t use a condom are at greatest risk of infection. The best protections against infection are abstinence, monogamy (sex with only one partner), and proper condom usage.
Women have no symptoms about half the time or have vaginal discharge and pelvic pain. In both men and women, if gonorrhea is left untreated, it may spread locally, causing inflammation of the epididymis or pelvic inflammatory disease or throughout the body, affecting joints and heart valves. Testing all women who are sexually active and less than 25 years of age each year is recommended.
In men, a gonorrheal infection can lead to epididymitis and infertility. 1-3. Both men and women are at risk of developing a life-threatening disseminated gonococcal infection when gonorrhea is untreated. This infection is often characterized by fever, arthritis, tenosynovitis and dermatitis. 
Gonorrhea Symptoms in Women. 1  It is important to note that infected women have no symptoms in 30% to 40% of cases. 2  Thus it is possible to be infected with gonorrhea and not know about the infection. 3  Gonorrhea may cause pelvic inflammatory disease (a serious medical condition that can lead to infertility). Oral and Rectal Gonorrhea Symptoms. 1  Gonococcal throat infection should be considered in people who complain of sore throat and have other signs of gonococcal infection. 2  Rectal pain or discharge can be a sign of infection of the prostate and is transmitted through anal intercourse.
1 The symptoms of gonorrhea are similar to the symptoms of chlamydia. 2  Both men and women might have rectal or anal infection. 3  Symptoms are usually not present in about 90% of cases. 4  When present, symptoms include anal or rectal itching, discharge, and pain during defecation. 1 Gonorrhea is passed during oral, anal or vaginal sex. 2  It can be passed when the mucous membrane, the soft skin covering all the openings of the body, comes into contact with the mucous membrane secretions or semen of an infected person.
Introduction. Gonorrhoea is a sexually transmitted infection (STI) caused by bacteria called Neisseria gonorrhoeae or gonococcus. It used to be known as 'the clap'. The bacteria are mainly found in discharge from the penis and in vaginal fluid. Anyone who's sexually active can catch gonorrhoea, especially people who change partners frequently or don't use a barrier method of contraception, such as a condom, when having sex. Gonorrhoea is the second most common bacterial STI in the UK after chlamydia.
1 It is important to note that infected women have no symptoms in 30% to 40% of cases. 2  Thus it is possible to be infected with gonorrhea and not know about the infection. 3  Gonorrhea may cause pelvic inflammatory disease (a serious medical condition that can lead to infertility). 4  Infection and irritation of the cervix. Oral and Rectal Gonorrhea Symptoms. 1  Gonococcal throat infection should be considered in people who complain of sore throat and have other signs of gonococcal infection. 2  Rectal pain or discharge can be a sign of infection of the prostate and is transmitted through anal intercourse.
1 Throat infections from gonorrhea are transmitted through oral sex, but occur without any other symptoms in less than 5% of individuals infected with gonorrhea. 2  Rectal pain or discharge can be a sign of infection of the prostate and is transmitted through anal intercourse. Oral and Rectal Gonorrhea Symptoms. 1  Gonococcal throat infection should be considered in people who complain of sore throat and have other signs of gonococcal infection
Signs and symptoms. Typical symptoms of gonorrhoea include a thick green or yellow discharge from the vagina or penis, pain when urinating and (in women) bleeding between periods. However, around 1 in 10 infected men and almost half of infected women don't experience any symptoms. Anyone who's sexually active can catch gonorrhoea, especially people who change partners frequently or don't use a barrier method of contraception, such as a condom, when having sex. Gonorrhoea is the second most common bacterial STI in the UK after chlamydia.