Vertical comparison of Olympus Mons with Mount Everest (shown sea-level-to-peak) and Mauna Kea on Earth (measurement is sea-level to peak, not base to peak). As a shield volcano, Olympus Mons resembles in its morphology the large volcanoes making up the Hawaiian Islands. The edifice is about 600 km (370 mi) wide. Olympus Mons stands almost three times as tall as Mount Everest 's height above sea level. It is the youngest of the large volcanoes on Mars, having formed during Mars's Amazonian Period.
The largest volcano on Mars and in the whole Solar System is Olympus Mons. [See related links]   It is approximately 27 kilometers (around 16.7 miles about 88,600 ft) high. … (About three times the height of Mount Everest.   It is 550 km (342 miles) in width. Answer:  The largest volcano on Mars (and in the Solar System) is Olympus Mons. Thanks to low martian gravity it rises 24 kilometers h … igh and measures 550 km across.
The largest volcano on Mars and in the whole Solar System is Olympus Mons. [See related links]   It is approximately 27 kilometers (around 16.7 miles about 88,600 ft) high. … (About three times the height of Mount Everest.   It is 550 km (342 miles) in width. Yes if I remember correctly.    Answer:  The largest volcano on Mars (and in the Solar System) is Olympus Mons. Thanks to low martian gravity it rises 24 kilometers h … igh and measures 550 km across.
Olympus Mons volcano is the highest point on Mars at an elevation of 21,229 meters (69,649 feet) above the Mars areoid (a reference datum similar to Earth's sea level). It is also the highest mountain in the solar system and the solar system's largest volcano. In this image, Olympus Mons is the largest volcano. 
For example, the tallest volcano on Mars, Olympus Mons, is 550 km across and 21 km high. It is nearly 100 times greater in volume than Mauna Loa in Hawaii, the largest shield volcano on Earth. Geologists think one of the reasons that volcanoes on Mars are able to grow so large is because Mars lacks plate tectonics. 
Supervolcanoes – Olympus Mons is a shield volcano on Mars about the size of the state of Arizona, and the largest volcano in the solar system. At its summit is a caldera 50 miles wide. Its volume is about 100 times larger than Hawaii's Mauna Loa. 
Olympus Mons. At a height of 25km, Olympus Mons on Mars is the largest volcano in the Solar System and is nearly three times as tall as Mount Everest. 
Olympus Mons /ɵˌlɪmpəs ˈmɒnz/ (Latin for Mount Olympus) is a very large shield volcano on the planet Mars. By one measure, it has a height of nearly 25 km (16 mi). Olympus Mons stands almost three times as tall as Mount Everest 's height above sea level. It is the youngest of the large volcanoes on Mars, having formed during Mars's Amazonian Period.
A caldera 80 km (50 mi) wide is located at the summit of Olympus Mons. To compare, the largest volcano on Earth is Mauna Loa. Mauna Loa is a shield volcano 10 km (6.3 mi) high and 120 km (75 mi) across. The volume of Olympus Mons is about 100 times larger than that of Mauna Loa. OLYMPUS MONS (largest volcano in the solar system!) 3-D view of Olympus Mons The largest of the volcanoes in the Tharsis Montes region, as well as all known volcanoes in the solar system, is
Explanation: The largest volcano in the Solar System is on Mars. Olympus Mons rises 24 kilometers high and measures 550 km across. By comparison, Earth' s largest volcano, Mauna Loa in Hawaii, rises 9 km high and measures 120 km across. Such large volcanoes can exist on Mars because of the low gravity and lack of surface tectonic motion. Olympus Mons is a shield volcano, built by fluid lava.