Up until now, there have been three anti-histamine nasal sprays in the United States market available only by prescription… Astelin, Astepro, and Patanase. However, in May 2011, Meda Pharma announced a new anti-histamine nasal spray Rhinolast Allergy that is available over-the-counter.
Step 8. When you finish using your Astelin Nasal Spray, wipe the spray tip with a clean tissue or cloth. Put the safety clip and dust cover back on the bottle. Cleaning the Spray Tip of your Astelin Nasal Spray • If the spray tip opening is clogged, do not use a pin or pointed object to unclog the tip. Put the safety clip and dust cover back on the bottle. Cleaning the Spray Tip of your Astelin Nasal Spray. • If the spray tip opening is clogged, do not use a pin or pointed object to unclog the tip. Unscrew the spray pump unit from the bottle by turning it to the left (counter-clockwise) (. See. Figure F. ).
(azelastine hydrochloride) Nasal Spray. Astelin (azelastine hydrochloride) Nasal Spray, 137 micrograms (mcg), is an antihistamine formulated as a metered-spray solution for intranasal administration. Azelastine hydrochloride occurs as a white, almost odorless, crystalline powder with a bitter taste. Astelin Nasal Spray contains 0.1% azelastine hydrochloride in an aqueous solution at pH 6.8 ± 0.3. It also contains benzalkonium chloride (125 mcg/mL), edetate disodium, hypromellose, citric acid, dibasic sodium phosphate, sodium chloride, and purified water.
DRUG DESCRIPTION. Astelin (azelastine hydrochloride) Nasal Spray, 137 micrograms (mcg), is an antihistamine formulated as a metered-spray solution for intranasal administration. Azelastine hydrochloride occurs as a white, almost odorless, crystalline powder with a bitter taste. Astelin Nasal Spray contains 0.1% azelastine hydrochloride in an aqueous solution at pH 6.8 ± 0.3. It also contains benzalkonium chloride (125 mcg/mL), edetate disodium, hypromellose, citric acid, dibasic sodium phosphate, sodium chloride, and purified water.
It can be used from the age of 5 years. This nasal spray can be used in combination with other over-the-counter anti-histamines medications taken orally like zyrtec, claritin, allegra, and benadryl. Read more about this new nasal spray here. Read more about allergy medications in general here. However, in May 2011, Meda Pharma announced a new anti-histamine nasal spray Rhinolast Allergy that is available over-the-counter.
Medical uses [edit]. Azelastine nasal spray is indicated for the local treatment of the symptoms of seasonal allergic rhinitis and perennial allergic rhinitis, such as rhinorrhea, sneezing and nasal pruritis in adults and children 5 years of age and older. Azelastine has been formulated both as a nasal spray and as eye drops and are available worldwide under many brand names.
cloth. Cleaning the Spray Tip of your Astelin Nasal Spray. • If the spray tip opening is clogged, do not use a pin or pointed object to unclog the tip. Unscrew the spray pump unit from the bottle by turning it to the left (counter-clockwise) (. See. Figure F. ). • Soak only the spray pump unit in warm water. Put the safety clip and dust cover back on the bottle. Cleaning the Spray Tip of your Astelin Nasal Spray. • If the spray tip opening is clogged, do not use a pin or pointed object to unclog the tip. Unscrew the spray pump unit from the bottle by turning it to the left (counter-clockwise) (. See. Figure F. ).
The active ingredient is azelastine, the same one as found in the prescription nasal spray Astelin and Astepro. Azelastine has a triple mode of action: anti-histamine effect, mast-cell stabilizing effect, and anti-inflammatory effect. However, in May 2011, Meda Pharma announced a new anti-histamine nasal spray Rhinolast Allergy that is available over-the-counter.
Step 8. When you finish using your ASTEPRO, wipe the spray tip with a clean tissue or cloth. Put the safety clip and dust cover back on the bottle. Cleaning the Spray Tip of your ASTEPRO. 1  If the spray tip opening is clogged, do not use a pin or pointed object to unclog the tip. 2  Unscrew the spray pump unit from the bottle by turning it to the left (counter-clockwise) (See Figure F). 1 Make sure it is dry before you put it back onto the bottle. 2  Put the spray pump unit back into the open bottle and tighten it by turning clockwise (to the right). 3  To keep the medicine from leaking out, use firm pressure when you put the pump