• Granite is an igneous rock, whereas gneiss is formed after metamorphosis of an existing igneous rock. • The mineral composition of both granite and gneiss is same but alteration of granite because of very high pressure and temperature leads to the formation of gneiss. Granite is a hard igneous rock that is mostly made up of feldspar and quartz. Granite has a crystalline structure, and it can have a wide range of colors from grey to pink. The color of a granite rock is dependent upon the composition of minerals. Any igneous rock that contains one fifth of quartz is labeled as granite
Gneiss and Granite are different types of rocks found on planet Earth but many believe that these two are similar as only the names are different. However, in reality gneiss and granite have a different composition of minerals, texture, colour and hardness. 1 Igneous rock which is one fifth quartz is also granite. 2  The mineral formation of granite and gneiss is quite similar but high pressure and temperature changes basically form granite. 3  Different colours of granite rocks tell you all about the actual mineral composition is different in a variety of rocks.
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Paul Jones. Confidence votes 68.1K. Rockhound. Gneiss is a foliated metamorphic rock which can be derived from several protoliths. Granite is an intrusive igneous rock, formed from the solidification of felsic magma. The difference between flamed and polished granite is following: Flamed : The Flaming is a type of finishing to change the surface of granite by burning it by flames. This … procedure change the surface in some type of rough finishing.
Gneiss. Gneiss is a hard rock that has a mineral composition similar to granite as it contains the feldspar, mica, and quartz. This is a rock that is formed from pre-existing igneous rocks such as granite that have been subject to conditions of high pressure and temperature. Granite is a hard igneous rock that is mostly made up of feldspar and quartz. Granite has a crystalline structure, and it can have a wide range of colors from grey to pink. The color of a granite rock is dependent upon the composition of minerals. Any igneous rock that contains one fifth of quartz is labeled as granit
Gneiss has mineral composition of mica, feldspar and quartz. The mica is an extra mineral in gneiss and that is why it is different from granite. Gneiss rocks form from pre-existing granite rocks with the pressure and high temperature in the crust of the Earth. 1 Igneous rock which is one fifth quartz is also granite. 2  The mineral formation of granite and gneiss is quite similar but high pressure and temperature changes basically form granite. 3  Different colours of granite rocks tell you all about the actual mineral composition is different in a variety of rocks.
• Not all gneiss is obtained from granite, and there are also diorite gneiss, biotite gneiss, garnet gneiss, and so on. • Minerals are seen arranged in bands, in gneiss. • Though gneiss is sometimes labeled under the broad category of granite by those selling the rock, it is not same as granite. Granite is a hard igneous rock that is mostly made up of feldspar and quartz. Granite has a crystalline structure, and it can have a wide range of colors from grey to pink. The color of a granite rock is dependent upon the composition of minerals. Any igneous rock that contains one fifth of quartz is labeled
Gneiss is a foliated metamorphic rock which can be derived from several protoliths. Granite is an intrusive igneous rock, formed from the solidification of felsic magma. Confidence votes 83.6K. Marble is a nonfoliated metamorphic rock made of carbonate minerals, particularly calcite. It is formed by the metamorphism or limestone. Gneiss is a foliated metamorphic rock made of silicate minerals such as quartz and feldspars, and micas. It forms from the metamorphism of granite or schist.
1 The parent rocks are still granite and some other diorite gneiss, biotite gneiss and garnet gneiss. 2  However, gneiss formed from different hard conditions like high pressure and temperature. 3  The process of formation of igneous rock into gneiss is called metamorphosis. 1 Igneous rock which is one fifth quartz is also granite. 2  The mineral formation of granite and gneiss is quite similar but high pressure and temperature changes basically form granite. 3  Different colours of granite rocks tell you all about the actual mineral composition is different in a variety of rocks.