The majority of cork used for flooring, as well as wine-bottle corks, actually comes from the bark of the cork oak tree, or Quercus suber, native to the Mediterranean [sources: World Wildlife Fund and Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew ]. 
This is a close-up of a piece of bark. It's quite thin, and won't be used to produce high-quality natural cork. But now there are also technical corks, made up of small pieces of cork fused together, which means that more of the cork bark is suitable for producing wine bottle closures. Before processing, the cork planks are put on pallets. How cork is made An illustrated guide to the cork production process. It all starts in the forest. Cork oaks are harvested every nine years, once they reach maturity. It doesn't harm the tree, and the cork bark regrows.
1 Washing the cork -- The cork slabs that are cut away from the tree are boiled and the rough outer layer of the bark is stripped away. 2  Boiling the cork also softens it, making it easier to work with. 3  Punching Bottle Stoppers -- From the slabs of cork, holes are punched out to make bottle stoppers. Cork is actually made of water-resistant cells that separate the outer bark from the delicate interior bark. It has a unique set of properties not found in any other naturally existing material. It is lightweight, rot resistant, fire resistant, termite resistant, impermeable to gas and liquid, soft and buoyant.
A custom made product developed entirely to your specification. Made of 100% natural cork or by using cutting-edge technology that serves as basis for our technical cork stoppers, we develop the piece of cork that best meets your needs and creativity. 
Wine corks can be made of either a single piece of cork, or composed of particles, as in champagne corks; corks made of granular particles are called agglomerated corks. Natural cork closures are used for about 80% of the 20 billion bottles of wine produced each year. After a decline in use as wine-stoppers due to the increase in the use of cheaper synthetic alternatives, cork wine-stoppers are making a comeback and currently represent approximately 60% of wine-stoppers today. There are about 2,200,000 hectares of cork forest worldwide; 34% in Portugal and 27% in Spain. Annual production is about 200,000 tons; 49.6% from Portugal, 30.5% from Spain, 5.8% from Morocco, 4.9% from Algeria, 3.5% from Tunisia, 3.1% Italy, and 2.6% from France.
Save. Image by Flickr.com, courtesy of Thomas. Cork is a familiar material, but it is sometimes assumed wrongly to be the product of a great deal of factory processing. Instead, cork literally grows on trees and is a forestry product, and making corks for wine bottles involves only a few simple steps. Cork Trees. The raw material for corks is the bark of the cork oak, an evergreen tree present in southwest Europe and northwest Africa. Cork bark contains a high proportion of suberin, a waxy substance that repels water.
Among the many products made from cork are flooring materials (e.g., linoleum), shoe insoles, roofing panels, gaskets, safety helmet liners, bottle stoppers, dartboards, bulletin boards, and cores for golf balls and baseballs. 
How cork is made Making technical corks-part 2 of an illustrated guide to the cork production process. Some cork planks are too think to have natural corks punched from them. 
Unlike natural corks, many wine synthetic corks are made from material that is not biodegradable but recyclable as either #4 or #7 (see resin identification code) in many communities. There are two main production techniques for synthetic wine closures: injection molding and extrusion (mono-and co-). 