add a comment |. up vote 1 down vote. 7-Zip can do this: Open the archive, right-click on the file to edit and select Edit. This will typically open the file in Notepad. When you exit Notepad, it will detect that the file has changed and load it back into the zip file, which may take a bit of time. share | improve this answer. answered May 21 '14 at 7:29. add a comment |. up vote 0 down vote. Open the zip file with winrar, double click an embedded text file, it should open in an external editor. Change and close the text file. Winrar then asks if it should updated the archive with the changed file.
Right-click any file with the .jar extension and click properties. To the right of where it says Open With: and shows winrar, click Change.... Hopefully Java will be under your Recommended Programs. Click Java Click Ok Click Ok And now your .jar files should be run using Java again. Well If you are looking for a free download of Winrar you can check here http://j.mp/1p3PwZX If you need to open file zip, rar, 7z, jar and all the other compressed files you need WinRar.
Please try again later. made with ezvid, free download at http://ezvid.com In this tutorial i show you how to change a winrar file into a java file. 
now all the files will be associated with that program. 2, uninstall winrar and it should go back to default or you might have to use the other program or reinstall the other program that you used to use. Well If you are looking for a free download of Winrar you can check here http://j.mp/1p3PwZX If you need to open file zip, rar, 7z, jar and all the other compressed files you need WinRar.
Extracting ZIP/RAR Files. Once you've downloaded the compressed modification, you have to extract the containing package-files. To do this simply use the right click menu. Perform a right click on the compressed file, goto 7-Zip and select Extract Here. That's it, you have now the package-file
A jar file is a zip archive. You can extract it using 7zip (a great simple tool to open archives). You can also change its extension to zip and use whatever to unzip the file. Now you have your class file. There is no easy way to edit class file, because class files are binaries (you won't find source code in there. maybe some strings, but not java code). To edit your class file you can use a tool like classeditor. You have all the strings your class is using hard-coded in the class
In software, JAR (J ava Ar chive) is a package file format typically used to aggregate many Java class files and associated metadata and resources (text, images, etc.) into one file to distribute application software or libraries on the Java platform. 
I have a WAR file. I would like to open it, edit an XML file, remove some jars and then re-package it. I used WINRAR to open the WAR file and I removed some Jars and did an 'Add to Archive' in WinRar and created a WAR. When I deployed the WAR in jboss folder, I got an exception. 
How to open, extract and convert a RAR file using Bitser freeware. (http://www.bitser.org/download_zip.shtml). RAR converter demo created on Windows 7. Applies to .7z, .Zip files and .RAR files and can also be used on Windows 8, 10, XP and Vista. This video specifically shows how to convert rar to zip. 