Fantasia has stated that Baby Mama is dedicated to all of those single moms out there who tough it out to take care of the kids and work two jobs, go to school. Critics have accused the song sending the wrong message about sexual activity and pregnancy to teens. The song takes its title from the slang term baby mama. A parody of the song was made by comedian Rickey Smiley. The song contains a sample of There'll Never Be Any Peace (Until God Is Seated At The Conference Table) by the Chi-Lites.
Baby Mama Lyrics. Baby Mama was written by Lilly Jr, Harold Spencer / Acklin, Barbara / Records, Eugene / Colapietro, Vito / Dinkins, Neely. Baby Mama was written by Lilly Jr, Harold Spencer / Acklin, Barbara / Records, Eugene / Colapietro, Vito / Dinkins, Neely. Submit Corrections Cancel. Really love music, take one, Fantasia. Ooh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Ooh, ooh, yeah, yeah. Ooh, ooh, ooh. You're my baby mama, yeah. BABY MAMA. This goes out to all my baby mamas. This goes out to all my baby mamas
Baby Mama (song). From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. For the Three 6 Mafia song, see Choices: The Album.  Baby Mama  is an R&B / hip-hop song by Fantasia from her debut album Free Yourself. It was released as the album's third single on May 3, 2005 and was produced by Co-Stars and Harold Lilly. The song takes its title from the slang term baby mama. A parody of the song was made by comedian Rickey Smiley. The song contains a sample of There'll Never Be Any Peace (Until God Is Seated At The Conference Table) by the Chi-Lites.
Baby Mama is track #3 on the album Choices (Soundtrack). It was written by Paul Beauregard, Jordan Houston. Baby Mama is track #3 on the album Choices (Soundtrack). It's my baby daddy (Yeanknow) he be always broke. And he ain't no good nothin', but a joke. It's my baby daddy (Yeanknow) he just love to have it. He be cheatin' on me that's why I can't stand em'.
Mick Jagger's Rock Me Baby is based on Rockin' and Rollin', a song recorded by Lil' Son Jackson in 1950 (Imperial 5113). Jagger's lyrics are nearly identical to Jackson's, although instrumentally the songs are different. Arthur Crudup 's 1944 song, Rock Me Mama, is based on Broonzy's song and repeats the same refrain, but uses mama in place of baby (Bluebird 34-0725).
Submit Corrections Cancel. It's my baby mama (Yeanknow) I want child support. She get boyfriend checks, but I stay in court. It's my baby mama (Yeanknow) she be ridin' caddy. And she always lookin' for sugar daddies. It's my baby daddy (Yeanknow) he be always broke. And he ain't no good nothin', but a joke. It's my baby daddy (Yeanknow) he just love to have it. He be cheatin' on me that's why I can't stand em'. Songwriters. PAUL BEAUREGARD, JORDAN HOUSTON. Published by. Lyrics © BMG RIGHTS MANAGEMENT US, LLC. print correct Terms of Use. Get Baby Mama Ringtone. New Music Daily Check out whats trending in the music world
#4: Mama’s Song–Carrie Underwood actually has a couple of “mama” songs. The first was her second single “Don’t Forget To Remember Me,” which is similar to the Diamond Rio hit at #10. Carrie wrote this song after she met Mike Fisher. It was released as a single two months after they were married. #7: Mama He’s Crazy–Who better to sing this song than country’s top mother-daughter duo. When Wynonna sings the verses, her mother Naomi just shakes her head. Wynonna was 20 years old in 1984 when this song became their first #1. #6: The Baby–Blake Shelton didn’t write this song, but he is the baby of his family