Second Intifada - (Arabic: انتفاضة الأقصى‎, Intifadatat al Aqsa). The Second Intifada (or Intifadeh or Intifadah) or Al-Aqsa Intifada is the name given to the Palestinian Arab violence that began at the end of September 2000. Goals of the Second Intifada. To understand the causes of the second Intifada, it makes sense to examine the goals, as expressed by the different organizations that led it The second Intifada, from the start, never had a unified and agreed goal.
These two uprisings have been significant aspects of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in recent years: The First Intifada began in 1987. Violence declined in 1991 and came to an end with the signing of the Oslo accords (August 1993) and the creation of the Palestinian National Authority. The al-Aqsa Intifada (also known as the Second Palestinian Intifada or the Second Intifada) was the violent Palestinian-Israeli conflict that began in September of 2000. 
On December 8, 1987 an Israeli trucker had an accident with 4 Palestinian killed. The Palestinian (especially in the Jabaliya camp located in Gaza), thought this to be a payback for an incident where an Israeli was stabbed, and started rioting. This is the first intifada of course. There was also a second one. In 1967 Israel won the six-day war, and decided … to control the Gaza Strip, and the West Bank, and since then Palestinian wanted autonomy. In the following years (80's mainly), Israel has built settlements in the West Bank and Gaza strip, and, due to attacks on it, was very tough security wise.
The two main power blocks were Austria / Hungary Turkey and Germany. Opposing them were Serbia, Russia, France, Grea … t Britain and Italy. Later America joined in (1917). Britain called on the Commonwealth to help. That involved Canada, India, Australia and New Zealand. Then there was the war in the Middle East (Laurence of Arabia and all that). That involved modern day Iran, Iraq, Palestine and Israel. That doesn't leave much left.
This, as much as the violence of the Second Intifada, helps to account for the rejection of the peace process by much of Diaspora Zionism, which saw the threat in terms of anti-Semitism rather than a national struggle of the Palestinians. Goals of the Second Intifada. To understand the causes of the second Intifada, it makes sense to examine the goals, as expressed by the different organizations that led it The second Intifada, from the start, never had a unified and agreed goal.
C. It caused Israel to declare war on Palestine. D. It was caused by Palestinian frustration about Israel. C and D Palestinians wanted to take over all of Israel. They turned down Israel's country offer and started the Intifada instead. They weren't frustrated-they never asked for a different offer. [ They simply had to do something besides form a country. Israel has never declared war on the terroritory Palestinians.
The Second Intifada, also known as the Al-Aqsa Intifada (Arabic: انتفاضة الأقصى ‎ Intifāḍat al-ʾAqṣā; Hebrew: אינתיפאדת אל-אקצה ‎ Intifādat El-Aqtzah), was the second Palestinian uprising against Israel – a period of intensified Israeli-Palestinian violence. Al-Aqsa Intifada refers to the Al-Aqsa Mosque, the place where the intifada started. It is the name of a mosque, constructed in the 8th century CE at Al-Haram Al-Sharif, also known as the Temple Mount in the Old City of Jerusalem, a location considered the holiest site in Judaism and third holiest in Islam.
The event that supposedly sparked the Second Intifada was Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's visit to the Dome of the Rock. This has been proven to be false. Palestinian mi … litants were looking for an event to begin a Second Intifada and used Sharon's visit as an excuse to begin fighting again. In 1967 Israel won the six-day war, and decided … to control the Gaza Strip, and the West Bank, and since then Palestinian wanted autonomy. In the following years (80's mainly), Israel has built settlements in the West Bank and Gaza strip, and, due to attacks on it, was very tough security wise.
The Palestinians and the Israelis were the main people who were involved with the first intifada. In 1967 Israel won the six-day war, and decided … to control the Gaza Strip, and the West Bank, and since then Palestinian wanted autonomy. In the following years (80's mainly), Israel has built settlements in the West Bank and Gaza strip, and, due to attacks on it, was very tough security wise.