Bake Until Opaque and Flaky. Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F for fillets or 350 degrees F for a dressed fish. You can bake the fillets at a lower temperature, if desired, but remember to increase the cooking time. Bake salmon fillets or steaks, uncovered, for 4 to 6 minutes per 1/2-inch thickness. For a dressed salmon, bake for 6 to 9 minutes per 8 ounces of fish. To test for doneness, insert a fork into the salmon and gently twist.
1 Turn salmon fillets so that the side of the fillet faces up, and baste fillets with about 1/3 of the butter sauce; broil for 3 minutes. 2  Turn the fillets to place the opposite side facing up; spoon on the remaining butter sauce; broil until the fish flakes easily with a fork, about 3 additional minutes.
Checking for Doneness. Begin checking the salmon for doneness a few minutes before the time prescribed for the thickness of the fish. For instance, begin checking a one inch thick fillet at about eight minutes or a half inch thick fillet at four minutes.
Preheat the oven to 450 degrees F. Season salmon with salt and pepper. Place salmon, skin side down, on a non-stick baking sheet or in a non-stick pan with an oven-proof handle. Bake until salmon is cooked through, about 12 to 15 minutes.
1 Broil in the preheated oven for 3 minutes. 2  Turn salmon fillets so that the side of the fillet faces up, and baste fillets with about 1/3 of the butter sauce; broil
Place the bag with the marinade and salmon fillets in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. 1  Salmon, like all fish, is not as dense as red meats and poultry. 2  As a result, it does not need to be marinaded for long in order to absorb flavor. 3  Remove the salmon from the refrigerator at least 10 minutes prior to cooking.
To Broil Salmon. 1  Place the fish on foil. 2  Sprinkle with herbs such as dill for flavoring. 3  Introduce moisture to the fish-for instance, spread softened butter on top of the herbs or drizzle the fish with olive oil. 4  Place the fish in the oven four to five inches below the broiler element.
Step 6. Broil the salmon for about 5 minutes. Squeeze fresh lemon juice and drizzle a bit of olive oil over the fish after 5 minutes and continue to cook for another 4 to 5 minutes. Fillets that are close to 2 inches in thickness should be turned over for the remainder of the cooking time.