Photo by: Sebastian Kaulitzki. Bacteria are microscopic organisms that comprise the domain Eubacteria. A domain is the highest grouping of organisms, superseding the level of kingdom in the classical Linnaean system of biological classification. There are three domains, two of which, Eubacteria and Archaea, are composed entirely of prokaryotic organisms; the third domain, Eucarya, encompasses all other (eukaryotic) life forms, including the single-cell and multicellular protists, as well as animals, green plants, and fungi.
Noun. 1. eubacteria-a large group of bacteria having rigid cell walls; motile types have flagella. eubacterium, true bacteria. moneran, moneron-organisms that typically reproduce by asexual budding or fission and whose nutritional mode is absorption or photosynthesis or chemosynthesis. eubacteria. pl n, sing-rium (-rɪəm). 1. (Microbiology) a large group of bacteria characterized by a rigid cell wall and, in motile types, flagella; the true bacteria. [C20: via New Latin from Greek, from eu- (in the sense: true) + bacterium].
Eubacteria are prokaryotic organisms, as characterized by the lack of a membrane-enclosed nucleus, predominantly unicellular, with DNA in single circular chromosome, and have peptidoglycan on cell wall when present. 
Eubacteria. The Eubacteria, also called just bacteria, are one of the three main domains of life, along with the Archaea and the Eukarya. Eubacteria are prokaryotic, meaning their cells do not have defined, membrane-limited nuclei. Eubacteria are often classified according to the manner in which they gain energy. Photoautotrophic Eubacteria manufacture their own energy through photosynthesis. Cyanobacteria, often called blue-green algae, are common photoautotrophic Eubacteria that are found in ponds and wetlands.
Eubacteria The domain that comprises the single kingdom Bacteria, containing the true bacteria. There are 11 main groups: purple (photosynthetic), Gram-positive, cyanobacteria, green non-sulphur, spirochaetes, flavobacteria, green sulphur, Planctomyces, Chlamydiales, Deinococci, and Thermatogales. Eubacteria are often classified according to the manner in which they gain energy. Photoautotrophic Eubacteria manufacture their own energy through photosynthesis. Cyanobacteria, often called blue-green algae, are common photoautotrophic Eubacteria that are found in ponds and wetlands.
Medical Definition of EUBACTERIA. : a subkingdom of prokaryotic microorganisms that is equivalent to the domain Bacteria in the three-domain classification of living things, that comprises microorganisms either lacking a cell wall, having a thick cell wall of peptidoglycan, or having a thin cell wall of peptidoglycan with an outer layer of .... 
Eubacteria. Eubacteria, known as true bacteria, are prokaryotic (lacking nucleus) cells that are very common in human daily life, encounter many more times than the archaebacteria. Gram-positive bacteria bind a stain known as Gram's stain to the peptidoglycan in their cell walls. Gram-negative bacteria have more complex cell walls and less peptidoglycan and therefore are unable to bind the stain to their cell walls.
Eubacteria, also referred to as true bacteria, are the majority of what we think of as bacteria. Eubacteria are microscopic single-celled organisms. Basically, the terms “Eubacteria” and “Bacteria” are interchangeable, since they both refer to a huge collection of organisms found everywhere on Earth, from the kitchen floor to mountain streams.
Confidence votes 34.1K. Eubacteria (true bacteria) are a domain of living organisms. They are spherical or rod-shaped single-celled microorganisms that have a rigid cell wall, and may use whiplike tails or flagella for motion. Their cells do not possess a nucleus. It is the eubacteria that most people are talking about when they say bacteria, because they live in more neutral conditions. They can be found everywhere around us-in our bodies, our food, etc. There are four phyla of bacteria, some of which are divided into subgroups.