Print the Social Security Form SS-5. In order to get a duplicate social security card, you must print out Form SS-5: Application for a Social Security Card. The U.S. Social Security Administration allows individuals to print Form SS-5 from its website. A Social Security card can be critical for everything from applying to jobs to paying taxes. If your card was lost or stolen, follow these steps and you'll be on your way to getting a new one. It is free to get a new or replacement social security card
Here's how to get a copy of your Social Security card. 1  Complete an SS-5 application for a Social Security card. 2  You can obtain a copy of the application online at http://www.ssa.gov/online/ss-5.html. 3  Prove who you are by providing a recently issued official document, such as a driver's license. 1 You can obtain a copy of the application online at http://www.ssa.gov/online/ss-5.html. 2  Prove who you are by providing a recently issued official document, such as a driver's license. 3  Provide proof of citizenship [source: Lawyers ].
1 Complete an SS-5 application for a Social Security card. 2  You can obtain a copy of the application online at http://www.ssa.gov/online/ss-5.html. 3  Prove who you are by providing a recently issued official document, such as a driver's license. 4  Provide proof of citizenship [source: Lawyers ]. 1 You can obtain a copy of the application online at http://www.ssa.gov/online/ss-5.html. 2  Prove who you are by providing a recently issued official document, such as a driver's license. 3
You can get an original Social Security card or a replacement card if yours is lost or stolen by following the steps below. You cannot apply for a card online. There is no charge for a Social Security card. This service is free. You will need to: 1  Show the required documents. 2  We need to see different documents depending on your citizenship and the type of card you are requesting. 3  See Learn What Documents You Need to find out what documents you will have to show. You will need to: 1  Show the required documents. 2  Fill out and print an Application for a Social Security Card; and. 3  Take or mail your application and documents to your local Social Security office.
1 You can obtain a copy of the application online at http://www.ssa.gov/online/ss-5.html. 2  Prove who you are by providing a recently issued official document, such as a driver's license. 3  Provide proof of citizenship [source: Lawyers 4  ]. Mail your application to your local Social Security office, or bring it in in person. 1 You can obtain a copy of the application online at http://www.ssa.gov/online/ss-5.html. 2  Prove who you are by providing a recently issued official document, such as a driver's license. 3  Provide proof of citizenship [source: Lawyers ].
To get a replacement card, you will need to: 1  Complete an Application For A Social Security Card (Form SS-5); 2  Present a recently issued document to show your identity; 3  Show evidence of your U.S. citizenship if you were born outside the United States and did not show proof of citizenship when you got your card; and. So, if your Social Security card is lost or stolen, a lot is at stake. With your unique number, a thief can apply for credit, even a mortgage, in your name. According to the SSA, there are some steps to take to get your card replaced. You can replace your card or your child’s card for free if it is lost or stolen.
There is no cost to get your Social Security Card. To get a new card, replacement card, or change the name on the card you have, you must complete form SS-5, visit your local Social Security office, or call 1-800-772-1213. Information about local offices as well as all forms are located at the Social Security Website
Once you've found your ancestor in the Social Security Death Index, you may want to request a copy of your ancestor's original Social Security Application. An excellent record for genealogical information, the SS-5 is the application form used by an individual to enroll in the U.S. Social Security program. 
The Social Security Administration allows you to replace, update, or change your Social Security Card free of charge. We are not affiliated with the SSA, however we can assist in the process. The SS-5 application and instructions are 5 pages long. The fields required change depending on the circumstances. 