Medroxyprogesterone acetate (INN, USAN, BAN), also known as 17α-hydroxy-6α-methylprogesterone acetate, and commonly abbreviated as MPA, is a steroidal progestin, a synthetic variant of the steroid hormone progesterone. While medroxyprogesterone is sometimes used as a synonym for medroxyprogesterone acetate, what is almost always being referred to is MPA and not MP.
Medroxyprogesterone is sometimes used with another medication (a type of estrogen) as combination hormone replacement therapy (HRT) in women after menopause. For the treatment of stopped menstrual periods (amenorrhea) and abnormal bleeding from the uterus, take this drug usually once daily for 5-10 days during the second half of the planned menstrual cycle or as directed by your doctor. Withdrawal bleeding usually occurs within 3-7 days after you stop taking the medication.
Using hormones such as medroxyprogesterone in combination with estrogen is called combination hormone therapy, or combination HT. Combination HT is normally used to treat bothersome symptoms of menopause. The combination of estrogen with a progestin hormone is only necessary for women who still have a uterus. Medroxyprogesterone (Provera ® , Depo-Provera ® , depo-subQ Provera 104 ®) is a prescription progestin hormone. It has several uses.
Medroxyprogesterone is also used as part of combination hormone replacement therapy with estrogens to reduce menopause symptoms (e.g., hot flashes). Medroxyprogesterone is added to estrogen replacement therapy to reduce the risk of cancer of the uterus. For the treatment of stopped menstrual periods (amenorrhea) and abnormal bleeding from the uterus, take this drug usually once daily for 5-10 days during the second half of the planned menstrual cycle or as directed by your doctor. Withdrawal bleeding usually occurs within 3-7 days after you stop taking the medication.
Uses of This Medicine. Medroxyprogesterone is used to treat amenorrhea (unusual stopping of menstrual periods) and abnormal uterine bleeding. It is also used to prevent endometrial hyperplasia (thickening of the lining of the uterus or womb) in women who are taking conjugated estrogens.
Medroxyprogesterone is a progestin (a form of progesterone), a female hormone that helps regulate ovulation (the release of an egg from an ovary) and menstrual periods. Medroxyprogesterone is used to treat conditions such as absent or irregular menstrual periods, or abnormal uterine bleeding. Medroxyprogesterone is also used to decrease the risk of endometrial hyperplasia (a condition that may lead to uterine cancer) while taking estrogens. Medroxyprogesterone is also used to prevent overgrowth in the lining of the uterus in postmenopausal women who are receiving estrogen hormone replacement therapy. Medroxyprogesterone may also be used for other purposes not listed in this medication guide
Medroxyprogesterone is also used to prevent overgrowth in the lining of the uterus in postmenopausal women who are receiving estrogen hormone replacement therapy. Medroxyprogesterone may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide. You should not use this medicine if you are allergic to medroxyprogesterone, or if you have: 1  abnormal vaginal bleeding that has not been diagnosed; 2  a hormone-related cancer such as breast or uterine cancer; 3  liver disease; or.
For example, it can be used to treat abnormal vaginal bleeding, restore normal menstrual periods in certain women, and prevent pregnancy. Medroxyprogesterone (Provera ® , Depo-Provera ® , depo-subQ Provera 104 ®) is a prescription progestin hormone. It has several uses.
Medroxyprogesterone is a progestin (a form of progesterone), a female hormone that helps regulate ovulation (the release of an egg from an ovary) and menstrual periods. Medroxyprogesterone is used to treat conditions such as absent or irregular menstrual periods, or abnormal uterine bleeding. Medroxyprogesterone is also used to decrease the risk of endometrial hyperplasia (a condition that may lead to uterine cancer) while taking estrogens. Medroxyprogesterone is also used to prevent overgrowth in the lining of the uterus in postmenopausal women who are receiving estrogen hormone replacement therapy.
3 Reviews. 3 Reviews. Medroxyprogesterone is a progestin (a form of progesterone), a female hormone that helps regulate ovulation (the release of an egg from an ovary) and menstrual periods. Medroxyprogesterone is used to treat conditions such as absent or irregular menstrual periods, or abnormal uterine bleeding. You should not use this medicine if you are allergic to medroxyprogesterone, or if you have: 1  abnormal vaginal bleeding that has not been diagnosed; 2  a hormone-related cancer such as breast or uterine cancer; 3  liver disease; or.