Split and merge into it. Answer by JEK. Confidence votes 13.1K. The filtrate is the liquid that is left after you filter something -- the liquid that is now missing the solid that was filtered out. For instance, if you are making drip coffee, it is the coffee beverage (the coffee grinds are called the  filtrand ).
(Redirected from Glomerular filtrate). A glomerulus is a network (as a tuft) of capillaries located at the beginning of a nephron in the kidney. It serves as the first stage in the filtering process of the blood carried out by the nephron in its formation of urine. The glomerulus is surrounded by a cup-like sac known as Bowman's capsule. A glomerulus receives blood from a single artery called the afferent artery. The afferent artery is a branch of an interlobular artery in the cortex of the kidney. Contraction or relaxation of the artery can affect the pressure of capillaries in the glomerulus, and consequently the filtration of blood.
Perhaps, you wanted to know about 'glomerular filtrate'. Glomerulus is a microscopic structure in the kidney, consisting of capillary networks. It is here where the actual filtration takes place. If you wring a wet towel, you can see how water is squeezed out.
The Bowman's capsule empties the filtrate into the proximal tubule that is also part of the nephron. A glomerulus receives its blood supply from an afferent arteriole of the renal circulation. A glomerulus receives blood from a single artery called the afferent artery. The afferent artery is a branch of an interlobular artery in the cortex of the kidney. Contraction or relaxation of the artery can affect the pressure of capillaries in the glomerulus, and consequently the filtration of blood.
Considering that you have 7 to 8 liters of blood in your body, this means that your entire blood volume gets filtered approximately 20 to 25 times each day! Also, the amount of any substance that gets filtered is the product of the concentration of that substance in the blood and the rate of filtration. So the higher the concentration, the greater the amount filtered or the greater the filtration rate, the more substance gets filtered. Kidney Filtration. In the nephron, approximately 20 percent of the blood gets filtered under pressure through the walls of the glomerular capillaries and Bowman's capsule.
Glomerular Filtration. The first step in renal processing involves the filtration of plasma in the glomerulus. Glomerular filtration is a process of bulk flow: water and low molecular weight substances move from the lumen of the capillary, across the filtration membrane, and into Bowman s space. , but are retained in the plasma. Also, small molecular weight substances that are. will not be filtered. It is the structure of the filtration membrane that prevents proteins from being filtered.
Filtration is a separation technique that is used to separate a solid that has not dissolved in a liquid (for example a precipitate). A filter paper is placed inside a glass funnel and a container put beneath. The mixture of the solid and liquid is placed into the filter paper. 
The filtrate is composed of water, ions (sodium, potassium, chloride), glucose and small proteins (less than 30,000 daltons -- a dalton is a unit of molecular weight). The rate of filtration is approximately 125 ml/min or 45 gallons (180 liters) each day. Kidney Filtration. In the nephron, approximately 20 percent of the blood gets filtered under pressure through the walls of the glomerular capillaries and Bowman's capsule.
The filtrate is the liquid that is left after you filter something -- the liquid that is now missing the solid that was filtered out. For instance, if you are making … drip coffee, it is the coffee beverage (the coffee grinds are called the filtrand). Glomerulus is a microscopic structure in the kidney, consisting of capillary networks. It is here where the actual filtration takes place. If you wring a wet towel, you can see how water is squeezed out.