Incubating Pheasant eggs takes between 22-29 days, with egg turning ending at day 23 (or day 19 for breeds with shorter incubation times). The humidity level in the incubator plays the biggest role in successful artificial incubation of pheasant eggs. It is recommended that you maintain the humidity level at 60%. This converts to a wet bulb temperature of 86 - 87 degrees F.
The normal incubation time of pheasant eggs is 23-25 days. Time will be affected by incubation temperature, genetics, and management. We use a phenol fogging program: Tri-phenolR256 at 2 oz per gallon; put into automatic fogger after making a set; run for 15 minutes or enough to saturate the air in the room. Day 1 - 20 (Incubator) the temperature should be 99.4 F and the humidity should be 83-84 F wet bulb (53% relative humidity). Day 21 - 25 (Hatcher) the temperature should be 98
gbwf.org 1997-2012, Dan Cowellhttp://www.gbwf.org/pheasants/pheasant_chart.html avicultural forums pheasants & peafowl grouse francolins & partridge quail cracids guineafowl & turkey megapodes hoagba ggbba links facebook Animal Wonders contact. Many species that are not included on this chart are very rare in captivity or there are none in private collections at all. After reviewing the directory, I chose the species that are more commonly kept in collections. For incubation information of the rarer species, please refer to their indvidual fact sheets.
This gave us the information needed during incubation. If eggs are not losing enough weight we need to lower the humidity slightly or raise the humidity if they are losing too much weight. The humidity in the incubators can vary from as low as 16% relative humidity (RH) to about 55% RH. 
Male Reeves's pheasant, green pheasant, Lady Amherst's pheasant and golden pheasant (front to back). The Reeves's pheasant is a hardy bird, and is able to tolerate both hot and cold weather. They prefer higher ground for nesting. The female lays a clutch of 7–14 eggs in April or May; the incubation period is 24–25 days. 
Good thing because our new incubating golden pheasants start in today. Boy are we having growing pains! We are getting more eggs pheasants of incubation than expected this year. We have over 250 eggs in incubation and growing. Since we are new, we are using the over the counter foam incubators. They work great as long as they are watched over. We have been very busy taking care of 400 eggs and many new little chicks. We also are the proud owners of a male Wood Duck, with 4 new females on the way from MN. We have constructed a 32'x32' pen with a 8'x8' pond that is self draining for easy cleaning. We have done well with Chukars this year along with Pheasants.
Email me when this is Available. Red Golden PheasantsThe Red Golden Pheasants is probably the most common variety of Golden Pheasants, and is usually simply referred to as the Golden Pheasant. The Golden Pheasant or Chinese Pheasant is native to dense forested and mountainous regions of China. The Golden Pheasants tail is black with cinnamon colored spots and accounts for about two thirds of birds total length. The female Golden Pheasants are much duller in coloration than the males, with mostly mottle or barred brown and buff plumage. The females will lay between 8-12 eggs and incubate for 22-23 days.
The Golden Pheasant is one of the most popular of all pheasant species kept in captivity. It is very beautiful, hardy, easy to keep and great for beginners. The Golden has been kept in captivity since as early as 1740 and perhaps was the first type of pheasant brought to North America. Incubation lasts about 22 to 23 days. The chicks are very easy to raise, and are often used to teach rarer species to eat. Golden chicks are easy to sex when very young. The color of the female's iris is a dark brown, while the male's is much lighter.
The incubation period for pheasant eggs is 23-28 days. Incubation Temperature. The temperature in the incubator for pheasant eggs is 99.5 degrees fahrenheit. Humidity Levels. The humidity level (wet bulb thermometer) for pheasant eggs is 82-88 degrees fahrenheit. Final Day Of Egg Rotation. The final day of egg rotation for pheasant eggs is day 21. Please note that all of this information is only a guide and that this information may differ according to the incubator manufacturer’s guid
They have been laying eggs since April. I have been incubating them in a little giant still air and have had bad luck. Most of the eggs are fertile (out of 24 eggs maybe 1 wasn't fertile) they make it until the week on incubation when I candle them and put them over into my hatching incubator. (I had better luck with the chickens) We had some probs too with the hatching incubator surging temps the first time and I've since replaced it. I've now invested in a circulated air hovabator because the other ones are crappy. Anyway I am 2 days now past the hatching date (22 days) and there is no activity.