Traditional accounting. Many businesses use traditional accounting where you record income and expenses by the date you invoiced or were billed. Example You invoiced a customer on 28 March 2014. You record that invoice for the 2013 to 2014 tax year-even if you didn’t receive the money until the next tax year. With this method, you only record income or expenses when you receive money or pay a bill. This means you won’t need to pay Income Tax on money you haven’t yet received in your accounting period. Example You invoiced someone on 15 March 2014 but didn’t receive the money until 30 April 2014.
If you make any financial gifts, make sure to record them and if you're giving money or assets to your children or other relatives, you must keep the necessary records for a minimum of seven years. Keeping records and tax. HM Revenue & Customs can approach you at any time and ask to investigate your affairs from the last six years. If you haven't been keeping records correctly, you can be fined up to £3,000.
Tax records for self-employment. You must keep tax records that will allow you to complete your self-assessment tax return. These tax records need to include details of all your business income and outgoings, and of any purchases or sales of business assets. If you file your tax return late, the tax records should be kept for at least 15 months after the date of filing. This 15-month period also applies to business tax records if, exceptionally, you file your tax return several years late.
In some cases, you may need to hang onto your records longer than three years. For instance, you should plan on keeping tax forms for retirement accounts such as IRAs until seven years after the account is completely wiped out. 
You should keep business tax records relating to a particular tax year for at least five years after that year’s tax return deadline (31 January following the end of the tax year). For example, suppose you have chosen the calendar year (to 31 December) as the accounting period used for working out your annual profits. If you file your tax return late, the tax records should be kept for at least 15 months after the date of filing. This 15-month period also applies to business tax records if, exceptionally, you file your tax return several years late.
How to keep your records. There are no rules on how you must keep records. You can keep them on paper, digitally or as part of a software program (like book-keeping software). can charge you a penalty if your records aren’t accurate, complete and readable
You’ll also need to keep records of your personal income. If you’re the nominated partner in a partnership, you must also keep records for the partnership. There are different rules on keeping records for limited companies. With this method, you only record income or expenses when you receive money or pay a bill. This means you won’t need to pay Income Tax on money you haven’t yet received in your accounting period. Example You invoiced someone on 15 March 2014 but didn’t receive the money until 30 April 2014.
But for businesses you will need to keep them a bit longer: for sole traders or limited liability companies, you should keep the records of accounts, expenditure and receipts for at least 6 years, not including the year you are in. For VAT records also you will need to keep your records for a minimum of 6 years. The Inland Revenue (now HMRC) gives guidelines on this, and says that for self assessment returns you need to keep your records for 5 full years after the latest date for filing the return.
If you have to complete an annual self-assessment form for the taxman, then you probably find the process quite traumatic. Finding your financial statements in time for the tax return deadline may make you wish that you'd kept your financial records in better order. Keeping records and tax. HM Revenue & Customs can approach you at any time and ask to investigate your affairs from the last six years. If you haven't been keeping records correctly, you can be fined up to £3,000.