Photodisc/ Getty Images. The average hospital stay after a C-section is longer than for a vaginal birth -- four days after a C-section and only two days after a vaginal delivery.
After the procedure. After a C-section, most mothers and babies stay in the hospital for two to three days. To control pain as the anesthesia wears off, you might use a pump that allows you to adjust the dose of intravenous (IV) pain medication. Soon after your C-section, you'll be encouraged to get up and walk.
Vaginal delivery might be more painful, but C-section recovery pain is often intense, and the new mother needs a few weeks to gain full mobility. After a C-section, doctors closely monitor the mother for the first 24 hours and give her pain medication throughout the hospital stay.
After your cesarean, recovery time in the hospital generally lasts 2 to 4 days. After your cesarean section, you will either be moved to a recovery room or directly to a hospital bed in the labor and delivery area, where you will be closely monitored.
Friday 10:16pm son was born, Sunday 11:35am discharged from the hospital. I was 39 years old and this was my 2nd c-section 10 years after giving birth to twins via c-section. I gave birth in Philadelphia, Pa the first time and stayed 7 days in
In most cases, it takes longer to recover from a caesarean section than it does after a vaginal delivery. You should be able to get out of bed fairly soon after the operation, and your wound dressing may be removed after 24 hours. Women generally stay in hospital for two to four days after a caesarean section.
Recovery While in the Hospital. You will probably be in the hospital for 2 to 4 days after your cesarean section. Some women need to stay longer. The time you spend in the hospital depends on how well your surgery went and how well you are healing.
The average hospital stay after C-section is 2 to 3 days. Recovery takes longer than it would from a vaginal birth. You should walk around after the C-section to speed recovery. Pain medicines taken by mouth can help ease discomfort.