When iron metabolism is in a healthy balance, the body will actively reduce the absorption of dietary iron if it senses an increasing burden. However, this feedback loop is broken in hemochromatosis. Once excess iron begins to build in the body, the burden of oxidative stress increases. Like most metabolic functions in the body, we strive for balance with iron– not too little, not too much. Our bodies have a wonderful array of mechanisms to regulate how much iron we have in our blood stream, in our cells, and stored away for future use.
Iron is mainly absorbed in the duodenum and upper jejunum. A transporter protein called divalent metal transporter 1 (DMT1) facilitates transfer of iron across the intestinal epithelial cells. DMT1 also facilitates uptake of other trace metals, both good (manganese, copper, cobalt, zinc) and bad (cadmium, lead). Only a small fraction of the body's iron is gained or lost each day. Most of the iron in the body is recycled when old red blood cells are taken out of circulation and destroyed, with their iron scavenged by macrophages in the mononuclear phagocyte system, mainly spleen, and returned to the storage pool for re-use.
Understanding iron metabolism is also important for understanding diseases of iron overload, such as hereditary hemochromatosis, and iron deficiency, such as iron deficiency anemia. The human body needs iron for oxygen transport. Oxygen (O 2) is required for the functioning and survival of nearly all cell types (mature erythrocytes being one exception). Oxygen is transported from the lungs to the rest of the body bound to the heme group of hemoglobin in erythrocytes.
By Eric Lewis. Iron metabolism should be all about balance. In good health, human iron metabolism is a beautiful symphony orchestra of events. Like most metabolic functions in the body, we strive for balance with iron– not too little, not too much. Our bodies have a wonderful array of mechanisms to regulate how much iron we have in our blood stream, in our cells, and stored away for future use.
Genes involved in iron metabolism disorders include HFE and TFR2. Hepcidin is the master regulator of iron metabolism and, therefore, most genetic forms of iron overload can be thought of as relative hepcidin deficiency in one way or another. For instance, a severe form of iron overload, juvenile hemochromatosis, is a result of severe hepcidin deficiency. 
Normal Iron Metabolism. A well-balanced diet contains sufficient iron to meet body requirements. About 10% of the normal 10 to 20 mg of dietary iron is absorbed each day, and this is sufficient to balance the 1 to 2 mg daily losses from desquamation of epithelia. Only a small fraction of the body's iron is gained or lost each day. Most of the iron in the body is recycled when old red blood cells are taken out of circulation and destroyed, with their iron scavenged by macrophages in the mononuclear phagocyte system, mainly spleen, and returned to the storage pool for re-use.
Iron Metabolism. Iron is critical to a number of synthetic and enzymatic processes. Most of the body iron is part of the hemoglobin molecule where iron serves a key role in oxygen transport. Iron is recycled and thus conserved by the body. Daily intake (1 mg) s balanced against small daily losses (1 mg)
iron metabolism, a series of processes involved in the entry of iron into the body and its absorption, transport, storage, use in the formation of hemoglobin and other iron compounds, and eventual excretion. Once in the blood, iron cycles between the plasma and the reticuloendothelial or erythropoietic system. For hemoglobin synthesis, plasma iron is delivered to the normoblast, where it remains up to 4 months, trapped in the hemoglobin molecules of a mature red cell. Senescent red cells then deteriorate and break down.