Find sources: Flora, Fauna, and Merryweather – news · newspapers · books · scholar · JSTOR · free images (March 2015). Flora, Fauna and Merryweather are the protagonists of Walt Disney 's 1959 film Sleeping Beauty. They are characterized as Princess Aurora 's fairy godmothers, who appear at baby Aurora's christening to present their gifts to her, as welll as her guardians and/or parents. Merryweather tells Flora But you can't sew, and that Fauna has no experience in cooking, and that they should switch their duties with each other; Flora objects, saying that it is Fauna's last chance to bake.
Flora, Fauna and Merryweather first appear as the invited guests of King Stefan at Aurora's christening. Each fairy intends to give a gift to Princess Aurora. Flora grants her the gift of beauty, while Fauna grants her the gift of song. But before Merryweather can give her gift, Maleficent appears. Flora's signature color is red, but her favorite color is pink. Fauna and Merryweather's favorite and signature colors are green and blue, respectively. Both Flora and Fauna's eyes are brown while Merryweather's eyes are blue.
Flora, Fauna and Merryweather first appear as the invited guests of King Stefan at Aurora's christening. Each fairy intends to give a gift to Princess Aurora. Flora grants her the gift of beauty, while Fauna grants her the gift of song. But before Merryweather can give her gift, Maleficent appears. Flora's signature color is red, but her favorite color is pink. Fauna and Merryweather's favorite and signature colors are green and blue, respectively. Both Flora and Fauna's eyes are brown while Merryweather's eyes are blue.
Flora, Fauna and Merryweather. 267 pages on this wiki. Flora, Fauna and Merryweather, known collectively as the 3 Good Fairies, are the 3 main protagonists of Disney's 1959 animated film Sleeping Beauty where they first appeared. Flora is voiced by Verna Felton, Fauna is voiced by Barbara Jo Allen, and Merryweather is voiced by Barbara Luddy. Flora is the fairy with a red pointy hat and a red dress. Fauna is the fairy with a green pointy hat and a green dress. Merryweather is the fairy with a blue pointy hat and a blue dress. Flora and Fauna both had brown eyes while Merryweather has blue eyes to match her clothing.
Flora, Fauna, and Merryweather are the three good fairies who live with Master Yen Sid in his tower in Kingdom Hearts II. They originally come from the world Enchanted Dominion and appear in Kingdom Hearts Birth by Sleep. The three fairies also appear on Aurora's pillar during Sora's Awakening in Kingdom Hearts. They are all roughly the same height as well. Flora is between the other two fairies in terms of weight and dresses in a red dress and cape, with a gold skirt under the dress with gold cuffs. Her cape is secured by a rectangular, gold broach. Her wings are small, triangular, and have a faint, red tint.
The three fairies dress very much alike in long medieval style dresses and pointy hats reminiscent of the traditional witches' hat. Flora's signature color is red, but her favorite color is pink. Fauna and Merryweather's favorite and signature colors are green and blue, respectively. Both Flora and Fauna's eyes are brown while Merryweather's eyes are blue.
Flora, Fauna and Merryweather (known collectively as the Three Good Fairies) are major characters in Disney's 1959 animated film Sleeping Beauty. In the film, Flora is voiced by Verna Felton, Fauna is voiced by Barbara Jo Allen, and Merryweather is voiced by Barbara Luddy. Flora's signature color is red, but her favorite color is pink. Fauna and Merryweather's favorite and signature colors are green and blue, respectively. Both Flora and Fauna's eyes are brown while Merryweather's eyes are blue.
Flora, Fauna and Merryweather are the three fairies who appeared in the 1959 Disney film, Sleeping Beauty. Royal Prep Teachers. Flora, Fauna and Merryweather are the three fairies who appeared in the 1959 Disney film, Sleeping Beauty. Flora fauna and merry weather work for royal prep flying derby and more.
1 Flora, Fauna and Merryweather's color schemes of red, green and blue are the primary colors of light (even though Flora's favorite color is pink). 2  This is fitting in that they are the most powerful of the good fairies. 3  In the ballet, there are six good fairies. Flora's signature color is red, but her favorite color is pink. Fauna and Merryweather's favorite and signature colors are green and blue, respectively. Both Flora and Fauna's eyes are brown while Merryweather's eyes are blue.
Princess Aurora is the title role of the film. After Maleficent curses her when she is only a baby, Aurora is taken to the woods by Flora, Fauna, and Merryweather, where her name is changed to Briar Rose to conceal her identity from Maleficent. Aurora is the third official Disney Princess