noun. Zeitgeist is defined as the spirit of a generation or a period of time. An example of zeitgeist is the free love and progressive thinking of the 1960s. noun. The spirit of the time; the taste and outlook characteristic of a period or generation: “It's easy to see how a student &ellipsis; in the 1940's could imbibe such notions. The Zeitgeist encouraged Philosopher-Kings” (James Atlas).
Zeit·geist. n. The spirit of the time; the taste and outlook characteristic of a period or generation: A new cult of technological optimism has deeply embedded itself in the zeitgeist (Sebastian Seung). 
- Peter Joseph Directs Official Black Sabbath Music Video featuring The Zeitgeist Film Series. - Zeitgeist: Moving Forward has US Broadcast Premiere via FreeSpeechTv. - Zeitgeist: Moving Forward passes 21,000,000 Views via single You Tube Post. 
zeitgeist noun [S]. › the ​general set of ​ideas, ​beliefs, ​feelings, etc. that is ​typical of a ​particular ​period in ​history. (Definition of zeitgeist from the Cambridge Advanced Learner’s Dictionary & Thesaurus © Cambridge University Press). 
Blog. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of zeitgeist from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited.
Full Definition of ZEITGEIST. : the general intellectual, moral, and cultural climate of an era. See zeitgeist defined for English-language learners. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Zeit·geist. n. The spirit of the time; the taste and outlook characteristic of a period or generation: A new cult of technological optimism has deeply embedded itself in the zeitgeist (Sebastian Seung). 
The Zeitgeist (spirit of the age or spirit of the time) is the intellectual fashion or dominant school of thought that typifies and influences the culture of a particular period in time. For example, the Zeitgeist of modernism typified and influenced architecture, art, and fashion during much of the 20th century. The German word Zeitgeist is often attributed to the philosopher Georg Hegel, but he never actually used the word. 
Thesaurus. The thesaurus of synonyms and related words is fully integrated into the dictionary. Click on the thesaurus category heading under the button in an entry to see the synonyms and related words for that meaning. A must for anyone with an interest in the changing face of language. The Macmillan Dictionary blog explores English as it is spoken around the world today. Definition and synonyms of zeitgeist from the online English dictionary from Macmillan Publishers Limited.