Pumice is a common product of explosive eruptions (plinian and ignimbrite-forming) and commonly forms zones in upper parts of silicic lavas. Pumice has an average porosity of 90%, and initially floats on water. Scoria differs from pumice in being denser. With larger vesicles and thicker vesicle walls, it sinks rapidly. Scoria is another vesicular volcanic rock that differs from pumice in having larger vesicles, thicker vesicle walls and being dark colored and denser. Pumice is created when super-heated, highly pressurized rock is violently ejected from a volcano.
Industrial and Product Uses for Pumice. Pumice has a number of characteristics that combine to make it a valuable and versatile player in a variety of industrial processes and products. Pumice is amorphous and generally inert, has a neutral pH, yet is hard enough to be used as an abrasive. Yet, because of its porous nature, pumice is amazingly lightweight.
A variety of health and beauty products that contain pumice. They include the famous Lava Soap that cleans dirty hands with tiny pieces of pumice abrasive, a foot scrub cream that works as an exfoliant to smooth sandal feet, two pumice stones, and a sponge with embedded pumice abrasive. The pumice is used as a decorative ground cover in landscaping and planters. It is used as drainage rock and soil conditioner in plantings. Pumice and scoria are also popular rocks for use as substrates in hydroponic gardening.
From a modest beginning in 1941, United States Pumice Company has grown into an international supplier of abrasive cleaning products for home, professional and industrial uses. Our roots lie in the High Sierra mountains of California, where for decades we have mined and processed natural pumice for a variety of uses. We continue to offer natural pumice products, as well as manmade pumice and other abrasive cleaning products.
Product description. How it works: Best if you want to: Say good-bye to hard skin and rough patches with a pumice that keeps your elbows, knees and feet feeling soft and smooth. 1  Use while in the bath or shower. 2  Polyurethane is an abrasive material that’s hard-wearing and durable while providing effective exfoliation.
Pumice /ˈpʌmɨs/ , called pumicite in its powdered or dust form, is a volcanic rock that consists of highly vesicular rough textured volcanic glass, which may or may not contain crystals. It is typically light colored. Scoria is another vesicular volcanic rock that differs from pumice in having larger vesicles, thicker vesicle walls and being dark colored and denser. Pumice is created when super-heated, highly pressurized rock is violently ejected from a volcano.
Pumice is a light-colored, extremely porous igneous rock that forms during explosive volcanic eruptions. It is used as aggregate in lightweight concrete, as landscaping aggregate, and as an abrasive in a variety of industrial and consumer products. The pumice is used as a decorative ground cover in landscaping and planters. It is used as drainage rock and soil conditioner in plantings. Pumice and scoria are also popular rocks for use as substrates in hydroponic gardening.