TPLO stands for Tibial Plateau Leveling Osteotomy. Basically the TPLO surgery changes the bones of the knee joint to make them work in a different, more “level” manner. 
ALTERNATIVES TO TPLO SURGERY. There are several alternatives to TPLO surgery. Although the TPLO is a great surgery to repair a torn ACL in dogs, it is not the only option.. Therefore it is best to have a conversation with your veterinarian or veterinary surgeon and discuss all of your options. There are several things that should be considered when choosing the right surgery. TPLO RECOVERY. The first 12 weeks following the TPLO (Tibial Plateau Leveling Osteotomy) surgery are a critical time of recovery and rehabilitation. There are certain activities and exercises that can be done to help your dog resume and develop full use of the affected limb.
This is a documentary style video depicting the TPLO procedure, or Tibial Plateau Leveling Osteotomy in a dog named Bandit. This surgery is performed in dogs that have suffered an ACL, or CrCL(cranial cruciate ligament) rupture. By making an elliptical cut in the top portion of the tibia, or lower leg bone, the veterinary surgeon is able to rotate the joint surface to eliminate the need for CrCL/ACL ligament in the dog.
The TPLO surgery has a steep learning curve-choose an experienced surgeon for your companion. Introduction. 1  The stifle joint (in layman's terms called the knee) of the dog is similar to a human’s knee. 2  The cranial cruciate ligament is located inside the joint and is responsible for maintaining a stable joint. 1 Unlike the convalescence from other extra-articular or intra-articular techniques, recovery from TPLO surgery frequently is more rapid and complete. 2  In our experience, about 50% of the dogs will start to walk on the limb within 24 hours after surgery.
Currently, one of the most common surgery performed for canine ACL (CCL) injury dog is the TPLO or Tibial Plateau Leveling Osteotomy. Developed by Dr. Barclay Slocum, TPLO early in its day was a radical procedure for addressing canine ACL injuries. This rubbing causes pain and inflammation, which is very uncomfortable. This is why most dogs with a torn ACL will not even put any weight on the leg, or if they do, they will just toe touch the leg to the ground. The true beauty of the surgery is that it completely alters the dynamics of the knee.
Expected results2. After recovery from the TPLO procedure, it is expected that your dog's lameness will be significantly improved with a high potential for normal weight bearing. In addition, arthritis progression is slowed. TPLO stands for tibial plateau leveling osteotomy and is a surgical procedure that makes a change to the biomechanics of the knee to reduce pain and instability. During surgery, a curved cut will be made near the top of the tibia (shin bone). 
The TPLO (Tibial Plateau Leveling Osteotomy) surgery has become one of the most popular orthopedic surgeries performed on dogs who have torn their cranial cruciate ligament, also commonly referred to as the dog acl. TPLO RECOVERY. The first 12 weeks following the TPLO (Tibial Plateau Leveling Osteotomy) surgery are a critical time of recovery and rehabilitation. There are certain activities and exercises that can be done to help your dog resume and develop full use of the affected limb.
Tibial Plateau Leveling Osteotomy (TPLO). Tibial plateau leveling osteotomy (TPLO) is an increasingly popular method for treatment of anterior cruciate ligament injury in dogs. Anterior Cruciate Ligament (ACL) ruptures, partial tears, chronic degenerative tears, and severe strains are extremely common in the dog.
The TPLO is the most common orthopedic procedure performed at DVSC for dogs with CCL disease. The theory behind the TPLO is to flatten the natural slope of the tibia in order to eliminate tibial thrust and provide stability to the knee (see procedure). The goal of the TPLO procedure is to flatten the slope of the tibia in order to eliminate abnormal thrust motion. The surgery involves an incision over the inside aspect of the knee. The joint is explored (arthrotomy) to examine the CCL, assess arthritis, and look for any meniscal injury.