According to Spritz, only 20 percent of your reading time is spent actually processing content. The rest is unnecessarily wasted, moving your eyes from one word to the next. Spritz aims to save you that time by converting your chosen blog post, email, or ebook into a flashing stream of verbiage. 
Baking Spritz Cookies: Remember-use cold and ungreased cookie sheets when baking Spritz cookies. The second batch of cookies on a cookie sheet may have trouble sticking if the cookie sheet is still warm. I usually use more than one cookie sheet when making these cookies. Recipe Type: Cookie, Christmas Cookies Yields: 6 dozen Prep time: 20 min Cook time: 12 min. Ingredients: * You must use butter in this recipe. The secret of a great spritz cookie is a dough that is fat enough to press or pipe, yet sturdy enough to hold it shape in the oven. It must be butter. ** If desired, you can also color the dough with food coloring
Familiarity information: SPRITZ used as a noun is very rare. • SPRITZ (verb). The verb SPRITZ has 2 senses: 1. eject (a liquid) quickly. 2. cover (a location) wholly or partially by squirting a liquid onto it. Familiarity information: SPRITZ used as a verb is rare.
It is the Aperol Spritz and you can get a little of the general spirit of the drink with this Italian TV ad: The Aperol Spritz is made with Prosecco (Italian sparkling wine), Aperol and a splash of soda water. As an aperitivo, it's a great way to start a meal because the Aperol is low in alcohol (11%) and tastes light and refreshing. It doesn't ruin your appetite, it stimulates it. 
The glass is then topped off with sparkling mineral water. It is usually served over ice in a lowball glass (or sometimes a martini glass or wine glass) and garnished a slice of orange, or sometimes an olive, depending on the liqueur. Another variation of the drink uses champagne with the liqueur rather than prosecco.
Full Definition of SPRITZ. transitive verb. : spray. intransitive verb. : to disperse or apply a spray. — spritz noun. See spritz defined for English-language learners. 
Instructions. The perfect Spritz is prepared in a wine glass, or rock. Add ice, Prosecco, dash of seltz and top with Aperol. This is to avoid that the Aperol settles on the bottom. Garnish with a slice of orange
The Spritz (German: splash / sparkling, also called Spritz Veneziano or just Veneziano) is a wine-based cocktail commonly served as an aperitif in Northeast Italy. The drink is prepared with prosecco wine, a dash of some bitter liqueur such as Aperol, Campari, Cynar, or, especially in Venice, with Select. It is usually served over ice in a lowball glass (or sometimes a martini glass or wine glass) and garnished a slice of orange, or sometimes an olive, depending on the liqueur. Another variation of the drink uses champagne with the liqueur rather than prosecco.