The ATP Molecule. For 3-D Structure of this image using Jmol. Click here. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the nucleotide known in biochemistry as the molecular currency of intracellular energy transfer; that is, ATP is able to store and transport chemical energy within cells. ATP also plays an important role in the synthesis of nucleic acids. Energy is released by hydrolysis of the third phosphate group. After this third phosphate group is released, the resulting ADP (adenosine diphosphate) can absorb energy and regain the group, thus regenerating an ATP molecule; this allows ATP to store energy like a rechargeable battery.
ATP (Adenosine triphosphate). 1  It is the major energy currency of the cell, providing the energy for most of the energy-consuming activities of the cell. 2  It is one of the monomers used in the synthesis of RNA and, after conversion to deoxyATP (dATP), DNA. 3  It regulates many biochemical pathways. 1
Free Energy from Hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the energy currency of life and it provides that energy for most biological processes by being converted to ADP (adenosine diphosphate). Since the basic reaction involves a water molecule, this reaction is commonly referred to as the hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine Triphosphate. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is considered by biologists to be the energy currency of life. It is the high-energy molecule that stores the energy we need to do just about everything we do.
ATP transports chemical energy within cells for metabolism. It is one of the end products of photophosphorylation, cellular respiration, and fermentation and used by enzymes and structural proteins in many cellular processes, including biosynthetic reactions, motility, and cell division. Three phosphate groups are attached at the 5' carbon atom of the pentose sugar. It is the addition and removal of these phosphate groups that inter-convert ATP, ADP and AMP. When ATP is used in DNA synthesis, the ribose sugar is first converted to deoxyribose by ribonucleotide reductase.
Energy is usually liberated from the ATP molecule to do work in the cell by a reaction that removes one of the phosphate-oxygen groups, leaving adenosine diphosphate (ADP). When the ATP converts to ADP, the ATP is said to be spent. 
ATP stands for adenosine triphosphate. It is a molecule found in the cells of living organisms. It is said to be very important because it transports the energy necessary for all cellular metabolic activities. It is dubbed as the universal unit of energy for living organisms. Without ATP, various metabolic activities in the human body cannot take place. ATP molecules are called the drivers of cellular metabolism. They carry the energy needed by a particular cellular activity. Another important thing about this molecule is that it is recyclable.
These molecules are produced through various processes including cellular respiration and phosphorylation. ATP molecules are called the drivers of cellular metabolism. They carry the energy needed by a particular cellular activity. Another important thing about this molecule is that it is recyclable.
ATP is a nucleotide that contains a large amount of chemical energy stored in its high-energy phosphate bonds. It releases energy when it is broken down (hydrolyzed) into ADP (or Adenosine Diphosphate). The energy is used for many metabolic processes. 