If you are going into general medicine, such as family medicine or internal medicine, you will finish residency in 3 years. However, if you go into neurological surgery, you will finish residency in 7 years. So the answer to the question, “how long is medical school,” is 4 years. But medical school alone is not enough to practice medicine as a doctor. If you include residency and fellowship, you will need at least 7 years from the first day of medical school before you can practice medicine in the United States. Lastly, you will need to finish your residency and fellowship. To answer the question of how long is medical school, it is not enough just to tell you about medical school itself. Instead, I would rather talk about the medical training as a whole.
And after graduating, the medical training is not over. Residency and fellowship (which is additional training after residency) awaits. They can last anywhere from 3 years to 6 years. So as you can see, it’ll take at least 7 years after college before you can practice medicine in the United States. Lastly, you will need to finish your residency and fellowship. To answer the question of how long is medical school, it is not enough just to tell you about medical school itself. Instead, I would rather talk about the medical training as a whole.
Residency is a stage of graduate medical training. A resident or house officer is a physician (holding either a M.D. , D.O. , MBBS, MBChB, BMed or D.P.M. degree) who practices medicine usually in a hospital or clinic. The definition of residency varies worldwide by country and structure of the medical industry. In the US, it is classically associated with physicians (M.D., D.O. or D.P.M.). The training programs of allied health professionals may also involve a period of training termed residency.. Critics of long residency hours trace the problem to the fact that a resident has no alternatives to positions that are offered, meaning residents must accept all conditions of employment, including very long work hours, and that they must also, in many cases, contend with poor supervision.
The UK grade equivalent of a US fellow in medical/surgical sub-specialties is the specialty registrar (ST3 - ST9) grade of sub-specialty training, but note that while US fellowship programmes are generally 2–3 years in duration after completing the residency, UK trainees spend 4–7 years. Critics of long residency hours trace the problem to the fact that a resident has no alternatives to positions that are offered, meaning residents must accept all conditions of employment, including very long work hours, and that they must also, in many cases, contend with poor supervision.
Medical residencies last from 3-7 years in total. Most medical residencies are four years long, with surgical residencies being five years long. A neurosurgery residency is the longest, at seven years. Bryce Johnson co-founded premedFAQ.com in 2011 and is the author of Must Reads for the Well-Rounded Pre-Med on Amazon.
The Role of Medical Residency Programs and the Medical Resident in the Healthcare System. The residency program is a fundamental part of our healthcare system and the use of low-paid interns and residents help control costs. Residents work long hours and can be on call every 2 to 4 days. Historically they often spent 30 to 36 hours at a time in the hospital, often with little or no sleep. 1 Before work-hour changes resident physicians work up to 120 hours a week, including 36 hour shifts for several weeks at a time. 2  After 24 hours of wakefulness, cognitive function deteriorates to a level equivalent to having a 0.1% blood alcohol level.
The age most people finish medical school really depends – medical school is 4 years and residency is anywhere from 3 to 5 years. Some people pursue fellowships for an additional year or two afterwards. 
Many specialties offer advanced fellowship training after residency (typically one to three years). Consult the current AMA Graduate Medical Education Directory (the Green Book) for the official requirements and required length of advanced training. The various types of residencies are listed below. These are unofficial assignments derived from published materials and are offered only for information.
Depending on your specialty, medical residency can last from a minimum of two years to six or more. After accumulating debt over the previous eight years, you will finally be drawing a small paycheck. The pay starts at about $32,000 for the first year and tops out around $48,000 for sixth-year residents. 1 Before work-hour changes resident physicians work up to 120 hours a week, including 36 hour shifts for several weeks at a time. 2  After 24 hours of wakefulness, cognitive function deteriorates to a level equivalent to having a 0.1% blood alcohol level.
Internship, Residency and Fellowship. As I discussed above, Residency is a 3+ year training program in a medical specialty. The first year of training after medical school is called internship, or more commonly it is called first year of residency or PGY-1 (PostGraduate Year-1). The following years are called PGY-2, PGY-3, etc. The training that is done after a residency (in a subspecialty) is usually called a fellowship. Much of what you will learn in your chosen specialty will be learned in your residency. It's hard to believe that, after 12 years of school, 4 years of college and 4 years of medical school, there is still so much to learn.