When a nerve is stimulated, its cell membrane is depolarised so that the inside of the cell becomes less negative. The potential is conducted along the axon to the axon termin … al. At the dendrite it stimulates the release of a chemical transmitter, which diffuses across a synapse. The transmitter binds to receptor sites on the postsynaptic cell membrane to stimulate the generation of another impulse. + 4 others found this useful.
The events that occur in peripheral regeneration occur with respect to the axis of the nerve injury. The proximal stump refers to the end of the injured neuron that is still attached to the neuron cell body; it is the part that regenerates. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. When a nerve is stimulated, its cell membrane is depolarised so that the inside of the cell becomes less. negative. The potential is conducted along the axon to the axon terminal. At the dendrite it stimulates the. Nerves form a network of pathways for conducting information throughout the body. Neuron: Any of the impulse-conducting cells that constitute the brain, spinal column, and nerves, consisting of a nucleated cell body with one or more dendrites and a single axon. Also called nerve cell.
A neuron is a nerve cell, and a nerve is a whole bunch of neurons. + 7 others found this useful. Chadwick Sterling. Edit. Share to: 1  Stimulation of the Vagal Nerves to Relieve Depression Doctors consider using Vagal Nerve Stimulation (VNS) as a treatment for depression. Nerves form a network of pathways for conducting information throughout the body. Neuron: Any of the impulse-conducting cells that constitute the brain, spinal column, and nerves, consisting of a nucleated cell body with one or more dendrites and a single axon. Also called nerve cell.
A neuromuscular junction (sometimes called a myoneural junction) is a junction between nerve and muscle; it is a chemical synapse formed by the contact between the presynaptic terminal of a motor neuron and the postsynaptic membrane of a muscle fiber. In vertebrates, motor neurons release acetylcholine (ACh), a small molecule neurotransmitter, which diffuses across the synaptic cleft and binds to nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) on the cell membrane of the muscle fiber, also known as the sarcolemma.
Muscle Fiber Excitation. The events already described (calcium entry, cross-bridge cycling) occur when a muscle fiber is excited to fire an action potential. An action potential is triggered in a muscle fiber when it is depolarized due to excitation at its synapse, the neuromuscular junction. Each muscle fiber has one neuromuscular junction, receiving input from just one somatic efferent neuron.
The typical and most frequent type of synapse is the one in which the axon of one neuron connects to a second neuron by usually making contact with one of its dendrites or with the cell body. There are two ways in which this can happen: the electrical and the chemical synapses. A nerve impulse is the transmission of a coded signal from a given stimulus along the membrane of the neuron, starting in the point where it was applied. Nerve impulses can pass from one cell to another, thus creating a chain of information within a network of neurons.
The cell membrane of a muscle cell is called the sarcolemma, and this membrane, like that of neurons, maintains a membrane potential. So, impulses travel along muscle cell membranes just as they do along nerve cell membranes. However, the 'function' of impulses in muscle cells is to bring about contraction. 
In other cells, such as gland cells and ciliated cells, it is believed that the membrane voltage is important to the execution of cell function. The origin of the membrane voltage is the same in nerve cells as in muscle cells. In both cell types, the membrane generates an impulse as a consequence of excitation. This impulse propagates in both cell types in the same manner. What follows is a short introduction to the anatomy and physiology of nerve cells. All cells exhibit a voltage difference across the cell membrane. Nerve cells and muscle cells are excitable. Their cell membrane can produce electrochemical impulses and conduct them along the membrane. In muscle cells, this electric phenomenon is also associated with the contraction of the cell.