There, the temperature and humidity are relatively low, and things are pretty quiet. As much as possible, we should try to duplicate those surroundings for chinchillas in captivity. Temperature, humidity, cage location. Temperature: In the wild, chinchillas normally live at a relatively high altitude-over 12,000 feet. Their normal environmental temperature is cool and dry. Therefore, in captivity, they do best when housed at temperatures between 55 and 70ºF. For a single animal, the cage should be at least 30 tall, 24 wide and 15 deep. A 6 x 6 x 3 foot cage would be ideal. Cages with 'multiple stories,' often referred to as 'condo cages,' allow your chinchilla to move in many directions and are recommended.
Humidity: Chinchillas do best in low humidity (40-50%), so the room they are in must be well-ventilated and NOT damp. If the humidity is too low, however, as occurs in some Northern houses in the winter, chinchillas may lose hair and be more prone to respiratory illnesses. Location: Locate the cage in a well-lit area. For a single animal, the cage should be at least 30 tall, 24 wide and 15 deep. A 6 x 6 x 3 foot cage would be ideal. Cages with 'multiple stories,' often referred to as 'condo cages,' allow your chinchilla to move in many directions and are recommended.
In the winter months it should be kept in a draft-free spot. The ideal temperature for a chinchilla is 68° F. One owner reports, I keep mine at a constant 58 and they love it. I find they are more active at this temperature than at 60 or higher. Be sure the wire is not painted or coated with plastic or the chin will ingest this coating. The wire mesh should have spaces no larger than 1 - 2 inches (2.6 - 5.1 cm) apart, ½ - 1 inch (1.3 - 2.6 cm) if you are breeding.
Chinchillele not transpire and, therefore, the fan should blow air at room temperature for them. In chinchille ears are pink when they are overheated. Many animals have large ears compared to the body (eg elephants) is cool with it. I do not think a fan would be inconvenient for a chinchilla, but I did not do well. If room temperature exceeds 25 ° C then you should take precautions to protect animals. If it's warmer and more than 30 ° C, then you are in a mess. You need to do certain things: to put into operation the heat if you are lucky to have him, if you get above 25 ° C, then good, not lower the temperature further.
You must have or find the best and the most suitable environment to house your chinchilla. Find the best place – room to place their cage. Chinchillas cannot be put in direct sunlight because of the possibility of overheating. Room Temperature should never be more than 24 Celsius. Chinchillas ideal room temperature is 10-15 Celsius and they can survive temperatures as low as zero. Humidity should be lower than 70%. They should also be kept away from windows and radiators. They sleep at day so they need a quite dark (not completely dark) place. 
If the temp is 100 degrees and the humidity is 20% that is less than 150 but will still cause death due to heat stroke. Chins have ranges they can live in comfortably. An ideal temperature is 60°F to 70°F with a humidity level of 40% to 60%. Although chinchillas can live in a cage, they will be healthiest if given a room or hallway to run in for a few hours each night. This gives them an opportunity to explore and to get some exercise beyond what a wheel can provide.
Chinchillas are very active, have a lot of energy, and love to climb. The more room she has, both horizontally and vertically, the happier your chinchilla will be. For a single animal, the cage should be at least 30 tall, 24 wide and 15 deep. A 6 x 6 x 3 foot cage would be ideal. Cages with 'multiple stories,' often referred to as 'condo cages,' allow your chinchilla to move in many directions and are recommended.
Chinchilla Cage, Environment and Food. Room Temperature should never be more than 24 Celsius. Chinchillas ideal room temperature is 10-15 Celsius and they can survive temperatures as low as zero. Humidity should be lower than 70%. Preferably 40-60%. 
A chinchilla cage should be housed in a room that is quiet, light, airy, cool with an ideal room temperature between 60°-75°F (15.5°-25°C). 
Chinchillas need to be housed at a temperature which is below 25°C (77°F). 10-15°C (50-59°) is ideal although they can survive temperatures as low as 0°C (32°F) if the atmosphere is dry and draught free. They suffer greatly in high humidity or high temperatures and should be kept away from windows and radiators. 