How long and at what temperature should I cook a beef roast in the oven? Roasting is a great cooking method for a large, tender cut of beef  such as a rib or sirloin roast. Sirloin-tip, rump, rolled-rump, eye-of-round or top-round roasts will also benefit from this cooking method if they are graded prime or choice. 
Searing before cooking. You can sear the roast before you cook the roast. What this does is to help brown the roast and seal in the juices. You could stick your roast in an extremely hot oven and then turn the oven down, but this can dry out your roast. If you sear it you will sear the edges of the beef quickly, so it retains the juice.
1 Place roast in pan, and season with salt, garlic powder, and pepper. 2  Add more or less seasonings to taste. 3  Roast in oven for 60 minutes (20 minutes per pound). 4  Remove from oven, cover loosely with foil, and let rest for 15 to 20 minutes. 1 Regardless of the size of your roast, always cook at 375 degrees, for 20 minutes per pound. 2  Slice thinly and serve with gravy, mashed potatoes, salad and veggie of choice.
The oven temperature used to cook a beef roast is usually set somewhere between 300 degrees and 450 degrees Fahrenheit. The recommended cooking temperature for your roast is usually determined by the type of beef cut that you plan to roast. 
Preheat the oven to 350 degrees F. Make a dry rub by combining chili powder, salt, garlic and onion powders, black pepper, sugar, dry mustard, and bay leaf. Season the raw brisket on both sides with the rub. Place in a roasting pan and roast, uncovered, for 1 hour. 
Searing before cooking. You can sear the roast before you cook the roast. What this does is to help brown the roast that will give your meat more flavor. You could stick your roast in an extremely hot oven and then turn the oven down, but this can dry out your roast. If you sear it, you will sear the edges of the beef quickly, so it retains the juice. To prepare the meat remove from the refrigerator 60 minutes before cooking. This will give the roast a chance to reach room temperature. Preheat oven to 325 degrees. If the roast is very lean you may want to drizzle a tablespoon of olive oil or two over the roast. Sprinkle salt and pepper over the roast. Place the roast on a wire rack on a baking sheet. Bake the roast for approximately 25 to 30 minutes for every pound of meat for a roast to be cooked to medium. Adjust accordingly for your preferred level of doneness. You should use a meat thermometer to determine when the roast is don
1 I sit a few slices on the bottom of my roast too. 2  Sprinkle roast generously with garlic powder, or to your liking. 3  DO NOT SALT roast, or you will dry it out. 4  Put roast in the oven on the middle rack. 5  Bake at 500 degrees for 5 minutes per pound, then shut off oven, and let sit in the oven for 1 hour. 1 Put the roast in a shallow pan. ( 2 I use a cookie sheet). 3  Cut onion into thin rings, and put all over the top and sides of the roast using toothpicks if necessary. 4  I sit a few slices on the bottom of my roast too. 5  Sprinkle roast generously with garlic powder, or to your liking. 6
1 Sprinkle roast generously with garlic powder, or to your liking. 2  DO NOT SALT roast, or you will dry it out. 3  Put roast in the oven on the middle rack. 4  Bake at 500 degrees for 5 minutes per pound, then shut off oven, and let sit in the oven for 1 hour. 1 Put the roast in a shallow pan. ( 2 I use a cookie sheet). 3  Cut onion into thin rings, and put all over the top and sides of the roast using toothpicks if necessary. 4  I sit a few slices on the bottom of my roast too. 5  Sprinkle roast generously with garlic powder, or to your liking. 6
3. Place the tray in the oven and roast for 1/2 hour. For the first half hour, the beef will cook at a higher temperature, which will give the outside of the beef a good sear. Make sure you remember to come back to the oven after 1/2 hour. If you're using vegetables, pile them into your roasting tray, then spread them out to make an even layer. Sprinkle with salt and pepper and drizzle with a bit of olive oil. Lay out the garlic in an even layer. Place the beef on top of the vegetables.