Location of the Halogens on the Periodic Table. The halogens are located in Group VIIA of the periodic table, and are a particular class of nonmetals. The halogen elements are fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine, astatine, and ununseptium. Properties. These reactive nonmetals have seven valence electrons. As a group, halogens exhibit highly variable physical properties. Halogens range from solid (I 2) to liquid (Br 2) to gaseous (F 2 and Cl 2) at room temperature. The chemical properties are more uniform. The halogens have very high electronegativities. Fluorine has the highest electronegativity of all elements. The halogens are particularly reactive with the alkali metals and alkaline earths, forming stable ionic crystals.
Halogens A halogen is one of the highly reactive elements located in group 17 of the periodic table. The halogens (in increasing atomic mass) are: fluorine, chlorine, bromine, … iodine, and astatine. The halogens or halogen elements are a series of nonmetal elements from Group 17 IUPAC Style (formerly: VII, VIIA, or Group 7) of the periodic table, comprising fluorine, F; c … hlorine, Cl; bromine, Br; iodine, I; and astatine, At. The undiscovered element 117, temporarily named ununseptium, may also be a halogen.
The halogens or halogen elements (/ˈhaelɵdʒɨn/) ˈhælɵdʒɨn are a group in the periodic table consisting of five chemically related: elements (Fluorine), f (Chlorine), cl (Bromine), br (Iodine), i and (Astatine). At the artificially created element (117) ununseptium may also be a. halogen The halogens or halogen elements (/ˈhaelɵdʒɨn/) ˈhælɵdʒɨn are a group in the periodic table consisting of five chemically related: elements (Fluorine), f (Chlorine), cl (Bromine), br (Iodine), i and (Astatine). at
Halogen Compounds. Referenced in 3 quiz questions. The five halogens are: fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine and astatine., oxygen, sulfur, selenium, tellurium and polonium., nitrogen, oxygen, fluorine, chlorine and bromine., or boron, carbon, nitrogen, oxygen and fluorine.
Halogens A halogen is one of the highly reactive elements located in group 17 of the periodic table. The halogens (in increasing atomic mass) are: fluorine, chlorine, bromine, … iodine, and astatine. Halogens are the name of a group of non-metal elements found on the Periodic Table, Group 7A (or 17). Halogens include fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine and astatine. Haloge … n lamps usually contain an inert (Noble) gas and a small amount of bromine or iodine surrounding the filament.
Definition of Halogens. Vertical columns on the periodic table contain elements that exhibit similar properties. These columns are commonly referred to by chemists as groups or families. There are a total of 18 groups on the periodic table. The halogens are all elements that are found in group 17. The halogens include fluorine, chlorine, bromine, iodine, and astatine. All of these elements are considered to be reactive nonmetals. 
Halogens display physical and chemical properties typical of nonmetals. They have relatively low melting and boiling points that increase steadily down the group. Near room temperature, the halogens span all of the physical states: Fluorine and chlorine are gases, bromine is a liquid, and iodine is a solid. 
Properties. All halogen characteristics can be attributed as occurring due to the innate physical and chemical properties that the elements of this group possess in common. The following table summarizes the various properties of halogens. A unique characteristic of halogens is that it is the only group in the entire periodic table that is composed of elements that belong to all three classical states of matter (solid, liquid, and gas), when kept under standard conditions of pressure and temperature. Important Characteristics.
The halogens are a group of elements in the periodic table. They are located to the right of the other nonmetals and to the left of the noble gases. Elements in the halogen group have seven electrons in their outer shells giving them many unique properties. 