any one of four major kinds of thin sheets of tissue that cover or line various parts of the body. Mucous membrane lines cavities or canals of the body that open to the outside, such as the linings of the mouth, the digestive tube, the respiratory passages, and the genitourinary tract. olfactory membrane the olfactory portion of the mucous membrane lining the nasal fossa. placental membrane the membrane that separates the fetal from the maternal blood in the placenta. plasma membrane the membrane that encloses a cell; it is composed of phospholipids, glycolipids, cholesterol, and proteins.
Tweet. : a thin, wet layer of skin that is inside some parts of the body (such as the nose and throat) and that produces mucus. : a membrane rich in mucous glands; specifically: one that lines body passages and cavities which communicate directly or indirectly with the exterior. Full Definition of MUCOUS MEMBRANE. : a membrane rich in mucous glands; specifically: one that lines body passages and cavities which communicate directly or indirectly with the exterior. See mucous membrane defined for English-language learners.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A mucous membrane or mucosa (plural, mucosae or mucosas; Latin tunica mucosa) is a lining of mostly endodermal origin. It consists of an epithelium (a layer, or layers of epithelial cells) and an underlying lamina propria of loose connective tissue. Some mucous membranes are involved with digestion in the absorption of insoluble food molecules and secretion (releasing chemicals from glands). The thick fluid secreted by some mucous membranes and/or associated glands is termed mucus.
10 most extreme places on Earth. A mucous membrane is a layer of epithelial tissue which lines an area of the body which comes into contact with air. Mucous membranes are moist because of the presence of glands which secrete a thick fluid known as mucus, and they are important for a number of bodily functions. A mucous membrane is a layer of epithelial tissue which lines an area of the body which comes into contact with air
mu·cous membrane. Any of the membranes lining the passages of the body that open onto the outside, such as the respiratory and digestive tracts. Cells in the mucous membranes secrete mucus, which lubricates the membranes and protects against infection. mucous membrane. n. 1. (Anatomy) a mucus-secreting membrane that lines body cavities or passages that are open to the external environment. Also called: mucosa.
The nose and the sinuses are lined with a membrane that produces mucus. 1  When air enters the nose, it is warmed, moistened, and filtered before passing into the lungs. 2  Dust, smoke, bacteria, and other irritants often become trapped in the mucus that lines the nasal passages. If the mucous membrane becomes inflamed, it may swell, blocking the openings that drain the sinuses. Mucus inside the sinuses then becomes trapped. Both the inflammation and the pressure of trapped mucus cause pain.
They are found in your nose and in your mouth also around your eyes. Mucous membranes are tissues that line body cavities or canals such as the throat, nose, mouth, urethra, rectum, and vagina. Mucous membranes produce a thick, slippery liquid called mucus that protects the membranes and keeps them moist. Mucus membranes line the nose and throat.Some creams ,such as Sudocream carry a warning not to get any on the mucus membranes,they mean the nose and mouth/throat.
A mucous membrane or mucosa (plural, mucosae or mucosas; Latin tunica mucosa) is a lining of mostly endodermal origin. Some mucous membranes are involved with digestion in the absorption of insoluble food molecules and secretion (releasing chemicals from glands). The thick fluid secreted by some mucous membranes and/or associated glands is termed mucus.
The urethra is also lined with a mucous membrane. Some mucous membranes are involved with digestion in the absorption of insoluble food molecules and secretion (releasing chemicals from glands). The thick fluid secreted by some mucous membranes and/or associated glands is termed mucus. The mucus can be protectiv