The verse does not say infidels it says idolaters. (9:5) And when the forbidden months have passed, kill the idolaters wherever you find them and take them prisoners, and beleaguer them, and lie in wait for them at every place of ambush. But if they repent and observe Prayer and pay the Zakat, then leave their way free. Surely, Allah is Most Forgiving, Merciful.
Someone said, Your Quran says to kill all the Jews and Christians.., how do we answer harsh question and attacks against Islam? Before we begin, it is important to begin with the Name of Allah-and ask Him to send peace and blessings upon Muhammad, peace be upon him. And Remember Allahu 'Alim - it is only Allah who is the True Knower of all Things. This is absolutely not true and it is quite easy to prove.
I shall cast terror into the hearts of the infidels. Strike off their heads, strike off the very tips of their fingers. Quran 8:12, The Spoils, Dawood, p. 177. Fight for the sake of God those that fight against you, but do not attack them first. God does not love the aggressors. Slay them wherever you find them. Quotes from the Koran/Quran. About sixty-one percent of the contents of the Koran are found to speak ill of the unbelievers or call for their violent conquest; at best only 2.6 percent of the verses of the Koran are noted to show goodwill toward humanity.
| Send to a friend. A popular topic. The topic of the killing of infidels remains popular with terrorism “experts,” talk show hosts and amateur theologians. Most of the discussions, especially those in the media, are being put forth by individuals with weak or no backgrounds in either religion or terrorism. 
Indeed, Allah is Forgiving and Merciful.. The italicized part is the part that is referenced by people when they say Koran says kill the infidels.. When this verse is snipped out of context like it usually is, of course it will seem like it is a clear order to kill all pagans. To clarify one point, never in the Qur'an is the word infidel used
There is not such a meaning in the Quran, ordering or even permitting the Muslims to ever attack innocent people whether they are Christians, Jews, or any other faith for that matter. Combat is only ordered against those who are attacking or killing the innocent Muslims or fighting against the established Muslim state. Before we begin, it is important to begin with the Name of Allah-and ask Him to send peace and blessings upon Muhammad, peace be upon him. And Remember Allahu 'Alim - it is only Allah who is the True Knower of all Things. This is absolutely not true and it is quite easy to prove.
Answer: The Qur'an commands Muslims to stick up for themselves in a defensive battle -- i.e. if an enemy army attacks, then Muslims are to fight against that army until they stop their aggression. All of the verses that speak about fighting/war in the Quran are in this context. There are some specific verses that are very often snipped out of context, either by critics of Islam discussing  jihadism , or by misguided Muslims themselves who wish to justify their aggressive tactics. Fight in the cause of God those who fight you, but do not transgress limits; for God loves not transgressors. And slay them wherever you catch them, and turn them out from where they have turned you out; for tumult and oppression are worse than slaughter... But if they cease, God is Oft-forgiving, Most Merciful...
Any verse that is quoted out of context misses the whole point of the message of the Quran. Nowhere in the Quran can be found support for indiscriminate slaughter, the killing of non-combatants, or murder of innocent persons in 'payback' for another people's alleged crimes. Fight in the cause of God those who fight you, but do not transgress limits; for God loves not transgressors. And slay them wherever you catch them, and turn them out from where they have turned you out; for tumult and oppression are worse than slaughter... But if they cease, God is Oft-forgiving, Most Merciful...
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: 2:191 And slay them wherever ye find them, and drive them out of the places whence they drove you out, for persecution is worse than slaughter. And fight not with them at the Inviolable Place of Worship until they first attack you there, but if they attack you (there) then slay them. 