By N.S. Gill. Like other ancient civilizations, the basic ancient Greek foods were cereals, legumes, oil, and wine. Many ancient Greeks lived in Magna Graecia (Megale Hellas), so the food of the Romans overlaps that of the Greeks. There were, of course, other influences on ancient Greek foods, especially from Asia.
Food in Ancient Greece. The Greek diet consisted of foods that were easily raised in the rocky terrain of Greece’s landscape. Breakfast was eaten just after sunrise and consisted of bread dipped in wine. Lunch was again bread dipped in wine along with some olives, figs, cheese or dried fish. Supper was the main meal of each day. It was eaten near sunset. It consisted of vegetables, fruit, fish, and possibly honey cakes. Sugar was unknown to ancient Greeks, so natural honey was used as a sweetener. Fish was the main source of protein in the Greek diet. Beef was very expensive, so it was rarely eaten.
During the early part of Greek history, as shown in the Odyssey, Greek agriculture-and diet-was based on cereals (sitos, though usually translated as wheat, could in fact designate any type of cereal grain). In reality, 90% of cereal production was barley. 
For example, tomatoes, peppers, potatoes, and bananas didn't arrive in Greece until after the discovery of the Americas in the 15th century, because that's where those foods originated. Lemons, oranges, eggplant, and rice also arrived later. But the ancient Greeks enjoyed a varied diet. Vegetables, legumes, and fruit were the mainstay, and fish was a favorite. Hunting brought game to the menu. To see a detailed article discussing how to eat like an ancient Greek, click here: Eating Like An Ancient Greek.
Therefore, agriculture was very important in ancient Greece because the crops farmers grew and the animals they raised were what Greeks ate. The ancient Greeks ate many different kinds of foods. Since they lived near the Mediterranean Sea, they usually caught fish, squid, and octopus for their meals. Most farmers didn't only grow crops, but also raised animals that they later killed for food. Donkeys, sheep, and goats were raised most often in ancient Greece. Farming in ancient Greece was difficult due to the limited amount of good soil and cropland.
As with many cultures, most of the food Greeks ate was grown and hunted. Marketplaces did exist in Ancient Greece, but only the moderately-rich to the elite class could afford to buy their food that way. For the poor, growing food, hunting, and fishing were they only viable options. 
The other kind of meat that they ate was the meat of small birds. In addition to these meats, ancient Greeks grew a lot of their own food. The crops that they grew and ate most were radishes, celery, beans, olives, and different kinds of fruit. They also grew wheat to make bread and cakes. Most farmers didn't only grow crops, but also raised animals that they later killed for food. Donkeys, sheep, and goats were raised most often in ancient Greece. Farming in ancient Greece was difficult due to the limited amount of good soil and cropland.
Food. The Greek diet was very healthy. Food in Ancient Greece consisted of grains, wheat, barley, fruit, vegetables, breads, and cake. The Ancient Greeks grew olives, grapes, figs and wheat and kept goats, for milk and cheese. They ate lots of bread, beans and olives. In the Summer months there were plenty of fresh fruit and vegetables to eat and in the winter they ate dried fruit and food they had stored like apples and lentils. As most of the Greeks lived very near the sea, they also ate a lot of fish, squid and shellfish.
The foods of ancient Greece were similar to foods we eat today, but did not include many that have become important parts of modern Greek cooking. But the ancient Greeks enjoyed a varied diet. Vegetables, legumes, and fruit were the mainstay, and fish was a favorite. Hunting brought game to the menu. To see a detailed article discussing how to eat like an ancient Greek, click here: Eating Like An Ancient Greek.
5) Olive Oil: Greece is the 3rd country in the world of olive oil production (15% of world’s olive oil is produced in Greece). 6) Saffron Crocus: Greece is the 3rd country in the world of production of saffron crocus (mostly in the Kozani area) but most Greeks do not know what saffron is nor do we put it in our foods. 7) Asparagus: Greece is 5th in the world in exports of asparagus