RESULTS: The sphere, cylinder and axis components were transformed into a vector representation (Thibos et al., 1997). The mean spherical equivalent (MSE) difference between telescopic refraction (T) and subjective refraction (S) was +0.03D and the 95% limits of agreement were between -0.64D and +0.71D. For cylindrical vector measurement, J 0 (T-S) was 0.00D and the 95% limits of agreement were -0.30D and +0.29D; J 45 (T-S) was -0.01D and the 95% limits of agreement were -0.18D and +0.17D.
Sublingual immunotherapy (SLIT) is a form of immunotherapy that involves putting drops of allergen extracts under the tongue. Many people refer to this process as “allergy drops,” and it is an alternative treatment for allergy shots. Most studies on SLIT have focused on people with one type of allergy, such as grass or dust mite allergy. People with multiple allergies, such as to molds, pollens, pet dander and dust mite may not be good candidates for SLIT, given the large volume of different allergen extracts that would need to be taken.
Nocturnal geckos like the tokay have a stenopaic pupil: contracts into a vertical slit composed of a linear array of dots. Some nocturnal lizards have slit pupils, others are round. Lizards, unlike other reptiles, have a choroid body, called the conus papillaris. 
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: slit (Noun). A narrow cut or opening; a slot. slit (Noun). The opening of the vagina. slit (Noun). A derogatory name for a woman, usually a sexually loose woman; a prostitute. slit (Verb). To cut a narrow opening. He slit the bag open and the rice began pouring out. 
1 At the end of the glans is a small slit or opening, which is where semen and urine exit the body through the urethra. 2  A wrinkled tee shirt with shredded slits of material barely concealed her. Synonyms. 1  At this stage, they'll also check your garments for slits, broken buttons or zippers, and any other irregularities. 2 
The subjective refraction performed with the stenopaic slit is a procedure especially useful in cases of high astigmatism and poor visual acuity. The stenopaic slit placed in front of the eye isolates an ocular meridian on which to perform the refraction, independently of the other meridians. Second, it is shown that this representation can be used in the analysis of the optical principles of different subjective refraction procedures such as the stenopaic slit refraction, the Barnes astigmatic decomposition method, and the Jackson cross-cylinder (JCC) procedure.
Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of slit): jag (a slit in a garment that exposes material of a different color underneath; used in Renaissance clothing). slot (a small slit (as for inserting a coin or depositing mail)). vent (a slit in a garment (as in the back seam of a jacket)). 
The experiment was conducted by Thomas Young and is known as Young's Double Slit Experiment. This famous experiment is actually a simplification of a series of experiments on light conducted by Young. 
The modern double-slit experiment is a demonstration that light and matter can display characteristics of both classically defined waves and particles; moreover, it displays the fundamentally probabilistic nature of quantum mechanical phenomena. Furthermore, versions of the experiment that include detectors at the slits find that each detected photon passes through one slit (as would a classical particle), and not through both slits (as would a wave).