**Some puppies may need additional vaccinations against parvovirus after 15 weeks of age. Consult with your local veterinarian. ยง According to the American Veterinary Medical Association, dogs at low risk of disease exposure may not need to be boostered yearly for most diseases. Noncore vaccines include leptospirosis, coronavirus, canine parainfluenza and Bordetella bronchiseptica (both are causes of ' kennel cough '), and Borrelia burgdorferi (causes Lyme Disease). Consult with your veterinarian to select the proper vaccines for your dog or puppy.
A puppy can be vaccinated for Parvovirus as early as 5 weeks. A combination vaccine (5-way) should be given at 6 and 9 weeks. At 12 and 15 weeks of age your puppy will need another combination vaccine, possibly a 7-way, as well as a rabies vaccine. Adult dogs will also require a booster shot once a year
Consult with your veterinarian to determine which vaccinations your puppy should receive, and how often. Drs. Foster and Smith prefer to vaccinate puppies with a combination vaccine at six weeks of age initially, with boosters given every three weeks until the puppy is about sixteen weeks of age. We feel that this schedule will help protect the widest range of dogs. Vaccine dose. It is NOT true that a small breed of puppy should receive a smaller vaccine dose than puppies of larger breeds. All puppies regardless of age, body weight, breed, and gender are given the same vaccine dose. Vaccines are generally administered in one milliliter (cc) doses.
Here is a general vaccine protocol for a puppy. Consult a veterinarian to learn what's best for your puppy. 6 to 7 weeks of age: Administer first combination vaccine (Distemper, Hepatitis, Parvovirus, Parainfluenza, Coronavirus). 9 weeks of age: Administer second combination vaccine. 12 weeks of age: Administer the third combination injection and possibly a lyme vaccine inoculation
In the first three months of your puppy's life, your veterinarian will probably want to see your puppy every two or three weeks for vaccinations. Initial vaccinations for many diseases start at about six weeks and are repeated every two to three weeks until your puppy reaches 14 weeks of age. 
The number increased to 60% by 16 weeks of age, and by 18 weeks, 95% of the puppies were protected by the vaccine. Almost all researchers agree that for puppies and kittens, we need to give at least three combination vaccinations and repeat these at one year of age. Drs. Vaccine dose. It is NOT true that a small breed of puppy should receive a smaller vaccine dose than puppies of larger breeds. All puppies regardless of age, body weight, breed, and gender are given the same vaccine dose. Vaccines are generally administered in one milliliter (cc) doses.