A covalent bond forming H 2 (right) where two hydrogen atoms share the two electrons. A covalent bond is a chemical bond that involves the sharing of electron pairs between atoms. A double bond between two given atoms consists of one sigma and one pi bond, and a triple bond is one sigma and two pi bonds. Covalent bonds are also affected by the electronegativity of the connected atoms which determines the chemical polarity of the bond.
A covalent bond is a bond between two non-metals. It can either be covalent molecular or covalent network. It's a bond where the atoms share electrons in their outer shell. Covalent network bonding is where the bonds form a large strong network. 
Answer: A molecule or compound is made when two or more atoms form a chemical bond, linking them together. The two types of bonds are ionic bonds and covalent bonds. In an ionic bond, the atoms are bound together by the attraction between oppositely-charged ions. For example, sodium and chloride form an ionic bond, to make NaCl, or table salt. In a covalent bond, the atoms are bound by shared electrons. If the electron is shared equally between the atoms forming a covalent bond, then the bond is said to be nonpolar. Usually, an electron is more attracted to one atom than to another, forming a polar covalent bond. For example, the atoms in water, H 2 O, are held together by polar
Covalent bonding. Non metals combine together by sharing electrons. The shared pair of electrons holds the two atoms together. It's called a covalent bond. The group of atoms bonded together in this way is called a molecule. The types and numbers of atoms in a molecule are shown in its formula. A covalent bond is formed between non metal atoms, which combine together by sharing electrons. Covalent compounds have no free electrons and no ions so they don't conduct electricity. The Periodic Table is an arrangement of the elements in order of atomic number
So to stabilize the atom, each atom shares half of its electrons. Covalent bonding is a form of chemical bonding between two non metallic atoms which is characterized by the sharing of pairs of electrons between atoms and other covalent bonds. A covalent bond is formed between two non-metals that have similar electronegativities. Neither atom is strong enough to attract electrons from the other. For stabilization, they share their electrons from outer molecular orbit with others. An ionic bond is formed between a metal and a non-metal.
A covalent bond is a bond between two non-metallic elements. This means that they share electrons inside the molecules. OR A type of chemical bond in which there is mutual sharing of electrons between two atoms is called covalent bond. A covalent bond is a bond that forms between two nonmetals in which the atoms share electrons in order for them both to have a perfect octet of valence electrons. It is the st … rongest type of intramolecular bond.
Chemical bond formed between two atoms due to sharing of electron pair in which only one atom provides shared pair of electron for the formation of bond, is known as coordinate covalent bond or dative bond. In the formation of coordinate bond other atom does not provide electron for sharing. A covalent bond is a bond that forms between two nonmetals in which the atoms share electrons in order for them both to have a perfect octet of valence electrons. It is the st … rongest type of intramolecular bond.
A Covalent bond is a form of chemical bonding that is characterized by the sharing of pairs of electrons between atoms, and other covalent bonds. In short, the attraction-to-r … epulsion stability that forms between atoms when they share electrons is known as covalent bonding. A covalent bond is a bond that forms between two nonmetals in which the atoms share electrons in order for them both to have a perfect octet of valence electrons. It is the st … rongest type of intramolecular bond.
A covalent bond is a chemical bond between two nonmetals (two metals cannot covalently bond) in which electrons are shared, while an ionic bond is a chemical bond between a me … tal and a non metal due to the attraction between oppositely charged ions. A covalent bond is a bond that forms between two nonmetals in which the atoms share electrons in order for them both to have a perfect octet of valence electrons. It is the st … rongest type of intramolecular bond.