1 You can derive a more specific body fat percentage estimate using your BMI in the following equation: (1.20 x BMI) + (0.23 x Age) - (10.8 x gender) - 5.4. 2  The gender number for males is 1 and for females is 0.
This Body Fat calculator is based on a formula developed by the US Navy. First, your body fat percentage is simply the percentage of fat your body contains. If you weigh 140 pounds and are 10% fat, it means that your body consists of 14 pounds fat and 126 pounds lean body mass (bone, muscle, organ tissue, blood,...).
Divide your body fat mass by your total weight and multiply by 100 to calculate your body fat percentage. In the example, 29.6 divided by 120 results in 0.247. Multiply by 100 to convert the decimal form to 24.7 percent.
As a result, different body fat percentages will be provided with the same health assessment for both genders. For women between age 20 and 40, 19% to 26% body fat is generally good to excellent. For women age 40+ to 60+, 23% to 30% is considered
Determine your body fat percentage with our body fat calculator. Use a tape measure to determine your waist, hip and neck circumference. Then input your gender and measurements below to receive a body fat index based on average values.
Note: Please keep in mind, this calculates total weight loss including muscle. A better indicator of how you're doing would be to calculate how much body fat you're losing. It's the fat you want to lose, not the muscle! Use the FitWatch Body Fat Percentage Calculator to estim
There are several ways to calculate your body fat percentage, including bioelectrical impedance analysis, skinfold methods and other anthropometric methods, or methods involving the circumference of various body parts. Here's a method to calculate your body fat using only your scale and a calculator.
This tool provides: body fat percentage for women, body fat percentage for men, and recommended ideal body fat precentage based on your activity levels. This body fat calculator is based on the body fat algorithms developed by the U.S. Navy, U.S. Army, U.S. Marine Corp and the YMCA.