Eidolon helvum or the Straw colored fruit bat – This variety of fruit bat is a part of the small family, Pteropodinae and Eidolon genus (straw-colored fruit bats). An extensively spread variety fruit bat in Africa, their exterior is straw colored or yellowish hence their name. Cynopterus brachyotis or the Lesser Short-Nosed Fruit bat – This is of part of the small family Cynopterinae and Cynopterus genus (short-nosed or dog-faced fruit bats). The males are yellowish brown to brown having a collar of dark orange, while the females have yellowish collar.
Bats can be found in colonies; these are called colonial bats. Other bats do not live in colonies, and these are called solitary bats. Most bats found near humans are colonial bats. Little brown bat (Myotis lucifugus). The little brown bat is commonly found in and around buildings where there is an ample supply of insects nearby. The adult bat measures about 3 1/2 inches in length. These bats have been known to live for over 15 years. The wingspan of this bat is about 1 foot, with some variation. The “free tail” part of the name stems from the fact that the tail is not included in the membrane, but is protruding freely.
Coloring of the pallid bat is much paler than most other species of bats, and this bat also has a lighter-colored underbelly. The body length of the adult is 3 1/2 to 5 1/2 inches. The wingspan is 14 to 15 1/2 inches. The adult bat measures about 3 1/2 inches in length. These bats have been known to live for over 15 years. The wingspan of this bat is about 1 foot, with some variation. The “free tail” part of the name stems from the fact that the tail is not included in the membrane, but is protruding freely.
Cynopterus sphinx or the Greater Short-nosed Fruit Bat-This is a part of the small family Cynopterinae and Cynopterus genus (Short-nosed or dog-faced fruit bats) It is otherwise called Indian Fruit Bat of the short nose variety. You can see these bats in southeastern and southern Asia. Cynopterus brachyotis or the Lesser Short-Nosed Fruit bat – This is of part of the small family Cynopterinae and Cynopterus genus (short-nosed or dog-faced fruit bats). The males are yellowish brown to brown having a collar of dark orange, while the females have yellowish collar.
It is also arguably the smallest extant species of mammal, with the Etruscan shrew being the other contender. The largest species of bat are a few species of Pteropus (fruit bats or flying foxes) and the giant golden-crowned flying fox with a weight up to 1.6 kg (4 lb) and wingspan up to 1.7 m (5 ft 7 in). At least two species of bat are known to feed on other bats: the spectral bat, also known as the American false vampire bat, and the ghost bat of Australia. One species, the greater noctule bat, catches and eats small birds in the air. Predators of bats include bat hawks, bat falcons and even spiders
Report Abuse. You would have to pick out a specific species in order to classify the genus and species of a bat. For instance, a big brown bat is genus species Eptesicus fuscus. The order for bats is Chiroptera. That means that it is not in the rodent family because rodents are classified under the order rodentia. Best Answer: There are about 1100 species of bats (order Chiroptera), and they are in no way related to rodents other than both being placental mammals. Rodents are also not a family, but a whole order that includes about 32 families.
1 This table contains a list of Genus/Species that are included in the CEE-TV database to aid in querying the Genus/Species field. Table of Genus/Species. Click here for complete documentation for this database. 1  This table contains a list of Genus/Species that are included in the CEE-TV database to aid in querying the Genus/Species field. 2  Copy and paste the Genus and Species from this page into the search form.
Fruit eating, or frugivory, is a specific habit found in two families of bats. Megachiropterans and microchiropterans both include species of bat that feed on fruits. These bats feed on the juices of sweet fruits, and fulfill the needs of some seeds to be dispersed. At least two species of bat are known to feed on other bats: the spectral bat, also known as the American false vampire bat, and the ghost bat of Australia. One species, the greater noctule bat, catches and eats small birds in the air. Predators of bats include bat hawks, bat falcons and even spiders