The chlorophyll content of algae present in water bodies is used to measure the extent of eutrophication and this value is combined with other parameter like phosphorus and nitrogen as well as the value of light penetration. Also the fertilizers used in the agriculture comes in the water,which is very helpful for the growth of the phytoplankton's .NaturalThis is the process in which the nutrients are added to the water naturally, by rain water or any other resources. Eutrophication can be of two types. 1  Man made.
Drainage water from agricultural land also contains phosphorus and nitrogen. It usually has much more nitrogen because phosphorus is usually bound to soil components. Extensive use of fertilizers results in significant concentrations of nutrients particularly nitrogen, in agricultural runoff. 
Aa Aa Aa. Eutrophication is characterized by excessive plant and algal growth due to the increased availability of one or more limiting growth factors needed for photosynthesis (Schindler 2006), such as sunlight, carbon dioxide, and nutrient fertilizers. Given the widespread extent of water quality degradation associated with nutrient enrichment, eutrophication has and continues to pose a serious threat to potable drinking water sources, fisheries, and recreational water bodies.
Eutrophication arises from the oversupply of nutrients, which induces explosive growth of plants and algae which, when such organisms die, consume the oxygen in the body of water, thereby creating the state of hypoxia. According to Ullmann's Encyclopedia, the primary limiting factor for eutrophication is phosphate.. Cultural eutrophication is a form of water pollution. Cultural eutrophication also occurs when excessive fertilizers run into lakes and rivers. This encourages the growth of algae (algal bloom) and other aquatic plants. Following this, overcrowding occurs and plants compete for sunlight, space and oxygen.
In nature, eutrophication is a common phenomenon in freshwater ecosystems and is really a part of the normal aging process of many lakes and ponds. Some never experience it because of a lack of warmth and light, but many do. Over time, these bodies of freshwater change in terms of how productive or fertile they are. Eventually, there are shrubs growing where a body of water used to be. In the 1960s and 1970s, Lake Erie was the most publicized example of eutrophication. Called a dead lake, the smallest and shallowest of the five Great Lakes was swamped for decades with nutrients from heavily developed agricultural and urban lands.
EUTROPHICATION. Eutrophication. Algae growth is limited by the available supply of phosphorus or nitrogen, so if excessive amounts of these nutrients are added to the water, algae and aquatic plants can grow in large quantities. When these algae die, they are decomposed by bacteria, which use dissolved oxygen. If excessive amounts of phosphorus and nitrogen are added to the water, algae and aquatic plants can be produced in large quantities. When these algae die, bacteria decompose them, and use up oxygen. This process is called eutrophication.
The most common nutrients causing eutrophication are nitrogen and phosphorus. The main source of nitrogen pollutants is run-off from agricultural land, whereas most phosphorus pollution comes from households and industry, including phosphorus-based detergents. Eutrophication is the (mostly undesired) increase in the concentration of nutrients to an ecosystem. Increased nutrient enrichment can arise from both point and non-point sources :
Definition (by USGS). Eutrophication is a process whereby water bodies, such as lakes, estuaries, or slow-moving streams receive excess nutrients that stimulate excessive plant growth (algae, periphyton attached algae, and nuisance plants & weeds). Trophic state. The level of eutrophication of a water body is expressed as a trophic state. The trophic state of a water body is derived from multiple parameters. Besides nutrient concentrations such as phosphorus and nitrogen, other parameters such as chlorophyll-a and secchi-depth are also used.