Top 40 fans may remember Healey for the 1988 soulful hit, Angel Eyes.. Bad-movie fans surely and fondly remember Healey as Road House 's Cody, the blind musician who memorably observed of Swayze's philosophizing, Tai Chi-posing bouncer, James Dalton, I thought you'd be bigger.. 
Healey had numerous acting scenes in the movie with Swayze, as his band was the house cover band for the bar featured in the movie. In 1990, the band won the Juno Award for Canadian Entertainer of the Year. Over the years, Healey toured and sat in with many legendary performers, including The Allman Brothers, Bonnie Raitt, Stevie Ray Vaughan, Buddy Guy, BB King, ZZ Top, Steve Lukather, Eric Clapton and many more. In 2006, Healey appeared on Deep Purple vocalist Ian Gillan 's CD/DVD Gillan's Inn.
I am a 32-year-old totally blind singer/songwriter born and raised in and around the Fargo North Dakota area. I have opened for some great bands and musicians including David Allen Coe, Craig Morgan, the Kentucky headhunters, Brett Michaels of poison, Joe Diffie, John Hiatt, Buddy Guy, James Otto and many more. 
Hello Holly, The blind guy who sang in Roadhouse was Jeff Healey. He is the lead singer and guitarist for the Jeff Healey Band. They had a top 5 pop hit with the song 'Angel Eyes' in 1989. Healey, who has been blind since the age of one, began playing guitar at the age of 3. For more information about Jeff Healey and his band, visit http://www.jeffhealeyband.com/.
Jeff Healey in 2000. He died of lung cancer, his publicists said. Mr. Healey, who was blind, played his guitar with the instrument flat on his lap, resulting in what Guitar Player magazine called “astoundingly fluid bends and vibrato.” He blended jazz, rock and the blues. Correction Appended. Jeff Healey, a Canadian guitarist, singer and songwriter whose band sold millions of blues-rock records and who also pursued a passion for old-time jazz, playing the trumpet and clarinet, died on Sunday in Toronto. He was 41
For the fictional character, see Jeff Healy (EastEnders) . Norman Jeffrey Jeff Healey (March 25, 1966 – March 2, 2008) was a blind Canadian jazz and blues-rock vocalist and guitarist who attained musical and personal popularity, particularly in the 1980s and 1990s. Over the years, Healey toured and sat in with many legendary performers, including The Allman Brothers, Bonnie Raitt, Stevie Ray Vaughan, Buddy Guy, BB King, ZZ Top, Steve Lukather, Eric Clapton and many more. In 2006, Healey appeared on Deep Purple vocalist Ian Gillan 's CD/DVD Gillan's Inn.
** Blind singer from Patrick Swayze's Roadhouse (1989). Buy from Amazon.com: Jeff Healey DVDs & CDs. Norman Jeffrey Healey (March 25, 1966 – March 2, 2008), known professionally as Jeff Healey. He was a blind Canadian jazz and blues-rock guitarist and vocalist. Death of Jeff Healey. Jeff Healey died of cancerat St. Joseph's Health Centre in his home town of Toronto. Jeff Healey had a surgery for Lung Cancer last year (Blog Entry: Jeff Healey Lung Cancer). Patrick Swayze-On March 5, 2008, media announced that the Roadhouse buddy Patrick Swayze is battling cancer.
Blind Musician and Canadian Jeff Healey dies at age 41. EGossip reports: Canadian musician Jeff Healey died in a Toronto hospital on Sunday evening after a lifelong battle with cancer. 