1 diabetes: Excessive thirst can be caused by high blood sugar (hyperglycemia), and is often one of the first noticeable symptoms of diabetes. 2  diabetes insipidus: With this form of diabetes, your kidneys are unable to conserve water, leading to excessive thirst. Causes of Excessive Thirst. It is normal to feel thirsty after eating salty or spicy foods, or after engaging in strenuous exercise or sporting events, especially when it is hot. You may also feel thirsty when you suffer from diarrhea, vomiting, burns, or a significant loss of blood.
Frequent excessive thirst and/or thirst that won’t be quenched can be symptoms of serious medical conditions, such as: 1  dehydration: Dehydration occurs when you lack the proper amount of fluids for your body to function properly. 2  Severe dehydration is life threatening, especially for infants and young children. Causes of Excessive Thirst. It is normal to feel thirsty after eating salty or spicy foods, or after engaging in strenuous exercise or sporting events, especially when it is hot. You may also feel thirsty when you suffer from diarrhea, vomiting, burns, or a significant loss of blood.
It occurs whenever the body is dehydrated for any reason. Any condition that can result in a loss of body water can lead to thirst or excessive thirst. For this reason, thirst is a characteristic symptoms of certain medical conditions, most notably diabetes mellitus. Thirst may be accompanied by other signs of dehydration such as decreased urine output, reduced sweating and tear production, muscle cramps, weakness, lightheadedness, and nausea. Dehydration and thirst may be minor or severe, depending upon the amount of water lost by the body.
1 dipsogenic diabetes insipidus: This condition is due to a defect in the thirst mechanism, causing excessive thirst and excessive urine output. 2  heart, liver, or kidney failure. 3  psychogenic polydipsia: This is a psychiatric disorder that causes people to drink too much. Causes of Excessive Thirst. It is normal to feel thirsty after eating salty or spicy foods, or after engaging in strenuous exercise or sporting events, especially when it is hot. You may also feel thirsty when you suffer from diarrhea, vomiting, burns, or a significant loss of blood.
Thirst is the desire to drink fluids, and it is a normal, everyday feeling. Depending on your activities and diet, you may notice changes in how thirsty you feel during a particular day and on different days. Major changes in your patterns of thirst, however, may be symptoms of a disease or medical condition. It is usually appropriate to drink fluids when you are thirsty and not to drink fluids when you are not thirsty. If you suspect that your thirst patterns are not normal, or if you notice a sudden change in your thirst, it is important to contact a physician to determine the cause of these symptoms.
Excessive thirst, known as polydipsia, along with excessive urination, known as polyuria, may be an indication of diabetes mellitus or diabetes insipidus. There are receptors and other systems in the body that detect a decreased volume or an increased osmolite concentration. Thirst is the craving for fluids, resulting in the basic instinct of animals to drink. It is an essential mechanism involved in fluid balance. It arises from a lack of fluids or an increase in the concentration of certain osmolites, such as salt.
Excessive thirst and increased urination. Excessive thirst and increased urination are classic diabetes symptoms. When you have diabetes, excess sugar (glucose) builds up in your blood. Your kidneys are forced to work overtime to filter and absorb the excess sugar. If your kidneys can't keep up, the excess sugar is excreted into your urine along with fluids drawn from your tissues. 
Polydipsia. Polydipsia is a symptom of both diabetes mellitus and diabetes insipidus. Polydipsia is the term given to excessive thirst and is one of the initial symptoms of diabetes. It is also usually accompanied by temporary or prolonged dryness of the mouth. We all get thirsty at various times during the day.
Excessive thirst may be a symptom of high blood sugar (hyperglycemia). It can be an important clue in detecting diabetes. Excessive thirst is a common symptom. It is often the reaction to fluid loss during exercise or to eating salty foods. 