Pulse oximeters measure how much of the hemoglobin in blood is carrying oxygen (oxygen saturation). If you work in healthcare (or have been patient !) you are very likely to have come across pulse oximeters. You can find them in areas such as operating rooms, recovery, critical care, wards, and ambulances. 
Pulse oximeters are medical devices used to measure the oxygen level (or oxygen saturation) in the blood. Pulse oximeters are considered to be a noninvasive, painless, general indicator of oxygen delivery to the tissues (e.g., finger, earlobe, forehead, toe or nose). Pulse oximetry is a quick, noninvasive method of measuring oxygen saturation in the blood. Risks associated with using a pulse oximeter are minimal and rare. Prolonged application of the probe may cause tissue breakdown at the application site.
A great new medical device that can be used on a daily basis to monitor one’s heart rate is a pulse oximeter. A pulse oximeter, also known as a pulse ox by some medical professionals, is a device used to measure the oxygen saturation level and pulse rate of an individual. A modern pulse oximeter is smaller than a cell phone, and can easily be carried around with no issues. Heart rate, also known as your pulse rate, is a great indicator of your health. Over the past 25 years, the health of Americans has been on the decline. Various health related conditions are on the rise. These illnesses range from heart related to even the respiratory systems.
Arterial blood gases and SpO 2 As previously explained, the pulse oximeter measures the oxygen saturation of haemoglobin in arterial blood. A blood gas analyser may be used to measure the oxygen content in a blood sample (‘arterial blood gases’). The blood gas analyser describes the gas content as a partial pressure. 
Our Oximeter is high quality, accurate and backed with a LIFETIME GUARANTEE! A pulse oximeter is a device that assesses the oxygen saturation levels inside the blood as it circulates through the entire body. Clearly as people need oxygen to survive, your essential bodily organs also require a normal oxygen level to perform successfully. 
A pulse oximeter probe applied to a person's finger. A pulse oximeter is a medical device that indirectly monitors the oxygen saturation of a patient's blood (as opposed to measuring oxygen saturation directly through a blood sample) and changes in blood volume in the skin, producing a photoplethysmogram. Pulse oximetry measures solely hemoglobin saturation, not ventilation and is not a complete measure of respiratory sufficiency. It is not a substitute for blood gases checked in a laboratory, because it gives no indication of base deficit, carbon dioxide levels, blood pH, or bicarbonate (HCO 3 −) concentration.
In 2008, a pulse oximeter that can also measure hemoglobin levels in addition to oxygen saturation was introduced by Masimo. In addition to the standard two wavelengths of light, the devices use multiple additional wavelengths of light to quantify hemoglobin. Pulse oximetry measures solely hemoglobin saturation, not ventilation and is not a complete measure of respiratory sufficiency. It is not a substitute for blood gases checked in a laboratory, because it gives no indication of base deficit, carbon dioxide levels, blood pH, or bicarbonate (HCO 3 −) concentration.
Pulse oximetry is a procedure used to measure the oxygen level (or oxygen saturation) in the blood. It is considered to be a noninvasive, painless, general indicator of oxygen delivery to the peripheral tissues (such as the finger, earlobe, or nose). Pulse oximetry is a quick, noninvasive method of measuring oxygen saturation in the blood. Risks associated with pulse oximetry are minimal and rare. Prolonged application of the probe may cause tissue breakdown at the application site.
The oxygen level from a pulse oximeter is reasonably accurate. Most oximeters give a reading 2% over or 2% under what your saturation would be if obtained by an arterial blood gas. For example, if your oxygen saturation reads 92% on the pulse oximeter, it may be actually anywhere from 90 to 94%. Having a pulse oximeter in these cases will allow you to monitor your blood oxygen level and know when you need to increase your supplemental oxygen flow rate. Ask your health care provider what oxygen saturation number(s) they want you to maintain.
Pulse oximetry is a simple, cheap, and noninvasive procedure used to measure the level of oxygen (or oxygen saturation) in the blood. Oxygen saturation should always be above 95 percent. However, oxygen saturation may be lower if you have a respiratory disease or congenital heart disease. You can measure the blood's percentage of oxygen saturation using a pulse oximeter, a clip-like sensor device that is placed on a thin part of your body, such as an earlobe or nose. 2. Understand the reasons for the procedure. Pulse oximetry is used to assess oxygen saturation in the blood for a variety of reasons. It is often used in surgeries and other procedures that involve sedation (such as a bronchoscopy and to make any adjustments of supplemental oxygen.