Curcumin is the active substance found in the spice turmeric. Typically, turmeric contains about 2-5% of curcumin. Thus 1,000 mg of turmeric has 20 to 60 mg of curcumin. And standardized turmeric root extract contains up to 95% of curcumin. In general, most clinical trials used dosages between 250 mg to 500 mg of standardized turmeric (95% curcumin content) taken up to three times daily. Some studies used up to 2 grams daily. 
After examining the impact of 6gm dose of turmeric on the insulin levels, plasma glucose, and the glycemic index in almost 14 fit people, the study found that the intake of turmeric did not affected the glucose level, but helped in increasing the level of insulin. However, there are doctors who usually prescribe 500 mg of turmeric supplements that are to be taken three times daily. Although this prescription can be a good suggestion to begin, it is not recommended to start following this prescription without consulting your own doctor.
387 million people are estimated to be suffering from diabetes worldwide in 2014 and it is estimated to rise to 592 million by 2035. Type 2 diabetes accounts for 90% of the cases. The global economic burden due to diabetes in 2014 is estimated to be $ 612 billion USD. Turmeric is a proven anti-diabetic agent. Study 2. Diabetic dyslipidemia is a common condition in diabetes that increases the risk of heart disease and stroke. Dyslipidemia refers to abnormal lipid (fats and related compounds) levels in the blood. This is caused due to insulin resistance and improper function of the enzyme lipoprotein lipase.
In addition to preventing and fighting diabetes, turmeric has also been shown to: 1  Rest among the most powerful of cancer-fighting foods. 2  Promote healthy fat loss. 3  Help detoxify the liver and promote liver health. 4  Cut heart disease risk. 5  Be a solution for skin issues such as acne. 
Blood sugar or glucose acts as a fuel for various cellular activities. Insulin moves glucose from blood to muscles, fat and liver cells where it is stored or used as fuel. In diabetes either little insulin or insulin resistance hampers this transformation of glucose and in turn tends to affect the body negatively. Study 2. Diabetic dyslipidemia is a common condition in diabetes that increases the risk of heart disease and stroke. Dyslipidemia refers to abnormal lipid (fats and related compounds) levels in the blood. This is caused due to insulin resistance and improper function of the enzyme lipoprotein lipase.
Overview. Turmeric (Curcuma longa) has been used for 4,000 years to treat a variety of conditions. Studies show that turmeric may help fight infections and some cancers, reduce inflammation, and treat digestive problems. Many studies have taken place in test tubes and animals. Turmeric may not work as well in humans. A relative of ginger, turmeric is a perennial plant that grows 5 to 6 feet high in the tropical regions of Southern Asia, with trumpet-shaped, dull yellow flowers. Its roots are bulbs that also produce rhizomes, which then produce stems and roots for new plants.
Turmeric (Curcuma longa) has been used for 4,000 years to treat a variety of conditions. Studies show that turmeric may help fight infections and some cancers, reduce inflammation, and treat digestive problems. A relative of ginger, turmeric is a perennial plant that grows 5 to 6 feet high in the tropical regions of Southern Asia, with trumpet-shaped, dull yellow flowers. Its roots are bulbs that also produce rhizomes, which then produce stems and roots for new plants.
Various research studies have confirmed the efficacy of turmeric in treating symptoms associated with diabetes. One remarkable property of turmeric that has been exploited for this purpose is its ability to reduce blood sugar. Study 2. Diabetic dyslipidemia is a common condition in diabetes that increases the risk of heart disease and stroke. Dyslipidemia refers to abnormal lipid (fats and related compounds) levels in the blood. This is caused due to insulin resistance and improper function of the enzyme lipoprotein lipase.
Frankly speaking, no study or research has been performed, which recommends a specific dose of turmeric for reducing the high blood sugar levels. However, there are doctors who usually prescribe 500 mg of turmeric supplements that are to be taken three times daily. Although this prescription can be a good suggestion to begin, it is not recommended to start following this prescription without consulting your own doctor.
The recommended dosage for curcumin as an anti-inflammatory is 400 to 600 milligrams three times per day. To achieve a similar amount of curcumin in the form of turmeric would require a dosage of 8,000 to 60,000 milligrams three times a day. Combined with other herbs anywhere from 50 mg to 150 mg is sufficient.”. Dr. Dukes recommendation on “how to take it and how much” is : “I’m all for enjoying turmeric in fabulous food. One of the most palatable approaches to treating arthritis, for example is with curries – as long as you really load on the turmeric.