Originally Posted by HOTROD29335 how long does it take for me to get my tsa letter to take to the dmv to get my hazmat endorsment i took the test wed and passed i know ill pass the background just wondering when i will get the letter they say 4 to 6 weeks but I got mine in less than 2. how long does it take for me to get my tsa letter to take to the dmv to get my hazmat endorsment i took the test wed and passed i know ill pass the background just wondering when i will get the letter. http://fredogtrucking.proboards.com. 07-05-2008, 11:56 AM #3.
Back to the Top. How long will it take to complete the process, start to finish? Current hazardous materials endorsement (HME) holders will be notified 60 to 90 days prior to the expiration of their CDL. HME holders must allow at least 60 days to make application and complete the background records check.
Originally Posted by HOTROD29335. how long does it take for me to get my tsa letter to take to the dmv to get my hazmat endorsment i took the test wed and passed i know ill pass the background just wondering when i will get the letter. http://fredogtrucking.proboards.com. 07-05-2008, 11:56 AM #3.
how long for tsa letter for hazmat. how long does it take for me to get my tsa letter to take to the dmv to get my hazmat endorsment i took the test wed and passed i know ill pass the background just wondering when i will get the letter. He who runs behind truck is exhausted, he who runs in front of truck is tired. how long does it take for me to get my tsa letter to take to the dmv to get my hazmat endorsment i took the test wed and passed i know ill pass the background just wondering when i will get the letter. http://fredogtrucking.proboards.com. 07-05-2008, 11:56 AM #3.
Applying for a Hazardous Materials Background Check. After you get a CDL, apply for a background check from the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) if you'll be obtaining a hazardous materials endorsement. You may do this online or by contacting a TSA agent. They will ask for: 1  Your CDL or CDL permit number. 2  Proof of legal status. 3  Proof of Identity.
TSA estimates that most background record checks will take 30 days or less, however in some instances the process can take up to 60 days and in rare instances longer. 
Hazardous materials endorsement (hazmat). If you’re a commercial driver and want to transfer, add, or renew a hazardous materials endorsement (HME) in Washington state (WA), you’ll need to know the following: 1  The Transportation Security Administration (TSA) HME clearance is valid for 5 years. 1 1. Complete the HME background check through TSA. 2  The TSA HME clearance can take up to 45 days to process, allow enough time so you can add or renew license with HME. 3  Take the HME knowledge test at a CDL/CLP office location.
In addition to the normal requirements for a CDL, you will need a background records check before a hazardous materials endorsement (HME) can be issued. Only commercial drivers transporting hazardous materials are required to undergo a background record check. These requirements do not apply to drivers or applicants for a CDL that do not apply for a hazardous materials endorsement (HME).
1 • The expiration of the HME clearance will determine how long or if we can issue you a license with HME. 2  The Transportation Worker Identification Credential (TWIC) background check will not suffice for the HME background check. • 3  Adding a hazmat endorsement could affect your current license expiration date. 1 1. Complete the HME background check through TSA. 2  The TSA HME clearance can take up to 45 days to process, allow enough time so you can add or renew license with HME. 3  Take the HME knowledge test at a CDL/CLP office location.
Why is a background records check (BRC) now required before getting a hazardous materials endorsement (HME)? The requirement is a result of the U.S. PATRIOT Act (Public Law 107-56, Section 1012), the Safe Explosives Act (Public Law 107-296, Section 1121-1123), ARS § 28-3103(A)(2) and 49 CFR 1572. 