Listen and learn how to pronounce Quinn so you can get the correct pronunciation for this Irish boy name. MEANING: A variant of the name ceann meaning “”intelligent,”” Quinn is the most common surname in County Tyrone in Northern Ireland and is increasingly used as a given name. Meaning of the Irish name Quinn
From an Irish surname which was derived from O ó caoinlean meaning descendant Of. Caoinlean the Name caoinlean means slender In. gaelic 
Meaning of Quinlan. Irish name. In Irish, the name Quinlan means-very strong. Other origins for the name Quinlan include-Irish, Gaelic.The name Quinlan is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). Irish Name Meaning-very strong. Origin-Ireland.
QUINLAN. The Irish name Quinlan is derived from the native Gaelic O'Caoindealbhain Sept who were a branch of the UiNeill. Initially based in County Meath, the Sept migrated to County Tipperary where the majority of descendants can still today be found. Kindelan and Kindlon are variants of this name
Quinlan. Meaning of the Irish name Quinlan. Listen and learn how to pronounce Quinlan so you can get the correct pronunciation for this Irish boy name. MEANING: A surname, now an increasingly popular as a given name. From caoindealbhain meaning “”gently-shaped, athletic.””. GENDER: Boy | Male
Listen and learn how to pronounce Quinlan so you can get the correct pronunciation for this Irish boy name. MEANING: A surname, now an increasingly popular as a given name. From caoindealbhain meaning “”gently-shaped, athletic.””. GENDER: Boy | Male. Meaning of the Irish name Quinn. MEANING: A variant of the name ceann meaning “”intelligent,”” Quinn is the most common surname in County Tyrone in Northern Ireland and is increasingly used
Quinlan /quin-lan/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Quinlan is fit, shapely, strong. Kreatif forms: Quimlan, Quinlannah, Quinnlan. Related boy name: Quinn. Quinlan is an unusual first name for men but a very prominent surname for both adults and children (#3306 out of 150436, Top 2%). (2000 U.S. Census). The only prominent varying form of Quinlan (outside Top 1000) listed in the Top 1000 is Quinn (#363 a year ago) 
Irish Meaning: The name Quinlan is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Quinlan is: Graceful. Gaelic Meaning: The name Quinlan is a Gaelic baby name. In Gaelic the meaning of the name Quinlan is: Shaped as a well. Counsel. SoulUrge Number: 4. Expression Number: 7. People with this name have a deep inner desire for order and physical creativity, and want to be involved in conventional, safe activities.