Raclette /rəˈklɛt/ is a semi-firm cow's milk cheese that is usually fashioned into a wheel of about 6 kg (13 lb). It is most commonly used for melting. Raclette was mentioned in medieval writings, in texts from Swiss-German convents dating from as far as 1291, as a particularly nutritious meal consumed by peasants in mountainous Switzerland and France (Savoy region).
Raclette cheese is a Swiss semi-firm cows-milk cheese which is most famously used to make a Franco-Swiss dish which also goes by the name “raclette.” Although this cheese originated in Switzerland, it is also made in France, and some American dairies produce their own version of raclette cheese as well. 
Another variety is a Raclette Grill, which allows melting individual portions of cheese and offers a grill top to serve grilled vegetables, meat, chicken, or fish with the cheese. Many of these models come with a reversible grill top that can be used to make crepes or pancakes. Raclette has more than one definition. Raclette is a Swiss cheese dish, a cultural land mark, the name of a cheese, a table top appliance, a dining experience, a great time! Raclette is very popular in Europe, especially in the Swiss Alps and other ski regions. And that’s where it’s said Raclette came from
Switzerland Cheese. Raclette Suisse Cheese: Raclette is a cheese from Switzerland made with whole cow's milk. It has a thin, brownish-orange rind and a firm, supple body that is ivory to light yellow with few, if any, holes. It is classified as semi-hard. Raclette has a very distinctive flavor; nutty, slightly acidic, aromatic and similar to Gruyere-type cheeses
Fromage a Raclette. Raclette is a semi-hard cheese made on both sides of the French and Swiss Alps. Valais Raclette or Fromage a Raclette, as they are traditionally called, are made using ancestral methods with unpasteurised milk of cows grazing on the alpine meadows. While Switzerland supplies 80% of Raclettes, French Raclettes are slightly softer with a smooth and creamy flavour. Raclette is also the name of a Swiss dish where the cheese is melted in front of a fire or a special machine and the melted parts are scraped onto diner’s plates. It is then served with small potatoes, gherkins, pickled onions and air dried meat called Viande des Grison
Pin it. Raclette is a firm, pungent cheese from Switzerland that is the center of a popular winter social event in the Alpine parts of Europe. The cheese is made of cow's milk and is salty, and can come in variations made with wine, pepper, and herbs. The word raclette comes from the French word to scrape.. Raclette makes up a simple meal that was enjoyed by shepherds in the fields.
How Raclette is Made: Raclette is a cheese from Switzerland which is made in several districts (Kanton) north of the Alps. It is made from pasteurized cows' milk except in Valais canton or Wallis canton, where it is made with raw milk. Raclette Suisse Cheese: Raclette is a cheese from Switzerland made with whole cow's milk. It has a thin, brownish-orange rind and a firm, supple body that is ivory to light yellow with few, if any, holes.
We offer imported Raclette Cheese and domestic produced cheese. Both are excellent choices for your next raclette dinner. The imported swiss cheese from Emmi comes in round or square 'wheels' and can be ordered as a full, 1/2 or 1/4 piece. The domestic raclette comes in blocks, great to be used for the grill and the 1/4 and 1/2 cheese wheel can be used with our melter.