Power, you see, is quite expensive in Europe. So what you need to run that laptop, hair dryer, electric shaver, or miniature toaster oven is a doohickey that converts your plug so that it fits whatever socket they use in the European country you're visiting. No problem. They're cheap. Here is all you need to convert the US rectangular pronged plug to a European round plug used in most continental European hotels. It is the kind I take to Europe. This adapter probably won't work in the UK or Malta. While you can buy these in Europe, an online source is Magellans, a reliable converter I'd recommend.
Popularly known as the Europlug, the Type C electrical plug is a two-pin unearthed plug used throughout continental Europe, parts of the Middle East, and much of Africa, South America, central Asia, and the former Soviet republics. The type C electrical plug is found in the countries listed here. Consult the table to see if you'll need a type C travel adapter plug. Find other information on the type C electric plug in the comments section. Purchase international call forwarding with instant call records.
Type C Electrical Outlet. The type C electrical outlet is used in the countries listed here. The type C electrical plug is also pictured and described. Type C electrical outlets accept the types of plugs listed in the information section. If you have another kind of plug, a type C adapter plug may be necessary. The type C electrical plug is found in the countries listed here. Consult the table to see if you'll need a type C travel adapter plug. Find other information on the type C electric plug in the comments section. Purchase international call forwarding with instant call records.
AC power plugs and sockets are devices that allow electrically operated equipment to be connected to the primary alternating current (AC) power supply in a building. Electrical plugs and sockets differ in voltage and current rating, shape, size and type of connectors. The plugs and sockets used in each country are set by national standards, some of which are listed in the IEC technical report TR 60083, Plugs and socket-outlets for domestic and similar general use standardized in member countries of IEC.
BS 1363 13 A plugs, socket-outlets, adaptors and connection units is the main plug and socket type used in the United Kingdom. According to the IEC it is also used in over 50 countries worldwide, many of which have national standards based on BS 1363, including: Ireland, Malaysia, Malta, Singapore, and Saudi Arabia. The plugs and sockets used in each country are set by national standards, some of which are listed in the IEC technical report TR 60083, Plugs and socket-outlets for domestic and similar general use standardized in member countries of IEC.
Google+86. There are currently 15 types of electrical outlet plugs in use today, each of which has been assigned a letter by the US Department of Commerce International Trade Administration (ITA), starting with A and moving through the alphabet. 
European power, power converters, plugs and more-What you need to know about plugging in when you travel Europe. On your first trip to Europe the thing that stands out about your hotel room might very well be the wall sockets. They're different. Here is all you need to convert the US rectangular pronged plug to a European round plug used in most continental European hotels. It is the kind I take to Europe. This adapter probably won't work in the UK or Malta. While you can buy these in Europe, an online source is Magellans, a reliable converter I'd recommend.
Otherwise this cable is the same. This is used in Belgium, France, Poland, Slovakia, Tunisia, Morocco and the Czech Republic Type F Used in Germany, Austria, Holland, Sweden, Norway, Finland, Portugal, Spain and Eastern Europe This is 2 pin plug with rounded terminals. Type J Switzerland Only This is a 3 pin plug used only in switzerlnd and Liechtenstein. Type K Denmark and Greenland This is a 3 pin plug. A Type C plug can fit into a Type K socket all OK. Type L Italy This is a 3 pin Plug with the connectors all in a straight line.
Plug Type C. Used in: Europe, with the exception of the UK, Ireland, Cyprus and Malta (see complete list of countries on the right). The Type C electrical plug (or Europlug) is a two-wire plug that has two round pins. It fits into any socket that accepts 4.0 – 4.8 mm round contacts on 19 mm centres. They are being replaced by E, F, J, K or N sockets which work perfectly with Type C plugs. 