You may either type your answers to the questions or use pen and paper. CHARACTERS ! Nick Carraway: Narrator of the novel. A young man from the Midwest (Minnesota) who moves to New York to work in the bond business after having been educated at Yale and having served in World War I. He is tolerant, open-minded, and a good listener. 
Confidence votes 315. Nick returns west after Gatsby's death because he is disillusioned about the people that surround him (After Gatsby's death the East was haunted for me like that, distorted my eyes' power beyond correction). He sees that Tom and Daisy destroy the people who become attached to them, and that Jordan Baker is no better. 
Nick initially planned to live in New York City close to work, but when a young man at the office suggested that (they) take a house together in a commuting town, it sounded like a great idea.. In this way, he ends up living next to Gatsby in West Egg. A big cause of his feeling a need for a change was the fact that he had just returned from fighting in World War I. As he explains: I graduated from New Haven in 1915, just a quarter of a century after my father, and a little later I participated in that delayed Teutonic migration known as the Great War.
Brought to you inassociation with: Character List Nick Carraway The novel’s narrator, Nick is a young man from Minnesota who, after being educated at Yale and ﬁghting in World War I, goes to New York City to learn the bond business. Nick and Gatsby fought in the same battle in World War ID. Gatsby has seen his next-door neighbor around, but assumed Nick was one of his own servants Suggestion for Further Reading Bloom, Harold, ed. F. Scott Fitgerald’s The Great Gatsby. New York: Chelsea House Publishers, 2003.Bruccoli, Andrew J., ed.
Nick Carraway is the narrarator of The Great Gatsby. He is Daisy's second cousin and she knew Daisy's husband, Tom, in college. He also befriends Gatsby. Nick was taught very … early on not to judge people and throughout the story he mostly succeeds, although he does seem to be on the fence a lot. 
Everybody I knew was in the bond business, so I supposed it could support one more single man. As Nick explains in chapter one, he moved East in order to start a new job and to experience a new llifestyle. He had grown up in the Midwest, and he felt ready for a change. A big cause of his feeling a need for a change was the fact that he had just returned from fighting in World War I. As he explains: I graduated from New Haven in 1915, just a quarter of a century after my father, and a little later I participated in that delayed Teutonic migration known as the Great War.
To me, there are two reasons why Nick comes East after the war. In practical terms, he is coming to New York because he has decided to sell bonds for a living and New York is the center of American financial markets. In more psychological terms, Nick has been changed by his experiences in the war. He feels as if the Midwest is sort of like the middle of nowhere now that he has seen more of the world. So he comes East because it seems more like someplace important and exciting
So Nick had to move out east so that he could (and we by proxy could) meet Gatsby and tell the story. It isn't all that different from our impression of the Midwest today. It is a place where things are bound by tradition, values, things move more slowly, etc. In practical terms, he is coming to New York because he has decided to sell bonds for a living and New York is the center of American financial markets. In more psychological terms, Nick has been changed by his experiences in the war.
Nick has returned from serving in WWI and like many verterans feels the world has changed. Instead of being the warm centre of the world, the Middle West now seemed like the ragged edge of the universe-so I decided to go East and learn the bond business.. 
Nick Carraway was born in 1892 in Minnesota, Middle-West of the United States, as the son of a well situated family. His grand uncle had started the family’s hardware business in 1851. He went to elementary, middle and high school in the Middle-West. After that he was sent to Yale University by his family. Nick was sent to France, when the United States entered the Great War in 1917, in order to fulfil his military service. After this time, in 1922, he decided to move to New York to learn the bond business, because the war had changed his perspective of the world.