3. African sleeping sickness is a disease caused by the protozoa, which are carried by the tsetse fly and are transmitted to humans through tsetse fly bites. This disease is fairly damaging to the human body and can cause serious illness. Symptoms include mucusy stools, diarrhea, nausea, abdominal pain and upset stomach. African sleeping sickness is a disease caused by the protozoa, which are carried by the tsetse fly and are transmitted to humans through tsetse fly bites. This disease is fairly damaging to the human body and can cause serious illness.
Protozoan Diseases in Humans. Some of the important protozoan diseases are: 1  Malaria: it is mosquito-borne tropical disease caused by the plasmodium species of protozoa. 2  The various types of species are P. vivax, P. falciparum, P. ovale, P.malariae. Protozoa are single cell, living microorganism. They have structures like flagella and cilia which help them in their movements. Almost all the humans, some time in their life time must have got infected with protozoa. Some of the disease caused by protozoa can be mild to life threatening.
Trypanosomiasis This is a protozoan disease of animals and humans caused by parasites of the genus Trypanosoma, which are found in blood plasma, various body tissues and fluids. • Theileriosis (East cost fever) • East coast fever is a sub acute haemoprotozoan disease of cattle caused by Theileria parva. Theileriosis is characterized by fever, enlarged lymph nodes, dyspnea and death. In chronic cases loss of condition, emaciation, diarrhea, blindness, etc. can be seen.
Infectious diseases are caused by small microbes invisible to the eye. The microbes include bacteria, protozoans, fungi, yeast and virus. Of them bacteria and protozoans are the most common disease causing agents. Bacteria cause disease both in plants and animals. While protozoans cause disease only in animals and humans. They are widely rampant and very frequent in causing disease among the public. Some of them infect seasonally especially during rainy season, winters etc
A parasite is an organism that lives on or in a host organism and gets its food from or at the expense of its host. There are three main classes of parasites that can cause disease in humans: protozoa, helminths, and ectoparasites. Protozoa that live in the blood or tissue of humans are transmitted to other humans by an arthropod vector (for example, through the bite of a mosquito or sand fly). Entamoeba histolytica is a protozoan. A microscope is necessary to view this parasite. Credit CDC.
1 Malaria: it is mosquito-borne tropical disease caused by the plasmodium species of protozoa. 2  The various types of species are P. vivax, P. falciparum, P. ovale, P.malariae. 3  The organism enters the body in the form of sporozoites injected by female anopheles mosquito during a blood meal. Protozoa are single cell, living microorganism. They have structures like flagella and cilia which help them in their movements. Almost all the humans, some time in their life time must have got infected with protozoa. Some of the disease caused by protozoa can be mild to life threatening.
African Sleeping Sickness. African sleeping sickness is a disease caused by the protozoa, which are carried by the tsetse fly and are transmitted to humans through tsetse fly bites. This disease is fairly damaging to the human body and can cause serious illness. Symptoms include mucusy stools, diarrhea, nausea, abdominal pain and upset stomach. African sleeping sickness is a disease caused by the protozoa, which are carried by the tsetse fly and are transmitted to humans through tsetse fly bites. This disease is fairly damaging to the human body and can cause serious illness.
Protozoan infections are parasitic diseases caused by organisms formerly classified in the Kingdom Protozoa. They include organisms classified in Amoebozoa, Excavata, and Chromalveolata. Examples include Entamoeba histolytica, Plasmodium (some of which cause malaria), and Giardia lamblia. 
Diseases caused by protozoa. Dr.Kedar Karki M.V.St.Preventive Veterinary Medicine Philippines. Trypanosomiasis. • This is a protozoan disease of animals and humans caused by parasites of the genus Trypanosoma, which are found in blood plasma, various body tissues and fluids. Transmission: • Trypanosoma are transmitted primarily by the Glossina spp., tsetse fly, Stomoxys, tabanid and reduviid bugs, and by venereal contact. • Theileriosis (East cost fever) • East coast fever is a sub acute haemoprotozoan disease of cattle caused by Theileria parva. Theileriosis is characterized by fever, enlarged lymph nodes, dyspnea and death. In chronic cases loss of condition, emaciation, diarrhea, blindness, etc. can be seen.