Areli is used as both a boys and girls name. It consists of 5 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced A-re-li. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 1224 in baby name popularity for girls with 198 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Areli Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Areli has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Areli to other names. The name Arely is a form of Are
It may also denote an adjective, so that whatever אראל means, אראלי is the adjective that goes with it. And an adjective in Hebrew may also be a ethnonym (that's a word that tells where someone belongs or came from). In fact, the ethnonym Arelite is spelled and pronounced exactly the same as the name Areli. The name Areli is assigned to only one man: a son (probably the youngest) of Gad, the seventh son of Jacob and first of Zilpah (Genesis 46:16). Areli is also the progenitor of the אראלי, the Arelites, who are mentioned only once, in Numbers 26:17.
Means lion of God, hero in Hebrew. This was the name of a son of Gad in the Old Testament. 
Biblical Meaning: The name Areli is a Biblical baby name. In Biblical the meaning of the name Areli is: The light or vision of God. SoulUrge Number: 6. Expression Number: 9. People with this name have a deep inner desire for a stable, loving family or community, and a need to work with others and to be appreciated.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Arely. Arely is a slightly altered respelling of the Hebrew masculine name Areli which means “lion of God” in Hebrew. The name shows up briefly in Genesis 46:16 as the youngest of the seven sons of Gad. 
Areli is an uncommonly occurring first name for women. Areli is an equivalently unusual surname too for both adults and children. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Areli for girls. Areli was first listed in 2001 and reached its peak rank of #843 in the U.S. in the year 2003, but is not listed currently.
[ 3 syll. a-re-li, ar-eli ] The baby girl name Areli is also used as a boy name, though the use for girls is far more popular. It is pronounced in English as ey-R IY-Lay †. Areli's language of origin is Hebrew and Latin. It is predominantly used in Spanish. Areli is a form of the English and Hebrew Arella. Areli is also a diminutive of the English, German, Italian, Polish, and Romanian Aurelia in the Spanish language. Areli is an unusual baby girl name
Areli /are-li/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name. Areli's root is Latin, and the meaning of Areli is golden. Areli is an alternate spelling of Aurelia (Latin): feminine of Aurelio. Areola is a familiar surname. (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the baby name popularity of Areli for girls. Areli was first listed in 2001 and reached its peak rank of #843 in the U.S. in the year 2003, but is not listed currently.
Here are pictures of people with the name Areli. Help us put a face to the name by uploading your pictures to BabyNames.com! 
Meaning of Areli. Israeli name. In Israeli, the name Areli means-the light or vision of god.The name Areli originated as an Israeli name. The name Areli is most often used as a boy name or male name. Israeli Name Meaning-the light or vision of god