Gellan gum is a water-soluble anionic polysaccharide produced by the bacterium Sphingomonas elodea (formerly Pseudomonas elodea). The gellan-producing bacterium was discovered and isolated by the former Kelco Division of Merck & Company, Inc. in 1978 from the lily plant tissue from a natural pond in Pennsylvania, USA. Gellan gum has subsequently been approved for food, non-food, cosmetic and pharmaceutical uses by many other countries such as US, Canada, China, Korea and the European Union etc. It is widely used as a thickener, emulsifier, and stabilizer.
If you want to get a bit more scientific, Gellan is a water-soluble polysaccharide made by fermenting the microbe Sphingomonas elodea. The result is an off-white powder that some companies use in place of agar agar as a vegan/vegetarian gelling agent for things like gummy candies. Speaking of gummy candies! 
(21) Gellan gum acted as a bulking agent similar to xanthan gum, but no adverse effects were reported. However, a rat study with gellan gum supplemented at 5% of the diet for 4 weeks resulted in abnormalities in intestinal microvilli, which is concerning. Locust bean gum, also known as carob bean gum, is derived from the seeds of the carob tree. During a two-year animal study, rats were given locust bean gum as 5% of their diet, and no carcinogenic or other toxic effects were observed.
Function. A gelling agent produced through fermentation of an algae, gellan gum is used in molecular gastronomy to make all sorts of firm-jellied pieces with distinctive shapes. In pharmaceuticals, for example, gellan gum is used to make tablets that are easy to swallow, as well as to adjust the rate of release of their medicinal compounds in the body. It is also used in biotechnology, as replacement for agar-agar, as a growth environment of bacteria.
Gellan gum is a viscous soluble fiber, artificially produced by non-pathogenic bacteria Sphingomonas elodea from lactose (cheese whey) or glucose (corn starch) [1] . 
« Back to additives. A gelling agent produced through fermentation of an algae, gellan gum is used in molecular gastronomy to make all sorts of firm-jellied pieces with distinctive shapes. In pharmaceuticals, for example, gellan gum is used to make tablets that are easy to swallow, as well as to adjust the rate of release of their medicinal compounds in the body. It is also used in biotechnology, as replacement for agar-agar, as a growth environment of bacteria.
Gellan gum, also branded by few suppliers as GELRITE, Nanogel-TC ,Gelrich Grovgel, AppliedGel or Phytagel, is initially used as a gelling agent, alternative to agar, in microbiological culture. It is able to withstand 120°C heat. Gellan gum has subsequently been approved for food, non-food, cosmetic and pharmaceutical uses by many other countries such as US, Canada, China, Korea and the European Union etc. It is widely used as a thickener, emulsifier, and stabilizer.
Loading ... Gellan Gum is a gelling agent developed specifically for applications where other gelling agents like agar agar and gelatin are not ideal. There are two types of Gellan Gum: gels made with Low-Acyl Gellan Gum tend to be brittle and firm, while gels made with High-Acyl Gellan Gum are flexible and elastic. The two types also vary slightly in other ways, and there is some additional variability in technical characteristics across various brands
Gellan Gum. A gelling agent produced through fermentation of an algae, gellan gum is used in molecular gastronomy to make all sorts of firm-jellied pieces with distinctive shapes. In pharmaceuticals, for example, gellan gum is used to make tablets that are easy to swallow, as well as to adjust the rate of release of their medicinal compounds in the body. It is also used in biotechnology, as replacement for agar-agar, as a growth environment of bacteria.