The blood amylase test is used to help diagnose and monitor acute pancreatitis. It is often ordered along with a lipase test. It may also be used to diagnose and monitor chronic pancreatitis and other disorders that may involve the pancreas. A urine amylase test may also be ordered. 
amylase. an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of starch into simpler compounds. The α-amylases occur in animals and include pancreatic and salivary amylase; the β-amylases occur in higher plants. Measurement of serum α-amylase activity is an important diagnostic test for acute and chronic pancreatitis. An enzyme synthesised in the pancreas and salivary glands and secreted in the GI tract which digests starch and glycogen. It is measured in patients with suspected pancreatitis: serum and urine levels peak 4–8 hours after onset of acute pancreatitis, and normalise within 48–72 hours.
Beta-amylase, found in grains, vegetables, malt, and bacteria, is involved in the hydrolysis of starch to maltose. Normal blood findings are 56 to 190 IU/L. An enzyme synthesised in the pancreas and salivary glands and secreted in the GI tract which digests starch and glycogen. an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of starch into simpler compounds. The α-amylases occur in animals and include pancreatic and salivary amylase; the β-amylases occur in higher plants. Measurement of serum α-amylase activity is an important diagnostic test for acute and chronic pancreatitis.
Amylase is found in saliva and breaks starch into maltose and dextrin. This form of amylase is also called ptyalin /ˈtaɪəlɪn/ It will break large, insoluble starch molecules into soluble starches (amylodextrin, erythrodextrin, and achrodextrin) producing successively smaller starches and ultimately maltose. 
An amylase (/ˈaemɨleɪs/) ˈæmɨleɪs is an enzyme that catalyses the hydrolysis of starch into. Sugars amylase is present in the saliva of humans and some other, mammals where it begins the chemical process of. digestion The pancreas and salivary gland make amylase (alpha amylase) to hydrolyse dietary starch into disaccharides and trisaccharides which are converted by other enzymes to glucose to supply the body with energy. Plants and some bacteria also produce amylase.
Amylase and lipase are key digestive enzymes. Amylase helps your body break down starch. Lipase helps your body digest fats. The pancreas, a glandular organ that sits behind the stomach, produces both of these enzymes. Sugars and fatty acids can then be absorbed by the small intestine. Some amylase and lipase can also be found in saliva and in the stomach, but most of it is made in the pancreas and released into the small intestine. In a healthy individual, a normal blood amylase level is 23-85 units per liter, (U/L).
Alpha-amylase, found in saliva, pancreatic juice, malt, certain bacteria, and molds, catalyzes the hydrolysis of starches to dextrins, maltose, and maltotriose. Beta-amylase, found in grains, vegetables, malt, and bacteria, is involved in the hydrolysis of starch to maltose. An enzyme synthesised in the pancreas and salivary glands and secreted in the GI tract which digests starch and glycogen. It is measured in patients with suspected pancreatitis: serum and urine levels peak 4–8 hours after onset of acute pancreatitis, and normalise within 48–72 hours.
Amylase. Guide. An amylase test measures the amount of this enzyme in a sample of blood taken from a vein or in a sample of urine. Normally, only low levels of amylase are found in the blood or urine. But if the pancreas or salivary glands become damaged or blocked, more amylase is usually released into the blood and urin
Amylase is present in the saliva of humans and some other mammals, where it begins the chemical process of digestion. Foods that contain large amounts of starch but little sugar, such as rice and potatoes, may acquire a slightly sweet taste as they are chewed because amylase degrades some of their starch into sugar. The pancreas and salivary gland make amylase (alpha amylase) to hydrolyse dietary starch into disaccharides and trisaccharides which are converted by other enzymes to glucose to supply the body with energy. Plants and some bacteria also produce amylase.