Red eye is the result of changes in the blood vessels in your eye that make your eye look red or bloodshot; it may occur in one or both eyes. Red eye is usually caused by irritation, infection or trauma. Even everyday causes, such as coughing, sneezing, crying, and lack of sleep, can lead to redness in your eye. Red eye is often accompanied by other eye symptoms, including burning, itching, soreness, tearing and discharge. 
If your eyes are red and puffy due to a food, it may be one of the eight most common food allergens: peanuts, tree nuts, fish, shellfish, milk, soy, eggs and wheat. According to Food Allergy Research and Education, these eight foods make up 90 percent of all food allergies. There are a number of reasons why your eyes may be puffy and red. But if you suspect the problem is food-related, it may be an allergy, which means any food may be the cause of the eye problem. Consult your doctor to help you identify the specific cause of your puffy, red eyes and how best to treat it.
Red eyes occur when the blood vessels on the surface of the eye expand. The appearance of red eye ranges in severity from a bright red that completely covers the sclera to a few enlarged blood vessels that look like wiggly red or pink lines across the white of the eye. On this page: Causes of red eyes • Red eye treatment • Tips for preventing red eyes. See also: Broken blood vessel in the eye • All about eye allergies • Answers to reader questions about dry eyes • Relief for dry, irritated eyes. We've all experienced red, bloodshot eyes from time to time, affecting one or both eyes. Red eye is caused by swollen or dilated blood vessels on the sclera, the white outer surface of the eye. Red eyes can be accompanied by eye pain, itching, eye discharge, swollen eyes or visual disturbances such as blurry vision. In other cases, a red eye may cause no irritation at all
78 Followers. A. Eyes look red or bloodshot when the tiny blood vessels on the surface of the eye (the conjunctiva) expand and become swollen with blood. Most often, this is due to simple irritation of the eye, from allergies, dust, or dryness. Red or bloodshot eyes are also symptoms of many different conditions that affect the eye. 
Bloodshot eyes are a term commonly used to describe red eyes. They are caused when the small blood vessels on the surface of the eye (sclera) become enlarged and congested with blood. This occurs as a result of insufficient oxygen supply to the cornea or the tissues covering the eyes. 
Frequent Use of Eye Drops: Some people often use certain kinds of eye drops to decrease redness. Constant use of this type of eye drops can cause dilation of the eyes’ blood vessels. When the effect of the eye drops wear off, blood vessels sometimes dilate larger, causing the eyes to appear even more bloodshot. Bloodshot eyes are often referred to as red eyes, the name due to redness in the white part of the eyeball (the cornea) or sometimes the red tint that appears around the eyes from repeated touching and rubbing. Bloodshot eye takes place when blood vessels near the surface of the eye become enlarged and dilated.
Hydration. Dry eye also causes bloodshot eyes. Omega-3 may help with inflammation from this condition, but you may also need to increase your fluid intake. Dehydration occurs when you do not consume enough water or other fluids during the day, and dehydration may cause dry eye symptoms. Photo Credit Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Eye redness gives your eyes a bloodshot look, and this condition may stem from benign causes such as lack of sleep. You may have redness from eye conditions such as dry eye, infections or a broken blood vessel.