Rick Astley: I felt like I was famous for being a paint salesman (Picture: Rex). Rick Astley, 47, sang 1987 hit Never Gonna Give You Up, which had a resurgence in 2007, with the song even being played at a New York Mets game. Someone spent ages cutting Obama clips together so he says the lyrics to Never Gonna Give You Up – that’s a good one – and the Mad Men one is immense. At MIT in Boston, someone climbed on to a gas tank and wrote the first seven notes of the song on the side, 5ft high.
(Ooh give you up). (Ooh) Never gonna give, never gonna give (give you up). (Ooh) Never gonna give, never gonna give (give you up). We've known each other for so long. Your heart's been aching but you're too shy to say it. Inside we both know what's been going on. We know the game and we're gonna play it. We're no strangers to love. You know the rules and so do I. A full commitment's what I'm thinking of. You wouldn't get this from any other guy. I just want to tell you how I'm feeling. Gotta make you understand. [Chorus:]. Never gonna give you up, never gonna let you down.
Music video by Rick Astley performing Never Gonna Give You Up. YouTube view counts pre-VEVO: 2,573,462 (C) 1987 PWL.  1 Never Gonna Give You Up by Rick Astley (Google Play • AmazonMP3 • iTunes). 2  Music. 3  Standard YouTube License.
Rick Astley sings Never Gonna Give You Up live on This Morning-ITV1. Skip to 2:25 if you just want to see him sing. 1  Music. 
Never Gonna Give You Up lyrics © Sony/ATV Music Publishing LLC, Universal Music Publishing Group. 
read more. Never Gonna Give You Up is a pop song originally performed by Rick Astley. It was released as a single from Astley's multi-million selling debut album, Whenever You Need Somebody, which was written and produced by Stock Aitken Waterman. 
Music video [edit]. In the Never Gonna Give You Up music video, directed by Simon West, produced by Andy Picheta and edited by Robert Bannochie, a smiling Astley sings and dances to the song in various outfits and venues in west London, sometimes accompanied by backup dancers. A group of London dance producers, called The Rickrollerz made a house music cover version of Never Gonna Give You Up The song was remixed on the same day and in the same studio where the original recording took place 20 years earlier. In May 2008, the track entered the UK Club Charts at no. 22.
Never Gonna Give You Up  is a song recorded by British singer Rick Astley. It was written and produced by Stock Aitken Waterman. The song was released as the first single from Astley's successful debut album, Whenever You Need Somebody (1987) on 3 August 1987. A group of London dance producers, called The Rickrollerz made a house music cover version of Never Gonna Give You Up The song was remixed on the same day and in the same studio where the original recording took place 20 years earlier. In May 2008, the track entered the UK Club Charts at no. 22.