Looking for information on computer memory? You’ve come to the right place! For more than 35 years, we’ve developed, manufactured, and refined memory technology for the world’s computer manufacturers and everyday users.
When you start with Kingston, choosing memory is easy. With over 25 years of expertise, Kingston has the knowledge and resources you need to choose memory with confidence. Our Memory Search connects you to the industry’s most extensive database and puts more than 2,000 products at your fingertips.
Memory Expansion. One other thing that you might want to consider is how much memory the system can support. Most desktop systems tend to have a total of four to six memory slots on the boards with modules installed in pairs. Smaller form factor systems typically will only have a two or three RAM slots.
Most computer system specifications tend to list the system memory or RAM immediately following the CPU. In this guide, we will take a look at the two primary aspects of RAM to look at in computer specifications: amount and type.
66 Articles in: Information to Help Select the Right Computer For You. View More. Buying guide from the About.com PC Hardware / Reviews Expert that looks at all the various aspects of a laptop computer system to assist in selecting a laptop PC that best matches your needs.
). FIGURE 1: Find out what type of RAM your PC uses, and other information, with Memory Stock's online configurator. Before you buy, ascertain the following: Maximum module size: Find out the maximum size of memory module that your PC supports.
Here are the ins and outs of PC memory. (See  Step-By-Step: Add RAM for a Faster PC  for installation instructions.). Begin by checking your system's user manual to identify the types of RAM your PC's motherboard supports.
This section deals with researching information to properly select the right desktop or notebook computer system to match your needs. This will include selections of the best products, questionnaires and articles to help in the buying decision for personal computers or their components.
You're exactly on target if you want more power and longevity from your system. Dell's tested and validated tier-one memory is easy to buy, easy to install in your Dell PC.Upgrading memory is a cost-effective way to help maximize your system's performance and stay up to speed with all the new technologies on the market.