Currently, the average MELD score for a patient undergoing a liver transplant is 20 nationally. The average MELD score for liver transplant patients in our region varies from 26-33, depending on blood type. The average waiting time for a patient to receive a liver in our region, once a patient is placed on the UNOS waiting list, is 12-36 months. 
Allocation of livers for people on the waiting list is by MELD score. The score is made by three lab tests performed at routine labs, T bilirubin, INR, and creatine. The sicker one’s liver the higher the score. The highest score in a region is offered available livers. The average time to get a liver transplant after being placed on the list in the US is 20 months but actual time is solely dependent on MELD score.
The length of time a person may wait for a liver transplant varies, depending on the availability of a compatible donor. The time may be as short as several months to a year or as long as four years. As of September 2003, there were 17,327 candidates on the national waiting list, waiting for a liver transplant. 
Patients waiting for liver transplantation receive a Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) score that determines their place on the waiting list. The MELD score is calculated from blood tests, which need to be updated at least every three months and more often in sicker patients. 
The waiting time for a liver transplant is different for each person. The time a person spends on the waiting list depends on his or her blood type, body size, stage of liver disease, overall health, and the availability of a matching liver. In the United States, there are more people who need a liver transplant than there are donated livers. There are currently over 16,000 Americans on the waiting list for a liver transplant.
If you become an active liver transplant candidate, your name will be placed on a waiting list. Patients are listed according to blood type, body size, and medical condition (how ill they are). Each patient is given a priority score based on three simple blood tests (creatinine, bilirubin, and INR). A small group of patients who are critically ill from acute liver disease have the highest priority on the waiting list. It's impossible to predict how long a patient will wait for a liver to become available. Your transplant coordinator is always available to discuss where you are on the waiting list
If you become an active liver transplant candidate, your name will be placed on a waiting list. Patients are listed according to blood type, body size, and medical condition (how ill they are). Each patient is given a priority score based on three simple blood tests (creatinine, bilirubin, and INR). 
The average waiting time for a liver transplant is 145 days for adults and 72 days for children. However, your waiting time may be a lot shorter if you are on a high-priority waiting list. In some circumstances, you may be able to shorten your waiting time if a relative, or possibly a friend, has the same blood type as you and is willing to take part in a living donor liver transplant.
A NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital answered. There are approximately 16,000-17,000 people on the waiting list for liver transplants in the United States. The number of deceased donors has been relatively stable with between 6,000 and 7,000 deceased liver donations performed every year in the last five or six years. The highest score in a region is offered available livers. The average time to get a liver transplant after being placed on the list in the US is 20 months but actual time is solely dependent on MELD score.