3 4 1 2 3 2 3 1. OE: Original Equipment: This part is either made by the car manufacture or is made by an automotive part supplier and is branded with the car manufactures logo and/or in the car manufactures box. OEM Original Equipment Manufacture.
The OEM/OES parts are less expensive because they do not go through the car manufactures part system. Every time an OE part goes through a depot, warehouse, dealer, there is a little more money added to the cost of the part.
OE, OEM and OES (Factory) Auto Parts. OEM (original equipment manufactured) and OES (original equipment supplied) many times are one and the same. OE, of course, is a more generic term that refers to the brand that came as original equipment on the car.
It is believed by many that OES (Original Equipment Supplier) parts have to be purchased directly from the dealer. OES parts are made on the same assembly line as the OEM(Original Equipment Manufacturer) except it goes through a couple added steps. Branding of the part or stamping with the manufacturer logo IE: HONDA, and then gets wrapped and labeled in the manufacturers packaging.
These OEM (Original equipment manufacturer) or OES companies make the parts that are branded with the original car makers logos and part numbers. They also may sell them as aftermarket parts and are thus labeled or branded as a generic OES.
We deal directly with many OEM/OES companies and stock the exact same parts as your local dealer-usually at substantially lower prices! It may not always come in a package with the car maker's name but it is, in fact, the very same part, manufactured by the very same company.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. OES is Original equipment supplier. Equivalent to aftermarket parts. Companies that make auto parts that may or may not be a contracted supplier to the original car company.
Further, many parts manufacturers are considered OES when, in fact, the exact same parts came on the car under a different brand name. We continue to strive to offer the direct OE replacement under whichever brand name is available.