Posted on. (Answer #15). Hormones are chemical messengers released by endocrine glands directly in the bloodstream, carrying messages throughout the body to specific organs and tissues telling them to carry on with their functions. Here are some things that hormones do for the body. Remember, though, they are only the messengers that start the cells into action. They go out into the body when told to by a higher power (the gland) and it's the cell that actually does the work.
Hormone synthesis may occur in specific tissues of endocrine glands or in other specialized cells. Hormone synthesis occurs in response to specific biochemical signals induced by a wide range of regulatory systems. A hormone (from Greek ὁρμή, impetus) is any member of a class of signaling molecules produced by glands in multicellular organisms that are transported by the circulatory system to target distant organs to regulate physiology and behaviour.
Hormones: the body’s chemical messengers. The human body secretes and circulates some 50 different hormones. A wide variety of these chemical substances are produced by endocrine cells, most of which are in glands. The hormones then enter the blood system to circulate throughout the body and activate target cells. Closely linked to the pituitary gland, it acts as a coordinator between the nervous and endocrine systems. Generally considered the master endocrine gland, the pituitary secretes 10 different hormones. Some of these substances then act on the other endocrine glands.
Dunn is an associate of the Center for Investigative Reporting. Hormones are chemical messengers that travel throughout the body coordinating complex processes like growth, metabolism, and fertility. They can influence the function of the immune system, and even alter behavior. Before birth, they guide development of the brain and reproductive system. Signaling ends when the circulating hormones are broken down and excreted by the body. Hormone disrupting chemicals, or endocrine disruptors, can act at any point along this hormone signaling pathway. Some are hormone mimics: they bind the receptor and send a false signal-one not commanded by the brain.
Hormones are chemical substances which are directly poured into the blood stream by the endocrine glands and have effects on special target organs. Functions....... 1  Hormones effect body metabolism and growth. 2  Hormones like cortisone maintain balance mineral, salt and water. Here are some things that hormones do for the body. Remember, though, they are only the messengers that start the cells into action. They go out into the body when told to by a higher power (the gland) and it's the cell that actually does the work.
11Chapter 1 Characteristics of chemical messengers Hormones are chemical messengers Hormones are signalling molecules synthesized within the body that regulate andcoordinate physiological and metabolic functions by acting on receptors located on or intarget cells. 
Chemical Messengers 3. Hormones •Long‐range messengers•Secreted into blood by endocrine glands in response to appropriate signal•Exert effect on target cells some distance away from release site 4. 
A chemical messenger is any compound that serves to transmit a message. A chemical messenger may refer to: 1  Hormone, Long range chemical messenger. 2  Neurotransmitter, communicates to adjacent cells. 3  Neuropeptide, a protein sequence which acts as a hormone or neurotransmitter. 
Hormones are chemical messengers secreted into blood or extracellular fluid by one cell that affect the functioning of other cells. Most hormones circulate in blood, coming into contact with essentially all cells. However, a given hormone usually affects only a limited number of cells, which are called target cells. 
Hormones are incredible chemical messengers in our body that affect our brain, heart, bones, muscles, and reproductive organs and are an essential part of the workings of every cell in the human body. Hormones work best when balanced. However, hormones can become imbalanced. 