Perception and action processes are functionally intertwined: perception is a means to action and action is a means to perception. Indeed, the vertebrate brain has evolved for governing motor activity with the basic function to transform sensory patterns into patterns of motor coordination. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Common coding theory is a cognitive psychology theory describing how perceptual representations (e.g. of things we can see and hear) and motor representations (e.g. of hand actions) are linked.
Any of a large group of animals having a backbone, including fish, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals. Vertebrates are bilaterally symmetrical and have an internal skeleton of bone or cartilage, a nervous system along the back that is divided into brain and spinal cord, and not more than two pairs of limbs. 1. (Zoology) any chordate animal of the subphylum Vertebrata, characterized by a bony or cartilaginous skeleton and a well-developed brain: the group contains fishes, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals. adj. 2. (Zoology) of, relating to, or belonging to the subphylum Vertebrata. (ˈvɜr tə brɪt, -ˌbreɪt). adj.
2. belonging or pertaining to the Vertebrata, a subphylum of chordate animals having an internal skeleton of bone or cartilage that includes a braincase and a spinal column, and comprising mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, and fishes. 1. (Zoology) any chordate animal of the subphylum Vertebrata, characterized by a bony or cartilaginous skeleton and a well-developed brain: the group contains fishes, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals. adj. 2. (Zoology) of, relating to, or belonging to the subphylum Vertebrata. (ˈvɜr tə brɪt, -ˌbreɪt). adj.
Animals can be classified into two main groups: vertebrates and invertebrates. The main difference between vertebrates and invertebrates is that invertebrates, like insects and flatworms, do not have a backbone or a spinal column. Examples of vertebrates include humans, birds, and snakes. Vertebrates are divided into two groups: animals without jaws (Agnatha) and animals with jaws (Gnathostomata). While most vertebrates can move and are heterotrophic (i.e., cannot make their own food), some invertebrates may be able to make their own food.
Exception: Because of their delayed cognitive neural development, zebrafish embryos are not considered vertebrate animals until 7 days (168 hours) post-fertilization. 2) Alternatives to the use of vertebrate animals for research must be explored and discussed in the research plan. 
1. having vertebrae; having a segmented backbone. 2. belonging or pertaining to the Vertebrata, a subphylum of chordate animals having an internal skeleton of bone or cartilage that includes a braincase and a spinal column, and comprising mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, and fishes. 3. a vertebrate animal. 1. (Zoology) any chordate animal of the subphylum Vertebrata, characterized by a bony or cartilaginous skeleton and a well-developed brain: the group contains fishes, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals. adj. 2. (Zoology) of, relating to, or belonging to the subphylum Vertebrata. (ˈvɜr tə brɪt, -ˌbreɪt). adj.
Perception (from the Latin perceptio, percipio) is the organization, identification, and interpretation of sensory information in order to represent and understand the environment. All perception involves signals in the nervous system, which in turn result from physical or chemical stimulation of the sense organs. Speech perception is the process by which the sounds of language are heard, interpreted and understood. Research in speech perception seeks to understand how human listeners recognize speech sounds and use this information to understand spoken language.
Perception is not the passive receipt of these signals, but is shaped by learning, memory, expectation, and attention. Perception can be split into two processes Firstly processing sensory input which transforms these low-level information to higher-level information (e.g., extracts shapes for object recognition). Speech perception is the process by which the sounds of language are heard, interpreted and understood. Research in speech perception seeks to understand how human listeners recognize speech sounds and use this information to understand spoken language.
Adj. 1. vertebrate-having a backbone or spinal column; fishes and amphibians and reptiles and birds and mammals are verbetrate animals. zoological science, zoology-the branch of biology that studies animals. invertebrate, spineless-lacking a backbone or spinal column; worms are an example of invertebrate animals. 1. (Zoology) any chordate animal of the subphylum Vertebrata, characterized by a bony or cartilaginous skeleton and a well-developed brain: the group contains fishes, amphibians, reptiles, birds, and mammals. adj. 2. (Zoology) of, relating to, or belonging to the subphylum Vertebrata. (ˈvɜr tə brɪt, -ˌbreɪt). adj.