Amitriptyline belongs to a group of medicines known as tricyclic antidepressants. It has been traditionally prescribed for the treatment of depression, although it is rarely used for this nowadays as other medicines are usually prescribed in preference to it.
Elavil (amitryptiline) is a tricyclic antidepressant used to treat depression and mood disorders. It may also be used to treat other conditions including nerve pain, eating disorder, anxiety, and panic disorder. It is available in generic form.
Overview Elavil is a brand name for Amitriptyline, a tricyclic antidepressant (TCA.) It is a heterocyclic antidepressant-a class of drugs that inhibits the nerve cells' ability to reuptake norepinephrine and serotonin and brings the levels of these neurotransmitters back up to normal. Elavil is very sedating.
Amitriptyline is a tricyclic antidepressant used to treat depression. In multiple sclerosis it is frequently used to treat painful paresthesias in the arms and legs (e.g., burning sensations, pins and needles, stabbing pains) caused by damage to the pain regulating pathways of the brain and spinal cord.
Amitriptyline for the treatment of depression. Amitriptyline is a tricyclic antidepressant drug that has been used for decades in the treatment of depression. The current review includes 39 trials with a total of 3509 participants and confirms its efficacy compared to placebo or no treatment.
A: Elavil (amitriptyline) (http://www.everydayhealth.com/drugs/amitriptyline) belongs to a group of drugs called tricyclic antidepressants. Amitriptyline is used for depression and may be used by other conditions by the doctor. (http://www.everydayhealth.com/depression/understanding.aspx). Common side effects of amitriptyline include dry mouth, loss of appetite, dizziness, drowsiness, and blurred vision.
A: Amitriptyline (Elavil) belongs to a group of drugs called tricyclic antidepressants. Amitriptyline is used for depression and may be used for other conditions as determined by your doctor. Common side effects of amitriptyline include dry mouth, loss of appetite, dizziness, drowsiness and blurred vision.
Amitriptyline is used to treat symptoms of depression. Amitriptyline is in a class of medications called tricyclic antidepressants. It works by increasing the amounts of certain natural substances in the brain that are needed to maintain mental balance.
Amitriptyline is a tricyclic antidepressant that has been used for the treatment of anxiety. For more information on amitriptyline, please visit http://www.everydayhealth.com/drugs/amitriptyline. If you are concerned about your treatment, please consult with your health care provider.