Polar bear habitat. The polar bear's Latin name, Ursus maritimus, means 'sea bear-an apt name for this amazing species which spends much of its life in, around, or on the ocean. Polar bears are found throughout the circumpolar Arctic. They're frequently seen along or near coasts and on islands, but they spend the majority of their lives on the sea ice. Sea ice is vital to polar bears. It provides a platform for them to hunt, live, breed, and in some cases, create maternal dens. 
Polar bears are found across the Arctic. They are most abundant in areas with annual sea ice and productive ringed seal populations. There are five nations with polar bears: U.S. (Alaska), Canada, Russia, Greenland (Kingdom of Denmark), and Norway (Svalbard). Polar bears do not live in Antarctica. 
“Where I live”. Polar bears live at the top of the world. They range across the circumpolar north, crossing the boundaries of five nations: Canada, Russia, the United States (Alaska), Denmark (Greenland) and Norway. More than 60% of all polar bears live primarily in Canada
black bears live in north America and is the most common species of bears. They live in forested areas. They live through out the froests of North America. Brown Bears live in … the froests of North America and now are found in Northern Mexico. 
Of all the bear species, the brown bear is the most common and is found in Western Europe, western North America, and Asia. The American black bear is the inhabitant of North America while polar bears are limited to Arctic and Polar Regions. The polar bears inhabit all throughout the range of Arctic and Polar Regions that can be as far south as Newfoundland Island. Human’s absence in these cooler regions allows the largest carnivore to retain its original habitat. They are known to reside in the north of 88 o in the James Bay in Canada.
The polar bear is found in the Arctic Circle and the nearby islands. They can be found in good numbers in Alaska, Norway, Denmark, Russia and Canada. There are smaller populations in the surrounding regions near the Arctic pole. Polar bears live in the Arctic, not in the Antarctic. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: Isaac McArdle. 139,553 Contributions. A keen student and voracious reader, as well as a High School teacher for many years. Climate change conference attender.
The Polar Bear Habitat. The polar bear habitat encompass the entire circumpolar Arctic region. Polar bears have adapted to be able to live in the water and on land. Unlike other bear species, the polar bear are excellent swimmers, and have been spotted more than 100 miles away from land or ice. The polar bear habitat is that of the entire Arctic region. They can be found the cold and at times unforgiving land. Polar bears can be found swimming in the frigid oceans waters, or adrift on ice. The polar bears main habitat is on offshore pack ice, and along costs and island of the Arctic region. Over 40 per cent of all polar bears living today live in Northern Canada, on pack ice and along the shores of the many island there
Details... © Daniel J. Cox/Natural Exposures. Polar bears live in the circumpolar north in areas where they can hunt their primary prey, ice seals. They are found in Canada (home to roughly 60% of the world's polar bears), the U.S. (Alaska), Greenland, Russia, and Norway (the Svalbard archipelago). The polar bear Range States have identified 19 populations of polar bears living in four different sea ice regions across the Arctic
Most polar bears occur north of the Arctic Circle to the North Pole. There are some populations south of the Arctic Circle in Hudson Bay, Manitoba, Canada. Polar bears live in Alaska, Canada, Russia, Greenland and some northern islands owned by Norway like Svalbard. 