Turmeric Dosage. The most common way to take turmeric is in powdered form as a spice. Turmeric is also available as capsules, tincture and fluid extract. Upto 3-4 gms of turmeric powder per day is known to be safe. For more details on dosage, please check this article. 
What turmeric is. Turmeric is a spice that is often used as a food flavouring in Asian dishes. It belongs to the ginger family. It is also known as Indian saffron, jiang huang, haridra, haldi, as the major ingredient of curry powder 2, and as a bright yellow orange food colouring agent (E100).
TURMERIC Overview Information. Turmeric is a plant. You probably know turmeric as the main spice in curry. It has a warm, bitter taste and is frequently used to flavor or color curry powders, mustards, butters, and cheeses. But the root of turmeric is also used widely to make medicine. Turmeric is used for arthritis, heartburn (dyspepsia), stomach pain, diarrhea, intestinal gas, stomach bloating, loss of appetite, jaundice, liver problems and gallbladder disorders. It is also used for headaches, bronchitis, colds, lung infections, fibromyalgia, leprosy, fever, menstrual problems, and cancer.
TURMERIC FOR JAUNDICE: FRIEND OR ENEMY. Turmeric the wonderful, versatile herb has been used by many different cultures, to treat a myriad of diseases and ailments. Turmeric has been used as an anti-inflammatory agent in the treatment of sprains, cramps, bruises, and muscle pain. The healing properties of turmeric lie in the golden fingerlike stalk, or rhizome, the same part that is used to flavor, color, and preserve food. Turmeric is commonly found in Indian curries, giving the food a golden orange color.
You can prepare a face pack by mixing turmeric powder and sandalwood powder and adding lemon juice to the mixture. Apply it on your face for 10 minutes and rinse off with lukewarm water. For acne scars, apply a mixture of turmeric and plain water on the marks for 15 minutes. 
In Jharkhand jaundice is one of the very common diseases. People here believe that in jaundice one must not take yellow color food, so they use to avoid turmeric in jaundice instead of the fact that turmeric is a traditional remedy for jaundice and other liver ailments. So, keeping this in mind a small survey was carried out in Jharkhand. The healing properties of turmeric lie in the golden fingerlike stalk, or rhizome, the same part that is used to flavor, color, and preserve food. Turmeric is commonly found in Indian curries, giving the food a golden orange color.
Botanical name: Curcuma longa Belonging to the ginger family, turmeric has been used in East India and the Middle East for thousands of years, and is now one of the most highly-prized spices in the world. It's actually unclear whether it was first used for its peppery flavor and the unique kick it lends to foods.
You can prepare a face pack by mixing turmeric powder and sandalwood powder and adding lemon juice to the mixture. Apply it on your face for 10 minutes and rinse off with lukewarm water. For acne scars, apply a mixture of turmeric and plain water on the marks for 15 minutes. 
Ancient medicinal uses for turmeric began when it was noted as an anti-inflammatory agent, and then to treat a wide variety of conditions, such as jaundice, menstrual problems, blood in the urine, hemorrhaging, toothaches, bruises, chest pain, flatulence, and colic. Belonging to the ginger family, turmeric has been used in East India and the Middle East for thousands of years, and is now one of the most highly-prized spices in the world. It's actually unclear whether it was first used for its peppery flavor and the unique kick it lends to foods.
No, overdose of turmeric does not cause jaundice. But if you are suffering of jaundice do not take turmeric with food. It is the best Ayurvedic medicine of may disease. Please be careful to take overdose of turmeric available in the market in poly packs. Raw turmeric is the best thing to be taken with or as food. Best Answer: No it doesn't cause jaundice, but why are you overdosing on turmeric? Tumeric is supposed to be really good for you, but don't OD on it. Jaundice occurs when there is 1) too much bilirubin being produced for the liver to remove from the blood.