Definition of:bytecode. An intermediate language that is executed by a runtime program. Both Java and Visual Basic source programs are compiled into their particular type of bytecode, which is then executed by their respective runtime programs, called virtual machines.. For example, the Java runtime is called the Java Virtual Machine (JVM). Unlike C/C++, which is compiled into machine language for a specific hardware platform, Java programs are compiled into an intermediate bytecode language. The bytecode is then compiled into machine language by a runtime program
Java (bottom) is contrasted with C/C++ (top). Unlike C/C++, which is compiled into machine language for a specific hardware platform, Java programs are compiled into an intermediate bytecode language. The bytecode is then compiled into machine language by a runtime program called the Java Virtual Machine (JVM).
Java bytecode is the instruction set of the Java virtual machine. Each bytecode is composed by one, or in some cases two, bytes that represent the instruction (opcode), along with zero or more bytes for passing parameters. If executing Java bytecode in a Java virtual machine is not desirable, a developer can also compile Java source code or Java bytecode directly to native machine code with tools such as the GNU Compiler for Java. Some processors can execute Java bytecode natively.
An often overlooked aspect of Java is the bytecode that is generated by the javac compiler. Understanding bytecode and what bytecode is likely to be generated by a Java compiler helps the Java programmer in the same way that knowledge of assembler helps the C or C++ programmer. The bytecode is your program. Regardless of a JIT or Hotspot runtime, the bytecode is an important part of the size and execution speed of your code. Consider that the more bytecode you have, the bigger the .class file is and the more code that has to be compiled by a JIT or Hotspot runtime. Understanding bytecode makes you a better programmer. This article gives you an understanding of Java bytecode that will enable you to be a better programmer. Like a C or C++ compiler translates source code into assembler code, Java compilers translate Java source code into bytecode.
Bytecode is computer object code that is processed by a program, usually referred to as a virtual machine, rather than by the real computer machine, the hardware processor. Using a language that comes with a virtual machine for each platform, your source language statements need to be compiled only once and will then run on any platform. The best-known language today that uses the bytecode and virtual machine approach is Java.
Since bytecode instructions are processed by software, they may be arbitrarily complex, but are nonetheless often akin to traditional hardware instructions; virtual stack machines are the most common, but virtual register machines have also been built. Some systems, called dynamic translators, or  just-in-time  (JIT) compilers, translate bytecode into machine language as necessary at runtime: this makes the virtual machine hardware-specific, but doesn't lose the portability of the bytecode itself.
Bytecode is the compiled format for Java programs. Once a Java program has been converted to bytecode, it can be transferred across a network and executed by Java Virtual Machine (JVM). Bytecode files generally have a .class extension. It is not normally necessary for a Java programmer to know byte code, but it can be useful.
Bytecode is the compiled format for Java programs. Once a Java program has been converted to bytecode, it can be transferred across a network and executed by Java Virtual Machine (JVM) . Bytecode files generally have a .class extension. Programming code that, once compiled, is run through a virtual machine instead of the computer s processor. By using this approach, source code can be run on any platform once it has been compiled and run through the virtual machine.
Bytecode may often be either directly executed on a virtual machine (i.e. interpreter), or it may be further compiled into machine code for better performance. Some systems, called dynamic translators, or  just-in-time  (JIT) compilers, translate bytecode into machine language as necessary at runtime: this makes the virtual machine hardware-specific, but doesn't lose the portability of the bytecode itself.