Vendors of personal income tax software impose various limits on the number of returns you can file. However, CRA imposes a hard limit of 20 returns per computer. Why? Seems like an attempt to provide security so tax payers feel safe about filing their taxes online. Replies Michael James February 12, 2013 at 1:21 PM@Paul T: You're right that ther are many ways around the limit of 20.
The CRA has determined that a limit of 20 returns, whether printed or filed using NETFILE, is appropriate and sufficient for a NETFILE software product. Always make sure that you are using the most recent version of the software to prepare your tax return. If you encounter difficulties with the software, first, confirm that you’re using a software package that has been certified for NETFILE by checking our certified software list.
NETFILE is an electronic filing service that taxpayers can use to file their own individual income tax and benefit return with the CRA. To protect the integrity of this service, the CRA has set a limit of 20 returns per computer that can be prepared with NETFILE-certified tax preparation software each tax year. Always make sure that you are using the most recent version of the software to prepare your tax return. If you encounter difficulties with the software, first, confirm that you’re using a software package that has been certified for NETFILE by checking our certified software list.
The CRA limits the number of returns that can be filed to Netfile from one computer or online account to 20 in order to ensure the service is used by individual tax filers only and not tax professionals trying to skirt costs by using cheaper tax-preparation programs meant for individuals. Until March 31, H&R Block is offering the desktop version of its tax software for free for the first return. If you have more than one return to file, it will cost you $9.95 for up to 10 returns and $14.95 for up to 20 returns. The desktop version will only work on Windows-based computers.
E-file Limitation of 5 Returns. The IRS limits anyone who is not a licensed tax preparer to five electronically filed returns. TaxACT Deluxe, by law, supports this e-file limitation. It can however, complete an unlimited number of paper filed returns. If you are a tax preparer and would like to prepare unlimited electronically filed returns, please purchase TaxACT Preparer's 1040 Edition
If a taxpayer does not file a tax return on time, CRA may first send a request, like a reminder, to the taxpayer asking them to file the outstanding return. This first letter is called TX11. If the taxpayer still not file the return, CRA may send a second letter demanding that the return be filed. This second letter is called TX14. After that, a third letter, TX14D, could be issued, normally by registered mail, or could be delivered personally by a non-filer officer.
If an identity thief is smart enough to have more than 20 sets of returns to file, then they probably can work around this hard limit. Seems like an attempt to provide security so tax payers feel safe about filing their taxes online. Replies Michael James February 12, 2013 at 1:21 PM@Paul T: You're right that ther are many ways around the limit of 20.
The seventh entry in CRA’s NETFILE FAQ answers this question. The explanation begins with “The CRA's primary interest is always to protect the taxpayer.” This gave me a chuckle. I can believe that protecting taxpayers is high on their list, but their primary interest is to suck up giant piles of money. OK, moving on. Seems like an attempt to provide security so tax payers feel safe about filing their taxes online. Replies Michael James February 12, 2013 at 1:21 PM@Paul T: You're right that ther are many ways around the limit of 20.
First Letter (TX11). The first CRA letter (called a TX11) is sent out by computer to a taxpayer who is late in filing his personal tax return. A normal penalty of 5%, plus 1% per month up to a maximum 12 months (maximum 17% penalty) of taxes owing is levied. That is, if you owe GST arrears, CRA will be willing to negotiate an arrangement with you, as long as you file and pay your future GST obligations on time. CRA usually allows a maximum of 6 months for a tax debtor to pay his total tax liability. That is, they would like the debt to be paid off in 6 months.