DNA can be thought of as a code, containing all the instructions that tell a cell what to do. It is made up of genes. Humans have around 25,000 genes in total. You inherit half your DNA from your mother and half from your father, so you have two copies of every gene. 
Since DNA varies in where and to what frequency it’s found in the world, Ancestry Composition labels pieces of DNA found with some frequency in various parts within a region as “Nonspecific” to that region. For DNA that is very widespread, Ancestry Composition labels that DNA “Unassigned.” Learn more at 23andme.com. The word genotype can be used in several ways. It can refer to your DNA sequence at a particular place, like the SNP related to your ability to taste bitter foods. It can also refer to your personal collection of genetic variants.
The ICTV classifies RNA viruses as those that belong to Group III, Group IV or Group V of the Baltimore classification system of classifying viruses and does not consider viruses with DNA intermediates in their life cycle as RNA viruses. This nucleic acid is usually single-stranded RNA (ssRNA) but may be double-stranded RNA (dsRNA). Notable human diseases caused by RNA viruses include Ebola hemorrhoragic fever, SARS, influenza, hepatitis C, West Nile fever, polio, and measles.
DNA replication is the process by which a DNA molecule produces two identical copies of itself and takes place in the cell nucleus. The original DNA is used as a template by which it synthesizes new versions of DNA. 23andme.com. The word genotype can be used in several ways. It can refer to your DNA sequence at a particular place, like the SNP related to your ability to taste bitter foods. It can also refer to your personal collection of genetic variants.
Deoxyribonucleic Acid is what we mean when we talk about the term -- DNA. If you want to keep things simple then think of DNA as a Code. It is the Code of our Generic material of our cells. 
RNA [BACK TO TOP]. Meaning: (biochemistry) a long linear polymer of nucleotides found in the nucleus but mainly in the cytoplasm of a cell where it is associated with microsomes; it transmits genetic information from DNA to the cytoplasm and controls certain chemical processes in the cell. Classified under: Nouns denoting substances.
Viruses with RNA as their genetic material but that include DNA intermediates in their replication cycle are called retroviruses, and comprise Group VI of the Baltimore classification. Notable human retroviruses include HIV-1 and HIV-2, the cause of the disease AIDS. This nucleic acid is usually single-stranded RNA (ssRNA) but may be double-stranded RNA (dsRNA). Notable human diseases caused by RNA viruses include Ebola hemorrhoragic fever, SARS, influenza, hepatitis C, West Nile fever, polio, and measles.
DNA. deoxyribonucleic acid: an extremely long, double-stranded nucleic acid molecule arranged as a double helix that is the main constituent of the chromosome and that carries the genes as segments along its strands: found chiefly in the chromatin of cells and in many viruses. [1930–35]. 1. DNA - (biochemistry) a long linear polymer found in the nucleus of a cell and formed from nucleotides and shaped like a double helix; associated with the transmission of genetic information; DNA is the king of molecules. deoxyribonucleic acid, desoxyribonucleic acid.
Deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA is a molecule that contains the instructions an organism needs to develop, live and reproduce. These instructions are found inside every cell, and are passed down from parents to their children. The order of these bases is what determines DNA's instructions, or genetic code. Similar to the way the order of letters in the alphabet can be used to form a word, the order of nitrogen bases in a DNA sequence forms genes, which in the language of the cell, tells cells how to make proteins.
A genetic mutation is a change in the DNA or RNA that can be passed down genetically from one generation to the next. Mutations can be small (as in a change from an A to a C at a particular location in the DNA sequence) or large (as in a deletion of a large stretch of DNA from a chromosome). 23andme.com. The word genotype can be used in several ways. It can refer to your DNA sequence at a particular place, like the SNP related to your ability to taste bitter foods. It can also refer to your personal collection of genetic variants.