1 Latent heat of fusion (Lf): Refers to the heat lost or gained by the air when liquid water changes to ice or vice versa. 2  Lf=333 Joules per gram (J/g) of water or 80 calories per gram (cal/g) of water. 3  Latent heat of sublimation (Ls): Refers to the heat lost or gained by the air when ice changes to vapor
Latent heat is the quantity of heat absorbed or released by a substance undergoing a change of state, such as ice changing to water or water to steam, at constant temperature and pressure.
1 Latent heat of vaporization (Lv): Refers to the heat lost by the air when liquid water changes into vapor. 2  This is also commonly known as the latent heat of evaporation. 3  Lv= -2500 Joules per gram (J/g) of water or -600 calories per gram (cal/g) of water.
Waters latent heat of fusion is 79.7 calories while its latent heat of evaporation is 539.4 calories. What this means is that as the temperature of ice is raised to its melting point the ice absorbs 80 calories per gram before undergoing a phase change.
The heat energy that is taken in or given out by a substance when it changes state is called latent heat. When a substance changes from solid to liquid, the latent heat involved is called the latent heat of fusion. When the substance changes from a liquid to a vapour, latent heat of vaporisation is involved.
1 Latent heat of condensation (Lc): Refers to the heat gained by the air when water vapor changes into a liquid. 2  Lc=2500 Joules per gram (J/g) of water or 600 calories per gram (cal/g) of water. 3  Latent heat of fusion (Lf): Refers to the heat lost or gained by the air when liquid water changes to ice or vice versa.
When the phase change is from solid to liquid we must use the latent heat of fusion, and when the phase change is from liquid to a gas, we must use the latent heat of vaporisation.
Heat of Fusion of Water. Heat of Fusion-the amount of heat required to convert unit mass of a solid into the liquid without a change in temperature. (or released for freezing). For water at its normal freezing point of 0 C, the specific heat of Fusion is 334 J g -1.