Costs. A professional concrete contractor will typically charge $2-$4 per square foot for a simple stain application, including the sealer. A stain application with patterning and sawed lines will typically cost between $4 and $10 per square foot.
1 On average, getting concrete floors can cost anywhere from as little as $2 to as much as $17 per square foot. 2  An economical option, which can just change the tone of the concrete floor, will typically cost less than $6. However, with a pinch of polish and a touch of color, a boring slab of concrete can quickly turn into an eye opener. The cost of concrete floors will depend on the style that you choose for your home, the size of the room and the professional contractor performing the job.
1 ConcreteNetwork.com provided an overview on what most concrete flooring jobs would cost. 2  They noted that the average can be anywhere from $2.50 to as much as $30 per square foot. However, with a pinch of polish and a touch of color, a boring slab of concrete can quickly turn into an eye opener. The cost of concrete floors will depend on the style that you choose for your home, the size of the room and the professional contractor performing the job.
Concrete floors can obviously range in price based on a variety of factors such as level of detail, size of the project, prices for materials and labor in your market, etc. But beyond the variance of cost, it is possible to have unique concrete floors no matter what the size of your budget. It is best to contact a contractor in your area for a realistic price estimate. Basic Cost Range ($2.50 to $5.50 per square foot) What You'll Get: 1  An eye-catching, economical upgrade to plain, gray concrete.
1 Professional application of epoxy flooring over patched and level concrete costs about $3-$12 a square foot, or $750-$3,000 for a one-car garage) and $1,200-$6,000 for a two-car garage. 2  For details, see How Much Does Epoxy Flooring Cost. 1 To evaluate the problem, an inspection and report by structural engineer can cost $300-$800 and a soil report by a geotechnical engineer can cost $500-$2,500. 2  For more details, see How Much Does Foundation Repair Cost.
Economical. The cost of concrete floors is very low, about $2 to $6 per square foot to polish a plain gray slab, giving it a lustrous sheen. The concrete's tonal differences, subtle cracks and aggregates take on a stonelike, natural feel. First, getting concrete overlay finish costs about the same as the cost to put in cork or hardwood floors (note you have to use engineered hardwood floating floor if putting over a concrete slab). I paid $10 sq ft. I got quotes for less, but went with the concrete artists that I thought did the best work.
Video on the cost of concrete floors. Depending on the level of complexity, concrete floors can cost as little as $2 to $6 a square foot or be as expensive as $15 to $30 a square foot. 1 These applications can add another $2 to $3 per square foot to the cost of the floor. 2  Moisture-Vapor Transmission-Some floors have a high level of moisture-vapor transmission that will need to be remedied before most decorative coatings, overlays or sealers can be applied.
1 Size of the Floor-Typically, the larger the floor area, the lower the cost per square foot for installation due to the economies of scale. 2  A small residential floor project, for example, is likely to cost more per square foot than a large 50,000-square-foot commercial floor. 1 These applications can add another $2 to $3 per square foot to the cost of the floor. 2  Moisture-Vapor Transmission-Some floors have a high level of moisture-vapor transmission that will need to be remedied before most decorative coatings, overlays or sealers can be applied.
1 Extensive surface preparation, such as grinding, crack repair, and spall repair, can add as much as $2 per square foot to the overall cost of the floor. 2  If a full resurfacing is needed, expect to tack on another $2 to $3 per square foot (for a $4 to $5 per square foot increase). 1 These applications can add another $2 to $3 per square foot to the cost of the floor. 2  Moisture-Vapor Transmission-Some floors have a high level of moisture-vapor transmission that will need to be remedied before most decorative coatings, overlays or sealers can be applied.