Taraxacum /təˈraeksəkʉm/ təˈræksəkʉm is a large genus of flowering plants in the Family asteraceae and consists of species commonly known as. dandelion The dandelion plant is a beneficial weed, with a wide range of uses, and is even a good companion plant for gardening. Its taproot will bring up nutrients for shallower-rooting plants, and add minerals and nitrogen to soil.
Genus Taraxacum Part of the Taraxacum genus because they have tap roots that go straight down into the soil and are perennial plants, meaning they can live year after year. Species Taraxacum officinale Part of the officinale because they are yellow with their leaves turned up. Part of the Asterales order because they contain an inferior ovary and have a central flowering head. Family Asteraceae. Part of the Asteraceae family because they are dicotyledonous flowering plants and are composites. The flower head is actually composed of many individual florets called discs and/or rays.
The common name dandelion (/ˈdaendɨlaɪ.ˈdændɨlaɪ/ əN-dan-di-ly, ən From french-dent-de, lion meaning'lion s) tooth is given to members of the. Genus like other members of The asteraceae, family they have very small flowers collected together into a composite flower. Head each single flower in a head is called a. floret The dandelion plant is a beneficial weed, with a wide range of uses, and is even a good companion plant for gardening. Its taproot will bring up nutrients for shallower-rooting plants, and add minerals and nitrogen to soil.
Taraxacum /təˈraeksəkʉm/ təˈræksəkʉm is a large genus of flowering plants in the Family asteraceae and consists of species commonly known as. Dandelion they are native To eurasia And North, america and two, Species. t officinale And. t, erythrospermum are found as commonplace wild flowers. worldwide The dandelion plant is a beneficial weed, with a wide range of uses, and is even a good companion plant for gardening. Its taproot will bring up nutrients for shallower-rooting plants, and add minerals and nitrogen to soil.
The genus name Taraxacum, possibly from the Arabic word  Tharakhchakon , or from the Greek word  Tarraxos . The common name dandelion, comes from the French phrase  dent de lion  which means lion's tooth, in reference to the jagged shaped foliage. 1 Taraxacum officinale ssp. officinale, which is commonly called common dandelion or wandering dandelion. 2  Taraxacum officinale ssp. vulgare (Lam.) Schinz & R. Keller, which is commonly called common
Both species are edible in their entirety. The common name dandelion (/ˈdaendɨlaɪ.ˈdændɨlaɪ/ əN-dan-di-ly, ən From french-dent-de, lion meaning'lion s) tooth is given to members of the. genus The dandelion plant is a beneficial weed, with a wide range of uses, and is even a good companion plant for gardening. Its taproot will bring up nutrients for shallower-rooting plants, and add minerals and nitrogen to soil.
Dandelions are a species of flowering plant known by the scientific name Taraxacum officinale. Dandelions are bright and colorful plants that are known mainly for the seeds they produce. You can usually see kids blowing the air catching seeds in the wind. 
The common name Dandelion is given to members of the genus Taraxacum, a large genus of flowering plants in the family Asteraceae. In the Asteraceae (formerly Compositae) the flowers are morphologically a composite flower head consisting of many tiny flowers called florets. While the dandelion is considered a weed by most gardeners and lawn owners, the plant does have several culinary uses, and the specific name officinalis refers to its value as a medicinal herb. Dandelions are grown commercially on a small scale as a leaf vegetable.
Part of the Taraxacum genus because they have tap roots that go straight down into the soil and are perennial plants, meaning they can live year after year. Species Taraxacum officinale. Part of the officinale because they are yellow with their. leaves turned up. Part of the Asterales order because they contain an inferior ovary and have a central flowering head. Family Asteraceae. Part of the Asteraceae family because they are dicotyledonous flowering plants and are composites. The flower head is actually composed of many individual florets called discs and/or rays.
Order Asterales Part of the Asterales order because they contain an inferior ovary and have a central flowering head. Family Asteraceae Part of the Asteraceae family because they are dicotyledonous flowering plants and are composites. Part of the Asterales order because they contain an inferior ovary and have a central flowering head. Family Asteraceae. Part of the Asteraceae family because they are dicotyledonous flowering plants and are composites. The flower head is actually composed of many individual florets called discs and/or rays.