Acacia honey is best to use every morning, one tea spoon before breakfast (if needed use more), or dissolved in warm water, milk, tea, or even better in apple vinegar. It is recommended to use it with chamomile tea, because it increases the effect of tea and honey. Acacia honey is for its pleasant and mild taste and reduced presence of pollen (that is not wanted because of allergies) and exceptional healing properties, it is very useful in the diet of young people. This honey, because of its specific aroma, increases appetite and quickly replenishes lost energy.
Acacia honey is a mild type of honey that comes from the black locust, or false Acacia, plant. When cooking with honey, acacia is a popular choice due to its ability to retain its liquid quality for a lengthy period of time. Some say that acacia honey has vanilla notes, and honey tasters often delight in the floral flavors present in the product as well. The honey is light enough to dress anything from toast to tea, while still providing enough punch to be used in any cooking projects requiring baking with honey.
Culinary uses of acacia honey vary widely. It is considered a particularly good honey for children due to its mild nature. In addition to flavoring baked goods, beverages, and both sweet and savory dishes, many like to serve this honey with various cheeses, such as ricotta, as an appetizer or snack. Some say that acacia honey has vanilla notes, and honey tasters often delight in the floral flavors present in the product as well. The honey is light enough to dress anything from toast to tea, while still providing enough punch to be used in any cooking projects requiring baking with honey.
Hello Zaheerhusain: This type of honey is sold in Europe as Acacia honey, but in the United States it is sold as American Acacia or Locust honey. This type of honey comes from the “False Acacia” or Black Locust tree (Robinia pseudoacacia) and seldom from Acacia species at all. This tree is also found in Europe, and in this region, it is called Acacia, although the honey does not come from true acacias. In fact, in America, this honey is sometimes labeled Black Locust or American Acacia.
Some of the known types of honey are: acacia, linden, chestnut, sage, etc. Each of these species is easily distinguished by color, flavor and other characteristics. Acacia honey (Robinia pseudoacacia). Acacia honey (Robinia pseudoacacia) by value for the beekeeping belongs to the first place. The selection of soil is very modest, and growth and the lowest type of soil, and even on live sand. The largest acacia forest in the former Yugoslavia are in Vojvodina. 
Honey, including acacia honey, contains compounds called flavonoids and phenolics that act as antioxidants. Antioxidants protect the cells from damage done by free radicals. According to the National Honey Board, darker honeys have higher levels of antioxidants. Acacia honey rarely comes from real acacia trees. Photo Credit Anup Shah/Digital Vision/Getty Images. There are more than 300 types of honey, with each variety classed by the source of blossoms the bees use to collect pollen to make honey, reports the National Honey Board.
Acacia honey: healing properties and use. Acacia honey is one of most wanted and most selling type of honey in the world. It is produced from the nectar of thee acacia flower. You should be especially careful, since the acacia tree is poisonous, except the flowers, that are white and smelly, and are connected in clusters long about 20 cm. Acacia honey is for its pleasant and mild taste and reduced presence of pollen (that is not wanted because of allergies) and exceptional healing properties, it is very useful in the diet of young people. This honey, because of its specific aroma, increases appetite and quickly replenishes lost energy.
Acacia honey is from the black locust tree, (also called “false” Acacia) native to North America. This tree is also found in Europe, and in this region, it is called Acacia, although the honey does not come from true acacias. In fact, in America, this honey is sometimes labeled Black Locust or American Acacia.
Like other types of honey, acacia can be used in beauty products as well. It is known as a productive aid to clarifying the complexion. It can be used to make a sweet homemade lip balm, too. Some say that acacia honey has vanilla notes, and honey tasters often delight in the floral flavors present in the product as well. The honey is light enough to dress anything from toast to tea, while still providing enough punch to be used in any cooking projects requiring baking with honey.
Acacia honey comes from the black locust or false acacia tree and is usually labeled as American acacia or locust honey in the United States. Acacia is often light-colored or even clear, like liquid glass, with a mild taste containing hints of vanilla. Acacia honey rarely comes from real acacia trees. Photo Credit Anup Shah/Digital Vision/Getty Images. There are more than 300 types of honey, with each variety classed by the source of blossoms the bees use to collect pollen to make honey, reports the National Honey Board.