The United States purchased Alaska from Russia in 1867 for $7.2 million, a seeming bargain that becomes less so in Mr. Barker’s rendering, as he calculates that amounts to $16.5 billion in 2007 dollars, if one adjusts for the relative size of the national economy then and now. 
When did the United States buy Alaska? The United States purchased Alaska from Russia in 1867, for the sum of $ 7.2 million USD. Secretary of State William Seward accepted the terms of sale on March 30, and the Sen … ate approved the treaty on April 9, 1867. The formal transfer was on October 12, 1867.
On March 30, 1867, the United States reached an agreement to purchase Alaska from Russia for a price of $7.2 million. The Treaty with Russia was negotiated and signed by Secretary of State William Seward and Russian Minister to the United States Edouard de Stoeckl. Critics of the deal to purchase Alaska called it Sewards Folly or Sewards Icebox.. Opposition to the purchase of Alaska subsided with the Klondike Gold Strike in 1896. In this lesson, students use primary sources from Russia and the U.S. to examine the respective Russian and American rationales for agreeing to the sale. March 30, 1867 Secretary of State William H. Seward agreed to purchase Alaska from Russia for $7.2 million on March 30, 1867.
The 1867 Treaty of Cession, in which the United States purchased Alaska from the Russian empire, marked an unusually peaceful transition. The purchase of Alaska was done under amicable circumstances, and both Russia and the U.S. felt they gained from the Treaty. In this lesson, students use primary sources from Russia and the U.S. to examine the respective Russian and American rationales for agreeing to the sale. March 30, 1867 Secretary of State William H. Seward agreed to purchase Alaska from Russia for $7.2 million on March 30, 1867.
Barandarian, in the particular of case of Alaska it might make more sense. After all, when people say that Alaska was a good purchase, they don;t mean that in the abstract having Alaska in the union is good thing worth paying for. They usually mean that it contained oil and other valuables, and selling/ “taxing” those generates indeed a significant flow towards the federal coffins. Now that that doesn’t appear to be the case,you can go into more complicated reasons why it was or was not a good decision. But in the case of Alaska, it could been simply the case that it was profitable using any calculus, and knowing that that isn’t the case is indeed knowledge.
The U.S. bought Alaska from the Russian Empire in 1867 for $7.2 million. At the time the purchase was derided as “Seward’s Folly,” but today it’s common to compare the purchase price with Alaska’s gross state product of $45 billion and claim it a resounding success. Now that that doesn’t appear to be the case,you can go into more complicated reasons why it was or was not a good decision. But in the case of Alaska, it could been simply the case that it was profitable using any calculus, and knowing that that isn’t the case is indeed knowledge.
The US $7.2 million check used to pay for Alaska ($121 million in 2015 dollars). The Alaska Purchase was the United States' acquisition of Alaska from the Russian Empire in 1867 by a treaty ratified by the United States Senate. Russia wanted to sell its Alaskan territory, fearing that it might be seized if war broke out with Britain. With the purchase of Alaska, negotiated by Secretary Seward, the United States acquired an area twice as large as Texas, but it was not until the great Klondike gold strike in 1896 that Alaska came to be seen generally as a valuable addition to American territory.
Purchase of Alaska March 30, 1867. But Seward had wanted to buy Alaska for a long time. Alaska is so large that the addition of this land would increase the size of the U.S. by nearly 20 percent. Russia had established a presence in Alaska in the early 18th century and offered to sell it to the United States during President James Buchanan's administration. But the Civil War stalled negotiations.