First, a person is exposed to an allergen by inhaling it, swallowing it, or getting it on their skin. After a person is exposed to the allergen, a series of events create the allergic reaction 1  : The body starts to produce a specific type of antibody, called IgE, to bind the allergen. Other exposures can cause different allergic reactions: 1  Food allergies. 2  An allergic reaction to food allergens can also cause stomach cramps, vomiting, or diarrhea. 3  Insect stings. 4  The allergic reaction to a sting from a bee or other insect causes local swelling, redness, and pain.
An allergy is the immune system’s response to a foreign substance that’s not typically harmful to your body. These foreign substances are called allergens. They can include certain foods, pollen, or pet dander. They elicit a response from your immune system. Your immune system’s job is to keep you healthy by fighting infection and other harmful pathogens.
Food allergies can trigger swelling, hives, nausea, fatigue, and more. It may take awhile for a person to realize that they have a food allergy. If you have a serious reaction after a meal and you’re not sure why, see your doctor. They will be able to find the exact cause of your reaction or refer you to a specialist. These foreign substances are called allergens. They can include certain foods, pollen, or pet dander. They elicit a response from your immune system. Your immune system’s job is to keep you healthy by fighting infection and other harmful pathogens.
You have an allergy when your body overreacts to things that don't cause problems for most people. These things are called allergens. Your body's overreaction to the allergens is what causes symptoms. Hay fever, also known as allergic rhinitis (say: “rine-EYE-tis”), is an allergic reaction to pollen. Symptoms of hay fever are seasonal, meaning you will feel worse when the pollens that affect you are at their highest levels. Hay fever is the most common form of allergy. It affects 1 in 5 people
It is extremely important that you adhere to this schedule. The allergist will also keep track of your symptoms to see how well the shots are working for you. The only reason to have further skin testing is if the allergy shots are not working and there is concern that you may have developed more allergies. 
Allergies, by definition, are a reaction to the body seeing something as foreign.. Based on this, any part of your body that comes into direct contact with the environment around us or the things we breathe or ingest can cause an allergic reaction. Allergies also can frequently cause headaches, fatigue and irritability. When you eat a food it does get distributed throughout the body in an allergenic form and can cause allergic reactions in different parts of the body.
If you become exposed to an allergen for the first time, your symptoms may be mild. These symptoms may get worse if you repeatedly come into contact with the allergen. Symptoms of a mild allergic reaction can include: 1  hives (itchy red spots on the skin). 2  itching. 3  nasal congestion (known as rhinitis). 4  rash. 5  scratchy throat. 
Allergy symptoms occur when your immune system overreacts to an allergen—something that usually is harmless, such as plant pollen, dust mites, molds, insect stings or food. If you have an allergy, your immune system acts as if the allergen were dangerous, releasing a chemical called histamine that causes allergy symptoms. Learn about headaches, a common symptom of allergies. If the allergen is something you breathe in from the air, your reaction will most likely affect your eyes, nose and lungs. If it's something you eat, it may affect your mouth, stomach and intestines. Food allergies also can cause skin rashes or even asthma symptoms. Food Allergy