The activites in this text use the BASIC Stamp 2 microcontroller module on a Board of Education, or a BASIC Stamp HomeWork Board. It is included in the BASIC Stamp Activity Kits and BASIC Stamp Discovery Kits. Version 3.0. Download Version & Details. 
PIC microcontrollers are a family of specialized microcontroller chips produced by Microchip Technology in Chandler, Arizona. The acronym PIC stands for peripheral interface controller, although that term is rarely used nowadays. 
A microcontroller is a small computer on a single integrated circuit containing a processor core, memory, and programmable input/output peripherals. Program memory in the form of Ferroelectric RAM, NOR flash or OTP ROM is also often included on chip, as well as a typically small amount of RAM. Microcontrollers are designed for embedded applications, in contrast to the microprocessors used in personal computers or other general purpose applications. In 2012, 4-bit microcontrollers also see significant sales. In 2015, 8-bit microcontrollers can be bought for $0.311 (1,000 units), 16-bit for $0.385 (1,000 units), and 32-bit for $0.378 (1,000 units but at $0.35 for 5,000).
Microcontrollers are used in automatically controlled products and devices, such as automobile engine control systems, implantable medical devices, remote controls, office machines, appliances, power tools, toys and other embedded systems. In 2012, 4-bit microcontrollers also see significant sales. In 2015, 8-bit microcontrollers can be bought for $0.311 (1,000 units), 16-bit for $0.385 (1,000 units), and 32-bit for $0.378 (1,000 units but at $0.35 for 5,000).
Microcontrollers are widely used in everyday items such as washing machines, remote controls, microwave ovens, mobile phones and vending machines. A modern car can contain around 40 of them. Several different types are commonly used in school electronics projects, including PICs, PICAXE and GENIE microcontrollers. 
1 Microcontrollers are  embedded  inside some other device (often a consumer product) so that they can control the features or actions of the product. 2  Another name for a microcontroller, therefore, is embedded controller.. 3  Microcontrollers are dedicated to one task and run one specific program. A microcontroller is a computer. All computers -- whether we are talking about a personal desktop computer or a large mainframe computer or a microcontroller -- have several things in common: 1  All computers have a CPU (central processing unit) that executes programs.
8051 is an 8-bit family of microcontroller developed by Intel in the year 1981. This is one of the most popular family of microcontroller being used all across the world. This microcontroller was also referred as “system on a chip” because it has 128 bytes of RAM, 4Kbytes of ROM, 2 Timers, 1 Serial port, and four ports on a single chip. The CPU can work for only 8bits of data at a time because 8051 is an 8-bit processor.
The actual processor used to implement a microcontroller can vary widely. For example, the cell phone shown on Inside a Digital Cell Phone contains a Z-80 processor. The Z-80 is an 8-bit microprocessor developed in the 1970s and originally used in home computers of the time. A microcontroller is a computer. All computers -- whether we are talking about a personal desktop computer or a large mainframe computer or a microcontroller -- have several things in common: 1  All computers have a CPU (central processing unit) that executes programs.
Different Types of Microcontrollers. A microcontroller is a small chip used as an embedded system. Some microcontrollers may consume work at clock rate frequencies and four bit expressions that generally include: Different Types of Microcontrollers. 1  An 8-bit or 16-bit microprocessor. 2  Flash memory and PROM. Basically, different types of microcontrollers used in automobiles are AVR microcontroller, 8051 microcontroller, PIC microcontroller, etc. These types of microcontrollers need a chip that comprises a CPU, RAM (random-access memory), program memory, and programmable I/Ps and O/Ps.
A microcontroller is a small and low-cost computer built for the purpose of dealing with specific tasks, such as displaying information in a microwave LED or receiving information from a television’s remote control. Microcontrollers are mainly used in products that require a degree of control to be exerted by the user. 