The dietary regime of baboons consists mainly of plant-eating, in spite of the size of their canines (they serve them mainly as protection). They eat also grasshoppers, ants, and sometimes small gazelles and unprotected chickens. The olds monkeys have cheeks-skin pockets which draw tight when full of food. In order to find food, each day these monkeys walk 10 km in the zone which they inhabit constantly.
Olive baboons consume several invertebrates, small birds, mammals, and a wide variety of plants. They supplement their diet with flowers, tubers, roots, leaves, lichens, bark, fruits, grass, mushrooms, rhizomes, seeds, and corms. Baboons are ground-dwelling species and they fancy living in open areas such as open savanna and open woodland hills across Africa. Generally they are herbivorous but their diet is omnivorous too. Baboons supplement their diet with some insects and they also feed on fish. Baboons are known to prey on trout and fish, and if available they also feed on vervet monkeys, shellfish, birds, small antelopes, and hares. Baboons are neither diurnal nor nocturnal as they may be active during anytime of the day or night
What Do Baboons Eat. Baboons are known to prey on trout and fish, and if available they also feed on vervet monkeys, shellfish, birds, small antelopes, and hares. Baboons are ground-dwelling species and they fancy living in open areas such as open savanna and open woodland hills across Africa. Generally they are herbivorous but their diet is omnivorous too. Baboons supplement their diet with some insects and they also feed on fish. Baboons are known to prey on trout and fish, and if available they also feed on vervet monkeys, shellfish, birds, small antelopes, and hares. Baboons are neither diurnal nor nocturnal as they may be active during anytime of the day or night
Baboons eat mainly plants and fruits, but they also sometimes eat hares, birds, and small monkeys and antelope. Baboons: Hiking and Dangers. If you encounter a baboon troop while hiking, first realize that they are not looking at you as food. 
Omnivorous means baboons eat both plant and animal matter just as humans do. Opportunistic means they eat whatever they can find. Scientists who study baboons have found them to eat fruits, seeds, flowers, nuts, crabs, shellfish, gazelle and even garbage produced by humans. Baboons use vocalizations to tell other baboons about food and predators. Anup Shah/Digital Vision/Getty Images. Baboon refers to five species of Old World monkeys that live throughout Africa and Asia. While baboons are some of the largest monkeys, they do differ in size and, therefore, feeding requirements. Unlike many animals, baboons have a flexible diet so their food needs vary depending on what they find to eat
Grass makes up a large part of their diet, along with berries, seeds, pods, blossoms, leaves, roots, bark and sap from a variety of plants. Baboons also eat insects and small quantities of meat, such as fish, shellfish, hares, birds, vervet monkeys and young, small antelopes. Caring for the Young. For the first month, an infant baboon stays in very close contact with its mother. 
Baboons do occasionally hunt and eat small animals such as hares and lizards, but such foods comprise only a very small portion of their diet, which includes virtually everything (i.e., they are 'omnivores'). For more on baboon diets, see the Baboon Ecology page. Unlike dogs and cats, baboons are not natural carnivores and they do not have adaptations for hunting and eating meat. The long canine teeth you see on a male baboon are instead adaptations for male-male competition; males use these teeth to fight with other males and gain access to females.
Audio. There are five different species of baboons. All of them live in Africa or Arabia. Baboons are some of the world's largest monkeys, and males of different species average from 33 to 82 pounds (15 to 37 kilograms). Baboon bodies are 20 to 40 inches (60 to 102 centimeters) long, not including substantial tails of varying lengths. Baboons generally prefer savanna and other semi-arid habitats, though a few live in tropical forests. Like other Old World monkeys, baboons do not have prehensile (gripping) tails. But they can and do climb trees to sleep, eat, or look out for trouble.