1 You have 60 days from the day you file your divorce papers to serve your spouse. 2  If you are not able to serve within that time, you can go back to the Family Court Intake Center before the 60 days are up. 3  They will give you a new Summons and you will get an additional 60 days.
How the papers must be served The papers can be served in 1 of 2 ways: 1  Personal service. 2  This means that your “server” hand-delivers a copy of all the papers (and the blank forms) to your spouse or domestic partner. 3  In most cases, you will have to do personal service for your initial divorce or legal separation papers.
Once you serve your spouse or domestic partner with copies of your papers, you must show the court that you completed this step. To do this, your “server” has to fill out a proof of service form telling the judge when and how he or she served the papers on your spouse/domestic partner.
Hire a sheriff or process server to serve the divorce papers on your spouse. You can use the sheriff or a server in your county if your spouse lives there. If he lives in a different county, you will need to have a sheriff or server in that county serve the papers.
If you filed for divorce you must have copies of your court papers served on (given to) your spouse. If you and your spouse are able to safely talk and cooperate, your spouse can also agree to accept service of the documents. Be careful! There are special rules and strict deadlines for service.
1 You have 60 days from the day you file your divorce papers to serve your spouse. 2  If you are not able to serve within that time, you can go back to the Family Court Central Intake Center before the 60 days are up. 3  They will give you a new Summons and you will get an additional 60 days.
3. Certified mail, return receipt requested: Serving divorce papers this way requires that your spouse sign a paper that is attached to the envelope when he receives the petition in the mail. This “return receipt” is then mailed back to you after it is signed, and will serve as proof of service.
Before you serve divorce papers, you have to file certain papers with the court in the county you reside in. These documents are typically called a divorce petition or summons. The divorce papers that are served to your spouse let him know that you have filed for divorce, and these papers must be served correctly.