Profile. Carlsberg A/S is an international brewing company. The Company produces branded beers and regional brands. Carlsberg makes most of its beer outside of Denmark, and it is sold in markets around the world. The Company also markets and produces soft drinks, water, and wine. 
Carlsberg A/S produces and sells beer and other beverage products in Western Europe, Eastern Europe, and Asia. The company offers its products primarily under the Carlsberg, Tuborg, Somersby, Kronenbourg 1664, Grimbergen, Karhu, Ringnes, Feldschl... View More. 
Also Carlsberg was looking for ways to expand its business. In 2000 Carlsberg agreed with Orkla, one of Norway’s largest listed companies, to merge their brewing and soft drinks activities into Carlsberg Breweries A/S – a new joint-venture with headquarters in Copenhagen. The international brewing operations included export of beer brewed in Denmark as well as local production. In 2004, Carlsberg A/S acquired Orkla’s 40% shareholding in Carlsberg Breweries, which thus became a 100% owned Carlsberg company. Today Carlsberg’s strategy is concentrated on the three key focus areas: Northern & Western Europe, Eastern Europe and Asia
Carlsberg A/S engages in the production and marketing of alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages. It also engages in the development and selling of real estate projects, and the operation of the Carlsberg research center. The company operates through the following segments: Western Europe, Eastern Europe, and Asia. Carlsberg was founded by Jacob Christian Jacobsen on November 10, 1847 and is headquartered in Copenhagen, Denmark. 
In addition, Carlsberg Malaysia through its partnership with Luen Heng F & B Sdn. Bhd also distributes a wide range of imported international beer brands such as Hoegaarden, Stella Artois, Budweiser, Grimbergen and Beck’s. The Company now has 7 of 9 world’s top international beer brands. 
The company's flagship brand is Carlsberg Beer (named after Jacobsen's son Carl) but it also brews Tuborg, Kronenbourg, Somersby cider, Russia's best selling beer Baltika, Belgian Grimbergen abbey beers and more than 500 local beers. Carlsberg started to export beer to China in 1876. In the late 1990s, Carlsberg had two breweries in China – Huizhou and Shanghai. The company acquired Huizhou Brewery in Guangdong Province in 1995, which started to supply both the Chinese and Hong Kong market.
Carlsberg Polska is the Polish subsidiary of the Carlsberg Group. Carlsberg acquired 100% control of the Okocim Group, which included the Okocim Brewery, in 2004. The subsidiary owns four brewing plants and employs a staff of 1,250. It is the third largest brewing company in Poland with a 14.4% market share. Carlsberg started to export beer to China in 1876. In the late 1990s, Carlsberg had two breweries in China – Huizhou and Shanghai. The company acquired Huizhou Brewery in Guangdong Province in 1995, which started to supply both the Chinese and Hong Kong market.
Carlsberg was founded by J. C. Jacobsen, a philanthropist and avid art collector. With his fortune he amassed an impressive art collection which is now housed in the Ny Carlsberg Glyptotek in central Copenhagen. The first brew was finished on 10 November 1847, and export of Carlsberg beer and glass began in 1868. Carlsberg started to export beer to China in 1876. In the late 1990s, Carlsberg had two breweries in China – Huizhou and Shanghai. The company acquired Huizhou Brewery in Guangdong Province in 1995, which started to supply both the Chinese and Hong Kong market.
Thai Beverage, better known as ThaiBev (Thai: ไทยเบฟ) (SGX: Y92), is Thailand's largest and one of Southeast Asia 's largest beverage companies, with distilleries in Thailand, Scotland, Ireland, China and France. Listed on the Singapore Stock Exchange, Thai Beverage Plc has a market capitalisation in excess of US$4bn. The first market outside Thailand to distribute Archa Beer was Singapore and it was successfully launched in Singapore back in 2012 by InterBev (Singapore) Ltd. [1] . In 2006, the company launched Chang Light, 4.2% abv and Chang Draught in bottles, at 5% abv. They were discontinued in 2015.