While homophony can be heard in nearly all European musical traditions, the first notated examples appeared during the Medieval period in dance music, such as the Estampie. However, because manuscript was expensive to produce, there is little record of Medieval homophony, most notated music being monophonic. A homophonic texture is also homorhythmic (or uses a very similar rhythm). However, in melody-dominated homophony, one voice, often the highest, plays a distinct melody, and the accompanying voices work together to articulate an underlying harmony.
Summary. Homophony is a texture of music that has one main melody line with a chord structure underneath. When individual parts provide this chord structure under the melody, such as in four-part hymns or barbershop quartet music, the melody and harmony must use the same rhythm. Some types of music can be like this when there are many different melodies playing at the same time. Other types of music use a simpler texture, such as homophony, that makes it is easier to understand what is being said. In homophony, there is one main melody and an accompanying harmony. This texture is particularly useful for songs with lyrics that need to be understood
Homophony. a type of many-voiced music characterized by the division of voices into the main voice and accompanying voices. It is primarily in this respect that homophony is different from polyphony, which is based on the equality of voices. The flourishing of homophony, for which the humanist ideas of the Renaissance paved the way, took place in the 17th to 19th centuries.
A homophone is a word that is pronounced the same as another word but differs in meaning, and may differ in spelling. The words may be spelled the same, such as rose (flower) and rose (past tense of rise), or differently, such as carat, caret, and carrot, or to, two, and too. The term homophone may also apply to units longer or shorter than words, such as phrases, letters or groups of letters that are pronounced the same as another phrase, letter or group of letters. A word or unit with this property is said to be homophonous.
Please try again later. A homophonic texture is perhaps the most common texture we are likely to find in any piece of music. When a piece of music has a very clearly melody and chords supporting it-chances are it is a homophonic texture. You can learn more about how music works at www.daveconservatoire.org.
Homophony PODCAST. A musical texture consisting of one melody and an accompaniment that supports it. Homophony is a musical texture of several parts in which one melody predominates; the other parts may be either simple chords or a more elaborate accompaniment pattern. Summary: 1  Homophony is an important category of musical texture. 2  It comprises a melody and an accompaniment. 3  The accompaniment may consist of chords moving together with the melody, or a more elaborate pattern, possibly of broken chords or figurations.
In music, homophony (/hɵˈmɒfəni/ ; Greek: ὁμόφωνος, homophōnos, homóphōnos from, ὁμός, homos homós same, and, φωνή, phōnē) sound tone is a texture in which two or more parts move together, in harmony the relationship between them. creating chords A homophonic texture is also homorhythmic (or uses a very similar rhythm). However, in melody-dominated homophony, one voice, often the highest, plays a distinct melody, and the accompanying voices work together to articulate an underlying harmony.
Noun. 1. homophony-the same pronunciation for words of different origins. pronunciation-the manner in which someone utters a word; they are always correcting my pronunciation. Mnemic homophony gives us, without the addition of other processes of thought, a picture of our friend X which is in a certain sense abstract, not the concrete in any one situation, but X cut loose from any particular point of time.
Homophony in Tallis' If ye love me, composed in 1549. The voices move together using the same rhythm, and the relationship between them creates chords: the excerpt begins and ends with an F major triad. This example can be heard in the listening sample below. A homophonic texture is also homorhythmic (or uses a very similar rhythm). However, in melody-dominated homophony, one voice, often the highest, plays a distinct melody, and the accompanying voices work together to articulate an underlying harmony.