The brainstem is located at the juncture of the cerebrum and the spinal column. It is anterior to the cerebellum. The brainstem is the region of the brain that connects the cerebrum with the spinal cord. Motor and sensory neurons travel through the brainstem allowing for the relay of signals between the brain and the spinal cord. The brain doesn't just control your organs, but also can think and remember. That part of the brain is called the mind. It consists of three major parts which are the cerebrum, the cerebellum, the brain stem. The cerebrum or the cortex is the largest part of the human brain.
1 Together, the spinal cord and the brain make up the Central Nervous System (CNS). 2  The brain receives information, makes a decision and then sends instructions. 3  The spinal cord is made up of sensory and motor nerves and sends messages from the brain to the body. 1 5. 2  6. 3  7. 4  8. 5  Importance of the Spinal Cord The spinal cord acts as the primary information pathway between the brain and all the other nervous systems of the body. 6  It receives sensory information from the skin, joints, and muscles of the trunk, arms, and legs, which it then relays upward to the brain.
The Central Nervous System (CNS) refers to the first two of these, i.e. the brain and spinal cord. There are two ways in which the nervous system handles these changes, depending on how urgently a reaction is needed: 1  A response coordinated by the brain. 2  This is the usual and slower way of responding. 
1 Movement. 2  and almost all other body functions. 3  Together, the spinal cord and the brain make up the Central Nervous System (CNS). 4  The brain receives information, makes a decision and then sends instructions. 1 5. 2  6. 3  7. 4  8. 5  Importance of the Spinal Cord The spinal cord acts as the primary information pathway between the brain and all the other nervous systems of the body. 6  It receives sensory information from the skin, joints, and muscles of the trunk, arms, and legs, which it then relays upward to the brain.
Brain. The brain, along with the spinal cord, comprises the body's central nervous system. This is the major control network for the body's functions and abilities, and enables conscious communication with our body and automatic operation of vital org... Read More. The cerebellum is below and behind the cerebrum and is attached to the brain stem. It controls motor function, the body's ability to balance, and its ability to interpret information sent to the brain by the eyes, ears, and other sensory organs.
the structure and function of nervous system. Extracts from this document... Introduction. The nervous system is a major system which controls and regulates communication system in the body. The nervous system is composed of organs such as the brain, spinal chord, nerves and ganglia. Also these consist of various tissues including nerve, blood and connective tissue. Together these all carry out the complex activities of the nervous system. The nervous system can be divided into two parts. a) Central nervous system: consists of the brain and spinal chord and all there nerves and organs which control the voluntary and involuntary acts e.g. breathing, moving the joints etc. I) The brain: is a large mass of soft tissue contained inside the cranium
1 The brain receives information, makes a decision and then sends instructions. 2  The spinal cord is made up of sensory and motor nerves and sends messages from the brain to the body. 3  Responsible for communication between the CNS and the rest of the body. 1 5. 2  6. 3  7. 4  8. 5  Importance of the Spinal Cord The spinal cord acts as the primary information pathway between the brain and all the other nervous systems of the body. 6  It receives sensory information from the skin, joints, and muscles of the trunk, arms, and legs, which it then relays upward to the brain.
1 and almost all other body functions. 2  Together, the spinal cord and the brain make up the Central Nervous System (CNS). 3  The brain receives information, makes a decision and then sends instructions. 4  The spinal cord is made up of sensory and motor nerves and sends messages from the brain to the body. 1 5. 2  6. 3  7. 4  8. 5  Importance of the Spinal Cord The spinal cord acts as the primary information pathway between the brain and all the other nervous systems of the body. 6  It receives sensory information from the skin, joints, and muscles of the trunk, arms, and legs, which it then relays upward to the brain.