Forensic Accounting is the specialty practice area of accounting that describes engagements that result from actual or anticipated disputes or litigation. “Forensic” means suitable for use in Court, and it is to that standard and potential outcome that forensic accountants generally have to work. 
Financial auditing is often performed by other accountants and auditors, as well as forensic auditors. This service consists of reviewing a company's financial statements and verifying that they've been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting practices, and meet appropriate standards of accuracy. Fraud auditing is a service provided to companies by forensic auditors working as outside consultants. Firms hire an auditor to review their books and accounting procedures, ensuring that their operational practices will make fraud difficult and improve the likelihood of detecting any fraud that takes place.
Forensic accountants, also referred to as forensic auditors or investigative auditors, often have to give expert evidence at the eventual trial. All of the larger accounting firms, as well as many medium-sized and boutique firms and various Police and Government agencies have specialist forensic accounting departments. Some forensic accountants specialize in forensic analytics which is the procurement and analysis of electronic data to reconstruct, detect, or otherwise support a claim of financial fraud. The main steps in forensic analytics are (a) data collection, (b) data preparation, (c) data analysis, and (d) reporting.
Forensic audits are used wherever an entity's finances present a legal concern. For instance, it is used in cases of suspected embezzlement or fraud, to determine tax liability, to investigate a spouse during divorce proceedings or to investigate allegations of bribery, among other reasons. In this case, a forensic audit may be requested by a judge or an outside company to either determine the lost income as a result of a fraudulent report or to determine the damage that falsified reports caused to shareholders, clients or employees.
Forensic Auditors. Accounting students who wish to become forensic auditors can choose from the limited number of programs offering that major, or take a conventional accounting degree and then earn certification in forensic accounting techniques. Forensic accountants must combine a diverse set of skills. Fraud auditing is a service provided to companies by forensic auditors working as outside consultants. Firms hire an auditor to review their books and accounting procedures, ensuring that their operational practices will make fraud difficult and improve the likelihood of detecting any fraud that takes place.
Forensic auditing is also known as forensic accounting. A forensic auditor is a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) who uses special techniques to detect or prevent certain types of crime for businesses and government agencies. Learn more about forensic auditing and what it takes to become a forensic auditor. At least two recognized certifications are available for forensic auditors. The first is through the American College of Forensic Examiners International (ACFEI). This organization awards the Certified Forensic Accountant credential, which you can pursue after you become a CPA and build work experience.
DEFINITION of 'Forensic Audit'. An examination and evaluation of a firm's or individual's financial information for use as evidence in court. A forensic audit can be conducted in order to prosecute a party for fraud, embezzlement or other financial claims. Forensic auditing is a specialization within the field of accounting, and forensic auditors often provide expert testimony during trial proceedings.
what is forensic accounting (and other faq’s). Forensic accounting is the specialty practice area of accountancy, which describes matters that result from actual or anticipated disputes or litigation. “Forensic” means “suitable for use in a court of law”, and it is to that standard and potential outcome that forensic accountants generally have to work. 