1 Allochemical rocks are those that contain grains brought in from elsewhere (i.e. similar to detrital grains in clastic rocks). 2  Orthochemical rocks are those in which the carbonate crystallized in place. 3  Allochemical rocks have grains that may consist of fossiliferous material, ooids, peloids, or intraclasts. Many limestones (carbonate rocks in general) show characteristics similar to those of clastic sediments, like sandstones. Sandstones are composed of sand grains, a mud or clay matrix, and a crystalline cement produced during diagenesis.
Sediments consist of: 1  Detritus: Detritus is fragmental material resulting from the break down of other rocks through the process of weathering. 2  Although we casually use the term erosion to refer to the breakdown of rocks, erosion is technically part of a series of processes that begins with weathering. Detrital Rocks-these rocks have a clastic texture, that is they are composed of fragments compressed and cemented together. In detrital rocks, the clasts are fragments of detritus, the product of weathering of pre-existing rocks.
1 Allochemical rocks have grains that may consist of fossiliferous material, ooids, peloids, or intraclasts. 2  These are embedded in a matrix consisting of microcrystalline carbonate (calcite or dolomite), called micrite, or larger visible crystals of carbonate, called sparite. Many limestones (carbonate rocks in general) show characteristics similar to those of clastic sediments, like sandstones. Sandstones are composed of sand grains, a mud or clay matrix, and a crystalline cement produced during diagenesis.
The carbonate rocks make up 10 to 15% of sedimentary rocks. They largely consist of two types of rocks. Limestones which are composed mostly of calcite (CaCO 3) or high Mg calcite [(Ca,Mg)CO 3 ], and. Many limestones (carbonate rocks in general) show characteristics similar to those of clastic sediments, like sandstones. Sandstones are composed of sand grains, a mud or clay matrix, and a crystalline cement produced during diagenesis.
Rocks are composed of minerals. Three minerals found in granite are  quartz, feldspar and mica. They are present in granite in differing  amounts so all granite doesn't look … the same. It is the largest group of rock forming minerals, and not the  smallest, that is mainly composed of silicates. Almost 90% of the  rocks on Earth are made of silicate mineral … s.
Minerals are different from rocks. A mineral is a chemical compound with a given composition and a defined crystal structure. A rock is a mixture of one or several minerals, in varying proportions. A rock has only two of the characteristics minerals have–it is a solid and it forms naturally. A mineral is a homogeneous naturally occurring substance with a definite but not necessarily fixed chemical composition. Most minerals are solids with an ordered atomic arrangement, and most are inorganic in the chemical sense of that word.
Sediments consist of: 1  Detritus: Detritus is fragmental material resulting from the break down of other rocks through the process of weathering. 2  Weathering breaks down rock by both mechanical and chemical processes. 3  Erosion is the picking up of detritus by wind, water or moving ice. 4  Transport is the moving of detritus by wind water or moving ice. 5  De Detrital Rocks-these rocks have a clastic texture, that is they are composed of fragments compressed and cemented together. In detrital rocks, the clasts are fragments of detritus, the product of weathering of pre-existing rocks.
Igneous rocks are rocks that have solidified from magma. Magmas that cool beneath the surface result in plutonic igneous rocks (Pluto was the god of the underworld in Roman mythology). Plutonic igneous rocks are also referred to as intrusive. Magmas that reach the earth's surface are referred to as lava. Cooling of lavas results in the formation of volcanic igneous rocks, also referred to as extrusive igneous rocks. Seafloor spreading is the process responsible for creating the largest volume of
Conglomerate /kəŋˈɡlɒmərɨt/ is a coarse-grained clastic sedimentary rock that is composed of a substantial fraction of rounded to subangular gravel-size clasts, e.g., granules, pebbles, cobbles, and boulders, larger than 2 mm (0.079 in) in diameter. Conglomerates form by the consolidation and lithification of gravel. The size and composition of the gravel-size fraction of a conglomerate may or may not vary in composition, sorting, and size. In some conglomerates, the gravel-size class consist almost entirely of what were clay clasts at the time of deposition.