Fennel tea is prepared from crushed or ground mature fennel seeds. These seeds are rich in important volatile oil compounds like anethole, fenchone and estragole that are believed to be responsible for its antispasmodic, anti-inflammatory and antibacterial/antimicrobial properties. Other Health Benefits of Fennel Tea. 1  Fennel tea is a mild diuretic and can help flush excess water and toxins out of the body. 2  Fennel seeds are very high in antioxidants, providing extra protection for your body against free radical cellular damage.
While fennel is best known for its culinary properties, it’s also used around the world to treat a number of medical conditions. Fennel is available in capsule form and as a dried herb. However, the most popular part of the plant for medicinal use is the seeds, which are crushed and made into a tea. Keep in mind that fennel hasn’t been extensively studied, so these uses are mostly anecdotal.
One reason for its versatility is that every part can be used: the bulb root, the tender, wispy leaves, and the seeds. Fennel adds a sweetly musky flavor in combination with vegetables such as beets, carrots and sweet potatoes, with savory roast meats and fish, pasta dishes, and even raw in salads. Health Benefits of Fennel. Vitamin C, the most active vitamin in fennel (17% of the daily value), has the strength to zap free radicals looking for a place to cause damage in the body, usually in the form of inflammation, which could lead to joint degeneration and arthritis.
Botanical name: Foeniculum vulgare Thought to have originated in Southern Europe and Mediterranean regions, fennel is an herb with a mild but distinctive licorice flavor and fragrance. Although it still grows wild in surprising places, fennel is cultivated extensively in the U.S., France, India, and Russia. Health Benefits of Fennel. Vitamin C, the most active vitamin in fennel (17% of the daily value), has the strength to zap free radicals looking for a place to cause damage in the body, usually in the form of inflammation, which could lead to joint degeneration and arthritis.
Fennel, a hardy perennial native to the Mediterranean, produces delicate clusters of yellow flowers. Fennel tea, made from the flowers and seeds, has a licorice-like flavor and is used for a variety of purported health benefits, some of which have been substantiated in scientific studies. Consult your doctor or qualified health professional before using fennel to treat a health condition. 
1 Fennel tea is a mild diuretic and can help flush excess water and toxins out of the body. 2  Fennel seeds are very high in antioxidants, providing extra protection for your body against free radical cellular damage. Other Health Benefits of Fennel Tea. 1  Fennel tea is a mild diuretic and can help flush excess water and toxins out of the body. 2  Fennel seeds are very high in antioxidants, providing extra protection for your body against free radical cellular damage.
Fennel is a natural aid for skin care. Fennel seeds, stalks, bulbs, and leaves are all packed with nutrition and are an excellent source of B vitamins. These vitamins, including vitamin C, are essential for maintaining good skin health and even promote collagen synthesis to keep the skin firm and tight.
Sent by Brie. Brie, fennel is a bulbous vegetable with a tall, wispy, fronded top that looks rather like dill. The fronds can be used in salads, but the main attraction of fennel is the bulb itself. It's very firm and crunchy, and it tastes a bit like licorice and anise. It has a fresh, bright taste and it's one of our favorite vegetables for salads and slaws. It can also be grilled or braised until tender. 
Fennel is a perennial, pleasant-smelling herb with yellow flowers. It is native to the Mediterranean, but is now found throughout the world. Dried fennel seeds are often used in cooking as an anise-flavored spice. But don’t confuse fennel with anise; though they look and taste similar, they are not the same. Fennel’s dried ripe seeds and oil are used to make medicine. Fennel is used for various digestive problems including heartburn, intestinal gas, bloating, loss of appetite, and colic in infants. It is also used for upper respiratory tract infections, coughs, bronchitis, cholera, backache, bedwetting, and visual problem