A test of a urine sample that can reveal many problems of the urinary tract and other body systems. The sample may be observed for color, cloudiness, concentration; signs of drug use; chemical composition, including glucose; the presence of protein, blood cells, or germs; or other signs of disease. 
Results. A urine culture is a test to detect and identify organisms (usually bacteria) that may be causing a urinary tract infection (UTI) . Urine culture results are usually ready in 1 to 3 days. Some organisms take longer to grow in the culture; for this reason, results may not be available for several days. Urine in the bladder normally is sterile—it does not contain any bacteria or other organisms (such as fungi). But bacteria can enter the urethra and cause an infection. A urine sample is kept under conditions that allow bacteria and other organisms to grow. If few or no organisms grow, the test is negative.
Test Overview. A urine culture is a test to find and identify germs (usually bacteria) that may be causing a urinary tract infection (UTI) . Urine in the bladder normally is sterile—it does not contain any bacteria or other organisms (such as fungi). But bacteria can enter the urethra and cause an infection. A urine sample is kept under conditions that allow bacteria and other organisms to grow. If few or no organisms grow, the test is negative.
Results. A urine culture is a test to detect and identify organisms (usually bacteria) that may be causing a urinary tract infection (UTI) . Urine culture results are usually ready in 1 to 3 days. Some organisms take longer to grow in the culture; for this reason, results may not be available for several days. Test Overview. A urine culture is a test to find and identify germs (usually bacteria) that may be causing a urinary tract infection (UTI) . Urine in the bladder normally is sterile—it does not contain any bacteria or other organisms (such as fungi). But bacteria can enter the urethra and cause an infection.
A urine culture may be ordered when symptoms indicate the possibility of a urinary tract infection, such as pain and burning when urinating and frequent urge to urinate. 
Guide. A urine culture is a test to find and identify germs (usually bacteria) that may be causing a urinary tract infection (UTI) . Urine in the bladder normally is sterile-it does not contain any bacteria or other organisms (such as fungi). But bacteria can enter the urethra and cause an infection. If few or no organisms grow, the test is negative. If organisms grow in numbers large enough to indicate an infection, the culture is positive. The type of organisms causing the infection are identified with a microscope or by chemical tests. Urinary tract infections are more common in women and girls than in men.
Results. A urine culture is a test to detect and identify organisms (usually bacteria) that may be causing a urinary tract infection (UTI) . Urine culture results are usually ready in 1 to 3 days. Some organisms take longer to grow in the culture; for this reason, results may not be available for several days. Organisms (usually bacteria) grow in the culture. The culture result is positive. A count of 100,000 or more bacteria per milliliter (mL) of urine may be caused by an infection.