A master’s degree in accounting or a master’s degree in business administration (MBA) will require another two more years of study. Those who wish to obtain a doctorate degree in the field will have to study for two to three years more. Associate’s degree programs in accounting last for about two years. Bachelor’s degree programs, meanwhile, can be completed in four years. These programs cover courses on taxes, economics and business administration.
The degree you need to become a surgeon is a Doctor of  Osteopathic Medicine (D.O.) or a Doctor of Medicine (M.D.), which  takes about 8 years in addition to a residency … program working in a  hospital. No master's degree is required to become a surgeon. Master's degress, regardless of major, are generally a 2-year program. However, some people take a heavy load and finish in less time. Also, consider that you will need a bachelor's degree first. Bachelor's degress, regardless of major, are a 4-year program
Those who wish to become CPAs must first finish 150 semester hours of coursework in college. This is 30 hours more than the traditional bachelor’s degree in accounting. In a lot of schools, this requirement is fulfilled in a five-year program that enables students to obtain both a bachelor’s and master’s degrees. However, a master’s degree is not needed to obtain CPA licensure. Associate’s degree programs in accounting last for about two years. Bachelor’s degree programs, meanwhile, can be completed in four years. These programs cover courses on taxes, economics and business administration.
My husband is working on his masters in engineering right now and it took him 4 years to get his bachelors and he got into a 1 year masters program where he started taking mas … ters level classes his senior year. So 5 years for him, which I think would be the fastest anyone could get it done. Master's degress, regardless of major, are generally a 2-year program. However, some people take a heavy load and finish in less time. Also, consider that you will need a bachelor's degree first. Bachelor's degress, regardless of major, are a 4-year program
Online Bachelor Degree Program. If you choose to pursue an online bachelor’s degree in accounting, the time period to earn this type of credential will usually be about 36 to 48 months. If you take courses during the summertime, you may be able to shorten your studies to about 30 months. If you choose, you can further your online education and obtain a graduate level accounting degree. To do this, you should prepare yourself to take part in at least one to years of studies in addition to the three to four years of study that it will take you to earn your bachelor degree.
Generally it takes full time graduate students 2-3 years to earn a master's degree and 4-5 years to earn a PhD. This is assuming they go for the same subject that they hold an … undergrad degree in. Master's degress, regardless of major, are generally a 2-year program. However, some people take a heavy load and finish in less time. Also, consider that you will need a bachelor's degree first. Bachelor's degress, regardless of major, are a 4-year program
Master's Degree Programs. Course work at the master's level will prepare you for management and administrative roles as well as often offer the credit hours required to sit for the CPA exam. Generally, students can pursue an MBA with a focus in accounting or the MAcc, the Master of Accounting. Both an MBA with a focus in accounting and a master's degree in accounting, such as the Master of Accounting (MAcc), will prepare you for managerial positions within the field. We’ll talk more about the differences between them, and how they can further your career, in the masters degrees section.
In the instance of dual degree programs, the length of time to receive a master's degree depends on the additional degree program, and may take as few as four years or as many as ten. Distance Learning: 2 Years. Many schools offer online master's programs, allowing students to work at their own pace without having to travel to campus. Other schools may provide a mixture of distance learning with classroom lab work and/or on-site classes.