Local versions of the show have been produced in nearly 30 countries, as well as one for the Arab world; in some countries, more than one version has aired. The most popular name for the show is Dragons' Den or variations thereof, a name that originated in the United Kingdom. The show has also been titled Shark Tank (a name that originated in the United States) and Lions' Den, and variations on those names, among others. For the fourth series of Dragons' Den, a live, interactive Sixth Dragon Game was developed to be played whilst watching the show, in which viewers are able to decide in real time if they're IN or OUT as the pitches unfold. The Sixth Dragon Game is the first live, interactive game for a TV show in Ireland.
Shark Tank is an American reality television series that premiered August 9, 2009, on ABC. Based on the worldwide television series format Dragons' Den that originally aired in Japan, Shark Tank has aspiring entrepreneur-contestants make business presentations to a panel of shark investors. Shark Tank' s third season premiered in January 2012. During the second season, Kevin Harrington was replaced by Mark Cuban, while in the third season, the queen of QVC Lori Greiner replaced Barbara Corcoran on 4 episodes.
Dragon’s Den. Dragon’s Den originated in Japan, hence the show’s name. Variations of the show then spread to several other countries including the UK, Canada, Australia, Sweden, Israel, Finland, Ireland, the US, and several other countries. People living in Canada have access to the Canadian Version of Dragon’s Den as well as the American version called Shark Tank. Shark Tank has Dragon’s Den beat when it comes to follow-ups. It looks like the Shark Tank investors are able to fulfill and close the deals much faster. But, this may be due to a pre-screening before people get on the show.
Kevin O'Leary: How Dragons' Den and Shark Tank pitches, deals differ. The season seven finale of Dragons’ Den on CBC gave viewers a glimpse into the personal lives of the dragons and what making it as an entrepreneur can look like. As a dragon Mr. O’Leary made 16 on-air deals this season and he made 15 on Shark Tank, which is in the midst of its fourth season.
Please try again later. Jason Cochran with Kevin O'Leary and Robert Herjavec on the set of the second season of Shark Tank.. The two Dragons/Sharks explain how the American version of the show has more potential than the one in their native Canada. For another interview with the duo, click here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wJd78l...
Correction: A previous version of this post implied that the Canadian television show, “Dragons’ Den,” began broadcasting after the similar U.S. show, “Shark Tank”. In fact, “Dragons’ Den” came first. The Observer regrets the error. 
CBC’s Dragon’s Den vs. ABC’s Shark Tank. Canadian entrepreneurs are well familiar with CBC’s reality TV series Dragon’s Den, which features entrepreneurs pitching their businesses to five investors (Dragons) in the hope of receiving funding in exchange for equity. Both shows feature five investors each, and two of the investors are Canadians that appear on both shows, Robert Herjavec and Kevin O’Leary. Having watched the first four episodes of Shark Tank, there are definitely some differences in the two versions. Here are my thoughts: 1.
For Anatomy of a Deal’s end-of-season wrap-up, Mary Teresa Bitti caught up with Kevin O’Leary, who is both a dragon and a shark on ABC’s Shark Tank, the Den’s U.S. counterpart. She asked Mr. O’Leary about his experience on both shows and how the pitches compare. As a dragon Mr. O’Leary made 16 on-air deals this season and he made 15 on Shark Tank, which is in the midst of its fourth season. The following is an edited version of that conversation
Shark Tank is produced by Mark Burnett and based on the TV show Dragon's Den. The show features a panel of potential investors, called sharks, who consider offers from aspiring entrepreneurs seeking investments for their business or product. Shark Tank' s third season premiered in January 2012. During the second season, Kevin Harrington was replaced by Mark Cuban, while in the third season, the queen of QVC Lori Greiner replaced Barbara Corcoran on 4 episodes.