Country dancing in Scotland was also influenced by other Scottish dances such as highland reels and so acquired a particular “Scottish” flavour. In 1923, the Scottish Country Dance Society (SCDS, later “Royal” Scottish Country Dance Society or RSCDS) was founded in order to make Scottish country dancing popular again. In fact, Scottish country dancing is probably more alive today than it ever was in the past, and this is to a very large extent due to the efforts of the RSCDS. Today the RSCDS numbers about 13,000 members and has “branches” in various countries all over the world.
Scottish country dancing (or SCD, for short) is a modern form of the “country dancing” popular in England and Scotland in the 18th century. In fact, Scottish country dancing is probably more alive today than it ever was in the past, and this is to a very large extent due to the efforts of the RSCDS. Today the RSCDS numbers about 13,000 members and has “branches” in various countries all over the world.
There are Scottish Country Dance groups all over the world, where Scottish Country Dancing is enjoyed by people of all ages and ethnic backgrounds. Dancers can travel anywhere in New Zealand and the world and be assured of a warm welcome by local dancers. Scottish dancing traces its roots back into the mists of time, but Scottish Country Dancing as we know it today owes much to its development in the 18th and 19th centuries under the influence of European dancing masters.
Danced to the distinctive Scottish jig, reel and strathspey music, it's good exercise, whether for your legs or your smile. Most of all, it's social dancing, and it's a great way to meet people. Because it's done in a set, everyone dances with others in the set. The traditional ballroom dancing of Scotland, Scottish Country Dancing is still part of the social life of Scottish communities. 
Highland dance or Highland dancing is a style of competitive solo dancing developed in the Scottish Highlands in the nineteenth and twentieth centuries in the context of competitions at public events such as the Highland games, where it is often performed to the accompaniment of Highland bagpipe music. Highland dance has been subject to many influences from outside the Highlands. For example, it has been heavily influenced by the aesthetics of the patrons of Scotland since the nineteenth century and ballet. Highland dance should not be confused with Scottish country dance.
There is a certain amount of cross-over, in that there are Scottish country dances that include highland elements as well as highland-style performance dances which use formations otherwise seen in country dances, but these are relatively few when the two dance forms are considered each as a whole. Tartan sashes should not be pinned to the right shoulder in Scottish dance, unless one is a chief, regiment leader, or spouse of the aforementioned. Despite this protocol, some dancers in England and America do not follow the tradition.
Scottish country dancing at the 2005 Skagit Valley Highland Games in Mount Vernon, Washington, USA. Tartan sashes should not be pinned to the right shoulder in Scottish dance, unless one is a chief, regiment leader, or spouse of the aforementioned. Despite this protocol, some dancers in England and America do not follow the tradition. A Scottish Country dance (SCD) is a form of social dance involving groups of couples of dancers tracing progressive patterns according to a predetermined choreography
For a quick history of dancing in Scotland, see here. They are all danced to Scotland's wonderful music-reels, jigs and the quintessentially Scottish strathspey-and are all great exercise-they beat a trip to the gym any day! Most people in Scotland will have been to a ceilidh at some point in their lives. I think it is mainly danced for performance and in sessions like (or with) Scottish music. But I'm not an expert, so I may have got that all wrong. The final form of dancing, Reeling, is probably the closest form of Scottish dancing to how dances were done 100-150 years ago. It is most popular among the aristocracy and the military, travelling the world with them (but at least until recently, not really spreading much outside those communities)
The reeling repertoire is a subset of the dances enjoyed by Scottish Country dancers. So there you go-a quick tour of Scottish Dancing today. For more information on any particular dance form, check out the appropriate link: 1  Scottish Country Dancing. 2  Highland Dancing. 3  Ceilidh Dancing. 4  Cape Breton Step Dancing. I think it is mainly danced for performance and in sessions like (or with) Scottish music. But I'm not an expert, so I may have got that all wrong. The final form of dancing, Reeling, is probably the closest form of Scottish dancing to how dances were done 100-150 years ago. It is most popular among the aristocracy and the military, travelling the world with them (but at least until recently, not really spreading much outside those communities)