Question: What is nouthetic counseling?. Answer: Quite simply, nouthetic counseling is biblical counseling it gets its name from the Greek work noutheteo which is usually translated admonish (Romans 15:14, NKJV). 
Nouthetic counseling is counseling that uses Scripture to confront people about their sin with the goal of helping to restore them to usefulness (Gal. 6:1). (Subheading above). So….this statement is – right out of the gate – equating counseling with confronting sin. Words fail me. 
Nouthetic Counseling Is Not New. While the name is new, the sort of counseling done by nouthetic counselors is not. From Biblical times onward, God’s people have counseled nouthetically. The word itself is Biblical. It comes from the Greek noun nouthesia (verb: noutheteo). Nouthetic Counseling Embraces Three Ideas. Because the New Testament term is larger than the English word “counsel,” and because it doesn’t carry any of the “freight” that is attached to the latter term, we have simply imported the Biblical term into English.
He is considered the father of the Nouthetic Counseling Movement. I quickly latched on to nouthetic counseling because I viewed it as being faithful to the Scriptures. However, as is often the case, students easily corrupt the views or theology of their professors. I am afraid that I was guilty of this.
3. Nouthetic Counseling and the Problem of Biblicism. “There are many who will say that their counselling is Christian and biblical, but the test comes in evaluating what they actually do when counseling. The issue is whether or not they incorporate other beliefs and practices or not. Nouthetic Counseling is based entirely upon Scripture.”. As this last sentence suggests, Adams approach is characterized by a highly Biblicist approach. Christians are called to be Biblical, but they are not called to be Biblicist. This is because being a Biblicist is unbiblical.
Biblical counseling redirects here. For other forms of counseling that use the Bible, see Christian counseling. Nouthetic counseling (Greek: noutheteo, to admonish) is a form of Evangelical Protestant pastoral counseling that holds that counselling should be based solely upon the Bible and focused upon Christ. Nouthetic counseling is viewed as highly controversial by secular psychologists who believe that it is unethical to counsel that the Bible has the answers for all people of all backgrounds. Some counselors believe that nouthetic counseling can do considerable harm to patients.
ACBC Counselor Certification. The Association of Certified Biblical Counselors certifies biblical counselors. This endorsement is similar to recognition processes associated with disciplines of training in other fields of study that are not regulated by the government. 