Low Cost Tampa Airport Parking. Tampa International Airport is located approximately 6 miles from the Central Business District of Tampa, in the state of Florida, and is an important airport in the United States of America. It is recognised by its IATA code of TPA, and serves around sixteen million passengers per annum. Since the economy car park is located quite far from the terminal, there are free shuttle buses available twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week. Additional Parking Information for Tampa International Airport. Valet parking is available at Tampa Airport at the Blue departure curb-side from 05:30am to 05:30pm.
1 There are different parking options provided at the Tampa International Airport: Valet Parking, Short Term Garage, Long Term Garage, Economy Parking Garage and Lot, and Cell Phone Waiting Lot. 2  Valet Parking has a 24-hour drop off and pick up on Level 5 of Short Term Garage. 1 The Long Term Garage option is adjacent to the Terminal and has a 24-hour operation. 2  Economy Parking Garage and Lot has a shuttle that runs 24 hours a day, every 7 to 10 minutes. 3  The Cell Phone Waiting Lot is where customers can park for fre
Other parking options & fees at Tampa International (t he free Monorail circles the long-term parking garage and connects to the short-term garage via an elevated bridge to stop at four additional stations.) The Sunpass i s available at Short-and Long-term garages & Economy garage & lot. 
There are currently 7,000 long-term parking spaces at the airport. That will increase by more than 30 percent in two to three years after the rental car facility moves to a new standalone location outside of the parking garage. Board members approved an increase in fees ranging from $1 to $5, depending on the garage. The short-term maximum daily rate will climb by $2 to $22, long-term will be $18 a day, the economy garage will be $10 and valet parking will be $30.
The long-term parking closest to Tampa International Airport's terminals is at the airport itself. If you leave your car at this long-term parking garage you can walk to and from the airport, or use the airport monorail, and are guaranteed 24-hour access to your vehicle. You can park here for up to 45 days. Tampa International Airport's long-term parking garage is located adjacent to the airport terminal, just south of the short-term parking garage. The pedestrian walkway in long-term parking is on Level 2, and the monorail can be accessed from Level 5. At the south end of the airport, around Interstate 275, several parking services offer long-term parking options. These lots also afford swift access to Florida State Road 589. A1 Express (a1expressairportparking.com) has parking less than one mile from the Tampa International Airport. You are charged per 24-hour period that your car is in the covered garage, with a two-hour grace period if you return just a bit late on pick-up day
Tampa ranked as one of the lowest priced airports of its size. Current parking fees are $20 for a maximum daily rate in the short-term garage, long-term is $16, the economy garage is $9 and valet parking is $25. Board members approved an increase in fees ranging from $1 to $5, depending on the garage. The short-term maximum daily rate will climb by $2 to $22, long-term will be $18 a day, the economy garage will be $10 and valet parking will be $30.
The Hillsborough County Aviation Authority's governing board on Thursday unanimously approved increasing parking fees at its short-and long-term garages. Parking for less than one hour will still be free. The plan doubles the cost of parking in either garage from $1 per 20 minutes to $2 per 20 minutes. Anyone who stays longer than an hour will have to pay for the first hour — $6 — plus $2 for every 20 minutes after that. Under the new rates, parking in the long-term garage will max out at $16 per day, an increase of $1. Parking in the short-term garage will remain a maximum of $20 per day. Fees for parking in the economy lot near the post office and cellphone lot will also stay the same, $9 per day. The new rates take effect Oct. 1