FastCGI is a binary protocol for interfacing interactive programs with a web server. FastCGI is a variation on the earlier Common Gateway Interface (CGI); FastCGI's main aim is to reduce the overhead associated with interfacing the web server and CGI programs, allowing a server to handle more web page requests at once. Instead of creating a new process for each request, FastCGI uses persistent processes to handle a series of requests. These processes are owned by the FastCGI server, not the
1 Like CGI, FastCGI is not tied to the internal architecture of any Web server and is therefore stable even when server technology changes. 2  An API reflects the internal architecture of a Web server, so when that architecture changes, so does the API. 1 (APIs link application code into the core Web server, which means that a bug in one API-based application can corrupt another application or the core server; a malicious API-based application can, for example, steal key security secrets from another application or the core server.).
Overview. FastCGI for IIS enables popular application frameworks that support the FastCGI protocol to be hosted on the IIS web server in a high-performance and reliable way. Host multiple versions of application frameworks on the same server. FastCGI has very flexible configuration settings that allow hosting of multiple applications frameworks or different versions of the same application framework on the same IIS server.
According to one FastCGI implementor, user requests coming to a Web site and using a specific application program can be handled 3 to 30 times faster using FastCGI. FastCGI is a plug-in to the Web server. You also agree that your personal information may be transferred and processed in the United States, and that you have read and agree to the Terms of Use and the Privacy Policy. Basically, FastCGI is a program that manages multiple CGI requests within a single process, saving many program instructions for each request. Without FastCGI, each instance of a user requesting a service causes the Web server to open a new process that gets control, performs the service, and then is closed. With FastCGI, the overhead for one process is shared among all currently processing requests
Internet Information Services (IIS) 7.0 adds support for the FastCGI protocol, which improves the performance and reliability of popular application frameworks, such as PHP, hosted on an IIS Web server. FastCGI provides a high-performance alternative to the Common Gateway Interface (CGI) protocol, a standard way of interfacing external applications with Web servers. IIS 7 for Windows Server® 2008 and Windows Vista® with Service Pack 1 (SP1) now include a built-in FastCGI component.
FastCGI provides a high-performance alternative to the Common Gateway Interface (CGI), a standard way of interfacing external applications with Web servers that has been supported as part of the IIS feature-set since the very first release. Host multiple versions of application frameworks on the same server. FastCGI has very flexible configuration settings that allow hosting of multiple applications frameworks or different versions of the same application framework on the same IIS server.
To address the scalability shortcomings of CGI, Open Market developed FastCGI and first introduced it in their webserver product in the mid-1990s. Open Market originally developed FastCGI in part as a competitive response to Netscape's proprietary, in-process API (NSAPI) for developing Web applications. Instead of creating a new process for each request, FastCGI uses persistent processes to handle a series of requests. These processes are owned by the FastCGI server, not the web server.
This topic discusses how to enable FastCGI on your IIS 7 Web server. By using FastCGI instead of CGI to run your CGI applications, you can increase reliability and improve performance. For example, PHP traditionally runs on IIS either as an ISAPI extension or as a Common Gateway Interface (CGI) program. To deploy a FastCGI-enabled server. You can use the Web Platform Installer (Web PI) to easily install IIS, and applications that run on IIS. Because the Web PI installs the latest versions of available Web Platform offerings, with just a few simple clicks you can download and install any new tools or updates.