DEFINITION of 'Receivership'. A type of corporate bankruptcy in which a receiver is appointed by bankruptcy courts or creditors to run the company. The receiver may be appointed by a bankruptcy court, as a matter of private proceedings, or by a governing body. The primary responsibility of the receiver is to recoup as much of the unpaid loans as possible. Being in receivership is not an enviable situation for any company.
Definition. State of being under the administration and control of a receiver. Receivership removes the property or business from the control of its owners (stock/shareholders), and the firm's directors lose their powers to the receiver who stops dividend and interest payments. 
Receivership. A court order whereby all the property subject to dispute in a legal action is placed under the dominion and control of an independent person known as a receiver. Pardieu, sire, he suddenly said, I must tell you that there is a receivership of the royal prerogatives vacant, and that I have a nephew. Notre-Dame de Paris by Hugo, Victor View in context. There'll be temporary receiverships, of course, Daylight advised; but they won't bother none or last long.
Receivership is an appointment for the purpose of realising assets or managing the business of a company for the benefit of security holders under the terms of a security, or by a Court. In a receivership assets are realised for the benefit of the secured creditor who made the appointment of a receiver. In a liquidation the assets are realised primarily for the benefit of the unsecured creditors.
A Receivership is a remedy available to secured creditors to recover amounts outstanding under a secured loan in the event the company defaults on its loan payments. The Receiver is appointed to take possession of and sell or liquidate the assets secured by the security agreement in order to repay the outstanding debt. In a Receivership, a secured creditor or the Court may also appoint a Receiver-Manager to operate and manage the business until it is sold as a going concern.
Receivership is an extraordinary remedy, the purpose of which is to preserve property during the time needed to prosecute a lawsuit, if a danger is present that such property will be dissipated or removed from the jurisdiction of the court if a receiver is not appointed. Pardieu, sire, he suddenly said, I must tell you that there is a receivership of the royal prerogatives vacant, and that I have a nephew. Notre-Dame de Paris by Hugo, Victor View in context. There'll be temporary receiverships, of course, Daylight advised; but they won't bother none or last long.
Administrative receivership differs from simple receivership in that an administrative receiver is appointed over all of the assets and undertaking of the company. This means that an administrative receiver can normally only be appointed by the holder of a floating charge. Enforcement is also a significant aspect of the situations where administrative receivership is still permitted – for example, the ability to take control of the entirety of the assets is important in structuring insolvency-remote special purpose companies that issue securities or operate infrastructure projects.
A receivership is a remedy that is authorized by a court’s equity powers. Upon appointment, the Receiver becomes an officer of the court to receive, care for, administer and dispose of property under the orders of the court. 
The receivership remedy is an equitable remedy that emerged in the English Chancery courts, where receivers were appointed to protect real property. Enforcement is also a significant aspect of the situations where administrative receivership is still permitted – for example, the ability to take control of the entirety of the assets is important in structuring insolvency-remote special purpose companies that issue securities or operate infrastructure projects.
Receivership is a process in which a creditor appoints a receiver over one or more of the insolvent companys' assets or properties specified in a legal charge within a secured loan agreement. 