The length of your education depends on your career goals. To get started in a career as an ultrasound tech, you need a minimum of two years at an accredited allied health educational institution. There are schools available both online and offline that are able to provide you with this associate’s degree in sonography.
An ultrasound technician is a very valuable job in the world of health care. Also called a diagnostic medical sonographer, an ultrasound tech uses special machines and equipment that operate on sound waves to determine or diagnose medical problems for patients. To become an ultrasound technician you have to have really good people skills. It requires people in very uncomfortable situations and often in a great deal of pain to put their trust in you. You have to be able to set their minds at ease and help them relax so that you can get a good reading.
1 You can also take a four year program, and graduate with a bachelors degree. 2  Stay away from eight week or six month programs. 3  Not only do they not prepare you adequately for a career as an ultrasound technician, but it will hardly matter as you will not be competitive in the job market. 1 Note that some colleges may require you to complete a Certified Nursing Associate (CNA) course before being accepted into a Diagnostic Medical Sonographer (DMS) program. 2  If you already have a Bachelor’s degree or Associate’s degree and want to become an ultrasound technician, the diploma program may be the best option.
There are many sonography educational paths you can consider. The highest degree you can get directly in sonography is a bachelor’s degree. Bachelor’s degree programs typically take four years to complete, though it depends on your specific program and whether you go to school full time or part time. 
Most ultrasound technicians train through associate's degree programs, although bachelor's degree and certificate programs are also available. Employers often prefer to hire ultrasound technicians who hold professional certification, available in various specialty areas. Certification. State certification or registration as an ultrasound technician is not required, although doing so provides a profession assessment of an individual's skills that employers typically prefer.
Explore Ultrasound Technician Degree Programs. The sonography degree that you pursue depends on your personal interests and job goals. In many cases, an Associate’s Degree is enough to secure a position in this rapidly growing field. Meeting ultrasound degree requirements will ultimately prepare you to complete certification exams through the American Registry for Diagnostic Medical Sonography (ARDMS), the leading credential that hospitals and clinics consider when hiring sonographers/ultrasound technicians.
Training to become an ultrasound technician may be done through a formal education program or through military training. The most common training is an associate's degree program, although there are bachelor's degree and 1-year certificate programs available. Certification. State certification or registration as an ultrasound technician is not required, although doing so provides a profession assessment of an individual's skills that employers typically prefer.
The most that the ARDMS requires from their candidates is a bachelor’s degree (any major) or foreign degree equivalent to a bachelor’s degree in the U.S. or Canada, along with twelve months of full-time clinical ultrasound/vascular experience. Procedures You Need to Master as an Ultrasound Technician/Technologist. As an ultrasound technician, you will likely be part of a rotating staff in a clinic or floor of a hospital, and you will need to work smoothly in various roles.
An Associates Sonography Degree is a blend of coursework with hands-on clinical rotations. Many programs will offer the opportunity to specialize in one particular area of the ultrasound profession, such as General (abdomen, obstetrics and gynecology), Vascular or Cardiac. Meeting ultrasound degree requirements will ultimately prepare you to complete certification exams through the American Registry for Diagnostic Medical Sonography (ARDMS), the leading credential that hospitals and clinics consider when hiring sonographers/ultrasound technicians.