Increase in Humidity. 1  If the amount of water vapor in the air increases while the temperature remains the same, the relative humidity will increase. 2  If it reaches 100%, condensation will occur. 1
Relative humidity is the ratio between how much water vapor is in the air and the maximum amount of water that can be held in the air. The maximum amount of water vapor that air can hold varies with the temperature of the air. As the temperature of the air increases, it is able to retain more water vapor. When the interior air comes in contact with the colder window surface the air temperature drops and it is unable to hold as much water, this causes the excess water to accumulate onto the window surface. Condensation is the accumulation of water vapor changing to liquid water onto a surface. When the interior temperature is warmer than the window surface, there is a chance that condensation will form.
A.) the change in density when it condenses to form a liquid or solid B.) reactions with other atmospheric compounds C.) the release of heat by the formation of hydrogen bonds D.) the release of heat by the breaking of hydrogen bonds E.) the high surface tension of water I'm pretty sure the... A.) the change in density when it condenses to form a liquid or solid. B.) reactions with other atmospheric compounds. C.) the release of heat by the formation of hydrogen bonds. D.) the release of heat by the breaking of hydrogen bonds. E.) the high surface tension of water.
Liquids boil at the temperature at which the vapor pressure is equal to the pressure on the liquid from its surroundings. Raising the pressure on a gas therefore effectively increases the boiling point of the liquid. Suppose that we have water vapor (or steam) in a closed container at 120 o C and 1 atm. 
1 The water vapor concentration increases significantly as the temperature rises, approaching 100% (steam, pure water vapor) at 100 °C. 2  However the difference in densities between air and water vapor would still exist. Water vapor, water vapour or aqueous vapor, is the gaseous phase of water. It is one state of water within the hydrosphere. Water vapor can be produced from the evaporation or boiling of liquid water or from the sublimation of ice.
Key Concepts. 1  Condensation is the process in which molecules of a gas slow down, come together, and form a liquid. 2  When gas molecules transfer their energy to something cooler, they slow down and their attractions cause them to bond to become a liquid. 3  Making water vapor colder increases the rate of condensation. But as the concentration of water molecules increases in the container, the rate of condensation increases. Eventually, the rate of condensation equals the rate of evaporation and the water molecules go back and forth between the liquid and the gas.
1 Condensation is the process in which molecules of a gas slow down, come together, and form a liquid. 2  When gas molecules transfer their energy to something cooler, they slow down and their attractions cause them to bond to become a liquid. 3  Making water vapor colder increases the rate of condensation. But as the concentration of water molecules increases in the container, the rate of condensation increases. Eventually, the rate of condensation equals the rate of evaporation and the water molecules go back and forth between the liquid and the gas.
The change of state from a gas to a liquid is called condensation. A pure substance condenses at a temperature equal to its boiling point. From the graph above, 1  $100^{\circ}\text{C}$ is the boiling point of the liquid. 2  Temperature remains constant at $100^{\circ}\text{C}$ as the liquid is boiling. 3  During the boiling process, liquid and gas exist in equilibrium. 
First, you should understand that the temperature of the air influences the amount of water vapor that can be bound to the molecules of air. Water vapor capacity increases with temperature increase. There are three parcels of air, each in separate containers. Only relative values of moisture and temperature are shown. At low temperatures, the air will hold only two parts of water vapor. As the temperature increases, it will hold 6, then 12 parts of water vapor. Relative humidity decreases as temperature increases. The importance of air temperature to moisture is obvious. At 80°, the air has a relatively low humidity and is relatively dry. As it cools, the humidity increases, reaching its saturation point at 40°.