Similarly, almost all DVDs and DVD players sold in Germany have a region code of 2, and DVDs with a region code of 2 can only be played on DVD players with that same region code. What this means is that if you live in North America and order a DVD from Germany, it probably will not play on your DVD player.
Philips still makes a few DVD players in the USA/Canada that can be made region free. Their DVD players can convert between PAL and NTSC so they could play your DVD. It's very difficult to find BluRay players in the USA/Canada that are region free even if just for DVD.
For example, almost all DVDs and DVD players sold in North America have a region code of 1, and DVDs with a region code of 1 can only be played on DVD players with that same region code.
This means that all DVD players sold in the U.S. are made to region 1 specifications. As a result, region 1 players can only play region 1 discs. That's right, the DVDs themselves are encoded for a specific region.
However, region-free DVD players, which ignore region coding, are also commercially available, and many DVD players can be modified to be region-free, allowing playback of all discs. DVDs may use one code, a combination of codes (multi-region), every code (all region) or no codes (region free).
Unlock your DVD player and make it region free! Your DVD player is limited. Right now, it can only play videos from your region. If you live in the United States, you're limited to playing pricey DVDs from region 1 (U.S. and Canada). And if you live in the United Kingdom, you're trapped in expensive region 2 (Europe).
Re: Purchasing a multi region dvd player in Canada. Expats correct, they say they have never heard of such a thing. You can buy the cheapie player in Walmart that don't say they are region free but are. Think they are made by Diamond.
Almost all commercial DVDs that are sold have what is called a region code (also called regional code), which only allows the DVD to be played on DVD players that have this region code, and the only DVD players that typically do have this region code are those sold in that same region.
All models will play discs in any format including Pal/NTSC/Secam and many of our Region Free Blu-ray Players can actually convert any format to Pal/NTSC/Secam output, allowing you to connect your player to any TV in the world without the need for an external video converter.
It is a common misconception that because a DVD disc is Region Free, it will play on any player in any country. Whilst this is true to a certain extent, the actual video format of the disc also needs to be taken into account. For example, the video standard in the USA is NTSC, and the video standard in Europe is PAL.