Uses. Candesartan is used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). Lowering high blood pressure helps prevent strokes, heart attacks, and kidney problems. Candesartan belongs to a class of drugs called angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs). It works by relaxing blood vessels so blood can flow more easily. This medication is also used to treat heart failure.
Atacand (candesartan cilexetil) is a selective AT 1 subtype angiotensin II receptor antagonist used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension) in adults and children 1 to. Atacand is administered orally in the form of tablets. Drug interactions of Atacand include lithium and NSAIDs. In rare cases, candesartan can cause a condition that results in the breakdown of skeletal muscle tissue, leading to kidney failure. Call your doctor right away if you have unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness especially if you also have fever, unusual tiredness, and dark colored urine.
As with other angiotensin II receptor antagonists, candesartan is indicated for the treatment of hypertension. Results from the CHARM study (early 2000s) demonstrated the morbidity and mortality reduction benefits of candesartan therapy in congestive heart failure. Candesartan cilexetil is metabolised completely by esterases in the intestinal wall during absorption to the active candesartan moieity. The use of a prodrug form increases the bioavailability of candesartan.
Candesartan (rINN) /ˌkaendɨˈsɑrtən/ ˌkændɨˈsɑrtən is an ANGIOTENSIN ii receptor antagonist used mainly for the treatment of. hypertension Candesartan cilexetil is metabolised completely by esterases in the intestinal wall during absorption to the active candesartan moieity. The use of a prodrug form increases the bioavailability of candesartan.
DRUG DESCRIPTION. ATACAND (candesartan cilexetil), a prodrug, is hydrolyzed to candesartan during absorption from the gastrointestinal tract. Candesartan is a selective AT 1 subtype angiotensin II receptor antagonist. Candesartan cilexetil, a nonpeptide, is chemically described as (±)-1-Hydroxyethyl ... Candesartan is a selective AT 1 subtype angiotensin II receptor antagonist. Candesartan cilexetil, a nonpeptide, is chemically described as (±)-1-Hydroxyethyl 2-ethoxy-1-[p-(o-1H-tetrazol-5ylphenyl)benzyl]-7-benzimidazolecarboxylate, cyclohexyl carbonate (ester).
GENERIC NAME: candesartan cilexetil. DRUG CLASS AND MECHANISM: Candesartan cilexetil (candesartan) is a drug used for treating high blood pressure (hypertension). It is in a class of drugs called angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) which includes losartan (Cozaar), valsartan (Diovan), and irbesartan (Avapro). 
Candesartan (rINN) /ˌkaendɨˈsɑrtən/ ˌkændɨˈsɑrtən is an ANGIOTENSIN ii receptor antagonist used mainly for the treatment of. Hypertension the prodrug candesartan cilexetil is marketed AstraZeneca astrazeneca And Takeda, pharmaceuticals commonly under the trade Names, Blopress, Atacand, amias And. ratacand Candesartan cilexetil is metabolised completely by esterases in the intestinal wall during absorption to the active candesartan moieity. The use of a prodrug form increases the bioavailability of candesartan.
The prodrug candesartan cilexetil is marketed by AstraZeneca and Takeda Pharmaceuticals, commonly under the trade names Blopress, Atacand, Amias, and Ratacand. Candesartan cilexetil is metabolised completely by esterases in the intestinal wall during absorption to the active candesartan moieity. The use of a prodrug form increases the bioavailability of candesartan.
Candesartan cilexetil is a white to off-white powder with a molecular weight of 610.67. It is practically insoluble in water and sparingly soluble in methanol. Candesartan cilexetil is a racemic mixture containing one chiral center at the cyclohexyloxycarbonyloxy ethyl ester group. Candesartan is a selective AT 1 subtype angiotensin II receptor antagonist. Candesartan cilexetil, a nonpeptide, is chemically described as (±)-1-Hydroxyethyl 2-ethoxy-1-[p-(o-1H-tetrazol-5ylphenyl)benzyl]-7-benzimidazolecarboxylate, cyclohexyl carbonate (ester).