Answer: One day or less. Explanation: A skilled installer can remove existing carpet, install tack strip lay the carpet, make the necessary cuts, seam and stretch a 500 sf room in one day. I hire skilled installers to ensure this. Top Answer: One day or less (98% of 58 votes). Answer: One day or less. Explanation: A qualified carpet installer would be able to install 500 sq ft in less the a day, no more then 6 hours.
Answer: One day or less. Explanation: The time it takes to install carpet varies by type, & the size of the area covered. ... In an average sized room, around 400 square feet, a professional can complete installation within one day. Top Answer: One day or less (98% of 58 votes). Answer: One day or less. Explanation: A qualified carpet installer would be able to install 500 sq ft in less the a day, no more then 6 hours.
To do it right, without running into problems, I average about 10 - 12 Yards per hour. Throw in an additional a day for me to do a bullnosed staircase. Pattern carpet takes double time to install, for me. But I get pretty anal about patterns. 
A 12ft x 12ft room should take two days with two workers. Laminate flooring is the perfect option for people who are working alone and don't want to remove old flooring. Because the material needs no sanding or finishing, it's possible to finish the job in one day, providing the room isn't too large. Whether you're using tiles or a sheet of vinyl, installing flooring in a 12ft x 15ft room will take about five hours. Preparing your sub-flooring is especially sensitive when installing vinyl because moisture damage like mildew or weakened wood can affect the adhesive.
Getting Ready. Start by giving yourself three days after unpacking the flooring and before laying it to give it time to acclimate to the installation space. This acclimation is necessary to prevent expansion of the moisture-sensitive particleboard core of the boards. 
It All Depends. The amount of time it takes to install carpet depends on the size of the area to be covered, the type of carpeting, how many workers are available and their level of experience. In many cases, actual installation only takes one day, but preparation takes longer. For example, in a 12-by-12-foot room, preparation typically takes one day and installation takes another. Preparation work includes moving furniture, removing old carpeting, inspecting the sub-floor and removing baseboards as necessary. 
Bottom Line. Expect the job to take as long as it takes, as it is not speed but the quality of the fitting which is important. Ask the carpet suppliers to give you an estimated time for fitting the carpet. As a rough guide, you can expect 15 yards of carpet to be laid within one hour. CBL Floors say that, based on experience, the average time to fit carpeting varies from job to job and depends on the size of the team; however, a team can generally lay approximately 15 yards, or 14 meters, of carpet, including underlay,
In an average sized room, around 400 square feet, a professional can complete the job in 10 to 12 hours. Flooring installation Marin County makes sure that your sub-flooring is suitable for hardwood and provides a secure, durable result. We also take care of baseboarding and filling nail holes with putty. Vinyl Flooring may be the least time intensive material to install in your home, but accurate measuring is essential. Whether you're using tiles or a sheet of vinyl, installing flooring in a 12ft x 15ft room will take about five hours. Preparing your sub-flooring is especially sensitive when installing vinyl because moisture damage like mildew or weakened wood can affect the adhesive.
If you're planning on installing flooring in your home, or you're having it done by a professional, remember to figure in preparation, damaged surface repair and the number of workers when you're determining how much time it will take. Whether you're using tiles or a sheet of vinyl, installing flooring in a 12ft x 15ft room will take about five hours. Preparing your sub-flooring is especially sensitive when installing vinyl because moisture damage like mildew or weakened wood can affect the adhesive.
Answer: One day or less. Explanation: one day just carpet installation,maybe 2 day's if furnitutre moving involved and/or removal of old carpeting. Answer: One day or less. Explanation: As long as the carpet is there and no major prep work is needed, one day is all you should need. Answer: One day or less. Explanation: It takes roughly an hour to install 10 square feet of carpeting. So if no furniture has to be moved, it could be done in one day.