In a business context, the Information Technology Association of America has defined information technology as the study, design, development, application, implementation, support or management of computer-based information systems . The term is commonly used as a synonym for computers and computer networks, but it also encompasses other information distribution technologies such as television and telephones.
HIT professionals are usually from Information Technology backgrounds, and provide support for electronic health records and other systems HIM professionals use to secure health information. Health Informatics (HI) is a science that defines how health information is technically captured, transmitted and utilized. Health informatics focuses on information systems, informatics principles, and information technology as it is applied to the continuum of healthcare delivery. 
Technology is a broad term that refers both to artifacts created by humans, such as machines, and the methods used to create those artifacts. More broadly, the word can be used to refer to a way of doing something or a means of organization: for instance, democracy might be considered a social technology. The term comes from the Greek technologia, which is a combination of “techne,” meaning “craft,” and logos, meaning “saying.” As a result, technology might be considered the articulation of a craft. The word is also used to describe the extent to which a society can manipulate its environment.
Learn the Basics of Health Information Technology. The term  health information technology  (health IT) is a broad concept that encompasses an array of technologies to store, share, and analyze health information. More and more, health care providers are using health IT to improve patient care. 
anon314445. Post 44. Information technology deals with industries that provides solutions that are used in managing data and solutions for getting things done through information technology and that comes from the industry. It is a continuous learning process, and innovation, with a lot of things to put in place. These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. In the 1960s and 1970s, the term information technology (IT) was a little known phrase that was used by those who worked in places like banks and hospitals to describe the processes they used to store information.
IT redirects here. For other uses, see It (disambiguation) . Information technology (IT) is the application of computers and telecommunications equipment to store, retrieve, transmit and manipulate data, often in the context of a business or other enterprise. The term is commonly used as a synonym for computers and computer networks, but it also encompasses other information distribution technologies such as television and telephones.
1. Computer Science is the science of computers while Information Technology may or may not use computers. Of course there is a big overlap but in general computer science han … dles the technical working of computers whilst IT is concerned more with information manipulation and the business requirements 2. The basic difference is that information technology is about transmitting information and gathering it, whereas computer science is something related to computers and only computer, such as software. IT people can be considered more of a general management subject 8.
Of course :) 1. Computer Science is the science of computers while Information Technology may or may not use computers. Of course there is a big overlap but in general comput … er science handles the technical working of computers whilst IT is concerned more with information manipulation and the business requirements 2. The basic difference is that information technology is about transmitting information and gathering it, whereas computer science is something related to computers and only computer, such as software. IT people can be considered more of a general management subject 8.
We shall call it information technology (IT).. Their definition consists of three categories: techniques for processing, the application of statistical and mathematical methods to decision-making, and the simulation of higher-order thinking through computer programs. The term is commonly used as a synonym for computers and computer networks, but it also encompasses other information distribution technologies such as television and telephones.
Another good definition for Information Technology is in the International Foundation for Information Technology (IF4IT) Glossary of IT terms and phrases. These 10 facts about space will blow your mind. In the 1960s and 1970s, the term information technology (IT) was a little known phrase that was used by those who worked in places like banks and hospitals to describe the processes they used to store information.