The historical name Indochina has its origins in the French Indochine, a combination of the names of India and China, referring to the location of the territory between those two countries. The countries of mainland Southeast Asia received cultural influence from both India and China to varying degrees. Some cultures, such as those of Cambodia, Laos, Thailand and Malaysia are influenced mainly by India with a smaller influence from China. 
Search for: Cambodia is located in the Indochina peninsula and is bordered by Thailand to the West, Thailand and Laos to the North, Vietnam to the East, and the Gulf of Thailand to the South. 
The country is located on the eastern side of the Indochina Peninsula, which is found in Southeast Asia. Vietnam shares a border with 3 other countries and is located south of China, southeast of Laos and northeast of Cambodia. The South China Sea, part of the Pacific Ocean, is directly to the east of the country.
Cambodia is located on the Asian continent, specifically in the southern portion of the Indochina Peninsula in South-East Asia. It shares borders with Thailand (to the northwest), Laos (northeast), Vietnam (east) and the southwestern portion of the country is bordered by the Gulf of Thailand. 
The part of our planet referred to as Indochina is a geographical region of Southeast Asia. It occupies the easternmost region of the Indochinese Peninsula, on land located directly east of Thailand, and south of China. 
The French Indochinese Union consisted of four protectorates -- Laos, Cambodia, and two parts of Vietnam -- Tonkin and Annam. The third part of Vietnam -- Cochin China -- was a formal colony located in southern Vietnam. Beginning in 1897, the French officially referred to their Southeast Asian empire as Indochina. 
Cambodia Description. Located in the southern portion of the Indochina Peninsula in southeast Asia, the Kingdom of Cambodia can trace its history back to Neolithic times, when it was first inhabited around 2000 BC.
Indochina is the name given to a peninsula in Southeast Asia lying east of India and southwest of China. The name is most commonly used for the portion of the peninsula contai … ning the countries Cambodia, Vietnam and Laos. Aaron McClellan. exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Bobbylick1. Confidence votes 40. Indochina is located in the south eastern area of Asia. It encompasses Burma, Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, Thailand (formally Siam), Singapore and some times peninsular Malaysia.
5. Review questions. Regional Characteristics. The three countries of Cambodia, Laos, and Vietnam represent Indochina, located in Southeast Asia to the south of China and to the east of Thailand. Like much of this part of the world Indochina was colonized by Europeans. 