Wash it out in the morning and use a fine comb to comb out any dead eggs. If needed, repeat 7-10 days later. If you or your kids end up with a head lice problem, you don't necessarily need to invest in expensive and harsh shampoos to solve the problem. A jar of mayonnaise can do the trick.
This will suffocate the lice and loosen the eggs/nits from the hair shaft. After that wash it out with your favorite shampoo, (to help get the oil or mayonnaise out of your hair you can also rinse your hair with vinegar) thoroughly dry your hair and then use the lice comb to comb out the lice and nits.
Mayonnaise is a popular treatment for getting rid of head lice. It is affordable and safe. However, mayonnaise does not remove nits, the eggs laid by head lice. If you use mayonnaise to kill head lice, you will have to use another method, such as combing with a fine-toothed comb, to remove nits.
Comb out the lice with a nit comb. This step helps to hasten the treatment process if you're using a pediculicide, but you can also get rid of lice using a nit comb alone. Nit combs are handy tools that are specially designed to pull out nits (eggs) and dead lice as they are combed through the hair.
Leave the mayonnaise on for two hours to smother the lice and developed eggs. Then, remove the shower cap and throw it away, both of you wash your hands good with soap, and shampoo the hair thoroughly. It may take two or more shampoos to get the hair clean. You can use Vaseline if you don't have any mayonnaise.
2. The vinegar contained in mayonnaise will not play any role in killing head lice eggs, as its concentration is far too low. So if you choose mayonnaise as a home remedy for head lice, expect to only get rid of adult lice and nymphs. To kill the eggs, you’ll need to apply a vinegar lice treatment.
To get rid of head lice, you should get the normal treatment. Mayonnaise will only prevent the lice from coming back because of the oily ingredients. But if you do use the mayonnaise treatment you should use Hellmans.