What does Heidi mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Heidi is of German origin. The meaning of Heidi is noble kind. It is also of English and Swiss origin, where its meaning is noble. 
A pet form of Adalheid (noble one) and Hildegard (battle protector), Heidi is also bestowed as an independent given name. It became well known internationally from Johanna Spyri's famous story Heidi.. A nickname for Adelheid (the German form of Adelaide), this was never used as an independent name until the publication of Johanna Spyri's novel Heidi in 1880.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Heidi. Heidi is the mainly Swiss pet form of the German name Adelheid (from the French Adelaide). Adélaïde adelheid comes from The germanic “elements” adal ‘meaning’ noble “and” heid ‘meaning, kind, sort’ – type Therefore heidi essentially comes from a name that ‘means the noble’. one 
Meanings and history of the name Heidi : | Edit. A nickname for Adelheid (the German form of Adelaide), this was never used as an independent name until the publication of Johanna Spyri's novel Heidi in 1880. The heroine of this book was originally named Adelheid, after her mother
Origin of the name Heidi: A pet form of Adalheid (noble one) and Hildegard (battle protector), Heidi is also bestowed as an independent given name. It became well known internationally from Johanna Spyri's famous story Heidi.. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. A nickname for Adelheid (the German form of Adelaide), this was never used as an independent name until the publication of Johanna Spyri's novel Heidi in 1880.
Baby names meanings search results: The name Heidi is a baby girl name. The name Heidi comes from the German origin. In German The meaning of the name Heidi is: Noble. The German form of Adelaide. Famous bearer: heroine of Johanna Spyri's classic children's novel 'Heidi'. 
Other origins for the name Heidi include-French, German, German.The name Heidi is most often used as a girl name or female name. French Name Meaning-Variant of Adelaide: Nobility. French form of the Old German Adalheidis, a compound of athal (noble) and haida (hood). Adelaide, the capital of South Australia, was named after Queen Adelaide, 19th century King William IVs consort.
French Meaning: The name Heidi is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Heidi is: Nobility. French form of the Old German Adalheidis, a compound of 'athal' (noble) and 'haida' (hood). Adelaide, the capital of South Australia, was named after Queen Adelaide, 19th century King William IV's consort.
Meaning of Heidi. French name. In French, the name Heidi means-Variant of Adelaide: Nobility. French form of the Old German Adalheidis, a compound of athal (noble) and haida (hood). Adelaide, the capital of South Australia, was named after Queen Adelaide, 19th century King William IVs consort.. French Name Meaning
Heidi /hei-di/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced HYE-dee. It is of Old German origin, and the meaning of Heidi is exalted nature. Short form of Adelaide or Adelheid. Literary: the name of a girl of the Swiss Alps in Johanna Spyri's beloved children's novel Heidi. Kreatif forms: Heidihy, Heihi, Hidi. 