Now we explore what hormones are secreted by the adenohypophysis (as a result of the Releasing Hormones secreted by the hypothalamus). These releasing hormones above cause the adenohypophysis to release the following 6 hormones: 1  Growth Hormone. 2  Prolactin. 3  Thyrotropin (Thyroid Stimulating Hormone; TSH). 4  A dreno C ortico T ropin H ormone (ACTH). 5  Luteinizing Hormone (LH). 6  Follicle Stimulating Hormone (FSH). 
Tropic hormones made and secreted by the anterior pituitary include: Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) - stimulates the thyroid gland. Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH or corticotropin) - stimulates the adrenal cortex. Luteinizing hormone (LH) - stimulates the release of steroid hormones in the ovary and testes. The release of tropic hormones is controlled by a class of hypothalamic hormones called releasing hormones, produced in the hypothalamus. For example, Luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LHRH) from the hypothalamus stimulates the release of LH from the anterior pituitary.
Tropic hormones from the anterior pituitary include: 1  Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH or thyrotropin) – stimulates the thyroid gland to make and release thyroid hormone. 2  Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH or corticotropin) – stimulates the adrenal cortex to release glucocorticoids. The term tropic is from Ancient Greek τροπικός (tropikos), tropikós in the sense of or pertaining to a turn or, change meaning causing a, change; affecting this is the same origin as tropic and. Trope this should not be confused with, trophic as in-similar sounding trophic – hormone the words and concepts are both. unrelated
(January 2013). Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH), also known as luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) and luliberin, as well as gonadorelin (INN), is a trophic peptide hormone responsible for the release of follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) from the anterior pituitary. At the pituitary, GnRH stimulates the synthesis and secretion of the gonadotropins, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), and luteinizing hormone (LH). These processes are controlled by the size and frequency of GnRH pulses, as well as by feedback from androgens and estrogens.
Print | Email article to a friend | Last updated: January 07, 2015. Luteinising hormone is produced by the pituitary gland and is one of the main hormones that control the reproductive system. Alternative names for luteinising hormone Interstitial cell stimulating hormone; luteinizing hormone; lutropin; LH. What is luteinising hormone? Luteinising hormone, like follicle stimulating hormone, is a gonadotrophic hormone produced and released by cells in the anterior pituitary gland. 
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Tropic hormones are anterior pituitary-secreted hormones that regulate the activity of various endocrine glands. One example is the thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) (produced by the anterior pituitary) and stimulates the thyroid gland to secrete thyroid hormones. The release of tropic hormones is controlled by a class of hypothalamic hormones called releasing hormones, produced in the hypothalamus. For example, Luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LHRH) from the hypothalamus stimulates the release of LH from the anterior pituitary.
When we look at hormones that have other endocrine glands as their target we call them tropic hormones. The four tropic hormones of the anterior pituitary gland are: follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), luteinizing hormone (LH), adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH). Prolactin is a hormone that stimulates milk production after childbirth. The four remaining hormones are tropic hormones, which means that they are hormones that have other endocrine glands as their target. The four tropic hormones of the anterior pituitary gland can be remembered with the acronym F-L-A-T.
Most tropic hormones are produced and secreted by the anterior pituitary. The hypothalamus secretes tropic hormones that target the anterior pituitary, and the thyroid gland secretes thyroxine, which targets the hypothalamus and therefore can be considered a tropic hormone. The term tropic is from Ancient Greek τροπικός (tropikos), tropikós in the sense of or pertaining to a turn or, change meaning causing a, change; affecting this is the same origin as tropic and. Trope this should not be confused with, trophic as in-similar sounding trophic – hormone the words and concepts are both. unrelated
1 The anterior pituitary produces 6 important hormones: 2  Thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH), as its name suggests, is a tropic hormone responsible for the stimulation of the thyroid gland. 3  Adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) stimulates the adrenal cortex, the outer part of the adrenal gland, to produce its hormones. Hormone specificity explains how each hormone can have specific effects in widespread parts of the body. Many hormones produced by the endocrine system are classified as tropic hormones. A tropic hormone is a hormone that is able to trigger the release of another hormone in another gland.