churn. n. 1. A vessel or device in which cream or milk is agitated to separate the oily globules from the caseous and serous parts, used to make butter. 2. churn. 1. a container or machine in which cream or milk is agitated to make butter. 2. any of various similar machines, as for mixing beverages. 3. to agitate in order to make into butter: to churn cream.
Churn rate (sometimes called attrition rate), in its broadest sense, is a measure of the number of individuals or items moving out of a collective group over a specific period of time. It is one of two primary factors that determine the steady-state level of customers a business will support. Viewing churn on a customer count basis is an indicator of customer satisfaction. Another common way to look at churn is measuring revenue churn. Revenue churn is the monetary amount of recurring revenue lost in a period divided by the total revenue at the beginning of the period.
The term “churn” is said to be borrowed from a procedure involved in processing dairy products and butter production. The term “churn” is most commonly used in businesses that involve a subscriber base like those of telecommunication companies and Internet service providers. In these companies, churn specifically points to subscribers that discontinue their services and switch to other providers
Full Definition of CHURN. : a vessel for making butter in which milk or cream is agitated in order to separate the oily globules from the watery medium. See churn defined for English-language learners. See churn defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. Full Definition of CHURN. transitive verb. 1. : to agitate (milk or cream) in a churn in order to make butter. 2. b: to make (as foam) by so doing. 3. : to make (the account of a client) excessively active by frequent purchases and sales primarily in order to generate commissions. intransitive verb
DEFINITION of 'Churn Rate'. The percentage of subscribers to a service that discontinue their subscription to that service in a given time period. In order for a company to expand its clientele, its growth rate (i.e. its number of new customers) must exceed its churn rate. BREAKING DOWN 'Churn Rate'. For example, if 1 out of every 20 subscribers to a high-speed Internet connection discontinued his or her connection every year, the churn rate for that Internet provider would be 5%. Churn rate is an important consideration in the telephone and cell phone services industry
In this context the term “churn” is also referred to as the “churn rate” or “turnover rate” which basically measures how many of the company’s subscribers discontinue with their subscription plans and try out other companies or networks. The term “churn” is most commonly used in businesses that involve a subscriber base like those of telecommunication companies and Internet service providers.
vs. SecurActive Performance Vision. Churn rate is a measure of customer or employee attrition, and is defined as the number of customers who discontinue a service or employees who leave a company during a specified time period divided by the average total number of customers or employees over that same time period. 
Churn rate, as it relates to mobile network carriers, is the percentage of subscribers in a given time frame that cease to use the company's services for one reason or another. It is used as an indicator of the health of a company's subscriber base. The lower the churn rate, the better the outlook is for the company. For example, if a large U.S. carrier had 100 million subscribers at the end of the year, and a churn rate of 2%, it would mean that 2,000,000 of the carrier's subscribers left its service during that period.