When hiring a roof inspector, you have two major options. The first is to hire a roofing company. Often, professional roofers will provide free estimates. The downside is that they may exaggerate problems with your roof in order to provide themselves with a little job security. Your other option is to hire a professional roof inspection company, which might charge $200 to $400. You should receive a full report on all aspects of your roof, from the shingles and trusses to the vent caps and drip edges, including any problems or potential problems that might arise. In the case of roof inspection, this means climbing on top of your house once every spring and fall and checking for signs of damage. And for those homeowners who suffer from acrophobia or a fear of heights a roof inspection done from the ground with a pair of binoculars is better than nothing.
1 It is a popular choice for larger houses of about 3,000 square feet. 2  Cost: A 2,000 square foot home will cost from $17,000 to $84,000 to roof in slate. 3  If 3,000 square feet or more, cost can range from $27,000 to $120,000, depending on the site location and the complexity of the job. 1 Cost: A DIY asphalt roof installation on a standard ranch-style house costs from $680 to $3,700, depending on the size of the roof and the quality of the materials. 2  Professional installation can cost between $1,700 and $8,400.
Most roof inspectors will have a flat rate that they charge for a standard inspection, but that rate may fluctuate depending on the size of your home, slope of your roof, or type of roof you have. Infrared roof inspections are used when an inspector cannot access the roof. A roof inspector does not need to remove any part of your roof. They are trained to correctly assess the lifespan of the roof visually. When a roof inspector cannot physically get to a place on your roof, they may use binoculars instead.
1 Cost: A 2,000 square foot home will cost from $17,000 to $84,000 to roof in slate. 2  If 3,000 square feet or more, cost can range from $27,000 to $120,000, depending on the site location and the complexity of the job. 1 Cost: A DIY asphalt roof installation on a standard ranch-style house costs from $680 to $3,700, depending on the size of the roof and the quality of the materials. 2  Professional installation can cost between $1,700 and $8,400.
That way you pay for the inspections you need and nothing else. A basic home inspection will cost between $250 and $375 for an average size home, without additional inspections. If your property has more than 4000 square feet, your home inspection cost will be a little higher. Because our inspections come with The $10,000 Guarantee and other important benefits, we are confident that you will find our home inspection costs more than reasonable in comparison. Be sure to check our promotions – we often provide these insurance inspections free of charge with a buyer inspection. Wind Mitigation Inspection Cost: This is another way to save on your home owners insurance premium. We charge a minimum of $50 for this inspection, which many people have saved in the 1st year.
20 x 2 = 40 rtm less our Standard 30 rtm that is included in our Standard Roof Inspection Service Fee = 10 rtm extra outside of the Standard 30 rtm x additional Travel Fee of $2.00 per rtm = an additional $20.00 is added to our Standard Roof Inspection Service Fee listed above. Standard Amount of Time-for us to perform our Roof Inspection Service and to hand write our Roof Inspection Report is about 30 minutes or less. If additional time is required to perform our Roof Inspection Service our rate is $160.00 per man-hour for any time over the first 30 minutes billed at quarter hour increments.
but it s important to know how much a roof inspection will cost so you won t be surprised by the bill let s start with some factors that can affect the cost of a roof inspection in 2013 the first is the type of property and roof single family residential properties tend to be the least expensive to inspect because they re small and typically have simple roofs if the roof does need repairs the roofer can offer a free estimate make sure to get estimates from several roofers to get a broad idea of the fairest price commercial properties can be more expensive with inspections costing between $ 300 and $ 500 this is due to the increased size and complexity of the job
The cost to hire a roof inspector depends on a few key factors, but the average roof inspection cost is $617 with most roofing inspections ranging in price from $488 to $746. National Hire a Roof Inspector Costs. Cost to Hire a Roof Inspector. The roof of a home is an essential part of the building's structure. Not only does the roof protect everything inside the home, but it also helps protect the walls and foundation from the ravages of rain, ice, snow and wind.
A roof inspection may be a valuable thing to have performed every few years throughout the lifespan of your roof. A roof inspection is a way of determining the level of wear and tear on a roof, how much life it has left in it, and if there is a need for repair currently or soon in the future. A roof inspector does not need to remove any part of your roof. They are trained to correctly assess the lifespan of the roof visually. When a roof inspector cannot physically get to a place on your roof, they may use binoculars instead.