Language. Tahitian, the indigenous language originally of Tahiti and the other Society Islands, is widely spoken by the local Polynesians. Many residents of the Tuamotu Archipelago also speak Puamotuan, a dialect similar to Tahitian, and those in the Marquesas have their own language, known as Marquesasan. 
The languages of Polynesia (such as Maori, Tahitian, Tongan, Samoan and Hawaiian), the language of the tiny island of Rotuma to the north of Fiji, and of course their speakers, all originated in Fiji more than 3000 years ago. These relationships can be clearly seen in the following table of selected words. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The Polynesian languages are a language family spoken in geographical Polynesia and on a patchwork of Outliers from south central Micronesia, to small islands off the northeast of the larger islands of the Southeast Solomon Islands and sprinkled through Vanuatu. Many Polynesian languages have been greatly affected by European colonization. Both Māori and Hawaiian, for example, have lost much ground to English, and only in the last twenty years have they made progress towards restoration.
Tahitian (autonym Reo Tahiti or Reo Mā'ohi) is a Polynesian language, spoken mainly in the Society Islands in French Polynesia. It belongs to the Eastern Polynesian group. Tahitian was first transcribed from the oral spoken language into writing by missionaries of the London Missionary Society in the early 19th century.
The official languages of Tahiti and her islands are French and Tahitian. Although French is used in schools and business, the Tahitian language is still preferred by most islanders in their homes. English is well spoken in the tourist areas and resorts. Learn some Tahitian words from the Tahitian language if you want to make a good impression with the locals. Before you fly off on your Bora Bora vacation have some fun memorizing a few useful Tahiti French phrases as well.
Tahiti is part of French Polynesian Islands. According to the CIA World Fact Book the languages spoken are: French 61.1% (official), Polynesian 31.4% (official), Asian languages 1.2%, other 0.3%, unspecified 6% (2002 census). Tahitians speak Tahitian and French. See the related link below for more information. in Tahiti they speak engish and french. but mostly french. Answer Tahitians speak a Polynesian language similar to native Hawaiian, as well as French and English.
There are Two Polynesia(S). Both of them are in the Pacific and are a group of islands, like Fiji, Samoa, Tonga, Cook Islands, and many more: -One of them Do Not Speak French, they speak their own language, and they're a Group of 1,000 islands. -Then, there's Another One: French Polynesia, located in the same place than the other one, but governed by France, so they speak French. This Polynesia is Much Smaller and considered a Country ruled by and part of France. It's most famous island is Tahiti.
The most prominent of these are Tahitian, Sāmoan, Tongan, Māori and Hawaiian. Because the Polynesian islands were settled relatively recently and because internal linguistic diversification only began around 2,000 years ago, their languages retain strong commonalities. Many Polynesian languages have been greatly affected by European colonization. Both Māori and Hawaiian, for example, have lost much ground to English, and only in the last twenty years have they made progress towards restoration.
Context [edit]. Tahitian is the most prominent of the indigenous Polynesian languages spoken in French Polynesia (reo mā’ohi). The latter also include: 1  Marquesan, spoken by about 8,000 people in the Marquesas Islands, with two sub-divisions, North Marquesan (ʻeo ʻenata) and South Marquesan (ʻeo ʻenata). Tahitian was first transcribed from the oral spoken language into writing by missionaries of the London Missionary Society in the early 19th century.
Best Answer: Ia Orana, French & Tahitian are both official languages in French Polynesia. Beside, each archipelago has its own language (namely Paumotu for the Tuamotu islands). Finally, it will not be hard to find people fluent in english... Regards. 