Navitaire gives you more opportunity to tap into ancillary revenue sources. Navitaire is already the recognized leader in direct sales, and our advanced Travel Commerce system offers connections to dozens of other suppliers. With Navitaire, you can select the right distribution channels, connect to as many business partners as you want, work with them on your own terms, and take new services to market—all with unprecedented speed and ease.
Overview [edit]. Navitaire is a subsidiary of Accenture that provides technology services to the airline and rail industries. Its headquarters are in Minneapolis and it operates offices in London, Manila, Salt Lake City, and Sydney. It has data centers in Minneapolis, Salt Lake City, and Sydney. The company typically works with low-cost carriers (LCC) and hybrid airlines and is the leading passenger service system provider for the LCC market. As of 2014, Navitaire serves 43% of the top 100 LCCs, and 47% of the top 30 LCCs as measured by seats sold per week.
Navitaire primarily offers systems for passenger reservations, travel commerce, ancillary revenue and merchandising, as well as revenue accounting and revenue management to airlines and rail companies. The company typically works with low-cost carriers (LCC) and hybrid airlines and is the leading passenger service system provider for the LCC market. As of 2014, Navitaire serves 43% of the top 100 LCCs, and 47% of the top 30 LCCs as measured by seats sold per week.
By. Amadeus IT Holding SA on Wednesday said it agreed to pay $830 million for Accenture PLC’s Navitaire unit, giving the Spanish travel technology provider a bigger foothold in the low-cost airline market, notably in Asia. 
Amadeus has agreed to acquire Navitaire, a wholly owned subsidiary of Accenture (NYSE: ACN) that provides technology and business solutions to the airline industry, for US$830 million. The alliance combines Amadeus’ and Navitaire’s industry solutions and experience with Accenture’s aviation expertise and global capabilities in technology, analytics, cloud, mobility and operations.
To be successful today, you need to move quickly and nimbly in response to market demands. That requires flexibility in your systems and business model — and highly efficient operations. Navitaire understands — and delivers. With Navitaire, you can select the right distribution channels, connect to as many business partners as you want, work with them on your own terms, and take new services to market—all with unprecedented speed and ease.
Remove barriers, streamline operations, expand revenues and differentiate yourself with Navitaire. With more than 50 customers worldwide, including many of the world’s most successful hybrid and low-cost airlines, Navitaire has the experience and expertise to help you take your business to the next level. With Navitaire, you can select the right distribution channels, connect to as many business partners as you want, work with them on your own terms, and take new services to market—all with unprecedented speed and ease.
Amadeus IT Holding SA agreed to buy Accenture Plc’s Navitaire for $830 million as the flight-bookings provider seeks to add products that target low-cost airlines in its largest acquisition. The deal is expected to be completed by the end of 2015 and as many as 550 Navitaire employees will be transfered to Amadeus. Amadeus’s main business is under pressure after Deutsche Lufthansa AG, Europe’s largest carrier by revenue, last month said it will impose a 16-euro ($18) charge on external reservations.