Also, the non-antibacterial hand soap did remove more than 50% of the bacteria. See the table and graph below. My first hypothesis was that anti-bacterial hand soap would remove more bacteria than non-anti-bacterial hand soap. The results indicate that this hypothesis should be rejected, because the amount of bacteria on the blood agar plates with antibacterial soap was greater than the plates with non-antibacterial testing.
Antibacterial soap is any cleaning product to which active antimicrobial ingredients have been added. These chemicals kill bacteria and microbes, but are no more effective at deactivating viruses than any other kind of soap or detergent, and they also kill nonpathogenic bacteria. According to the FDA, there is no evidence that antibacterial products are more effective than soap and water, and products which contain triclosan do not show that they reduce the transmission of respiratory or gastrointestinal infections.
Therefore, the type of soap used does have an effect on bacterial growth and the soap most effective at preventing this bacterial growth is Dawn dish soap. Harmful bacteria is the reason why we have soaps. Soaps are needed and used regularly to prevent the spread of harmful bacteria and infectious disease. The independent variable in this experiment is the type of soap used which will be Dawn dish soap, Mr. Clean, Softsoap hand soap, and Purell hand sanitizer.
Soap is made up of fatty acids (derived from oils or fats) and a base (like sodium hydroxide salt). The soap molecules have hydrophobic (fatty acid chain) and hydrophilic (salt) ends. This combination allows soap molecules to suspend the oils, dirt and germs that are washed away when you soap up. Click Here to return to the search form. Soap molecules are both hydrophilic (likes water and goes into solution) and hydrophobic (repels water). Bacteria (and dirt and oils) get bound to the hydrophobic end of the soap molecules and the hydrophilic end helps it get washed away with water.
Transcript of Effect of soaps on bacterial growth. The effect of different types of soaps on bacterial growth To determine the effects of various types of soap on bacterial growth and to identify which is the most effective. Harmful bacteria is the reason why we have soaps. Soaps are needed and used regularly to prevent the spread of harmful bacteria and infectious disease. The independent variable in this experiment is the type of soap used which will be Dawn dish soap, Mr. Clean, Softsoap hand soap, and Purell hand sanitizer.
No one wants to get sick! It is important to protect people from diseases. My first hypothesis was that anti-bacterial hand soap would remove more bacteria than non-anti-bacterial hand soap. My second hypothesis was that non-anti-bacterial hand soap would remove at least 50% of bacteria from the washed hands. My first hypothesis was that anti-bacterial hand soap would remove more bacteria than non-anti-bacterial hand soap. The results indicate that this hypothesis should be rejected, because the amount of bacteria on the blood agar plates with antibacterial soap was greater than the plates with non-antibacterial testing.
When you take the greasy finger and insert it in a soultion containing foam made out of soap water, the following reaction takes place. H20-- S OA P --OIL-- S OA P --H20. As you can see the oil is completely surrounded by water and soap, which aids in complete removal of the oil based dirt after thorough rinsing. The oil has no place to hold onto other than water and soap right. Now coming to the experiment. Soap molecules have two special sites on their structure. one is a hydrophylic end [ S ]- can and will stick to water molecule. second one is a hydrophobic [ P ](can't stick to water molecule or liphophilic(can and will stick to oil molecule) end. Most dirt is oil based.
Soap cannot remove the bacterial cell that has stuck on to the skin using various mechanisms that it has unlike dirt which is simple stuck there because it is greasy.Grease or oil is stuck to the skin because of the laws of phsyics, surface tension. Soap molecules have two special sites on their structure. one is a hydrophylic end [ S ]- can and will stick to water molecule. second one is a hydrophobic [ P ](can't stick to water molecule or liphophilic(can and will stick to oil molecule) end. Most dirt is oil based.
In contrast, few studies have been published on the effect of hand hygiene on bacterial contamination of hands in the community. Hoque and colleagues found that a wide variety of hand cleansing means in poor settings (soap, ash, mud) are effective in reducing the contamination with coliform bacteria on hands [ 6, 7 ]. Although handwashing with water alone reduced the presence of bacteria on hands substantially, the study supports the policy of many current hand hygiene campaigns promoting the use of soap [ 18, 19 ].
Figure 1 shows the effect of handwashing with soap or water only on contamination, compared to no handwashing. Overall, handwashing with water alone reduced the prevalence of bacteria substantially. Handwashing with soap was more effective in reducing the prevalence of contamination and specifically of Enterococcus spp. Although handwashing with water alone reduced the presence of bacteria on hands substantially, the study supports the policy of many current hand hygiene campaigns promoting the use of soap [ 18, 19 ].