Recovery Time. While each person will recover from hip surgery at a different rate, many doctors will advise you to allow 10-12 weeks before returning to light duty work or office jobs. Returning to work time is longer if your job requires a lot of standing, walking or physical activity. 
Usually, people do not spend more than 3 to 5 days in the hospital after hip replacement surgery. Full recovery from the surgery takes about 3 to 6 months, depending on the type of surgery, your overall health, and the success of your rehabilitation. This publication contains general information about hip replacement. It describes what a hip replacement is, who should have it, and alternatives to surgery. If surgery is required, it explains what the surgery involves, recovery, and
Generally speaking, hip replacement patients do recover sooner than knee replacement patients, for example. It should be noted, however, that recovery time for a total hip replacement can differ vastly from patient to patient. Some patients may take 6 months to recover; while others may recover in just 4 weeks. Adapted by MNT from original media release. Rate this article (click stars to rate). Recovery time is one of the most common questions posed to specialists. There are many factors that can contribute to your recovery time from this procedure, but typically patients can hope to return to normal life activities within 1 to 6 months.
The average short-term recovery time for a total hip replacement is 4 to 6 weeks. Long-term recovery involves the complete healing of surgical wounds and internal soft tissues. When a patient can return to work and the activities of daily living, they are on the way to achieving the full term of recovery. On days 1 or 2, most total hip replacement patients are given a walker to stabilize them. By the third day after the surgery, most patients can go home. Short-term recovery also involves getting off major pain killers and having a full night's sleep without pills.
Generally speaking, hip replacement patients do recover sooner than knee replacement patients, for example. It should be noted however, that recovery time for a total hip replacement can differ vastly from patient to patient. Some patients may recover in 6 to 8 months; while others may require a longer recovery time. To be more specific, health care providers refer to a patient’s hip replacement surgery recovery time and rehab into two segments – short-term and long-term.
Most patients undergoing total hip replacement surgery want to know when they'll be able to return to their normal life. Recovery time is a common question posed to specialists and non-specialists alike. On days 1 or 2, most total hip replacement patients are given a walker to stabilize them. By the third day after the surgery, most patients can go home. Short-term recovery also involves getting off major pain killers and having a full night's sleep without pills.
More Hip Articles & FAQs. Perhaps the most common questions patients have about hip replacement are regarding the recovery process and recovery time. There is no definite answer, as each individual’s situation differs significantly from anyone else’s, but typically patients return to normal activity within 3-6 months. To be more specific, health care providers refer to a patient’s hip replacement surgery recovery time and rehab into two segments – short-term and long-term.
About six to eight weeks after surgery, you'll have a follow-up appointment with your surgeon to make sure your hip is healing properly. If recovery is progressing well, most people resume their normal activities by this time — even if in a limited fashion. 
It should be noted, however, that recovery time for a total hip replacement can differ vastly from patient to patient. Some patients may take 6 months to recover; while others may recover in just 4 weeks. About Bonesmart.org. On days 1 or 2, most total hip replacement patients are given a walker to stabilize them. By the third day after the surgery, most patients can go home. Short-term recovery also involves getting off major pain killers and having a full night's sleep without pills.