Top of a cellular radio tower. A cellular network or mobile network is a communications network where the last link is wireless. The network is distributed over land areas called cells, each served by at least one fixed-location transceiver, known as a cell site or base station. In a cellular network, each cell uses a different set of frequencies from neighboring cells, to avoid interference and provide guaranteed bandwidth within each cell. When joined together these cells provide radio coverage over a wide geographic area.
Cellular respiration describes the metabolic reactions and processes that take place in a cell or across the cell membrane to obtain biochemical energy from fuel molecule s and the release of the cells ' waste products. Cellular Respiration. The term cellular respiration refers to the biochemical pathway by which cells release energy from the chemical bonds of food molecule s and provide that energy for the essential processes of life. All living cells must carry out cellular r
The site for aerobic cellular respiration-where the majority of ATP is produced-is the mitochondria. However, many organisms (prokaryotes) do not have mitochondria-and … it is still possible to produce ATP for the cell's energy needs without them. I had the same question for Biology and I found this in my book, the three major types of cellular work is Chemical Work, Mechanical Work, and Transport Work.
A cellular telephone is not to be confused with a cordless telephone (which is simply a phone with a very short wireless connection to a local phone outlet). The first cellular telephone for commercial use was approved by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in 1983. 
The cell, or work cell, has roots in group technology, which seeks to align process flows by families of component parts or, sometimes, families of target customers (A primary reference for this discussion on cellular manufacturing comes from a 770-page book by Hyer and Wemmerloev wemmerlöv devoted to the. topic The cellular mode of process organization is in contrast to the functional, or “job-shop,” form, which “groups similar equipment” (e.g. lathes, mills, drills etc.) “into functionally specialized units in order to manufacturing a variety of dissimilar parts that may follow highly variable routings.
DEFINITION of 'Work Cell'. The logical and strategic arrangement of resources in a business environment, organized so as to improve process flow, increase efficiency and eliminate wastage. The concept of work cells is based on the platform of lean manufacturing, which focuses on value-creation for the end customer and reduction of wastage. Work cells are typically found in the manufacturing and office environments
Cellular respiration. Cellular Respiration. The term cellular respiration refers to the biochemical pathway by which cells release energy from the chemical bonds of food molecule s and provide that energy for the essential processes of life. All living cells must carry out cellular respiration.
GSM network architecture. The most common example of a cellular network is a mobile phone (cell phone) network. A mobile phone is a portable telephone which receives or makes calls through a cell site (base station), or transmitting tower. Radio waves are used to transfer signals to and from the cell phone. In a cellular network, each cell uses a different set of frequencies from neighboring cells, to avoid interference and provide guaranteed bandwidth within each cell. When joined together these cells provide radio coverage over a wide geographic area.
Cellular manufacturing, a model for workplace design, is an integral part of just-in-time manufacturing and lean manufacturing, with additional applications in administrative processes. The cellular mode of process organization is in contrast to the functional, or “job-shop,” form, which “groups similar equipment” (e.g. lathes, mills, drills etc.) “into functionally specialized units in order to manufacturing a variety of dissimilar parts that may follow highly variable routings.
Full Definition of CELL PHONE. : a portable usually cordless telephone for use in a cellular system. See cell phone defined for English-language learners. See cell phone defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 