A dryad (/ˈdraɪ.aed/ ; æd: GREEK, δρυάδες .: SING) δρυάς is a tree, nymph or tree, spirit In greek. mythology These were the hamadryads who were an integral part of their trees, such that if the tree died, the hamadryad associated with it died as well. For these reasons, dryads and the Greek gods punished any mortals who harmed trees without first propitiating the tree-nymphs.
Dryad. A dryad is a tree nymph, that is a female spirit of a tree, in Greek mythology. In Greek drys signifies oak. Thus, dryads are specifically the nymphs of oak trees, though the term has come to be used for all tree nymphs in general. Such deities are very much overshadowed by the divine figures defined through poetry and cult, Walter Burkert remarked of Greek nature deities.
When your only tool is a hammer, every problem looks like a nail. (English proverb). With a spade of gold and a hoe of silver even the mountains rock and sway. (Albanian proverb). Lamb in the spring, snow in the winter.. (Armenian proverb). 
A dryad (/ˈdraɪ.aed/ ; æd: GREEK, δρυάδες .: SING) δρυάς is a tree, nymph or tree, spirit In greek. Mythology In greek drys signifies.. Oak, thus dryads are specifically the nymphs of oak, trees though the term has come to be used for all tree nymphs in. general These were the hamadryads who were an integral part of their trees, such that if the tree died, the hamadryad associated with it died as well. For these reasons, dryads and the Greek gods punished any mortals who harmed trees without first propitiating the tree-nymphs.
We’re going to start off this blog with a couple of basic posts explaining what Dryad and DryadLINQ are. I’m going to start by introducing Dryad, and Yuan will follow on with DryadLINQ. Dryad is an execution engine that is optimized for certain types of distributed computation. Dryad has been doing the heavy-lifting for all of Bing’s data-mining since mid-2006, these days mostly programmed using a language called SCOPE that the Bing team developed. It has also spread to a lot of smaller clusters inside Microsoft, used for tasks like botnet detection, computational biology and computer vision.
Dryad. The forest is a place teeming with life, and therefore, energy and magic. The natural results of this abundance are races of spirits, such as the wood nymphs: dryads and hamadryads. 
A dryad (/ˈdraɪ.aed/ ; æd: GREEK, δρυάδες .: SING) δρυάς is a tree, nymph or tree, spirit In greek. Mythology In greek drys signifies.. oak These were the hamadryads who were an integral part of their trees, such that if the tree died, the hamadryad associated with it died as well. For these reasons, dryads and the Greek gods punished any mortals who harmed trees without first propitiating the tree-nymphs.
1 Whether this means he was turned into a Dryad, or just a simple ordinary tree, is unknown. 2  Originally, the dryads in the first film were intended to be physical beings, played by actresses in costumes with green, leafy hair, pale green skin, and garments made of foliage. Be still, my princes, I have urgent news from your sisters.. ―a Blossom Dryad speaks to Peter and Edmund Pevensie. Dryads (also referred to as Wood Nymphs, Wood Gods, Wood Goddesses, Hamadryads, Tree People, and Silvans) were spirits of Narnian trees.
4,785 pages on this wiki. The Dryad is a NPC (Non-playable character) that will move into an empty house once you've killed a strong monster or boss. The easiest bosses to kill would be the Eye of Cthulhu, Skeletron, or the Eater of Worlds. The Dryad reveals in conversation that she is 500 years old. She's one of six female NPCs, the other ones being the Nurse, the Steampunker, the Party Girl, the Stylist, and the Mechanic. The Dryad can tell you the percentage of Corruption / Crimson vs. Hallow in the world. She does not drop any items upon death.