You must purchase gorilla viewing permits in advance. Current cost of gorilla viewing permits in Rwanda is $750 and in Uganda is $500 per person for a one hour visit in a group of eight visitors. This does not include the transportation from the registration and orientation site to the hiking departure point or trailhead. 
De Merode said the selling price for infant gorillas can run from about $15,000 to $40,000. No one knows for certain who the buyers are, Cadd said. The suspicion is possibly for zoos in places like Russia, India; or wealthy people who have personal zoos of exotic animals. Story: Baby gorilla sold for $15,000 rescued from poachers. © 2013 msnbc.com Reprints. The black market for baby gorillas is growing, officials in the Democratic Republic of Congo said Tuesday, after a fourth incident this year led to the arrest of alleged poachers trying to sell one infant for $40,000.
Within Uganda, Gorilla trekking is conducted in Bwindi National Park or in Mgahinga National Park. But because of the inconsistency of gorillas in Mgahinga, majority of the sold permits are for Bwindi NP. In Uganda, every gorilla permit goes for US$600 while from May to April 2016 they will go for US$350. On a single day, nearly 72 people travel into Bwindi to see gorillas and only 8 people are allowed to see a gorilla family. Choosing the best safari lodge or accommodation will depend on how much you can afford. Some lodges charge as high as, $900 while the budget ones can pocket as low as $ 70 for a double room. Its all about the facilities, location, food, services and so much more.
When I adopted My cat, it cost about $50 to adopt the animal from the shelter, but then there's these extra costs: * Food dish and water bowl $20 * Micro chip in case your bu … ddy gets lost $75 * Vet visit (you need to get one as soon as you get a cat) $90-$100 *Collar if you(or the cat) wants one. $8 *Food and water $35 (starting out) * Pet Bed (if you want one) $20 So, it will cost you about $268. But, then, if you want to get extras like Toys and grooming brushes. And it will cost up to as much as $950 dollars a year for vet visits, food, and occasional cat-sitting. Thank you!
However, the increased cost is countered by the low cost gorilla permit of US$600 ($350 in April and May, November 2015). A low budget 3 days gorilla trek tour in Uganda goes for about $1250 (with gorilla permit, accommodation, and transport). Yet in the same sense, that magical one hour spent with the gorillas does not come cheaply considering that a permit goes for US$750 in Rwanda and $600 in Uganda – but it is unusual to find someone who regretted the financial outlay. Mountain gorillas live in families similar to those of humans.
The two days Rwanda gorilla trek costs about $1220 (with gorilla permit, accommodation, and transport) and a three days Rwanda gorilla tracking tour costs is about $1280 (with gorilla permit, accommodation, and transport) . Costs samples got from Gorillas and Wildlife Safaris website effective Jan 2015. Yet in the same sense, that magical one hour spent with the gorillas does not come cheaply considering that a permit goes for US$750 in Rwanda and $600 in Uganda – but it is unusual to find someone who regretted the financial outlay. Mountain gorillas live in families similar to those of humans.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. Symbolically adopting a gorilla may cost between $25 and $250. Physically adopting a gorilla, on the other hand, is a different story. If you are talking about having a gorrilla as a house pet, then forget it. $8 *Food and water $35 (starting out) * Pet Bed (if you want one) $20 So, it will cost you about $268. But, then, if you want to get extras like Toys and grooming brushes. And it will cost up to as much as $950 dollars a year for vet visits, food, and occasional cat-sitting. Thank you!
8 people are allowed to visit a gorilla family each day. In Uganda, there are 10 habituated gorilla families in Bwindi Impenetrable Forest National Park, and therefore can host up to 80 people tacking the gorillas on a single day. Rwanda as well takes 80 people each day. For some people the cost of the permits might bring about some budgetary constraints that restrict them from enjoying this amazing adventure. Gorilla permits cost $500 in Uganda, and $750 in Rwanda. These are the two most popular mountain gorilla tourism destinations in Africa, and the world.
The major challenge with tracking gorillas in Rwanda is certainly the price of the gorilla permit at US$750 compared to Uganda’s US$600 per permit. However, Rwanda’s pride is in the ability for one to do the gorilla trek even in one day and fly back home which is impossible for Uganda. Volcanoes National Park is located 116 km from Kigali and can be driven in just 2 hours. Yet in the same sense, that magical one hour spent with the gorillas does not come cheaply considering that a permit goes for US$750 in Rwanda and $600 in Uganda – but it is unusual to find someone who regretted the financial outlay. Mountain gorillas live in families similar to those of humans.