Answers. Best Answer: A concentric contraction is a type of muscle contraction in which the muscles shorten while generating force. During a concentric contraction, a muscle is stimulated to contract according to the sliding filament mechanism. This occurs throughout the length of the muscle, generating force at the musculo-tendinous junction, causing the muscle to shorten and changing the angle of the joint. 
Impulse to activate action potential in skeletal muscle, My notes.... VIII.Muscle Fibers. a.specific structures in muscle cells (muscle fibers)(skeletal) allow the cells to contract and relax. 
Somatic motor neurons. The neurons that stimulate skeletal muscle to contract-each one has a threadlike axon that extends-from the brain or spinal cord to a group of skeletal muscle fibers-The axon of a somatic motor neuron typically branches many times, each branch extending to a different skeletal muscle fiber. 
1. Muscle activation: The motor nerve stimulates an action potential (impulse) to pass down a neuron to the neuromuscular junction. This stimulates the sarcoplasmic reticulum to release calcium into the muscle cell. 2. 
Types of Muscle Tissue. Skeletal muscle is associated with the bony skeleton, and consists of large cells that bear striations and are controlled voluntarily. Cardiac muscle occurs only in the heart, and consists of small cells that are striated and under involuntary control. Smooth muscle is found in the walls of hollow organs, and consists of small elongated cells that are not striated and are under involuntary control. Special Characteristics of Muscle Tissue. Excitability, or irritability, is the ability to receive and respond to a stimulus
The cell membrane of a muscle cell is called the sarcolemma, and this membrane, like that of neurons, maintains a membrane potential. So, impulses travel along muscle cell membranes just as they do along nerve cell membranes. However, the 'function' of impulses in muscle cells is to bring about contraction. Some muscles (skeletal muscles) will not contract unless stimulated by neurons; other muscles (smooth & cardiac) will contract without nervous stimulation but their contraction can be influenced by the nervous system. Thus, the nervous and muscle systems are closely interconnected.
The termination of muscle contraction is followed by muscle relaxation, which is a return of the muscle fibers to their low tension-generating state. In contrast, a muscle contraction is isotonic if muscle length changes but the muscle tension remains the same. Furthermore, if the muscle length shortens, the contraction is concentric. But if the muscle length lengthens, then the contraction is eccentric.
Muscle contraction is the activation of tension-generating sites within muscle fibers. In physiology, muscle contraction does not mean muscle shortening because muscle tension can be produced without changes in muscle length such as holding a heavy book or a dumbbell at the same position. In contrast, a muscle contraction is isotonic if muscle length changes but the muscle tension remains the same. Furthermore, if the muscle length shortens, the contraction is concentric. But if the muscle length lengthens, then the contraction is eccentric.
Neuromuscular Junction Skeletal muscle cells contract as a result of impulses from motor neurons. The place where a motor neuron stimulates a muscle cell is called a neuromuscular junction. In order for skeletal muscle cells to contract each cell must be stimulated by a process of a motor neuron. Sliding Filament Theory The theory of how muscle contracts is the sliding filament theory. The contraction of a muscle occurs as the thin filament slide past the thick filaments. In skeletal muscle, the cells never contract individually. Rather they contract as groups of muscle cells that are collectively connected to a motor nerve originating in the spinal cord. The combination of the motor nerve cell (neuron) and the muscle cells it innervates is known as the motor unit.