To answer your question, yes, it has Vitamin A. One cup of raw broccoli contains 11% of the US recommended daily allowance (RDA). However, that same cup has 135% of your RDA of Vitamin C!     For more information on broccoli, and any food you can consume, try clicking on the link below for NutritionData.com. In addition to vitamin K, foods like broccoli and kale contain important cancer-fighting compounds along with lots of fiber, vitamin A, and other good stuff. There is a way for you to get all the health benefits of these foods without infering with your blood-thinning therapy--but you'll need to work with your doctor.
B Vitamins. Broccoli has small amounts of the water-soluble B vitamins. Each cup of chopped raw broccoli provides .065 milligrams of thiamin, .106 milligrams of riboflavin, .581 milligrams of niacin and .159 milligrams of vitamin B6. It also has 57 micrograms of folate, a vitamin that works with vitamin B-12 to make hemoglobin in your red blood cells. Vitamin C. A cup of raw chopped broccoli contains 81.2 milligrams of vitamin C, providing 100 percent of your recommended daily intake for that nutrient. Your body needs vitamin C to produce collagen in your bones, cartilage, muscle tissue and blood vessels.
Broccoli does contain vitamin C. One cup of cooked broccoli actually contains as much vitamin C as an orange. It also contains iron, calcium, B1, B2, B3, B6, iron, magnesium, … potassium, thiamin, riboflavin, niacin, beta carotene and zinc. Broccoli wars: vitamin K and blood-thinners   Monday, January 1, 2007 at 1:08 PM | posted by mtselfadminQ. I take a blood-thinner (Coumadin) and my doctor gave me a list o … f foods to avoid because they cause an interaction with the medication.
1 Broccoli has an unusually strong combination of both vitamin A (in the form of beta-carotene) and vitamin K. For people faced with the need to rebuild vitamin D stores through vitamin D supplements, broccoli may be an ideal food to include in the diet. The B-complex vitamins in broccoli can also make a major contribution to our cardiovascular health. Especially with respect to excessive formation of homocysteine—an event which raises our risk of atherosclerosis, stroke, and heart attack—B-complex vitamin deficiency intake can pose a major risk.
Broccoli is an excellent source of vitamin K, vitamin C, chromium, and folate. It is a very good source of dietary fiber, pantothenic acid, vitamin B6, vitamin E, manganese, phosphorus, choline, vitamin B1, vitamin A (in the form of carotenoids), potassium, and copper. The B-complex vitamins in broccoli can also make a major contribution to our cardiovascular health. Especially with respect to excessive formation of homocysteine—an event which raises our risk of atherosclerosis, stroke, and heart attack—B-complex vitamin deficiency intake can pose a major risk.
We've seen studies on flavonoids in broccoli, B complex vitamins in broccoli, vitamin C in broccoli, as well as carotenoids and chlorophyll and glucosinolates in broccoli, and in all cases, steaming has been shown to do a better job of preserving nutrients than other cooking methods. The B-complex vitamins in broccoli can also make a major contribution to our cardiovascular health. Especially with respect to excessive formation of homocysteine—an event which raises our risk of atherosclerosis, stroke, and heart attack—B-complex vitamin deficiency intake can pose a major risk.
In addition to vitamin K, foods like broccoli and kale contain important cancer-fighting compounds along with lots of fiber, vitamin A, and other good stuff. There is a way for you to get all the health benefits of these foods without infering with your blood-thinning therapy--but you'll need to work with your doctor. Broccoli wars: vitamin K and blood-thinners   Monday, January 1, 2007 at 1:08 PM | posted by mtselfadminQ. I take a blood-thinner (Coumadin) and my doctor gave me a list o … f foods to avoid because they cause an interaction with the medication.
In addition to the nutrients highlighted in our ratings chart, an in-depth nutritional profile for Broccoli is also available. This profile includes information on a full array of nutrients, including carbohydrates, sugar, soluble and insoluble fiber, sodium, vitamins, minerals, fatty acids, amino acids and more. The B-complex vitamins in broccoli can also make a major contribution to our cardiovascular health. Especially with respect to excessive formation of homocysteine—an event which raises our risk of atherosclerosis, stroke, and heart attack—B-complex vitamin deficiency intake can pose a major risk.
Broccoli is rich in water-soluble nutrients, such as vitamin C, folate and other B vitamins. Broccoli, a plant related to cabbage, cauliflower and kale, has been cultivated for thousands of years. Vitamin C. A cup of raw chopped broccoli contains 81.2 milligrams of vitamin C, providing 100 percent of your recommended daily intake for that nutrient. Your body needs vitamin C to produce collagen in your bones, cartilage, muscle tissue and blood vessels.