Having multiple forms as part of your Visual Basic .NET program may be nice, but when your Visual Basic .NET program runs, it normally displays one form. To make the other forms of your program appear [more…]. One of the great things about .NET is the capability to use someone else's software that was written as a Web service. This means that you don't have to reinvent the wheel every time you need to incorporate [more…].
When a website wants to set or update a cookie in your browser, it will use this header. Each cookie is sent as a separate header. Note that the cookies set via JavaScript do not go through HTTP headers. In PHP, you can set cookies using the setcookie() function, and PHP sends the appropriate HTTP headers. Which causes this header to be sent: If the expiration date is not specified, the cookie is deleted when the browser window is closed. When you send a HEAD request, it means that you are only interested in the response code and the HTTP headers, not the document itself.. With this method the browser can check if a document has been modified, for caching purposes.
First, you'll get an introduction to all the tools and terminology you need to understand ASP.NET. If you've used earlier versions of ASP.NET and Visual Web Developer, you can probably skip that part and jump right into what's new in 3.5. You'll make friends with LINQ and SQL, create sites in Visual Web Developer 2008 Express, and much more.
ASP .NET is the technology built into .NET that you use to create Web pages and other Internet-based applications. ASP.NET is not merely the next version of ASP [more…]. One of the great things about .NET is the capability to use someone else's software that was written as a Web service. This means that you don't have to reinvent the wheel every time you need to incorporate [more…].
ADO.NET is Microsoft’s ActiveX Data Object (ADO) model for the .NET Framework. ADO.NET is not simply the migration of the popular ADO model to the managed environment but a completely new paradigm for data access and manipulation. ADO.NET is intended specifically for developing web applications. 1 You can drag and drop controls and set properties the way you do in Visual Basic 6. 2  And you have full IntelliSense support, not only for your code, but also for HTML and XML. 3  State management. 4  To refer to the problems mentioned before, ASP.NET provides solutions for session and application s
This feature is not available right now. Please try again later. This video is mainly targeted to developers who are completely new to .NET Framework. This is the first video among a series of .NET Video tutorials which mainly explain what exactly .NET framework is and what are the features provided by .NET. Further videos would explain in detail all the components of the .NET architecture along with code samples and examples
ASP.NET is based on the fundamental architecture of .NET Framework. Visual studio provide a uniform way to combine the various features of this Architecture. Architecture is explained form bottom to top in the following discussion. At the bottom of the Architecture is Common Language Runtime. 1 You can drag and drop controls and set properties the way you do in Visual Basic 6. 2  And you have full IntelliSense support, not only for your code, but also for HTML and XML. 3  State management. 4  To refer to the problems mentioned before, ASP.NET provides solutions for session and application s
ASP.NET 3.5 For Dummies Cheat Sheet. Creating dynamic Web sites is why you use ASP.NET 3.5. It can help you to create a reunion Web site for multiple users or to expand your business site to enable online shopping. One of the great things about .NET is the capability to use someone else's software that was written as a Web service. This means that you don't have to reinvent the wheel every time you need to incorporate [more…].