Let's review: your aorta exits your heart from the left ventricle. It is the largest artery and carries blood from the heart to the body. Because blood is propelled out of your heart under high pressure, the aorta contains elastic fibers that allow it to expand and relax. 
Review 3. Go back to your pulmonary artery. Look at the back side of the heart and see the pulmonary artery branches into two holes. You may not see this because of the fat on the heart. These blood vessels (the pulmonary arteries) leave the right ventricle and lead to the _________________________. The pulmonary artery to the lungs can be seen curving out of the right ventricle toward the left side of the heart (toward your right). Locate the superior and inferior vena cavas Locate the two large blood vessels that enter the right atrium. These are the superior and inferior vena cavas.
Report Abuse. Strictly speaking, all the veins lead to the heart. However, there are three (answer a) that directly enter the heart. The superior and inferior vena cavae (plural form of vena cava) enter the right atrium, and the pulmonary vein enters the left atrium. 
There are three major types of blood vessels: the arteries, which carry the blood away from the heart; the capillaries, which enable the actual exchange of water and chemicals between the blood and the tissues; and the veins, which carry blood from the capillaries back toward the heart. 
Answer by Cowleya. Confidence votes 10.2K. Four main blood vessels enter/exit the heart: two veins and two arteries. Oxygenated blood enters the left ventricle through the pulmonary vein. This same blood is then pumped out of the left atrium via the aorta. Oxygenated blood enters the heart in the pulmonary vein. It passes through the left ventricle, before exiting in the aorta. 6 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body.
Coronary circulation is the circulation of blood in the blood vessels of the heart muscle (myocardium). The vessels that deliver oxygen-rich blood to the myocardium are known as coronary arteries. The vessels that remove the deoxygenated blood from the heart muscle are known as cardiac veins. These include the great cardiac vein, the middle cardiac vein, the small cardiac vein and the anterior cardiac veins.
Best Answer: The heart is divided into left heart and right heart functionally. Left heart:-- Incoming blood vessel: Pulmonary vein. The pulmonary veins are large blood vessels that carry oxygenated blood from the lungs to the left atrium of the heart. In humans there are four pulmonary veins, two from each lung. They carry oxygenated blood, which is unusual since almost all other veins carry deoxygenated blood. The aorta distributes oxygenated blood to all parts of the body through the systemic circulation. Right heart:-- Incoming blood vessel-venae cavae. The superior and inferior vena cava are collectively called the venae cavae. They are the veins that return deoxygenated blood from the body, into the heart.
Collateral circulation is a network of tiny blood vessels, and, under normal conditions, not open. When the coronary arteries narrow to the point that blood flow to the heart muscle is limited (coronary artery disease), collateral vessels may enlarge and become active. Two major coronary arteries branch off from the aorta near the point where the aorta and the left ventricle meet. These arteries and their branches supply all parts of the heart muscle with blood. 1  Left Main Coronary Artery.