Editor's Note: USDA scientists analyzed antioxidant levels in more than 100 different foods, including fruits and vegetables. Each food was measured for antioxidant concentration as well as antioxidant capacity per serving size. Cranberries, blueberries, and blackberries ranked highest among the fruits studied. Beans, artichokes, and Russet potatoes were tops among the vegetables. Pecans, walnuts, and hazelnuts ranked highest in the nut category.
Antioxidants, which are found in fruits, vegetables and whole grains, can slow down or repair this damage. From vitamin E–packed Wheat Berry & Fruit Salad to lycopene-loaded Broccoli & Tomato Pizza, here are 10 recipes that are full of disease-fighting antioxidants. They'll make healthy eating delicious, too. 
1 The beneficial health effects of a diet high in vegetables and fruits or other antioxidant-rich foods may actually be caused by other substances present in the same foods, other dietary factors, or other lifestyle choices rather than antioxidants. Examples of antioxidants include vitamins C and E, selenium, and carotenoids, such as beta-carotene, lycopene, lutein, and zeaxanthin. This fact sheet provides basic information about antioxidants, summarizes what the science says about antioxidants and health, and suggests sources for additional information.
Eating a diet rich in antioxidant-containing foods, such as fruits, vegetables and whole grains, is linked to a reduced risk of cardiovascular (heart and blood vessels) disease. 1  Learn more. Antioxidants are natural substances that exist as vitamins, minerals and other compounds in foods. They are believed to help prevent disease by fighting free radicals, substances that harm the body when left unchecked.
Examples of antioxidant-rich foods include fruits and vegetables that are high in nutrients such as vitamins A, C and E, beta-carotene, lutein, lycopene and selenium. Some people choose to take antioxidant supplements. 1 Vitamin E is found in some nuts and seeds, including almonds, sunflower seeds, hazelnuts and peanuts. 2  It can also be found in green leafy vegetables, such as spinach and kale, and in oils, such as soybean, sunflower, corn and canola oils.
Key Points. 1  Vegetables and fruits are rich sources of antioxidants. 2  There is good evidence that eating a diet that includes plenty of vegetables and fruits is healthy, and official U.S. Government policy urges people to eat more of these foods. Examples of antioxidants include vitamins C and E, selenium, and carotenoids, such as beta-carotene, lycopene, lutein, and zeaxanthin. This fact sheet provides basic information about antioxidants, summarizes what the science says about antioxidants and health, and suggests sources for additional information.
The best way to get antioxidants is by eating a diet with lots of vegetables, fruits, whole grains, seeds and nuts. Variety is also important. If you take a multi-vitamin supplement, be careful. Too much of some nutrients from supplements rather than foods, such as vitamins E and A or selenium, can be harmful. 1 Vitamin E is found in some nuts and seeds, including almonds, sunflower seeds, hazelnuts and peanuts. 2  It can also be found in green leafy vegetables, such as spinach and kale, and in oils, such as soybean, sunflower, corn and canola oils.
The most well known sources of antioxidants include foods with beta-carotene, the mineral selenium, the compound lycopene, and Vitamins A, C, and E. Most people now know that fruits and vegetables are key sources of antioxidants as well as other vitamins and minerals. 
They're loaded with nutrients, called antioxidants, that are good for you. Add more fruits and vegetables of any kind to your diet. It'll help your health. Some foods are higher in antioxidants than others, though. The three major antioxidant vitamins are beta-carotene, vitamin C, and vitamin E. You’ll find them in colorful fruits and vegetables, especially those with purple, blue, red, orange, and yellow hues. Vitamin E: broccoli, carrots, chard, mustard and turnip greens, mangoes, nuts, papaya, pumpkin, red peppers, spinach, and sunflower seeds. These foods are also rich in antioxidants: 1  Prunes. 2  Apples. 3  Raisins. 4  Plums. 5  Red grapes. 6  Alfalfa sprouts. 7  Onions.
To get the most antioxidants, eat a diet that includes a healthy mix of colorful fruits and vegetables and other antioxidant-rich foods: 1  Vitamin A is found in milk, liver, butter and eggs. 1 Vitamin E is found in some nuts and seeds, including almonds, sunflower seeds, hazelnuts and peanuts. 2  It can also be found in green leafy vegetables, such as spinach and kale, and in oils, such as soybean, sunflower, corn and canola oils.