The annelids (Annelida, from Latin anellus, little ring), also known as the ringed worms or segmented worms, are a large phylum, with over 17,000 extant species including ragworms, earthworms, and leeches. Annelids are considered members of the Lophotrochozoa, a super-phylum of protostomes that also includes molluscs, brachiopods, flatworms and nemerteans. The basic annelid form consists of multiple segments.
Annelids are a phylum including earthworms, leeches, polychaete worms, and some other worm groups(3). Annelids are also called segmented worms because a defining feature they all share is a body most of which is divided into segments, each of which contains parts of the basic body systems (2). Learn more about this article. Annelida is a group commonly referred to as segmented worms, and they are found worldwide from the deepest marine sediments to the soils in our city parks and yards. Through most of the 20th century Annelida was split into three major groups; Polychaeta, Oligochaeta (earthworms etc.) and Hirudinea (leeches
Annelida. The animals in the Annelida are segmented worms. They have no legs, and no hard skeleton. Unlike mollusks, annelid bodies are divided into many little segments, like rings joined together. There are many other kinds of worms, but only annelids are segmented this way. There are three main groups of annelids, the earthworms (and their relatives), the leeches, and a big group that lives in the ocean and are called polychaetes (pol-ee-keets)
Segmented worms make up the Phylum Annelida. The phylum includes earthworms, leeches, and a large number of mostly marine worms known as polychaetes. Polychaetes (meaning many bristles) have many bristles on the body, while earthworms and leeches have fewer bristles. Some are parasitic, as the leeches; others filter-feed or prey on other invertebrates. Segmented wormsmake up the Phylum Annelida. The phylum includes earthworms, leeches, and a large number of mostly marine worms known as polychaetes.
Annelida. . Members of this phylum may be most familiar: the common earthworm, leech and nightcrawler belong to this group. There are three general types of segmented worms. One group is entirely marine (the polychaetes), while the other two groups are either terrestrial or live in freshwater.
The annelids (Phylum Annelida) are also called the segmented worms due to their segmented bodies. This group includes the most familiar of all invertebrate worms. Earthworms, freshwater worms, leeches, and marine worms are all annelids. This group is also called bristle worms because most annelids have tiny chitinous bristles called setae. The setae help terrestrial annelids grip their surroundings, and they aid aquatic forms with swimming. Learn more about this article. Annelida is a group commonly referred to as segmented worms, and they are found worldwide from the deepest marine sediments to the soils in our city parks and yards. Through most of the 20th century Annelida was split into three major groups; Polychaeta, Oligochaeta (earthworms etc.) and Hirudinea (leeches)
Marine species are members of one of two classes, Polychaeta (Polychaete worms) or Hirudinea (leeches). A third class, Oligochaeta, includes the well-known earthworms. The phylum is up for a revision as recent research has revealed that the leeches should probably join the oligochaetes, together with the earthworms. So, the annelids now inlcude both segmented and unsegmented worms. They come in a huge variety of shapes and colors. Many of the worms live their lives buried in the sand while others stand up like flowers. Some are microscopic in size, others can reach a length of 3 meters.
Segmented worms (Annelida) are a group of invertebrates that includes about 12,000 species of earthworms, ragworms and leeches. Segmented worms live in marine habitats such as the intertidal zone and near hydrothermal vents. Segmented worms are divided into the following taxonomic groups: 1  Polychates-The polychaetes include about 12,000 species that are characterized by having multiple hairs on each segment. 2  They have nuchal organs on their neck that function as chemosensory organs.