This is because the beta cells of the pancreas are unable to provide enough insulin to keep the blood sugar levels in the normal range. When people with diabetes find their blood sugar level to be unexpectedly high, they might call it a spike. This typically happens after eating a rich meal or a sequence of rich meals. by rich I mean high in starch and/or sugar plus animal fat. 
A sugar crash or glucose crash is the fatigue after consuming a large quantity of carbohydrates, also known as reactive hypoglycemia. Symptoms associated with sugar crashes are similar to those experienced during periods of hypoglycemia, though not as severe. This is because the difference between usual and post-meal blood glucose levels is not as large as in diabetic cases of
After-meal, or “postprandial,” spikes are temporary high blood glucose levels that occur soon after eating. It is normal for the level of glucose in the blood to rise a small amount after eating, even in people who do not have diabetes. A common approach to lowering after-meal blood glucose spikes is to take more insulin. But unless blood glucose levels remain high for three to six hours after eating, taking more insulin is not going to solve the problem.
This is especially true since blood sugar spikes are more associated with long-term diabetes complications than readings you get when your blood sugar is more stable. The truth is that nearly anything that has carbohydrates will cause some type of spike in your blood sugar. What makes blood sugar levels spike besides the type of carbohydrate you eat and how you cook it is what you eat with the carbohydrate. If you eat a carbohydrate by itself, it has a higher potential to raise your blood sugar than if you were to eat it with protein or fats.
The use of the word sugar in blood sugar is a colloquial term, a misnomer. Glucose, one type of sugar, is the one in the bloodstream that feeds cells and matters to us. Sugar is a simple, crystalline, edible carbohydrate and comes in a variety of forms, all of them sweet. Blood sugar or blood glucose refers to sugar that is transported through the bloodstream to supply energy to all the cells in our bodies. The sugar is made from the food we eat.
Even though after-meal blood glucose spikes are temporary, several spikes a day, day after day, can raise your glycosylated hemoglobin, or A1C level, and a high A1C level has been shown to raise the risk of long-term diabetes complications. A common approach to lowering after-meal blood glucose spikes is to take more insulin. But unless blood glucose levels remain high for three to six hours after eating, taking more insulin is not going to solve the problem.
Carbohydrates and Blood Sugar Levels. The main nutrient group that makes your blood sugar spike after a meal is carbohydrates. Carbohydrates include both sugars and starches, which are both converted to sugar, or glucose, when your body digests them in your gastrointestinal tract. If you do not have diabetes, a target of less than 100 mg/dL before a meal and below 120 mg/dL two hours after eating is more appropriate. A blood sugar spike means that your blood sugar levels go above the desired range.
Blood sugar spikes are sudden and relatively large increases in an individual's blood sugar levels. People generally experience spikes in their blood sugar after eating, especially if the meal was particularly sweet. Although spikes normally go beyond the usual blood sugar threshold of 180 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL), those that measure 350mg/dL or more are considered to be dangerous.
Blood sugar spikes may occur after eating, especially if a meal was sweet. Drinking water may help dilute excess sugar in the body. Blood sugar spikes may cause dizziness. 1 to 2 tablespoons of vinegar may be helpful in lowering blood sugar during spikes. Low blood sugar can often cause fatigue. Extremely high or low blood sugar can lead to coma. A large blood sugar spike may cause a person to lose consciousness. People generally experience spikes in their blood sugar after eating, especially if the meal was particularly sweet. Although spikes normally go beyond the usual blood sugar threshold of 180 milligrams per deciliter (mg/dL), those that measure 350mg/dL or more are considered to be dangerous.
When your blood sugar drops, your body releases stored sugar -- mainly from the liver -- and overcompensates. If your blood sugar level drops in the middle of the night, this overproduction of sugar can cause a high level in the morning. This is called the Somogyi effect. First, look at food. What you ate the night before may be behind the blood sugar spike -- for example, if you ate much more than you usually eat, or if the amount of food was more than your medications are made to handle.