Eels eat live food. Small longfin eels living amongst the river gravels will feed on insect larvae, worms and water snails. When they get bigger, they begin to feed on fish. They will also eat fresh-water crayfish and even small birds like ducklings. During the day, eels are secretive, hiding under logs and boulders or under riverbanks. Shortfin eels. There are two main types of eel – the shortfin and the longfin. There are fewer eels today because of the loss of wetlands and historical commercial fishing practice. Currently the commercial eel fishery is managed by the Ministry for Primary Industries under the Quota Management System.
They are predominantly nocturnal (night) feeders and feed on a variety of species depending on the age of the eel – such as other fish, younger eels, koura (fresh water crayfish), insects and worms. Large eels have even been known to eat small birds. Female Longfin eels can achieve ages of between 30 to 100 years before reaching sexual maturity (15 to 45 years for males) . The age (of a dead eel) can be ascertained by counting the rings on an ear bone (otolith) that tells its age like those of a tree.
Female longfin eels are larger than than male longfin eels. The largest longfin eel recorded from the Styx River is a 1.65 metre long and found in Styx Mill Conservation Reserve in 2007 (NZFFDB 2007). 
The New Zealand longfin eel is a very long lived fish with records of females reaching 106 years old and weighing up to 24 kg. Longfin Eels have the slowest growth rate of any eel species studied, growing between 1 - 2 centimetres a year. The New Zealand longfin eel is an endemic species to New Zealand with a very wide distribution through New Zealand's freshwater waterways including the Chatham Islands. Longfin eels are often found great distances inland (up to 361 km) along fresh waterways and in high country lakes which are connected to the sea.
In the wild, eels eat such animals as octopuses and fish. In captivity, though, eels will eat almost any meaty food including: -live fish-shrimp-squid and-chopped fish In … the wild, squid is a delicacy, so be sure to give your eel some once in a while. 
In the wild, eels eat such animals as octopuses and fish. In captivity, though, eels will eat almost any meaty food including: Eels have poor eyesight, and might mistake your fingers for a tasty morsel of food! Ells eat small fish,insect,plantsin the ocean.They are also found in the Atlantic ocean,pacific,and Indian ocean. eel's eat other sea creature smaller then them, they are omnivores so they also eat plants.
Male and female Longfin Eels differ in length and in the age at which they migrate with males averaging 666 mm but reaching up to 735 mm in length with an average age of 23 years (12 – 35 years). Female Longfin Eels are considerably larger with an average length of 1156 mm, but can range from 737 to 1560 mm. The New Zealand longfin eel is an endemic species to New Zealand with a very wide distribution through New Zealand's freshwater waterways including the Chatham Islands. Longfin eels are often found great distances inland (up to 361 km) along fresh waterways and in high country lakes which are connected to the sea.
Food. Longfin eels are omnivores. This means they are general or opportune feeders – eating both plant and animal life, depending on what’s available. As elvers, they mostly eat insect larvae, worms and water snails. As they get bigger, their diet includes small fish, crayfish and small birds, such as ducklings. We also have a recently introduced longfin eel from Australia (Anguilla reinhardtii). Longfin eels can be identified because the dorsal (top) fin is longer and extends further forward than the anal (bottom) fin. In the shortfin species, the dorsal and anal fins are of a similar length.