Ringbone can affect the proximal interphalangeal joint, commonly known as the pastern joint in both front and hind limbs – this is known as high ringbone. Low ringbone is the term used to describe a similar condition when it affects the distal interphalangeal joint, which is commonly termed the coffin bone. True ringbone – often described as Articular ringbone, and false ringbone – described as Peri-Articular ringbone. Peri-articular ringbone is where the bony formation does not involve the joint. However if a joint is involved, it becomes a form of degenerative arthritis that is 
Definition of RINGBONE. : a bony outgrowth on or near the articulating surface of the pastern or coffin bone of a horse that typically results from injury and usually produces lameness. ADVERTISEMENT. noun ring·bone \-ˌbōn\. : a bony outgrowth on the phalangeal bones of a horse's foot that usually produces lameness. 
Ringbone is exostosis (bone growth) in the pastern or coffin joint of a horse. In severe cases, the growth can encircle the bones, giving ringbone its name. High ringbone is easier seen than low ringbone, as low ringbone occurs in the hoof of the horse. However, low ringbone may be seen if it becomes serious, as it creates a bony bump on the coronet
Ringbone is a skeletal change that affects a horse's lower limbs and can impact performance by causing lameness. This arthritic condition affects the pastern joint or occasionally the coffin joint. These are known respectively as high ringbone and low ringbone. 
Ringbone is a common diagnosis. Horses young and old, backyard pets and high-level athletes alike are all susceptible to the disease. Some horses are unaffected; for others it spells the end of life, and for those in between it’s a lifetime of arthritis with or without lameness. The preferred veterinary terminology for high ringbone is osteoarthritis or DJD of the proximal interphalangeal joint (pastern joint); or in the case of low ringbone: osteoarthritis or DJD of the distal interphalangeal joint (coffin joint).
Low ringbone occurs on the lower part of the small pastern bone or the upper part of the coffin bone. High ringbone is easier seen than low ringbone, as low ringbone occurs in the hoof of the horse. However, low ringbone may be seen if it becomes serious, as it creates a bony bump on the coronet of the horse.
Ringbone is painful new bone growth on the pastern. New growth centered around the pastern joint is called high ringbone while new growth centered around the coffin joint is called low ringbone.. 
Osteoarthritis of the pastern or coffin joint occurs when the horse's system produces bone growth in an attempt to immobilize the joint and relieve chronic inflammation of the joint capsule. Ringbone usually occurs in the front legs and is most often found in mature horses that are engaged in intensive training. Ringbone is a condition where new bone growth leads to a swelling that occurs on the horse's legs as a result of stress. The condition presents as a heated swelling which is sensitive to pressure either near the pastern joint or just above the coronary band
Description. Ringbone is a condition where new bone growth leads to a swelling that occurs on the horse's legs as a result of stress. The condition presents as a heated swelling which is sensitive to pressure either near the pastern joint or just above the coronary band