About the Andes Mountains. The Andes Mountains run the length of the West Coast of South America, rising in the North in Colombia and finishing in Chile and Argentina in the South. They are world's longest mountain range running for over 7,000km and covering 6 countries. This has created a sequence of volcanoes and fold mountains, rising up to 6962m at Aconcagua. The trench (marking the boundary between the Nazca and South American plates) to the West of the Andes mountains is called the Peru-Chile Trench, and reaches an incredible depth of 8066m under the sea level. These areas are very hard to live in because of the physical geography
With the help of Figure 2 and a case study of a fold mountain range, describe how people use fold mountains. 8m. ANSWER: Actual content will depend on the case study being used – Andes and Alps are likely but any (young) fold mountain range is permissible. Uses are likely to be farming, hep, mining and tourism.
Question 20. Running north to south along the west coast of South America, the Andes Mountain range is made up of a series of: altiplanos. emergents. cordilleras. pampas. Question 21. In spite of its wealth of natural resources such as coffee, emeralds, and coal, Colombia has had a turbulent history. The Andes are home to many international research groups and universities Question 25 Deforestation is one of the main causes for the growing numbers of: people moving to the area threatened, endangered, or extinct animals.
Fold mountains are created by uplift and folding of tectonic plates as they move towards each other and collide. This is known as a compressional plate margin. An example is the Andes Mountain range in South America(). The plates may be either 'continental and continental' or 'continental and oceanic'. The plates move towards each other, but there isn't a free space for them to move into because they are already touching each other. At a destructive plate margin where oceanic and continental plates collide, the oceanic plate is subducted, pulled under the continental plate-whilst the continental plate is crumpled upwards to form a mountain range. The Andes are an example of fold mountains formed at a destructive
The tallest mountain range in the world is the Himalayas and the longest is the Andes. Himalayas. The Himalayas stretch 1,491 miles through much of central Asia. They travel from Afghanistan and Pakistan through India, Nepal, and China all the way to Bhutan. Alps. The Alps are a major mountain range in central Europe. They pass through many European countries including France, Germany, Switzerland, Italy, Austria, and Slovenia. The tallest peak in the Alps is Mont Blanc at 15,782 feet located on the French-Italian border.
The Andes mountain is located in South America.   The Andes Mountains are located down the west coast of South  America.    The Andes is located along the western … coast of South America, with  a mountain range that is part of seven countries: Argentina,  Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela. 54 people found this useful. Along western coast of South America.It extends over seven countries-Argentina,Bolivia,Chile,Columbia,Ecuador,Peru,Venezuela. The Andes Mountains are … in South America. It is in the countries of Chile, Argentina, Bolivia, Peru, Ecuador, and Colombia. + 6 others found this useful.
The Andes. The Andes Mountains are the longest mountain chain in the world. They stretch along the entire west coast of South America from Cape Horn to Panama, a distance of 4,500 miles. Only the Himalaya Mountains and their adjacent ranges such as the Hindu Kush are higher than the Andes range. Many Andean peaks rise over 20,000 feet (6,096 m.).