The initial damage that chlamydia causes often goes unnoticed. However, chlamydial infections can lead to serious health problems with both short-and long-term consequences. In women, untreated chlamydia can spread into the uterus or fallopian tubes and cause pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). Symptomatic PID occurs in about 10 to 15 percent of women with untreated chlamydia. 30,31 However, chlamydia can also cause subclinical inflammation of the upper genital tract (“subclinical PID”).
If chlamydia infection is not treated, about 30% of cases spread within the pelvic organs, leading to a condition known as pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). Symptoms of pelvic inflammatory disease include pelvic pain, pain with sexual intercourse, fever, cramping, and abdominal pain.
Chlamydia is a common sexually transmitted disease (STD) caused by infection with Chlamydia trachomatis. It can cause cervicitis in women and urethritis and proctitis in both men and women.
Chlamydia is caused by the bacterium Chlamydia trachomatis. The disease is spread by oral, vaginal, or anal sex, and if you touch your eyes with a contaminated hand, you may also develop conjunctivitis. Chlamydia can also be passed during vaginal birth to the infant.
Chlamydia is one of the most common sexually transmitted diseases in the U.S. This infection is easily spread because it often causes no symptoms and may be unknowingly passed to sexual partners. In fact, about 75% of infections in women and 50% in men are without symptoms.
Chlamydia is a common STD that can infect both men and women. It can cause serious, permanent damage to a woman's reproductive system, making it difficult or impossible for her to get pregnant later on. Chlamydia can also cause a potentially fatal ectopic pregnancy (pregnancy that occurs outside the womb).
If you are a woman, untreated chlamydia can spread to your uterus and fallopian tubes (tubes that carry fertilized eggs from the ovaries to the uterus), causing pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). PID often has no symptoms, however some women may have abdominal and pelvic pain.
Chlamydia, which strikes over 4 million Americans a year, is the most common bacterial sexually transmitted disease (STD) in the U.S. Scientists believe it's twice as common as gonorrhea and 30 times as common as syphilis. The good news is that chlamydia is easily cured by antibiotics.