The German company will phase out the use of Temik on citrus and potatoes by the end of 2011 and eventually discontinue uses on all other crops, such as cotton and peanuts in 2018, said Jack Boyne, director of communications for Bayer CropScience U.S. operations. Some people may think that phasing out of Temik is not significant. Phasing out of Temik is a huge backward step for cotton production, Nematodes are worm like creatures that attach themselves to roots and are deadly to cotton plants. They attack the root system of a plant.
About Temik. Temik is a strong, broad spectrum pesticide that is gradually being phased out because of the threat it poses to humans and animals. Developed as an systemic insecticide and nematicide for use on a variety of food and non-food crops, farmers have been known to use it to kill animal pests, such as gophers. 
Aldicarb is effective where resistance to organophosphate insecticides has developed, and is extremely important in potato production, where it is used for the control of soil-borne nematodes and some foliar pests. Use on citrus and potatoes was banned beginning in 2012, with a complete phase out of the product expected by 2018. Despite this, a new aldicarb pesticide named Meymik 15G, produced by AgLogic Chemical, was approved by the EPA in December 2011 and is said to be entering the market in 2015. It will be registered for use on Cotton, Dry Beans, Peanuts, Soybeans, Sugarbeets, and Sweet Potatoe
(0) Comments. JACKSON-Temik is a poison used to control insects, nematodes and mice on crops such as cotton, oranges and potatoes in Idaho and sugar beets in Wyoming. Its toxic ingredient is aldicarb, which is released from the granules of Temik when exposed to moisture. There is a seal on the granules that holds the poison. It primarily affects the nervous system by inhibiting the release of enzymes that transmit nerve impulses.
By. WASHINGTON— German drug maker Bayer AG will phase out production of Temik, a pesticide used on numerous crops such as cotton, peanuts and potatoes, after a new study by the Environmental Protection Agency found that the 40-year-old product doesn't meet U.S. food-safety standards. 
The product will not be Temik, it will be an aldicarb compound that is very similar to Temik. Rumored trade names for the new product include Mimik, because it would be very similar or mimic Temik and Nemik, because of its nematicidal activity that will be similar to that of Temik. That answer is no! Bayer CropScience has made it clear the company is working with the EPA and plans to move forward with its plans to first cancel use of Temik on potatoes and citrus. This will be followed by a gradual phase out of the product on all crops in all U.S. markets by 2014.
“It was reported by Bayer CropScience they would phase out the production of Temik by 2014, and I was telling everyone not to worry about it, that we’d figure it out,” says Kemerait. (The loss of Temik already had altered some cropping plans last year. To see how some growers responded, click here). “The first thing we use Temik for in peanuts is thrips control, and replacing it won’t be a problem there,” he says.
A Levelland cotton producer said when he tested another nematode control pesticide against Temik, the plot using the other pesticide had half the yield of the plot treated with Temik. He planned to keep using Temik as long as it was available and, simultaneously, search for an alternative option. Some people may think that phasing out of Temik is not significant. Phasing out of Temik is a huge backward step for cotton production, Nematodes are worm like creatures that attach themselves to roots and are deadly to cotton plants. They attack the root system of a plant.
Aldicarb is a carbamate insecticide which is the active substance in the pesticide Temik. It is effective against thrips, aphids, spider mites, lygus, fleahoppers, and leafminers, but is primarily used as a nematicide. Aldicarb is a cholinesterase inhibitor which prevents the breakdown of acetylcholine in the synapse. Use on citrus and potatoes was banned beginning in 2012, with a complete phase out of the product expected by 2018. Despite this, a new aldicarb pesticide named Meymik 15G, produced by AgLogic Chemical, was approved by the EPA in December 2011 and is said to be entering the market in 2015. It will be registered for use on Cotton, Dry Beans, Peanuts, Soybeans, Sugarbeets, and Sweet Potatoes