The Nullification Crisis was a sectional crisis during the presidency of Andrew Jackson created by the Ordinance of Nullification, an attempt by the state of South … Carolina to nullify a federal law passed by the United States Congress. The nullification crisis happened because the Congress made a law raising tariffs (taxes on imported goods).
The South Carolina convention reconvened and repealed its Nullification Ordinance on March 15, 1833, but three days later nullified the Force Bill as a symbolic gesture to maintain its principles. The crisis was over, and both sides could find reasons to claim victory. In November 1832 the Nullification Convention met. The convention declared that the tariffs of 1828 and 1832 were unconstitutional and unenforceable within the state of South Carolina after February 1, 1833.
The crisis ensued after South Carolina declared that the federal Tariffs of 1828 and 1832 were unconstitutional and therefore null and void within the sovereign boundaries of the state. The nation suffered an economic downturn throughout the 1820s, and South Carolina was particularly affected. In November 1832 the Nullification Convention met. The convention declared that the tariffs of 1828 and 1832 were unconstitutional and unenforceable within the state of South Carolina after February 1, 1833.
The Nullification crisis ended by having the Congress pass a compromise bill that made tariffs, or tax made from the government on imported goods, lower. Also that Jackson threatened to kill, by hanging them, the first person he could get on the first tree, if they were to secede, or withdraw of the states. The nullification crisis happened because the Congress made a law raising tariffs (taxes on imported goods).
Shortly after the Force Bill was passed through Congress, Henry Clay and John C. Calhoun proposed The Tariff of 1833, also known as the Compromise Tariff, to resolve the Nullification Crisis. The Tariff of 1828 [edit]. The Tariff of 1828, enacted on May 19, 1828, was a protective tariff passed by the U.S. Congress. It was the highest tariff in U.S. peacetime history up to that point, enacting a 62% tax on 92% of all imported goods.
4) Nullification: The idea that states should not have to enforce laws created by Congress if they felt it was unconstitutional. 5) The Force Bill: authorized Andrew Jackson to use force to preserve the Union. Important Cartoons Andrew Jackson prevents nullification by South Carolina. 
The nullification crisis happened because the Congress made a law raising tariffs (taxes on imported goods). The South, thought it was more in favor of the North and did not w … ant to pa it. South Carolina threatened to secede from the state unless they were lowered or taken away. The Nullification Crisis happened during the Jacksonion Era. When president Andrew Jackson passed the Tariff of 1828 (taxes on trade that benefited the North, but reduced sale … s for the South), South Carolina excercised their constitutional right, by declaring the Tariff was null and void.
Vice President of the United States John C. Calhoun. The Tariff of 1833 (also known as the Compromise Tariff of 1833, ch. 55, 4 Stat. 629), enacted on March 2, 1833, was proposed by Henry Clay and John C. Calhoun as a resolution to the Nullification Crisis. The Tariff of 1828 [edit]. The Tariff of 1828, enacted on May 19, 1828, was a protective tariff passed by the U.S. Congress. It was the highest tariff in U.S. peacetime history up to that point, enacting a 62% tax on 92% of all imported goods.
By then the nullification of the Force Bill was a moot point, but it allowed South Carolina to feel a small taste of victory. However, the issues of nullification and secession had stirred the first rumblings that would eventually lead to the Civil War. 
The Nullification Crisis was a sectional crisis during the presidency of Andrew Jackson created by the Ordinance of Nullification, an attempt by the state of South Carolina to nullify a federal law passed by the United States Congress. The Nullification Crisis happened during the Jacksonion Era. When president Andrew Jackson passed the Tariff of 1828 (taxes on trade that benefited the North, but reduced sale … s for the South), South Carolina excercised their constitutional right, by declaring the Tariff was null and void.