We continue to provide skilled nursing services for the long-term care resident as well. Our programs include stroke rehabilitation, Alzheimer’s care and out-patient care. Our goal is to help individuals achieve their highest possible functioning level and to assist them in returning home. Lakeland Skilled Nursing and Rehabilitation Center has had the same name, serving North East Indiana residents, for over 40 years. When we first opened we were admitting 6 people per year. As with any successful and thriving enterprise we have evolved to meet the needs of 'today's generation'.
Your Best Way Home. Inpatient rehabilitation has shifted from hospitals to skilled nursing centers. When you need nursing care and/or rehabilitation, HCR ManorCare has more than 280 centers across the country that treat a wide range of patients transitioning from hospital to home.
Inpatient rehabilitation care is also known as hospital-level, or acute, rehabilitation care. This sophisticated level of care is not available in other settings, such as nursing homes, skilled nursing facilities, assisted living centers or extended care centers. At Spaulding, the expertise and resources at our IRFs enable our staff to provide a high level of coordinated rehabilitation and medical care.
A Skilled Nursing Home and Rehab Center. We are a skilled nursing facility offering quality rehabilitative care as well as excellent long-term care. We recognize how important it is to select the right health care option to meet your individual needs. Linton Nursing and Rehab has the programs and support services to assist you and your loved one as their care needs increase or decrease. Here at Linton Nursing and Rehab you will find the comforts of home. The environment is clean, caring and friendly.
Acute rehabilitation hospitals offer distinct advantages in the level of care and services over nursing homes and assisted living facilities. Once you compare placement options, we feel confident you will choose HealthSouth. Medicare patients in our rehabilitation hospitals must be seen in person by rehabilitation physicians at least three times per week. By contrast, Medicare patients in some nursing homes may not see a physician more than once a week or in some instances even longer.
Nursing homes provide care for individuals of all ages needing 24 hour nursing care or assistance. Nursing home residents usually have complex medical and assistance needs requiring 24 hour care. While many residents remain in the nursing home for a long period of time, an increasing number of residents are. , receiving nursing care and rehabilitation after a hospital stay or illness before returning to their homes. Individuals or families typically seek nursing home care when it is no longer possible to care for a person at home safely or when the needs of the individual become so complex they cannot be provided in the home.
Short-Term Rehabilitation and Long-Term Care. From intensive short term rehabilitation therapy to longer-term restorative care, Kindred Nursing and Rehabilitation Centers provide a full range of nursing care and social services to treat and support each of our patients and residents.
When it comes to rehabilitation after illness or injury, acute care rehabilitation hospitals hold a clear advantage over other settings. Research clearly shows that outcomes are better and recovery is faster in the acute-care setting, compared to skilled nursing and nursing home care. Medicare patients in our rehabilitation hospitals must be seen in person by rehabilitation physicians at least three times per week. By contrast, Medicare patients in some nursing homes may not see a physician more than once a week or in some instances even longer.
A Community of Caring. If you or someone you care about requires short-term rehabilitation or long-term care due to illness, accident or aging, the Center for Nursing and Rehabilitation (CNR) offers the healthcare options you need to best fit your lifestyle. CNR is a member of the CenterLight Health System
Welcome to Lakeland Skilled Nursing and Rehabilitation Center located in Angola, Indiana. Lakeland Skilled Nursing and Rehabilitation Center has had the same name, serving North East Indiana residents, for over 40 years. When we first opened we were admitting 6 people per year. As with any successful and thriving enterprise we have evolved to meet the needs of 'today's generation'.