All post office branches will be closed on Columbus Day, and there will be no mail delivery to home and businesses. Branches will re-open and regular mail delivery will resume on Tuesday.
No mail delivery for Columbus Day today. UNDATED (WTVB) - Today is Columbus Day in the U.S. It marks the anniversary of Christopher Columbus' landing on the shores of the new world in 1492. It's traditionally celebrated on the second Monday of October. The federal holiday means some banks are closed and there is no mail delivery.
On a plus side, you may still receive packages from FedEx and UPS on Columbus Day. According to UPS, business will run as usual on Columbus Day, Monday, October 13, 2014. In addition, FedEx reports it is also open for business on Columbus Day this year, so there will be normal delivery service on the holiday. Unlike post offices, most restaurants and stores will be open, though it’s been reported that Costco will not be open.
The question of, “Will mail be delivered on Columbus Day?” is answered with a giant “No.” All post offices and federal offices of any kind will be closed for the holiday, which means that no businesses nor homes will get mail.
Monday is Columbus Day and those hoping to drop off letters, bills and packages at the local post office will be met with locked doors and closed signs. There will be no mail delivery or services available Monday, but express mail already en route will be delivered.
On a plus side, you may still receive packages from FedEx and UPS on Columbus Day. According to UPS, business will run as usual on Columbus Day, Monday, October 12, 2015. In addition, FedEx reports it is also open for business on Columbus Day this year, so there will be normal delivery service on the holiday. Columbus Day is always on the second Monday in October.
I assume it's the same for all locations. Columbus Day Holiday Schedule Postal Operations Will Be Limited on October 8, 2007 INDIANAPOLIS, IN — United States Postal Service operations will be limited Monday, October 8, 2007, in observance of the Columbus Day holiday.