Zookeepers need a bachelor's degree in biology, zoology, zoo technology, or some field related to animal management. Another option is a specialized two-year zookeeper degree from a community college. An associates degree is easily transferable to certain bachelor's degree programs affiliated with the two-year programs. Step 1: Earn a Bachelor's or Associate's Degree. The typical education required for zookeepers is a bachelor's degree in one of the life sciences, which includes biology, ecology, evolutionary biology, and zoology. Depending on the program, students can choose elective courses to specialize in an area such as herpetology, aquatic biology or animal behavior
Some of the most highly qualified of these would be either a veterinary, biology or a zoology degree. Essentially, you need to make sure you have at least a 2 year degree in a biological field (preferably 4 years) and must have directly related work experience. 
Zookeepers are professionals who work to educate people and care for animals in a zoo, aquarium, or animal park. Zoos employ people from a wide-variety of backgrounds, so there is no single way to guarantee a job in the field. A good education, extensive experience, and determination will help you become a zookeeper. 
The specific courses for a zookeeper depend upon the program. Colleges offer various degrees for aspiring zoologists, including associate and bachelor's levels as well as graduate programs. A zookeeper position is a career for people who love the idea of working with exotic animals and do not mind long days, dirty working conditions and potential danger on the job.
Gaining More Experience. The best degree to become a zookeeper is a degree in animal science or zoology, but you also need to keep in mind that zookeeper positions have a high level of competition. The only way you can secure a job after graduation is with the experience that employers need. Those interested in working with animals might find themselves wondering what is the best degree to become a zookeeper. A zookeeper is someone who works closely with animals. They might gain experience working with a specific species or type of animal, or they might work with dozens of different animals every day
Training. Most zookeepers get much of their training on the job. Many start out as interns or volunteers to learn more about the animals and what it takes to be a zookeepers. You can also gain similar experience working or volunteering with an animal shelter, on a farm or in a veterinary office. Working as a zookeeper requires you to be passionate about animals and wildlife conservation. You often spend more time with the animals than other zoo employees, getting to know their habits and personalities.
know if you want to be a zookeeper is that you aren't always working with the animals. Sometimes if you are in a zoo, you may need to do speeches and shows for the public and confidence and knowledge of your subject is a must. I hope this helps. As a zookeeper, you will need to have a good background in animal science, but you may also need to make presentations to visitors to the zoo, so good speaking skills are a must. There are few colleges that offer degrees in zookeeping; in the US, there are only four.