Marinara Cafe & Restaurant Hawthorne, Brisbane, Australia address. 254 Hawthorne Road, Hawthorne, Brisbane, QLD 254 Hawthorne Road Brisbane Australia. Marinara Cafe & Restaurant address, Marinara Cafe & Restaurant location. Get Directions. Very well balanced across the board including the pasta. The decor reminds me of traditional Italian restaurants I visited in Italy serval years ago, but the food is obviously suped-up to meet today's Aussie flavours. The service was good and the vibe here is great, love to return again sometime!
87 Riding Road. Hawthorne. Qld 4171. Ph: (07) 3899 0659. Fax: (07) 3899 3135. Our Hawthorne clinic is housed within the Brisbane Sports & Exercise Medicine Specialists Centre. As Eat Smart's second High Performance Centre, our Hoowong Clinic offers consultations with our Advanced Sports Dietitian Lauren. This will mean that consults with Lauren will be $120 and $60
detailed map of Hawthorne and near places. Welcome to the Hawthorne google satellite map! This place is situated in Brisbane, Queensland, Australia, its geographical coordinates are 27° 27' 40 South, 153° 3' 40. East and its original name (with diacritics) is Hawthorne. Hawthorne hotels map. The location of each Hawthorne hotel listed is shown on the detailed zoomable map. Moreover, Hawthorne hotel map is available where all hotels in Hawthorne are marked. You can easily choose your hotel by location.
Hawthorne: map | 3d map » | hotel » | car rental ». Welcome to the Hawthorne google satellite map! This place is situated in Brisbane, Queensland, Australia, its geographical coordinates are 27° 27' 40 South, 153° 3' 40. East and its original name (with diacritics) is Hawthorne. Hawthorne hotels map. The location of each Hawthorne hotel listed is shown on the detailed zoomable map. Moreover, Hawthorne hotel map is available where all hotels in Hawthorne are marked. You can easily choose your hotel by location.
Hawthorne is in the TOP 20% in QLD when comparing median price capital growth over the last year. Hawthorne gave property investors a very good capital gain figure when compared to the rest of the state, with 12.88%. Vendor discounting in Hawthorne is giving property investors an average Vendor Discount of around -3.00%. This puts suburb at number 295th in QLD when ranking the most discounted suburbs.
Hawthorne is named after the hawthorne bushes that were planted in the 1850s and 1860s by the original settler William Baynes. Hawthorne is home to several parks, and has numerous public transport options and a CityCat stop. Lourdes Hill College is an independent girls college in the heart of Hawthorne, that opened in 1916.
The Hawthorne Cinema complex, on Hawthorne Road, is a classic theatre, opened in the 1940s it contains a large curved screen-one of the largest in Brisbane, as well as 2 smaller screens. Hawthorne is home to several parks, and has numerous public transport options and a CityCat stop. Lourdes Hill College is an independent girls college in the heart of Hawthorne, that opened in 1916.
Hawthorne started as a farming district in the 1860s, and was gradually subdivided as Brisbane grew. This was helped by the introduction of ferry and tram services. Hawthorne is home to several parks, and has numerous public transport options and a CityCat stop. Lourdes Hill College is an independent girls college in the heart of Hawthorne, that opened in 1916.
Hawthorne is suburb of Brisbane, Australia, located 3 kilometres (1.9 mi) east of the CBD. Hawthorne is home to several parks, and has numerous public transport options and a CityCat stop. Lourdes Hill College is an independent girls college in the heart of Hawthorne, that opened in 1916.