A mixture is what you get when you combine two substances in such a  way that no chemical reaction occurs between the components and you  can separate them again.    …  Examples of Mixtures include:   sand and water   salt and water   sugar and salt. 1 person found this useful. 
Mixtures can either be homogeneous or heterogeneous. A homogeneous mixture is a type of mixture in which the composition is uniform and every part of the solution has the same properties. A heterogeneous mixture is a type of mixture in which the components can be seen, as there are two or more phases present. One example of a mixture is air. Air is a homogeneous mixture of the gaseous substances nitrogen, oxygen, and smaller amounts of other substances. Salt, sugar, and many other substances dissolve in water to form homogeneous mixtures. A homogeneous mixture in which there is both a solute and solvent present is also a solution.
Examples of Mixtures. Mixtures can be defined in different ways and are classified as either heterogeneous or homogeneous. A heterogeneous mixture is a mixture that does not blend smoothly throughout and in which the individual substances remain distinct. Examples of pure substances include elements. A mixture is a combination of two or more pure substances in which each pure substance retains its individual chemical properties. Mixtures can be composed of solids, liquids, or gases.
Mixtures. A mixture is made from different substances that are not chemically joined. For example powdered iron and powdered sulphur mixed together makes a mixture of iron and sulphur. 
A heterogeneous mixture is made of different substances that remain physically separate. Heterogeneous mixtures always have more than one phase (regions with uniform composition and properties). A mixture of sand and sugar is a heterogeneous mixture. 
Any substance that has uniform and unchanging composition is considered to be pure. Examples of pure substances include elements. A mixture is a combination of two or more pure substances in which each pure substance retains its individual chemical properties. Mixtures can be composed of solids, liquids, or gases.
Definition of Heterogeneous Mixtures. A mixture is a combination of two or more pure substances in which the original substances retain their chemical properties. In some mixtures, the initial substances cannot be detected after they have been mixed. 
A mixture is a composition of two or more pure substances. Mixtures are considered to be homogeneous or heterogeneous. A homogeneous mixture has a constant composition throughout and is commonly referred to as a solution. Examples of pure substances include elements. A mixture is a combination of two or more pure substances in which each pure substance retains its individual chemical properties. Mixtures can be composed of solids, liquids, or gases.
Mixture Definition: two or more substances which have been combined such that each substance retains its own chemical identity. Examples: Flour and sugar may be combined to form a mixture. Sugar and water form a mixture. Two broad categories of mixtures are heterogeneous and homogeneous mixtures. Heterogeneous mixtures are not uniform throughout the composition (e.g. gravel), while homogeneous mixtures have the same phase and composition, no matter where you sample them (e.g., air). Return to the Chemistry Glossary Index.
Mixtures are unlike chemical compounds, because: ● The substances in a mixture can be separated using physical methods such as filtration, freezing, and distillation. ● There is little or no energy change when a mixture forms. ● Mixtures have variable compositions, while compounds have a fixed, definite formula. 