What does royalty free mean? Does it mean copyright free? Nope. Royalty free generally means that you pay a one-time fee in exchange for the right to use a photograph (or some other work protected by copyright, patent, or trademark) according to agreed upon terms, with no ongoing license fees due for further use. 
A royalty payment is made to the legal owner of a property, patent, copyrighted work or franchise by those who wish to make use of it for the purposes of generating revenue or other such desirable activities. In most cases, royalties are designed to compensate the owner for the asset's use, and are legally binding. BREAKING DOWN 'Royalty'. Royalties are often expressed as a percentage of the revenues obtained using the owner's property, but can be negotiated to meet the specific needs of an arrangement.
In business, a royalty is payment for the right to use another person’s property, usually intellectual property such as a copyright, patent or franchise. BREAKING DOWN 'Royalty'. Royalties are often expressed as a percentage of the revenues obtained using the owner's property, but can be negotiated to meet the specific needs of an arrangement.
Royalties are typically agreed upon as a percentage of gross or net revenues derived from the use of an asset or a fixed price per unit sold of an item of such, but there are also other modes and metrics of compensation. A royalty interest is the right to collect a stream of future royalty payments. The payment is made by the publisher and corresponds to the agreement (license) between the writer and the publisher as with other music royalties. The agreement is typically non-exclusive to the publisher and the term may vary from 3–5 years.
You pay royalty fees to the franchisor periodically. Your contract states how much you’ll pay and when. Typically, these fees are tied to your sales of goods or services, for example a percentage of your sales. Payments may be due weekly, monthly or quarterly. Royalty fees are another franchise fee type. Your contract will provide for “continuing fees” or “continuing royalties,” made over the life of the franchise contract. Royalties are a key element when you’re looking at a franchise or negotiating your contract.
While a payment to employ a trade mark licence is a royalty, it is accompanied by a guided usage manual, the use of which may be audited from time to time. However, this becomes a supervisory task when the mark is used in a franchise agreement for the sale of goods or services carrying the reputation of the mark. The payment is made by the publisher and corresponds to the agreement (license) between the writer and the publisher as with other music royalties. The agreement is typically non-exclusive to the publisher and the term may vary from 3–5 years.
DEFINITION of 'Royalty'. A payment to an owner for the use of property, especially patents, copyrighted works, franchises or natural resources. BREAKING DOWN 'Royalty'. Royalties are often expressed as a percentage of the revenues obtained using the owner's property, but can be negotiated to meet the specific needs of an arrangement.