Origin back to top. A Schnauzer type dog has been represented in art and sculptures as early as the 1400’s. This breed is a result of crossing the Standard Schnauzer with the Affenpinscher and other small breeds. The name Schnauzer was first associated with this breed in 1879. Description back to top. The Miniature Schnauzer is a small sized dog. They are sturdy and muscular with an alert outlook. Their eyebrows, moustache and leg hair gives them a very distinctive appearance.
[ˈʃnaʊtsɐ] , plural Schnauzer, lit. translation snouter) is a dog breed that originated in Germany in the 15th and 16th centuries. The term comes from the German word for  snout  and means colloquially  moustache , because of the dog's distinctively bearded snout. The Miniature Schnauzer is the result of crossing the original schnauzer with breeds including the poodle and the affenpinscher. Miniature Schnauzers are around 1 ft (30 cm) tall at the shoulder and weigh between 14 and 20 lb (6.4 and 9.1 kg) They have high energy levels and are very intelligent dogs.
Miniature Schnauzer Dog Temperament. The miniature schnauzer deserves his place as one of the most popular terrier pets. He is playful, inquisitive, alert, spunky and companionable. He is a well-mannered house dog that also enjoys being in the middle of activities. He is less domineering than the larger schnauzers. The smallest and most popular of the schnauzers, the miniature schnauzer was developed in the late 1800s as a small farm dog and ratter in Germany.
The miniature schnauzer deserves its place as one of the most popular terrier pets. It is playful, inquisitive, alert, spunky and companionable. It is a well-mannered house dog that also enjoys being in the middle of activities. The miniature schnauzer was exhibited as a breed distinct from the standard schnauzer by 1899 in Germany, although it wasn't until 1933 that the AKC divided the standard and miniature into separate breeds. The miniature is the only schnauzer to remain in the terrier group in America.
Watch Video. The smallest and most popular of the schnauzers, the miniature schnauzer was developed in the late 1800s as a small farm dog and ratter in Germany. In fact, the miniature schnauzer is the only terrier not originating from European isle stock. The miniature schnauzer was exhibited as a breed distinct from the standard schnauzer by 1899 in Germany, although it wasn't until 1933 that the AKC divided the standard and miniature into separate breeds. The miniature is the only schnauzer to remain in the terrier group in America.
A Quick Look at the Miniature Schnauzer... The Miniature Schnauzer is a small canine that is highly active, robust and is classified as a type of terrier. They are very busy dogs that like to play and are exceptionally affectionate, devoted and enthusiastic. Mini schnauzers are intelligent and very trainable. 
The schnauzer type consists of three breeds: the giant, standard, and miniature. Toy and teacup are not breeds of schnauzer, but these common terms are used to market undersized or ill-bred miniature schnauzers. The Miniature Schnauzer is the result of crossing the original schnauzer with breeds including the poodle and the affenpinscher. Miniature Schnauzers are around 1 ft (30 cm) tall at the shoulder and weigh between 14 and 20 lb (6.4 and 9.1 kg) They have high energy levels and are very intelligent dogs.
General Appearance. The Miniature Schnauzer is a robust, active dog of terrier type, resembling his larger cousin, the Standard Schnauzer, in general appearance, and of an alert, active disposition. Faults-Type-Toyishness, ranginess or coarseness. 
The Miniature Schnauzer is a small dog with a whole lot of heart. He's always in the top 20 most popular breeds in the U.S., England, and Germany, but he's bred around the world. He needs 45 minutes of daily exercise — remember, a tired Miniature Schnauzer is a good Miniature Schnauzer. Crate training benefits every dog and is a kind way to ensure that your Schnauzer doesn't have accidents in the house or get into things he shouldn't.
Breed Information. The Miniature Schnauzer is a breed of small dog of the Schnauzer type that originated in Germany in the mid-to-late 19th century. 