Revolving Transaction. Credit cards require an application, but the repayment schedule is based on your usage of your revolving credit line if you get approved. You can use your credit cards anywhere they are accepted. Branded cards like Visa and MasterCard are accepted by many stores and service providers. Installment Transaction. You fill out a loan application to open an installment account for a major purchase. The lender reviews your credit reports and verifies other data, like your employment and income.
DEFINITION of 'Transaction'. 1. An agreement between a buyer and a seller to exchange goods, services or financial instruments. 2. In accounting, the events that affect the finances of a business and must be recorded on the books. 
Definition. The use of credit card by consumer to purchase goods or services. The purchase price of goods or services is sent through a processor for authorization; if the amount is approved it is automatically submitted to the seller. The amount is listed on the consumer's credit card statement and must be repaid. A transaction may also refer to a credit made to the consumer's credit card account, such as when a good or service is returned for a refund.
The Two Components of a Credit/Debit Card Transaction. Each time you process a credit or debit card transaction through your merchant account, you are charged an inquiry fee and a percentage of the total transaction. The inquiry fee is a flat amount, typically between 20 cents and 35 cents. The percentage charged, is typically called your credit card rate and it is variable based on the type of transaction and the type of card used.
The Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 (abbreviated FACT Act or FACTA, Pub.L. 108–159) is a United States federal law, passed by the United States Congress on November 22, 2003, and signed by President George W. Bush on December 4, 2003, as an amendment to the Fair Credit Reporting Act. 
Even if you use a debit card, offline transactions are very much like credit card transactions. Your debit card might have a Visa logo on it, for example, so it runs through the Visa network. It’s not a credit transaction, but it uses the same infrastructure. In summary, when you’re using a debit card: 
Consumer Credit Transaction Law & Legal Definition. A consumer credit transaction is defined as a transaction between a natural person and another person in which property, services or money is acquired on credit by that natural person from such other person primarily for personal, family, or household purposes.. Durham v. Cont'l Cent. Credit, 2009 U.S. Dist. 
Burke/Triolo Productions/Brand X Pictures/Getty Images. A credit transaction is a common financial activity, often conducted with a credit card. Credit gives you the ability to buy things you cannot afford to pay for all at once, and you can also use it for convenience. Installment Transaction. You fill out a loan application to open an installment account for a major purchase. The lender reviews your credit reports and verifies other data, like your employment and income.
Credit refers to the practice of borrowing money to make a purchase. Loans are a form of credit, and consumers commonly use them to buy houses, cars, motorcycles, boats and other expensive items. Installment Transaction. You fill out a loan application to open an installment account for a major purchase. The lender reviews your credit reports and verifies other data, like your employment and income.