Dental caries is the scientific term for tooth decay or cavities. It is caused by specific types of bacteria. They produce acid that destroys the tooth's enamel and the layer under it, the dentin. 
Dental caries (tooth decay) remains the most prevalent chronic disease in both children and adults, even though it is largely preventable. Although caries has significantly decreased for most Americans over the past four decades, disparities remain among some population groups. 
In contrast, only 12.1% of 2-5 year olds and 14.7% of 16-19 year olds. Untreated dental caries, or cavities, refers to untreated coronal caries, that is, caries on the crown or enamel surface of the tooth. Root tips are classified as coronal caries. Root caries are not included. For children 2–5 years of age, only dental caries in primary teeth were evaluated. 
Dental Caries (Tooth Decay). Dental caries or cavities, more commonly known as tooth decay, are caused by a breakdown of the tooth enamel. This breakdown is the result of bacteria on teeth that breakdown foods and produce acid that destroys tooth enamel and results in tooth decay. Although dental caries are largely preventable, they remain the most common chronic disease of children aged 6 to 11 years and adolescents aged 12 to 19 years. Tooth decay is four times more common than asthma among adolescents aged 14 to 17 years
early childhood caries severe dental caries that are promoted by the sugars, acids, and sometimes Streptococcus mutans in a bottle of milk or juice left in contact with a child's primary teeth; this can also occur from contact with breast milk left in a sleeping child's mouth. The development of dental caries in a debilitated patient is a concern because of the danger that infections of the teeth or gingival tissues may spead to the rest of the body.
Dental caries (tooth decay) is a major oral health problem in most industrialised countries, affecting 60–90% of schoolchildren and the vast majority of adults. Dental caries is caused by the action of acids on the enamel surface. The acid is produced when sugars (mainly sucrose) in foods or drinks react with bacteria present in the dental biofilm (plaque) on the tooth surface.
Cavities are permanently damaged areas in the hard surface of your teeth that develop into tiny openings or holes. Cavities, also called tooth decay or caries, are caused by a combination of factors, including bacteria in your mouth, frequent snacking, sipping sugary drinks, and not cleaning your teeth well. Cavities and tooth decay are among the world's most common health problems. 
Dental caries (caries is Latin for rottenness), also known as tooth decay, cavities, or caries, is a breakdown of teeth due to activities of bacteria. The cavities may be a number of different colors from yellow to black. Symptoms may include pain and difficulty with eating. The cause of caries is bacterial break down of the hard tissues of the teeth (enamel, dentin and cementum). This occurs due to acid made from food debris or sugar on the tooth surface.
Dental caries, often called cavities, are erosions of the surface of the tooth caused by the combined effects of bacteria, acids, plaque and tartar. Dental caries are common in both children and adults, and they occur most often as a result of poor dental hygiene. Dental caries usually do not require emergency medical care unless they become painful, do not respond to over-the-counter pain relievers, or progress to a tooth abscess. Treatment includes removing the decayed material with a drill and filling in the resulting hole with a stable dental material.