The Alien and Sedition acts were passed to stop aliens from having the same rights as a United States citizen. This act was also passed so that the Democratic-Republican par … ty could not criticize the Federalists who had the majority in the Congress. The Alien and Sedition Acts were comprised of 4 laws.   The Naturalization Act extended required residence from five to  fourteen years before an alien could become a cit … izen   The Alien Friends Act allowed the president to deport any alien who  seemed dangerous to peace and safety.
The Sedition Act of 1798 - 1 - Sedition Act of 1798 – a brief history of arrests, indictments, mistreatment & abuse By Gordon T. Belt First Amendment Center library manager Introduction In 1798 the Alien and Sedition Acts were signed into law by President John Adams in response to fears of an impending war with France. 
Text of the Sedition Act. The Alien and Sedition Acts were four bills that were passed by the Federalists in the 5th United States Congress and signed into law by President John Adams in 1798, the result of the French Revolution and during an undeclared naval war with France, later known as the Quasi-War. Under the Sedition Act, the Federalists allowed people, who were accused of violating the sedition laws, to use truth as a defense. The Sedition Act resulted in the prosecutions and convictions of many Jeffersonian newspaper owners who disagreed with the government.
The Alien and Sedition acts were passed because these acts targeted aliens-immigrants who were not yet citizens. One act increased the waiting period to become a legal US citizen from 5 to 14 years. Other acts gave the president the power to arrest disloyal aliens or order them out of the country during wartime. The Alien and Sedition Acts were comprised of 4 laws.   The Naturalization Act extended required residence from five to  fourteen years before an alien could become a cit … izen   The Alien Friends Act allowed the president to deport any alien who  seemed dangerous to peace and safety.
The Alien and Sedition acts were passed to stop aliens from having the same rights as a United States citizen. This act was also passed so that the Democratic-Republican party could not criticize the Federalists who had the majority in the Congress. Alien & Sedition Acts   The Sedition Act effectively made it a crime for any person to criticize the President, the Congress or the Government of the United States. The Al … ien Act empowered President Adams to arrest, detain, and deport any non-citizen he found to be a danger to the security of the nation.
No. It describes the United States in 1798 after the passage of the Alien and Sedition Acts. The strong steps that Adams took in response to the French foreign threat also included severe repression of domestic protest. A series of laws known collectively as the Alien and Sedition Acts were passed by the Federalist Congress in 1798 and signed into law by President Adams. These laws included new powers to deport foreigners as well as making it harder for new immigrants to vote. 
The Federalist majority in Congress passed the Sedition Act and President Adams signed it into law on July 14, 1798. It was set to expire on March 3, 1801, the last day of the first and--as it turned out--only presidential term of John Adams. 
The Alien and Sedition Acts were a series of four laws passed by the Federalist-controlled Congress in 1798. Federalists contended that the laws were enacted to protect the United States from subversive aliens and seditious libel at a time when the federal government was preparing for a potential war with France. 
The 4 parts of the Alien and Sedition Acts. The Alien and Sedition Acts were comprised of 4 separate acts that were enacted by the Federalist controlled Congress and signed into law by President John Adams. The purpose of which was to quell speech against the government and reduce the influence of immigration. The Naturalization Act of 1798.
The acts were denounced by Democratic-Republicans and ultimately helped them to victory in the 1800 election, when Thomas Jefferson defeated the incumbent President Adams. The Sedition Act and the Alien Friends Act were allowed to expire in 1800 and 1801, respectively. Under the Sedition Act, the Federalists allowed people, who were accused of violating the sedition laws, to use truth as a defense. The Sedition Act resulted in the prosecutions and convictions of many Jeffersonian newspaper owners who disagreed with the government.