Image by Flickr.com, courtesy of Casey Serin. The origination fee for a mortgage is a fee charged to the borrower by the lender for processing the loan. It is usually a flat percentage based upon the loan amount, and is often either .5 or 1 percent
An activation fee is typically a set amount for any account. However, an origination fee usually varies from 0.5% (half a point) to 2% (two points) of a given loan amount, depending on whether the loan was originated in the prime or the subprime market. For example, an origination fee of 3% on a £200,000 loan is £6,000
Mortgage. An origination fee is similar to any commission-based payment. If a lender takes a 1% fee for originating a loan, they will make $1,000 on a $100,000 loan, or $2,000 on a $200,000 loan. It is likely that the fee rate would be negotiated lower for bigger loans in order to obtain the valuable business. An up-front fee charged by a lender for processing a new loan application, used as compensation for putting the loan in place. Origination fees are quoted as a percentage of the total loan and are generally between 0.5% and 1% on mortgage loans in the United States.
The origination fee is usually the largest fee associated with a mortgage's closing cost, which can range from 3 percent to 6 percent of the loan amount. The origination fee for a mortgage is a fee charged to the borrower by the lender for processing the loan. It is usually a flat percentage based upon the loan amount, and is often either .5 or 1 perce
An origination fee is a fee commonly charged by a lender for processing a loan application. The origination fee may be presented in the form of points or a dollar amount. Each point is equal to 1 percent of the loan amount (e.g. two points on a $100,000 mortgage would cost $2,000). One of the last steps in the home buying process is the closing. 
Origination Fees. The loan origination fee is the fee charged by the lender for processing a loan application. Origination fees, sometimes called origination points, are generally determined as a percentage of the total loan cost and usually range from .5 percent to 1 percent, or .5 to 1 point, of the loan.
Your closing costs--the fees the lender charges for your mortgage--typically add up to several thousand dollars to cover application fees, lawyers fees, title insurance and the loan origination fee. The origination fee alone usually equals one percent of the loan amount, the Wall Street Journal states. Procedure. When you close on the mortgage loan--and the home purchase, if that's what the mortgage is for--you need to bring a cashier's check to the closing to cover the down payment and fees, including the underwriting fee.
An origination fee is what the lender charges the borrower for making the mortgage loan. Origination services include taking and processing your loan application, underwriting and funding the loan, and other administrative services. Origination fees are listed in section A of page 2 of your Loan Estimate. 
The origination fee is how lenders make money up front on your mortgage loan. Origination fees are calculated as a percentage of the total loan, usually between 0.5 and 1 percent on U.S. mortgages [source: Investopedia ]. Going back to our APR example, let's say that the second lender charges a 3 percent origination fee, plus an application fee and other costs totaling $3,820 at closing.