• LABYRINTH (noun). The noun LABYRINTH has 2 senses: 1. complex system of paths or tunnels in which it is easy to get lost. 2. a complex system of interconnecting cavities; concerned with hearing and equilibrium. Familiarity information: LABYRINTH used as a noun is rare. Dictionary entry details.
A labyrinth walk can represent a life journey, a pilgrimage to a sacred place, or a prayer bringing us to God. It can be a way of intentionally and reflectively facing a problem or issue. Sometimes you may walk the labyrinth looking for an answer. Some people do not really get a feel for the labyrinth experience until they have walked it at least three times. The center is a place and a time for illumination, meditation and prayer. Stay in the center as long you like. Visit each petal of the rose in the center.
The Labyrinth is an archetype, a divine imprint, found in all religious traditions in various forms around the world. By walking our replica of the Chartres Labyrinth, laid in the floor of Chartres Cathedral around 1220, you are rediscovering a long-forgotten mystical tradition that is insisting to be reborn. The labyrinth symbolizes the journey to the center or to self, the life journey or the path of life, or the spiritual journey – our walk with God. It is also said to represent the ongoing cycle of birth, life, death, rebirth and the process of transformation and healing.
These are Alaska's favorite last words, and they're from one of her favorite books, The General in his Labyrinth by Gabriel Garcia García, marquez márquez which is a Biography Of. Simon bolivar we never really know what the—labyrinth'is that s one of the enduring mysteries of—the Novel but alaska thinks'that it s. about suffering For Miles, it's not that he chooses the labyrinth, but he's found a personal way to escape it. He was gone, and I did not have time to tell him what I had just now realized: that I forgave him, and that she forgave us, and that we had to forgive to survive in the labyrinth.
From: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pan%27s_labyrinth. Guillermo del Toro has said the film has strong connections in theme to The Devil's Backbone and should be seen as an informal sequel dealing with some of the issues raised there. In 2004 Del Toro said: Pan is an original story. El Laberinto del Fauno literally translated means The Labyrinth of the Faun. Since in English faun (a satyr) and fawn (a baby deer) are both pronounced the same, it was believed that there would be some confusion so the English title is Pan's Labyrinth even though the faun is not the god Pan.
Pan’s Labyrinth is as much of a fairytale as it is homage to the power of fairytales. For Del Toro, himself also a teller of stories, stories are the lifeblood of culture, they are the wonder of human existence, a part of us that cannot die, one that isn’t governed by the restrictions of the natural world. This scene, that of Ofelia’s rose-story, is in a symbolic setting – the people of Spain are the men in the story, the blue flower is their political freedom and the thorns around the rose is the fascist regime. Just as her story is ending, we see Vidal, alone in his office tending to his broken pocket watch.
What does the labyrinth symbolize? The labyrinth symbolizes the journey to the center or to self, the life journey or the path of life, or the spiritual journey – our walk with God. It is also said to represent the ongoing cycle of birth, life, death, rebirth and the process of transformation and healing.
The labyrinth is a model of that path. A labyrinth is an ancient symbol that relates to wholeness. It combines the imagery of the circle and the spiral into a meandering but purposeful path. The Labyrinth represents a journey to our own center and back again out into the world. 
The Pale Man -- one of the many monstrous metaphors for fascism and evil in Pan's Labyrinth.. By Colin Walsh. Pan’s Labyrinth (2006) is as much of a fairytale as it is a story about how fairytales, and stories in general, clash with the fascism of post-Civil War Spain. This scene, that of Ofelia’s rose-story, is in a symbolic setting – the people of Spain are the men in the story, the blue flower is their political freedom and the thorns around the rose is the fascist regime. Just as her story is ending, we see Vidal, alone in his office tending to his broken pocket watch.
I think it's a misreading to see the faun as a representation of the devil. Pan represents Dionysus, a pre-Christian, feminine spirit of life and joy. The judgment that the faun is the devil is a Christian judgment, and, in the context of this film, an incorrect reading of the symbolism. Pan’s Labyrinth (Spanish title: El laberinto del fauno) is a Spanish language fantasy film written and directed by Guillermo del Torro, director of The Devil’s Backbone, Hellboy and Blade II.