You have to be aware of the temperature outside when you are painting. Many paint manufactures tell homeowners to apply paint that is solvent based when the surface temperature is above 45 degrees and latex type paint when the surface temperature is at least 50 degrees. Many paint manufactures make the recommendation that you let paint dry for at least 2 hours before the sun sets if you are painting when it is cooler outside and it is going to be a humid evening.
Take Your Home's Temperature. Before painting, check the weather report for the day's temperature and rain forecast. Ideally, you should only paint on a rain-free day when temperatures are likely to remain steady throughout your paint's expected drying time. But you aren't applying paint to the air, you're painting a home's walls. A high quality exterior paint will protect and beautify your home, but only if you first perform the proper surface prep and apply the coating under ideal weather conditions. Any exterior coating can be applied on a sunny day when temperatures fall between 50 and 85 degrees Fahrenheit.
A: If you need to paint outside with latex paint when temperatures are moving up and down like a yo-yo, I suggest you use one of the latex like Duration, Resilience, or SuperPaint. A: Whenever it's dry and warm. Although 70° F is the ideal temperature for exterior staining, the safe range spans from 50° F to 90° F. Avoid staining when humidity is high or the day after a rainstorm, and never stain in direct sunlight. As always, check the label for product-specific directions.
A: Ideally, the temperature should be in the suggested range and above the dew point for at least 48 hours after application. Colder temperatures and moisture on the surface will not allow a paint film to form properly. A: Whenever it's dry and warm. Although 70° F is the ideal temperature for exterior staining, the safe range spans from 50° F to 90° F. Avoid staining when humidity is high or the day after a rainstorm, and never stain in direct sunlight. As always, check the label for product-specific directions.
1. Temperatures. Today, this tends to hover around 40 degrees, but some premium paints--namely Sherwin Williams' Duration, Resilience, and SuperPaint--can be applied down to as low as 35 degrees. As long as you stay above that minimum temperature, you should be fine. Just as important are temperature fluctuations. Paint isn't happy when temps during the day are 105 degrees and then suddenly drop down to 43 degrees in the evening and night. For that reason, early Fall can be a good time of the year in your location to paint
Healthy Range of Temperatures. Conventional exterior latex paints can be applied when outdoor temperatures fall between 60 and 85 degrees F, although some brands advise painters that they can work on days as chilly as 50 degrees or as warm as 90 degrees. A high quality exterior paint will protect and beautify your home, but only if you first perform the proper surface prep and apply the coating under ideal weather conditions. Any exterior coating can be applied on a sunny day when temperatures fall between 50 and 85 degrees Fahrenheit.
For best results, the air temperature and the temperature of the surface to be painted should be above 50° for the entire painting and drying time. On the other end of the spectrum, you will not get the best results if the temperature is too hot (over 90°) because the paint can end up baking rather than drying. 
The 60° F guideline is ideal. The minimum application temperature on the label should be followed carefully. This typically is 50° F. for latex paints. We suggest these points: Do not apply the paint if the air temp. is below the recommended minimum, or is predicted to drop below the minimum for the next 36 hours. Q. I read from your site that exterior painting should be done when it's over 60° f. How long after application does this guideline apply....For example, the forecast calls of daytime temperatures in the mid-60's but overnight temperatures in the low 40's-Is that a go or a no go?