Posts: 889. RE: how fast does a turkey' s beard grow? Maytom is right about the spurs tellin the age. a jake will have 1/2 or less spur length. a 2 year ole tom will have spurs up to one inch long. spurs longer than an inch, will be at least a 3 year old turkey. my personal belief is a tom with 1 1/8 spurs is a 3 year old. 
5. Although beards do grow relatively fast, if you have pics now and he has 3 to 4 inches of beard, you can only expect him to put on another inch max of beard, especially because food intake, energy, and growth will most likely drop in the winter. January 25th, 2010, 05:53 PM #5. Meet you at the top. Although beards do grow relatively fast, if you have pics now and he has 3 to 4 inches of beard, you can only expect him to put on another inch max of beard, especially because food intake, energy, and growth will most likely drop in the winter. January 25th, 2010, 07:17 PM #6. GRUMPY OLD MAN.
There are also many other variable which can affect the length of a beard including: 1  Growth Rate -- Some birds simply grow beards fast enough to overcome the wear factor. 2  Habitat -- Some geographical areas have ground which is softer and does not wear the beard tips as much. 1 Growth Rate -- Some birds simply grow beards fast enough to overcome the wear factor. 2  Habitat -- Some geographical areas have ground which is softer and does not wear the beard tips as much. 3  Swampy area birds (Osceola) generally have longer beards and spurs than rocky area birds (Merriam's).
If you hold the beard of a 2-year-old gobbler under light, you’ll see the tips are mostly amber. When a gobbler is 3, his beard will have grown about 14 inches. However, few toms have beards that long because the bristles wear off at the tip at about the same rate as the beard grows. It begins growing when a bird is about 5 months old and continues to grow throughout his life, typically 4 or 5 inches per year. Spring jakes usually have 3- to 4-inch beards, though some early-hatched birds sport 5-inch beards.
The beard is a collection of filaments, or bristles, protruding from the breast of a male turkey, just below his chest. It begins growing when a bird is about 5 months old and continues to grow throughout his life, typically 4 or 5 inches per year. Spring jakes usually have 3- to 4-inch beards, though some early-hatched birds sport 5-inch beards. When a gobbler reaches 2, his beard is usually 8 to 10 inches. A beard gets its black color from melanin, a pigment that colors and strengthens feathers. The newly emerging beards of young turkeys contain little melanin, so the bristles are amber-colored
Beard Facts. Turkey beards usually grow to 9 inches long, although according to the National Wild Turkey Foundation, the longest beard ever recorded was 18 inches. Their beards grow 3 to 5 inches a year. Turkeys can have multiple beards. Two beards are common, but some hunters have reported turkeys with eight beards according to the Pennsylvania Game Commission.
The anagen phase (for head hair) lasts anywhere from two to six years, and since this is the growth phase, we can say with confidence that no man’s beard can ever grow longer than it is at six years old. Now, a man’s genetics determines how long his beard’s growth phase is. Brandon’s Beard at Two Years. Beard hair is somewhere on the spectrum between head hair and androgenic hair. It may never grow for a full six years, but it certainly grows longer than two months. Thus, it takes between two months and six years to grow a beard, depending on your genetics.
Originally Posted by Liotus212 Although beards do grow relatively fast, if you have pics now and he has 3 to 4 inches of beard, you can only expect him to put on another inch max of beard, especially because food intake, energy, and growth will most likely drop in the winter That's what I needed to know. Although beards do grow relatively fast, if you have pics now and he has 3 to 4 inches of beard, you can only expect him to put on another inch max of beard, especially because food intake, energy, and growth will most likely drop in the winter. January 25th, 2010, 07:17 PM #6. GRUMPY OLD MAN.