From arguments that there are particular and significant connections between women and nature, ecofeminism interprets their repression and exploitation in terms of the repression and exploitation of the environment. Women and nature are also united through their shared history of oppression by a patriarchal Western society. In the 1993 essay entitled Ecofeminism: Toward Global Justice and Planetary Health authors Greta Gaard and Lori Gruen outline what they call the ecofeminist framework..
As a whole, then, the book is a statement about ecofeminism, its theoretical groundings, its aims, its struggles, its ideology, and its diversity. Diamond and Orenstein contend, The presence of these different strains indicates that ecofeminism is not a monolithic, homogenous ideology (p. xii). The common view is that social movements engage in protest and direct action; however, ecofeminism calls for consciousness raising, healing, and a communion with nature. There is little direct action. Some call for concern and to be involved in crucial issues.
However, in the 1990s the advancing theories in ecofeminism began to be seen as essentialist. Through analysis done by post structural and third wave feminists it was argued that ecofeminism equated women with nature. Women and nature are also united through their shared history of oppression by a patriarchal Western society. In the 1993 essay entitled Ecofeminism: Toward Global Justice and Planetary Health authors Greta Gaard and Lori Gruen outline what they call the ecofeminist framework..
Ecofeminism Fundamentals. Ecofeminism is based on the theory that the oppression of women and the oppression of nature are fundamentally linked. Another definition suggests that discrimination and oppression based on gender, race and class are directly related to the exploitation and destruction of the environment. Some ecofeminist writers unabashedly believe such oppression is patriarchal while others choose to imply that it is.
A CHARACTERIZATION OF ECOFEMINISM. Just as there is not one feminism, there is not one ecofeminism.Ecological feminism is the name given to a variety of positions thathave roots in different feminist practices and philosophies. 
Mary Mellor (UK). Ecofeminism is a movement that sees a connection between the exploitation and degradation of the natural world and the subordination and oppression of women. It emerged in the mid-1970s alongside second-wave feminism and the green movement. The “Women and Life on Earth: Ecofeminism in the Eighties” conference held at Amherst (1980) was the first in a series of ecofeminist conferences, inspiring the growth of ecofeminist organizations and actions... -- Lois Ann Lorentzen, University of San Francisco, and Heather Eaton, Saint Paul University (2002).
Ecofeminists claim to be part of a distinct social movement. In a book on ecofeminism, Reweaving the World: The Emergence of Ecofeminism (1990), Diamond and Orenstein claim ecofeminism is a social movement and offer the book as a statement of its ideology (p. xiii). The common view is that social movements engage in protest and direct action; however, ecofeminism calls for consciousness raising, healing, and a communion with nature. There is little direct action. Some call for concern and to be involved in crucial issues.
Ecofeminism: An Overview. Ecofeminism is an activist and academic movement that sees critical connections between the domination of nature and the exploitation of women.... Ecofeminist activism grew during the 1980s and 1990s among women from the anti-nuclear, environmental, and lesbian-feminist movements. The “Women and Life on Earth: Ecofeminism in the Eighties” conference held at Amherst (1980) was the first in a series of ecofeminist conferences, inspiring the growth of ecofeminist organizations and actions... -- Lois Ann Lorentzen, University of San Francisco, and Heather Eaton, Saint Paul University (2002).
Combining the words ecology and feminism, ecofeminism embraces the idea that the oppression of women and the oppression or destruction of nature are closely connected. Elements of the feminist movement, the peace movement and the environmentalist and green movements can be seen in ecofeminism. 
Ecofeminism describes movements and philosophies that link feminism with ecology. The term is believed to have been coined by the French writer Francoise françoise'D eaubonne in her Book Le feminisme féminisme Ou (la). mort 1974 Women and nature are also united through their shared history of oppression by a patriarchal Western society. In the 1993 essay entitled Ecofeminism: Toward Global Justice and Planetary Health authors Greta Gaard and Lori Gruen outline what they call the ecofeminist framework..