You may still need a cast after the swelling goes down. Also, if your injury is swollen, both splints and casts may need to be adjusted in the first few days. As the swelling goes down, a cast or splint may become too loose. If swelling increases, the splint or cast may become too tight. Casts that are kept in good condition can stay on for several weeks. Also remember: 1  Never stick objects inside a cast or splint. 2  Don't get dirt or sand inside a cast or splint. 3  Don't apply powders or deodorants inside a cast. 4  Never break off pieces of your cast or splint or try to adjust it yourself. 5  Check the cast and the exposed skin daily.
A cast is made of hard material, probably plaster or fiberglass, and the hard material goes all the way around your arm or finger. If you touch it and the outside material is hard and it goes all the way around your arm or finger, it is a cast. First, some concepts so that you understand what I have placed on your arm! If you were seen in the emergency room with a recent fracture, you probably have a SPLINT on, not a CAST. A splint is made of hard material, probably plaster, that is only on one side of your arm or finger. The soft material, probably white cotton cast padding and beige elastic knit material, goes all around your arm and is what you see when you look at it. Feel it: if the hard material is only on one side, it is a splin
Casts are custom-made. They must fit the shape of your injured limb correctly to provide the best support. Casts can be made of plaster or fiberglass — a plastic that can be shaped. Splints or half-casts can also be custom-made, especially if an exact fit is necessary. Other times, a ready-made splint will be used. These off-the-shelf splints are made in a variety of shapes and sizes, and are much easier and faster to use. Casts and splints support and protect injured bones and soft tissue. When you break a bone, your doctor will put the pieces back together in the right position. Casts and splints hold the bones in place while they heal. They also reduce pain, swelling, and muscle spasm.
An orthopedic cast, body cast, plaster cast, or surgical cast, is a shell, frequently made from plaster, encasing a limb (or, in some cases, large portions of the body) to stabilize and hold anatomical structures, most often a broken bone (or bones), in place until healing is confirmed. It is similar in function to a splint. Plaster bandages consist of a cotton bandage that has been combined with plaster of paris, which hardens after it has been made wet. Plaster of Paris is calcined gypsum (roasted gypsum), ground to a fine powder by milling.
How to Apply a Cast to a Broken Arm. Most arm casts are made from either plaster or fiberglass and fully encase the appendage in order to hold a broken bone in place until it heals. These upper extremity casts come in two varieties: long arm casts cover the arm from the hand to just below the armpit, while short arm casts stop just below the elbow.
How to Make a Plaster Cast of an Arm. Plaster casts help an injured arm to heal. Usually applied by medical professionals, plaster casts hold the bones and muscles of the arm in place. Use these tips to make a plaster cast of the arm. 1 Do not wrap the fingers. 2  Cut the padding to go over the thumb if the padding bunches. 3  Wrap the padding around the wrist, moving up the arm towards the elbow with each rotation of the wrap. 4  Ensure that each new pass around the arm overlaps approximately 30% of the pass made before it.
Forearm or wrist fractures. Also used to hold the forearm or wrist muscles and tendons in place after surgery. Long arm cast. Applied from the upper arm to the hand. Upper arm, elbow, or forearm fractures. Also used to hold the arm or elbow muscles and tendons in place after surgery. Arm cylinder cast. Applied from the upper arm to the wrist. To hold the elbow muscles and tendons in place after a dislocation or surgery. Cotton and other synthetic materials are used to line the inside of the cast to make it soft and to provide padding around bony areas, such as the wrist or elbow. Special waterproof cast liners may be used under a fiberglass cast, allowing the child to get the cast wet.
All casts are custom-made with fiberglass or plaster. A cast wraps all the way around an injury and can only be removed in the doctor's office. A splint is like a half cast. The hard part of a splint does not wrap all the way around the injured area like it does with a cast. Also remember: 1  Never stick objects inside a cast or splint. 2  Don't get dirt or sand inside a cast or splint. 3  Don't apply powders or deodorants inside a cast. 4  Never break off pieces of your cast or splint or try to adjust it yourself. 5  Check the cast and the exposed skin daily.