A food web (or food cycle) is the natural interconnection of food chains and generally a graphical representation (usually an image) of what-eats-what in an ecological community. Another name for food web is a consumer-resource system. The base or basal species in a food web are those species without prey and can include autotrophs or saprophytic detritivores (i.e., the community of decomposers in soil, biofilms, and periphyton).
Every living organism needs energy to live. Plants get their energy from the Sun, some animals get their energy from eating plants, and other animals get energy from eating other animals. A food chain is a way of organizing living things by what they eat. It shows who's eating who. The arrows in a food chain show the flow of energy. 
Connectedness webs (or topological food webs) emphasize feeding relationships among species, portrayed as links in a food web (Paine 1980). Energy flow webs quantify energy flow from one species to another. Thickness of an arrow reflects the strength of the relationship. In a detrital food chain, dead organic matter of plants and animals is broken down by decomposers, e.g., bacteria and fungi, and moves to detritivores and then carnivores. Food web offers an important tool for investigating the ecological interactions that define energy flows and predator-prey relationship (Cain et al.
Food web is an important ecological concept. Basically, food web represents feeding relationships within a community (Smith and Smith 2009). It also implies the transfer of food energy from its source in plants through herbivores to carnivores (Krebs 2009). In a detrital food chain, dead organic matter of plants and animals is broken down by decomposers, e.g., bacteria and fungi, and moves to detritivores and then carnivores. Food web offers an important tool for investigating the ecological interactions that define energy flows and predator-prey relationship (Cain et al.
Food Chain: is a diagram that shows how food energy moves from one organism to another in a given environment. Food energy moves along the food chain when one organism eats another. Hawaiian Translation: Ku'ina Mea'ai. 
Food web is an important conceptual tool for illustrating the feeding relationships among species within a community, revealing species interactions and community structure, and understanding the dynamics of energy transfer in an ecosystem. In a detrital food chain, dead organic matter of plants and animals is broken down by decomposers, e.g., bacteria and fungi, and moves to detritivores and then carnivores. Food web offers an important tool for investigating the ecological interactions that define energy flows and predator-prey relationship (Cain et al.
Supplement. A food web is a graphical model depicting the many food chains linked together to show the feeding relationships of organisms in an ecosystem. It differs from a food chain in a way that the latter is a linear system showing a succession of organisms whereby each species is eaten in turn by another species
A food web is just another layer of the entire process. A food chain is a simplified version of what really happens in nature. Very few animals just eat one food. A food web is nature's way of making sure that there is food to go around. Let's use the simple food chain we used earlier. 
A food chain differs from a food web, because the complex network of different animals ' feeding relations are aggregated and the chain only follows a direct, linear pathway of one animal at a time. A common metric used to quantify food web trophic structure is food chain length. In its simplest form, the length of a chain is the number of links between a trophic consumer and the base of the web and the mean chain length of an entire web is the arithmetic average of the lengths of all chains in a food web. This food web of waterbirds from Chesapeake Bay is a network of food chains. Food chains are directional paths of trophic energy or, equivalently, sequences of links that start with basal species, such as producers or fine organic matter, and end with consumer organisms.
A food chain shows how each living thing gets food, and how nutrients and energy are passed from creature to creature. Food chains begin with plant-life, and end with animal-life. Some animals eat plants, some animals eat other animals. A simple food chain could start with grass, which is eaten by rabbits. Everytime animals do something (run, jump) they use energy to do so. Animals get energy from the food they eat, and all living things get energy from food. Plants use sunlight, water and nutrients to get energy (in a process called photosynthesis). Energy is necessary for living beings to grow.