Bilirubin that is bound to a certain protein is called unconjugated, or indirect, bilirubin. Conjugated, or direct, bilirubin travels freely through your bloodstream to your liver. Most of this bilirubin passes into the small intestine, but a very small amount passes into your kidneys and is excreted in your urine. This bilirubin also gives urine its distinctive yellow color.
The free, or unconjugated, bilirubin is carried by albumin to the liver, where it is converted or conjugated and made water soluble. Once it is conjugated into a water-soluble form, bilirubin can be excreted in the urine. An enzyme, glucuronyl transferase, is necessary for the conjugation of bilirubin. Either a lack of this enzyme, or the presence of drugs that interfere with glucuronyl transferase, impairs the liver's ability to conjugate bilirubin. Bilirubin. Bilirubin is the main bile pigment that is formed from the breakdown of heme in red blood cells. The broken down heme travels to the liver, where it is secreted into the bile by the liver. Normally, a small amount of bilirubin circulates in the blood.
When bilirubin is produced by the liver, it is in a lipid-soluble form; in order to be excreted from the body, it needs to be converted into the water soluble form, which called direct or conjugated bilirubin. Tweet. Bilirubin can be described as the substance which gives the bile its yellowish color. Several health experts state that it is more like a waste product that is produced by the liver, when the older cells are processed and broken down.
Conjugated bilirubin. A water-soluble form of bilirubin formed in the liver by the chemical addition of sugar molecules to unconjugated bilirubin; when present in the blood, conjugated bilirubin can become chemically bound to albumin, forming delta-bilirubin (also known as biliprotein). 
Conjugated bilirubin is another term that is used while referring to direct bilirubin. Medical experts describe conjugated bilirubin as the type of bilirubin that has been processed or conjugated into glucuronic acid. The production and the flow of this substance follow a particular pathway. Tweet. Bilirubin can be described as the substance which gives the bile its yellowish color. Several health experts state that it is more like a waste product that is produced by the liver, when the older cells are processed and broken down.
Bilirubin diglucuronide is the predominant conjugated form (80%-85%). Conjugated bilirubin is excreted into bile and delivered to the small intestine. Medical conditions and drugs that interfere with the excretion result in conjugated hyperbilirubinemia. 
A bilirubin test is used to detect an increased level in the blood. It may be used to help determine the cause of jaundice and/or help diagnose conditions such as liver disease, hemolytic anemia, and blockage of the bile ducts. If conjugated (direct) bilirubin is elevated more than unconjugated (indirect) bilirubin, there typically is a problem associated with decreased elimination of bilirubin by the liver cells. Some conditions that may cause this include: 1  Viral hepatitis. 2  Drug reactions.
bilirubin. an orange bile pigment produced by the breakdown of heme and reduction of biliverdin; it normally circulates in plasma and is taken up by liver cells and conjugated to form bilirubin diglucuronide, the water-soluble pigment excreted in the bile. bilirubin that has not been conjugated in the liver. It gives an indirect reaction to the van den bergh test. A high level of it in the blood is indicative of hemolysis or a lack of bilirubin clearance by
unconjugated bilirubin. bilirubin that has not been conjugated in the liver. It gives an indirect reaction to the van den bergh test. A high level of it in the blood is indicative of hemolysis or a lack of bilirubin clearance by the liver. Called also free
1 Indirect (or unconjugated) bilirubin. 2  This form of bilirubin does not dissolve in water (it is insoluble). 3  Indirect bilirubin travels through the bloodstream to the liver, where it is changed into a soluble form (direct or conjugated). 4  Direct (or conjugated) bilirubin. 