Aetiology: The study of the causes. For example, of a disorder. The word aetiology is mainly used in medicine, where it is the science that deals with the causes or origin of disease, the factors which produce or predispose toward a certain disease or disorder. Today in medicine one hears (or reads) that the aetiology is unknown..
etiology, aetiology. 1. the branch of medical science that studies the causes of diseases and the factors underlying their spread. 2. the accumulated knowledge of disease causes. — etiologist, n. — etiologic, etiological, adj. etiology. — aetiological, adj. Noun. 1. aetiology-the cause of a disease. etiology. cause-events that provide the generative force that is the origin of something; they are trying to determine the cause of the crash.
For other uses, see etiology. Etiology (/iːtiˈɒlədʒi/ ; alternatively aetiology) is the study of causation, or origination. The word is derived from the Greek αἰτιολογία, aitiologia, giving a reason for (αἰτία, aitia, cause; and -λογία, -logia)
For medicine, see etiology (medicine) . Etiology (/iːtiˈɒlədʒi/ ; alternatively aetiology or aetiology) ætiology is the study of, causation or. Origination the word is derived from The greek, αἰτιολογία, aitiologia giving a reason (for, αἰτία, aitia; cause -and, -λογία). logia Etiology (/iːtiˈɒlədʒi/ ; alternatively aetiology or aetiology) ætiology is the study of, causation or. origination
Split and merge into it. Answer by Karatex. Confidence votes 619. Aetiology is the study of the causes of something. In medicine, it means the study of the causes of a disease or disorder. This would be distinct from someone devoted to treating a disease or disorder, or finding a cure, though the fields may be interrelated. 
aetiology. (1) As commonly used in medical practice, cause. (2) A branch of knowledge concerned with the causes of particular phenomena; specifically, a branch of medical science concerned with the causes and origins of diseases. This definition is rarely used in the working parlance. 