Latin Meaning: The name Melissa is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Melissa is: A nymph. American Meaning: The name Melissa is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Melissa is: A nymph. Greek Meaning: The name Melissa is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Melissa is: Bee. Famous bearer: Melissa, Mythological princess of Crete transformed to a bee after learning to collect honey.
Origin of the name Melissa: Derived from the Greek melissa (a bee). The 16th century Italian poet Ariosto used the name for the good fairy who protected Bradamante and helped Ruggero escape from Atlante upon the hippogriff in the poem Orlando Furioso. From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman.
Melisa /mel-isa/ [3 sylls.] as a name for girls. Melisa's root is Greek, and the meaning of the name Melisa is bee; honey. Melisa is an alternate form of Melissa (Greek). Malysa is a common surname. 
MELISSA. Incoming search terms: biblical meaning of the name melissa, meaning of melissa in the bible, what does melissa mean in the bible, biblical meaning of Melissa, melissa name meaning and personality. 
Melissa is a given name for a female child. The name comes from the Greek word μέλισσα (melissa), honey bee, which in turn comes from μέλι (meli), honey. In Hittite melit signifies honey. Thus the name is the approximate Greek equivalent for the Hebrew name Deborah (דְּבוֹרָה), meaning bee. Melissa also refers to the plant Melissa officinalis (Lamiaceae family), known as lemon balm. Melisa is a common variant form, with others being Malissa, Melesa, Melessa, Meliza, Mellisa, Melosa, and Molissa. Melissa became a popular name in the United States during the 1950s. Very popular from the 1960s through the 1990s, today Melissa is somewhat of a rare baby name; in 2010, fewer than 2,500 girls were given the name, compared with around 10,000 in 1993 and well over 30,000 at the name's peak popularity in 1979.
Meaning & History. Means bee in Greek. This was the name of a nymph that cared for young Zeus in Greek mythology. It is also the name of the fairy who helps Rogero escape from the witch Alcina in Ludovico Ariosto's poem 'Orlando Furioso' (1516). As an English given name, Melissa has been used since the 18th century.
Meaning of Melissa. Greek name. In Greek, the name Melissa means-a honey bee.The name Melissa originated as an Greek name. The name Melissa is most often used as a girl name or female name. Greek Name Meaning-a honey bee. Origin-Greece.
Melissa is a very popular first name for women (#30 out of 4276, Top 1%) and a slightly less popular last name for all people (#98770 out of 150436, Top 66%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the birth name popularity of Melissa for girls. Melissa /mel-is-sa/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced ma-LISS-ah. It is of Greek origin, and the meaning of Melissa is bee; honey. Mythology: the name of a princess of Crete who was changed into a bee after she found out how to collect honey. The name was used since ancient Greece. Singer Melissa Manchester; actress Melissa Gilbert; dancer Molissa Fenley