Elliott is a very popular first name for males (#572 out of 1220, Top 47%) and also a very popular last name for all people (#197 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Elliott for boys. Elliott reached its apex position of #233 in the U.S. in 2014. (2014 Birth Statistics). Popular related forms of Elliott (#233 a year ago) rated in the Top 1000 are Eli (#49 a year ago) , Eliot and Elliot (#217) . Elliott /el-li-ott/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name. The meaning of the name Elliott is Jehovah is God. Elliott is a version of Elliot (Greek, Hebrew): variant of Elie
Notes: Elliot is a name with English origins. The meaning of the name Elliot is The Lord is My God. Elliot is originally from the name Elijah. Nicknames for the name Elliot include Ell, Et, and Lio. Famous Elliots include actor Elliot Gould. Singers, musicians, and composers include Elliott Yamin, Elliot Carter, and Elliot Easten. 
Elliot (also spelled Eliot, Elliott, Eliott and Elyot) is a personal name which can serve as either a surname or a given name. Although the given name was historically given to males, females named Elliot have increased from 414 in 2009 to 770 in 2013. The origin of the surname is obscure, perhaps due to much of the genealogy of the Eliott clan being burnt in the destruction of the castle at Stobs in 1712 AD. Among the many famous people with this name are the authors T. S. Eliot and George Eliot (pseudonym of Mary Ann Evans). Jane Austen 's last completed novel Persuasion includes characters belonging to the Elliot family of Kellynch Hall; Sir Walter Elliot, Bart., and his daughters Anne and Elizabeth.
Greek Meaning: The name Elliot is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Elliot is: The Greek form of the Hebrew Elijah, meaning Jehovah is God. American Meaning: The name Elliot is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Elliot is: The Greek form of the Hebrew Elijah, meaning Jehovah is God. English Meaning: The name Elliot is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Elliot is: God on high; my God is Jehovah. From a surname derived from a medieval abbreviation of the Greek Elias. French Meaning: The name Elliot is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Elliot is: Believes in God. Scottish Meaning: The name Elliot is a Scottish baby name. In Scottish the meaning of the name Elliot is: Old Welshman.
Greek Meaning: The name Elliott is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Elliott is: The Greek form of the Hebrew Elijah, meaning Jehovah is God. American Meaning: The name Elliott is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Elliott is: The Greek form of the Hebrew Elijah, meaning Jehovah is God. English Meaning: The name Elliott is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Elliott is: God on high; my God is Jehovah. From a surname derived from a medieval abbreviation of the Greek Elias.
Origin of the name Elliott: Transferred use of the surname that originated as a diminutive of the Old French Ēlie, a cognate of the Hebrew Elijah (Jehovah is God). The name received a boost in popularity due to the central character in the popular movie E.T. Var: Eliot, Eliott, Elliott.
This interesting surname has a number of possible origins. Firstly, it may derive from the medieval given name Elis the normal vernacular form of Elijah meaning Jehovah is God, plus the diminutive suffix ot. 
Some other sources suggest it may be derived from a French form of Elias, which is itself derived from the biblical name  Elijah . Yet other sources claim that the Scottish surnames (Eliott, Elliot) originate from the Ellot Scottish border-clan, from a transformation of the name Elwold. Among the many famous people with this name are the authors T. S. Eliot and George Eliot (pseudonym of Mary Ann Evans). Jane Austen 's last completed novel Persuasion includes characters belonging to the Elliot family of Kellynch Hall; Sir Walter Elliot, Bart., and his daughters Anne and Elizabeth.
Elliott is a variant spelling of Elliot. The given name Elliot is a transferred use of the English surname that was derived from a dimunitive (nickname) of the French Norman name Elie. Elie itself is the old French form of the Greek name Elias. Elias in turn, is the Greek, New Testament form of the biblical Hebrew name Elijah or Eliyahu