1 Coconut oil improves overall skin health, and clears up skin conditions such as eczema, flea allergies, contact dermatitis, and itchy skin. 2  Incredibly emollient, coconut oil helps moisturize the driest skin and makes a dog’s coat gleam with health — whether you add it to her diet, her shampoo, or both! Coconut oil can have many health benefits for dogs -- for their skin, digestive, and immune systems; metabolic function; and even their bone and brain health! Julia Szabo | Mar 31st 2015.
Not only can coconut oil be taken internally, it can also be applied topically on our dogs. When used topically, coconut oil can: 1  Disinfect cuts and promote wound healing. 2  Improve our dogs' skin and hair condition, making the hair coat smooth and shiny. 3  It can also eliminate the dog's body odor. 
Large amounts of coconut oil given to a dog or cat can cause diarrhea or greasy stools while his/her body adjusts to the change in diet. Start with small amounts, such as ¼ teaspoon per day for small dogs or puppies and 1 teaspoon for large dogs, or even just a dab if your dog's or cat's constitution is sensitive. You can drizzle the coconut oil on top of your dog’s and cat's kibble or other food. The recommended maximum dosage is: 1  ¼ teaspoon for every 10lbs of body weight twice daily, or. 2  ½ teaspoon for every 10lbs of body weight once daily.
1 Coconut oil may clog pores and stick to your pet's fur and gathers dirt, and that can be detrimental and will only make your pet scratch himself more. 2  So, alternatively, you can give him a coconut oil massage just a day before his bath and then wash it all off with shampoo the next day. Rub into the fur or skin of your dog where he/she has fleas, dry flaky skin, raw skin from scratching, or a loss of fur. It will be a bit oily of course, but rub it in very, very well.
Large amounts of coconut oil given to a dog can cause diarrhea or greasy stools while his body adjusts to the change in diet. Start with small amounts, such as ¼ teaspoon per day for small dogs or puppies and 1 teaspoon for large dogs, or even just a dab if your dog’s constitution is sensitive. allnaturalpethealth.com. Giving coconut to your pet is an excellent health decision and can improve your pet’s quality of life, but there is a right way and wrong way to start supplementing your dog or cat’s diet with coconut oil.
And unlike most herbal products that are good for your dog’s health, coconut is something that your dog will most probably love to eat. They will most likely gobble up the coconut oil and not be too picky with it. Just as humans can get a bit nutty for coconut, so can our beloved buddies. Virgin coconut oil means that it is unrefined, and it can be used for both dogs and humans. Lauric acid, a medium chain fatty acid, can help prevent bacterial and viral infections. This is most commonly found in a mother’s milk and builds the immune system.
It also improves the digestion of your dog and becomes medicine for most digestive upsets. The thyroid function is also kept normal with coconut oil. It can give your dog a smooth glossy coat, as well as healthy, supple skin. Yeast and fungal infections are also treated and prevented through the use of coconut oil. Arthritis and similar pains can also be minimized or treated. Coconut can also balance your dog’s metabolism rate to keep his weight under control. Virgin coconut oil means that it is unrefined, and it can be used for both dogs and humans. Lauric acid, a medium chain fatty acid, can help prevent bacterial and viral infections. This is most commonly found in a mother’s milk and builds the immune system.
1 Incredibly emollient, coconut oil helps moisturize the driest skin and makes a dog’s coat gleam with health — whether you add it to her diet, her shampoo, or both! 2  Applied topically to the skin, coconut oil promotes the healing of cuts, wounds, hot spots, bites, and stings. Coconut oil can have many health benefits for dogs -- for their skin, digestive, and immune systems; metabolic function; and even their bone and brain health! Julia Szabo | Mar 31st 2015.
Coconut oil improves a dog's breath. If brushing your dog's teeth isn't your favorite task, try brushing their teeth with coconut oil. It will improve their breath and the teeth brushing experience, because dogs love the taste of coconut oil. Coconut oil is excellent for a dog's skin and coat health. Not only does coconut oil offer relief to dry, itchy skin, it improves the look and feel of a dog's coat when fed regularly. You can also apply coconut oil topically, improving the look, feel and smell of your dog's coat. It can also help sooth dry paws. Coconut oil is naturally antibacterial. Applied topically or ingested, extra virgin coconut oil has many health benefits for dogs and your pups will love the taste. And if you're looking to take a break from the fishy smell of salmon and Pollock oil, consider adding coconut oil to your dog's rotation.