Below are pet medications that may be prescribed for cats. These medications for cats come in different dosage forms. You can narrow your search below or use the search tool at the top of this page to find more. 
The standard dose used to block receptors in dogs and cats is 3-5 mg/kg SID. It may be given on a continual basis if needed, though in most cases it can be given daily for 7-14 days and then discontinued until pain worsens again. Amantadine is available as 100 mg capsules, 100 mg tablets, and a 10 mg/ml oral liquid. Because of tramadol’s monoamine reuptake inhibition, it should be used with caution if given with TCAs, SSRIs, or MAO inhibitors due to the risk of serotonin syndrome. In dogs, a starting dose of 3-5 mg/kg TID (up to 5 mg/kg QID) works well, though higher dose (10 mg/kg TID-QID) can be used if needed.
The extended-release tablets and capsules are prescribed for patients who need round-the-clock pain relief. Safe dosage of tramadol varies based on the patient and his or her needs. For chronic pain, doctors often prescribe a low dose at first, usually after surgery. It is also important not to suddenly stop taking tramadol, according to the NIH. Doing so may cause withdrawal symptoms, such as nervousness, panic, sweating, difficulty falling asleep, runny nose, chills, nausea, diarrhea and hallucinations. Your doctor will likely decrease your dose gradually.
1. Cats will be excluded if they miss more than one tramadol dose/week or if they develop important adverse effects (frequent nausea, vomiting, pruritus, seizures, serotonin syndrome, gastrointestinal bleeding or diarrhea, excessive sedation or dysphoria). 2. Tramadol will be given orally at four different doses (0 mg/kg or placebo, 1 mg/kg, 2 mg/kg and 4 mg/kg) twice per day during five consecutive days/dose to 24 client-owned, senior cats (10 years old or older).
Tramadol for dogs and cats. For dogs and cats, tramadol is used often as a pain reliever for post-surgery pain or chronic conditions such as cancer or arthritis, said Dr. Greg Nelson, a veterinarian with Central Veterinary Associates, in Valley Stream, New York. It is also important not to suddenly stop taking tramadol, according to the NIH. Doing so may cause withdrawal symptoms, such as nervousness, panic, sweating, difficulty falling asleep, runny nose, chills, nausea, diarrhea and hallucinations. Your doctor will likely decrease your dose gradually.
not feeling any swelling or heat. Dr_Karla: her dose would be 6 mg, which is 1/8 of a tablet. hard to cut down like that. Mostly with cats, they shoot out a lot of endorphins when they are injured, so you may want to let her rest on it and see how she looks in the morning,without any meds. Def cannot give tylenol or advil or anything like that. Although tramadol is a strong opiate, I have given it to cats. sometimes cats can have reactions to certain opiates. Although tramadol is a strong opiate, I have given it to cats. Dr_Karla: i do need a weight, though.
It is also used as a cough suppressant in pets. It's most often used in dogs, though it can be used for cats as well. (The pill comes in 50-milligram capsules, and cats usually take 10 mg tablets, Nelson said. It is also important not to suddenly stop taking tramadol, according to the NIH. Doing so may cause withdrawal symptoms, such as nervousness, panic, sweating, difficulty falling asleep, runny nose, chills, nausea, diarrhea and hallucinations. Your doctor will likely decrease your dose gradually.
Tramadol for pain. Discuss Tramadol for pain on the - 'Cat Health & Nutrition' forum of I-Love-Cats. We are the place for all talk about 'Tramadol for pain'. I'm going to be starting my senior lady Ootay on tramadol for arthritis pain. My vet and I have been talking about this for a long time, but I keep ..
Read More. Tramadol is a non-narcotic, non-steroidal pain killer. Most reports indicate that it is less likely to cause the nausea and other side effects that can result from extended use narcotic and NSAID pain killers. Since you cat has chronic pain (arthritis), it is probably a better choice for longer term, low dosage use. No drug is completely safe or without potential side effects. But given the particulars about your cat, tramadol seems to be a good choice with a good balance of effectiveness vs. Hello Tramadol Warriors! If you are looking to get some help coming off Tramadol, this is a good place for you. People here are in all stages of beating this terrible drug.