For the same reasons you'd do anything else in the cloud. Let the cloud provider (Caspio in this case but there are other Access-like databases in the cloud) worry about the hardware and the scalability issues so you can stay focused on the value that your business gets out of a database. In my interview of him, Zamani even admitted We made it look like Access.. Zamani doesn't pitch Caspio as the Microsoft Access of the cloud. He'd probably get sued for trademark misappropriation. But nothing prevents me from calling it that because that's exactly what it is.
By Timothy Dyck Among the Web-based databases, Caspio Bridge stands out for its efforts to look and act like traditional database software. It's written in Dynamic HTML and run locally by the Web browser. The application downloads blocks of code when each of its various functions is accessed for the first time. The toolbar and buttons on the main Caspio Bridge Explorer window let you create and edit the two basic objects in the softwaretables and DataPages (which Caspio Bridge calls database entry and search forms)as well as configure security settings.
Marya Summers. We use Caspio to create online databases. With the app you can also create web applications and web forms. The best thing about Caspio is that it requires no programming and that´s exactly what I was looking for. There are no technical hurdles! Caspio Bridge Second to None Verified Reviewer 26th of May 17:06 Max Baer, Independent Program Development ProfessionalIt is a rare occasion that I take time out of my very busy day to write a review but Caspio is simply the best.
1 Quality – Caspio DataPages require no coding eliminating room for error while traditional programming is about crafting code one line at a time, the quality of which depends on the individual programmer and is be error prone. Apps are for the most part a collection of DataPages that are designed to provide the functionality of the app for the end users. DataPages are built in your Caspio Bridge account and deployed externally to a website or portal where users interact with them.
Caspio DataPages can be embedded on any website and integrate seamlessly for a professional user experience where your users remain on your website to use an application or a single DataPage such a web form. Apps are for the most part a collection of DataPages that are designed to provide the functionality of the app for the end users. DataPages are built in your Caspio Bridge account and deployed externally to a website or portal where users interact with them.
Product [edit]. Caspio is a cloud platform for creating business database applications without requiring development skills. Tech-savvy business users can create web forms, publish data or create complete custom applications such as a customer relationship management (CRM) without coding. Caspio was founded in 2000 by Frank Zamani, the President and CEO. The company released the first version of Caspio Bridge in 2001and had followed up with frequent regular updates and enhancements since then. Caspio is a privately held corporation.
As your database grows more complex, you may find specific needs that can be answered by creating a view. Benefits of using views in Caspio: 1  Views can be used to filter a very large table, making the structure and record count more manageable. 2  Views are often used in Authentications to create role based functionality in your app. 3  Views can be used to join multiple tables. 
DataPages are user interfaces of your application, such as web forms and search/display interfaces. Apps are for the most part a collection of DataPages that are designed to provide the functionality of the app for the end users. DataPages are built in your Caspio Bridge account and deployed externally to a website or portal where users interact with them.
While it may look and feel like Microsoft Access, Caspio.com is most definitely not Microsoft Access. But it does many of the things that Microsoft Access promises to do for its users, only from the cloud. In my interview of him, Zamani even admitted We made it look like Access.. Zamani doesn't pitch Caspio as the Microsoft Access of the cloud. He'd probably get sued for trademark misappropriation. But nothing prevents me from calling it that because that's exactly what it is.
Caspio, Inc. is a global cloud platform for creating custom business applications without coding. Headquartered in Santa Clara, California, USA. Caspio was founded in 2000 by Frank Zamani, the President and CEO. The company released the first version of Caspio Bridge in 2001and had followed up with frequent regular updates and enhancements since then. Caspio is a privately held corporation.