Booking. Street Team. “Whiskey Tango is a fermented mash of bluegrass and jam distilled through the copper coils of rock, aged in psychedelica and served straight-up from a mason jar of fun. Whiskey Tango @ The Armoury! Friday 2.6. We are pumped to be playing for the first time at one of Denver's great newer venues, The Armoury. We have a ticket giveaway contest going on for the show.
Welcome to Whiskey Tango Globetrot. And to that initial blog post that seems to always get buried and that nobody reads but grandma. But wait! Before you go, I’ve lured many of you here with promises of travel giveaways. For the launch of Whiskey Tango Globetrot I’ve partnered with a number of different brands that I’ve previously worked with in one way or the other. That began at the official Whiskey Tango Globetrot launch party last week at the Blind Barber (see photos from the event below).
And now Whiskey Tango Globetrot is the by-product of all of that. Whiskey Tango Globetrot is where all of my interests and expertise in food, drink, and travel has converged. For the launch of Whiskey Tango Globetrot I’ve partnered with a number of different brands that I’ve previously worked with in one way or the other. That began at the official Whiskey Tango Globetrot launch party last week at the Blind Barber (see photos from the event below).
Q: Dude, you are so whiskey tango. Also, a well known phrase about hillbillies can be modified like so-. You can take the billy out of the hill, but you cant take the hill out of the billy, yields: You can take the whiskey out of the tango, but you cant take the tango out of the whisky. Military call sign for the letters W T, short for white trash. Can be used to communicate secretly even in the presence of white trash. Obviously more popular as slang within the military community. Credit to Chico from the Peleliu.
Code for white trash. Using the military pheonetic alphabet, whiskey for w and tango for t. This same principle can be used for a multitude of other common phrases. Look, she is smoking a 300mm cigarrette and used 2 cans of hair spray. whiskey tango, over. Military call sign for the letters W T, short for white trash. Can be used to communicate secretly even in the presence of white trash. Obviously more popular as slang within the military community. Credit to Chico from the Peleliu.
Alpha, Bravo, Charlie and so on.. The expression cuss like a sailor made the Navy look unprofessional or so they say-so in an effort to clean up the language used by Officers and Superiors. Whiskey Tango Foxtrot. was adopted and has since then spread to the online community.
Whiskey Tango Foxtrot  is the first episode of the eleventh season of the American police procedural drama NCIS, and the 235th episode overall. It originally aired on CBS in the United States on September 24, 2013. In the aftermath of the Season 10 finale, Gibbs' team has been left divided as Tony and McGee attempt to adjust to life as civilians while Ziva has returned home to Israel.
David Shafer’s first book, “Whiskey Tango Foxtrot,” is a paranoid, sarcastic and clattering pop thriller that reads as if it were torn from the damp pages of Glenn Greenwald’s fever journal. “Whiskey Tango Foxtrot” follows three characters, each in his or her 30s, each vivid and loose-limbed. Two of them, Leo and Mark, were best friends at Harvard. (Mr. Shafer graduated from Harvard and the Columbia Journalism School. He now lives in Portland, Ore.).
Whiskey Tango is the Midwest's largest entertainment complex reccenlty voted the #1 spot to meet people in the KANSAS CITY METRO AREA featuring Country music,your requests nightly,and MECHANICAL BULL! 1 Tuesday BOOZEday Ladies Night- Country dance classes sign up with KAREN HEDGES sign up at This e-mail address is being protected from spam bots, you need JavaScript enabled to view it /ANYBODY CAN ENTER 8 BALL TOURNAMENT CA$H PRIZE starts 9pm!