Full Definition of FORBEARANCE. 1. : a refraining from the enforcement of something (as a debt, right, or obligation) that is due. 2. : the act of forbearing: patience. 3. : the quality of being forbearing: leniency. See forbearance defined for English-language learners. See forbearance defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
The basic dictionary definition of forbearance is refraining from the enforcement of something.. Refraining from the enforcement of something could be a debt, a right we have, an obligation that has come due and needs to be paid, etc. This is a legal-sounding definition. The idea of forbearance arises in the Bible under different words. It is controlling oneself when provoked or offended. Its synonyms show us some of the nuances of forbearance : patience, leniency.. Leniency does not mean that one allows something to continue. A more strict definition is that one does not give the full punishment for something or the full amount of something.
Patience is a progressively learned grace, and has various levels, all of which must be developed within the Christian’s character. The Scriptures, and life’s experiences themselves, suggest four progressive aspects to this grace of patience: 1) Forbearance; 2) Longsuffering; 3) Endurance; and 4) Constancy. The key to understanding God’s great exercise of forbearance is his knowledge that only by doing so will mankind eventually learn the exceeding sinfulness of sin, and also that he has a plan in place that will eventually bring about man’s release from sin’s stranglehold.
FORBEARANCE. Forbearance is the most basic form of patience, and it is most likely the aspect that the world understands something about—whether they actually practice it or not. As used in the Scriptures, the meaning of forbearance is similar to how most people would define patience. The key to understanding God’s great exercise of forbearance is his knowledge that only by doing so will mankind eventually learn the exceeding sinfulness of sin, and also that he has a plan in place that will eventually bring about man’s release from sin’s stranglehold.
Additional Links. Specifically, a refraining from the enforcement of a punishment; generally, a synonym for patience. Forbearance makes it possible to influence a ruler (Proverbs 25:15 NAS; patience NIV, NRSV; patient persuasion TEV). Jeremiah prayed that God not take him way in His forbearance (Proverbs 15:15 NRSV), that is, that God not be so patient with Jeremiah's enemies as to allow them to destroy him. God is able to maintain God's reputation as a righteous judge in spite of God's overlooking the past sins of Israel and the present sins of those who place faith in Christ (Romans 3:26), because the cross was an effective sacrifice of atonement.
FORBEARANCE, n. 1. The act of avoiding, shunning or omitting; either the cessation or intermission of an act commenced, or a withholding from beginning an act. Liberty is the power of doing or forbearing an action, according as the doing or forbearance has a preference in the mind.
Look up forbearance in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. In the context of a mortgage process, forbearance is a special agreement between the lender and the borrower to delay a foreclosure. The literal meaning of forbearance is “holding back.”. Loan borrowers sometimes have problems making payments. This may cause the lender to start the foreclosure process. 
Longsuffering is similar to forbearance in its meaning and application. The chief difference is that longsuffering, as suggested by the word itself, is a type of forbearance which is not just exercised in the immediate moment of an experience. The key to understanding God’s great exercise of forbearance is his knowledge that only by doing so will mankind eventually learn the exceeding sinfulness of sin, and also that he has a plan in place that will eventually bring about man’s release from sin’s stranglehold.