Passive Interface (RIP,OSPF and EIGRP) explained with interview questions. by Shabeer ibm. Passive-interface command is used in all routing protocols to disable sending updates out from a specific interface. However the command behavior varies from o­ne protocol to another. In EIGRP the passive-interface command stops sending outgoing hello packets, hence the router can not form any neighbor relationship via the passive interface. This behavior stops both outgoing and incoming routing updates.
The Default Passive Interfaces feature simplifies the configuration of distribution devices by allowing all interfaces to be set as passive by default. In ISPs and large enterprise networks, many distribution devices have more than 200 interfaces. Before the introduction of the Default Passive Interfaces feature, routing information could be obtained from these interfaces in these ways: 1  Configure a routing protocol such as Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) on the backbone interfaces and redistribute connected
Passive-interface command behavior in RIP, EIGRP & OSPF. Posted in EIGRP, IGP, OSPF, RIP | 21 Comments ». Passive-interface command is used in all routing protocols to disable sending updates out from a specific interface. However the command behavior varies from o­ne protocol to another. In EIGRP the passive-interface command stops sending outgoing hello packets, hence the router can not form any neighbor relationship via the passive interface. This behavior stops both outgoing and incoming routing updates. In OSPF the passive-interface has a similar behavior to EIGRP.
Passive interface default command can be used in both EIGRP and OSPF like we used in RIP. Always remember, that the passive-interface command will prevent EIGRP (and OSPF) from forming neighbor relationships out of that interface. No routing updates are passed in either direction. In EIGRP the passive-interface command stops sending outgoing hello packets, hence the router can not form any neighbor relationship via the passive interface. This behavior stops both outgoing and incoming routing updates.
In routers that have a small number of interfaces, you can choose to manually set the 'passive-interface' command on the interfaces where adjacency is not desired, instead of using the 'passive-interface default' command. Verification Commands. To verify that interfaces on your network have been set to passive, use the command show ip ospf interface and look for the report indicating No Hellos (Passive interface).
You can set all interfaces as passive by default by using the passive-interface default command and then configure individual interfaces where adjacencies are desired using the no passive-interface command. Before the introduction of the Default Passive Interfaces feature, routing information could be obtained from these interfaces in these ways: 1  Configure a routing protocol such as Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) on the backbone interfaces and redistribute connected interfaces.
The passive interface Command. With EIGRP running on a network, the passive-interface command stops both outgoing and incoming routing updates, since the effect of the command causes the router to stop sending and receiving hello packets over an interface. The command enables the suppression of routing updates over some interfaces while it allows updates to be exchanged normally over other interfaces. With most routing protocols, the passive-interface command restricts outgoing advertisements only.
The two routers are not neighbors any more. Here is the output of the show ip eigrp neighbors after you enter the passive-interface command. When the passive-interface command is used in EIGRP, the router cannot form neighbor adjacencies on the interface, or send or receive routing updates. The command enables the suppression of routing updates over some interfaces while it allows updates to be exchanged normally over other interfaces. With most routing protocols, the passive-interface command restricts outgoing advertisements only.
Introduction. You can use the passive-interface command in order to control the advertisement of routing information. The command enables the suppression of routing updates over some interfaces while it allows updates to be exchanged normally over other interfaces. With most routing protocols, the passive-interface command restricts outgoing advertisements only.
To prevent these problems, one can set all interfaces as passive by default with the 'passive-interface default' command. This command changes the configuration logic to a default passive; therefore, interfaces where router adjacencies are expected need to be configured with the 'no passive-interface' command. Verification Commands. To verify that interfaces on your network have been set to passive, use the command show ip ospf interface and look for the report indicating No Hellos (Passive interface).