Photo of Thomas Newcomen's Atmospheric Steam Engine. The pipe is used for the purpose of keeping the upper side of the piston covered with water, to prevent air leaks­ an invention of Thomas Newcomen. Two gauge-cocks, and a safety valve, are represented in the photo.
Thomas Newcomen Facts. The English inventor and engineer Thomas Newcomen (1663-1729) developed the first practical steam engine, an important feature of the industrial revolution. Thomas Newcomen was born on Feb. 24, 1663, at Dartmouth, Devonshire.
Born in Dartmouth in 1663, Thomas Newcomen made a significant contribution to the industrial revolution with his invention of the atmospheric engine. By 1685 Newcomen had set himself up as an ironmonger in his home town.
In 1712 Newcomen invented the world's first successful atmospheric steam engine. The engine pumped water using a vacuum created by condensed steam. It became an important method of draining water from deep mines and was therefore a vital component in the Industrial Revolution in Britain.
The English inventor and engineer Thomas Newcomen (1663-1729) developed the first practical steam engine, an important feature of the industrial revolution. Thomas Newcomen was born on Feb. 24, 1663, at Dartmouth, Devonshire.
Thomas Newcomen. Thomas Newcomen was a prominent British engineer, best known for inventing the atmospheric steam engine, which was the the world’s oldest known steam engine for pumping water. The Newcomen engine largely influenced later designs such as James Watt’s engine.
Newcomen's steam revolution. Inventor Thomas Newcomen (1663-1729) designed the world's first successful atmospheric steam engine. His invention earned him a place as one of the pioneers of the Industrial Revolution.
Newcomen was an ironmonger by profession, but made a significant contribution to the Industrial Revolution with his invention of the atmospheric steam engine. Thomas Newcomen was born in Dartmouth, Devon in 1663 and established himself as an ironmonger in his home town.