Acute urticaria: Hives lasting less than six weeks. The most common causes are certain foods, medications, or infections. Insect bites and internal disease may also be responsible. The most common foods that cause hives are nuts, chocolate, fish, tomatoes, eggs, fresh berries, and milk. Fresh foods cause hives more often than cooked foods. A. A. A. Urticaria, also known as hives, is an outbreak of swollen, pale red bumps or plaques (wheals) on the skin that appear suddenly -- either as a result of the body's reaction to certain allergens, or for unknown reasons. Hives usually cause itching, but may also burn or sting
Allergies, exercise, and detergents are common causes of hives in adults. In addition, hives are idiopathic, meaning that the cause of some cases is unknown. Food and medication allergies are very common and likely the culprit if the adult recently tried a new medication or food. An allergic reaction to detergent may cause hives in adults. Allergies to nuts may cause hives in adults. Certain medications may cause hives in adults. Allergies to shellfish, like oysters, can cause hives.
Hives may occur as a result of exercising. An allergic reaction to detergent may cause hives in adults. Allergies to nuts may cause hives in adults. Certain medications may cause hives in adults. Allergies to shellfish, like oysters, can cause hives. Hives
When you have an allergic reaction to a substance, your body releases histamine and other chemicals into the blood. This causes itching, swelling, and other symptoms. Hives are a common reaction. Persons with other allergies, such as hay fever, often get hives. When swelling or welts occur around the face, especially the lips and eyes, it is called angioedema. Swelling can also occur around your hands, feet, and throat. 
In physical urticaria, the hives have a physical cause, such as exposure to heat, cold or pressure. Common triggers include: 1  Rubbing or scratching (simple dermographism). 2  This is the most frequent cause of physical urticaria. 
Acute hives are most common in children and young adults, and chronic hives are more often seen in females, especially middle-aged women. Hives are very common; it is estimated that up to 20% of the population may develop them at some point in their lives. 
In adults, reactions to medicines are a common cause of acute hives. Medications known to cause hives or angioedema include aspirin and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen, high blood pressure medicines known as ACE-inhibitors, or pain-killers containing codeine or codeine-like drugs. Allergic skin conditions can take several forms and are due to various causes. Hives and angioedema Hives or urticaria are red, itchy, swollen areas of the skin that can range in size and appear anywhere on the body.
About Hives (urticaria). We explain the hives, the most common causes, symptoms, body parts most likely affected, treatment, & tips for controlling urticaria. The hives (urticaria) is a harmless type of rash or skin allergy that is usually caused by an allergy. The rash consists of circular, raised welts on the skin that are usually itchy and occur in batches. Hives can vary in size, from a few millimeters to several centimeters in diameter. The most common skin allergy triggers that cause hives include: • Medication such as antibiotics, codeine, penicillin, sulfa, anticonvulsant drugs, phenobarbital, and aspirin. • Foods like shellfish, nuts, tomatoes, soy, chocolate, and berries. • Pollen.
These skin problems are often caused by an immune system reaction, signifying an allergy. Allergic skin conditions can take several forms and are due to various causes. Hives and angioedema Hives or urticaria are red, itchy, swollen areas of the skin that can range in size and appear anywhere on the body.