The most prevalent of the stratified epithelia is the squamous variety. As a keratinized or waterproofed component of the skin, stratified squamous epithelium provides substantial protection against friction, microbial invasion and dessication. Stratified epithelia are found covering the exterior body surfaces and lining portions of the body tracts where friction phenomena occur. A multilayered epithelium allows deeper cells to replace the more superficial cells as they are damaged or cast off from the epithelial free surface.
10 most extreme places on Earth. Stratified columnar epithelium is a type of epithelial tissue composed of two or more layers of columnar epithelial cells. Epithelial tissue is one of the body’s primary tissues and lines the surfaces and insides of structures in many parts of the body. A rare type of this tissue, stratified columnar epithelium, is only found in a few places in the body, including parts of the anus, conjunctiva in the eye, uterus, and pharynx. Epithelial tissue is classified in two ways: based on structure, and based on form and function.
A pseudostratified columnar epithelium is a special type of simple epithelium that consists of a falsely-stratified single layer of epithelial cells resting on a basement membrane. Many, if not most, of the cells, are columnar. 
These can be arranged in a single layer of cells as simple epithelium, either squamous, columnar or cuboidal, or in layers of two or more cells deep as stratified (layered), either squamous, columnar or cuboidal. All glands are made up of epithelial cells. 
1 Pseudostratified epithelia are simple epithelia that appear to be stratified when they are viewed in section, even though they are truly simple epithelia. 2  Shape of Cells. 3  In squamous epithelia, the outermost layer is flattened. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A stratified squamous epithelium consists of squamous (flattened) epithelial cells arranged in layers upon a basal membrane. Only one layer is in contact with the basement membrane; the other layers adhere to one another to maintain structural integrity. Although this epithelium is referred to as squamous, many cells within the layers may not be flattened; this is due to the convention of naming epithelia according to the cell type at the surface. In the deeper layers, the cells may be columnar or cuboidal.
The layers may include stratified squamous, stratified columnar, or stratified columnar ciliated types of cells. There are various subtypes of stratified epithelium, named for the type of cells on the surface (e.g., stratified squamous epithelium, stratified columnar epithelium). (strat'i-fīd ep'i-thē'lē-ŭm). A type of epithelium composed of a series of layers, the cells of each varying in size and shape. It is named more specifically according to the type of cells at the surface, e.g., stratified squamous epithelium, stratified columnar epithelium, stratified ciliated columnar epithelium.
The principle structural types are simple and stratified. Simple epithelium has only one layer of cells, while stratified epithelium has two or more layers. The form and function classifications of epithelial tissue are cuboidal, squamous, and columnar. A rare type of this tissue, stratified columnar epithelium, is only found in a few places in the body, including parts of the anus, conjunctiva in the eye, uterus, and pharynx. Epithelial tissue is classified in two ways: based on structure, and based on form and function.
Stratified columnar epithelium is a type of epithelial tissue composed of two or more layers of columnar epithelial cells. A rare type of this tissue, stratified columnar epithelium, is only found in a few places in the body, including parts of the anus, conjunctiva in the eye, uterus, and pharynx. Epithelial tissue is classified in two ways: based on structure, and based on form and function.
Stratified columnar epithelium is a rare type of epithelial tissue composed of column shaped cells arranged in multiple layers. Stratified columnar epithelia are found in the ocular conjunctiva of the eye, in parts of the pharynx and anus, the female's uterus, the male urethra and vas deferens. Also found in Lobar ducts in salivary glands. The cells function in secretion and protection.