A complete blood count (CBC) gives important information about the kinds and numbers of cells in the blood, especially red blood cells, white blood cells, and platelets. A CBC helps your doctor check any symptoms, such as weakness, fatigue, or bruising, you may have. 
Each time you have a CBC, you’ll find numbers for each part in your results. Keep in mind that normal ranges may be slightly different for men and women. The 5 parts of a CBC are:  White blood cell (WBC) count White blood cells help your body fight off infections. The normal range for WBC is 5 to 10 K/uL. Your CBC will also measure what’s called the ANC (absolute neutrophil count) That’s the specific number of white blood cells in your blood that fight infection. Patient Education 2 Understanding your complete blood count  Hematocrit (HCT) value The hematocrit value measures how much of your total blood count is made up of red blood cells. The normal range for HCT is 36 to 52%.
An average normal range for white blood cells is between 4,500 and 10,000 mcl. Abnormal test results are classified by numbers that are higher or lower than this range. It’s important to note that age can also affect the number of white blood cells, with infants having a higher count than adults. If your white blood cell count remains high or low, this can indicate that your condition has worsened and your doctor may adjust your treatment. If your WBC count shows a normal range, this indicates that the treatment is working.
It is normal for doctors to order a complete blood count and check your WBC count during an annual physical examination. Your doctor may recommend a WBC count if you complain of persistent body aches, fever, chills, or headaches. If your white blood cell count remains high or low, this can indicate that your condition has worsened and your doctor may adjust your treatment. If your WBC count shows a normal range, this indicates that the treatment is working.
A. Roughly between 4,500 and 10,000 cells per microliter (one one-thousandth of a milliliter). The white blood cell count is part of a complete blood count (CBC), one of the most common blood tests. Automated cell counting machines count the number of cells present in a blood sample. Different laboratories use different cell counting machines, and each lab may have slightly different values for the normal range. Certain medications, such as oral corticosteroids, also increase the white blood cell count. A low white blood cell count (leukopenia) is less common. Certain medications, infections, inflammatory and autoimmune conditions, heavy alcohol use, and problems in the bone marrow can cause a low
A high white blood cell count (leukocytosis) is most often due to an infection, but can occur during many different illnesses. Certain medications, such as oral corticosteroids, also increase the white blood cell count. A low white blood cell count (leukopenia) is less common. Certain medications, infections, inflammatory and autoimmune conditions, heavy alcohol use, and problems in the bone marrow can cause a low white blood cell count.
The white blood cell count (WBC) is a component of a complete blood cell count (CBC) and is the enumeration of white blood cells in a small volume of whole blood. The testing is performed on an automated hematology analyzer. The total white blood cell count is expressed as an absolute number and is further divided into subtypes of white blood cells by a differential WBC count, which is expressed as a percentage and absolute number.
White blood cell count (WBC). The number of white blood cells in a volume of blood. Normal range varies slightly between laboratories but is generally between 4,300 and 10,800 cells per cubic millimeter (cmm). This can also be referred to as the leukocyte count and can be expressed in international units as 4.3 - 10.8 x 109 cells per liter. What is a normal white blood cell count in an adult? There are normally between 4×109 and 1.1×1010 white blood cells in a litre of blood, making up approximately 1% of blood in a healthy adult.
A WBC count is a test that measures the number of white blood cells in your body. This test is often included with a complete blood count (CBC). Your blood contains a percentage of each type of white blood cell. Sometimes, however, your white blood cell count can fall or rise out of the healthy range. If your white blood cell count remains high or low, this can indicate that your condition has worsened and your doctor may adjust your treatment. If your WBC count shows a normal range, this indicates that the treatment is working.
Certain medications also can cause white blood cell counts to drop. If your white blood cell count is higher than normal, you may have an infection or inflammation. Or, it could indicate that you have an immune system disorder or a bone marrow disease. A high white blood cell count can also be a reaction to medication. 1  Platelet count. 