A simple alkyl group is a functional group made up entirely of carbon and hydrogen where the carbon atoms are chained together by single bonds. The general molecular formula for simple alkyl groups is-C n H 2n+1 where n is the number of carbon atoms in the group. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Alkyl groups are substituents that have one less H (hydrogen atom) than the corresponding alkane. For eg, -CH3 (methyl) group has has one less hydrogen that the the corresponding alkane, CH4 (methane)
alkyl group. (ăl`kĭl) , in chemistry, group of carbon and hydrogen atoms derived from an alkane alkane, any of a group of aliphatic hydrocarbons whose molecules contain only single bonds (see chemical bond). Alkanes have the general chemical formula CnH2n+2......
alkyl group (ălˈkĭl) [ key ], in chemistry, group of carbon and hydrogen atoms derived from an alkane molecule by removing one hydrogen atom (see radical). The name of the alkyl group is derived from the name of its alkane by replacing the-ane suffix with-yl, e.g., methyl, CH. The Columbia Electronic Encyclopedia, 6th ed. Copyright © 2012, Columbia University Press. All rights reserved
Vocabulary alkane alkyl group hydrocarbon An alkyl group is a piece of a molecule with the general formula CnH2n+1, where n is some integer. For example, a methyl group (CH3) is a fragment of a methane molecule (CH4); n = 1 in this case. The-yl ending means a fragment of an alkane formed by removing a hydrogen. An alkyl group is a piece of a molecule with the general formula C n H 2n+1, where n is some integer. For example, a methyl group (CH 3) is a fragment of a methane molecule (CH 4); n = 1 in this case. The-yl ending means a fragment of an alkane formed by removing a hydrogen. Vocabulary
An alkyl group is a univalent radical consisting of carbon and hydrogen atoms, with one H atom less than their alkane counterparts. They form homologous series with a general formula of CnH2n+1, while the general formula of the alkanes is CnH2n+2. Best Answer: Alkyl groups are substituents that have one less H (hydrogen atom) than the corresponding alkane. For eg, -CH3 (methyl) group has has one less hydrogen that the the corresponding alkane, CH4 (methane)
Alkyl group. Definition: An alkyl is a functional group of an organic chemical that contains only carbon and hydrogen atoms, which are arranged in a chain. They have general formula C n H 2n+1. Examples include methyl CH 3 (derived from methane) and butyl C 2 H 5 (derived from butane). An alkyl is a functional group of an organic chemical that contains only carbon and hydrogen atoms, which are arranged in a chain. They have general formula C n H 2n+1.