Mallory /mal-lo-ry/ [3 sylls.] as a boys' name (also used more generally as girls' name Mallory) is of Old French origin, and the meaning of Mallory is unlucky. From malheure. A nickname transferred to a surname and then given name. Originally a man's name, though common for girls now. Poet Sir Thomas Malory. Mallory is an uncommonly occurring first name for men but a very prominent surname for all people (#1944 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the baby name popularity of Mallory for boys. Mallory has not been ranked in the Top 1000 so far.
Origin of the name Mallory: Transferred use of the English surname of French origin. It is derived from the Old French maloret, malore (maloré the unfortunate, one the unlucky). one My name is Mallory and my middle name is Elise; together they sound better: Mallory Elise. I was named after the characters in Family Ties.. My parents named me Mallory Elyse-same as the person above, big fans of Family Ties, different spelling of middle name.
Mallory /mal-lo-ry/ [3 sylls.] as a girls' name (also used less commonly as boys' name Mallory) is pronounced MAL-or-ee. It is of Old French origin, and the meaning of Mallory is unlucky. Surname that became used as a girl's name during the 1980s due to the character Mallory on the TV series Family Ties. (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Mallory for girls. Mallory entered the list in 1980-1989 and reached its peak position of #162 in the U.S. in the year 1990, and is presently at #384.
Meaning of Mallory. German name. In German, the name Mallory means-War counselor.. Other origins for the name Mallory include-German, French, English, French, French.The name Mallory is a unisex name and can be used for a boy or girl name (male or female). German Name Meaning-War counselor. Origin-German
Meaning of Mallory. English name. In English, the name Mallory means-Surname popular as a girls name due to popular character Mallory on the TV series Family Ties.. Other origins for the name Mallory include-English, French, German, French, French, German.The name Mallory is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-Surname popular as a girls name due to popular character Mallory on the TV series Family Ties. Origin-English
The name Mallory is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Mallory is: War counselor. French Meaning: The name Mallory is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Mallory is: Unfortunate; ill fated. Derived from an Old French surname. Latin Meaning: The name Mallory is a Latin baby name
Mallory is a very prominent first name for women (#812 out of 4276, Top 19%) and also a very prominent surname for all people (#1944 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Mallory for girls. Mallory entered the list in 1980-1989 and reached its peak position of #162 in the U.S. in the year 1990, and is presently at #384.
The given name Mallory represents a transferred use of the English surname. It is derived from the Norman French malheure meaning unfortunate, unhappy, unlucky and was originally used as a nickname for such a person. Variants of the name Mallory include Malerie, Mallorie, Malorie, Malory.