Often clients will present with a pelvis where one side is higher or rotated forward more than the other. Although this is often dismissed as a difference in leg lengths, true differences in leg lengths are rare. Typically, the cause is a muscle imbalance pulling on one side of the pelvis in relation to the other. This makes it appear that one leg is longer than the other. It also contributes to a rotated spine and back pain. There are several muscles attaching to the front of the pelvis which can potentially alter pelvic alignment. They are the tensor fascia lata (TFL), rectus femoris, and sartorius muscles. Poor habits, i.e., standing asymmetrically, can cause one side of the pelvis to develop tighter muscles than the other side. This pulls that side of the pelvis forward and down, creating a rotated pelvis. Pelvic rotation can create height differences between the two hips
Learn what often causes a pelvic rotation and how to correct it with a simple stretch applied judiciously. Personal Training with Corrective Exercise and Orthopedic Massage in Palo Alto/Menlo Park: http://uprighthealth.com. LIKE on Facebook! http://facebook.com/uprighthealth. 
Rotation means trouble. There are many causes of pain in the lower back, buttocks and hips. One common problem involves a rotation of one side of your pelvis. It is often preceded by prolonged sitting, running or a fall. If you place your hands on your hips, your thumbs will rest just above your pelvic joints called the sacroiliac joints
pelvic rotation, one of the five major kinematic determinants of gait, involving the alternate rotation of the pelvis to the right and the left of the body's central axis. The usual pelvic rotation occurring at each hip joint in most healthy individuals is approximately 4 degrees to each side of the central axis. 
By AmeeL Leave a Comment. Posterior pelvic tilt is a condition characterized by the pelvis being pulled downward in back, causing the lumbar arch to decrease. This condition can cause back, hip and leg pain. Causes. Posterior pelvic tilt is caused by muscle imbalances in the core and legs. 
1 One or both pronated or supinated feet can cause rotation of the legs, which causes discomfort or pain at the hip. 2  To compensate, the pelvis tilts to lessen the strain at the hip joint. 3  That tilt eventually hurts the low back and destabilizes the body’s core. Pelvic rotations we discuss here occur in two directions about a side-to-side axis through the hip sockets: 1  Anterior pelvic tilt – Where the top edge of the pelvis (iliac crest) is rotated forward and bottom edge (pubic bone) is rotated backward.
The final diagnosis for the cause of your pain may be degenerative disc disease or its related diagnosis of lumbar disc herniation. When in fact the actual cause of your lower back pain condition is a tilted pelvis. The disc degeneration or lumbar disc bulge may actually be the resultant outcome of a pelvic tilt. 
Anterior pelvic tilt occurs when the pelvis rotates anteriorly around the hip joint along a transverse axis. This creates excessive hip flexion and an excessive loordosis at the lumbar spine in a static posture. There are a number of different causes of anterior pelvic tilt. 
By AmeeL Leave a Comment. Anterior pelvic tilt is a condition characterized by the pelvis being tilted forward so that the front part of the pelvis is lower than the back. This causes the stomach and buttocks to protrude. Anterior pelvic tilt can cause a number of symptoms and should be corrected in order to avoid chronic pain. Causes. The most common cause of anterior pelvic tilt is muscle imbalance. Balanced muscles in the legs, buttocks, hips, stomach and back keep the pelvis in a neutral position. 