The standard Lovenox dose for preventing blood clots in people who are acutely ill (and are immobilized) is 40 mg once daily, typically for 6 to 11 days.
In patients with acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction, the recommended dose of Lovenox is a single IV bolus of 30 mg plus a 1 mg/kg SC dose followed by 1 mg/kg administered SC every 12 hours (maximum 100 mg for the first two doses only, followed by 1 mg/kg dosing for the remaining doses).
The standard dosage of Lovenox for preventing blood clots in people undergoing abdominal (stomach) surgery is 40 mg once daily for 7 to 10 days, starting two hours before surgery.
The maximum dose of enoxaparin should be 150 mg SC Q 12 h. For a patient receiving a dose of enoxaparin of 130 mg to 150 mg (i.e., patient weight 130 kg to 150 kg or greater), the low molecular weight heparin assay may be a useful monitoring tool.
The standard dosage of Lovenox for preventing blood clots in people undergoing hip replacement surgery is 30 mg twice daily for 7 to 10 days, starting 12 to 24 hours after surgery. An alternative dosage of 40 mg once daily for three weeks, starting 12 hours before surgery, may also be used. The standard Lovenox dose for preventing blood clots in people undergoing knee
In outpatient treatment, patients with acute deep vein thrombosis without pulmonary embolism who can be treated at home, the recommended dose of Lovenox is 1 mg/kg every 12 hours administered SC.
Your recommended dose of Lovenox will depend on your body weight, health condition, and other factors such as your kidney function. For instance, if you are taking Lovenox to prevent blood clots after a heart attack, the dose is often 1 milligram for every 2.2 pounds of body weight every 12 hours for two to eight days.
Unstable Angina and Non-Q-Wave Myocardial Infarction: In patients with unstable angina or non-Q-wave myocardial infarction, the recommended dose of Lovenox is 1 mg/kg administered SC every 12 hours in conjunction with oral aspirin therapy (100 to 325 mg once daily).