Executive functioning deficits characterize the neuropsychological profiles of the childhood neurodevelopmental disorders of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and autistic spectrum disorder (ASD). 
Children with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) often exhibit autistic traits, which can lead to even greater problems with socialization, according to new research presented at the 26th European College of Neuropsychopharmacology (ECNP) Congress. 
ADHD vs. Autism. Although they share many of the same symptoms, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and autism are very different disorders. ADHD is a neurobehavioral disorder that makes it difficult for sufferers to focus, stay organized, and listen to direction. It’s estimated that ADHD affects 3 to 5 percent of kids in the United States. In contrast, autism is a developmental disorder that affects the way a person communicates and interacts with others. Estimates say three to six in every 1,000 kids in the United States has autism
“Basically, ADHD (completely known as Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder) is when a person indulges in too much activity to the point that he can no longer focus his attention to a given object or task under normal circumstances.”. That is the most misleading load of BS. Autism is a more complex developmental disorder that affects many developmental dimensions of the individual. When at 3 years old, the child demonstrates certain significant restrictions in communication, interaction and behavior (repetitive) then most likely he is autistic.
A. A. Bipolar disorder and ADHD, or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, are two conditions that are increasingly being diagnosed in American children and teens, often together. And interestingly, in children and teens, there are some similarities in the symptoms of the two conditions. In addition, symptoms of ADHD often mimic symptoms of bipolar disorder. With ADHD, a child or teen may have rapid or impulsive speech, physical restlessness, trouble focusing, irritability, and, sometimes, defiant or oppositional behavior. Children or teens with bipolar disorder often have similar behaviors.
Although they share many of the same symptoms, attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and autism are very different disorders. It’s estimated that ADHD affects 3 to 5 percent of kids in the United States. In contrast, autism is a developmental disorder that affects the way a person communicates and interacts with others.
Doctors make their diagnoses based on children’s behaviors. Since children with Attention Deficit Disorder and Asperger Syndrome share similar behaviors, the two can appear to overlap. However, there is a fundamental difference between Attention Deficit Disorder and Asperger Syndrome.
Introduction. ADHD or Attention Deficit Hyperactive Disorder is one of the commonest neurobehavioural disorders of children and affects around 5 to 10% of children. Asperger’s syndrome is also known as Asperger’s disorder and is now classified as an Autism spectrum disorder. Differences in causes. Summary: ADHD and Asperger’s syndrome are both disorders of the behaviour and parents should be very alert about the symptoms. ADHD can be resolved if the child is raised with a lot of care and special attention, but Asperger’s syndrome will is impossible to cure as the exact cause is unknown.