Dubai’s population in 1975 was 183,200. Today it is about 1.67 million. The travel time from New York City to Dubai is 12 hours, 30 minutes. About 15% to 20% of the world’s cranes are currently operating in Dubai. Burj Al Arab, a seven-star hotel, (pictured right) is the tallest offshore structure in the world.
East. Dubai is located on the Persian Gulf, in the northeast of the United Arab Emirates. Dubai is the second largest emirate with an urban area of 3885 sq km and the city is roughly 35 sq km. However it will expand to twice that size with the addition of the man-made islands; the Waterfront, the three Palms, the World, the Universe, Dubailand, as well as the construction in the desert. Dubai’s population stands at an estimation of 1.5 million, with three quarters of the population being male. The city of Dubai is made up of a multicultural society; with only 5% of local Emiratis, the rest are expatriates from all over the world.
Dubai has emerged as a global city and business hub of the Middle East. It is also a major transport hub for passengers and cargo. By the 1960s Dubai's economy was based on revenues from trade and, to a smaller extent, oil exploration concessions, but oil was not discovered until 1966. Dubai is situated on the Persian Gulf coast of the United Arab Emirates and is roughly at sea level (16 m or 52 ft above). The emirate of Dubai shares borders with Abu Dhabi in the south, Sharjah in the northeast, and the Sultanate of Oman in the southeast.
Dubai geography is highlighted by Dubai's location on the North-Eastern coast of the Arabian Peninsula. Dubai is the largest of all United Arab Emirates and together all the separate Emirates form of one united country. 
As of 2012, Dubai is the 22nd most expensive city in the world and the most expensive city in the Middle East. In 2014, Dubai's hotel rooms were rated as the second most expensive in the world, after Geneva. Dubai is situated on the Persian Gulf coast of the United Arab Emirates and is roughly at sea level (16 m or 52 ft above). The emirate of Dubai shares borders with Abu Dhabi in the south, Sharjah in the northeast, and the Sultanate of Oman in the southeast.
Dubai (/duːˈbaɪ/ doo-BY; Arabic: دبي ‎ Dubayy, [dʊˈbɑj]) is the most populous city in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). It is located on the southeast coast of the Persian Gulf and is one of the seven emirates that make up the country. Abu Dhabi and Dubai are the only two emirates to have veto power over critical matters of national importance in the country's legislature. Dubai is situated on the Persian Gulf coast of the United Arab Emirates and is roughly at sea level (16 m or 52 ft above). The emirate of Dubai shares borders with Abu Dhabi in the south, Sharjah in the northeast, and the Sultanate of Oman in the southeast.
Dubai population includes more men than women. The ratio of men and women in Dubai is 3:1. According to the survey carried out by the Statistical Center of Dubai, the. population of Dubai was 1,422,000 as of 2006, among which 1,073,000 were males and 349,000 were females. About 71% of Dubai population consists of foreigners and expatriates and 3% is categorized as western. Emigrates in Dubai mostly include Asians, mainly from India, Bangladesh, Pakistan and Filipino.
The population of Dubai is 2,109,274. Approximately 85% of the expatriate population (and 71% of the emirate's total population) was Asian (chiefly Indian, Pakistani, Filipino, Bangladeshi and Sri Lankan). About 25% of the population have Iranian origin. About 3% of the total population of Dubai was categorized as  Western . In addition, 16% of the population (or 288,000 people) lived in collective labour accommodation were not identified by ethnicity or nationality, but were thought to be primarily Asian.
By Amanda Briney. Dubai is the largest emirate based on population of the United Arab Emirates. As of 2008, Dubai had a population of 2,262,000. It is also the second largest emirate (behind Abu Dhabi) based on land area. Dubai is located along the Persian Gulf and it is considered to be within the Arabian Desert (map). 7) Dubai is located on the Persian Gulf and it shares a border with Abu Dhabi to the south, Sharjah to the north and Oman to the southeast. Dubai also has an exclave called Hatta which is located about 71 miles (115 km) east of Dubai in the Hajjar Mountains.