vector, v., vectorial adj. An MRI term for a force which is commonly represented as an arrow. The length of the line segment represents the magnitude, and its orientation in space represents its direction. 
1. Let T be the set of all terms, such as key words on a web page. A term vector is a sparse vector in N^|T| where N is the natural numbers. Each component of the term vector could indicate whether that term occurs in a search or a web page, or how many times that term occurs in a search or a web page.
Each dimension corresponds to a separate term. If a term occurs in the document, its value in the vector is non-zero. Several different ways of computing these values, also known as (term) weights, have been developed. One of the best known schemes is tf-idf weighting (see the example below). The definition of term depends on the application. If words are chosen to be the terms, the dimensionality of the vector is the number of words in the vocabulary (the number of distinct words occurring in the corpus). Vector operations can be used to compare documents with queries.
Part of the Computing fundamentals glossary: A vector is a quantity or phenomenon that has two independent properties: magnitude and direction. The term also denotes the mathematical or geometrical representation of such a quantity. Examples of vectors in nature are velocity, momentum, force, electromagnetic fields, and weight. 
vector. n. 1. (Mathematics) Also called: polar vector maths a variable quantity, such as force, that has magnitude and direction and can be resolved into components that are odd functions of the coordinates. It is represented in print by a bold italic symbol: F or ̄F. Compare pseudoscalar, pseudovector, scalar 1, tensor 2. vector sum, resultant-a vector that is the sum of two or more other vectors. radius vector-a line connecting a point in space to the origin of a polar coordinate system. radius vector-a line connecting a satellite to the center of the body around which it is rotating.
1. Google states that a term-vector algorithm can be used to determine popular keywords. I have studied http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vector_space_model, but cant understand the term term-vector algorithm. Please explain it in a brief summary, very simple language, as if the reader is a child. Let T be the set of all terms, such as key words on a web page. A term vector is a sparse vector in N^|T| where N is the natural numbers. Each component of the term vector could indicate whether that term occurs in a search or a web page, or how many times that term occurs in a search or
Vector space model or term vector model is an algebraic model for representing text documents (and any objects, in general) as vectors of identifiers, such as, for example, index terms. It is used in information filtering, information retrieval, indexing and relevancy rankings. If words are chosen to be the terms, the dimensionality of the vector is the number of words in the vocabulary (the number of distinct words occurring in the corpus). Vector operations can be used to compare documents with queries.
In the classic vector space model proposed by Salton, Wong and Yang the term-specific weights in the document vectors are products of local and global parameters. The model is known as term frequency-inverse document frequency model. If words are chosen to be the terms, the dimensionality of the vector is the number of words in the vocabulary (the number of distinct words occurring in the corpus). Vector operations can be used to compare documents with queries.
1. a: a quantity that has magnitude and direction and that is commonly represented by a directed line segment whose length represents the magnitude and whose orientation in space represents the direction; broadly: an element of a vector space b: a course or compass direction especially of an airplane. 2
Vector graphics is the use of geometrical primitives such as points, lines, curves, and shapes or polygons —all of which are based on mathematical expressions—to represent images in computer graphics. Vector graphics are based on vectors (also called paths), which lead through locations called control points or nodes. The term vector graphics is mainly used today in the context of two-dimensional computer graphics. It is one of several modes an artist can use to create an image on a raster display.