Dow used a sea water process in Freeport Texas (up to 1998) . This this consisted of adding calcined dolomite to sewater to produce magnesium hydroxide whic was then filtered and reacted with Hydrochloric acid. 
Magnesium is dissolved in sea water at a concentration of about 1,000 parts per million and is the only metal directly extracted from sea water. Every cubic kilometer of seawater contains about 1.3 billion kilograms of magnesium (12 billion pounds per cubic mile). At present, around 60 percent of the magnesium metal and many of the magnesium salts produced in the United States are extracted from sea water electrolytically. In 1997, about 110,000,000 kg of magnesium was produced in the United States. Most of this magnesium was extracted from sea water. In fact, there is enough magnesium dissolved in the Earth’s oceans to supply all of our magnesium needs for the next 1,000 years. Magnesium is also extracted from highly concentrated brine wells, and, the fascinating thing is, it is also possible to extract magnesium from seawater. Brine wells can be found in numerous places all over the world, and they have been used historically as a source of salt as well as magnesium.
There are six sources of raw materials for the production of magnesium: magnesite, dolomite, bischofite, carnallite, serpentine and sea water. These sources differ in the magnesium content, in production methods, and in their origin. Some are mined from mines, some in open mining, others originate in various processes carried out on sea water and salt lakes, and another material originates from the waste of the asbestos production process. Magnesium Extraction From Sea Water. The history of elementary magnesium started in 1755,when Joseph Black, a Scottish chemist, discovered that magnesia contained a new element, magnesium.
Dow Process. In the Dow process is magnesium hydroxide is precipitated from sea water by slurrying with calcined dolomite and then converting it to magnesium chloride by reacting it with hydrochloric acid. This product is dried to 1,5 moles of water and introduced directly into the cells. 
If only magnesium were less expensive. According to researchers at the Pacific Northwest National Laboratory (PNNL), based in Washington State, USA, the magnesium used in the production of lightweight alloys for cars and aeroplanes is seven times more costly than the steel employed in the same applications.
Project Innovation + Advantages: PNNL is developing a radically new process to produce magnesium from seawater. Today's methods are energy intensive and expensive because the magnesium concentration in seawater is so low that significant energy is needed to evaporate off water and precipitate magnesium chloride salt. Critical Need: Primary production of lightweight metals such as magnesium is an energy-intensive and expensive process that results in significant carbon dioxide (CO2) and other emissions.
(i) Production of pure magnesium chloride from sea water or brine. Where sea-water is the raw material, it is treated with dolomite which has been converted to mixed oxides by heating to a high temperature. Magnesium hydroxide precipitates, while calcium hydroxide remains in solution. Uses of magnesium. Magnesium is the third most used metal in construction (after iron and aluminium). Magnesium alloys, typically containing over 90% magnesium, have a very low density, comparatively high strength and excellent machinability.
Conversion to magnesium chloride is achieved by heating the oxide, mixed with carbon, in a stream of chlorine at a high temperature in an electric furnace (Figure 1). Figure 1 Illustrating the production of magnesium chloride from magnesium oxide. Uses of magnesium. Magnesium is the third most used metal in construction (after iron and aluminium). Magnesium alloys, typically containing over 90% magnesium, have a very low density, comparatively high strength and excellent machinability.
PROCESS FOR PRODUCING MAGNESIA FROM SEAWATER The chemistry of the process is relatively simple. First, dolomite is decomposed in a rotary kiln at 1350-1400~ The calcination reaction is CaMg(CO3) 2 ~ MgO. CaO + CO2 dolomite dolime The dolime is then hydrated MgO. CaO + H20 ~ MgO. Magnesia also is used in the form of calcined refractory magnesite brick and as a chemical addition in the manufacture of chrome, olivine and other refractories. The industrial importance of magnesia is due to its chemical behaviour and this is largely determined by the position of magnesium in the periodic table.