A pregnancy ultrasound is an imaging test that uses sound waves to create a picture of how a baby is developing in the womb. It is also used to check the female pelvic organs during pregnancy.
(Ultrasound waves are also used in the handheld instrument called a Doppler that your practitioner uses during your prenatal visits to listen to your baby's heartbeat .). You may have an early ultrasound at your practitioner's office at 6 to 10 weeks to confirm and date the pregnancy. Or you may not have one until the standard midpregnancy ultrasound between 16 and 20 weeks.
Ultrasound scans. Ultrasound scans use sound waves to build a picture of the baby in the womb. The scans are completely painless, have no known side effects on mothers or babies, and can be carried out at any stage of pregnancy. Talk to your midwife, GP or obstetrician about any concerns you have.
During this ultrasound, the doctor will confirm that the placenta is healthy and that your baby is growing properly in the uterus. The baby's heartbeat and movement of its body, arms and legs can also be seen on the ultrasound. If you wish to know the gender of your baby, it can usually be determined by 20 weeks.
Early ultrasound. If you've experienced problems, such as a previous miscarriage or bleeding in the first weeks of this pregnancy, your doctor or midwife may recommend an early ultrasound. This takes place when you're between six weeks and 10 weeks pregnant.
An ultrasound is a painless diagnostic test that relies on sound waves, and most women will have at least one during pregnancy. Your first ultrasound will typically be done between 18 and 20 weeks, but you may have one before 12 weeks to confirm your due date.
Dating ultrasound. In most cases, where there are no problems, you'll have two ultrasounds during your pregnancy. The first will be your dating ultrasound which is booked between 10 weeks and 13 weeks plus six days of your pregnancy. During your dating ultrasound, the sonographer will put gel on your belly and move a hand-held device, called a transducer, over your skin. You'll then be able to see a view of your baby.