Emphysema is a form of chronic (long-term) lung disease, usually caused by smoking. Because of lung damage, people with emphysema have difficulty blowing air out. The major symptom of emphysema is shortness of breath. In most people, symptoms of emphysema are slowly progressive. Virtually everyone with emphysema experiences shortness of breath, especially with exertion. Many people with emphysema develop some of the other emphysema symptoms: 1  Wheezing: This symptom of emphysema is shared with asthma.
Emphysema gradually damages the air sacs (alveoli) in your lungs, making you progressively more short of breath. Emphysema is one of several diseases known collectively as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Smoking is the leading cause of emphysema. Your lungs' alveoli are clustered like bunches of grapes. In emphysema, the inner walls of the air sacs weaken and eventually rupture — creating one larger air space instead of many small ones.
Emphysema is a chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) that presents as an abnormal and permanent enlargement of air spaces distal to the terminal bronchioles. It frequently occurs in association with obstructive pulmonary problems and chronic bronchitis. 
Emphysema is a long-term, progressive disease of the lungs that primarily causes shortness of breath due to over-inflation of the alveoli (air sacs in the lung). In people with emphysema, the lung tissue involved in exchange of gases (oxygen and carbon dioxide) is impaired or destroyed. Emphysema is included in a group of diseases called chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or COPD (pulmonary refers to the lungs).
Emphysema is a condition that forms part of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and involves the enlargement of the air sacs in the lung. 2-4. The alveoli at the end of the bronchioles of the lung become enlarged because of the breakdown of their walls. 
Emphysema is one of the major obstructive lung diseases under the chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) umbrella. This lung condition gradually destroys the air sacs in the lungs, making it progressively more difficult to breathe. 
Emphysema is a disease of the lungs that usually develops after many years of smoking. Both chronic bronchitis and emphysema belong to a group of lung diseases known as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) . Emphysema is a condition that involves damage to the walls of the air sacs (alveoli) of the lung. Alveoli are small, thin-walled, very fragile air sacs located in clusters at the end of the bronchial tubes deep inside the lungs. There are about 300 million alveoli in normal lungs.
Emphysema is an irreversible condition in which air becomes trapped in the lungs, making it difficult to exhale. Emphysema is a type of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), and the most common cause is smoking. Emphysema occurs when the tiny air sacs in the lungs, through which oxygen is transferred to the body, are damaged and eventually destroyed. 
Emphysema is a form of chronic (long-term) lung disease. People with emphysema have difficulty breathing from a limitation in blowing air out. There are multiple causes of emphysema, but smoking is by far the most common. Emphysema is one of the main types of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Most commonly, the toxins in cigarette smoke create the damage. The lung changes of emphysema evolve slowly over years: 1  As the fragile tissues between air sacs are destroyed, air pockets in the lungs develop. 2  Air becomes trapped in these spaces of damaged lung tissue.
Emphysema results when the delicate linings of the air sacs in the lungs become damaged beyond repair. Most commonly, the toxins in cigarette smoke create the damage. The lung changes of emphysema evolve slowly over years: 1  As the fragile tissues between air sacs are destroyed, air pockets in the lungs develop. 2  Air becomes trapped in these spaces of damaged lung tissue.