The problem for those trying to avoid foods containing dairy products is that they include the most commonly used ingredients in food manufacture. It may become harder to buy ready-made foods and you will need to become an avid reader of labels and ingredients lists.
Similarly, if butters or margarines are used to make a purchasable product, they’ll have to list these ingredients on their food labels. Butter is curdled and processed milk. 1  Some nutritionists claim that butters are the least harmful form of dairy to those with dairy allergies or lactose processing problems.
To make healthier choices, go for lower-fat milk and dairy foods. Because they're good sources of protein and calcium, milk and dairy products form part of a healthy diet. Our bodies need protein to work properly and to grow or repair themselves. Calcium helps to keep our bones and teeth strong.
The dairy food group is made of all foods that are predominantly made from milk. Most milk products are found in the refrigerated section of the supermarket. These foods are usually pasteurized and have a specific shelf life so always check the date. Once milk is opened, it can spoil easily if not kept refrigerated.
Milk and dairy foods are healthy foods and considered nutrient-rich because they serve as good sources of calcium and vitamin D as well as protein and other essential nutrients. They provide phosphorus, potassium, magnesium, and vitamins A, B12, and riboflavin 1.
All foods derived from or containing milk are considered dairy, or milchig (Yiddish). This includes milk, butter, yogurt and all cheese -- hard, soft and cream. Even a small amount of dairy in a food can cause the food to be considered dairy. All dairy products require kosher certification.
Dairy foods are good sources of calcium, which is important in pregnancy because it helps your unborn baby's developing bones to form properly. But there are some cheeses and other dairy products that you should avoid during pregnancy, as they may make you ill or harm your baby.
The total fat content of dairy products can vary a lot. Fat in milk provides calories for young children and also contains essential vitamins such as vitamin B2 and vitamin B12. However, much of the fat in milk and dairy foods is saturated fat. For older children and adults, eating too much fat can contribute to excess energy intakes, leading to becoming overweight.