This hormone is cortisol, a steroid hormone, and is probably the most underrated of the four bodybuilding hormones overviewed in this article. Cortisol is termed catabolic as it has the opposite effect to testosterone, insulin and growth hormone in that it breaks down tissue. In fact cortisol, which is released by the adrenal glands under conditions of high mental and physical stress and high temperature, is the body's primary catabolic hormone.
Cortisol is a long-term stress hormone-it is released no matter what kind of stress you are experiencing and it's destructive to many of our body's tissues. Watch naturopathic doctor Natasha Turner, ND, discuss how cortisol affects you negatively. It also can wreak havoc on numerous bodily functions. As your body’s chief, and powerful, stress hormone, it tells your body to do three things: increase your appetite; stock up on more fat; and break down materials that can be used for quick forms of energy, including muscle.
It functions to increase blood sugar through gluconeogenesis, to suppress the immune system, and to aid in the metabolism of fat, protein, and carbohydrate. It also decreases bone formation. Hydrocortisone (INN, USAN, BAN) is a name for cortisol when it is used as a medication. Cortisol can weaken the activity of the immune system. Cortisol prevents proliferation of T-cells by rendering the interleukin-2 producer T-cells unresponsive to interleukin-1 (IL-1), and unable to produce the T-cell growth factor (IL-2). Cortisol also has a negative-feedback effect on interleukin-1.
In the lay public, cortisol is known as a “stress hormone” that is bad for the body. While it is true that the body does release cortisol in response to various kinds of stress, it is important to recognize that our body’s ability to respond to stress is critical to our health and survival. 
Cortisol, the primary stress hormone, increases sugars (glucose) in the bloodstream, enhances your brain's use of glucose and increases the availability of substances that repair tissues. Cortisol also curbs functions that would be nonessential or detrimental in a fight-or-flight situation. 
Cortisol, known as the regulator of immune response, is a hormone controlled by the adrenal cortex. This powerful hormone is also known as an adrenalcorticol hormone, a glucocorticoid and hydrocortisone or simply cortisone. Cortisol has a catabolic (muscle breakdown) effect on tissue and is associated with a decrease in anabolic (muscle growth) hormones like IGF-1 and GH.
Alternative names for cortisol Hydrocortisone. What is cortisol? Cortisol is a steroid hormone, known as a glucocorticoid, made in the cortex of the adrenal glands and then released into the blood which transports it all round the body. Cortisol is a steroid hormone which regulates a wide range of processes throughout the body including metabolism and the immune response. It also has a very important role in helping the body respond to stress.
Cortisol & Adrenal Function. Cortisol is a life sustaining adrenal hormone essential to the maintenance of homeostasis. Called “the stress hormone,” cortisol influences, regulates or modulates many of the changes that occur in the body in response to stress including, but not limited to: 1  Blood sugar (glucose) levels. 2  Fat, protein and carbohydrate metabolism to maintain blood glucose (gluconeogenesis). 3  Immune responses.
Cortisol is a steroid hormone, meaning it is a steroid that acts as a hormone. A steroid is an organic compound. Hormones are signalling molecules produced by the glands. Cortisol is produced in the adrenal cortex part of the adrenal glands. It is classified as a glucocorticoid, a hormone that plays a role in glucose, or blood sugar, metabolism. It also helps metabolize fats, protein, and carbohydrates and keeps the immune system in check. 