Sealing Travertine, Fossil stone natural stone. Floor tiles, walls, bench top, vanity, pool pavers, columns and tables. Sealing travertine and fossil stone is an art that Lustre has mastered. Lustre utilizes a whole range of sealing products for sealing travertine and fossil stone. Weather you want a scratch resistance etch resistance, stain guard or a topical barrier coating (matt, semi gloss or high gloss). 
Dinosaur bones are some of the most well known and extensively studied fossil stones and rarely contain any organic tissue. Exceptions, as reported in a BBC article about a T. Rex find, are met with excitement and in some cases skepticism. Image by Flickr.com, courtesy of woodley wonderworks. The process of fossilization replaces organic matter with minerals. These minerals seep into the object, harden and become fossil stone, a copy of that object that has the chemical properties of a rock.
This coprolite is a type II Fossil. Here is a dinosaur footprint also a type II fossil. Type I fossils can be the actual thing that it once was, like a piece of bone or hair or feather. More often the bone material is replaced by different minerals contained in the liquid of the sediments that buried it. There are quite a few fossil classification systems in use today, but my favorite is the one used by Peter Larson and Kristin Donnan in their book, Bones Rock! They group them into two categories: Type I-the remains of the dead animal or plant or the imprint left from the remains.
Fossil Stone Slabs Page 1. Fossil Stone is a hard, dense limestone loaded with several different types shells. It works easily and takes a quick, fine polish with tin oxide or diamond. The wild-looking white fossils in the contrasting black base makes unusual and stunning stones. Fossil Stone: PAGE 1 PAGE 2
A Petoskey stone is a rock and a fossil, often pebble-shaped, that is composed of a fossilized rugose coral, Hexagonaria percarinata. 
Burial. Animals that live in or near water have the best chance of becoming fossils. They sink to the sea bed and the remains are covered with sediment, protecting them from predation. Other animals may have been buried by sandstorms or even volcanic eruptions. Image by Flickr.com, courtesy of woodley wonderworks. The process of fossilization replaces organic matter with minerals. These minerals seep into the object, harden and become fossil stone, a copy of that object that has the chemical properties of a rock.
Fossils. Fossils are evidence of ancient life forms or ancient habitats which have been preserved by natural processes. They can be the actual remains of a once living thing, such as bones or seeds, or even traces of past events such as dinosaur footprints, or the ripple marks on a prehistoric shore. 
Ancient Seas. Many of the richest deposits of fossil stones are in areas of the world that were once under water, such as the badlands of Alberta, Canada and North Dakota in the United States. Dinosaur National Park in Alberta is a perfect example. Image by Flickr.com, courtesy of woodley wonderworks. The process of fossilization replaces organic matter with minerals. These minerals seep into the object, harden and become fossil stone, a copy of that object that has the chemical properties of a rock.
Stone veneer can be made from natural stone as well as manufactured stone. Natural stone veneer is made from real stone that is either collected, i.e. fieldstone, or quarried. The stone is cut to a consistent thickness and weight for use as a veneer. This stone is often called thin stone veneer invented by Gernot Ehrlich.