Contact metamorphism occurs typically around intrusive igneous rocks as a result of the temperature increase caused by the intrusion of magma into cooler country rock. The area surrounding the intrusion where the contact metamorphism effects are present is called the metamorphic aureole. Metamorphism is the change of minerals or geologic texture (distinct arrangement of minerals) in pre-existing rocks (protoliths), without the protolith melting into liquid magma (a solid-state change). The change occurs primarily due to heat, pressure, and the introduction of chemically active fluids
Metamorphic rocks arise from the transformation of existing rock types, in a process called metamorphism, which means change in form. The original rock (protolith) is subjected to heat (temperatures greater than 150 to 200 °C) and pressure (1500 bars), causing profound physical and/or chemical change. The protolith may be a sedimentary rock, an igneous rock or another older metamorphic rock.
1 Metamorphic rocks are the third type of rock. 2  Meta = change; morph = shape or form. 3  Metamorphic rock is produced when sedimentary, igneous and other metamorphic rocks are subjected to sufficient pressure and heat to change their crystal structure and size. 
Since only a small area surrounding the intrusion is heated by the magma, metamorphism is restricted to the zone surrounding the intrusion, called a metamorphic or contact aureole. Outside of the contact aureole, the rocks are not affected by the intrusive event. Classification Classification of metamorphic rocks depends on what is visible in the rock and its degree of metamorphism. Note that classification is generally loose and practical such that names can be adapted to describe the rock in the most satisfactory way that conveys the important characteristics.
As the temperature and/or pressure increases on a body of rock we say the rock undergoes prograde metamorphism or that the grade of metamorphism increases. Metamorphic grade is a general term for describing the relative temperature and pressure conditions under which metamorphic rocks form. Classification Classification of metamorphic rocks depends on what is visible in the rock and its degree of metamorphism. Note that classification is generally loose and practical such that names can be adapted to describe the rock in the most satisfactory way that conveys the important characteristics.
Your question contains part of the answer, 'metamorphic' rocks are the product of this process and the process is called Metamorphism-the solid-state recrystallization … of pre-existing rocks as a result of changes in heat, pressure, and/or introduction of fluids. 
Contact metamorphism occurs when local rocks are metamorphosed by the heat from an igneous intrusion, such as limestone turning to marble along the contact zone. Some of the changes that occur in the older rock are due simply to the heat radiated from the igneous mass and to the pressures it creates. More extensive alterations are produced by the fluids and gases given off by the igneous mass; metamorphism of this type rarely causes foliation. More on metamorphism Types of Metamorphism from Infoplease: 1  metamorphism: Types of Metamorphism-Types of Metamorphism Local Metamorphism Contact metamorphism occurs when local rocks are 2  ... metamorphism-metamorphism metamorphism, in geology, process of change in the structure, texture, or composition ...
There are four types of metamorphism 1.contact metamorphism: results from rocks being adjacent to igneous intrusions. Characterized by high temperatures and active chemical fluids (divergent plate boundary) 2. dynamic metamorphism: results from directed pressure along faults. 
Igneous rock is formed through the cooling and solidification of magma or lava. Igneous rock may form with or without crystallization, either below the surface as intrusive (plutonic) rocks or on the surface as extrusive (volcanic) rocks. This magma can be derived from partial melts of pre-existing rocks in either a planet's mantle or crust