People who have never organised a funeral are often shocked at how expensive it is. There are charges for the grave site as well as fees to the undertakers, the cost of the coffin etc. Our research has found the average cost in Scotland for a simple funeral is £3,240. That's a lot of money for a family to find at a time of emotional stress-particularly when the bereavement is unexpected. But our figures also reveal that there is a ‘postcode lottery’ in funeral costs in Scotland, with families in some areas having to pay 300% more than those just a few miles away.
Bereaved Scots are finding it hard to pay the growing costs of burying their loves ones, according to new research published today by Citizens Advice Scotland. The average cost of a simple funeral in Scotland today is £3,240 - an increase of 7% year on year since 2004. And this rise has occurred against a background of falling household incomes and a cut in the emergency assistance that people can claim for funerals, leaving some families unable to bury their deceased at all. But our figures also reveal that there is a ‘postcode lottery’ in funeral costs in Scotland, with families in some areas having to pay 300% more than those just a few miles away.
The average cost of a funeral for a loved one rose by 80 per cent between 2004 and 2013, and is expected to continue to rise. The average cost of dying – including funeral, burial or cremation and state administration – rose by 7.1 per cent in the last year alone to £7,622 in the last year alone. After years of stagnant wage growth, rising living costs people in England and Wales have an average of just £7,780 in savings, according to figures from Halifax. Rising costs: The average cost of a funeral as risen by 80 per cent since 2004.
The most expensive burial cost almost 4,000 The cost of dying in Britain has risen by up to 25% over the past two years, according to a survey. Research carried out for friendly society Oddfellows found that it now costs an average of 2,048 for a burial service. A cremation is cheaper, but still costs about 1,215 - a 12% increase in two years. Over the last nine years, the cost of a send-off for loved ones has risen by 129% for burials and 67% for cremations. 
CAS head of policy Susan McPhee said: People who have never organised a funeral are often shocked at how expensive it is. There are charges for the grave site as well as fees to the undertakers, the cost of the coffin, etc. Our research has found the average cost in Scotland for a simple funeral is £3,240. That's a lot of money for a family to find at a time of emotional stress-particularly when the bereavement is unexpected
Life and pensions group Royal London says the average cost of a funeral in the UK has risen by nearly 4% in the last year to £3,700, while the UK inflation rate has hovered around zero. It wants policymakers to investigate the causes of rising funeral costs and better government help for people on low incomes. The most expensive place in the UK is Beckenham in London, where the cost of a burial is £7,216 and a cremation £3,529. The cheapest place is Belfast, where you'll pay about £3,000 for either. Lytham St Annes in Lancashire had the sharpest rise in funeral costs-up 10%.
It said there is a postcode lottery when it comes to funeral costs. All of Scotland's 32 local authorities provided CAS with up-to-date figures on their burial and cremation charges. On average, a burial in Scotland now costs £1,273. Council funeral charges have been rising by an average of 7% since 2004. The rise from 2014-15 was 10%, but the hike in prices was more pronounced in some parts of the country than other
THE average cost of a simple funeral has risen to £3,240, according to Citizens Advice Scotland (CAS). The group attacked the postcode lottery of funeral charges in Scotland, where it costs £2,716 in burial costs alone in East Dunbartonshire compared with £715 in East Renfrewshire just seven miles away. There are charges for the grave site as well as fees to the undertakers, the cost of the coffin, etc. Our research has found the average cost in Scotland for a simple funeral is £3,240.
Funeral costs in the UK. When we die, we all want our friends and family to come together for a decent send-off. But it can come as a shock just how much a funeral can cost. In 2015, the average cost of a funeral in the UK is £3,702 a rise of £140*. Costs vary across the UK, so it's worth finding out about your area: Region
- The average total cost for a basic funeral in 2014 for a cremation is £2,610 and £3,240 for a burial. - The number of clients attending CAB across Scotland regarding funerals has increased 27 per cent in 2013/2014 compared with the previous year. Basic Funeral Costs The largest area of increase in costs in recent years is found in the basic fees that would normally be expected for all funerals in Scotland. These include funeral directors’ costs, doctor’s fees, minister’s fees and burial or cremation costs.