The Thorax and the Anatomy of The Thorax. The chest, also known as the thorax, consists of 25 bones in the human body. These bones are the sternum and the ribs. The chest is a region located between the head and the abdomen. It houses and protects many internal organs, such as the lungs and heart. 
2. thorax-the part of the human torso between the neck and the diaphragm or the corresponding part in other vertebrates. chest, pectus. craniate, vertebrate-animals having a bony or cartilaginous skeleton with a segmented spinal column and a large brain enclosed in a skull or cranium. The thorax includes the rib cage, which encloses the heart and lungs. In humans and other mammals, the thorax lies above the abdomen. 2. The middle division of the body of an insect, to which the wings and legs are attached.
n. pl. tho·rax·es or tho·ra·ces (thor′thôr-ə′). sēz. 1 the part of the human body between the neck and the, diaphragm partially encased by the ribs and containing the heart and; lungs the. chest. 2 a part in other vertebrates that corresponds to the human. thorax The thorax includes the rib cage, which encloses the heart and lungs. In humans and other mammals, the thorax lies above the abdomen. 2. The middle division of the body of an insect, to which the wings and legs are attached.
In the human body, the region of the thorax between the neck and diaphragm in the front of the body is called the chest. The corresponding area in an animal can also be referred to as the chest. The shape of the chest does not correspond to that part of the thoracic skeleton that encloses the heart and lungs. The thorax includes the thoracic cavity and the thoracic wall. It contains organs including the heart, lungs and thymus gland, as well as muscles and various other internal structures. Many diseases may affect the chest, and one of the most common symptoms is chest pain.
In humans and other hominids, the thorax is the chest region of the body between the neck and the abdomen, along with its internal organs and other contents. It is mostly protected and supported by the rib cage, spine, and shoulder girdle. The thorax includes the thoracic cavity and the thoracic wall. It contains organs including the heart, lungs and thymus gland, as well as muscles and various other internal structures. Many diseases may affect the chest, and one of the most common symptoms is chest pain.
1. The part of the human body between the neck and the diaphragm, partially encased by the ribs and containing the heart and lungs; the chest. 2. A part in other vertebrates that corresponds to the human thorax. 3. The upper part of the trunk between the neck and the abdomen; formed by the 12 thoracic vertebrae, the 12 pairs of ribs, the sternum, and the muscles and fasciae attached to these; below, it is separated from the abdomen by the diaphragm; it contains the chief organs of the circulatory and respiratory systems. [L. fr.
The part of the human body between the neck and the diaphragm, partially encased by the ribs and containing the heart and lungs; the chest. 2. A part in other vertebrates that corresponds to the human thorax. The thorax includes the rib cage, which encloses the heart and lungs. In humans and other mammals, the thorax lies above the abdomen. 2. The middle division of the body of an insect, to which the wings and legs are attached.
For other uses, see Chest (disambiguation) . The thorax or chest (Greek: θώραξ (from the Greek θώραξ thorax breastplate, cuirass, corslet), Latin: thorax is a part of the anatomy of humans and various other animals located between the neck and the abdomen. The thorax includes the thoracic cavity and the thoracic wall. It contains organs including the heart, lungs and thymus gland, as well as muscles and various other internal structures. Many diseases may affect the chest, and one of the most common symptoms is chest pain.