Mod Podge is one of the most well known craft supplies in existence (you might recognize it from its retro label). But if you aren’t familiar with Mod Podge, it’s a decoupage medium — an all-in-one glue, sealer and finish used to attach paper and fabric to various surfaces. READ: 5 Must-Do Mod Podge Projects. Crafters use it for all sorts of projects, ranging from home decor décor to jewelry to gifts to budget. crafting
Mod Podge can be used as a sealer to protect painted surfaces. You can paint your base item all one color, and Mod Podge cut paper or lace onto it. You can also paint designs onto it, and use Mod Podge as a finish. 1  Keep in mind that Mod Podge is not water-proof. Paint the surface you want to be glittered with glossy Mod Podge. If you use matte or satin Mod Podge, then your finish won't be as shiny. You can also use Epsom salts to create something that looks like ice or snow. You can also use sand, for a fun, beach-themed item.
Mod Podge can act as both a glue and a sealer. You can use it to glue paper or fabric, to a box, or frame. You can even use it to add glitter to an item. The possibilities are endless. Paint the surface you want to be glittered with glossy Mod Podge. If you use matte or satin Mod Podge, then your finish won't be as shiny. You can also use Epsom salts to create something that looks like ice or snow. You can also use sand, for a fun, beach-themed item.
But aside from being an adhesive, Mod Podge can also be used as a varnish alternative since it can serve as a protective sheath or coating to a particular craft item or object. And since PVA is mixed with a gel type medium, it has water-resistant properties ideal for coating and protecting craft projects. Not to mention that, cleaning up Mod Podge is very easy because it is water-based. Varieties of Mod Podge products include Brushstroke Gloss, Brushstroke Matte, Glitter Silver Hologram, Hard Coat, Dimensional Magic Carded, Fabric, Paper Gloss, and Puzzle Saver among others.
You probably mean Mod Podge. It's a type of glue.. this stuff: http://www.amazon.com/Mod-Podge-Glue/dp/... It's a glue that is awesome for crafts and things like making collages and other decoupage related projects. and other similar projects since it sticks really well. It's actually one of the best glues of its kind. Mod Podge is just a brand name but since it's so popular, people use it exclusively to create various artwork. There are even Pinterest boards dedicated to only Mod Podge projects. There are a few different versions you can get... matte finish, gloss finish, satin.
Mod Podge is a popular brand of glue commonly used for collages and decoupages. It is manufactured by Plaid Enterprises, Inc. in facilities near Atlanta, Georgia. Plaid Enterprises is said to be one of the biggest makers of craft items and other DIY or do-it-yourself products. Not to mention that, cleaning up Mod Podge is very easy because it is water-based. Varieties of Mod Podge products include Brushstroke Gloss, Brushstroke Matte, Glitter Silver Hologram, Hard Coat, Dimensional Magic Carded, Fabric, Paper Gloss, and Puzzle Saver among others.
Definition: Mod Podge is an acid-free brand of glue produced by Plaid. Mod Podge is useful for collage and decoupage as it can be used both to glue something down and as a protective layer over it (instead of a varnish). It is available in a gloss, satin, or matte finish. The company website describes it as a the original all-in-one glue, sealer and finish 1
Mod Podge is marketed in varieties like matte, gloss, and satin finishes. Mod Podge has been a big hit for crafters since the late 1960s. Many loved its “all-in-one” glue usage. From paper to plastic, fabric, carton, and other materials, Mod Podge serves like an all-purpose glue. Not to mention that, cleaning up Mod Podge is very easy because it is water-based. Varieties of Mod Podge products include Brushstroke Gloss, Brushstroke Matte, Glitter Silver Hologram, Hard Coat, Dimensional Magic Carded, Fabric, Paper Gloss, and Puzzle Saver among others.