Limestone (chemically precipitated). Sandstone (clastic sedimentary). Limestone, a chemically precipitated sedimentary rock shown in the photograph on the left, is formed by the compaction and lithification of the shells from marine organisms. Sandstone, on the right, is formed by the compaction of quartz grains.
Sandstone is a clastic sedimentary rock made up mainly of sand-size (1/16 to 2 millimeter diameter) weathering debris. Environments where large amounts of sand can accumulate include beaches, deserts, flood plains and deltas. It often forms as nodules in sedimentary rocks such as chalk and marine limestones. Dolomite (also known as dolostone and dolomite rock) is a chemical sedimentary rock that is very similar to limestone. It is thought to form when limestone or lime mud is modified by magnesium-rich ground water. The specimen shown above is about four inches (ten centimeters) acros
Sedimentary rocks form from sediment. Sediment is a general term that indicates loose grains (such as the sand at the beach) and chemical precipitates (such as crystals of salt). Sedimentary rocks can be subdivided in three categories: clastic, chemical, and biochemical sedimentary rocks. Clastic sedimentary rocks form when individual grains (the sediment), made by fragments of rocks, minerals, or shells, are cemented together (the clastic sediemntary rock). These are the only type of rock that is NOT made simply of crystals, but rather fragments of other materials, broken and then reassembled together
Limestone. Limestone is a very common sedimentary rock consisting of calcium carbonate (more than 50%). Limestone is the most common non-siliciclastic (sandstone and shale are common siliciclastic rocks) sedimentary rock. Limestones are rocks that are composed of mostly calcium carbonate (minerals calcite or aragonite). This coarse-grained limestone from Cyprus shares both sandstone and limestone properties. It is clearly clastic like sandstone but it is composed of carbonate grains of biogenic origin. Such rocks are known as calcarenite, they are considered to be a subtype of limestone. The width of the sample from Cyprus is 7 cm.
Limestone is a sedimentary rock composed largely of the minerals calcite and aragonite, which are different crystal forms of calcium carbonate (CaCO 3). Like most other sedimentary rocks, most limestone is composed of grains. Most grains in limestone are skeletal fragments of marine organisms such as coral or foraminifera. Other carbonate grains comprising limestones are ooids, peloids, intraclasts, and extraclasts
Some limestones form from the cementation of sand and / or mud by calcite (clastic limestone), and these often have the appearance of sandstone or mudstone. As calcite is the principle mineral component of limestone, it will fizz in dilute hydrochloric acid. Limestone is a sedimentary rock consisting of more than 50% calcium carbonate (calcite-CaCO 3). There are many different types of limestone formed through a variety of processes.