Definition. The process of looking for, finding and removing unwarranted expenses from a business to increase profits without having a negative impact on product quality. Many business managers will engage in periodic cost reduction drives in order to make their company's operation more efficient and to boost profits. Nearby Terms. 1  cost proposal. 2  cost push facto... 3  cost push infla... 4  cost ratio. 5  cost realism. 6  cost realism an... 7  cost records. 8  cost recovery. 9  cost reduction. 10  cost reimbursem... 11  cost reimbursem... 12  cost risk. 13  cost saving. 14  cost sensitivit... 15  cost sharing. 16  cost sharing ag... 17  cost sharing co...
Cost Reduction Analysis. Imagine what you could do with thousands of dollars added to your bottom line. Our cost reduction analysis identifies all the ways to save your business money. See how to reduce cost and immediately increase cash flow. 
DEFINITION of 'Capitalized Cost Reduction'. Any upfront payment that reduces the cost of financing. Capitalized cost reduction is generally associated with the purchase or lease of an automobile, and reduces the monthly payment owed if the vehicle is financed. 
Car Leasing ». A cap cost reduction, or capitalized cost reduction, is the amount of money that a leaser puts down in order to lower the lease cost for a car. The Effect of a Cap Cost Reduction. Any amount put down on a lease is good for reducing its cost over the term of the lease. A 36-month lease for a vehicle with a $20,000 price tag may have a monthly lease payment of $425 (say at 10% interest).
During breast reduction surgery, your surgeon is able to make your breasts appear more symmetrical. This is a common problem in women. There are the different types of incisions that may be used: 1  Anchor Incision – This is a set of three incisions. It’s a very detailed type of surgery for the surgeon who is creating your new breast look, and he may spend up to two hours remodeling your new breast. Here’s a step-by-step account of what happens during breast reduction surgery: 1  Prior to your surgery, your doctor will mark the places for the incisions on you breasts. 2  He or she does this because the breast tissue moves and changes its physical location when you are lying down
Advertisement. Cost control and reduction refers to the efforts business managers make to monitor, evaluate, and trim expenditures. These efforts might be part of a formal, company-wide program or might be informal in nature and limited to a single individual or department.
BREAKING DOWN 'Cost Cutting'. Because salaries and wages are such a large expense, many companies look to layoffs as a cost-cutting measure when times are lean. 
Cost Sharing Reduction. A discount that lowers the amount you have to pay out-of-pocket for deductibles, coinsurance, and copayments. You can get this reduction if you get health insurance through the Marketplace, your income is below a certain level, and you choose a health plan from the Silver plan category. 
Process Cost Reduction-An Example. “We have to cut budgets by 10%”. This dreaded statement is all too familiar these days, but is no less intimidating for the department manager faced with its implementation. 