hypersplenism. a condition characterized by splenomegaly and exaggeration of the phagocytic function of the spleen, resulting in deficiency of peripheral blood elements, and often by hypercellularity of the bone marrow. Some of the underlying causes of hypersplenism or enlarged spleen can be prevented, such as certain forms of anemia and cirrhosis of the liver due to alcohol. In other cases, the hypersplenism may not be preventable, as it is a complication to an underlying disorder.
The spleen is located in the upper left area of the abdomen. One of this organ's major functions is to remove blood cells from the body's bloodstream. In hypersplenism, its normal function accelerates, and it begins to automatically remove cells that may still be normal in function. Sometimes, the spleen will temporarily hold onto up to 90% of the body's platelets and 45% of the red blood cells. Some of the underlying causes of hypersplenism or enlarged spleen can be prevented, such as certain forms of anemia and cirrhosis of the liver due to alcohol. In other cases, the hypersplenism may not be preventable, as it is a complication to an underlying disorder.
Nouns denoting stable states of affairs. Hypernyms (hypersplenism is a kind of...): symptom ((medicine) any sensation or change in bodily function that is experienced by a patient and is associated with a particular disease). • HYPERSPLENISM (noun). The noun HYPERSPLENISM has 1 sense: 1. enlarged spleen and a decrease in one or more types of blood cells; associated with many disorders. Familiarity information: HYPERSPLENISM used as a noun is very rare.
1 Splenomegaly refers strictly to spleen enlargement, and is distinct from hypersplenism, which connotes overactive function by a spleen of any size. 2  Splenomegaly and hypersplenism should not be confused. 3  Each may be found separately, or they may coexist. 1 Moderate splenomegaly, if the largest dimension is between 11–20 cm. 2  Severe splenomegaly, if the largest dimension is greater than 20 cm. 3  Splenomegaly refers strictly to spleen enlargement, and is distinct from hypersplenism, which connotes overactive function by a spleen of any size.
Noun. 1. hypersplenism-enlarged spleen and a decrease in one or more types of blood cells; associated with many disorders. symptom - (medicine) any sensation or change in bodily function that is experienced by a patient and is associated with a particular disease. Translations.
hypersplenism. a condition characterized by exaggeration of the hemolytic function of the spleen, resulting in deficiency of peripheral blood elements, and by hypercellularity of the bone marrow and splenomegaly. Some of the underlying causes of hypersplenism or enlarged spleen can be prevented, such as certain forms of anemia and cirrhosis of the liver due to alcohol. In other cases, the hypersplenism may not be preventable, as it is a complication to an underlying disorder.
Splenomegaly is usually associated with increased workload (such as in hemolytic anemias), which suggests that it is a response to hyperfunction. It is therefore not surprising that splenomegaly is associated with any disease process that involves abnormal red blood cells being destroyed in the spleen. 1 Moderate splenomegaly, if the largest dimension is between 11–20 cm. 2  Severe splenomegaly, if the largest dimension is greater than 20 cm. 3  Splenomegaly refers strictly to spleen enlargement, and is distinct from hypersplenism, which connotes overactive function by a spleen of any size.