To stay within the safe zone, you must refrigerate leftovers within 2 hours or just 1 hour if the temperature is 90 degrees F or hotter. If you're grilling, for example, your chicken needs to be cooled and in the fridge relatively quickly; there's no time for socializing and then putting away your leftovers. 
1 How long does raw chicken last after the sell-by date? 2  After chicken is purchased, it may be refrigerated for 1 to 2 days — the sell-by date on the package may expire during that storage period, but the chicken will remain safe to use after the sell by date if it has been properly stored. 1
NEVER thaw chicken at room temperature. USDA recommends 1-2 days of refrigerated storage (40°F). Depending upon the packaging of the chicken, how it was handled in-transit, and the temperature in the refrigerator, the chicken could last longer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airt … ight container.  . + 42 others found this useful.
Report Abuse. Refrigerator (4°C or 40°F) Whole chicken (2-3 days) Chicken pieces (2-3 days) Cooked chicken (3-4 days) Ground chicken (1-2 days) You could also freeze it for up to 3 months. Source(s): www.chicken.ca see the page on Storage and Thawing Guidelines: http://www.chicken.ca/DefaultSite/index_... Marty B · 7 years ago.
Eating leftovers saves time and money, but food spoils if you leave it in the refrigerator too long. In general, refrigerated chicken leftovers are safe to eat for three to four days. However, proper storage and handling of leftover food is necessary to prevent dangerous bacterial growth. Refrigerated Leftovers. Cooked chicken, chicken broth, fried chicken, chicken soup, chicken casseroles and cooked chicken leftovers from a restaurant or convenience store can be safely refrigerated for three to four days, according to the United States Department of Agriculture.
1 How long does raw chicken last after being frozen and thawed? 2  Chicken that has been defrosted in the fridge can be kept for an additional 1 to 2 days in the refrigerator before cooking; chicken that was thawed in the microwave or in cold water should be cooked immediately. 1 After chicken is purchased, it may be refrigerated for 1 to 2 days — the sell-by date on the package may expire during that storage period, but the chicken will remain safe to use after the sell by date if it has been properly stored.
Dear SS: According to Foodsafety.gov, uncooked poultry is safe in the refrigerator for 1-2 days, and safe in the freezer for 9 months (for pieces) and up to 12 months for whole chickens or turkey. Cooked poultry is safe refrigerated for 3-4 days. You can also freeze your cooked breaded chicken cutlets (tightly wrapped in foil or saran wrap and place in freezer bags) for 1-3 months. Just pull it out the night before you want to have it and thaw in the fridge. 
Leftovers can be kept for three to four days in the refrigerator. Be sure to eat them within that time. After that, the risk of food poisoning increases. If you don't think you'll be able to eat leftovers within four days, freeze them immediately. 
Cooked chicken will be fine to use throughout the week 5-7 days... It may not taste as good after the first 2-3 days but if it is properly refrigerated it would be SAFE to eat. ♥HEARTS 808's KIDDO♥ · 7 years ago. Thumbs up. 