Probably the first food that comes to mind when thinking about potassium is the banana. This is not wrong—by our Rating System, bananas are a good source of potassium. But there are 32 foods on our Rating Chart with more potassium per calorie than the banana. Speaking more generally, the most potassium-rich food sources of potassium are fruits and vegetables. Some legumes, fish, and dairy products can also make important contributions to our daily potassium intake; yet, because these foods have more calories, they are not as highly rated by our Nutrient Richness System. 
Bananas are more readily available and more popular than some of the fruits that are higher in potassium. Other fruits that are more commonly consumed and contain relatively large amounts of potassium include orange juice, cantaloupe, grapefruit juice and apricots. Because yogurt is also high in potassium, fruit smoothies are a great way to increase your potassium levels. When comparing the amount of potassium in a single fruit, there aren't many fruits that contain more than a banana. A medium plantain contains 893 milligrams of potassium, and a papaya contains 781 milligrams.
Bananas. If you’ve heard about any potassium-rich foods, you probably know that bananas are a good source, containing more than 400 mg of potassium each. Bananas make a healthy high-energy snack – more beneficial to athletes than sports drinks, according to at least one study. 1 Holly Clark/Stocksy Potatoes Whether they’re red, white, or sweet, potatoes can be a great source of potassium; about 900 mg of the nutrient can be found in just one medium Russet potato. 2  These popular complex carbs are also high in vitamin C, vitamin B6, iron, and fiber (especially in the skin).
In addition to oranges' phytonutrients, vitamin C, and fiber, they are a good source of folate, vitamin A (in the form of carotenoids), vitamin B1, potassium, copper, pantothenic acid, and calcium. Nutritional Profile. Oranges are an excellent source of vitamin C. They are also a very good source of dietary fiber. In addition, oranges are a good source of B vitamins including vitamin B1, pantothenic acid, and folate as well as vitamin A, calcium, copper, and potassium.
Oranges as a Source of Potassium. Oranges are a good source of potassium, providing 237 mg each, and a 6 oz. serving of orange juice provides 372 mg, according to the Linus Pauling Institute. This is approximately 5 percent of the 4.7 g of potassium per day recommended for most people. Potassium is used by the body for contracting muscles, keeping balance between the water inside and outside the cells and proper enzyme function. You can increase your potassium levels by eating foods containing this nutrient, fruits, vegetables, meat and milk. Oranges are a source of potassium.
Many of the elements of the D.A.S.H. eating plan --- fruits, vegetables, fat-free or lowfat (1 percent) dairy foods and fish --- are good natural sources of potassium. A diet that includes natural sources of potassium is important in controlling blood pressure because potassium lessens the effects of sodium. 
While bananas are a good source of potassium, some fruits contain even higher levels of potassium, potentially making it easier to meet the recommended daily intake of this nutrient. Alternatively, you may want to avoid these items if you are on a potassium-restricted diet. When comparing the amount of potassium in a single fruit, there aren't many fruits that contain more than a banana. A medium plantain contains 893 milligrams of potassium, and a papaya contains 781 milligrams.
Aside from energy and potassium, bananas are also a good source of fiber and vitamins B6 and C. For other high-potassium fresh fruits, enjoy cantaloupe, kiwi, oranges, and strawberries. 1  Getty Images Avocado If avocado isn’t a staple in your house yet, you should probably start adding it to your grocery list. 1 Holly Clark/Stocksy Potatoes Whether they’re red, white, or sweet, potatoes can be a great source of potassium; about 900 mg of the nutrient can be found in just one medium Russet potato. 2  These popular complex carbs are also high in vitamin C, vitamin B6, iron, and fiber (especially in the skin).
Squash is a good source of potassium. Beans are a good source of potassium. Avocado is high in potassium. Kiwis are packed with potassium, an essential mineral that helps the body maintain proper levels of hydration and electrolytes. Yogurt is high in calcium and potassium.