While there is no single standard height for wainscoting in a bathroom, the typical height range is from 38-to-42 inches off the ground, or taller than the vanity or sink. A height range of 48-to-54 inches is also common, since the higher the wainscoting, the more protection it offers. Bathroom wainscoting keeps water from damaging the lower parts of walls. Wainscoting in the bathroom is decorative, but it also helps protect the walls from splashes of water, especially near the sink.
Variables. Wainscoting height in the bathroom may depend on a number of variables. Sink height, fixture position, or other design features might influence your decision. Matching the height of wainscoting in other rooms may be important. By no means should you stick to 45-inches if that height doesn't look right. Adjust it until it suits your eye. It should be no higher than 48-inches and no lower than 36-inches.
Take it Higher. In some instances, tall beadboard is used. In a bathroom, the taller the beadboard, the better it will protect against moisture and splashes, especially near a sink. In a room with a high ceiling, a tall beadboard also looks visually balanced compared to one on the shorter end of the spectrum. Setting the Standard. When used in a kitchen or dining area, beadboard protects the walls from chair backs banging against it, serving in much the same manner as a chair rail. A 36-inch height is one of the most common for beadboard, based on the heights of chair backs in general.
Standard Height. The standard height of a beadboard panel is 8 feet, the same height as the average non-vaulted ceiling in a home. If you are installing beadboard as wainscot, you can cut 8-foot beadboard panels into thirds making each piece 32 inches in height. Since wainscoting only covers the bottom portion of a wall, you can cut the beadboard or add railing to accommodate your room design. A standard railing cap height is 6 inches, so the total height of the beadboard wainscoting and railing is 39 inches. Elite Trimworks recommends a similar total beadboard finished height of 38 inches.
And The Reformed Ranch installed a tall beadboard wainscot in a farmhouse dining room. You can also add a ledge to beadboard wainscoting like we did in our Logan House bathroom. or install the beadboard horizontally like we did in the half bath that we added to our Logan House. 
11,011 Saves | 8 Questions. Use beadboard as wainscoting in a bathroom to give it a nautical feel. Tip: An easy way to work out wainscoting height is to divide the height of the room into three, then cut your boards to two-thirds the height of the room. Photo of a traditional bathroom in Calgary. Wainscoting. Tile or wood wainscoting in bathrooms is set to standard height at 45 to 48 inches. This typically allows for the vanity or cabinets to be placed just under for a clean, uniform look. Photo of a transitional bathroom. — Houzz
I like it 2/3 of the way up in bathrooms, and 1/3 of the way up in the rest of the house. If you split a sheet of panelling into thirds, that's the height for the shorter panelling (you'll get three widths per sheet). If you use 2/3 of the sheet, that's for the higher panelling, and you'll have the 1/3 left over to do another room in the shorter height. Like Bookmark November 19, 2007 at 1:15AM. Thank you for reporting this comment. Consider, also, how your baseboard is going to work-if you are going to put the beadboard on top of a baseboard, behind it sitting on the floor, behind it but raised above the floor (use scraps of beadboard to fill the dead space behind the baseboard).