Evaluative mediation is focused on providing the parties with an evaluation of their case and directing them toward settlement. During an evaluative mediation process, when the parties agree that the mediator should do so, the mediator will express a view on what might be a fair or reasonable settlement. The term mediation broadly refers to any instance in which a third party helps others reach agreement. More specifically, mediation has a structure, timetable and dynamics that ordinary negotiation lacks
In divorce mediation, you and your spouse -- or, in some cases, the two of you and your respective lawyers -- hire a neutral third party, called a mediator, to meet with you in an effort to discuss and resolve the issues in your divorce. 
Mediation, as used in law, is a form of alternative dispute resolution (ADR), a way of resolving disputes between two or more parties with concrete effects. Typically, a third party, the mediator, assists the parties to negotiate a settlement. The term mediation broadly refers to any instance in which a third party helps others reach agreement. More specifically, mediation has a structure, timetable and dynamics that ordinary negotiation lacks
No one but the parties to the dispute and the mediator or mediators know what happened. Confidentiality in mediation has such importance that in most cases the legal system cannot force a mediator to testify in court as to the content or progress of mediation. The term mediation broadly refers to any instance in which a third party helps others reach agreement. More specifically, mediation has a structure, timetable and dynamics that ordinary negotiation lacks
The mediator is not the decision-maker and does not resolve the dispute -- the parties do. A mediator is often able to more fully explore the parties' underlying interests, needs and priorities. Mediation is a flexible and less formal process that may reduce the time and costs often associated with a formal trial. 2. If parties agree to use a mediator on the court's Mediator Panel List, the mediator's hourly rate is limited to $150 per hour for the first 2 hours of mediation in a limited civil action and $250 per hour for the first two hours in an unlimited civil action.
Also, the amount of time spent in mediation is contingent upon you and your spouse's willingness to come to agreements that are equitable for the both of you and your willingness to do what is in the best interests of your children. A divorce mediator is neutral and doesn't work for either parent. That means the mediator can not give advice to either party. They must remain neutral no matter what the situation.
If the mediator is an attorney, the attorney can assist the parties in filing all papers with the court, including starting the dissolution of marriage action, preparing and filing the necessary disclosure documents, and preparing the agreement, judgment, and final papers to be filed with the court. The mediator will not allow one party to overpower the other in mediation. If one of the parties is unable to be effective during this process, the mediator will stop the mediation. However, many persons who considered themselves to be the weaker of the two spouses have been quite effective
5. How much does it cost? If parties agree to use a mediator on the court's Mediator Panel List, the mediator's hourly rate is limited to $150 per hour for the first 2 hours of mediation in a limited civil action and $250 per hour for the first two hours in an unlimited civil action.
In many cases, you'd like the mediator to play judge and settle the matter once and for all, right? The problem is the law and regulations covering the conduct of mediators and the process of mediation do not allow us to do these things, and it's well they do not. Mediation is your process, not the mediator's. Decisions are yours and your client's to make, and mediation is the only forum in which you have complete control over decision making by or in behalf of your client. 