Spanish Meaning: The name Emilia is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Emilia is: Flattering. Latin Meaning: The name Emilia is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Emilia is: Industrious; striving. Shakespearean Meaning: The name Emilia is a Shakespearean baby name. In Shakespearean the meaning of the name Emilia is: The Winter's Tale' A lady attending on the Queen. 'The Tragedy of Othello, Moor of Venice' Wife to Iago, and lady-in-waiting to Desdemona
Origin of the name Emilia: Feminine form of Emil, derived from the Latin Aemilius, an old Roman family name probably derived from aemulus (rival, trying to equal or excel, emulating) There are some who thing Emilio is of Germanic origin and derive it from the element amal (work). Facebook Twitter Google+ Email. Feminine form of Emil, derived from the Latin Aemilius, an old Roman family name probably derived from aemulus (rival, trying to equal or excel, emulating) There are some who thing Emilio is of Germanic origin and derive it from the element amal (work).
Emilia, the lovely feminine form of the Roman clan name Aemilius, is rising as an Emily / Amelia alternative, now at Number 164. Its one problem is that it sounds like and is often seen as interchangeable with Amelia, which has a different root and meaning. 
Emilia /emil-ia/ [4 sylls.] as a girls' name is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Emilia is rival; laborious; eager. From the Roman clan name Aemilius. See Amelia. Kreatif forms: Emicia, Emiliaeu, Euemilia. 
Notes: Emilia is a name with Latin origins. The meaning of the name Emilia is to strive, to excel, or to rival. Emilia originally comes from the name Aemilia. Common variations of the name include Amelia, Emelia, Emily, Amilya, Emiliana, and Amilia. Common nicknames include Emma, Em, Emmy, Mia, Millie, and Mellie.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Emilia. Emilia is the Italian and Spanish form of Emily, which is derived from the Latin name “Aemilia”, a female version of the Old Roman family name, “Aemilius” (probably from the Latin “aemulus” meaning ‘rival’). Rather, Emilia is the Latinate (Italian and Spanish) form of the English Emily, which is derived from the Roman gens Aemilius. Emily and Emilia have been around since medieval times, as evidenced by a few literary references.
View the Emilia Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Emilia has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Emilia to other names. Emilia is a variant spelling of Emily. Emily is derived from Aemilia, the Latin feminine form of the Roman family name Aemilius. The name Aemilius was in turn derived from the Latin word aemulus meaning rival. Emilia has the diminutives (nicknames) Emmie, Emmy. 
Meaning: The Italian name Emilia means-a form of Amelia, Emily. Rating: 