A Buford complex is a congenital labral variant. The anterosuperior labrum is absent in the 1-3 o'clock position and the middle glenohumeral ligament is usually thickened. It is present in approximately 1.5% of individuals. On these axial images a Buford complex can be identified. In the ABER position the inferior glenohumeral ligament is stretched resulting in tension on the anteroinferior labrum, allowing intra-articular contrast to get between the labral tear and the glenoid. Rotator cuff tears. The ABER view is also very useful for both partial-and full-thickness tears of the rotator cuff.
Middle Glenohumeral Ligament: The middle glenohumeral ligament is a paired ligament located in the shoulder and one of three glenohumeral ligaments. It is located in the middle area of the shoulder joint and consists of connective tissue. These symptoms are related to afflictions of the organ: Middle Glenohumeral Ligament: 1  Deformity of shoulder. 2  Inability to move arm. 3  Shoulder pain. 4  Decreased range of motion of shoulder. 5  Pain with movement of shoulder. 6  Shoulder/arm weakness.
POINTS: • Ultrasound is increasingly used to diagnose shoulder problems. • The thickness of the inferior glenohumeral ligament is measurable in the axilla. • The inferior glenohumeral ligament appears thickened in shoulders with capsular contracture. Measurements were symmetrically performed orthogonally to the inferior glenohumeral ligament (IGHL) in the axial plane; the coronal plane was used to ensure the tension of the IGHL. The significance of any difference in thickening was assessed with the Mann-Whitney test.
Figure 5.26 The inferior glenohumeral ligament can be likened to a hammock, the superior bands at the front and the back being the ropes which hold up the hammock. Figures 5.27, 5.28 and 5.29 The infraglenoid recess is a capacious space below the humeral neck. A great amount has been written about the glenohumeral ligaments and their importance in recurrent dislocation, but for those interested in shoulder arthroscopy the paper of Turkel et al[3] is essential reading (Figure 5.19). Figure 5.19 Anatomy of the glenohumeral ligaments according to Turkel et al.
The ligaments may be best seen by opening the capsule at the back of the joint and removing the head of the humerus 1  : One on the medial side of the joint passes from the medial edge of the glenoid cavity to the lower part of the lesser tubercle of the humerus. 1 One on the medial side of the joint passes from the medial edge of the glenoid cavity to the lower part of the lesser tubercle of the humerus. 2  A second at the lower part of the joint extends from the under edge of the glenoid cavity to the under part of the anatomical neck
The inferior glenohumeral ligament is the strongest and most important of the glenohu­meral ligaments. The superior band is constant and can be seen passing downwards and outwards beneath the middle glenohumeral ligament (Figures 5.23 and 5.24). A great amount has been written about the glenohumeral ligaments and their importance in recurrent dislocation, but for those interested in shoulder arthroscopy the paper of Turkel et al[3] is essential reading (Figure 5.19). Figure 5.19 Anatomy of the glenohumeral ligaments according to Turkel et al.
The inferior glenohumeral ligament (IGHL) (5a,6a) is a hammock-like structure that attaches to the inferior glenoid, glenoid labrum, and the humeral neck. Thickened portions of the IGHL anteriorly and posteriorly are referred to as the anterior and posterior bands. A fat suppressed T1-weighted MR arthrogram of a sublabral hole (arrow). Sublabral holes/foramina occur anterosuperiorly (1 o'clock to 3 o'clock position). Note the smoothly contoured, otherwise normal appearing anterior superior labrum (arrow head), and middle glenohumeral ligament (short arrow).
Lateral view of the shoulder with the humerus removed demonstrates the restraints of the glenohumeral joint. Inferior glenohumeral ligament (IGHL), middle glenohumeral ligament (MGHL), superior glenohumeral ligament (SGHL), long head of the biceps (LHB), and coracohumeral ligament (CHL). The supraspinatus (Sup), infraspinatus (Is), subscapularis (Sub), and teres minor (Tm), and coracoacromial ligament (CAL) are indicated. A fat suppressed T1-weighted MR arthrogram of a sublabral hole (arrow). Sublabral holes/foramina occur anterosuperiorly (1 o'clock to 3 o'clock position). Note the smoothly contoured, otherwise normal appearing anterior superior labrum (arrow head), and middle glenohumeral ligament (short arrow).
Glenohumeral ligaments. Figure 5.35 A needle used as a probe. Figure 5.36 Verres needle used as a probe. The glenohumeral ligaments are always a source of great interest, as such a high propor­tion of shoulder disability is related to anterior dislocation or subluxation. The anterior shoul­der capsule was described by Galen, but the three glenohumeral ligaments were only descri­bed and named in the last century. A great amount has been written about the glenohumeral ligaments and their importance in recurrent dislocation, but for those interested in shoulder arthroscopy the paper of Turkel et al[3] is essential reading (Figure 5.19). Figure 5.19 Anatomy of the glenohumeral ligaments according to Turkel et al.