Dodo. The first thing you should know about the Dodo bird (Raphus Cucullatus) is that it no longer exists. It was driven to extinction by humans in 1681. Dodos were only found on the island of Mauritius in the Indian Ocean. Nothing is reported of the dodo's mating habits, behaviors or life expectancy. Dodos had no natural enemies and when they were discovered, they fearlessly approached humans and other animals. This is what made them easy prey.
Range and Habitat. The dodo bird only ever lived on Mauritius, a small island in the Indian Ocean about 500 miles from the island of Madagascar. Prior to 1598, no humans lived on the island. These flightless birds lived in forests throughout the island.
The dodo (Raphus cucullatus) is an extinct flightless bird that was endemic to the island of Mauritius, east of Madagascar in the Indian Ocean. Subfossil remains show the dodo was about 1 metre (3 ft 3 in) tall and may have weighed 10.6–21.1 kg (23–47 lb) in the wild. The dodo's appearance in life is evidenced only by drawings, paintings, and written accounts from the 17th century.
Name: Dodo. Status: Extinct. Habitat: Mauritius, an island in the Indian Ocean. This was the dodo's only home. Description: Large flightless bird. We don't know exactly what it looked like. We have to rely on old pictures and the few bones and skins we have left-like the ones we have on display in the Museum. Reasons for extinction: The dodo only lived on one island-Mauritius.
Dodo Habitat. Very few species remain in our mind after their extinction, and the dodo-endemic to the island of Mauritius-is one of the prime examples of the same. Join us as we embark on a journey of the dodo habitat to see what role it played in the tragic extinction of this flightless bird. Advertisement. While the depiction is not completely wrong, the same can be-once again, attributed to its habitat. Dodo habitat on the island of Mauritius was characterized by distinctive cyclic seasons of dry and wet climate. In its attempt to survive, the Dodo adapted itself to these changes in seasons.
The dodo was a medium-large sized flightless bird that was discovered on the Island of Mauritius in the 1590s and was declared extinct less than a century later, in 1681. Despite the turkey-sized body of the dodo, it is thought to have been most closely related to smaller birds such as doves and pigeons. The dodo inhabited the tropical forests on the tiny island of Mauritius that is situated in the Indian Ocean. Like the neighbouring island of Madagascar, Mauritius broke away from the African continent when the land first split, causing it's wildlife to be extremely unique and the dodo is no exception
Listen. Very few species remain in our mind after their extinction, and the dodo-endemic to the island of Mauritius-is one of the prime examples of the same. Join us as we embark on a journey of the dodo habitat to see what role it played in the tragic extinction of this flightless bird. Advertisement. While the depiction is not completely wrong, the same can be-once again, attributed to its habitat. Dodo habitat on the island of Mauritius was characterized by distinctive cyclic seasons of dry and wet climate. In its attempt to survive, the Dodo adapted itself to these changes in seasons.