DNA was proven as the hereditary material and Watson et al. had deciphered its structure. What remained was to determine how DNA copied its information and how that was expressed in the phenotype. Matthew Meselson and Franklin W. Stahl designed an experiment to determine the method of DNA replication. While the period from the early 1900s to World War II has been considered the golden age of genetics, scientists still had not determined that DNA, and not protein, was the hereditary material.
Hershey and Chase concluded that protein was likely not to be the hereditary genetic material. However, they did not make any conclusions regarding the specific function of DNA as hereditary material, and only said that it must have some undefined role. Thus, the Hershey–Chase experiment helped confirm that DNA, not protein, is the genetic material. Hershey and Chase showed that the introduction of deoxyribonuclease (referred to as DNase), an enzyme that breaks down DNA, into a solution containing the labeled bacteriophages did not introduce any 32 P into the solution.
DNA had been proven as the genetic material by the Hershey-Chase experiments, but how DNA served as genes was not yet certain. DNA must carry information from parent cell to daughter cell. It must contain information for replicating itself. It must be chemically stable, relatively unchanging. While the period from the early 1900s to World War II has been considered the golden age of genetics, scientists still had not determined that DNA, and not protein, was the hereditary material.
Although numerous scientists engaged in pneumococcal research during the first half of the twentieth century, two of these researchers played an especially important role in the course of events that led to the discovery of DNA as the hereditary material. One of these individuals was Oswald Avery. However, the bacterial isolates and serum samples from these clinical studies provided the critical reagents for the experiments that ultimately led to the identification
The DNA that makes up genes must be capable of storing, copying, and transmitting the genetic information in a cell. transformation (339) bacteriophage (340) 12.2 The Structure of DNA DNA is a nucleic acid made up of nucleotides joined into long strands or chains by covalent bonds. 
Therefore, the eventual identification of DNA as the hereditary material came as a surprise to scientists. This breakthrough resulted from a series of experiments with bacteria and bacteriophages, or viruses that infect bacteria. 
Which of the following is NOT an essential attribute that a biological molecule would need to be a useful genetic material? Answer: a. It must be capable of undergoing occasional mutations, such that the information it carries is altered in a heritable way b. All are essential attributes of useful genetic material. c. It must replicate accurately so that the information it contains is precisely inherited by the daughter cells d.
Aa Aa Aa. No one could have predicted that experiments designed to understand bacterial pneumonia would lead to the discovery of DNA as the hereditary material. In the early part of the twentieth century, before the advent of antibiotics, pneumococcal infections claimed many more lives than they do today. However, the bacterial isolates and serum samples from these clinical studies provided the critical reagents for the experiments that ultimately led to the identification
Information stored in the order of the base pairs. Because genetic material is not used up in the processes of transcription or translation, genetic information can be stored and used constantly. Genetic material must be stable enough to store this genetic information. 
The Basic Requirements for Genetic Material (i.e., the material that determines the inherited characteristics of a functional organism): 