Automatic Illinois six-month extension We automatically grant you a six-month extension of time to file your tax return. For calendar year filers, the filing date is automatically extended to October 15. You are not required to file Form IL-505-I to obtain this automatic extension. However, you must pay any tentative tax due by the original due date of your return in order to avoid any late-payment penalty and interest on unpaid tax.
Illinois will grant you an additional extension to file of more than six months (seven months for corporations) if the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) grants you an additional extension. If you do not owe any tentative tax, you are not required to file Form IL-505-B.
We will not grant blanket or consolidated extensions. Form IL-1023-C filers: If you are filing Form IL-505-B for an extension to file your Form IL-1023-C, you must write 666 on the SEQ line on this form.
If you determine that you will owe tax, you must use Form IL-505-I, Automatic Extension Payment for Individuals, to pay any tax you owe to avoid penalty and interest on tax not paid by April 15, 2015. MyTax Illinois is an easy way to pay your IL-505-I payment.
Your Illinois filing period is the same as your federal filing period. We will assume that you are filing your Form IL-1040 for calendar year 2014 unless you indicate a different filing period in the space provided at the top of the return. The due date for calendar year filers is April 15, 2015.
An extension of time to file your Form IL-1120 is not an extension of time for payment of Illinois tax. Additional extensions beyond the automatic extension period — We will grant an extension of more than seven months only if an extension of more than six months is granted by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).
Illinois will automatically grant all taxpayers a six-month extension of time to file Form IL-1040. For calendar year filers, the filing date is automatically extended to October 15. You are not required to file Form IL-505-I in order to obtain this automatic extension. However, you must pay any tentative tax due in order to avoid any late-payment penalty and interest on tax not paid by the original due date of your return.