I've read somewhere (can't remember where) that an egg can live for up to 5 days after ovulating. If this is the case then I probably am pregnant. But I read somewhere else that it only lives for up to 48 hours, in which case I'm probably not pregnant. 
After ovulation, the egg lives for about 12-24 hours. Fertilization can take place only during this time period, but the sperm needs at least 9-12 hours inside the woman's body to get ready. That means, your chances getting pregnant are minimal if you make love more than 12 hours after ovulation.
You can begin looking for pregnancy symptoms as early as a week after fertilization. You can also begin testing for pregnancy as early as 7-10 days past your ovulation date with an Early Detection Pregnancy Test. If fertilization does not occur the egg dissolves after 24 hours. At this time your hormone levels will decrease and your uterine lining will begin to shed about 12-16 days from ovulation. This is menstruation (menstrual period) and brings us back to day 1 of your cycle. The journey then begins all over again. The second half of the cycle is called the luteal phase and is from the day of ovulation until the next period begins. The luteal phase has a more precise timeline and usually is only 12-16 days from the day of ovulation. This ultimately means that the day of ovulation will determine how long your cycle is.
How does ovulation determine my fertile days? Your fertile period starts about 4-5 days before ovulation, and ends about 24-48 hours after it. This is because sperm can live in your body for approximately 4 to 5 days, and the egg can live for 24 to 48 hours after being released. You are most fertile on the day before and the day of ovulation. Knowing your fertile days can help you increase your chances of getting pregnant, or avoid an unwanted pregnancy.
Possible: Nobody really knows how long the egg lasts after ovulation but some experts in the field believe that it lasts for ~ 24 hours. I have seen people get pregnant by having intercourse within 24 hours of ovulation, so it is possible. ...Read more. Get help from a doctor now ›. No: The egg is released on ovulation. Usually fertilized in the next 12-24 hours. Then it travels down the fallopian tube for 3-4 days and implants in the uterus around day 5 after
During the menstrual cycle, an egg is released from one of the woman’s ovaries and travels down the fallopian tube. The egg only lives for 24 hours after ovulation, and a sperm must meet the egg within that period for pregnancy to happen. 
Yes | No Thank you! sperm can live up to 5 days, not 3. a human egg is only viable for 12 to 24 hours, you can get pregnant anytime from about five days prior to ovulation to even occasionally two days after, for a total of about seven days. 
Report Abuse. Eggs usually survive 12-24 hours after release. However, sometimes another egg is released within 24 hours of the first egg (how you get fraternal twins), which means you could still get pregnant 48 hours after ovulation. Its possible that's what happened-the timing for the spotting looks good. Best Answer: The egg typically survives no more than 12-24 hours after ovulation. But that doesn't mean you could get pregnant from making love shortly
The average egg lives only 24 hours, so it needs to be quickly after its release from the ovary. If an ova is to be fertilized, it is usually within 12 hours of ovulation, so the sperm must be ready. Sperm can live up to 72 hours once ejaculated. Sometimes the egg is found within 45 minutes for fertilization, while sometimes it can take as long as 12 hours. If the egg isn't yet released from the ovary, it is thought that the sperm can go into a holding pattern for about 24-48 hours while awaiting release of the egg.