1 While donors with Type AB blood can only give red cells to other Type AB recipients, they are the universal plasma donors. 2  The ‘right type’ donation for AB donors may be an apheresis donation of plasma or plasma and platelets. 3  The donation takes approximately 1 hour and 15 minutes. Donation of 'whole blood' is the most common type of blood donation, but there are a few other types of blood donation. Donation types include: 1  Blood (or Whole Blood). 2  Double Red Cells. 3  Platelets. 4  Plasma
Blood Type Compatibility. Some of us can receive blood from people with blood types other than our own. O Rh positive can be given to all other Rh positive blood types. Blood type O Rh negative is referred to as the universal red cell donor because it can be given to all other blood types. However, if you are O Rh negative, that is the only blood type you can receive. Blood types are inherited. The four major blood groups are O, A, B and AB. They are also positive or negative (the Rh factor), creating eight major blood types. Your type is determined by the presence or absence of antigens on the surface of your red blood cells.
Some of these antigens are also present on the surface of other types of cells of various tissues. Several of these red blood cell surface antigens can stem from one allele (or an alternative version of a gene) and collectively form a blood group system. Blood type (or blood group) is determined, in part, by the ABO blood group antigens present on red blood cells. A blood type (also called a blood group) is a classification of blood based on the presence or absence of inherited antigenic substances on the surface of red blood cells (RBCs). These antigens may be proteins, carbohydrates, glycoproteins, or glycolipids, depending on the
1 Group O-is the universal donor, but a person with O-blood type can only receive this type. 2  Group A+ can donate red blood cells to A+ and AB+ recipients. 3  Group A-can donate red blood cells to A+ or A-and to AB+ or AB-recipients. 4  Group B+ can donate red blood cells to B+ and AB+ recipients. Blood types are inherited. The four major blood groups are O, A, B and AB. They are also positive or negative (the Rh factor), creating eight major blood types. Your type is determined by the presence or absence of antigens on the surface of your red blood cells.
ABO blood type system. The ABO system consists of A, B, AB, and O blood types. People with type A have antibodies in the blood against type B. People with type B have antibodies in the blood against type A. People with AB have no anti-A or anti-B antibodies. People with type O have both anti-A and anti-B antibodies. People with type AB blood are called universal recipients, because they can receive any of the ABO types. People with type O blood are called universal donors, because their blood can be given to people with any of the ABO types. Mismatches with the ABO and Rh blood types are responsible for the most serious, sometimes life-threatening, transfusion reactions. But these types of reactions are rare.
1 Everyone has one of four blood types – A, B, AB, or O – which is inherited from your parents. 2  Your blood type is determined by the presence or absence of two antigens – A and B – on the surface of red blood cells. Story at-a-glance 1  +.
Blood types are very important when a blood transfusion is necessary. In a blood transfusion, a patient must receive a blood type compatible with his or her own blood type. If the blood types are not compatible, red blood cells will clump together, making clots that can block blood vessels and cause death. 1 Blood Type B-If the red blood cell has only B molecules on it. 2  Blood Type AB-If the red blood cell has a mixture of both A & B molecules. 3  Blood Type O-If the red blood cell has neither A or B molecule.