Girl. Also see... » Definition of name 'Raveena'. » Origin of name 'Raveena'. » Gender of name 'Raveena'. » Rashi of name 'Raveena'. » Numerology of name 'Raveena'. » Lucky number, color, day, metal, hours for 'Raveena'. » Auspicious stones for 'Raveena'. » Religion of name 'Raveena'. Find qualities of Librans (Tula) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Raveena or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Tula (Libra) with other zodiac signs. Similar sounding names: Rovena, Raven, Ravana, Rivan, Reuven, Rouvin, Ravan.
Ravenna is a lovely, untouristed Italian place-name just waiting to be discovered. Renowned for its fantastic Byzantine mosaics, it's a city that has a rich historic and artistic heritage. Part of the early Roman Republic, Ravenna was where Julius Caesar gathered his forces before crossing the Rubicon. It was the site of Dante 's funeral and burial, Ravenna having been mentioned in his Inferno.
র঵ীনা; રવીના; ரவீநா; రవీనా; ਰਵੀਨਾ; ರವೀನಾ; രവീനാ. Name Raveena generally means Sunny, is of Indian origin, Name Raveena is a Feminine (or Girl) name. Person with name Raveena are mainly Hindu by religion. Name Raveena belongs to rashi Tula (Libra) with dominant planet Venus (Shukra) and Nakshatra (stars) Hastha. Find qualities of Librans (Tula) or Find Numerology, Lucky number, lucky days, lucky color, Auspicious stones for Raveena or Find Chinese zodiac sign or Birthstone for your birthday or Find compatibility of Tula (Libra) with other zodiac signs. Similar sounding names: Rovena, Raven, Ravana, Rivan, Reuven, Rouvin, Ravan.
List of Hindu baby names, Hindu baby boy names (male), girl names (female) & Hindu names meanings has been compiled from various resources. Please use this list of Hindu baby names only for reference/idea to name your kid/child. Database of baby names has been compiled from various references and suggestions provided by our web site visitors and resources partners. Meaning of Raveena in Hindu origin/culture for Girl name with history and fame details. 
[ 3 syll. ra-vee-na, rav-e- ena ] The baby girl name Raveena is pronounced as Raa-V IY-N-aa- †. Raveena is mainly used in the English and Indian languages. It is of Punjabi and English origin. From Punjabi roots, its meaning is beauty of the sun. In addition, Raveena is a variant form of the English name Raven. Raveena is not frequently used as a baby girl name. It is not ranked within the top 1000. Within the family of girl names directly linked to Raveena, Raven was the most commonly used in 2012
Meaning of Indian name: Raveena. Meaning of the name Raveena is 'Sunny'. Raveena is a name of Hindu / Indian origin, and is commonly used for females. The name number for Raveena is '3'. Click here to get the numerological analysis for the name 'Raveena
Ave /ave/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name (also used as boys' name Ave) is of Latin origin, and the meaning of Ave is hail. Ave is an uncommon first name for females but a very popular surname for all people (#68782 out of 150436, Top 46%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Ave for girls.
Meaning of name Raveena, Origin of name Raveena, Personality of name Raveena, Gallery of Cute Indian Baby Pictures of Raveena and adorable Baby Photos of Raveena. All this and lots more... 
Ravenna is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 7 letters and 3 syllables and is pronounced Ra-ve-nna. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 6126 in baby name popularity for girls with 21 occurrences. Less than 5 boys were given the name. English names generally consist of a given name, middle name and family name. Many English speaking countries have fairly flexible naming laws. This allows the multicultural families that live in these countries to merge the naming conventions of their faiths or previous nationalities with their current homeland.