Posted by Staff Writer in Acid Reflux. Using baking soda for acid reflux is an old folk remedy, but its value in treating heartburn has been verified by scientific fact. Baking soda, or sodium bicarbonate, is alkaline. When a small amount is mixed with water, it neutralizes refluxed stomach acid. [1] In fact, one popular effervescent antacid tablet has sodium bicarbonate as its main active ingredient. [2]. 
Despite the neutralizing benefits of baking soda, this method isn’t appropriate for everyone with acid reflux. Since this product contains a form of sodium, you should not use it if you’re following a low-sodium diet. The powder should be mixed into a glass of water. If you want to treat a child with acid reflux, talk to your doctor to determine the right dose. Over-the-counter and prescription tablets may be preferable for patients who don’t care for the taste of baking soda.
1 Take a tablespoon of baking soda and mix it in a 1/2 cup of water. 2  Stir it well and consume it for faster relief. 3  Drink this whenever you suffer from acid reflux but make sure to consult doctor if you’re suffering from continuous acid reflux problem. 4  This will give only temporary relief from the acid reflux. Method – 2: (Baking Soda with Water). 1 
Baking Soda. An old folk remedy for acid reflux is baking soda. HeartburnRelief.com suggests mixing 1 tsp. of baking soda with 1 cup of warm water to help reduce the burning sensation. However, make sure that the baking soda is dissolved before drinking the solution. Although the baking soda may reduce acidity and reflux, it can lead to some undesirable side effects, including stomach gas, which causes an increase in belching, cautions Heartburn-Remedies.org. The extra stomach gas can also result in abdominal distention, discomfort and even pain.
1 Drink this 2 – 3 times a day on an empty stomach for not more than 5 days. 2  If you have severe acid reflux then mix 2 tablespoon of baking soda with 2 tablespoons of apple cider vinegar in water and take this for 2 – 3 times a day to get complete relief from the acid reflux. Method – 2: (Baking Soda with Water). 1  Take a tablespoon of baking soda and mix it in a 1/2 cup of water. 2  Stir it well and consume it for faster relief. 3  Drink this whenever you suffer from acid reflux but make sure to consult doctor if you’re suffering from continuous acid reflux problem.
Baking soda serves as a natural antacid and should be treated as such when using it to deal with baking soda. It is important you do not use too much baking soda just as you would not take too much of an antacid. Click Here For The #1 Heartburn Relief Guide-Heartburn No More. 
1 If you have severe acid reflux then mix 2 tablespoon of baking soda with 2 tablespoons of apple cider vinegar in water and take this for 2 – 3 times a day to get complete relief from the acid reflux. Method – 2: (Baking Soda with Water). 1  Take a tablespoon of baking soda and mix it in a 1/2 cup of water. 2  Stir it well and consume it for faster relief. 3  Drink this whenever you suffer from acid reflux but make sure to consult doctor if you’re suffering from continuous acid reflux problem.
Some people use an acid reflux baking soda recipe that mixes the sodium bicarbonate with apple cider vinegar. The apple cider contains ascetic acid, as this interacts with the sodium bicarbonate it creates sodium acetate, water and carbon dioxide. 
Report Abuse. Use the baking soda, not the baking powder. Use 1 teaspoon of baking soda in a glass of warmed water, not hot nor tepid. Stir and drink slowly but drink it all at once. The soda destabilize the acids in your belly and relief normally is between 30 minutes to an hour. Baking powder makes you yeast