Electroconvulsive Therapy (ECT). Guide. Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is a procedure used to treat severe depression. It may be used in people who have symptoms such as delusions, hallucinations, or suicidal thoughts or when other treatments such as psychotherapy and antidepressant medicines have not worked.
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is a procedure, done under general anesthesia, in which small electric currents are passed through the brain, intentionally triggering a brief seizure. ECT seems to cause changes in brain chemistry that can quickly reverse symptoms of certain mental illnesses.
It is also a misconception that ECT is used as a quick fix in place of long-term therapy or hospitalization. Nor is it correct to believe that the patient is painfully shocked out of the depression. Unfavorable news reports and media coverage have contributed to the controversy surrounding this treatment.
ECT is most often used as a “treatment of last resort” for the following disorders: 1  bipolar disorder: This mood disorder is characterized by periods of intense energy and elation (mania) followed by severe depression. 2  major depressive disorder: This is a common mental disorder.
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT), formerly known as electroshock therapy and often referred to as shock treatment, is a psychiatric treatment in which seizures are electrically induced in patients to provide relief from psychiatric illnesses. It is the only currently used form of shock therapy in psychiatry.
ECT is one of the fastest ways to relieve symptoms in severely depressed or suicidal patients. It's also very effective for patients who suffer from mania or other mental illnesses. ECT is generally used when severe depression is unresponsive to other forms of therapy. Or it might be used when patients pose a severe threat to themselves or others and it is too dangerous to wait until medications take effect.
Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) can provide rapid, significant improvements in severe symptoms of several mental health conditions. ECT is used to treat: 1  Severe depression, particularly when accompanied by detachment from reality (psychosis), a desire to commit suicide or refusal to eat.