Page 2 of 12 ABSTRACT A universal approach for determining the extractable and leachable metals in pharmaceutical products by Inductively Coupled Plasma Mass Spectrometry (ICPMS) is investigated. Also, certain metals at extremely low levels may not be detected, thus there is the potential for their presence in the drug product to go unnoticed. The universal approach involves a complete acid digestion of the packaging material and drug product. Sample solutions are then analysis by ICPMS.
Gold heap leaching. Heap leaching is an industrial mining process to extract precious metals, copper, uranium, and other compounds from ore via a series of chemical reactions that absorb specific minerals and then re-separates them after their division from other earth materials. The crushed ore is irrigated with a dilute alkaline cyanide solution. The solution containing the dissolved precious metals ( pregnant solution ) continues percolating through the crushed ore until it reaches the liner at the bottom of the heap where it drains into a storage (pregnant solution) pond.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Leaching is the process of extracting minerals from a solid by dissolving them in a liquid, either in nature or through an industrial process. Because in leaching the solute is being extracted from the solid this is also called extraction. In leaching, when an undesirable component is removed from a solid with water, the process is called washing.
leach. v. leached, leach·ing, leach·es. v. tr. 1. To remove soluble or other constituents from by the action of a percolating liquid: heavy rains that leached the soil of minerals. 2. To remove from a substance by the action of a percolating liquid: acids in groundwater that leach calcium out of the bedrock. 3.
Each ore. block was then classified by its “leachable copper” content: less than 25 percent, equal or. greater than 25 percent but less than 50 percent, equal or greater than 50 percent but less. than 75 percent and equal or greater than 75 percent. It is therefore necessary to experimentally measure the rate of copper recovery for each of the forms of copper. No experimental technique is available to divide the experimental recovery/time curve from a column leach test into the individual recovery/time curves for the different copper components of an ore.
The main leachable components are iron, chromium and nickel. Several fold higher levels of metals such as iron and nickel have been shown to leach into a liquid formulation after storage at room temperature in unpassivated compared to passivated stainless steel vessels [12]. An example of such a compound is Bisphenol A that has recently come up for extra scrutiny [2]. Leachables can also potentially negatively impact product quality by interacting with the active substance or excipients leading to altered physico-chemical properties as well as reduced stability and shelf-life.
Stainless steel is a typical contact material used during the manufacturing, shipping, and storage process for biologic products. Stainless steel commonly used in biopharmaceutical applications is of the grade 316L and is an alloy containing mainly iron, nickel, chromium with minor amounts of manganese and vanadium. Stainless steel is a major source for metal leachables, especially if the surface of the equipment or tank is not properly treated. An example of such a compound is Bisphenol A that has recently come up for extra scrutiny [2]. Leachables can also potentially negatively impact product quality by interacting with the active substance or excipients leading to altered physico-chemical properties as well as reduced stability and shelf-life.
Similar to copper oxide heap leaching, also using dilute sulfuric acid. Rio Tinto is commercializing this technology in Namibia and Australia, the French nuclear power company Areva in Niger (two mines) and Namibia, and several other companies are studying its feasibility. The crushed ore is irrigated with a dilute alkaline cyanide solution. The solution containing the dissolved precious metals ( pregnant solution ) continues percolating through the crushed ore until it reaches the liner at the bottom of the heap where it drains into a storage (pregnant solution) pond.
The method is similar to the cyanide method, above, except sulfuric acid is used to dissolve copper from its ores. The acid is recycled from the solvent extraction circuit (see solvent extraction-electrowinning, SX/EW) and reused on the leach pad. The crushed ore is irrigated with a dilute alkaline cyanide solution. The solution containing the dissolved precious metals ( pregnant solution ) continues percolating through the crushed ore until it reaches the liner at the bottom of the heap where it drains into a storage (pregnant solution) pond.