Some species in the Cyatheales have tree-like growth forms, but others have rhizomes. Some species have scales on the stems and leaves, while others have hairs. However, most plants in the Cyatheales are tree ferns and have trunk-like stems up to 10 metres (33 ft) tall. It is unclear how many times the tree form has evolved and been lost in the order. The order Cyatheales, which includes the tree ferns, is a taxonomic division of the fern class, Polypodiopsida.
A fern is a member of a group of approximately 12,000 species of vascular plants that reproduce via spores and have neither seeds nor flowers. They differ from mosses by being vascular (i.e. having water-conducting vessels). They have stems and leaves, like other vascular plants. Most ferns have what are called fiddleheads that expand into fronds, which are each delicately divided. Leptosporangiate ferns (sometimes called true ferns) are by far the largest group, but ferns as defined here (ferns sensu lato) include horsetails, whisk ferns, marattioid ferns, and ophioglossoid ferns.
The fronds of tree ferns are usually very large and multiple-pinnated, but at least one type has entire (undivided) fronds. The fronds of tree ferns also exhibit circinate vernation, meaning the young fronds emerge in coils that uncurl as they grow. The order Cyatheales, which includes the tree ferns, is a taxonomic division of the fern class, Polypodiopsida.
Japanese fern tree is storybook pretty with a naturally rounded crown and unusual fern-like foliage. Its bushy growth creates dense shade and the globe-shaped top means no trimming required. This is a very elegant little tree, and it's one of the best small shade trees to tuck into any size yard. And it's ideal for the nit-picky homeowner who loves all things symmetrical. It's neither Japanese in origin nor a fern-though the long thin leaves growing out from stems have a fern-like look. The small size - 20 or 25 feet-makes the fern tree a good choice for a small front yard for house or mobile home. Or it can be used in conjunction with other plantings, because the foliage has a unique tropical look
Bracken is a large fern, sometimes growing over three feet tall. Instead of the usual leaves, ferns have fronds, made up of smaller leaflets (groups of mini-leaves) with small pinnae (tiny mini-leaves) on them. Bracken fronds are shaped like triangles. Each frond usually has three leaflets. Bracken grow in large colonies in fields, brushy areas, and woods
Tree ferns are true ferns. Like other ferns, they never flower or produce seeds. They reproduce from spores that grow on the undersides of the fronds or from offsets. A tree fern’s unusual trunk consists of a thin stem surrounded by thick, fibrous roots. The fronds on many tree ferns remain green throughout the year. In a few species, they turn brown and hang around the top of the trunk, much like palm tree leave
Outside of the Cyatheales a few ferns in other groups could be considered tree ferns, such as several ferns in the family Osmundaceae that can achieve short trunks under 1 metre (3.3 ft) tall. The order Cyatheales, which includes the tree ferns, is a taxonomic division of the fern class, Polypodiopsida.
And this is where your new fronds come from. The fronds on this plant reach 1 to 2 feet long and they have a nice glossy green, dark foliage to them. The fronds can reach up to 10 inches wide, so you get really large fronds with this particular fern. Today we are looking at Hardy Evergreen Ferns. We are here in the South Carolina Botanical Gardens and we are going to look at a few evergreen ferns. Now, when we think of evergreen, we think of plants usually like our trees and shrubs that hold their foliage for 2 to 3 years.