Medical school lasts about 4 years. The first 2 years are spent refining your science education specifically in anatomy, chemistry and biochemistry. You learn how to take a medical history and proper diagnostic techniques. The second 2 years are spent working in a hospital environment. After 4 years of medical school, you will write an exam to obtain your MD. Then, an additional 3 to 7 years picking a specialty such as family medicine, psychiatry, dermatology, etc. Whew! After all of that time, you will write an exam and obtain your certificate in the area of your choice.
Introduction. In order to become a physician, you must complete a three or four year Medical Doctor (MD) degree program at an accredited university, followed by family medicine or specialty post-graduate training. 
I was wondering how long does it take to beomce an ER Doctor. I know there 4 years of college and medical school. But ive been hearing about how it takes over about 9 years to become one, How long will it take until i can actually start working, sorry but i wouldnt want to wait that long to start... Source(s): long er doctor: https://tr.im/11jYR. Elaine · 2 months ago.
LV16 High School 2+ Year Member. hSDNMember. To answer your question about how long it takes to become a doctor, four years of your undergraduate studies, then four years of medical school, and then 3-7 years of residency I believe (depending on the specialty you choose). So if you're 19, you'll be done with your undergrad. stuff at 23 right? and do a Family medicine residency (2 years in Canada). More likely you will take 4 years of undergrad, and get into a 4 year MD program (the 3 year MD programs are at McMaster and Calgary). This is assuming no gap years and you get in straight after undergrad.
I was wondering how long does it take to beomce an ER Doctor. I know there 4 years of college and medical school. But ive been hearing about how it takes over about 9 years to become one, How long will it take until i can actually start working, sorry but i wouldnt want to wait that long to start my long-term... I know there 4 years of college and medical school. But ive been hearing about how it takes over about 9 years to become one, How long will it take until i can actually start working, sorry but i wouldnt want to wait that long to start... Source(s): long er doctor: https://tr.im/11jYR. Elaine · 2 months ago.
I was wondering how long does it take to beomce an ER Doctor. I know there 4 years of college and medical school. But ive been hearing about how it takes over about 9 years to become one, How long will it take until i can actually start working, sorry but i wouldnt want to wait that long to start my long-term career. I know there 4 years of college and medical school. But ive been hearing about how it takes over about 9 years to become one, How long will it take until i can actually start working, sorry but i wouldnt want to wait that long to start... Source(s): long er doctor: https://tr.im/11jYR. Elaine · 2 months ago.
Best Answer: Becoming a doctor requires more training than most other jobs. It usually takes at least 11 years to become a doctor: 4 years of college, 4 years of medical school, and 3 years working in a hospital. For some specialties, doctors may have to work in a hospital for up to 8 years before they are trained. To become a doctor, you should study biology, chemistry, physics, math, and English. It is not easy to get into medical school. You have to do very well in college and on medical school entrance tests. Students spend most of the first 2 years of medical school in labs and classrooms. They take lots of science courses.
Tweet. Both in Canada in the United States the basic requirements to become a doctor include a Bachelor’s degree, although, rarely, some students enter from 2nd or 3d year. Assume you will need 4 years before getting into medical school. Before you apply for medical school, you must write the MCAT exam that tests your knowledge across a broad spectrum of categories. This is why it is important for you to round out your science classes with social sciences as well. After 4 years of medical school, you will write an exam to obtain your MD. Then, an additional 3 to 7 years picking a specialty such as family medicine, psychiatry, dermatology, etc. Whew! After all of that time, you will write an exam and obtain your certificate in the area of your choice.
So for that your looking at a minimum of 3 years to complete 90 credits or 4 years for most degrees. Once you are in medical school you will be there for 4 years and then you would apply for residency in the area you are choosing to specialize in. I believe that in order to be a general practitioner the residency is 2 years long. 