Noun. 1. art deco-a style of design that was popular in the 1920s and 1930s; marked by stylized forms and geometric designs adapted to mass production. deco. art movement, artistic movement-a group of artists who agree on general principles.
Art Deco (/ˌɑrt ˈdɛkoʊ/), or Deco, is an influential visual arts design style that first appeared in France just before World War I and began flourishing internationally in the 1920s, 1930s and 1940s before its popularity waned after World War II.
Art Deco was the last splendidly self-indulgent decorative style, one described lightheartedly by Brian J. R. Blench in the Spring issue of the Art Deco Society of New York’s newsletter in 1985 as “for luxury and leisure, for comfort and conviviality.
When I arrived in Miami, the term art deco was something of a mystery to me. Of course, it had something to do with buildings in bright pastel colors... Miami Vice had taught me that much. But to pinpoint art deco and appreciate its ancient origins took me a little time.
Art Deco (1920 - 1940) is a design style that embraced every area of design and the decorative arts, including architecture, interiors, furniture, jewelry, painting and graphics, bookbinding, costume, glass and ceramics. It was all about glamor. Find out more www.thecultureconcept.com/circle.
Art Deco is undoubtedly one of the most popular and long-lasting movements in the history of design. Its influence extends beyond home furnishings to architecture, fashion, interior design, automobiles and jewellery. It inspired many of the contemporary furniture designs that we see today.
Write a guide. In the 1920s and 1930s, the art-deco style was wildly popular and influenced the design of almost everything, from architecture to furniture to clothing. Art-deco style is generally described as having precise, boldly delineated geometric shapes and strong colors.
Full Definition of ART DECO. : a popular design style of the 1920s and 1930s characterized especially by bold outlines, geometric and zigzag forms, and the use of new materials (as plastic). See art deco defined for English-language learners.