Airlines to several important cities around the world depart from the Brindisi airport, Italy. Air Berlin to Munich, Venice-Marco Polo Air one, Paris-Orly EasyJet and Milan-Linate Meridiana Fly are some popular examples. A local bus can take you to the city center at Brindisi, the greatest convenience being that they are arranged in connection with the arrival and departure times of flights at the Brindisi Airport. The ticket costs 3 Euros.
From the city center of Brindisi to the terminals you will need approx. 11 minutes by car, as the distance is about 3 miles. To have a look at the Brindisi-Airport Flight Information please check the Arrivals & Departures section. And if you plan to visit Italy please keep in mind that the official currency is Euro. Brindisi Airport. Brindisi-Airport is one of the medium-sized airports in Italy. It is an international airport with more than 2m passengers per year (incoming, outgoing and transit). The runways are located 14 hours away from London and from here the shortest possible connection is a 1 Stop Over flight
Brindisi Airport. We work with all the leading car hire companies at Brindisi Airport (BDS), including Avis, Buchbinder, Budget, Enterprise, Europcar, Firefly, Goldcar, Hertz, InterRent, Locauto, Maggiore, MoriniRent, Noleggiare, Sicily By Car, Smile Rent, Thrifty.
Brindisi Airport. Brindisi Airport also known by the names of Papola Casale Airport or Aeroporto del Salento is located in Southern Italy. It is so called because it is located three kilometers north of the beautiful and picturesque Italian seaport town of Papola Casole. A local bus can take you to the city center at Brindisi, the greatest convenience being that they are arranged in connection with the arrival and departure times of flights at the Brindisi Airport. The ticket costs 3 Euros.
Brindisi Airport is situated in the Puglia region of Italy and serves the south-east of the country including Bari and Lecce. Brindisis style is largely defined by its picturesque port and a pleasant town centre. Car hire at Brindisi Airport gives you access to the entire region of Puglia along with neighbouring cities such as Lecce.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Brindisi – Salento Airport (IATA: BDS, ICAO: LIBR) (Italian: Brindisi – Aeroporto del Salento), formerly Brindisi Papola Casale Airport, is an airport near Brindisi in southern Italy. It serves as a focus city for the regional airline Air Vallee. vallée 
Brindisi Airport Arrivals/Departures. Brindisi Airport, otherwise known as Airport, is located 2Km North of Brindisi, on the south east coast. A bus service links the airport with Brindisi and Lecce (the 30 minute journey costing approximately 6 Euros). Taxis are available. Facilities include 4 bars/restaurants, 5 shops, an ATM, an Interneet point, and FREE WiFi Internet access.
Brindisi Airport is just one of Brindisi's many landmarks to discover. Secure the lowest rates for your trip with Agoda.com at any hotel near Airports. The choice of accommodation near Brindisi Airport greatly varies from luxurious hotels to affordable guesthouses. 