Overview of Hypothalamic and Pituitary Hormones. The pituitary gland is often portrayed as the master gland of the body. Such praise is justified in the sense that the anterior and posterior pituitary secrete a battery of hormones that collectively influence all cells and affect virtually all physiologic processes. The pituitary gland may be king, but the power behind the throne is clearly the hypothalamus. As alluded to in the last section, some of the neurons within the hypothalamus-neurosecretory neurons-secrete hormones that strictly control secretion of hormones from the anterior pituitar
Best Answer: Some of the hormones synthesized and secreted by the special neurons of the hypothalamus are called hypothalamic releasing and inhibiting hormones or factors. They act directly on the tissues of the anterior pituitary gland. 
The hypothalamus is responsible for certain metabolic processes and other activities of the autonomic nervous system. It synthesizes and secretes certain neurohormones, often called releasing hormones or hypothalamic hormones, and these in turn stimulate or inhibit the secretion of pituitary hormones. 
Cells in the hypothalamus synthesize at least nine different hormones. The neurons of the gland secrete hormones called neurohormones (= releasing factors) which are given below: 1) Adenocorticotropic Releasing Hormone (ARH) or Corticotropin Releasing Hormone. 2) Thyrotropin Releasing Hormone (TRH). TRH is produced by the hypothalamus in medial neurons of the  paraventricular  nucleus.[3]  At the beginning, it is synthesized as a 242-amino acid precursor  polypeptide … that contains 6 copies of the sequence  -Gln-His-Pro-Gly-, flanked by Lys-Arg or Arg-Arg sequences.
Prolactin, which stimulates milk production Thyroid stimulating hormone, which stimulates the thyroid gland to secrete thyroid hormones. There are also some hormones that are produced by the hypothalamus and then stored in the posterior pituitary gland prior to being released into the bloodstream. The anterior pituitary gland produces the following hormones and releases them into the bloodstream: 1  Adrenocorticotropic hormone, which stimulates the adrenal glands to secrete steroid hormones, principally cortisol.
There are two sets of nerve cells in the hypothalamus that produce hormones. One set sends the hormones they produce down through the pituitary stalk to the posterior lobe of the pituitary gland where these hormones are released directly into the bloodstream. These hormones are anti-diuretic hormone and oxytocin. The hypothalamus is located on the undersurface of the brain. It lies just below the thalamus and above the pituitary gland, to which it is attached by a stalk. It is an extremely complex part of the brain containing many regions with highly specialised functions.
The hypothalamus by itself does not produce any hormones, but regulates the hormone production by endocrine glands by releasing various controlling factors that act on the pit … uitary and help in maintaining balance. 1. ACRH (adrenocortin releasing hormone) 2. The posterior lobe of the pituitary releases the two hormones it receives from the hypothalamus, called vasopressin and oxytocin, into the bloodstream. Vasopressin plays a role in the fluid balance of the body; oxytocin is thought to pace the onset and progress of labor during childbirth.
The hypothalamus by itself does not produce any hormones, but regulates the hormone production by endocrine glands by releasing various controlling factors that act on the pit … uitary and help in maintaining balance. 1. ACRH (adrenocortin releasing hormone) 2. TRH is produced by the hypothalamus in medial neurons of the  paraventricular  nucleus.[3]  At the beginning, it is synthesized as a 242-amino acid precursor  polypeptide … that contains 6 copies of the sequence  -Gln-His-Pro-Gly-, flanked by Lys-Arg or Arg-Arg sequences.
The posterior pituitary is, in effect, a projection of the hypothalamus. It does not produce its own hormones, but only stores and releases the hormones created by the hypothalamus, whereas the anterior pituitary produces and secretes its own hormones. Although the hypothalamus does not produce the hormones of the anterior pituitary as in the posterior pituitary, it plays an important role in their production. Releasing hormones synthesized by hypothalamic neurons travel down axons and diffuse into the primary plexus of the hypophyseal portal system.