Full Definition of INFRASTRUCTURE. 1. : the underlying foundation or basic framework (as of a system or organization). 2. : the permanent installations required for military purposes. 3. 
noun. The definition of infrastructure is the basic facilities and installations that help a government or community run, including roads, schools, phone lines, sewage treatment plants and power generation. An example of infrastructure is the basic roads and power lines for a new housing development. infrastructure-Investment & Finance Definition. 1  The physical underpinning of a country that support activities and transportation, such as roads, railways, electrical systems, and so on. 2  In contemporary jargon, the basic abilities and structure of a company
For an organization's information technology, infrastructure management (IM) is the management of essential operation components, such as policies, processes, equipment, data, human resources, and external contacts, for overall effectiveness. 
Infrastructure (economics) [r]: The institutions and networks that are a necessary adjunct to a country's normal economic activity, including its legal system, its financial system, its other markets; and its communication, transportation, and energy supply networks. [e] ... INFRASTRUCTURE. Infrastructure. Definition: The underlying amount of physical and financial capital that is embodied in the transport, communication, energy and public service s e.g. roads, railways, powerstations, schools, bridges, sewers and hospitals. Finding out more...
DEFINITION of 'Infrastructure'. The basic physical systems of a business or nation. Transportation, communication, sewage, water and electric systems are all examples of infrastructure. These systems tend to be high-cost investments, however, they are vital to a country's economic development and prosperity
Definition. The basic physical systems of a country's or community's population, including roads, utilities, water, sewage, etc. These systems are considered essential for enabling productivity in the economy. Developing infrastructure often requires large initial investment, but the economies of scale tend to be significant
Use infrastructure in a sentence. Show more usage examples... Urban infrastructure in parts of New York City include the Empire State Building, the Trump Tower, and every building and road in between that is useful to the average citizen living there. 7 people found this helpful.