The law on leaving your child on their own. The law doesn’t say an age when you can leave a child on their own, but it’s an offence to leave a child alone if it places them at risk. Use your judgement on how mature your child is before you decide to leave them alone, eg at home or in a car. 
Laws for Leaving a Child Home Alone. Only a couple of states have laws that specify the age when a child can be left home alone, including Maryland (age 8) and Illinois (age 14). However, most states have guidelines with the Department of Health and Human Services or other child protective agencies that test a child's ability to be left home alone. 8 to 10 years-Should not be left alone for more than 1½ hours and only during daylight and early evening hours. 11 to 12 years-May be left alone for up to 3 hours but not late at night or in circumstances requiring inappropriate responsibility. 13 to 15 years-May be left unsupervised, but not overnight
The official website of Erie County, Pennsylvania, recommends never leaving a child under 10 home alone. Parents must decide for themselves whether a child can be left home alone, rather than decide strictly by age, according to the U.S. Administration for Children & Families. Parents should consider how safe their neighborhood is when making the decision. Considerations. A parent should consider how mature and responsible a child is before leaving him home alone, even if he's above the age of 12. A child must be mature enough and able to handle being home alone safely.
You’re the best judge of when your child is ready to be left at home alone. It’s not just about your child’s age – her maturity is also important. You might feel confident leaving a 12-year-old who’s very responsible, but quite worried about a 15-year-old who takes a lot of risks. Preparing for leaving children home alone. If you’ve decided that your child is ready to be left at home alone, it’s a good idea to do some preparation. The first thing is building up gradually.
Please watch your kids. The legal age when you can leave a kid home is 12. But that is the legal requirement, parents should always think twice before leaving a small kid in the hands of a 12 year old. 12 year old is still a small kid and giving a responsibility of a an even younger kid to a 12 year can be dangerous. And it depends on the child’s demonstrated level of maturity and responsibility, also. Leaving a 9-year-old home alone engrossed in a video game for ten minutes while you pick up another child from a friend’s house is probably fine, but leaving a 9-year-old home alone all afternoon and evening isn’t the best idea.
In Illinois, it's not illegal just to leave a child under the age of 14 alone at home. Child abandonment is knowingly leaving a child under the age of 13 alone without a responsible person over the age of 14 for a period of 24 hours or more while ignoring that child's mental or physical health, safety, or well-being.
There’s no one law in Australia that says at what age you can or can’t leave your child home alone. In Queensland if you leave a child under 12 years of age for an ‘unreasonable time’ without supervision you have committed a misdemeanour. However, the legislation also says that whether the time is unreasonable depends on all the relevant circumstances. Preparing for leaving children home alone. If you’ve decided that your child is ready to be left at home alone, it’s a good idea to do some preparation. The first thing is building up gradually.
Below are general guidelines to follow when considering the age range for leaving a child home alone. 7 & under-Should not be left alone for any period of time. This may include leaving children unattended in cars, playgrounds, and backyards. 8 to 10 years-Should not be left alone for more than 1½ hours and only during daylight and early evening hours. 11 to 12 years-May be left alone for up to 3 hours but not late at night or in circumstances requiring inappropriate responsibility. 13 to 15 years-May be left unsupervised, but not overnight
Legal age for kids home alone. Some states have laws governing what age you can legally leave them home, ranging from age 8 all the way to age 14. Check out the list here to see the specific laws in your state. Most states, however, do not have laws, leaving the decision up to the parent. After taking into account their child's maturity, many parents think you can leave kids home alone for short periods of time starting at age eight or nine.