Children should wait until they are about 13 or 14 to start lifting, but children can use their own body weight for pushups or pull-ups at just about any age. It is more advisable to start weight lifting at the right age. Because, some says if a boy starts weight lifting at an early age they not get tall. And their height will be the same as they start.
Confidence votes 2. Yes this is very VITAL for future muscle development. I and others recommend 13 as a good age to start lifting, depending on what body type you are will determine the weight you should be lifting. After lifting to grow the muscle i would recommend muscle milk, or other types of protein shakes to build the muscles and repair them as well
It is very common for a young boy to want to start lifting weights. In most cases it actually has very little to do with getting shape or feeling better. It has much to do with mimicking dad or, as a boy gets older, looking better, looking more masculine, and looking more attractive to the opposite sex. 1 An adult can set a rigorous schedule of lifting 5 to 6 times per week. 2  However, a boy should not keep that kind of schedule. 3  It is often recommended that a boy workout 2 to perhaps 3 times a week at maximum. 4  This will ensure that there are no issues with overworking muscle, which can result in serious injuries.
Confidence votes 29. At the age of 21, a boy can start weight lifting. It is more advisable to start weight lifting at the right age. Because, some says if a boy starts weight lifting at an early age they not get tall. And their height will be the same as they start.
Claude Parcon. Personal Trainer. MaxPreps.com. Around puberty, or 13-14 years of age, is a typical mark for youngsters to start lifting weights. I have trained kids from ages 9-12 in simple strength training like resistance bands, light free weights, and body weight exercises. 
However, the question that comes up often is what age should a boy start lifting weights and what are the reasons for and against when it comes to young boy’s weight lifting. As a child's body is still developing, safety needs to be a primary concern. 1 An adult can set a rigorous schedule of lifting 5 to 6 times per week. 2  However, a boy should not keep that kind of schedule. 3  It is often recommended that a boy workout 2 to perhaps 3 times a week at maximum. 4  This will ensure that there are no issues with overworking muscle, which can result in serious injuries.
There are body building competitions for boys as young as 13 years old. Is this too young? Just like any just about any other issue, there are plenty of opinions on both sides. Some experts say that age 13 is too young to start a weight training regimen while other equally-qualified experts see no harm in it at all. Some people say that adolescent boys (about 13 years old) should not be weight training because they believe the risk of injuries is too great and that it can even result in stunted growth. I researched this idea and didn't found any credible sources to validate it though.
As soon as your child is ready, start including strength training three days a week as part of your child's recommended 60 minutes of daily exercise. It is much easier for children who are 7 or 8 to understand ideas that are not abstract. According to the American Council on Exercise, children can begin their journey with lifting weights around the age of 7 or 8, or as soon as they understand how to follow directions.
However, a short and to the point answer is that a boy should not start lifting weights before he hits puberty, usually around 12 to 13 years of age. The main reason for this is simply due to a developmental difference in boys who have hit puberty and those boys that have not. 1 An adult can set a rigorous schedule of lifting 5 to 6 times per week. 2  However, a boy should not keep that kind of schedule. 3  It is often recommended that a boy workout 2 to perhaps 3 times a week at maximum. 4  This will ensure that there are no issues with overworking muscle, which can result in serious injuries.