An Australian exclamation of surprise or bewilderment. Interchangeable with words such as Blimey or Struth. Made famous by our champion crocodile hugger, Steve Erwin. 
Definition of CROCK. 1. : a thick earthenware pot or jar. 2. [from its formation on cooking pots] dial: soot, smut. 3. : coloring matter that rubs off from cloth or dyed leather. 4. Middle English, from Old English crocc; akin to Old English crūce pot, pitcher, Middle High German krūche. First Known Use: before 12th century.
3 crock + -y. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
crock. A. N. 1. (= earthenware pot) → vasija f de barro. it's a crock of shit (esp US) → es una sandez, es una gilipollez(Sp) , es una pendejada(Andes, Mex) , es una huevada(Andes, S. Cone). 2. (= person) (also old crock) → carcamal m, vejete/a m/f; (= car etc) → cacharro m. B. VT → lisiar, incapacitar. [ˈkrɒk] n. crock. n. 1. (Ceramics) an earthen pot, jar, etc. 2. (Ceramics) a piece of broken earthenware. 3.
This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
Definition of CROCKY. : impaired in one's powers: physically frail. ADVERTISEMENT. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
Meg was entertaining Sallie Gardiner in the parlor, when the door flew open and a floury, crocky, flushed, and disheveled figure appeared, demanding tartly. Little Women by Alcott, Louisa May View in context. My friend Crocky Doyle was liked everywhere, and deemed to be rather impetuous--but the honestest fellow. 
: impaired in one's powers: physically frail. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
Noun. 1. crock-a black colloidal substance consisting wholly or principally of amorphous carbon and used to make pigments and ink. carbon black, lampblack, smut, soot. crock. n. 1. (Ceramics) an earthen pot, jar, etc. 2. (Ceramics) a piece of broken earthenware. 3.