SOLUTION. Performing a Factory data reset: 1  Click the Menu button and tap Settings. 2  Tap Privacy and, in the Personal data section, select Factory data reset. 3  Tap Reset Phone and then Erase everything to confirm. 4  The smartphone will shut down and reboot, restoring factory default settings. In case you want to restore your Android based smartphone to the factory default settings, it is possible to perform a Factory data reset from within the Android operating system. PRECAUTION. A Factory data reset will erase all your personal information, any contacts stored on your phone and any programs you installed
If you plan on selling or donating your smartphone and want to make sure all of your data is off of it, make sure you do more than just factory reset through the phone's OS. Security researchers picked up several phones wiped this way, and found tons of data. Your phone is a treasure trove of information about you, and often includes photos, downloaded documents, app passwords and more. It's worth the time to make sure it's completely blank before you sell or give it away.
When you do a software reset, your data and the setting are safe; you don’t lose any data or configurations when you perform this type of reset. If you want to clear all the data and your device’s setting, and you want to return your smartphone to the factory defaults settings, a hardware restart is able to help you. How to reset software the LG Optimus Android smartphone: 1  First you have to remove the LG Optimus’s battery, to do that place your fingernail in the back smartphone in the slot between the back cover and the top of your LG smartphone body and lift up to remove the device’s battery from your LG Optimus device.
It’s always a good idea to know how to reboot and reset your smartphone. If it ever goes on the fritz and freezes, a simple forced reboot may be all it needs. Or, if you’re planning on returning or selling it, you’ll want to know how to do a factory reset to purge all of your personal information. 
Should you discover any information stored in the phone prior to your use, it is an indicator that the phone may not be entirely safe and that it was not fully refurbished. If a phone was not reset to factory settings, yet sold as refurbished, this could also be an indication that it was stolen or recovered. 
Note: Before performing a reset, ensure that your smartphone is not locked. Press any key or tap the screen to see if the phone responds. A clean boot will restore your smartphone to factory settings. There are two methods available to reset the Liquid E smartphone back to factory settings. 1 Turn off your phone then press and hold the Power until you feel your smartphone vibrate or you see the Acer logo screen. 2  Press and hold the Volume up and Volume down buttons. 3  Use the Volume up button to select Clean boot: YES. 4  Press the camera button to confirm.
The most likely culprit for a phone or tablet that always boots into Safe Mode is a stuck or malfunctioning button. 1  Remove any case or gel skin from your device. 2  If the case is depressing the Menu key, it can cause it to load into Safe Mode. The most likely culprit for a phone or tablet that always boots into Safe Mode is a stuck or malfunctioning button. 1  Remove any case or gel skin from your device. 2  Press each of the keys and buttons several times, to make sure none of them are stuck. 3  Restart your phone.
If your phone is not responding to screen input: 1  Turn off your phone then press and hold the Power until you feel your smartphone vibrate or you see the Acer logo screen. 2  Press and hold the Volume up and Volume down buttons. 3  Use the Volume up button to select Clean boot: YES. 4  Press the camera button to confirm. 1