The Difference Between Tocopherol and Tocotrienol. Tocopherol is one of the 2 members of the vitamin E family. The other member is known as tocotrienol. Vitamin E incorporates 8 different compounds. These include 4 tocopherols (alpha, beta, gamma and delta) and 4 tocotrienols (alpha, beta, gamma and delta). Both of them require fat in the diet in order to be absorbed and distributed within the body. Although it may seem like the two members are similar, various differences exist between them as outlined below. 
Tocotrienols are natural compounds found in select vegetable oils, including rice bran oil and palm oil, wheat germ, barley, saw palmetto, anatto, and certain other types of seeds, nuts, grains, and the oils derived from them. This variant of vitamin E typically only occurs at very low levels in nature. Chemically, vitamin E in all of its forms functions as an antioxidant. All of the tocotrienol and tocopherol isomers have this antioxidant activity due to the ability to donate a hydrogen atom (a proton plus electron) from the hydroxyl group on the chromanol ring, to a free radical in the body.
Tocotrienols, which are related compounds, also have vitamin E activity. All of these various derivatives with vitamin activity may correctly be referred to as  vitamin E . Tocopherols and tocotrienols are fat-soluble antioxidants but also seem to have many other functions in the body. The proportion of vitamin E to other tocopherols in a nutrient source varies greatly. For example, the tocopherol content is 96% vitamin E in almonds and 9% vitamin E in poppy seeds.
An essential nutrient for the body, vitamin E is made up of four tocopherols (alpha, beta, gamma, delta) and four tocotrienols (alpha, beta, gamma, delta). Chemically, vitamin E in all of its forms functions as an antioxidant. All of the tocotrienol and tocopherol isomers have this antioxidant activity due to the ability to donate a hydrogen atom (a proton plus electron) from the hydroxyl group on the chromanol ring, to a free radical in the body.
The first-ever scientific compilation of tocotrienol research, Tocotrienols: Vitamin E Beyond Tocopherols, was published in 2008 by CRC and AOCS Press, while a second edition was published in 2013. Chemically, vitamin E in all of its forms functions as an antioxidant. All of the tocotrienol and tocopherol isomers have this antioxidant activity due to the ability to donate a hydrogen atom (a proton plus electron) from the hydroxyl group on the chromanol ring, to a free radical in the body.
Comparison of Tocotrienols and Tocopherols. Until recently, there had not been much discussion of the tocotrienol portion of the vitamin E family. This is due to several factors, but the most significant is the emphasis of alpha tocopherol at the expense of the rest of the vitamin E complex. While the chromanol “heads” of the respective alpha, beta, gamma, and delta tocopherols and tocotrienols are the same, they differ in their hydrocarbon “tails.”. 1  Tocopherols have phytyl side chains attached to their chromanol nuclei. 2  Tocotrienols have tails that are unsaturated and form an isoprenoid chain.
The term vitamin E actually refers not just to one molecule, but a family of molecules that are chemically similar. That's why sometimes you'll see the words mixed tocopherols on a vitamin E label. There are multiple forms of tocopherol, including alpha and gamma, and a sub-family of compounds called tocotrienols. The most predominant molecule in the vitamin E family is alpha-tocopherol, and most of the time, when one says tocopherol, they are referring to alpha-tocopherol. (As I will be doing for the purposes of this discussion.). Tocopheryl acetate is the ester of 
The vitamin E family consists of four tocopherols and four tocotrienols each designated as alpha, beta, gamma, or delta based upon slight differences in attached molecules. 
The vitamin E family consists of four tocotrienols and four tocopherols. D alpha tocopherol is the commonly understood form of vitamin E and has been extensively researched and has its own value to human health. The difference between tocotrienols and tocopherols is the “tail” on the vitamin E molecule. Tocopherols have a long saturated tail. Tocotrienols have a short unsaturated tail. The unique structure of tocotrienols enables them to do many things that tocopherols cannot do