Macroeconomics. The tertiary industry is one of three industry types in a developed economy, the other two being the primary (raw materials) and secondary (goods production) industries. As an economy becomes more developed, it will shift its focus from primary to secondary and tertiary industries. BREAKING DOWN 'Tertiary Industry'. The tertiary industry is one of three industry types in a developed economy, the other two being the primary (raw materials) and secondary (goods production) industries.
The primary sector of the economy is the sector of an economy making direct use of natural resources. Primary industry is a larger sector in developing countries; for instance, animal husbandry is more common in Africa than in Japan. Mining in 19th-century South Wales provides a case study of how an economy can come to rely on one form of activity.
The three sectors of the economy are (i). Firms in the secondary sector need the output of (j) producers so they can process or (k) goods and services and primary producers need secondary sector producers to buy their (l) and provide them with income. Activities associated with the primary sector include agriculture (both subsistence and commercial), mining, forestry, farming, grazing, hunting and gathering, fishing, and quarrying. The packaging and processing of the raw material associated with this sector is also considered to be part of this sector.
This sector generally takes the output of the primary sector and manufactures finished goods or where they are suitable for use by other businesses, for export, or sale to domestic consumers. This sector is often divided into light industry and heavy industry. 
This is an example of the secondary (industrial) sector being dependent on the primary sector. The manufacturing sector depends on the primary sector for raw materials. (b) In turn, the primary sector depends on the secondary sector. (d) The industrial sector thrives on the services from the tertiary sector and the existence of the service sector would be meaningless if it had no services to render to the other two sectors. Posted by orthoneity at 8:54 AM. Labels: primary, secondary, sectoral interrelationship, tertiary.
Canada is unusual among developed countries in the importance of its primary sector, with the logging and oil industries being two of Canada's most important. However, in recent years, the number of terminal exchanges have heavily reduced Canada's primary industry, making Canadians rely more on quaternary industry. Primary industry is a larger sector in developing countries; for instance, animal husbandry is more common in Africa than in Japan. Mining in 19th-century South Wales provides a case study of how an economy can come to rely on one form of activity.
This includes agriculture, forestry, fishing and mining. In contrast, the secondary sector produces manufactured goods, and the tertiary sector produces services. The primary sector is usually most important in less-developed countries, and typically less important in industrial countries. Primary industry is a larger sector in developing countries; for instance, animal husbandry is more common in Africa than in Japan. Mining in 19th-century South Wales provides a case study of how an economy can come to rely on one form of activity.
The primary sector includes the production of raw material and basic foods. Activities associated with the primary sector include agriculture (both subsistence and commercial), mining, forestry, farming, grazing, hunting and gathering, fishing, and quarrying. 
Primary, secondary and tertiary sectors. There are three main types of industry in which firms operate. These sectors form a chain of production which provides customers with finished goods or services. Primary production: this involves acquiring raw materials. Tertiary production: this refers to the commercial services that support the production and distribution process, eg insurance, transport, advertising, warehousing and other services such as teaching and health care.