Fitness training for most people comprises a workout of continuous exercise at a constant intensity. This type of training is very effective but, to propel yourself to the next level of fitness, you need to incorporate interval training into your fitness training regimen. During the intense periods of activity, interval training works repetitively on the aerobic and anaerobic systems. 1  The anaerobic system metabolises energy stored in the muscles (glycogen) for the short bursts of activity without needing oxygen.
Interval training can refer to organization of any cardiovascular workout (e.g., cycling, running, rowing, etc.), and is prominent in training routines for many sports. It is a technique particularly employed by runners, but athletes in many disciplines use this type of training. Walk-back sprinting is one example of interval training for runners, in which one sprints a short distance (anywhere from 100 to 800 metres), then walks back to the starting point (the recovery period) to repeat the sprint a certain number of times.
High-intensity interval training (HIIT), also called high-intensity intermittent exercise (HIIE) or sprint interval training (SIT) , is an enhanced form of interval training, an exercise strategy alternating short periods of intense anaerobic exercise with less-intense recovery periods. A type of high-intensity interval training with short recovery periods was used in the 1970s by the athletics coach Peter Coe when setting sessions for his son Sebastian Coe.
Interval training can give significant improvements in fitness – even for trained athletes. (Photo: Colourbox). Shorter and fewer sessions with a higher intensity. That’s the idea behind interval training, which is currently getting a lot of attention from casual exercisers and professional athletes alike. The second study examined how interval training affects a team of second-division soccer players, who train and play matches five times a week. But even though both soccer players and cyclists are used to high-intensity work, we can still improve their performance with intervals.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Interval training is a type of physical training that involves a series of low-to high-intensity exercise workouts interspersed with rest or relief periods. The high-intensity periods are typically at or close to anaerobic exercise, while the recovery periods involve activity of lower intensity. Walk-back sprinting is one example of interval training for runners, in which one sprints a short distance (anywhere from 100 to 800 metres), then walks back to the starting point (the recovery period) to repeat the sprint a certain number of times.
Fast After 50: High Intensity Interval Training and the Aging Athlete. Friday, February 13, 2015 | By Joe Friel 61. Tweet. For athletes who have been in their sports for a long time, as in several decades, performance declines as they move north of fifty years of age. The research tells us that there are two reasons for this. One is that the aerobic capacity (VO2max) declines with age. The answer comes down to two training concepts called dose and density. Dose has to do with how hard a workout is. Density refers to how closely spaced the high-dose workouts are. You can make a H.I.I.T. session high-dose by doing something such as 5 x 4 minutes at zone 5 with 2-minute recoveries.
In those aging athletes who continue to do High-Intensity Interval Training (H.I.I.T.), aerobic capacity drops slowly, at a rate of about half a percent per year, until the mid-seventies when it accelerates. Athletes training primarily with L.S.D. see a decline of about 1 to 1.5 percent per year. The answer comes down to two training concepts called dose and density. Dose has to do with how hard a workout is. Density refers to how closely spaced the high-dose workouts are. You can make a H.I.I.T. session high-dose by doing something such as 5 x 4 minutes at zone 5 with 2-minute recoveries.
There are two basic types of interval training. 1  The Fitness Interval Training technique is recommended for beginners and intermediate exercisers. 2  This training method uses periods of increased intensity that usually last from 2-5 minutes, followed by lower intensity periods of the same duration. During the intense periods of activity, interval training works repetitively on the aerobic and anaerobic systems. 1  The anaerobic system metabolises energy stored in the muscles (glycogen) for the short bursts of activity without needing oxygen.
Interval training describes a method of exercising that alternates short periods of high-intensity activity with periods of lower-intensity activity. It combines two types of exercise; aerobic during the slower intervals and anaerobic during the fast intervals. 
1 The Performance Interval Training technique is more advanced and is recommended for conditioned athletes. 2  This training method uses periods of maximum intensity (85% – 100% heart rate reserve) that usually last from 2-15 minutes, followed by lower intensity periods of the same or shorter duration. During the intense periods of activity, interval training works repetitively on the aerobic and anaerobic systems. 1  The anaerobic system metabolises energy stored in the muscles (glycogen) for the short bursts of activity without needing oxygen.