You might wonder how long it takes a check to clear after you write it, and there's no great answer (it depends on several factors). It usually takes a few days for the checks you write to hit your account, but that timeline is compressing rapidly since the Check 21 law passed.
When you deposit checks through a bank teller, the teller can immediately tell you how long the bank will place a hold on your check deposit. But, while you wait for check funds to clear, each of the banks make an effort to provide at least some access to the check funds.
If your bank has a cutoff time of 2 p.m., and you deposited the money in the ATM at 3 p.m., it's considered deposited on the next business day. A local check deposited in a proprietary ATM can have a partial hold for up to seven business days. A partial hold means that some, but not all, of the money is available.
The first $200 of your total deposits will be available immediately on the business day of the deposit. Deposits of $5,000 or less usually clear within 3 business days. Deposits of more than $5,000 usually take 4 business days to clear.
When checks come from overseas accounts, things can take much longer. Your best bet is to contact your bank, and get a firm answer as to the status of the check, and whether or not you're taking any risk if you spend the money. For more details, see How Long to Wait After Depositing a Check.
To make funds available as quickly as possible, get them deposited: use remote check deposit when available, and deposit checks early in the day to make that day's cut-off time. Your bank will often tell you that your deposits will be held for 5 days or so, but in many cases the funds will come available more quickly.
Banks keep copies of customers’ cleared checks and comply with customers' requests for copies of checks up to seven years after the receipt of the items. This is to give customers sufficient information to identify the items paid through their accounts.
When banks clear checks, the money is taken from a checking account and sent to the check recipient. Depending on your perspective, this process might be painfully slow or a little too fast -- most people are in a hurry for deposits to clear, while hoping for a few extra days if they wrote the check.
Service fees. Most banks charge a steep fee for this service (as of January 2010, Citibank mails you a copy of your check for $5 or $40.30 overnight on Saturday), which is why some personal finance writers still suggest keeping your own copies of checks if you get them back with your bank statements.