Paradoxically, then, even though rents may be lower in the controlled sector, they rise greatly for uncontrolled units and may be higher for rental housing as a whole. As in the case of other price ceilings, rent control causes shortages, diminution in the quality of the product, and queues. But rent control differs from other such schemes. With price controls on gasoline, the waiting lines worked on a first-come-first-served basis. 
Rent control is a price ceiling on rent. When soldiers returned from World War II and started families (which increased demand for apartments), but stopped receiving military pay, many could not deal with the jumping rent. A price ceiling is a government-imposed price control or limit on how high a price is charged for a product. Governments intend price ceilings to protect consumers from conditions that could make necessary commodities unattainable
For example: Let's consider the house-rent market. Here in the given graph, a price of $9000 has been determined as the equilibrium price with the quantity at 30 homes. Now, the government determines a price ceiling of $6000. At this rate there is a shortage (demand for 40 houses, but supply is for only 20 houses). In the long run, the extra 20 people will try to get a house on rent, which will eventually give rise to black market and higher rents. A price ceiling is a government-imposed price control or limit on how high a price is charged for a product. Governments intend price ceilings to protect consumers from conditions that could make necessary commodities unattainable
Next Video. Price Floors: The Minimum Wage. Rent controls are a type of price ceiling. We’ll use our diagram to show how rent controls create shortages by reducing the supply of apartments available on the. Rent controls are a type of price ceiling. We’ll use our diagram to show how rent controls create shortages by reducing the supply of apartments available on the market. Rent controls also result in reduced product quality, since they reduce the returns to landlords from renting apartments
In the long run, even successful buyers of the product may be hurt by the price ceiling because of deterioration in the quality of the product, as often occurs under rent control. Using the graph shown, analyze the effect a $300 price ceiling would have on the market for ten-speed bicycles. ANSWER: For this example, a $300 price ceiling would cause a shortage of 4,000 bicycles. Since the equilibrium price in the market is $500, this would be a binding price ceiling. More than one reason may exist for policymakers to impose a price ceiling in a market. Often this is done in an attempt to increase equity.
Rent ceilings are usually set by law and limit how high the rent can go in a specified area. However, as a result of this regulation, the quantity of available housing is often decreased because landlords are not willing to rent out their property for a low price. Next Up. 
Drawing a price floor is simple. Simply draw a straight, horizontal line at the price floor level. This graph shows a price floor at $3.00. You'll notice that the price floor is above the equilibrium price, which is $2.00 in this example. A few crazy things start to happen when a price floor is set
A price ceiling occurs when the government puts a legal limit on how high the price of a product can be. In order for a price ceiling to be effective, it must be set below the natural market equilibrium. When a price ceiling is set, a shortage occurs. For the price that the ceiling is set at, there is more demand than there is at the equilibrium price. There is also less supply than there is at the equilibrium price, thus there is more quantity demanded than quantity supplied. An inefficiency occurs since at the price ceiling quantity supplied the marginal benefit exceeds the marginal cost. This inefficiency is equal to the deadweight welfare loss. Recent increases in the price of gas have left many individuals asking for a price ceiling on gas. You now see why this is a bad idea.