There’s no single Mediterranean diet plan, but in general, you'd be eating lots of fruits and vegetables, beans and nuts, healthy grains, fish, olive oil, small amounts of meat and dairy, and red wine. This lifestyle also encourages daily exercise, sharing meals with others, and enjoying it all. You can easily grill or broil many Mediterranean diet foods. Snacks can be quick and easy, too: Grab a clementine or a handful of nuts, or dip whole wheat pita chips into hummus. Packaged foods or meals: None.The diet emphasizes fresh foods.
The Mediterranean diet allows plenty of variety and experimentation. Cooking and shopping: Simplify by planning your meals in advance; keeping pantry staples like olive oil, canned tomatoes, whole grains, pasta, and tuna on hand; and shopping for fresh produce and seafood a few times a week. You can easily grill or broil many Mediterranean diet foods. Snacks can be quick and easy, too: Grab a clementine or a handful of nuts, or dip whole wheat pita chips into hummus. Packaged foods or meals: None.The diet emphasizes fresh foods.
It features foods eaten in Greece, Spain, southern Italy and France, and other countries that border the Mediterranean Sea. The Mediterranean diet emphasizes eating foods like fish, fruits, vegetables, beans, high-fiber breads and whole grains, nuts, and olive oil. Meat, cheese, and sweets are very limited. The recommended foods are rich with monounsaturated fats, fiber, and omega-3 fatty acids. 
Vegetables should be consumed in large amounts when following the Mediterranean diet. Featured foods include artichokes, eggplant, celery, broccoli, onions, peas, peppers, sweet potatoes, lettuce, mushrooms, celery and tomatoes. In place of sweets, fruits are eaten for desserts. It is a heart-healthy way to eat with foods low in saturated fat and sugar. The Mediterranean diet features mostly fresh foods that have gone through minimal processing; it also involves using herbs and spices for seasoning instead of salt.
For food of the areas around the Mediterranean Sea, see Mediterranean cuisine. The Mediterranean diet is a modern nutritional recommendation originally inspired by the traditional dietary patterns of Greece, Southern Italy, and Spain.
Overview. The Mediterranean diet is an eating plan based on the way that people in countries bordering the Mediterranean Sea eat. It is a heart-healthy way to eat with foods low in saturated fat and sugar. The Mediterranean diet features mostly fresh foods that have gone through minimal processing; it also involves using herbs and spices for seasoning instead of salt.
9 healthy foods you should try from the Mediterranean Diet. Key ingredients of Mediterranean cuisine include olive oil, fresh fruits and vegetables, protein-rich legumes, fish and whole grains with moderate amounts of wine and red meat. If you’re trying to eat foods that are better for your heart, start with these nine healthy ingredients of Mediterranean cooking. Download a Free Mediterranean Diet Cookbook! Next: 1. Broccoli Rabe 1  ». 1. 2  2. 3  3. 4  4. 5  5. 6  6.
1 Most people will do well on a Mediterranean-type diet, combining some carbohydrates, protein and fat at each meal. 2  Salt your food liberally with sea salt. 3  Stress handling glands need plenty of salt for normal function. 4  Research has proven that eating salt does not cause high blood pressure or heart disease. 1 Minimize fruits and fruit juices. 2  Most people will do well on a Mediterranean-type diet, combining some carbohydrates, protein and fat at each meal. 3  Salt your food liberally with sea salt. 4
Mediterranean Diet – Food Guide. People who live in the area around the Mediterranean Sea have been found to have a lower risk of heart disease. Research studies show that when people in other parts of the world eat a diet similar to that eaten in Mediterranean countries, they reduce their risk of heart disease. 
Key components of the Mediterranean diet. The Mediterranean diet emphasizes: 1  Eating primarily plant-based foods, such as fruits and vegetables, whole grains, legumes and nuts. 2  Replacing butter with healthy fats, such as olive oil. 3  Using herbs and spices instead of salt to flavor foods. 4  Limiting red meat to no more than a few times a month. 