Sacrotuberous ligament. The sacrotuberous ligament (great or posterior sacrosciatic ligament) is situated at the lower and back part of the pelvis. It is flat, and triangular in form; narrower in the middle than at the ends. The membranous falciform process of the sacrotuberous ligament was found to be absent in 13% of cadavers. When present, it extends toward the ischioanal fossa, traveling along the ischial ramus and fusing with the obturator fascia. The sacrotuberous ligament contains the coccygeal branch of the inferior gluteal artery.
The lesser sciatic foramen is an opening (foramen) between the pelvis and the back of the thigh. The foramen is formed by the sacrotuberous ligament which runs between the sacrum and the ischial tuberosity and the sacrospinous ligament which runs between the sacrum and the ischial spine. The lesser sciatic foramen has the following boundaries: 1  Anterior: the tuberosity of the ischium. 2  Superior: the spine of the ischium and sacrospinous ligament. 3  Posterior: the sacrotuber
Further, some ligaments prevent movement in certain directions. Three of the more important ligaments in the spine are the Ligamentum Flavum, Anterior Longitudinal Ligament and the Posterior Longitudinal Ligament. 1  The Ligamentum Flavum forms a cover over the dura mater: a layer of tissue that protects the spinal cord. Ligaments are fibrous bands or sheets of connective tissue linking two or more bones, cartilages, or structures together. One or more ligaments provide stability to a joint during rest and movement. Excessive movements such as hyper–extension or hyper–flexion, may be restricted by ligaments.
Ligaments of the Back of the Cervical and Upper Thoracic Spine 1. Supraspinous Ligament (flexion) 2. Ligamentum Nuchae (fibrous membrane). Ligaments are fibrous bands or sheets of connective tissue linking two or more bones, cartilages, or structures together. One or more ligaments provide stability to a joint during rest and movement. Excessive movements such as hyper–extension or hyper–flexion, may be restricted by ligaments.
The lower border of the ligament was found to be directly continuous with the tendon of origin of the long head of the biceps femoris in approximately 50% of subjects. The biceps femoris could, therefore, act to stabilise the sacroiliac joint via the sacrotuberous ligament. If the pudendal nerve becomes entrapped between this ligament and the sacrospinous ligament causing perineal pain, the sacrotuberous ligament is surgically severed to relieve the pain. The membranous falciform process of the sacrotuberous ligament was found to be absent in 13% of cadavers. When present, it extends toward the ischioanal fossa, traveling along the ischial ramus and fusing with the obturator fascia. The sacrotuberous ligament contains the coccygeal branch of the inferior gluteal artery.
• Sciatic pain (both axial and appendicular), including piriformis syndrome, since the sciatic nerve and piriformis are close neighbors. • Peroneal pain and numbness, as the pudendal or cutaneous nerves can become entrapped within the sacrotuberous ligament, or between it and the sacrospinous ligaments. • Painful sitting, hamstring tendinitis, or ischial bursitis. • Sacroiliac joint hypermobility, hypomobility, and pain. When one sacrotuberous ligament is tighter than the other, it can be associated with sacral rotation, side bending, or fixation. • Coccyx (tailbone) injuries and pain, since the sacrotuberous ligament attaches to and stabilizes the coccyx.
While the sacrotuberous ligaments aren’t involved in all back pain, a very large portion of low-back pain cases stem from issues related to these important ligaments, including: • Sacroiliac joint hypermobility, hypomobility, and pain. When one sacrotuberous ligament is tighter than the other, it can be associated with sacral rotation, side bending, or fixation. • Coccyx (tailbone) injuries and pain, since the sacrotuberous ligament attaches to and stabilizes the coccyx.
The sacrotuberous ligament (great or posterior sacrosciatic ligament) is situated at the lower and back part of the pelvis. It is flat, and triangular in form; narrower in the middle than at the ends. The lower border of the ligament was found to be directly continuous with the tendon of origin of the long head of the Biceps femoris in approximately 50% of subjects. Biceps femoris could therefore act to stabilise the sacroiliac joint via the sacrotuberous ligament.
The pudendal nerve comes down from sacral nerve roots 2,3, and 4, runs underneath the piriformis muscle, goes between the (SS)sacrospinous and (ST)sacrotuberous ligaments at the ischial spine, travels through alcock's canal between the obturator internus and levator ani muscles, and divides into 3 branches. Note how the nerve travels under the sacrospinous ligament near the ischial spine and then branches out. This is a great job of showing the three dimensional route of the nerve. Note the three branches of the pudendal nerve and how they serve different areas. Many male sufferers have severe pain in these areas.
The sacrotuberous ligament is attached by its broad base to the posterior superior iliac spine, the posterior sacroiliac ligaments (with which it is partly blended), to the lower transverse sacral tubercles and the lateral margins of the lower sacrum and upper coccyx. The lower border of the ligament was found to be directly continuous with the tendon of origin of the long head of the Biceps femoris in approximately 50% of subjects. Biceps femoris could therefore act to stabilise the sacroiliac joint via the sacrotuberous ligament.