Significance of Ugadi. According to the Gregorian calendar, the whole world may celebrate New Year on 31st December - 1st January, but according to the lunisolar Hindu calendar, the New Year falls in the month of March or April.
The festival of Ugadi is celebrated to acknowledge that very day on which Lord Brahma started with the task. It is not only a New Year according to the Hindu calendar, but also sets the new astronomical cycle into motion. The celebrations and prayers that follow fill people's hearts with joy and contentment. According to the Gregorian calendar, the whole world may celebrate New Year on 31st December - 1st January, but according to the lunisolar Hindu calendar, the New Year falls in the month of March or April.
Posted by: Sanchita Chowdhury. Ugadi is the beginning of a new year for the people of Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and other parts of South India. A new year is a new beginning for a lot of things. People start their new business or any new investment or buy new property on this day because it is considered auspicious
The word ugadi can be explained as; ' Yuga ' is the word for 'epoch' or 'era', and 'ādi' stands for 'the beginning' in Sanskrit. Yugadi specifically refers to the start of the age we are living in now, Kali Yuga. Kali Yuga started the moment when Lord Krishna left the world. Thus, the year 2000 CE corresponds to the year 1922 of the Salivahana Era. In the terminology used by this lunar calendar (also each year is identified as per Indian Calendar) , Yugadi falls on  Chaitra Shudhdha Paadyami  or the first day of the bright half of the Indian month of Chaitra.
The Ugadi festival not only celebrates the new year, but it also celebrates the start of spring (What is the Meaning of Ugadi (Telugu New Year)). The day of Ugadi is the first time there is a new moon since the spring equinox (Perl). At the time of Ugadi, plants are just starting to grow and everything is beautiful. It puts a festive mood in the air. Ugadi is also the start of the hot season, which coincides with summer holidays for students (Perl).
Thus there is a Telugu New Year's Day, a Tamil New Year's Day, and a New Year's distinct from these in the almanac of North India. According to Chandramana, Ugadi is celebrated on the bright fortnight ('Shukla Paksha') of the first month ('Chaitra Masa') in the first season of the year i.e. Spring ('Vasanta-Ritu'). As all these important elements are present, this day has special significance marking the commencement of a New Year. 
Ugadi literally means beginning of an era (Perl). The name comes from two Sanskrit words yuga-which means era, and aadi-which means beginning, so Ugadi is the South Indian Hindu New Year (Perl). It is believed by many Hindus, that Brahma, the Hindu god of creation, created the universe on this day (Perl). The day of Ugadi is the first time there is a new moon since the spring equinox (Perl). At the time of Ugadi, plants are just starting to grow and everything is beautiful. It puts a festive mood in the air. Ugadi is also the start of the hot season, which coincides with summer holidays for students (Perl).
The Saka calendar begins with the month of Chaitra (March–April) and Ugadi marks the first day of the new year. Chaitra is the first month in Panchanga which is the Indian calendar. Thus, the year 2000 CE corresponds to the year 1922 of the Salivahana Era. In the terminology used by this lunar calendar (also each year is identified as per Indian Calendar) , Yugadi falls on  Chaitra Shudhdha Paadyami  or the first day of the bright half of the Indian month of Chaitra.
The name Yugadi or Ugadi is derived from the Sanskrit words yuga (age) and ādi (beginning): the beginning of a new age. It falls on a different day every year because the Hindu calendar is a lunisolar calendar. Thus, the year 2000 CE corresponds to the year 1922 of the Salivahana Era. In the terminology used by this lunar calendar (also each year is identified as per Indian Calendar) , Yugadi falls on  Chaitra Shudhdha Paadyami  or the first day of the bright half of the Indian month of Chaitra.
Where: Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka. The festival of Ugadi heralds the start of a New Year in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. In both states the festival is locally referred to as Telugu Panchang and Kannada Panchang, respectively. Ugadi comes from two words, 'Yuga' meaning 'era', and 'aadi' means 'the beginning’. People of Maharashtra also observe the same day as ‘ Gudi Padwa ’. Ugadi is believed to be the day when Brahma-the Creator, in the Hindu Trinity-formed the universe.