Depending on the temperature of the oven and the size of the cod, it should take about fifteen minutes to bake code. Instead of relying on timing, you should learn how to judge when your fish is done. Cod, like most fish, can be checked for doneness by using a fork or knife to gently prod the fish. 
1 Bake cod in the preheated oven for 10 minutes. 2  Remove from oven; top with lemon juice, wine, and cracker mixture. 3  Place back in oven and bake until fish is opaque and flakes easily with a fork, about 10 more minutes. 4  Garnish baked cod with parsley and green onion. 5  Serve with lemon wedges. 1 Place remaining 2 tablespoons butter in a 7x11-inch baking dish. 2  Melt in the preheated oven, 1 to 3 minutes. 3  Remove dish from oven. 4  Coat both sides of cod in melted butter in the baking dish. 5  Bake cod in the preheated oven for 10 minutes. 6  Remove from oven; top with lemon juice, wine, and cracker mixture.
4. Cook for 15 to 20 minutes. Place the cod fillets in the oven and cook until the fish begins to brown and can be flaked easily with a fork. 1  If using frozen fish fillets instead of fresh or thawed, add another 5 to 10 minutes to the overall cook time. 3. Cook the cod until done. Add the seasoned cod fillets to the melted butter in the skillet and cook 4 to 5 minutes per side or until the fish turns opaque and flakes easily with a fork. 1  If using frozen fish, cook for 6 to 9 minutes per side. 2  Turn the fish using a spatula
Directions. 1  Preheat oven to 400°F Line your pan with aluminum foil and lightly brush with olive oil, or use a bit of cooking spray. 2  Combine parsley, garlic, lemon zest, and coarse salt on the cutting board. 3  Finely chop, then combine with the breadcrumbs in a shallow plate. 1 Brush top of each fillet with olive oil. 2  Press fillet into the crumb mixture. 3  Place fillets in baking dish, crust-side up. 4  Bake until firm, about 12-15 minutes, depending on the thickness of the fish. 5  Serve with lemon wedges.
1 Preheat oven to 400°F Line your pan with aluminum foil and lightly brush with olive oil, or use a bit of cooking spray. 2  Combine parsley, garlic, lemon zest, and coarse salt on the cutting board. 3  Finely chop, then combine with the breadcrumbs in a shallow plate. 4  Brush top of each fillet with olive oil. 1 Brush top of each fillet with olive oil. 2  Press fillet into the crumb mixture. 3  Place fillets in baking dish, crust-side up. 4  Bake until firm, about 12-15 minutes, depending on the thickness of the fish. 5  Serve with lemon wedges.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Drizzle bottom of baking dish with 1/2 tbsp. of olive oil. Rub one cod fillet with 1/2 tbsp. of olive oil, minced garlic, lemon zest and salt and pepper, to taste. Place cod in oiled baking dish and bake for 12 to 15 minutes, or until opaque.
Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Place bread crumbs in a shallow dish. Pile parsley, garlic, lemon zest, and a little coarse salt on the cutting board. Finely chop the lemon-garlic mixture, then combine with plain bread crumbs. Brush the top of each fillet with olive oil and dip in to the bread crumb herb mixture. Brush a little bit of olive oil in the bottom of a baking pan then place fillet in the pan, crust side up. Roast fillets in oven until firm to the touch, about 12 to 15 minutes. 
1 Remove dish from oven. 2  Coat both sides of cod in melted butter in the baking dish. 3  Bake cod in the preheated oven for 10 minutes. 4  Remove from oven; top with lemon juice, wine, and cracker mixture. 5  Place back in oven and bake until fish is opaque and flakes easily with a fork, about 10 more minutes. 1 Place remaining 2 tablespoons butter in a 7x11-inch baking dish. 2  Melt in the preheated oven, 1 to 3 minutes. 3  Remove dish from oven. 4  Coat both sides of cod in melted butter in the baking dish. 5  Bake cod in the preheated oven for 10 minutes. 6  Remove from oven; top with lemon juice, wine, and cracker mixture.