The Smog Check Program divides the State into three areas determined by the air quality in the designated area. While the OBD II focused inspection is required statewide for most 2000 model-year and newer vehicles, 1976-1999 model-year vehicles may receive a different inspection, depending on program area. 
Modern smog, as found for example in Los Angeles, is a type of air pollution derived from vehicular emission from internal combustion engines and industrial fumes that react in the atmosphere with sunlight to form secondary pollutants that also combine with the primary emissions to form photochemical smog. The word smog was coined in the early 20th century as a portmanteau of the words smoke and fog to refer to smoky fog.
A Smog Check is not required for electric, diesel powered manufactured before 1998 or weighing over 14,000 lbs, trailers, motorcycles, or gasoline powered vehicles 1975 or older. In April 2015, hybrid vehicles became subject to smog check requirements. If the vehicle fails the smog check, the owner will be required to complete all necessary repairs and pass a smog check retest in order to complete the registration. If the costs of repairing the vehicle outweigh its value, the state may buy it and have it scrapped.
In California, vehicles are required to be smog checked every 2 years. Keep reading below for information about smog inspections in California, including forms and fees you'll need to provide. Smog inspections consist of a visual test and a machine test. 1  During the visual test, the inspector will check for any blue or black smoke emitting from the tailpipe. 2  As long as there is no blue or black exhaust, the vehicle passes this part of the exam.
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. A smog check is a test done on the exhaust system of a motor vehicle to determine how many pollutants, and of which type, the vehicle is emitting. It also includes an assessment of other parts of the vehicle to make sure that they are in working order, especially those parts which pertain to emissions control. 1 A smog check is part of a state's vehicle inspection that tests the types and amounts of gases released in the exhaust of a car or truck. 2  Some measures have been taken around the world to reduce smog
The California Smog Check Program requires vehicles that were manufactured in 1976 or later to participate in the biennial (every two years) smog check program in participating counties. If the vehicle fails the smog check, the owner will be required to complete all necessary repairs and pass a smog check retest in order to complete the registration. If the costs of repairing the vehicle outweigh its value, the state may buy it and have it scrapped.
Smog Information. Currently, smog inspections are required for all vehicles except diesel powered vehicles 1997 year model and older or with a Gross Vehicle Weight (GVWR) of more than 14,000 lbs, electric, natural gas powered vehicles over 14,000 lbs, motorcycles, trailers, or gasoline powered vehicles 1975 and older. NOTE: Smog certifications are not required for transfers that occur for a gasoline powered motor vehicle that is four or less model years old. (Determine the oldest-qualifying year model by subtracting three from the current year) the four or less model years old rule does not apply to diesel powered vehicles.
Smog is a type of air pollutant. The word smog was coined in the early 20th century as a portmanteau of the words smoke and fog to refer to smoky fog. The word was then intended to refer to what was sometimes known as pea soup fog, a familiar and serious problem in London from the 19th century to the mid 20th century
The term smog was first used in London during the early 1900's to describe the combination of smoke and fog. What we typically call smog today is a mixture of pollutants but is primarily made up of ground-level ozone. Ozone can be beneficial or harmful depending on its location. Smog is a visible example of air pollution. You can look at the horizon during the day to see how much haze there is in the air. In addition, most cities measure the concentrations of pollutants in the air and report the results to the public.