Side Effects and Precautions. The main constituent of licorice root tea is glycyrrhiza, which has been shown to cause edema, loss of potassium, high blood pressure and other serious side effects when used for an extended time. Licorice root tea is a sweet and soothing herbal remedy for dry irritated mucous membranes, coughs, sore throat and upset tummy. Photo Credit Goodshoot/Goodshoot/Getty Images. Licorice root – also known as Glycyrrhiza glabra – is a naturally sweet and moistening herb which has numerous benefits.
This article will look at licorice root benefits when used as licorice tea or as a licorice extract. It will also look at the licorice side effects in addition to potential problems with licorice and high blood pressure. 
Licorice also has known side effects with long-term use, and you should be aware of its side effects. Useful to treat throat irritations, upper respiratory tract infections, digestive complaints, coughs and to strengthen the liver and adrenals, when used correctly, licorice root tea can be a tremendous herbal ally. Licorice root tea is a sweet and soothing herbal remedy for dry irritated mucous membranes, coughs, sore throat and upset tummy. Photo Credit Goodshoot/Goodshoot/Getty Images. Licorice root – also known as Glycyrrhiza glabra – is a naturally sweet and moistening herb which has numerous benefits.
Side Effects. Some licorice contains a substance called glycyrrhizin. If your tea contains glycyrrhizin, you could experience serious side effects, according to the UMMC, including hormonal problems, headaches, fatigue, high blood pressure, water retention and heart attacks. Higher doses of licorice tend to pose the most glycyrrhizin-related risks. Standard dosage for licorice tea, according to the University of Maryland Medical Center, is 1 to 5 grams of dried licorice root steeped in boiling water, consumed three times daily. Prepared licorice teas and extract, which you can add to hot water, are also available
Benefits and Side Effects of Licorice Root Tea. Licorice root tea is a sweet and soothing herbal remedy for dry irritated mucous membranes, coughs, sore throat and upset tummy. Photo Credit Goodshoot/Goodshoot/Getty Images. Licorice root – also known as Glycyrrhiza glabra – is a naturally sweet and moistening herb which has numerous benefits.
Licorice that has the active ingredient of glycyrrhiza can have serious side effects. Another type of licorice, called DGL or deglycyrrhizinated licorice, doesn't seem to have the same side effects and is sometimes used to treat peptic ulcers, canker sores, and reflux (GERD). Licorice with glycyrrhizin may cause serious side effects. Too much glycyrrhizin causes a condition called pseudoaldosteronism, which can cause a person to become overly sensitive to a hormone in the adrenal cortex. This condition can lead to headaches, fatigue, high blood pressure, and even heart attacks
Other side effects of licorice use include tiredness, absence of a menstrual period in women, headache, water and sodium retention, and decreased sexual interest and function in men. People who chew tobacco flavored with licorice might develop high blood pressure and other serious side effects. Don’t use licorice if you are pregnant or breast-feeding. High blood pressure: Licorice can raise blood pressure. Don’t consume large amounts of it if you have high blood pressure. Heart disease: Licorice can cause the body to store water, and this can make congestive heart failure worse.
Licorice is a plant. You are probably most familiar with it as a flavoring in foods, beverages, and tobacco. The root is used to make medicine. Licorice is used for various digestive system complaints including stomach ulcers, heartburn, colic, and ongoing inflammation of the lining of the stomach (chronic gastritis). Don’t use licorice if you are pregnant or breast-feeding. High blood pressure: Licorice can raise blood pressure. Don’t consume large amounts of it if you have high blood pressure. Heart disease: Licorice can cause the body to store water, and this can make congestive heart failure worse.