With everyone getting presents for the holidays there may be some beginners that are just getting in to the Pandora charm bracelet line. I know it can be overwhelming — there are hundreds of charms to choose from of various types, along with a ton of accessories that you can get as well. For any newcomers to the hobby, here’s a quick rundown on some of the terms you will hear online and in the store, and some tips on what to do when you’re starting out. 
Beads. A bead is a small, decorative object that is formed in a variety of shapes and sizes of a material such as stone, bone, shell, glass, plastic, wood or pearl and that a small hole is drilled for threading or stringing. Beads range in size from under 1 millimetre (0.039 in) to over 1 centimetre (0.39 in) in diameter. A pair of beads made from Nassarius sea snail shells, approximately 100,000 years old, are thought to be the earliest known examples of jewellery /jewelry. Beadwork is the art or craft of making things with beads. Beads can be woven together with specialized thread, strung onto thread or soft, flexible wire, or adhered to a surface (e.g. fabric, clay)
Beads may be divided into several types of overlapping categories based on different criteria such as the materials from which they are made, the process used in their manufacturing, the place or period of origin, the patterns on their surface, or their general shape. Beads range in size from under 1 millimetre (0.039 in) to over 1 centimetre (0.39 in) in diameter. A pair of beads made from Nassarius sea snail shells, approximately 100,000 years old, are thought to be the earliest known examples of jewellery /jewelry. Beadwork is the art or craft of making things with beads.
For very young children around three years old, there're large beads for sale with a 10mm diameter called Biggie Beads (Perler), Maxi Beads (Hama), or Jumbo Beads (Nabbi). Hama also manufactures a type of very small, 2.5mm beads branded as Mini Beads, but they are far less popular than the medium-sized ones. First of all, find a flat surface to place beads on a pegboard. Once you're happy with the design, preheat a dry household iron to its medium or high setting. Do not add water to your iron, otherwise the steam will ruin the beads! Cover the beads with a sheet of ironing paper.
Bead colors. Perler beads come in solid colors, translucent colors, glitters, and glow-in-the-dark variants. For beginners, we recommend that you buy a small bag of sorted beads(e.g. Perler Tray Of 4000 Beads With Idea Book) to get a feel for the craft before stocking up on more colors. First of all, find a flat surface to place beads on a pegboard. Once you're happy with the design, preheat a dry household iron to its medium or high setting. Do not add water to your iron, otherwise the steam will ruin the beads! Cover the beads with a sheet of ironing paper.
Begin by gathering your beads and planning out your design. In this tutorial, we'll use the same type and size of beads for the entire strand, taking the guesswork out of design. When you use a variety of different types, colors, or sizes of beads, it's a good idea to use a bead board to plan out your pattern. By rearranging beads on the board, you can audition different color combinations and motifs before you start stringing. You can string just about any type of bead on beading cable: large or small, glass or gemstone, round or shaped.
You’ll obviously need to make sure the bead will fit over the needle. For extra small beads like seed beads, I love Beadalon collapsible eye needles. These needles are flexible so that you can pull a small bead right over the eye of the needle, and the eye will spring right back into place once the bead passes. And most importantly, make sure it’s possible to thread the bead onto the yarn or thread before you get started. I’m totally guilty of planning a project only to find out that I can’t squeeze my thick yarn through such a small bead!
Different lengths and sizes of needles occur just like with beads, and thread. The numbering system for needles is the same as with beads. The number of the needle corresponds with the eye that will fit through the bead. For example you can use a number 11 needle with number 11 beads. There are many different ways to decorate with beads, and with many different types of beads for that matter, but we are focused on applique appliqué, beading which means that we will be talking about the seed. bead
These colorful beads are usually arranged on plastic pegboards to form patterns and then fused together with a clothes iron. They can also be strung into necklaces, woven into keychains, or even assembled into three-dimensional decors. Crafting Perler beads is a fun and inexpensive art form that inspires creativity. First of all, find a flat surface to place beads on a pegboard. Once you're happy with the design, preheat a dry household iron to its medium or high setting. Do not add water to your iron, otherwise the steam will ruin the beads! Cover the beads with a sheet of ironing paper.
Topics: Seed Beads, Fringe. Q. I want to make a seed bead fringe necklace, how does the seed bead stay on the bottom of the fringe, and how do I attach the seed bead onto the chain, and what type of wire or thread do I use to create the fringe. Fringe hangs 10 long by 7 1/2 wide. How is the bottom seed of the fringe secured? Thank you.