The green, gold and red are the colors of the Ethiopian flag and show the loyalty Rastafari feel towards the Ethiopian state in the reign of Haile Selassie. The red, black and green were the colors used to represent Africa by the Marcus Garvey movement. 
What do rasta colors stand for? There are four Rasta colors which are black, red, gold and green.  Black represents Africa, Gold represents world treasures, green  represents the environment and red repres … ents the blood of all the  living things in the environment. 2 people found this useful. Farian Lite. 
The correct order of the Rasta Colors. The correct order of the Rasta Colors is actually Red, then yellow and then green. Here is the explanation, straight from a book on flags. The People who are printing the Lion of Judah flag are printing it upside down…Rasta know this…. As a Rastafari woman the “Rasta Colors” have special and significant meaning for me. When I was young, very young, say 2 and 3 years old, my mother and father were running a reggae music store. Behind the counter hanging up on the wallwere these eye catching Rasta hats, Rasta belts and even sometimes Rasta t-shirts.
What do rasta colors stand for? There are four Rasta colors which are black, red, gold and green.  Black represents Africa, Gold represents world treasures, green  represents the environment and red repres … ents the blood of all the  living things in the environment. 2 people found this useful. Share to: Rasta doctrines concerning the Holy Trinity include stressing the significance of the name Haile Selassie, meaning Power of the Trinity or Might of the Trinity. The Bobo … Shanti trinity, consists of Marcus Garvey as the Holy prophet, King Emmanuel VII as the Holy Priest and Haile Selassie as the Divine King
Yellow represents the wealth of the homeland, Africa, particularly the gold. …and finally the green represents the beauty and the vegetation of the promise land, Ethiopia. So there you have it, colors of significance to the rastafarian movement. The next time you see a ‘true’ rastafarian, look for the colors. 
Rasta Colors. Many people today wear Rasta colors, but a lot of those people are not really Rastafarians. The colors originated from the Ethiopian flag. There is actually a correct order of these colors, which is: red, yellow, green. The order also derives from the original Ethiopian flag. The Green represents the African land. The yellow represents the wealth of Africa, and the red represents the blood of the African people. You'll also sometimes see black. It symbolizes the color of African skin. So while wearing the colors may be fashionable, one should also be aware of what they represent within the Rastafari movement.
When I look at the Rasta Colors all together, it means love, it means strength, it means a “recognition” of who I am as a woman of Rastafari. Jah made me and these colors signify his love for me and my love for him. I will where red Gold and Green for as long as the Most High has me on this planet. As a Rastafari woman the “Rasta Colors” have special and significant meaning for me. When I was young, very young, say 2 and 3 years old, my mother and father were running a reggae music store. Behind the counter hanging up on the wallwere these eye catching Rasta hats, Rasta belts and even sometimes Rasta t-shirts.
The colors of red, yellow, green, and black, also known as 'Rasta colors', are often seen on iconography depicting the movement. This Buzzle post explains the symbolism and meaning of these colors. Advertisement. The Rastafari is an African religion, although its followers insist that it is a way of life. 