A tutor is a teacher you pay to work with your child, either on a one-to-one basis or as part of a small group. Usually the tutor focuses on a particular academic subject, or they may coach your child in a particular exam technique. A tutor often helps a child who is struggling with their studies, or needs a boost to do better at school or do well in an exam (perhaps an entrance exam or a particular subject at GCSE or A-level).
Many work through a tutoring agency. To find an agency in your area, search online. You can also ask your child’s teacher, or other parents, to recommend an agency or a tutor. Tutors have different styles and approaches to working.
Talk to your principal about your wish to tutor. Your principal will be able to suggest students within the school and can also contact other schools to see who needs help with what. Make sure to tell your principal what time works best for you, what you want to help kids with, and how you're going to do it. This gives them an idea of what to look for. 1  Tell your principal what time availability you have and the subjects you're willing to tutor with.
If your child is struggling in reading or math, then tutoring him or her at home may be the answer. When you're tutoring your own child, it can be challenging to separate learning time from family time. The follow tips can help you tutor your child successfully.
The less distractions there are the more focused your child will probably be. Let your child participate in the tutoring session. Having your child explain concepts in his or her own words can help solidify the concept in his or her mind. In both math or reading, don't assume your child understands the material.
For math, teach your child the basic concepts and guide him or her through a problem rather than solving the problem yourself. This will help your child complete the same sort of problem alone in the future. Be sure to maintain a positive attitude and always encourage progress rather than discouraging mistakes.