After ankle fusion surgery, you will be transported to the recovery room where you will be closely observed for one to two hours while the immediate effects of anesthesia wear off. Your ankle will be elevated and immobilized in a splint when you wake up. An incision about 10 to 12 centimeters long is made on the outside part of your foot. Usually a smaller incision, about four to six centimeters, is made on the inside part of your ankle. Whatever cartilage surface remains on the top of your anklebone (talus) and the bottom of your shinbone is removed
I find it interesting that some foot surgery has significantly more disability than a total hip or knee replacement! For instance, a total hip or knee replacement will be ambulatory within the first few days of surgery. A fusion of the foot or ankle will require 8-12 weeks of non-weight bearing. That’s a long time to be on crutches. Pre-op counseling is imperative to be sure that patient’s recognize the degree of disability associated with their surgery.
The time for fusion can vary considerably between different conditions, different operative techniques and different patient related factors. Generally, under the optimum circumstances an ankle should be well on the way to uniting by six weeks and be united by 12-14 weeks. Just as after a fracture, the bone will continue to strengthen beyond this time. It is also possible to fuse the ankle, together with the joint beneath it (the sub-talar joint) by inserting an intramedullary rod through the heel to compress both of these joints. This last technique is not however simply for ankle fusion.
What To Expect After Surgery. The usual recovery period after bunion surgery is 6 weeks to 6 months, depending on the amount of soft tissue and bone affected. Complete healing may take as long as 1 year. 1  When you are showering or bathing, the foot must be kept covered to keep the stitches dry. 2  Stitches are removed after 7 to 21 days. 1 Many activities can be resumed in about 6 to 8 weeks. 2  After some procedures, no weight can be put on the foot for 6 to 8 weeks. 3  Then there are a few more weeks of partial weight-bearing with the foot in a special shoe or boot to keep the bones and soft tissues steady as they heal.
What is rehabilitation like after an ankle fusion or an ankle replacement? The rehab protocols are similar: You will be in a splint/cast for 6+/- weeks; a boot for 6 +/- weeks; and on crutches for 2-3 months. Sometimes with a fusion we let you ambulate a little quicker (it varies from patient to patient). An ankle fusion has been around much longer than the ankle joint replacement; therefore, an ankle fusion is the gold standard. Nonetheless, the technology behind ankle joint replacement has been advancing, resulting in ankle replacements becoming more main stream.
After ankle fusion surgery, you no longer have cartilage in your ankle. Though arthritis can no longer trouble your ankle joint, you may have to worry about preventing arthritis in your other foot joints. With the ankle joint fused, more stress is placed on the bones in your foot. An incision about 10 to 12 centimeters long is made on the outside part of your foot. Usually a smaller incision, about four to six centimeters, is made on the inside part of your ankle. Whatever cartilage surface remains on the top of your anklebone (talus) and the bottom of your shinbone is removed
For four to five days after ankle fusion surgery, you should keep off your feet, elevate your ankle above heart level, and move around the house as little as possible. You should try to rest and avoid too much movement for at least a week. An incision about 10 to 12 centimeters long is made on the outside part of your foot. Usually a smaller incision, about four to six centimeters, is made on the inside part of your ankle. Whatever cartilage surface remains on the top of your anklebone (talus) and the bottom of your shinbone is removed
Fusion surgery is frequently used to treat arthritic joints in the foot and ankle. With fusion surgery, the two sides of the joint are roughened with a burr or small chisel. Next, the two bones to be fused, i.e. the two bones that make up the arthritic joint, are screwed together with one or more metal screws. The foot and ankle are then further immobilized with a cast.