A mixture is a substance made by combining two or more different materials in such a way that no chemical reaction occurs. 
A material can be classified as a heterogeneous mixture, a homogeneous mixture or solution, or a pure substance. If it is a pure substance, then it can be further classified as either a compound or an element. Heterogeneous means that you can see more than one material present. If you can see that a material is heterogeneous, it is classified as a heterogeneous mixture.. Sometimes this is shortened simply to mixture.. For our purposes this is not a good idea just yet.
A mixture of water and a non-dissolved material is a suspension.  Examples of suspensions include muddy water, sand in water, chalk  in water, oil and water, and other mixtu … res such as this. Answered. 
In the center column, state whether the material is a pure substance or a mixture. If the material is a pure substance, further classify it as either an element or compound in the right column. Similarly, if the material is a mixture, further classify it as homogeneous or heterogeneous in the right column. Write the entire word in each space to earn full credit.
Mixtures. A mixture is made from different substances that are not chemically joined. For example powdered iron and powdered sulphur mixed together makes a mixture of iron and sulphur. They can be separated from each other without a chemical reaction, in the way that different coloured sweets can be picked out from a mixed packet and put into separate piles.
To earn full credit, you must write the full word. o In the center column, state whether the material is a pure substance or a mixture. o In the right column: • If the material is a pure substance, further classify it as either an element or compound. 
A mixture is made of little bits of each substance mixed together. A mixture can be separated by physical methods, a compound can not. For example A mixture of iron filings and sulfur can be separated by using a magnet to attract the iron. Iron is a magnetic material but sulfur is not. If a mixture of iron filings and sulfur is heated the iron reacts with the sulfur and the compound iron sulfide is formed. The compound iron sulfide is not a magnetic material and cannot be separated by using a magne
A homogeneous mixture is a type of mixture in which the composition is uniform and every part of the solution has the same properties. A heterogeneous mixture is a type of mixture in which the components can be seen, as there are two or more phases present. One example of a mixture is air. Air is a homogeneous mixture of the gaseous substances nitrogen, oxygen, and smaller amounts of other substances. Salt, sugar, and many other substances dissolve in water to form homogeneous mixtures. A homogeneous mixture in which there is both a solute and solvent present is also a solution
Mixture:   In chemistry, a mixture is a substance made by combining two or more different materials without a chemical reaction occurring (the objects do not bond tog … ether). 
In the center column, state whether the material is a pure substance or a mixture. If the material is a pure substance, further classify it as either an element or compound in the right column. Similarly, if the material is a mixture, further classify it as homogeneous or heterogeneous in the right column. Write the entire word in each space to earn full credit.