Dietary Role. High-protein and high-carb foods are valuable for endurance athletes and people looking to gain weight, but can fit into any diet plan. Carbohydrates are the body’s primary source of energy. Protein is a component in every cell in the body and helps with muscle development and function. For example, 1 cup of black beans with 1/2 cup brown rice makes a meal with 18 grams of protein and 64 grams of carbohydrates. Cheese pizza is another complete food that offers 12 grams of protein and 34 grams of carbohydrates per slice from a 14-inch pie.
Many carbohydrates also supply fiber. Fiber is a type of complex carbohydrate found in foods that come from plants—fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds, beans, and whole grains. Eating food with fiber can prevent stomach or intestinal problems, such as constipation. It might also help lower cholesterol and blood sugar.
There are two types of carbohydrates: simple and complex. 1  Simple carbohydrates are found in fruits, vegetables, and milk products, as well as in sweeteners like sugar, honey, and syrup and foods like candy, soft drinks, and frosting or icing. Fiber is a type of complex carbohydrate found in foods that come from plants—fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds, beans, and whole grains. Eating food with fiber can prevent stomach or intestinal problems, such as constipation. It might also help lower cholesterol and blood sugar.
Significance. Meats, poultry and fish are high in protein, but most contain no carbohydrates. High-carbohydrate foods such as baked goods, starchy vegetables, bread, fruits, grains and pasta tend to be low in protein. A limited number of foods feature both high carbohydrates and high protein. For example, 1 cup of black beans with 1/2 cup brown rice makes a meal with 18 grams of protein and 64 grams of carbohydrates. Cheese pizza is another complete food that offers 12 grams of protein and 34 grams of carbohydrates per slice from a 14-inch pie.
Eggs are rich in both protein and fat. Photo Credit Dorling Kindersley/Dorling Kindersley RF/Getty Images. Your body needs both protein and lipids -- or fats -- for proper function, and many foods are rich in both of these nutrients. Carbs and protein each contain 4 calories per gram, while fat contains 9 calories per gram. Therefore, you should get 225 to 325 grams of carbs, 50 to 175 grams of protein and 44 to 78 grams of fat each day.
Protein isn't the only thing you need to gain muscle mass. Don't be afraid of the carbs. But before you reach for a loaf of bread, here are seven nutrient-packed foods that give you the dose of protein and carbs that you need to get big. And they're all readily accessible at your local supermarket. 
Fats, Carbohydrates, Protein. Protein helps the body grow, builds muscle and give us energy. Protein-rich foods include meats, eggs, avocado, nuts and beans. Carbohydrates are sugars that the body uses for energy. Simple carbohydrates, also called simple sugars, provide the body with quick energy. They are found in fruit, milk and white sugar. Complex carbohydrates, known as fiber and starch, are broken down in the body slower than simple carbohydrates. They are found in vegetables, bread, rice, oatmeal, whole grains and peas. Fat: Your body needs fat to grow and to process vitamins.