This is because, people are always in an attempt to create their home a place of haven where they can relax and rejuvenate after a hectic day of work. View in gallery. A light and airy living room is not an impossible task that’s hard to achieve. It can be achieved easily. All it requires is to think out of the box and employ your creativity. 
This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
Definition of AIRY DISK. : the bright central spot in the system of diffraction rings formed by an optical system with light from a point source (as a star). ADVERTISEMENT. after George Biddell Airy †1892 English mathematician and astronomer. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. To access the complete Unabridged Dictionary, with an additional 300,000 words that aren't in our free dictionary, start a free trial.
air′i·ly adv. air′i·ness n. Synonyms: airy, filmy, gauzy, gossamer, sheer 2. These adjectives mean so light and insubstantial as to resemble air or a thin film: airy curtains blowing at the window; the filmy wings of a moth; gauzy clouds in the sky; a gown of gossamer fabric; sheer silk stockings. adj. air·i·er, air·i·est. 1. a. Open to or allowing in air; breezy or drafty: the airy bungalows of the island's top officials (Amitav Ghosh). b.
In optics, the Airy disk (or Airy disc) and Airy pattern are descriptions of the best focused spot of light that a perfect lens with a circular aperture can make, limited by the diffraction of light. The Airy disk is of importance in physics, optics, and astronomy. The diffraction pattern resulting from a uniformly-illuminated circular aperture has a bright region in the center, known as the Airy disk which together with the series of concentric bright rings around is called the Airy pattern. The most important application of this concept is in cameras and telescopes. Owing to diffraction, the smallest point to which a lens or mirror can focus a beam of light is the size of the Airy disk.
: having a lot of open space through which air can move freely. : having a light or careless quality that shows a lack of concern. : very light or delicate. 
General. In 1838, G. B. Airy investigated the simple-looking differential equation: This is quite similar to the differential equation for the hyperbolic sine and hyperbolic cosine functions, which has the general solution. Airy built two partial solutions and for the first equation in the form of a power series. These solutions were named the Airy functions. Much later, H. Jeffreys (1928–1942) investigated these functions more deeply