The male parts of the flower are called the stamens and are made up of the anther at the top and the stalk or filament that supports the anther. The female elements are collectively called the pistil. The top of the pistil is called the stigma, which is a sticky surface receptive to pollen. 
Flowers are important in making seeds. Flowers can be made up of different parts, but there are some parts that are basic equipment. The main flower parts are the male part ca … lled the stamen and the female part called the pistil. exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Grace Tyng. Confidence votes 534. The female parts of a flower are called style, ovary, ovule and stigma. All of these parts together are called the pistil.
The female part of a flower is called a Pistil, or Carpel, which consists of the Stigma, Style, and Ovary. + 39 others found this useful. Daniel Rawlins. Edit. exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Grace Tyng. Confidence votes 534. The female parts of a flower are called style, ovary, ovule and stigma. All of these parts together are called the pistil.
Flowers are how plants produce seeds to reproduce. In many cases, the flower contains male and female parts, roughly equivalent to the male and female sexes of animals. The male parts of the flower are called the stamens and are made up of the anther at the top and the stalk or filament that supports the anther. The female elements are collectively called the pistil. The top of the pistil is called the stigma, which is a sticky surface receptive to pollen
The female part is the pistil. The pistil usually is located in the center of the flower and is made up of three parts: the stigma, style, and ovary. The stigma is the sticky knob at the top of the pistil. It is attached to the long, tubelike structure called the style. The style leads to the ovary that contains the female egg cells called ovules. The male parts are called stamens and usually surround the pistil. The stamen is made up of two parts: the anther and filament. The anther produces pollen (male reproductive cells). The filament holds the anther up
The female part of a flower is called a Pistil, or Carpel, which consists of the Stigma, Style, and Ovary. + 39 others found this useful. Daniel Rawlins. Edit. Flowers are important in making seeds. Flowers can be made up of different parts, but there are some parts that are basic equipment. The main flower parts are the male part ca … lled the stamen and the female part called the pistil.
What are the male part and the female part of a flower called? The male part is the stamen, which is the pollen producer, and the female is the pistil, the pollen receptor. Flowers are important in making seeds. Flowers can be made up of different parts, but there are some parts that are basic equipment. The main flower parts are the male part ca … lled the stamen and the female part called the pistil.
1 Pistil This is the female part of the flower. 2  It is made up of the stigma, style, and ovary. 3  Each pistil is constructed of one to many rolled leaflike structures. 4  Stigma One of the female parts of the flower. Female Parts. 1  Pistil This is the female part of the flower. 2  Stigma One of the female parts of the flower. 3  Style Another female part of the flower. 4  Ovary The part of the plant, usually at the bottom of the flower, that has the seeds inside and turns into the fruit that we eat. 5  Ovule The part of the ovary that becomes the seeds.