In this electron micrograph of bacteriophages attached to a bacterial cell, the viruses are the size and shape of coliphage T1. To enter a host cell, bacteriophages attach to specific receptors on the surface of bacteria, including lipopolysaccharides, teichoic acids, proteins, or even flagella. Bacteriophages may have a lytic cycle or a lysogenic cycle, and a few viruses are capable of carrying out both. With lytic phages such as the T4 phage, bacterial cells are broken open (lysed) and destroyed after immediate replication of the virion.
Bacteriophages occur abundantly in the biosphere, with different virions, genomes and lifestyles. Phages are classified by the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses (ICTV) according to morphology and nucleic acid. Nineteen families are currently recognized by the ICTV that infect bacteria and archaea. Of these, only two families have RNA genomes and only five families are enveloped. Bacteriophages may have a lytic cycle or a lysogenic cycle, and a few viruses are capable of carrying out both. With lytic phages such as the T4 phage, bacterial cells are broken open (lysed) and destroyed after immediate replication of the virion.
Bacterial viruses are specific to one or a limited number of bacteria; thus, they are named after the bacteria group, strain, or species that they infect. For example, the phages that infect the bacterium Escherichia coli are called coliphages. In order to infect a host cell, the bacteriophage attaches itself to the bacteria’s cell wall, specifically on a receptor found on the bacteria’s surface. Once it becomes tightly bound to the cell, the bacterial virus injects its genetic material (its nucleic acid) into the host cell.
Classification of viruses is defined by host preference, viral morphology, genome type and auxiliary structures such as tails or envelopes. Viral particles outside a host cell (so called virions) are inert entities with a genome surrounded by a protective coat. Viruses that attack bacteria were named ‘bacteriophages'. The term phage originates from Greek phagein, which translates as ‘to eat'. EMBO J 28, 821–829 (2009); published online 8 April 2009 [PMC free article] [PubMed]. Viruses are minuscule infectious particles composed of a protein coat and a nucleic acid core. They exist in a huge variety of forms and infect practically all living creatures: animals, plants, insects and bacteria.
Post. Share. Bacteriophages are viruses that infect bacteria. A bacteriophage can have a protein tail attached to the capsid (protein coat that envelopes the genetic material), which is used to infect the host bacteria. Scientists have long sought to uncover the structure and function of viruses. Genetic recombination occurs between the viral DNA and the bacterial genome as the viral DNA is inserted into the bacterial chromosome. In the lytic life cycle, the virus breaks open or lyses the host cell. This results in the death of the host.
The term is derived from bacteria and the Greek: φαγεῖν (phagein), to devour. Bacteriophages are composed of proteins that encapsulate a DNA or RNA genome, and may have relatively simple or elaborate structures. Their genomes may encode as few as four genes, and as many as hundreds of genes. Bacteriophages may have a lytic cycle or a lysogenic cycle, and a few viruses are capable of carrying out both. With lytic phages such as the T4 phage, bacterial cells are broken open (lysed) and destroyed after immediate replication of the virion.
Used with permission. A bacteriophage is a virus that infects bacteria. Bacteriophages, first discovered around 1915, have played a unique role in viral biology. They are perhaps the best understood viruses, yet at the same time, their structure can be extraordinarily complex
Other viruslike particles called prions are composed primarily of a protein tightly integrated with a small nucleic acid molecule. Viruses are generally classified by the organisms they infect, animals, plants, or bacteria. Since viruses cannot penetrate plant cell walls, virtually all plant viruses are transmitted by insects or other organisms that feed on plants. 