Learning how to express yourself in a healthy way can be a wonderful way to live an authentic, more fulfilling life. Practicing expressing yourself and being true to who you are is essential to becoming strong in believing in yourself, releasing emotions, and creating the life that you want. 
Knowing how to express feelings tactfully therefore is vital if you want to feel close to people and be able to sustain your intimate relationships. Sharing feelings enables you to talk through the situation causing the feelings. That way you and others involved in the situation can figure out what to do about it. Otherwise negative feelings fester, the problem lingers or gets worse, and your relationship suffers.
It is hard to fake emotions and let it contradict what the mind perceives. For example, if you are thinking of a bad situation such as the loss of something or someone, your emotions follow suit. Heavy feelings dominate the emotions in relation to the current state of mind. Not everyone is gifted with the ability to effectively express thoughts and feelings. You could have encountered people who get tongue-tied when asked about their opinions, some are comfortable with silence, and while others struggle to release their inner emotions.
Grief is a natural response to loss. It’s the emotional suffering you feel when something or someone you love is taken away. You may associate grief with the death of a loved one – and this type of loss does often cause the most intense grief. 
Even in the face of tragic loss, many men in our society still feel the need to be self-contained, stoic and to express little or no outward emotion. It is very much in vogue today to encourage men to openly express their feelings, but in practice few men do so. The outward expression of grief is called mourning. All men grieve when someone they love dies, but if they are to heal, they must also mourn. You can help by offering a safe place for your friend to mour
Reach Out to Others for Support. Perhaps the most compassionate thing you can do for yourself at this difficult time is to reach out for help from others. Think of it this way: grieving the loss of a parent may be the hardest work you have ever done. And hard work is less burdensome when others lend a hand. 
The ability to deliver thoughts and feelings towards other people effectively is an important aspect of communicate. However, it seems that verbal expression of ideas and displays of emotions do not come easy to many people. Not everyone is gifted with the ability to effectively express thoughts and feelings. You could have encountered people who get tongue-tied when asked about their opinions, some are comfortable with silence, and while others struggle to release their inner emotions.
Before you can do anything else, you have to recognize and accept that you are going to have feelings and that those feelings are okay. What you are going to have to learn is how those feelings operate in your daily life and how you can deal with/express them more productively. 3. Express your emotions verbally. This can mean finding someone you trust to talk out the situation and the accompanying emotions, this can mean writing things down in a journal, or writing poetry. Or it can mean talking with someone who you feel caused you feel sadness, or anger, or other emotion.
With time and support, things generally do get better. However, it is normal for significant dates, holidays, or other reminders to trigger feelings related to the loss. Taking care of yourself, seeking support, and acknowledging your feelings during these times are ways that can help you cope. The reasons for grief are many, such as the loss of a loved one, the loss of health, or the letting go of a long-held dream. Dealing with a significant loss can be one of the most difficult times in a person's life. Different kinds of loss Feelings of loss are very personal, and only you know what is significant to you. People commonly associate certain losses with strong feelings of grief