Recycling of thermosetting polymers: Their blends and composites 125 Phenol-formaldehyde mouldings are widely used for domestic plugs and switches. Used in electrical industry where high electrical insulation properties are not needed. It is used for making cases, knobs, handles and telephones. Also, used in data processing equipment such as pressure discs, sleeves, bearings, and as friction elements. They are also used as valve shafts in shut-off values. Due to the heat resistance capacity and deformation resistance of the polymers, they are used in soldering and welding equipment.
Click here to find Thermoset Plastics Manufacturers. Thermoset, or thermosetting, plastics are synthetic materials that strengthen during being heated, but cannot be successfully remolded or reheated after their initial heat-forming. This is in contrast to thermoplastics, which soften when heated and harden and strengthen after cooling. 
Once hardened a thermoset resin cannot be reheated and melted to be shaped differently. Thermosetting resin may be contrasted with thermoplastic polymers which are commonly produced in pellets and shaped into their final product form by melting and pressing or injection molding. IUPAC defines a thermosetting resin as a prepolymer in a soft solid or viscous state that changes irreversibly into an infusible, insoluble polymer network by curing. Curing can be induced by the action of heat or suitable radiation, or both.
Polymers polymer: A polymer is a large molecule formed from many identical smaller molecules (monomers). have properties which depend on the chemicals they are made from, and the conditions in which they are made. Vulcanised rubber is a thermoset thermoset: Material that becomes permanently hard after heating. used to make tyres. Its polymer chains are joined together by cross-links, so they cannot slide past each other easily. Page: 1  1. 2  2. 3  3. 4  4. 5  5.
Though thermoset plastics and thermoplastics sound similar, they have very different properties and applications. Understanding the performance differences can help you make better sourcing decisions and improve your product designs. The primary physical difference is that thermoplastics can be remelted back into a liquid, whereas thermoset plastics always remain in a permanent solid state. Think of thermoplastics as butter – butter can be melted and cooled multiple times to form various shapes. Thermoset plastics significantly improve the material’s mechanical properties, providing enhances chemical resistance, heat resistance and structural integrity. Thermoset plastics are often used for sealed products due to their resistance to deformation.
The polymer is then heated (or initiated with uv light) and chemical reactions occur to form the cross links between the chains. The resulting three dimensional solid structure cannot then be changed. Further heating will not cause the polymer to soften, melt or change shape (unlike thermosoftening polymers). Examples of thermosetting polymers are. 1. Melamine resin-used in furniture. 2. Bakelite-used for saucepan handles and electric light fittings. 
Thus, thermoplastics may be reshaped by heating and are typically used to produce parts by various polymer processing techniques such as injection molding, compression molding, calendering, and extrusion. 
A thermosetting polymer (or plastic), also known as a thermoset, is a prepolymer material that cures irreversibly. The cure may be induced by heat, generally above 200 °C (392 °F), through a chemical reaction, or suitable irradiation. IUPAC defines a thermosetting resin as a prepolymer in a soft solid or viscous state that changes irreversibly into an infusible, insoluble polymer network by curing. Curing can be induced by the action of heat or suitable radiation, or both.
Thermosetting polymers. Polymer with cross-links. Thermosetting polymers have different properties to thermosoftening polymers. Once moulded, they do not soften when heated and they cannot be reshaped. Vulcanised rubber is a thermoset thermoset: Material that becomes permanently hard after heating. used to make tyres. Its polymer chains are joined together by cross-links, so they cannot slide past each other easily. Page: 1  1. 2  2. 3  3. 4  4. 5  5.