Varicose veins usually announce themselves as bulging, bluish cords running just beneath the surface of your skin. They almost always affect legs and feet. Visible swollen and twisted veins -- sometimes surrounded by patches of flooded capillaries known as spider veins -- are considered superficial varicose veins. Besides a surface network of veins, your legs have an interior, or deep, venous network. On rare occasions, an interior leg vein becomes varicose. Such deep varicose veins are usually not visible, but they can cause swelling or aching throughout the leg and may be sites where blood clots can form.
1 Have any varicose veins treated. 2  Varicose veins are larger, ropy looking veins with nonworking valves, a problem that allows blood to collect inside them. 3  Having your varicose veins treated can reduce the pressure in the legs and prevent the development of additional spider veins, Joseph says. 
Description. Varicose veins are veins near the surface of the skin, usually in the legs, that have become swollen and can be felt through the skin. These bulging, bluish veins are often found on the inside of the calf or thigh. An estimated 20 to 25 million people in the United States have varicose veins. Varicose veins. Varicose veins are veins near the surface of the skin, usually in the legs, that have become swollen and can be felt through the skin.
Spider veins are red and purple blood vessels that occur in patches on the legs. One theory is that spider veins, which occur near the surface of the skin, are fed by underlying varicose veins too small or embedded too deeply to reach the skin surface. These underlying veins disrupt circulation, causing spider veins to grow above them.
Telangiectasias /tɛlˌaen.tɛlˌæn.dʒiː.ɛkˈteɪ.zi/ ə also known as spider veins or, angioectasias are small dilated blood vessels near the surface of the skin or mucous, membranes measuring between.0 5 and 1 millimeter in. diameter 
Spider veins (referred to medically as telangectasias) and varicose veins are not the same -- and one does not lead to the other. Whereas varicose veins are large, swollen and occur singularly on the legs, spider veins are delicate and tend to develop in clusters. They are, however, caused by similar factors. One theory is that spider veins, which occur near the surface of the skin, are fed by underlying varicose veins too small or embedded too deeply to reach the skin surface. These underlying veins disrupt circulation, causing spider veins to grow above them.
Varicose veins are swollen, twisted veins that you can see just under the surface of the skin. These veins usually occur in the legs, but they also can form in other parts of the body. Varicose veins are a common condition. They usually cause few signs and symptoms. Sometimes varicose veins cause mild to moderate pain, blood clots, skin ulcers (sores), or other problems.
About Varicose Veins. Varicose (VAR-i-kos) veins are swollen, twisted veins that you can see just under the surface of the skin. These veins usually occur in the legs, but they also can form in other parts of the body. Varicose veins are a common condition. They usually cause few signs and symptoms. Sometimes varicose veins cause mild to moderate pain, blood clots, skin ulcers (sores), or other problems.
They usually develop in the legs and can be seen through the skin. Spider veins are smaller, red, purple, and blue vessels that also twist and turn. Spider veins are easily visible through the skin, as well. They are typically visible on the legs and face. Less common is swelling, ulcers and a darkening of the skin, especially in the ankle region. Occasionally, varicose veins can form a painful blood clot with inflammation of the vein, a condition called thrombophlebitis.