Parainfluenza/Bordetella vaccine, if recommended, should be given yearly. Leptospirosis vaccine should be given yearly to dogs that have an active outdoors lifestyle. The first RABIES vaccine is given at 4 months, a booster given in 1 year, then a booster given every 3 years.
Timing. Different veterinarians have different protocols about the timing of vaccinations. Most veterinarians recommend that a puppy receive his first parvovirus vaccination when he is 8 weeks old. The second vaccination is given in three to four weeks, about age 11 to 12 weeks. A third vaccination is given in three to four more weeks, about age 14 to 15 weeks. A vaccination is sometimes given three to four weeks later, about age 17 to 18 weeks. Most all veterinarians agree the final vaccination in the series should be given after the puppy is 4 months old. Once the puppy series is complete, your dog should received a booster vaccination each year.
For puppies less than 4 months of age: Puppies less than 16 weeks of age should receive distemper combination vaccinations consistent with the puppy vaccination schedule. A minimum of two vaccinations should be given at a 3-4 week interval, with the last vaccine in the series being given at 16 weeks of age or later. To provide the best response, a puppy needs multiple vaccinations for distemper, parvovirus and hepatitis until he reaches at least 16 weeks of age. He should be given one booster again when he reaches one year of age.
Usually puppies receive a series of either three or four boosters three weeks apart, starting at either six weeks (6, 9, 12, 16 weeks of age) or starting at nine weeks(9, 12 and 16 weeks). Rabies is given at 16 weeks, and all of the core vaccinations are repeated a year later. 
Consult with your veterinarian to determine which vaccinations your puppy should receive, and how often. Drs. Foster and Smith prefer to vaccinate puppies with a combination vaccine at six weeks of age initially, with boosters given every three weeks until the puppy is about sixteen weeks of age. We feel that this schedule will help protect the widest range of dogs. The number increased to 60% by 16 weeks of age, and by 18 weeks, 95% of the puppies were protected by the vaccine. Almost all researchers agree that for puppies and kittens, we need to give at least three combination vaccinations and repeat these at one year of age. Drs.
A puppy can be vaccinated for Parvovirus as early as 5 weeks. A combination vaccine (5-way) should be given at 6 and 9 weeks. At 12 and 15 weeks of age your puppy will need another combination vaccine, possibly a 7-way, as well as a rabies vaccine. Adult dogs will also require a booster shot once a year
How Puppy Vaccinations Work. Puppy vaccines are typically first administered at about six to eight weeks of age, then repeated every three to four weeks until about four months of age. Some of these vaccines might be given together in one injection that is called a combination vaccine
The first RABIES vaccine may be given at 3 months, then a booster given yearly. FeLV vaccinations are first given at 9 weeks of age or older, a booster given in 3 to 4 weeks, then a booster given yearly. FeLV vaccinations are recommended only for cats that may have exposure to other cats of unknown FeLV status. Leptospirosis vaccine should be given yearly to dogs that have an active outdoors lifestyle. The first RABIES vaccine is given at 4 months, a booster given in 1 year, then a booster given every 3 years.
Vaccine dose. It is NOT true that a small breed of puppy should receive a smaller vaccine dose than puppies of larger breeds. All puppies regardless of age, body weight, breed, and gender are given the same vaccine dose. Vaccines are generally administered in one milliliter (cc) doses. The number increased to 60% by 16 weeks of age, and by 18 weeks, 95% of the puppies were protected by the vaccine. Almost all researchers agree that for puppies and kittens, we need to give at least three combination vaccinations and repeat these at one year of age. Drs.