Oxandrolone, also known as oxandrin, is a drug first synthesized by Raphael Pappo while at Searle Laboratories, now Pfizer Inc. , under the trademark Anavar, and introduced into the United States in 1964. Biological effects [edit]. Oxandrolone is widely used due to its exceptionally small level of androgenicity accompanied by moderate anabolic effect. Although oxandrolone is a 17-alpha alkyloid, its liver toxicity is very small as well.
Anavar is the popular brand name associated with the dihydrotestosterone derived anabolic steroid Oxandrolone. The Oxandrolone hormone was first released in the early 1960’s under the trade name Anavar by G.D Searle & co. and was touted as carrying numerous therapeutic qualities. Anavar or Oxandrolone is specifically a dihydrotestosterone (DHT) hormone that has been structurally altered. It is DHT with an added oxygen atom replacing the carbon-2 in the A-ring. This alteration greatly increases the hormone’s anabolic activity, as well as prevents it from being metabolically broken down.
Anavar (Oxandrolone). by Bill Roberts – Anavar (oxandrolone), unlike most oral compounds is categorized as a Class I anabolic steroid, most efficiently stacked with Class II compounds such as Dianabol or Anadrol. Oxandrolone is the chemical name of active ingredient in Oxandrin and Anavar. Anavar was originally the registered trademark of Searle Laboratories. Oxandrin is a registered trademark of Bio-Technology General Corp. in the United States and/or other countries.
Anavar (Oxandrolone). Anavar was developed to treat conditions of muscle wasting and rapid weight loss, as is a common reason for inception with any anabolic steroid. Developed in 1964, by Searle Laboratories to treat such conditions, Searle is no longer in existence as it was bought and absorbed into Pfizer in 2003. The Side-Effects of Anavar. Most anabolic steroids carry with them the possibility of many adverse side-effects. It is important to keep in mind these side-effects are only possible, they are by no means guaranteed or assured and are largely avoidable when used responsibly.
Winstrol. Anavar is one of the most popular oral anabolic steroids on the market today, and among the top five anabolic steroids used in the history of steroid use. Its popularity arises from the fact that it’s well balanced and has few side effects and effective for athletes, men and women. The chemical name for Anavar is Oxandrolone and when used as part of a steroid cycle, with cutting and lean mass being the goal, or to increase performance, it can be effective, even with varied dosages. Click here to buy Anavar (P-Var) online.
Anavar is the old brand name for the oral steroid oxandrolone that was initially manufactured in the mid 1960s and was developed for muscle wasting and quick weight loss. Anavar is considered to a mild steroid, therefore you will you need to ingest high doses to achieve the desired muscle gain effects.
(Oxandrolone). Anavar represents one of the most popular oral anabolic steroids of all time, and this is largely due to its well-tolerated nature. This is one of the few anabolic steroids that can be used safely by men and women, and it’s also one of the most side effect friendly. Anavar or Oxandrolone is specifically a dihydrotestosterone (DHT) hormone that has been structurally altered. It is DHT with an added oxygen atom replacing the carbon-2 in the A-ring. This alteration greatly increases the hormone’s anabolic activity, as well as prevents it from being metabolically broken down.
Anavar has often been called a weak steroid. Part of the reason for this is that use of a Class I steroid alone never is maximally effective. The other cause is that bodybuilders and authors in the field sometimes make unfortunate and unreasonable comparisons when judging anabolic steroids. Oxandrolone is the chemical name of active ingredient in Oxandrin and Anavar. Anavar was originally the registered trademark of Searle Laboratories. Oxandrin is a registered trademark of Bio-Technology General Corp. in the United States and/or other countries.