Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) facts. 1  Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) is a condition characterized by destruction of red blood cells, low platelet count, and kidney failure. 1 There are two types of HUS. 2  Typical HUS follows a diarrheal infection often caused by E. coli OH157:H7. 3  Atypical HUS is not associated with an infection of the digestive tract and has a less favorable outcome. 4  Symptoms of HUS include vomiting and diarrhea (often bloody), weakness, lethargy, and bruising (purpura).
Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) is a complex condition in which a buildup of broken-down blood cells leads to serious kidney damage. Infections of the gastrointestinal tract (your stomach and intestines) are the most common cause of this disorder. Recognizing Symptoms of Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome. The symptoms of HUS vary. They can result from E. coli toxins, kidney damage, and the loss of red blood cells and platelets. Symptoms could include: 1  bloody diarrhea.
Atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome is a disease that primarily affects kidney function. This condition, which can occur at any age, causes abnormal blood clots (thrombi) to form in small blood vessels in the kidneys. These clots can cause serious medical problems if they restrict or block blood flow. As a result of clot formation in small blood vessels, people with atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome experience kidney damage and acute kidney failure that lead to end-stage renal disease (ESRD) in about half of all cases.
HUS is a rare condition that can lead to kidney failure in children. Kidney failure develops as a result of destruction of the small, functional structures and vessels inside the kidney. HUS is a serious illness and potentially fatal. 
Hemolytic-uremic syndrome (or haemolytic-uraemic syndrome), abbreviated HUS, is a disease characterized by hemolytic anemia (anemia caused by destruction of red blood cells), acute kidney failure (uremia), and a low platelet count (thrombocytopenia). It predominantly, but not exclusively, affects children. The more common form of the disease, Shiga-like toxin-producing E. coli HUS (STEC-HUS), is triggered by the infectious agent E. coli O157:H7. Certain Shiga toxin secreting strains of Shigella dysenteriae can also cause HUS.
Yes. HUS is considered a syndrome because it is a combination of findings that may have different causes. In most cases, HUS occurs after a severe bowel infection with certain toxic strains of the bacteria called E. coli. It may also occur in response to certain medicines, but this is rare
This may explain the pathogenesis of HUS, in which a characteristic renal lesion is capillary microangiopathy. HUS was first defined as a syndrome in 1955. The more common form of the disease, Shiga-like toxin-producing E. coli HUS (STEC-HUS), is triggered by the infectious agent E. coli O157:H7. Certain Shiga toxin secreting strains of Shigella dysenteriae can also cause HUS.
Atypical HUS (Hemolytic Uremic Syndrome) is not caused by an external agent (such as a bacteria, virus etc). Instead, some sort of internal chain of events sets the disease off, and the syndrome becomes active. The syndrome is not well understood. 
1 Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) is a condition characterized by destruction of red blood cells, low platelet count, and kidney failure. 2  There are two types of HUS. 3  Typical HUS follows a diarrheal infection often caused by E. coli OH157:H7. 1 There are two types of HUS. 2  Typical HUS follows a diarrheal infection often caused by E. coli OH157:H7. 3  Atypical HUS is not associated with an infection of the digestive tract and has a less favorable outcome. 4  Symptoms of HUS include vomiting and diarrhea (often bloody), weakness, lethargy, and bruising (purpura).
Jump to navigation. Hemolytic uremic syndrome (HUS) is a condition that affects the blood and blood vessels. It results in the destruction of blood platelets (cells involved in clotting), a low red blood cell count (anemia) and kidney failure due to damage to the very small blood vessels of the kidneys. HUS is considered a syndrome because it is a combination of findings that may have different causes. In most cases, HUS occurs after a severe bowel infection with certain toxic strains of the bacteria called E. coli.