Most travel agencies charge a service fee, usually a minimum of $25.00 per person plus GST for most bookings made. My service fee will be $25.00 plus GST per person for domestic and trans-border travel, with a maximum of $50.00 plus GST per family. For some international bookings my service fee will be $35.00 plus GST, with a maximum of $7
My fee for a custom trip for 7 people would far exceed $100. A travel agent usually does get their fee in the form of commission from hotels, tour operators etc. Since commission on airfare in basically non-existant, there is usually now a fee for an agent to book airline tickets. I talked to a travel agent about booking a trip for seven members of my family to England and France--not a pre-done tour, but a custom job. He said his agency requires $100 for him to work on it because it would take many hours.
Travel agencies make their money in a variety of ways. The products agents sell have built-in fees that result in a profit for the agency. The amount of the fees and the ways in which they are earned and distributed differ by the type of product sold and the suppliers who provide that product to the agency. 
Save money. Some people shy away from using a travel agent because they think they'll be charged extra for the agent's services. Some agents charge additional fees (for example, a $25 fee for their time and research), but most make their commission through the travel suppliers. You're going to get more value from your money booking with a travel agent, Peters says
Five myths about tipping. 4. Travel agents charge surcharges and fees on top of the price. Some certainly do. Travel agents get paid on commission by hotels, airlines and resorts, but many more are charging fees on top of that because of their time. There's a movement among agencies that you should be charging refundable fees, says Haraty. You'll see more agencies charging, say, $150 to $300 to put a trip together but then you get that back when you actually book with them.. 5. All travel agents are the same.
Submit. · just now. Report Abuse. Actually, travel agents do charge now. It depends on the agent. Some charge around $100-150 consulting fee to make the arrangements, which is sometimes waived if you book hotels and flights together. Most tack on about a $50 fee per ticket for flights only. I'm a travel agent and we make our money through commission from the hotel, resort, cruise line, etc., that we book. Booking airfare, the most we can charge over the fare is $10.
Most do charge fees. Since 1998, the number of agencies charging service fees on one or more product line has increased from 64 percent to more than 91% percent in 2009. The most common fee charged is a service fee for airline ticket procurement services. On average, ASTA travel agencies charge their customers $36 for providing this service. Agencies also often charge fees for other services such as trip research, Amtrak, car rental and hotel-only reservations. 
Some agents do charge a per-hour fee when they’re planning a trip, and agents can earn commission on some of their bookings. But, you can typically expect a travel agent to cost around the same as if you’d booked it yourself. When you factor in the time it saves you, travel agents may be worth the cost. 