Phytase. Phytase is an enzyme that specifically acts on phytate, breaking it down to release phosphorus in a form available to the animal. This greatly reduces the need for supplemental inorganic phosphorus and improves the nutritional value of feedstuffs. Fast facts. Phytase is an enzyme that increases availability of phosphorus in pig diets. Phytase lowers the amount of supplemental phosphorus required in the diet. Because of improved dietary phosphorus utilization, less phosphorus is excreted in the manure.
Phytase is one of the many essential enzymes necessary for the digestive process, and a key enzyme for bone health. Commonly found in plant material, phytase is a natural enzyme often used for breaking down and increasing the nutritional quality of grains, legumes, seeds and corn. Studies confirm that the use of this enzyme can help reduce the need for calcium phosphate and increase digestiv
Phytases. Phytase is an enzyme which breaks down phytate and therefore improves P, Ca, Zn, Na, Mg and amino acid availability and digestibility in broilers and pigs (Walk, 2012). Phytases fall into two main categories:
The action we want phytase to complete, if you remember our discussion of phytates and phytic acid, is to separate the phytates and phytic acid from one another, thus releasing phosphorus and other minerals trapped in that bond. Various plants have differing amounts of the enzyme phytase. For example, wheat, rye, and barley have considerable amounts of phytase, whereas corn, oats, sorghum, and millet have little or no phytase activity.
Share. Phytase is an enzyme that has the ability to liberate the phosphate and mineral residues from phytic acid (phytate), a compound formed during the maturation process of plant seeds and grains that is commonly found in plant-based foods. Commonly found in plant material, phytase is a natural enzyme often used for breaking down and increasing the nutritional quality of grains, legumes, seeds and corn.
Four distinct classes of phytase have been characterized in the literature: histidine acid phosphatases (HAPS), B-propeller phytases, purple acid phosphatases, and most recently, protein tyrosine phosphatase-like phytases (PTP-like phytases). The three-dimensional structure of β-propeller phytase is similar to a propeller with six blades. Current research suggests that β-propeller phytases are the major phytate-degrading enzymes in water and soil, and may play a major role in phytate-phosphorus cycling.
Nutri-Phytase-5000. CONCENTRATE. Phytase as an enzyme is capable of breaking down phytates in feeds to release inorganic phosphorus and inositol as well as protein, amino acids, trace minerals and other nutrients chelated with phytates.
Phytate. A phytase (myo-inositol hexakisphosphate phosphohydrolase) is any type of phosphatase enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of phytic acid (myo-inositol hexakisphosphate) – an indigestible, organic form of phosphorus that is found in grains and oil seeds – and releases a usable form of inorganic phosphorus. The three-dimensional structure of β-propeller phytase is similar to a propeller with six blades. Current research suggests that β-propeller phytases are the major phytate-degrading enzymes in water and soil, and may play a major role in phytate-phosphorus cycling.