Beef-Lamb-Veal Roasts-Steaks-Chops. For roasts of lamb, beef, or veal: place the thermometer midway inside the roast away from bone. Residual Heat or Carry-Over Cooking: Remember, the steak will continue to cook as it sets. The temperature will rise 5 degrees F. to 10 degrees F. internal temperature. So, pay attention to how long you let the cooked meat sit before serving. Sear, bake, or broil each side for approximately 4 minutes or until an instant-read cooking or meat thermometer inserted into their centers reach 115 degrees F. Remove from heat. The carryover cooking will add another 10 to 15 degrees, for an ideal final temperature of 125 to 13
Medium: Grill 10 minutes per side or to 155°F internal temperature. Check Internal Temperature. Remove steaks from the grill when a quick-response meat thermometer inserted through the side of the steak to its center reads the desired temperature below. To retain juices and reach final temperature, let steaks sit for 2 minutes before cutting. Steak Doneness
Cooking Perfect Steak Recipe: Room Temperature Steaks: Always let your steaks come to room temperature (70 degree F.) before cooking or grilling. If your room's temperature differs from 70 degrees F., then just adjust your time accordingly. A cold steak will contract when it hits the heat and this wall cause it to toughen. Remove from heat and put the cast iron skillet with the steaks in it into the oven. Cook an additional 3 to 5 minutes, depending on thickness of steaks and degree of doneness you like. Using the Sear-Roasting technique, proceed to cook your steak to your desired internal temperature.
Marinated Grilled Steak. The proper temperature to cook a medium-rare steak is 130° - 135° F. Although, according to foodsafety.gov, beef, lamb, and pork should be cooked to at least 145° (or above, if desired). Ground meat must be cooked to at least 160° F. Ground poultry must be cooked to at least 165°. 
Use a meat thermometer to test for doneness. Rare - 120 degrees F Medium Rare - 125 degrees F Medium - 130 degrees F When the steaks are crusty-charred and done to your liking, remove from the grill and let sit 15 minutes before serving (meat temperature will rise 5 to 10 degrees after it is removed from the oven). Remove from heat and put the cast iron skillet with the steaks in it into the oven. Cook an additional 3 to 5 minutes, depending on thickness of steaks and degree of doneness you like. Using the Sear-Roasting technique, proceed to cook your steak to your desired internal temperature.
Depending on size and thickness of steak the cooking time varies for 3/4 inch steak about 8 minutes for med rare and about 15 minutes for well done. try to cook equal amounts of time on each side to ensure it is evenly cooked. the amount of times you turn it doesn't matter unless you're concerned about grill marks. A 1 inch boneless rib eye, tenderloin, or top loin steak should be cooked for 6-8 minutes on the George Foreman Grill (covered) at 350 degrees F to 375 degrees F for medium ra … re. If you are cooking uncovered it should be 8-11 minutes. 45 people found this useful.
Rub the spice mixture all over the steak. Broil until just charred and crispy on top, about 6 minutes on 1 side. Flip the steak and cook until beginning to char, about 6 minutes more or until rare and temperature registers 115 degrees F on an instant-read thermometer. Place the steak on a cutting board and let rest, tented with foil for about 10 minutes
320-350 f would be good.Make sure the steak is not too cold when put in pan or on bbq so it doesn't shrink into itself and come out tough. 4-5 minutes each side for a 3/4 inch steak. Turn only once. A 1 inch boneless rib eye, tenderloin, or top loin steak should be cooked for 6-8 minutes on the George Foreman Grill (covered) at 350 degrees F to 375 degrees F for medium ra … re. If you are cooking uncovered it should be 8-11 minutes. 45 people found this useful.