Trip Advice (6 replies). Latest news from Beulah, MI collected exclusively by city-data.com from local newspapers, TV, and radio stations. Ancestries: German (21.7%), Irish (11.5%), English (11.0%), Polish (7.9%), Dutch (5.2%), French (3.9%). Hospitals and medical centers near Beulah: 1  MAPLES BENZIE CO MEDICAL CARE (Nursing Home, about 6 miles away; FRANKFORT, MI). 2  PAUL OLIVER MEMORIAL HOSPITAL LTCU (Nursing Home, about 7
Beulah is a village in the U.S. state of Michigan and the county seat of Benzie County. The population was 342 at the 2010 census. It is located in Benzonia Township at the southeast end of Crystal Lake, about one mile (1.6 km) north of Benzonia on U.S. Highway 31 (US 31). Beulah was founded in 1880 by Charles E. Bailey. Its name comes from Isaiah 62:4.
The median household income is $43,095. In Beulah, 47% of residents are married, and families with children reside in 16% of the households. Half the population of Beulah commutes 12 minutes or less to work, with 31% of residents holding white collar jobs and 69% residents holding blue collar jobs. The median age of homes in Beulah, MI is 40 years, with 40% of those homes owned, 13% rented, and 48% not occupied. In the previous year, 5 Beulah properties were sold. The median sale price of a home in Beulah in the previous year was $371,300. 
1 They own a home(s) and land in the village but have a permanent residence (voting) elsewhere. 2  Frequent seasonal visitors. 3  These folks know about and come to Beulah on a regular basis and rent vacation properties or reside in temporary housing as in trailer or campsite locations. 1 Frequent seasonal visitors. 2  These folks know about and come to Beulah on a regular basis and rent vacation properties or reside in temporary housing as in trailer or campsite locations. 3  New
Related: honor michigan benzonia michigan frankfort michigan honor mi frankfort mi alma college fenton michigan benzonia hamilton beach malt eco tireflator. Follow beulah michigan to get e-mail alerts and updates on your eBay Feed. Unfollow beulah michigan to stop getting updates on your eBay Feed. Yay! You're now following beulah michigan in your eBay Feed.
Located on the shores of beautiful Crystal Lake, Beulah offers a multitude of opportunities every season of the year. Charming up-north village with quaint shops, beautiful galleries, and small cozy eateries. Out-door enthusiasts tube or canoe down the Platte River, golf, fish either Crystal or Lake Michigan, or relax in the sun. 
1 Seasonal residents. 2  They own a home(s) and land in the village but have a permanent residence (voting) elsewhere. 3  Frequent seasonal visitors. 4  These folks know about and come to Beulah on a regular basis and rent vacation properties or reside in temporary housing as in trailer or campsite locations. 1 Frequent seasonal visitors. 2  These folks know about and come to Beulah on a regular basis and rent vacation properties or reside in temporary housing as in trailer or campsite locations. 3  New
Beulah, Michigan Things To Do. Few places compare with the natural beauty of Northern Michigan and Beulah, as part of that area, is no exception. Pristine Crystal Lake, great fishing and breathtaking sunsets keep people returning year round! Use of the launch is at no charge. The creek meanders through the Village of Beulah on its way to Crystal Lake. The majority of the Crystal Lake watershed is east of Beulah, where branches of the creek converge and form the primary inlet to the lake.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Beulah is a village in the U.S. state of Michigan and the county seat of Benzie County. The population was 342 at the 2010 census. It is located in Benzonia Township at the southeast end of Crystal Lake, about one mile (1.6 km) north of Benzonia on U.S. Highway 31 (US 31). Beulah was founded in 1880 by Charles E. Bailey. Its name comes from Isaiah 62:4. The Beulah post office was established in 1892