Established to help people get the best deal on commercial gym equipment for their new start-up gym or fitness center expansion. With our extensive background in the commercial gym equipment sales industry, we are here to help you realize your dream of owning your own gym and fitness center.
When buying home gym equipment you generally get what you pay for – robust equipment that will provide years of reliable use can't be manufactured cheaply. If your budget is really limited, then look for inexpensive options such as a skipping rope, resistance bands, or an exercise mat.
Buying Gym Equipment Cost. Commercial fitness equipment is expensive, but the total cost varies based on the size of your gym and the type of machines you decide to buy. 1  Light commercial treadmills start at about $2,000, while regular commercial treadmills start at about $3,000. 2  High-end models can cost as much as $5,000 to $10,000.
How much does hiking equipment cost? One of the great things about hiking is that you need relatively little equipment to do it. The only real costs might be a good pair of hiking socks ($10-$20) and a pair of hi … king shoes or boots ($100-$400).
Depending on the level of equipment you buy the total cost can range anywhere from $800-$1000 to well over $10,000. Buying used equipment can greatly decrease the total cost, … just ensure that it is all inspected for proper functionality by a professional.
Leasing Gym Equipment Cost. Your monthly payment is determined by several factors: the total cost of the equipment, the length of the lease and your credit rating. With good credit, you could lease $100,000 worth of equipment for $2,500 to $2,700 per month for four years.
Gym Equipment Leasing Average Cost. The cost of leasing gym equipment varies widely depending on the amount of equipment you need, the equipment condition, and your credit score. As a general guideline machines like commercial treadmills, ellipticals, and stationary bikes can be leased for $60 to $100 per month.