Abstract. Substituted judgment is often invoked as a guide for decision making when a patient lacks decision making capacity and has no advance directive. Using substituted judgment, doctors and family members try to make the decision that the patient would have made if he or she were able to make decisions. 
Substituted Judgment (Guardianship) Law & Legal Definition. Substituted judgment generally is a decision made by a person on behalf of a person who is incompetent and unable to decide for himself or herself. Substituted judgment with regard to guardianship is the standard that directs the decision making of a guardian. 
Substituted judgment: the limitations of autonomy in surrogate decision making. Torke AM(1), Alexander GC, Lantos J. Author information: (1)Indiana University Center for Aging Research, Indianapolis, IN, USA. atorke@iupui.edu. Comment in J Gen Intern Med. 2009 Jan;24(1):145; author reply 146. 
The purpose of substituted judgment is to ensure that patients who may be mentally incompetent can still maintain their core values, beliefs and morals when it comes to important decisions regarding their life and health. The principle of substituted judgment is a way in determining, to the best of your ability, what kind of decision another person would make, while substituting that person's judgment for your own.
Definition. According to USLegal, substituted judgment can be defined as a principle that allows a surrogate decision-maker to attempt to establish, with as much accuracy as possible, what decision an incompetent patient would make if he or she were competent to do so.. The principle of substituted judgment is a way in determining, to the best of your ability, what kind of decision another person would make, while substituting that person's judgment for your own.
A final judgment is one which puts an end to the suit. 23. When the issue is one in fact, and is tried by a jury, the jury at the time that they try the issue, assess the damages, and the judgment is final in the first instance, and is that the plaintiff do recover the damages assessed. 24. A judgment is the final part of a court case. A valid judgment resolves all the contested issues and terminates the lawsuit, since it is regarded as the court's official pronouncement of the law on the action that was pending before it. It states who wins the case and what remedies the winner is awarded
54. In actions where the judgment was against the defendant, it was entered at common law, with a misericordia or a capiatur. With a misericordia in actions on contracts, with a capiatur in actions of trespass, or other forcible wrong, alleged to have been committed vi et armis. A judgment is the final part of a court case. A valid judgment resolves all the contested issues and terminates the lawsuit, since it is regarded as the court's official pronouncement of the law on the action that was pending before it. It states who wins the case and what remedies the winner is awarded
Substituted Judgment. The second-line approach, substituted judgment, generally does not overrule advance directives, but may play a role when questions emerge about how to interpret and apply advance directives. 