McDougall proposes this as evidence that the foods best suited to human physiology are starches. The diet recommended by McDougall consists of 70 percent starch (rice potatoes, beans etc.), 10 percent fruit and 20 percent vegetables. You will center the food on your plate around starches with the addition of nonstarchy vegetables and fruit to add color and flavor. 
Starchy foods such as potatoes, bread, cereals, rice and pasta should make up about a third of the food you eat, as shown by the eatwell plate. Where you can, choose wholegrain varieties, or eat potatoes with their skins on for more fibre. Starch is the most common form of carbohydrate in our diet. Starchy foods are a good source of energy and the main source of a range of nutrients in our diet. As well as starch, they contain fibre, calcium, iron and B vitamins. Some people think starchy foods are fattening, but gram for gram they contain fewer than half the calories of fat.
Beans and Other Legumes. Beans and other legumes have the distinction of counting as both starchy foods and protein foods. These include lentils, kidney beans, black-eyed peas, chickpeas, black beans, white beans, pinto beans and any other types of dried beans. However, the U.S. Department of Agriculture recommends you fill one-fourth of your plate with these foods at each meal since they provide essential nutrients. Starchy foods, sometimes called complex carbohydrates, include grains, beans and legumes and starchy vegetables. Foods in this group include pasta, breads, popcorn, crackers, tortillas, cereals, rice, oatmeal, barley, millet and other grai
Because starches consist of chains of molecules, they are considered complex carbohydrates. Starchy foods such as wheat, legumes, potatoes and some vegetables and fruits help you meet your daily requirements for vitamins and minerals. Legumes of all shapes, sizes and colors are starchy foods. Pinto beans, garbanzo beans, lentils, peas and lima beans are rich in starches. Dried beans also provide protein, fiber, iron, potassium and other essential nutrients. One serving of legumes equals about one-half cup of cooked beans.
Starches are omnipresent in many foods, which makes them difficult to avoid. Starches make up a large part of the carbohydrates consumed by Americans. Foods made from starchy vegetables, grains or their flours, such as french fries, baked potatoes, breads, pasta, rice, cookies and cakes, are all high in starches. Some starches can be metabolized as quickly and even quicker than sugar, which means that they can rapidly increase your blood sugar levels after eating.
Low-carb diets. Low-carbohydrate (low-carb) diets usually involve cutting out most starchy foods. These diets tend to be high in fat, and eating a high-fat diet (especially saturated fat from foods such as meat, cheese and butter) could increase your risk of heart disease. Starchy foods are a good source of energy and the main source of a range of nutrients in our diet. As well as starch, they contain fibre, calcium, iron and B vitamins. Some people think starchy foods are fattening, but gram for gram they contain fewer than half the calories of fat.
AMG – Libertyville, 847-566-5200. This diet is a diet low in sugary and starchy foods. The diet consists of “real” food like meat, fish, cheese, eggs, salads and vegetables, and you will limit the amount of fruit, bread, pasta, dairy, potatoes, rice and beans. 
Potatoes, corn, parsnips, pumpkin, squash, yams and sweet potatoes are starchy vegetables. One-half cup of corn, 1/4 of a large baked potato, 1 cup of pumpkin or squash constitute a serving of starchy vegetables, according to the American Diabetes Association’s food exchange list. Legumes of all shapes, sizes and colors are starchy foods. Pinto beans, garbanzo beans, lentils, peas and lima beans are rich in starches. Dried beans also provide protein, fiber, iron, potassium and other essential nutrients. One serving of legumes equals about one-half cup of cooked beans.
Although potatoes are vegetables, in the UK we mostly eat them as the starchy food part of a meal, and they are a good source of carbohydrate in our diets. Because of this, potatoes don't count towards your five portions of fruit and vegetables a day, but they can play an important role in your diet. Starchy foods are a good source of energy and the main source of a range of nutrients in our diet. As well as starch, they contain fibre, calcium, iron and B vitamins. Some people think starchy foods are fattening, but gram for gram they contain fewer than half the calories of fat.