Earth, our home, is the third planet from the sun. It is the only planet known to have an atmosphere containing free oxygen, oceans of liquid water on its surface, and, of course, life. Roughly 71 percent of Earth's surface is covered by water, most of it in the oceans. About a fifth of Earth's atmosphere is made up of oxygen, produced by plants. While scientists have been studying our planet for centuries, much has been learned in recent decades by studying pictures of Earth from space.
This means that more ultraviolet radiation can pass through the atmosphere to the Earths surface, particularly at the poles and nearby regions during certain times of the year. Without the layer of ozone in the stratosphere to protect us from excessive amounts of UV-B radiation, life as we know it would not exist. Ultraviolet (UV) radiation that reaches the Earths surface is in wavelengths between 290 and 400 nm (nanometers, or billionths of a meter). This is shorter than wavelengths of visible light, which are 400 to 700 nm.
Fig.4. Interdependence of the organisms in the Biosphere can be illustrated by Pyramid of Life. Base of this pyramid is occupied by organisms which are utilizing photosynthesis for extraction of energy and negative entropy from the Sun's radiation.
(Points: 1) caused melanomas on reptile skin created broad regions of deserts led to greenhouse-type atmospheres broke the organic molecule bonds dried up the primordial poolsWeegy: The negative role that sunlight had in the evolution of early life on earth was - - BROKE THE ORGANIC MOLECULE BONDS. 
The ability of certain trace gases to be relatively transparent to incoming visible light from the sun, yet opaque to the energy radiated from the earth is one of the best understood processes in the atmospheric sciences. This phenomenon, the greenhouse effect, is what makes the earth habitable for life. Greenhouse Effect. Atmospheric scientists first used the term 'greenhouse effect' in the early 1800s. At that time, it was used to describe the naturally occurring functions of trace gases in the atmosphere and did not have any negative connotations.
The sun was born about 4.6 billion years ago. Many scientists think the sun and the rest of the solar system formed from a giant, rotating cloud of gas and dust known as the solar nebula. As the nebula collapsed because of its gravity, it spun faster and flattened into a disk. Most of the material was pulled toward the center to form the sun. 
Summary A great deal can be learned by approaching the history of life on Earth from the standpointof geology. The rocks that make up thegeologic record preserve changes in theplanet’s crust, oceans, and atmosphere thathave accompanied the history of the evolution of life. Soon after the emergence of thefirst life more than 4 billion years ago, theactivities of organisms began to influence thecomposition of the atmosphere. As Earth’sbiosphere and atmosphere co-evolved over Stromatolites in Western Australia, today.
Earth’s early atmosphere contained only small amounts of free oxygen, probably produced entirely by the reaction of sunlight with water vapor from volcanoes. The oxygen-rich atmosphere that evolved later, and upon which oxygen-breathing life now depends, was a result of the origin of photosynthesis. 
The Earth’s atmosphere blocks 98.7% of the Sun’s UV radiation from penetrating through the atmosphere. The 2.3% that gets through has both positive and negative effects. Causes sunburn-UV burns the skin. Sunburn is a burn that occurs when skin cells are damaged. This damage to the skin is caused by the absorption of energy from UV rays. Extra blood flows to the damaged skin in an attempt to repair it, which is why your skin turns red when you are sunburnt.
1 The earth's atmosphere contains trace gases, some of which absorb heat. 2  These gases (water vapor, carbon dioxide, methane, ozone, and nitrous oxide) are referred to as greenhouse gases.. 3  Albedo has an important influence on the earth's temperature. 4  Greenhouses are structures designed to retain heat. Greenhouse Effect. Atmospheric scientists first used the term 'greenhouse effect' in the early 1800s. At that time, it was used to describe the naturally occurring functions of trace gases in the atmosphere and did not have any negative connotations.