A collection of loops produced by Marshall for producers looking to make inspired classic and future House tracks, using some of the sources that up until now Marshall has kept a closely guarded secret. 59.00 USD. Marshall’s dedication to the project and musical input has resulted in a truly unique collection of rare and previously unreleased loops, which are sure to grace many hits in the future, both within the House genre and other styles.
Marshall Jefferson (born September 19, 1959 in Chicago, Illinois) is an American musician, working in house music, in particular, the subgenres of Chicago house and deep house. Jefferson took a break from music in 1990, then returned to DJing in 1993. He moved to England and lived in a small town called Billericay in Essex near London where he had a five-year residency with the Tribal Gathering and Big Love events. Jefferson now lives in Manchester, UK.
read more. Marshall Jefferson (born September 19, 1959) is widely regarded as one of the leading innovators of the genre of music now known as house music, in particular the subgenre of Chicago house. 
Jefferson's 1986 single for Trax, Move Your Body (The House-Music Anthem), the first house song to use piano, was a popular and influential song in the genre. During the late-1980s heyday of house music he recorded solo and collaborative material under various names such as Virgo, Jungle Wonz, Truth, and On The House. Jefferson's deep house productions include songs by CeCe Rogers and Sterling Void, and Ten City 's first two albums. In March 1987, the British music magazine NME reported that Jefferson and Frankie Knuckles were in the UK for the first house-music tour. Jefferson took a break from music in 1990, then returned to DJing in 1993. He moved to England and lived in a small town called Billericay in Essex near London where he had a five-year residency with the Tribal Gathering and Big Love events. Jefferson now lives in Manchester, UK.
Dear MARSHALL JEFFERSON I dedicate this single to you. ｢saturday night forever(2 tracks for DJ's)｣ 1.the dance music 2.I'm waiting for the guy You can download new single from SoundCloud!! soundcloud.com/b2500/ Let's dance together!!!! Regards Kazuya Saito(B2500). So why is the human brain so overextented and bored with it's functions that even Mr. Einstein used only 14-17% of his brain-capacity even with the Cabala brain enlargement techniques.
One of the original innovators in Chicago house, Marshall Jefferson had a hand in several of the music's most influential early tracks. As a solo act, he recorded 1986's Move Your Body -- subtitled and unanimously acclaimed The House Music Anthem.. One of the original innovators in Chicago house, Marshall Jefferson had a hand in several of the music's most influential early tracks. As a solo act, he recorded 1986's Move Your Body -- subtitled…. Read Full Biography. 1  Overview ↓.
Box Tops 4 Education. We want to remind parents to cut and send in box tops and where to find them You can use one of the clip art’s below and just say please remember to cut and send in your box tops to Marshall (and Jefferson if they are doing it). As we begin our work together, I want to honor what we all have in common – the desire and commitment to work towards the best for each and every child. We are a very good school system, and there are many things to celebrate in our schools. I have heard of numerous impressive accomplishments ...
House Generation. A collection of loops produced by Marshall for producers looking to make inspired classic and future House tracks, using some of the sources that up until now Marshall has kept a closely guarded secret. 59.00 USD. Add To Cart. Marshall’s dedication to the project and musical input has resulted in a truly unique collection of rare and previously unreleased loops, which are sure to grace many hits in the future, both within the House genre and other styles.
Biography by John Bush. One of the original innovators in Chicago house, Marshall Jefferson had a hand in several of the music's most influential early tracks. As a solo act, he recorded 1986's Move Your Body -- subtitled…. Read Full Biography. 1  Overview ↓.