A surety bond will cost you a surety bond fee AND a Sheriff's fee of $25. You will not get any of the surety bondsman s fee or the $25 back because it is nonrefundable. The surety bondsman s fee, set by the insurance company, may cost about 10% of the total bond plus $25 or $35 dollars.
Bail or bond (in this case, bail and bond mean the same thing) is an amount of money in cash, property, or surety bond for the purpose of making sure that a person attends all required court appearances. Bond allows an arrested person (defendant) to be released from jail until his or her case is completed.
A bail bondsman can provide a surety bond to have the inmate released, for a mere fee of ten percent of the total bail amount. So in the case of a $50,000 bond, whomever is signing the bond must pay $5,000 up front.
If a surety bond was posted and the defendant takes flight, then the bail bondsman’s first course of action is to locate the defendant and bring them back in front of the judge; accomplished with either the help of the co-signer, or the employment of a fugitive recovery agent (aka bounty hunter).
About. Bail is the cash payment paid by the defendant to the court. A bond is the bondsman’s pledge to make good on the bail if the defendant doesn’t appear. Mode of payment. Cash only. Third party agrees to be responsible for the debt and obligation of the defendant.
A bond is the bondsman’s pledge to make good on the bail if the defendant doesn’t appear before the court. Traditionally, the defendant pays the bondsman 10% of the value of the bond and puts up collateral security, such as real estate.
Unfortunately the risk of this is almost identical between cash bonds and surety bonds. If an inmate goes on the lam, and never returns, then the person who signed off on the bail bond is liable for the full bond amount. If a cash bond was put forward the courts will forfeit bail and keep this money.
Bondsman, bondsperson, bail agent, and bond agent are all names used for a person who is licensed by the State Department of Insurance to sell surety bonds and is authorized to conduct business in the State of Idaho. He or she is an agent for an insurance company that sells surety bonds.
A surety bond is an agreement made between a person and a bondsman. The bondsman agrees to post the necessary bond so the defendant can be released from jail. This agreement is backed by an insurance company contract signed by the person and the bondsman on behalf of the insurance company.