Confidence votes 1.1K. The sperm usually fertilizes the egg in the Fallopian tubes. Then, the fertilized egg moves down to the uterus where it implants, causing pregnancy. The segment of the Fallopian Tube where fertilization commonly occurs is the ampulla.. As the egg travels travel down,  the sperm cells are released from the oviduct wall and continue  their journey to the egg. The long and short of it is that  fertilization finally occurs in the ampula or wider section of the  oviduct closer to the ovary.
Female Reproductive System Structures. 1. ovary -- (females have two of these) -- produce female gametes or eggs and the hormone estrogen. 2. oviduct (fallopian tube) -- carries the egg away from the uterus. -- internal fertilization normally occurs here. 3. uterus -- implantation and development of the embryo and fetus before birth occurs here. 4. vagina or birth canal -- entry point for sperm from the male and exit tube for the baby when it is born. 
Best Answer: In humans, most fertilizations occur in the Fallopian tubes. However, sometimes it does happen in the upper uterus. And in other cases -- especially due to pelvic inflammatory disease -- fertilization can occur externally from the reproductive tract, resulting in a seriously ectopic pregnancy. Source(s): Using Wikipedia is cheating. I have a degree in biology
Illustration depicting ovulation and fertilization. Human fertilization is the union of a human egg and sperm, usually occurring in the ampulla of the uterine tube. The result of this union is the production of a zygote cell, or fertilized egg, initiating prenatal development. Scientists discovered the dynamics of human fertilization in the nineteenth century. By convention, gestational age is calculated by adding 14 days to fertilization age and vice versa. In fact, however, fertilization usually occurs within a day of ovulation, which, in turn, occurs on average 14.6 days after the beginning of the preceding menstruation (LMP).
Fertilization in cattle occurs in the ampula of the oviduct. Sperm  cells, after passing through the cervix, are transported by the  uterine horns to the oviducts of the cow … . Once there, the sperm  cells attach to the walls of the oviduct and futher mature for 4 to  6 hours. As the egg travels travel down,  the sperm cells are released from the oviduct wall and continue  their journey to the egg. The long and short of it is that  fertilization finally occurs in the ampula or wider section of the  oviduct closer to the ovary.
The actual fertilization usually occurs in the fallopian tube.   Fertilization occurs within 12-24 hours after ovulation. Ovulation usually takes place 14 days afte … r your menstruation starts. Ovulation can vary from woman to woman it can happen before day 14 and after; it doesn't always have to be on day 14. Fertilisation occurs in the fallopian tube (aka oviduct/ uterine tube). Implantation occurs in the uterus (aka womb). If the zygote (fetilised egg) were to implant itself … away from the uterus, it would be classified as an ectopic pregnancy and the potential mother would have to go through an abortion or she would die.
fallopian tubes In the human body, fertilization of egg cells occur in the oviduct (also called the fallopian tube) of the female's reproductive system. Fertilisation occurs in the fallopian tube (aka oviduct/ uterine tube). Implantation occurs in the uterus (aka womb). If the zygote (fetilised egg) were to implant itself … away from the uterus, it would be classified as an ectopic pregnancy and the potential mother would have to go through an abortion or she would die.
The sperm usually fertilizes the egg in the Fallopian tubes. Then, the fertilized egg moves down to the uterus where it implants, causing pregnancy. The segment of the Fall … opian Tube where fertilization commonly occurs is the ampulla.. + 39 others found this useful. Fertilisation occurs in the fallopian tube (aka oviduct/ uterine tube). Implantation occurs in the uterus (aka womb). If the zygote (fetilised egg) were to implant itself … away from the uterus, it would be classified as an ectopic pregnancy and the potential mother would have to go through an abortion or she would die.
fallopian tubes In the human body, fertilization of egg cells occur in the oviduct (also called the fallopian tube) of the female's reproductive system. As the egg travels travel down,  the sperm cells are released from the oviduct wall and continue  their journey to the egg. The long and short of it is that  fertilization finally occurs in the ampula or wider section of the  oviduct closer to the ovary.
Fertilization. If one sperm does make its way into the fallopian tube and burrows into the egg, it fertilizes the egg. The egg changes so that no other sperm can get in. At the instant of fertilization, your baby's genes and sex are set. If the sperm has a Y chromosome, your baby will be a boy.