Bile: Bile is a yellow-green fluid that is made by the liver, stored in the gallbladder and passes through the common bile duct into the duodenum where it helps digest fat. The principal components of bile are cholesterol, bile salts, and the pigment bilirubin. 
H&E stain. Bile or gall is a dark green to yellowish brown fluid, produced by the liver of most vertebrates, that aids the digestion of lipids in the small intestine. In humans, bile is produced continuously by the liver (liver bile), and stored and concentrated in the gallbladder (gallbladder bile). After eating, this stored bile is discharged into the duodenum.
bile. n. 1. A bitter, alkaline, brownish-yellow or greenish-yellow fluid that is secreted by the liver, stored in the gallbladder, and discharged into the duodenum and aids in the emulsification, digestion, and absorption of fats. Also called gall 1. bile ducts the canals or passageways that conduct bile. There are three bile ducts: the hepatic duct drains bile from the liver; the cystic duct is an extension of the gallbladder and conveys bile from the gallbladder. These two ducts may be thought of as branches that drain into the “trunk,” or common bile duct.
Bile is a fluid made by the liver and stored in the gallbladder. Bile is excreted into the small intestine, where it helps digest fat.\. This answer is based on source information from National Cancer Institute. Bile is a green liquid material made by the liver and stored in the gallbladder. It surrounds and emulsifies the fat you gobbled down at last night's dinner.
bile. A bitter, alkaline, greenish fluid produced by the liver and discharged into the small intestine, where it helps to digest fats and neutralize acids. A portion of the bile secreted by the liver is stored in the gallbladder. 1. A bitter, alkaline, brownish-yellow or greenish-yellow fluid that is secreted by the liver, stored in the gallbladder, and discharged into the duodenum and aids in the emulsification, digestion, and absorption of fats. Also called gall 1. 2. Bitterness of temper; ill humor; irascibility.
Bile is a digestive fluid that is made in your liver. Your liver releases bile into your gallbladder, a small, pear-shaped organ located just below your liver in the upper right side of your abdomen. Your gallbladder concentrates and stores the bile until it is needed for digestion. Bile is a green liquid material made by the liver and stored in the gallbladder. It surrounds and emulsifies the fat you gobbled down at last night's dinner.
Overview. A biliary obstruction is a blockage of the bile ducts. The bile ducts carry bile from the liver and gallbladder through the pancreas to the small intestine (the duodenum). Bile is a dark-green or yellowish-brown fluid secreted by the liver to digest fats. Much of the bile is released directly into the small intestine, but what remains is stored in the gallbladder. After you eat, the gallbladder releases bile to help in digestion and fat absorption.
Bile is a liquid produced by the liver and stored in the gallbladder that aids in the digestion of lipids and transports waste. Bile normally drains from the liver through a number of bile ducts to the duodenum and eventually back to the bile ducts and liver. Bile is a green liquid material made by the liver and stored in the gallbladder. It surrounds and emulsifies the fat you gobbled down at last night's dinner.
Bile is a digestive juice that is secreted by the liver and stored in the gallbladder. It has two important functions 1  : Assists with fat digestion and absorption in the gut. 2  Is a means for the body to excrete waste products from the blood. 
bile. n. 1. A bitter, alkaline, brownish-yellow or greenish-yellow fluid that is secreted by the liver, stored in the gallbladder, and discharged into the duodenum and aids in the emulsification, digestion, and absorption of fats. Also called gall 1. 2. Bitterness of temper; ill humor; irascibility.