Situated in Central Otago in the lower South Island it has many great things to see and do. The breathtaking scenery is some of the best in the world and is the location for many scenes in the Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit movie trilogies. Here are the ten top things to do in Queenstown. Some are only possible in certain seasons, but put as many as you can on your list. Between May and October, Queenstown becomes a popular ski resort. There are ski fields very close to the town. With some of the best views-and some of the best snow-in New Zealand, this is something not to miss when visiting through the winter.
Queenstown sits on the shore of crystal clear Lake Wakatipu among dramatic alpine ranges; it’s rumoured that gold prospectors-captivated by the majestic beauty of the surrounding mountains and rivers-gave this now cosmopolitan town its name. Head out of Queenstown and the drama of the Central Otago landscape unfolds around you. If you’re a Lord of the Rings fan you’ll recognise many Middle-earth locations here. Nearby Arrowtown’s gold-mining history is alive and vibrant; visit the Lakes District Museum or go gold panning.
Queenstown is a natural playground providing the perfect backdrop for a range of activities all year round. If you’re looking for family fun, adrenaline-fuelled adventure, a skiing break, or romance and relaxation, Queenstown has the ideal mix of activities and attractions to keep you entertained on your visit. If you’re looking for a slightly slower pace there’s plenty of hiking and biking trails, guided tours, boat cruises, scenic flights or spa and wellness centres. And the great thing about Queenstown is that most activities can be accessed
Share: Facebook Tweet Google+. Queenstown offers visitors unlimited access to the great outdoors. You can bungee jump off Kawarau Bridge, mountain bike up steep embankments, tackle some serious powder at Coronet Peak; you can even be catapulted in a swing across a deep valley. 
Come visit Queenstown! Expedia makes it easy to book Queenstown tours and find the best attractions. We have a broad selection of things to do in Queenstown for you to browse through and learn about all the most popular activities. It’s easy to find all the must-see Queenstown sights by looking though our list of all the most popular Queenstown attractions. Whether you travel to Queenstown in the spring, summer, fall or winter, Expedia makes it simple to find endless Queenstown vacation ideas for any season. You can explore local things to do and popular tourism spots in Queenstown, then book a flight, rental car and hotel all with ease
Queenstown is one of New Zealand's top visitor destinations and if you come to the region you'll understand why. Head out of Queenstown and the drama of the Central Otago landscape unfolds around you. If you’re a Lord of the Rings fan you’ll recognise many Middle-earth locations here. Nearby Arrowtown’s gold-mining history is alive and vibrant; visit the Lakes District Museum or go gold panning.
Cruise on the century-old steamer TSS Earnslaw, ride the TranzAlpine through the spectacular Southern Alps, and visit some of the most vibrant communities... in New Zealand. Day 1:Arrive at Queenstown Airport and be picked up for your transfer to the hotel. It’s easy to find all the must-see Queenstown sights by looking though our list of all the most popular Queenstown attractions. Whether you travel to Queenstown in the spring, summer, fall or winter, Expedia makes it simple to find endless Queenstown vacation ideas for any season.
It is built around an inlet called Queenstown Bay on Lake Wakatipu, a long thin Z-shaped lake formed by glacial processes, and has spectacular views of nearby mountains such as The Remarkables, Cecil Peak, Walter Peak and just above the town; Ben Lomond and Queenstown Hill. Queenstown has an international airport with flights from Australia by Air New Zealand, Qantas, Virgin Australia and Jetstar and in particular, to Brisbane, Gold Coast, Melbourne, and Sydney (the frequency is much increased over the ski season and during summer).
World-renowned for its adventure, Queenstown is home to a huge choice of adrenaline based activities including jetboating, bungy jumping, white water rafting and skydiving – all guaranteed to get your blood pumping! If you’re looking for a slightly slower pace there’s plenty of hiking and biking trails, guided tours, boat cruises, scenic flights or spa and wellness centres. And the great thing about Queenstown is that most activities can be accessed all year round.
Escape the everyday-get yourself to Queenstown for some great deals, breathtaking landscapes and a whole load of fun. Last month we met up with the guys from the Central Otago Pinot Noir Celebration to find out a bit more on why this region is so special and sample a drop of world-class red. Find out more about summer in Queenstown-http://bit.ly/1uGlT3k. Close to 6,000 people from around the world participated in the inaugural Queenstown International Marathon. Set amongst a backdrop of awe-inspiring mountains and pristine lakes, the course took in some of Queenstowns best scenic highlights.