Initially described by Pringle in 1895, lichen planopilaris (LPP) is a cutaneous disorder selectively involving hair follicles with a lymphocytic inﬂammatory process that eventually destroys the follicles leading to expanding areas of scarring alopecia (cicatricial alopecia). Together with frontal ﬁbrosing alopecia (FFA) and the Lassueur Graham-Little Piccardi syndrome, lichen planopilaris is a form of follicular lichen planus.
Lichen planopilaris is a type of scarring hair loss that occurs when a relatively common skin disease, known as lichen planus, affects areas of the skin with hair. Lichen planopilaris destroys the hair follicle replacing it with scarring. This is distressing when it affects the scalp. 
Although lichen planopilaris is a distinct form of scarring alopecia, it can be rather difficult to diagnose with certainty. When accompanied by characteristic lesions of lichen planus on the skin and oral mucosa, lichen planopilaris is easily ascertained. Disease activity is limited to the hair-bearing periphery of cicatrized alopecia, and pustules are absent in this kind of alopecia. Features of end-stage lichen planopilaris can mimic other primary cicatricial alopecias, making it difficult to reach a proper diagnosis.
Diagnosis of lichen planopilaris cannot be made using clinical features alone, and convincing cases of lichen planopilaris include a combination of typical lichen planus lesions and scarring alopecia. Those cases presenting only as scarring alopecia of scalp require histological co-relation for convincing diagnosis. Disease activity is limited to the hair-bearing periphery of cicatrized alopecia, and pustules are absent in this kind of alopecia. Features of end-stage lichen planopilaris can mimic other primary cicatricial alopecias, making it difficult to reach a proper
Lichen planopilaris is a chronic scarring alopecia characterized by follicular hyperkeratosis, perifollicular erythema, and loss of follicular orifices. The scalp lesions may be single or multiple and commonly involve the vertex and parietal area. 
Lichen planopilaris (follicular lichen planus) is one such alopecia condition, and is classified as a primary inflammatory scarring alopecia. Classic lichen planopilaris (LPP) is a variant of lichen planus, a common skin disease that affects other areas of the body skin away fro mthe scalp. Disease activity is limited to the hair-bearing periphery of cicatrized alopecia, and pustules are absent in this kind of alopecia. Features of end-stage lichen planopilaris can mimic other primary cicatricial alopecias, making it difficult to reach a proper diagnosis.
Lichen planopilaris is a rare inflammatory condition that results in patchy progressive permanent hair loss mainly on the scalp. Three forms are recognised: 1  Classic lichen planopilaris, also known as follicular lichen planus. 2  Frontal fibrosing alopecia. The diagnosis may be confirmed on a scalp biopsy that includes hairs with surrounding redness and scale at the edge of an area of hair loss. Lichen planopilaris is an example of a primary lymphocytic folliculitis.
Lichen planopilaris. A lichen planopilaris affected human hair follicle with intense inflammation present. Lichen Planopilaris is the specific name given to lichen planus in a hair bearing region of skin (usually the scalp) that may cause permanent, scarring alopecia. In fact, up to 40% of scarring alopecia cases that a dermatologist will see are due to l
End-stage scarring alopecia (ESSA) with prior history of itching and burning, along with a receding hairline. Started as the lichen planopilaris variant, frontal fibrosing alopecia. Used with permission, rights retained, courtesy of Rashid M. Rashid, MD, PhD, Morzak Research Collaborative. Fibrosing alopecia in pattern distribution (FAPD): This also is a potential clinical variant of lichen planopilaris, with similar histologic features. Additionally, fibrosing alopecia in pattern distribution has some histologic/clinical overlap with androgenetic alopecia.
Summary. Lichen planopilaris (LPP) is a rare cutaneous variant of lichen planus (see this term) which affects hair follicles. It may occur on its own or in association with more common forms of lichen planus, usually classical type and/or oral lichen planus. The prevalence is unknown. 