The main organs of the respiratory system are the nose, pharynx, trachea, bronchi, and lungs. The respiratory system … does this through  breathing. When we breathe, we inhale oxygen and exhale carbon  dioxide. This exchange of gases is the respiratory system's means  of getting oxygen to the blood. To ensure that the body receives  enough oxygen and to expel waste, carbon dioxide.
The main organs of the respiratory system are the nose, pharynx, trachea, bronchi, and lungs. + 174 others found this useful. Kevin Leung. Edit. Confidence votes 364. The main organs in the human respiratory system are the Lungs, Trachea, Bronchi, Alveoli, Diaphragm, Nose, and mouth.
Introduction to the organs involved in the respiratory system. The respiratory system consists of a set of organs that help in breathing of air in and out of the body. They provide a passage way for air to flow in and out of the body. 
The lungs, trachea, bronchi, bronchial tubes, ribs, diaphrahm, nasal cavity, esophagus, pharnx, aveoli, nose and the mouth. The windpipe and the bronchial tubes are parts of the respiratory system. The air enters and exits through the nose and mouth. The respiratory system … does this through  breathing. When we breathe, we inhale oxygen and exhale carbon  dioxide. This exchange of gases is the respiratory system's means  of getting oxygen to the blood. To ensure that the body receives  enough oxygen and to expel waste, carbon dioxide.
Functions of Organs in Respiratory System. Respiration begins when oxygen enters into the body through the nose and the mouth. The oxygen then travels through the trachea and pharynx where the trachea divides into two bronchi. The primary function of the respiratory system is to allow the lungs to take in atmospheric oxygen through inhalation and dispose of the waste products the body does not need through exhalation. Inhalation is an active motion that causes the diaphragm to contract
Advertisement. The main function of respiratory system is to allow gas exchange (oxygen and carbon dioxide) with different parts of the body. The different organs of the respiratory system are nose, pharynx, epiglottis, larynx, trachea, bronchi and lungs. These organs carry out the process of respiration. The different organs of the respiratory system such as nose, larynx, trachea, bronchi, etc. carry out the process of respiration/breathing. All these organs play an important role in supplying oxygen to the body and allowing its smooth functioning.
The respiratory system provides oxygen to the body’s cells while removing carbon dioxide, a waste product that can be lethal if allowed to accumulate. There are 3 major parts of the respiratory system: the airway, the lungs, and the muscles of respiration. The airway, which includes the nose, mouth, pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and bronchioles, carries air between the lungs and the body’s exterior. The lungs... 
The Web's Best Sites. The human respiratory system consists of the nasal cavity, throat (pharynx), voice box (larynx), windpipe (trachea), bronchi, and lungs. Air is taken in through the mouth and the nasal cavity. The nasal passages are covered by thick mucous membranes that contain tiny hairlike projections known as cilia. 
Respiratory System. Several organs of the respiratory system are responsible for the process of breathing. The nose, pharynx, larynx, trachea, bronchi, and lungs work together to allow gas exchange to occur at the cellular level. The primary function of the respiratory system is to allow the lungs to take in atmospheric oxygen through inhalation and dispose of the waste products the body does not need through exhalation. Inhalation is an active motion that causes the diaphragm to contract