Asteroids are made of rock and metal and broken away pieces of planets. They are grouped into three categories: Stony, Iron-Nickel, and a mixture of the two. Most asteroids th … at we know about fall into the first category, and are made of Silicates. A small percentage are Iron-Nickel. The rest form the third type. 
Asteroids are made of rock, metals and other elements. Some even contain water, astronomers say. Asteroids that are mostly stone sometimes are more like loose piles of rubble. Asteroids that are mostly iron are more, well, rock-solid. 
Most asteroids circle the Sun in a broad band between Mars and Jupiter called the asteroid belt, which is about 215 million miles (345 million km) wide. The asteroids are pieces left over from when the major planets formed from small chunks of rock. An asteroid is a lump of rock that circles the Sun. Asteroids are also called minor planets. The biggest one, Ceres, is only 580 miles (930 km) across.
The inner belt, which is made up of asteroids that are within 250 million miles (402 million km) of the Sun, contains asteroids that are made of metals. The outer belt, which includes asteroids 250 million miles (402 million km) beyond the Sun, consists of rocky asteroids. 
They are made up of oxygen and silicon, the number one and number two most abundant elements in the Earth’s crust. The metallic asteroids are composed of up to 80% iron and 20% a mixture of nickel, iridium, palladium, platinum, gold, magnesium and other precious metals such as osmium, ruthenium and rhodium. But other materials have been found in asteroids, as well. Overview. Asteroids are solid, rocky and irregular bodies that are the rocky remnants of the protoplanetary disk of dust and gas that formed around our young Sun over 4.5 billion years ago.
An asteroid’s composition is mainly determined by how close it is to the Sun. The asteroids that are nearest the Sun are mostly made of carbon, with smaller amounts of nitrogen, hydrogen and oxygen, while the ones further away are made up of silicate rock. Silicates are very common on Earth and in the Solar System. But other materials have been found in asteroids, as well. Overview. Asteroids are solid, rocky and irregular bodies that are the rocky remnants of the protoplanetary disk of dust and gas that formed around our young Sun over 4.5 billion years ago.
Asteroids are made of rock and metal and broken away pieces of planets. They are grouped into three categories: Stony, Iron-Nickel, and a mixture of the two. Most asteroids that we know about fall into the first category, and are made of Silicates. A small percentage are Iron-Nickel. The rest form the third type. I believe that they are made of rocky bits left over from the formation of the inner planets. The run-of-the-mill asteroid is just one kilometer long
1 Bright S (silicaceous) asteroids and are in the inner belt, closer to Mars. 2  They tend to be metallic iron with some silicates of iron and magnesium. 3  Bright M (metallic) asteroids. 4  They sit in the middle of the asteroid belt and are mostly made up of metallic iron. But other materials have been found in asteroids, as well. Overview. Asteroids are solid, rocky and irregular bodies that are the rocky remnants of the protoplanetary disk of dust and gas that formed around our young Sun over 4.5 billion years ago.
But other materials have been found in asteroids, as well. Asteroids are solid, rocky and irregular bodies that are the rocky remnants of the protoplanetary disk of dust and gas that formed around our young sun over 4.5 billion years ago. Much of the disk coalesced to form the planets, but some of the debris remained. They are made up of oxygen and silicon, the number one and number two most abundant elements in the Earth's crust. The metallic asteroids are composed of up to 80% iron and 20% a mixture of nickel, iridium, palladium, platinum, gold, magnesium and other precious metals such as osmium, ruthenium and rhodium.