References. Type of medicine: corticosteroid. Generic and brand names: betamethasone sodium phosphate and betamethasone acetate, injection; Celestone Soluspan. This medicine is given by injection (shots) into a muscle, a joint, or a sore on the skin. It is used to reduce inflammation, irritation, and pain
Each ml CELESTONE Injection contains 5.3mg betametha-sone sodium phosphate equivalent to 4mg beta-methasone. ACTIONS CELESTONE Injection provide potent anti-inflam-matory, antirheumatic and antiallergic effects in the treatment of corticosteroid-responsive disor-ders. Glucocorticosteroids, such as betametha-sone, cause profound and varied metabolic effects and modify the body’s immune response to diverse stimuli.
1 Review. Betamethasone dipropionate is the generic name of Diprolene and Diprolene AF, used to relieve skin discomfort caused by rashes, itching, and irritation. Betamethasone comes in a topical cream, lotion, and ointment, as well as a solution for injection. It has many uses, depending on the form your doctor prescribes. Although betamethasone topical cream and lotion are used to treat irritation and inflammation of the skin, doctors prescribe the injectable form of betamethasone, Celestone Soluspan, for multiple sclerosis flares and to help mature the lungs of babies born prematurely.
What Celestone Chronodose is used for. Celestone Chronodose contains betamethasone as the active ingredient. Betamethasone is a glucocorticoid and belongs to a group of medicines called corticosteroids. Celestone Chronodose is used to treat symptoms associated with inflammatory processes and/or allergic reactions, which may include: 1  swelling. 2  redness.
INDICATIONS AND USAGE: CELESTONE Injection is indicated in the manage-ment of various endocrine, rheumatic, collagen, dermatologic, allergic, ophthalmic, gastrointesti-nal, respiratory, hematologic and other diseases known to be responsive to corticosteroid therapy. ACTIONS CELESTONE Injection provide potent anti-inflam-matory, antirheumatic and antiallergic effects in the treatment of corticosteroid-responsive disor-ders. Glucocorticosteroids, such as betametha-sone, cause profound and varied metabolic effects and modify the body’s immune response to diverse stimuli.
Treatment by Condition Related to Celestone injection. 1  Inflammation of the Nose due to an Allergy Medications. 2  Bronchitis Medications. 3  Severe Prolonged Asthma Attack Medications. 4  Contact Dermatitis Medications. 5  Blistering Skin Diseases Medications. 6  Rheumatoid Arthritis Medications. 
BETAMETHASONE (bay ta METH a sone) is a corticosteroid. It helps to reduce swelling, redness, itching, and allergic reactions. It is used to treat asthma, allergies, arthritis, Crohn's disease, and ulcerative colitis. It is also used for other conditions, like blood disorders and diseases of the adrenal glands. 
DRUG DESCRIPTION. CELESTONE® SOLUSPAN®* Injectable Suspension is a sterile aqueous suspension containing 3 mg per milliliter betamethasone, as betamethasone sodium phosphate, and 3 mg per milliliter betamethasone acetate. Inactive ingredients per mL: 7.1 mg dibasic sodium phosphate; 3.4 mg monobasic sodium phosphate; 0.1 mg edetate disodium; and 0.2 mg benzalkonium chloride as preservative.
CONTRAINDICATIONS As with other corticosteroids, Celestone Chronodose Injection is contraindicated in systemic fungal infections and in patients hypersensitive to betamethasone sodium phosphate, betamethasone acetate, other corticosteroids or to any component of this product. A150211 V7 Page 3 PRECAUTIONS Celestone Chronodose Injection should not be administered intravenously. Strict aseptic technique is mandatory. Subcutaneous injection should be avoided. Serious neurologic events, some resulting in death, have been reported with epidural injection of corticosteroids.