This type of food poisoning is caused by the. bacteria which live inside raw pork. It is not caused by the actual pork itself but by this strain of bacteria which also causes gastroenteritis. This bacterium is able to access meats such as pork, beef and lamb due to poor food hygiene and handling. When food poisoning cases are reported in the media they have often been caused by people eating infected chicken or meat. The reasons for these include food which has not been cooked according to instructions, unhygienic handling or cross contamination. This equally applies to pork
1 Trichinosis is caused by eating raw or undercooked pork and wild game infected with the larvae of a parasitic worm. 2  The contaminated meat is infected with the larvae of a worm called Trichinella spiralis. 3  The initial symptoms of trichinosis are abdominal discomfort, nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, fatigue, and fever. 
In chicken, you can get salmonella (a bacteria) from undercooked meat/eggs. In pork, it is trichinosis (type of roundworm) poisoning. Ground beef is something you want to cook well done because it's been ground up and e. coli (from fecal contamination) is more likely to be found in ground meat. I always hear &#39;&#39;raw meant can cause real bad food poisoning&#39;&#39; which is fair enough and I know that. So can half-cooked meat. So I see people at the restaurant eating red meat that&#39;s been slapped on the grill for 30 seconds and is red raw inside.
Photo Credit Olgaorly/iStock/Getty Images. Food poisoning from eating undercooked pork often comes from meat that was already infected with parasitic organisms or contaminated with bacteria during slaughter, processing or preparation. Bacteria commonly associated with pork food poisoning include Campylobacter, Escherichia coli, Salmonella, Staphylococcus aureus, Listeria monocytogenes and Yersinia enterocolitica. Campylobacter is one of most common causes of diarrhea in the U.S.
Campylobacter: Undercooked Poultry. As little as one drop of raw chicken juice can cause campylobacter illness -- a little-known illness that is the second-leading cause of food poisoning in the U.S. Symptoms can include fever, cramps, diarrhea, and vomiting. Listeria bacteria can contaminate fresh produce, like cantaloupes, as well as some processed foods, like cheeses. Symptoms of infection include fever, muscle aches, upset stomach, or diarrhea -- occurring 2 days to 2 months after exposure. Safety: Scrub raw produce and dry before cutting.
Bacterial contamination of pork can occur during production, harvesting, processing, storing, shipping or preparation. Bacteria commonly associated with pork food poisoning include Campylobacter, Escherichia coli, Salmonella, Staphylococcus aureus, Listeria monocytogenes and Yersinia enterocolitica. Campylobacter is one of most common causes of diarrhea in the U.S.
Food Poisoning from Pork. One can get food poisoning from pork because of the roundworm genus, Trichinella that is found in raw pork meat. The major symptoms of this type of food poisoning are abdominal discomfort, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, fever, and muscle pain. Advertisement. 
Pork food poisoning. You may not connect pork with food poisoning but there are a couple of types of food poisoning, one of which is known as ‘trichinosis’. The other type occurs as a result of the ‘yersinia enterocolitica’bacteria. When food poisoning cases are reported in the media they have often been caused by people eating infected chicken or meat. The reasons for these include food which has not been cooked according to instructions, unhygienic handling or cross contamination. This equally applies to pork
In the UK, campylobacter bacteria are the most common cause of food poisoning. The bacteria are usually found on raw or undercooked meat (particularly poultry), unpasteurised milk and untreated water. The incubation period (the time between eating contaminated food and the start of symptoms) for food poisoning caused by campylobacter is usually between two and five days. 