The symbol appears to be a combination of the Sun and Mars’ symbols and is sometimes associated with platinum. An alternate astrological symbol that is sometimes used for the planet shows a stylized “H” for the astronomer, William Herschel, who discovered the planet in 1781. The symbol is also used to represent the element, mercury, in medieval times. 3) Venus: A stylized hand mirror for the Roman Goddess, Venus. The Greeks associated the planet with Aphrodite and Athena, all beautiful women in mythology. It is also the symbol most would recognize denoting the female gender.
Every planet has a symbol that represents it. Some have been in use for thousands of years. The symbol for Mars represents the shield and spear of Mars, the Roman god of war. It is also the male/masculine symbol and the symbol for iron. The same symbol is used for the planet in the pseudo-science of astrology. Now that you know the symbol for Mars, you might be interested in some facts about the planet itself. If you came here looking for astrological references, please search ”junk science” in Google and you will find what you need. Now, on to Martian facts. The tallest volcano in the Solar System is on Mars.
Uranus: The sign for Uranus is a combination of two other signs – Mars’ sign and the symbol of the Sun – because the planet is connected to these two in mythology. Uranus represented heaven in Roman mythology, and this ancient civilization believed that the Sun’s light and Mars’ power ruled the heavens. Mars is named after the Roman god of war, owing perhaps to the planet’s reddish hue, which gives it the color of blood. For this reason, the symbol associated with Mars represents the god of wars’ shield and spear.
The symbol of Mars is represented by a circle with an arrow  emerging from it, pointing ut and to the right. It is inspired from  the god Mars or Ares in ancient mythology. 1 person found this useful. Edit. Share to: Jorge Quinones. 41,382 Contributions. There are things that interest me. History covers them all. The symbol for Mars is a circle with an arrow pointing out of it  upwards. This symbol represents the spear and shield of the Roman  god Mars.
Mars is the fourth planet from the Sun and the second smallest planet in the Solar System. Named after the Roman god of war, it is often described as the Red Planet, as the iron oxide prevalent on its surface gives it a reddish appearance. Mars is named after the Roman god of war. In different cultures, Mars represents masculinity and youth. Its symbol, a circle with an arrow pointing out to the upper right, represents a shield and spear. It is also used as a symbol for the male gender. 
The symbol of Mars is represented by a circle with an arrow emerging from it, pointing ut and to the right. 
Mars is associated with the Greek God Ares and known as the God of War. In astrology, Mars influences all things masculine, and filtered through its particular sign reveals how anything is pursued, from a potential sexual partner to a career. 
Arms of Karlskoga in Sweden. The Mars symbol (♂) is a depiction of a circle with an arrow emerging from it, pointing at an angle to the upper right. In old manuscripts, it is usually interpreted as the shield and spear from the war god Mars / Ares. 