The color of flames in general also depends on temperature; see flame color. The test involves introducing a sample of the element or compound to a hot, non-luminous flame, and observing the color of the flame that results. Although the flame test only gives qualitative information, not quantitative data about the proportion of elements in the sample, quantitative data can be obtained by the related techniques of flame photometry or flame emission spectroscopy. Flame Atomic absorption spectroscopy Instruments, made by e.g.
The flame test is used to visually determine the identity of an unknown metal or metalloid ion based on the characteristic color the salt turns the flame of a Bunsen burner. The heat of the flame excites the electrons of the metals ions, causing them to emit visible light. 
The flame test carried out on a copper halide. The characteristic bluish-green color of the flame is due to the copper. Different flame types of Bunsen Burner depending on air flow through the valve: 1. air valve closed. 2. air valve nearly fully closed. 3. air valve semi-opened. 4. air valve maximally opened. Although the flame test only gives qualitative information, not quantitative data about the proportion of elements in the sample, quantitative data can be obtained by the related techniques of flame photometry or flame emission spectroscopy. Flame Atomic absorption spectroscopy Instruments, made by e.g.
The Flame Test The flame test is a qualitative test used in chemistry to help determine the identity or possible identity of a metal or metalloid ion found in an ionic compound. If the compound is placed in the flame of a gas burner, there may be a characteristic color given off that is visible to the naked eye. 
Flame tests are useful because gas excitations produce a signature line emission spectrum for an element. In comparison, incandescence produces a continuous band of light with a peak dependent on the temperature of the hot object. Because each element has an exactly defined line emission spectrum, scientists are able to identify them by the color of flame they produce. For example, copper produces a blue flame, lithium and strontium a red flame, calcium an orange flame, sodium a yellow flame, and barium a green flame.
FLAME TESTS This page describes how to do a flame test for a range of metal ions, and briefly describes how the flame colour arises. Flame tests are used to identify the presence of a relatively small number of metal ions in a compound. Not all metal ions give flame colours. For Group 1 compounds, flame tests are usually by far the easiest way of identifying which metal you have got.
Answer   When a metallic ion is heated in a flame test, the heat (energy) causes an electron to be exicted to a higher energy state. When this electron returns to a … lower energy state, energy is emitted as visible light. Answer by M769670296706206. Confidence votes 93. When an electron jumps from an energy level that is farther away from the nucleus to an energy level that is closer to the nucleus the electron gives off energy. When doing a flame test this energy is in the form of a color change. One can identify the change based off of the color
A flame test is an analytic procedure used in chemistry to detect the presence of certain elements, primarily metal ions, based on each element's characteristic emission spectrum. Although the flame test only gives qualitative information, not quantitative data about the proportion of elements in the sample, quantitative data can be obtained by the related techniques of flame photometry or flame emission spectroscopy. Flame Atomic absorption spectroscopy Instruments, made by e.g.
Metals change the colour of a flame when they are heated in it. Different metals give different colours to the flame, so flame tests can be used to identify the presence of a particular metal in a sample. This is how you would carry out a typical flame test: 1  dip a clean flame test loop in the sample solution. 2  hold the flame test loop at the edge of a bunsen burner flame. Flame tests are useful for confirming the results of a precipitate test. For example, an unknown solution that produced a pale blue precipitate with sodium hydroxide solution, and a green-blue flame test, must contain a copper compound.