Share |. In a move to create 15,000 more blood donations a year, donors will now be able to continue donating after past the age of 70. The age limit for new donors will remain at 65, but existing donors who have given blood in the past two years can continue after their 70th birthday.
To ensure the safety of blood donation for both donors and recipients, all volunteer blood donors must be evaluated to determine their eligibility to give blood. The final determination will be made on the day of the donation at the blood drive or blood donation center. If you were deferred from donating in the past, you may be able to donate again. Please call 1-800-RED CROSS (1-800-733-2767) for more information. Important note to users. Blood Donors Must: 1  Be in good general health and feeling well 2  *. Be at least 17-years-old in most states, or 16-years-old with parental consent if allowed by state law – see more information for 16-year-old donors 3  ». Weigh at least 110 lbs.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The upper age limit for allogeneic blood donation varies among countries and blood operators. We assessed the impact of the removal of the upper age limit for donation in Canada from December 2004 to January 2006. 
The age limit on blood donations was raised from 65 to 70 in 1998. An age limit was put in place as a precautionary measure to ensure the safety of the donor, but recent evidence from other blood services has shown no harm to donors over the age of 70. Loyal donors. The age limit which prevents regular blood donors from continuing to give blood beyond their 70th birthday has been scrapped. The NHS's Blood and Transplant authority said it was based on the fact that older donors were healthier and fitter than in the past
How much do you have to weigh to donate blood? The minimum weight for donating whole blood is 110 lbs. There is no maximum limit. If you are female and donating double red blood cells, you must be 5 5 tall and weigh 150 lbs. if you are a male and donating double red blood cells, you must be 5 1 tall and weigh 130 lbs. How often can I donate blood? Whole blood donors may give once every 56 days in order to allow plenty of time to replenish their red cells. Double red cell donors can give every 112 days, and platelets donors can give in 1 week.
Seventeen years old is the minimum blood donor age. (In some states, 16-year-olds may donate.) Some blood centers may have an upper age limit. Please call and check with your local blood center for more information. Learn more about donor eligibility here.
New rules for blood donation permit old time blood donors to donate blood even after they touch 70 years of age. However, there is no change in the rule for donors donating blood for the first time; the age limit for new donors still remains at 65. According to NHS Blood and Transplant, the extension of age limit for blood donations came about owing to better health and fitness levels of the older lot.
Share. New rules for blood donation permit old time blood donors to donate blood even after they touch 70 years of age. It is hoped that this extension of age limit for blood donations will result in additional 15000 donations each year. This means the donors who have donated blood in the past two years can continue to donate blood even after their 70 th birthday. However, there is no change in the rule for donors donating blood for the first time; the age limit for new donors still remains at 65. According to NHS Blood and Transplant, the extension of age limit for blood donations came about owing to better health and fitness levels of the older lot.
You must weigh at least 110 lbs to be eligible for blood donation for your own safety. Students who donate at high school drives and donors 18 years of age or younger must also meet additional height and weight requirements for whole blood donation (applies to girls shorter than 5'6 and boys shorter than 5').