1 In silico PCR (digital PCR, virtual PCR, electronic PCR, e-PCR) refers to computational tools used to calculate theoretical polymerase chain reaction results using a given set of primers (probes) to amplify DNA sequences from a sequenced genome or transcriptome. In the second step, the temperature is lowered and the two DNA strands become templates for DNA polymerase to selectively amplify the target DNA. The selectivity of PCR results from the use of primers that are complementary to the DNA region targeted for amplification under specific thermal cycling conditions.
Best Answer: The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a scientific technique in molecular biology to amplify a single or a few copies of a piece of DNA across several orders of magnitude, generating thousands to millions of copies of a particular DNA sequence. 
Since PCR is, basically, replication of DNA in a test-tube, all the usual ingredients needed for DNA replication are required: A template (the DNA that is being copied) Primers (to initiate the synthesis of the new DNA strands) DNA polymerase (to carry out the synthesis) dNTPs (nucleotide precursors). · Cycling temperatures: Of the three temperatures used in a cycle of PCR, the denaturing and extension temperatures remain unchanged for the most part, since most DNA is denatured at 94-95 degrees C, and the temperature optimum for the Taq DNA polymerase lies between 72 and 74 degrees C.
The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a technology in molecular biology used to amplify a single copy or a few copies of a piece of DNA across several orders of magnitude, generating thousands to millions of copies of a particular DNA sequence. In the second step, the temperature is lowered and the two DNA strands become templates for DNA polymerase to selectively amplify the target DNA. The selectivity of PCR results from the use of primers that are complementary to the DNA region targeted for amplification under specific thermal cycling conditions.
PCR (polymerase chain reaction) is a method to analyze a short sequence of DNA (or RNA) even in samples containing only minute quantities of DNA or RNA. PCR is used to reproduce (amplify) selected sections of DNA or RNA. Previously, amplification of DNA involved cloning the segments of interest into vectors for expression in bacteria, and took weeks. But now, with PCR done in test tubes, it takes only a few hours
PCR. PCR (short for Polymerase Chain Reaction) is a relatively simple and inexpensive tool that you can use to focus in on a segment of DNA and copy it billions of times over. In most cases, 2 primers that are 20 or so nucleotides long will target just one place in the entire genome. Primers are also necessary because DNA polymerase can't attach at just any old place and start copying away. It can only add onto an existing piece of DNA.
Best Answer: Polymerase chain reaction It's a technique for amplifying a SPECIFIC gene out of an entire sample of DNA. So, instead of getting multiple copies of an entire chromosome, you get just the area you want. It works by having two primers, one for each end of the gene you want (the 5' ends on opposing strands). · just now. Report Abuse. polymerase chain reaction and that's a trick question you don't just use it on genes you can use it on any DNA including promoter and junk regions, you can even use it on RNA it allows you to do an amost infinate number of things to genes, and even more stuff to things that aren't genes.
PCR stands for Polymerase Chain Reaction, a method for amplifying DNA in vitro. Where, in cloning DNA into a plasmid, the DNA is amplified by the bacterial cell when it replicates the plasmid, PCR amplifies DNA in a test-tube. · Cycling temperatures: Of the three temperatures used in a cycle of PCR, the denaturing and extension temperatures remain unchanged for the most part, since most DNA is denatured at 94-95 degrees C, and the temperature optimum for the Taq DNA polymerase lies between 72 and 74 degrees C.
PCR primers – short DNA sequences that bind to DNA; are complimentary to beginning and end of target sequence What is needed for a PCR reaction? Taq Polymerase Polymerase copies DNA From heat loving bacteria-Thermus aquaticus. Can survive hot temperatures needed in PCR reaction. 