A. Oceanic crust is thicker and more dense than continental crust. B. Oceanic crust is thicker and less dense than continental crust. C. Oceanic crust is thinner and more dense than continental crust. D. Oceanic crust is thinn
1.The oceanic crust is made up of basalt while the continental crust is made up of granite. 2.The oceanic crust is thinner while the continental crust is much thicker. 3.The oceanic crust is denser than the continental crust. 4.The continental crust has greater buoyancy than the oceanic crust. 5.Recycling is present in the oceanic crust while this procedure is absent i
The oceanic crust is composed mainly of basalt, rich in iron and magnesium. The continental crust is composed mainly of granite, rich in aluminum. Although they are both rich … in oxygen and silicon, the rocks that compose the oceanic crust are of higher density than the rocks that compose the continental crust.
The density of the continental crust is much less as compared to the oceanic crust. It has an approximate value of 2.6 g/cm3. Due to this difference in densities in magma between the oceanic crust and the continental crust, the continents stay in their places, and both crusts are able to float on the magma.
Confidence votes 2.1K. Continental crust is actually much thicker than oceanic crust. This is because Continental crust has been formed over a much longer period of time, and especially so due to sea-floor spreading (as new crust is constantly produced).
Therefore, when it's squeezed, it will make the oceanic crust thinner. However, due to the fact that the oceanic crust is squeezed together, it makes the oceanic crust more dense. The continental crust with a density of 2.7 g/cm3 and oceanic crust with 2.9 g/cm3 (Crust Geology. Wikipedia.
Yes, that is the reason oceanic crust is at a lower elevation compared to continental crust. Oceanic crust sub-ducts under the less dense continental crust. Continental crust … is much older than oceanic crust, because oceanic crust is constantly being destroyed and created.