German name. In German, the name Ray means-Diminutive of Raymond: Counsel; mighty protection; guards wisely.. Other origins for the name Ray include-German, English, Scottish, English, French.The name Ray is most often used as a boy name or male name. German Name Meaning-Diminutive of Raymond: Counsel; mighty protection; guards wisely. Origin-German. Alternate Origins-English Scottish English French.
View the Ray Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Ray has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Ray to other names. Ray is a diminutive (nickname) of Raymond. Introduced into England by the Normans, the name Raymond is a form of the name Raginmund. It is derived from two German elements. The first ragin means advice, counsel. The second mund means protector.
Ray is a very prominent first name for men (#132 out of 1220, Top 11%) and also a very prominent surname for all people (#208 out of 150436, Top 1%). (2000 U.S. Census). Shown below is the birth name popularity of Ray for boys. Shown below is an analysis of the popularity of Ray and associated names. Prominent varying forms of Ray (#733 a year ago) rated in the Top 1000 are Raymond (#264 a year ago) , Ramon (#647) , Raymundo and Rayford.
Ray /ray/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name (also used less commonly as girls' name Ray) is pronounced ray. It is of English and Old German origin, and the meaning of Ray is protecting hands. A short form of Raymond used as an independent name in the 20th century and also in contemporary blends. See also Raynor. Singer Ray Charles; boxer Sugar Ray Leonard; author Ray Bradbury; actors Ray Liotta, Ray Romano. Shown below is an analysis of the popularity of Ray and associated names. Prominent varying forms of Ray (#733 a year ago) rated in the Top 1000 are Raymond (#264 a year ago) , Ramon (#647) , Raymundo and Rayford.
American Meaning: The name Ray is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Ray is: Grace. Latin Meaning: The name Ray is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Ray is: Radiant. French Meaning: The name Ray is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Ray is: Regal. German Meaning: The name Ray is a German baby name. In German the meaning of the name Ray is: Counsel; mighty protection; guards wisely. English Meaning: The name Ray is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Ray is: Counselor. 
Ray (girl). Ray /ray/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name (also used more generally as boys' name Ray) is of Hebrew origin, and the meaning of Ray is  ewe . Short form of Rachel; variant spelling of Rae
What does Ray mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Ray is of German origin. The meaning of Ray is counselor, protector. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is wise protector. Introduced into England by the Normans, the name Raymond is a form of the name Raginmund. It is derived from two German elements. The first ragin means advice, counsel. The second mund means
Short form of RAYMOND, often used as an independent name. It coincides with an English word meaning beam of light. Science-fiction author Ray Bradbury (1920-2012) and musician Ray Charles (1930-2004) are two notable bearers of the name. 
As a result, the term X-ray is metonymically used to refer to a radiographic image produced using this method, in addition to the method itself. Since the wavelengths of hard X-rays are similar to the size of atoms they are also useful for determining crystal structures by X-ray crystallography. 