1 allow a person with impaired capacity to speak with a support person and not continue with questioning if the person does not have the legal capacity to be questioned. 2  If police realise that a person has impaired capacity only part way through the interview, they must suspend questioning to organise a support person. 
Basically, this means that if a person is in custody and questioned without being given the warnings, everything the person says will be inadmissible in court. Miranda warnings are a list of warnings that the officer must advise, either in writing or verbally, to a person before questioning. A person can be questioned all day, as long as the person is not being subjected to custodial treatment. A person can voluntarily come to the station, be advised that he will be free to go anytime during or after questioning, and be questioned about a crime he may have committed without being warned.
You are entitled to have a record made by a court reporter or tape recorder of what has happened in the courtroom. Then, if a question later arises, you have evidence of what happened when you were in court. 1  Not guilty means you do not give up any of your rights, including the right to a trial. 2  If you are in doubt, plead not guilty. An officer who wants to ask you questions other than your name and address must advise you that you have a right not to answer the questions. ​ 1 Again, do not argue with the police. 2  Never resist your arrest. 3  Never resist the arrest of another person.
Gutin and Wolverton | Harley Gutin. Anyone can be questioned by the police. The question is can the police then use what they learn against that individual. If an officer is questioning someone in custody or under an appearance of custody then said officer has to read that person his rights. An officer should call a juvenile's parents before questioning them. The minor would not be entitled to legal counsel unless he was being interrogated while in police custody. If your child has been questioned, speak with an attorney and review the reports of such interviews to see if any Miranda or other violations occur.
The person who doesn't like answering questions in the worst case would be a fool. This question has helped me to see that incompetence, impairment, mindlessness, illiteracy and foolishness can be a rolling problem. If the person being asked the question wishes to conceal something embarrassing or otherwise inconvenient, evasive is a good fit. If they feel the questioner is overstepping a social boundary, then resentful may be what you're after. share | improve this answer.
up vote 0 down vote. If the person being asked the question wishes to conceal something embarrassing or otherwise inconvenient, evasive is a good fit. If they feel the questioner is overstepping a social boundary, then resentful may be what you're after. share | improve this answer.
1 ​Contact, by telephone or otherwise, a responsible person, to tell him or her you have been arrested and what the charges are. 2  You are not limited to one telephone call if more calls are needed to contact someone. An officer who wants to ask you questions other than your name and address must advise you that you have a right not to answer the questions. ​ 1 Again, do not argue with the police. 2  Never resist your arrest. 3  Never resist the arrest of another person.
In answer to your question What do you call a person who doesn't like questions being asked?, I think of such a person as an authoritarian, self-important, fascist, close-minded, stupid, supercilious, cross-grained, arrogant and imperious fool, dunderhead, or dictator. If the person being asked the question wishes to conceal something embarrassing or otherwise inconvenient, evasive is a good fit. If they feel the questioner is overstepping a social boundary, then resentful may be what you're after. share | improve this answer.
The person being accused is called the defendant.. In civil cases, the person making the accusations is called the plaintiff.. In criminal cases, the prosecution make the ac … cusations on behalf of the government (state). Although they are not a party to the case, the victim, or the prosecuting witness, often makes accusations as well. Edward Gibbon (The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire) says that in the conviction of any of those who were accused of being an atheist because of their Christian beliefs, t … he Roman magistrates proceeded with caution and reluctance and that they were moderate in the use of punishments.