Bile does not contain enzymes and does no digestive work. However, it is responsible for degreasing food. In other words, bile acts as a detergent and breaks down any fats or oils that are coating the food. This step is necessary so that the enzymes from the pancreas can reach the food and finish digestion. As hydrochloric acid gathers in the stomach, it becomes an acidic environment. This acidity is ideal for the activation of the protein-digesting enzyme, pepsinogen, which upon activation becomes pepsin.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Gastric acid is a digestive fluid, formed in the stomach. It is composed of hydrochloric acid (HCl) .05–0.1 M (roughly 5,000–10,000 parts per million) potassium chloride (KCl) and sodium chloride (NaCl). The acid plays a key role in digestion of proteins, by activating digestive enzymes, and making ingested proteins unravel so that digestive enzymes break down the long chains of amino acids.
Another key digestive factor is that HCl is a stimulus to pancreatic secretions, containing the majority of enzymes that actively break down foods. The poor digestion of proteins, fats, and carbohydrates then further contributes to poor assimilation and nutritional problems. A great many factors contribute to proper digestion, absorption, and utilization of the foods so needed to nourish our cells, tissues, and organs. The stomach, small intestine, liver, gallbladder, pancreas, and large intestine are primarily involved in the digestive process.
DigestMORE HCl is a comprehensive digestive enzyme formula that contains Betaine Hydrochloride (HCl). DigestMORE HCl is helpful for those who suffer from heartburn caused by low stomach acid. The long term solution for helping to eliminate heartburn in those who do not produce enough stomach acid is to take DigestMORE HCl as it has both hydrochloric acid and digestive enzymes. Digestive enzymes are catalysts for chemical reactions within the body. Without them, food is not broken down properly.
GutZyme™ Assist is a digestive supplement is perfect for people who have adequate HCL levels but want to maximize their absorption of fats, proteins, minerals and other nutrients. It includes all the same enzymes as the original GutZyme™, plus additional enzymes to assist the digestion of beans and other carbohydrates. 
Digestive enzymes and a change in the digestive pH, by taking betaine hydrochloric acid, can improve digestion and relieve painful gas and bloating. As people age, their levels of digestive enzymes decrease, so many find they need to add digestive supplements to meals. Digestive enzymes come in many forms. Also as the body ages, the amount of hydrochloric acid secreted to aid in digestion decreases. This leads to a condition known as hypochlorhydria. Hypochlorhydria begins as a gut deficiency and is one of the leading causes of gas and indigestion, and it can lead to many diseases and chronic inflammation.
Helps firm up soft stools and increases absorption of nutrients, vitamins and minerals. K9 Digestive Enzymes contains a combination of enzymes that improve digestion. Betaine HCL provides the acid to aid in the breakdown and digestion of protein. This is especially important for older dogs. 
Hydrochloric acid doesn’t actually assist in digestion but aids in the digestion process, which is why the stable form helps in both digestion and digestion preparation. Often, Betaine HCL is paired with enzymes to provide a more complete and helpful digestion like in SOLARAY’s HCL with Pepsin. Pepsin, like the others, helps with the break down of protein, specifically poultry and eggs. Bromelain helps first and foremost with the digestion of proteins. 
The gastric chief cells of the stomach secrete enzymes for protein breakdown (inactive pepsinogen, and in infancy rennin). Hydrochloric acid activates pepsinogen into the enzyme pepsin, which then helps digestion by breaking the bonds linking amino acids, a process known as proteolysis. The acid plays a key role in digestion of proteins, by activating digestive enzymes, and making ingested proteins unravel so that digestive enzymes break down the long chains of amino acids.
HCl is secreted by special cells in the stomach wall. There is always some amount of acid being produced, but acid really pours out when food enters the stomach. The HCl does not break food down; that is left up to the enzymes. Acid does prepare foods for digestion, especially proteins. 