Protists vs Bacteria. According to common biological classification, protists are classified under Kingdom Protista, while Bacteria are classified under Kingdom Monera. Unlike the cells of other organisms (plants and animals), protists and bacteria cells have very low level of cell differentiation. Due to this reason, the cells of a single individual are morphologically and functionally similar, thus reduces its adaptations and development capacity. The Bacteria are considered as unicellular prokaryotic organisms. Unlike eukaryotes, bacteria cells lack an organized nucleus, mitochondria, chloroplasts and other membrane bounded organelles. Bacterial cell has only a circular DNA, which does not associate with histone protein.
346 CHAPTER 12 Bacteria, Protists, and Fungi Types of Bacteria Two main groups of bacteria are archaebacteria (ar kee bakTIHR ee uh) and eubacteria (YOO bak tihr ee uh). Most knownarchaebacteria live in harsh environments where few kinds ofother organisms can live. Eubacteria usually live in less harshenvironments. 
Protists are microscopical, unicellular eukaryotes. They generally live in water. In some cases, protists form colonies of individuals, though the individuals are generally autonomous. (bacteria): archebacteria, eubacteria. unicellular org. prokaryotes: simple cellular organization, nucleus lacking membrane. Protista. protozoa brown, red, some green algae phycomycetes, myxomycetes, yeasts. eukaryotes: complex cellular organization, nucleus membrane-bound. Fungi. ascomycetes, basidiomycetes, etc.
The cellular organization of protists is more complex-they have a membrane-bound nucleus (and other organelles distinct from the cytoplasm)- and they are therefore called eukaryotes (true-nucleus). Animals, plants and fungi, being derived from protists, are also eukaryotes. (bacteria): archebacteria, eubacteria. unicellular org. prokaryotes: simple cellular organization, nucleus lacking membrane. Protista. protozoa brown, red, some green algae phycomycetes, myxomycetes, yeasts. eukaryotes: complex cellular organization, nucleus membrane-bound. Fungi. ascomycetes, basidiomycetes, etc.
Some protists are significant parasites of animals (e.g., five species of the parasitic genus Plasmodium cause malaria in humans and many others cause similar diseases in other vertebrates), plants (the oomycete Phytophthora infestans causes late blight in potatoes) or even of other protists. Most eukaryotic algae are autotrophic, but the pigments were lost in some groups. Other protists are heterotrophic, and may present phagotrophy, osmotrophy, saprotrophy or parasitism. Some are mixotrophic. Many protists are flagellate, for example, and filter feeding can take place where the flagella find prey. Other protists can engulf bacteria and other food particles, by extending their cell membrane around them to form a food vacuole and digest them internally, in a process termed phagocytosi
Bacteria. The Bacteria are considered as unicellular prokaryotic organisms. Unlike eukaryotes, bacteria cells lack an organized nucleus, mitochondria, chloroplasts and other membrane bounded organelles. Bacterial cell has only a circular DNA, which does not associate with histone protein.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Protist are eukaryotic, meaning they have a nucleus and membrane bound DNA complexes. Bacteria are prokaryotes without membrane bound DNA complexes or organelles. Bacteria carry their DNA in one long strand within the cells cytoplasm. They are each actually in different kingdoms the highest form of classification. Protista and Monera (bacteria's kingdom). Other kingdoms are Plant, Animal, and Fungi
Other protists include pathogenic species such as the kinetoplastid Trypanosoma brucei, which causes sleeping sickness and species of the apicomplexan Plasmodium which cause malaria. Most eukaryotic algae are autotrophic, but the pigments were lost in some groups. Other protists are heterotrophic, and may present phagotrophy, osmotrophy, saprotrophy or parasitism. Some are mixotrophic. Many protists are flagellate, for example, and filter feeding can take place where the flagella find prey. Other protists can engulf bacteria and other food particles, by extending their cell membrane around them to form a food vacuole and digest them internally, in a process termed phagocytosis
The taxonomic kingdom Protista is a collection of single-celled organisms that do not fit into any other category. Protists are a group made up of protozoa, unicellular algae, and slime molds. We will concentrate on the animal portion of this group: the protozoa (proto = first, zoa = animals). Protozoa are the oldest known group of heterotrophic life that consume and transform complex food particles into energ