Macropus is a marsupial genus that belongs to the family Macropodidae. It has 13 species which are further divided into 3 subgenera. The genus includes all terrestrial kangaroos, wallaroos and several species of wallaby. The term itself is derived from the Ancient Greek makros long and pous foot. A further 11 extinct species are recognised
Definition of MACROPUS. : the type genus of Macropodidae comprising the typical kangaroos and wallabies. ADVERTISEMENT. New Latin, from macr- + -pus. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged.
noun. 1  any large herbivorous marsupial of the genus Macropus and related genera, of Australia and New Guinea, having large powerful hind legs, used for leaping, and a long thick tail: family Macropodidae. 2  See also rat kangaroo, tree kangaroo. 1 any large herbivorous marsupial of the genus Macropus and related genera, of Australia and New Guinea, having large powerful hind legs, used for leaping, and a long thick tail: family Macropodidae. 2  See also rat kangaroo, tree kangaroo.
Members of the family Macropodidae. Includes Macropus rufus, the red kangaroo, M. foliginosus, the Western gray kangaroo and M. giganteus, the Eastern or great gray kangaroo. Large male kangaroos stand 6 ft tall and weigh up to 220 lb
• MACROPUS GIGANTEUS (noun). The noun MACROPUS GIGANTEUS has 1 sense: 1. very large greyish-brown Australian kangaroo formerly abundant in open wooded areas. Familiarity information: MACROPUS GIGANTEUS used as a noun is very rare. 
Identification. The Red Kangaroo is a large kangaroo with a body length of up to 1.4m and tail up to 1m. Males tend to be orange red in colouring while females are often blue grey. Both males and females are a lighter whitish colour underneath. 
This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. New Latin, from macr- + -pus. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged.
Macropus is a marsupial genus that belongs to the family Macropodidae. It has thirteen extant species which are further divided into three subgenera. The genus includes all terrestrial kangaroos, wallaroos, and several species of wallaby. The term itself is derived from the Ancient Greek μάκρος, makros long and πους, pous foot. A further eleven extinct species are recognised. The type species is the eastern grey kangaroo
All kangaroos are called macropods, a word derived from the Latin word, Macropus, meaning Long-footed. Rufus is the Latin for red. Red kangaroos have a reddish-brown tinge to their coats, quite different to the Grey kangaroos. 1 person found this useful. The scientific name of the red kangaroo is Macropus rufus. Macropus means big-footed and rufus means red. 2 people found this useful. Edit. Share to: On the Wallaby. One of my favourite past-times is driving and exploring with my husband (and my dog). In WikiAnswers, I am constantly On the wallaby.