Radiograph showing a bony Bankart lesion with stationary fragment at the inferior glenoid. CT scan showing a bony Bankart lesion at the antero-inferior glenoid. 3-D CT reconstruction of a bankart lesion which occurred post anterior shoulder dislocation. This subject's humerus remains mildly superiorly subluxated. Lateral view demonstrating the articular surface of the right scapula is shown. A Bankart lesion is an injury of the anterior (inferior) glenoid labrum of the shoulder due to anterior shoulder dislocation. When this happens, a pocket at the front of the glenoid forms that allows the humeral head to dislocate into it.
2. lesion-an injury to living tissue (especially an injury involving a cut or break in the skin). wound. harm, hurt, injury, trauma-any physical damage to the body caused by violence or accident or fracture etc. raw wound-a wound that exposes subcutaneous tissue. le·sion. n. Any of various pathological or traumatic changes in a bodily organ or tissue, including tumors, ulcers, sores, and wounds. tr.v. le·sioned, le·sion·ing, le·sions. To cause a lesion to form on or in.
Hill Sachs Lesion. A Hill Sachs Lesion is an injury to the humeral head. The injury is commonly caused by the dislocation of the shoulder and can interfere with the mobility of the arm. Learn how IBJI can help with shoulder pain and injuries. 1  Signs & Symptoms. 2  Treatments. 3  Pain in the Shoulder. 4  Instability in the Shoulder. 
LESION, contracts. In the civil law this term is used to signify the injury suffered, in consequence of inequality of situation, by one who does not receive a full equivalent for what he gives in a commutative contract. 2. 
Clinically Relevant Anatomy. The term 'Hill-Sachs Lesion', refers to the glenohumeral joint [link to: http://www.physio-pedia.com/Glenohumeral_Joint ], which is a synovial ball-and-socket diarthroidal joint. It is the articulation between the fossa glenoidalis of the scapula and the caput humeri. 
The Bankart lesion is named after English orthopedic surgeon Arthur Sydney Blundell Bankart (1879 – 1951). A bony bankart is a Bankart lesion that includes a fracture in of the anterior-inferior glenoid cavity of the scapula bone. Lateral view demonstrating the articular surface of the right scapula is shown. A Bankart lesion is an injury of the anterior (inferior) glenoid labrum of the shoulder due to anterior shoulder dislocation. When this happens, a pocket at the front of the glenoid forms that allows the humeral head to dislocate into it.
Hill-Sachs lesions are a posterolateral humeral head compression fracture, typically secondary to recurrent anterior shoulder dislocations, as the humeral head comes to rest against the anteroinferior part of the glenoid. It is often associated with a Bankart lesion of the glenoid. 
Hill-Sachs Lesion. This lesion is caused exclusively by anterior (toward the front) shoulder dislocations, which can result from sports activities, falls, reaching, or pulling on the arm. A Hill-Sachs lesion is a fracture in the head of the humerus bone, resulting from direct compression of the humeral head during a shoulder dislocation. 