Elements in the periodic table are grouped as metals, metalloids or semimetals, and nonmetals. The metalloids separate the metals and nonmetals on a periodic table. Also, many periodic table have a stair-step line on the table identifying the element groups. Elements just to the right of the line exhibit properties of both metals and nonmetals and are termed metalloids or semimetals. Elements to the far right of the periodic table are nonmetals. The exception is hydrogen (H), the first element on the
Definition of METALLOID. 1. : an element intermediate in properties between the typical metals and nonmetals. 2. : a nonmetal that can combine with a metal to form an alloy. See metalloid defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT. 
Metalloids are the elements found along the stair-step line that distinguishes metals from non-metals. This line is drawn from between Boron and Aluminum to the border between Polonium and Astatine. The only exception to this is Aluminum, which is classified under Other Metals. Metalloids have properties of both metals and non-metals. Some of the metalloids, such as silicon and germanium, are semi-conductors. Metalloids are the elements found along the stair-step line that distinguishes metals from non-metals. This line is drawn from between Boron and Aluminum to the border between Polonium and Astatine. The only exception to this is Aluminum, which is classified under . Other Metals 
Metalloids are the intermediate elements between metals and non metals. they possess some properties of metals and some properties of non metals. that is why they are called b … order line elements. 5 people found this useful. Answered. The metalloids can be defined as those elements which exhibit characteristics of both metals and nonmetals. They are all solids, but not lustrous, and conduct heat and electricity moderately well. The six metalloids treated here are listed below, with the atomic number and chemical symbol of each.
A metalloid is a chemical element with properties in between, or that are a mixture of, those of metals and nonmetals. There is no standard definition of a metalloid, nor is there complete agreement as to which elements are appropriately classified as such. Elements less commonly recognised as metalloids include carbon, aluminium, selenium, polonium, and astatine. On a standard periodic table all of these elements may be found in a diagonal region of the p-block, extending from boron at one end, to astatine at the other.
The metalloids or semimetals are located along the line between the metals and nonmetals in the periodic table. The metalloids are boron, silicon, germanium, arsenic, antimony, and tellurium. Polonium is often considered a metalloid, too. Properties of the Semimetals or Metalloids. The electronegativities and ionization energies of the metalloids are between those of the metals and nonmetals, so the metalloids exhibit characteristics of both classes.
n. 1. A nonmetallic element, such as arsenic, that has some of the chemical properties of a metal. Most metalloids behave as semiconductors. 2. A nonmetallic element, such as carbon, that can form an alloy with metals. adj. also met·al·loi·dal (mĕt′l-oid′l). 1. Relating to or having the properties of a metalloid. 2
Recognition status, as metalloids, of some elements in the p-block of the periodic table. Percentages are median appearance frequencies in the list of metalloid lists. The staircase-shaped line is a typical example of the arbitrary metal–nonmetal dividing line found on some periodic tables. Elements less commonly recognised as metalloids include carbon, aluminium, selenium, polonium, and astatine. On a standard periodic table all of these elements may be found in a diagonal region of the p-block, extending from boron at one end, to astatine at the other.