Health Benefits. Papayas offer not only the luscious taste and sunlit color of the tropics, but are rich sources of antioxidant nutrients such as carotenes, vitamin C and flavonoids; the B vitamins, folate and pantothenic acid; and the minerals, potassium, copper, and magnesium; and fiber. Papaya's seeds are edible, although their peppery flavor is somewhat bitter. The fruit, as well as the other parts of the papaya tree, contain papain, an enzyme that helps digest proteins. This enzyme is especially concentrated in the fruit when it is unripe. Papain is extracted to make digestive enzyme dietary supplements and is also used as an ingredient in some chewing gums
Papain is found in both papaya fruits and latex, which has been utilised for meat tenderization for one thousand years in Central America. Recent years, papain and other endopeptidases have been proven to have several medical benefits, such as defibrinating wounds and treatment of edemas (Nitsawang et al., 2006). Papaya lipase (EC. 3.1.1.3) is an important component of papaya latex that is produced by papaya plants. Papaya lipase has many advantages over the lipase produced by animals and other organisms, such as microorganisms. Papaya lipase is a naturally immobilized biocatalyst that is tightly bound to water-insoluble matrix.
Vitamin C and vitamin A, which is made in the body from the beta-carotene in papaya, are both needed for the proper function of a healthy immune system. Papaya may therefore be a healthy fruit choice for preventing such illnesses as recurrent ear infections, colds and flu. Papaya's seeds are edible, although their peppery flavor is somewhat bitter. The fruit, as well as the other parts of the papaya tree, contain papain, an enzyme that helps digest proteins. This enzyme is especially concentrated in the fruit when it is unripe. Papain is extracted to make digestive enzyme dietary supplements and is also used as an ingredient in some chewing gums
Papayas can be used many different ways. They can be eaten as is, added to a fruit salad or to a host of different recipes. One of the easiest (and most delightful) ways to eat papaya is to eat it just like a melon. Papaya's seeds are edible, although their peppery flavor is somewhat bitter. The fruit, as well as the other parts of the papaya tree, contain papain, an enzyme that helps digest proteins. This enzyme is especially concentrated in the fruit when it is unripe. Papain is extracted to make digestive enzyme dietary supplements and is also used as an ingredient in some chewing gums
Both green papaya fruit and the tree's latex are rich in papain, a protease used for tenderizing meat and other proteins. Its ability to break down tough meat fibers was used for thousands of years by indigenous Americans. It is now included as a component in powdered meat tenderizers. In some parts of the world, papaya leaves are made into tea as a treatment for malaria. Antimalarial and anti plasmodial activity has been noted in some preparations of the plant, but the mechanism is not understood and no treatment method based on these results has been scientifically proven.
The papaya is the fruit of Carica papaya which belongs to the genus Carica. The papaya is one of native plants of Central America; however, it has been planted widely in most of tropical and subtropical countries. Papaya lipase (EC. 3.1.1.3) is an important component of papaya latex that is produced by papaya plants. Papaya lipase has many advantages over the lipase produced by animals and other organisms, such as microorganisms. Papaya lipase is a naturally immobilized biocatalyst that is tightly bound to water-insoluble matrix.
In addition to milky latex, papaya is also a plant for the ripe fruit which is rich in carbohydrate, vitamins (A and C) and minerals (magnesium). Papaya fruit also contains papain which is a major component of papaya latex and widely applied for meat tenderisation. Some physical behavious (such as color and size) of papaya fruit are various due to various cultivars. To date, at least 40 cultivars of papaya are well-known and widely distributed in the world. Papaya lipase (EC. 3.1.1.3) is an important component of papaya latex that is produced by papaya plants. Papaya lipase has many advantages over the lipase produced by animals and other organisms, such as microorganisms. Papaya lipase is a naturally immobilized biocatalyst that is tightly bound to water-insoluble matrix.
Papaya is native to Central and northern South America and has become naturalized throughout the Caribbean Islands, Florida and several countries of Africa. Additional crops are grown in India, Australia, Malaysia, the Philippines, and the U.S. state of Hawaii. In some parts of the world, papaya leaves are made into tea as a treatment for malaria. Antimalarial and anti plasmodial activity has been noted in some preparations of the plant, but the mechanism is not understood and no treatment method based on these results has been scientifically proven.
The papaya is a large, tree-like plant, with a single stem growing from 5 to 10 m (16 to 33 ft) tall, with spirally arranged leaves confined to the top of the trunk. The lower trunk is conspicuously scarred where leaves and fruit were borne. In some parts of the world, papaya leaves are made into tea as a treatment for malaria. Antimalarial and anti plasmodial activity has been noted in some preparations of the plant, but the mechanism is not understood and no treatment method based on these results has been scientifically proven.