A mutation is a change in the base sequence of DNA that can affect the structure and function of proteins when they occur within a gene. Mutations can be spontaneously caused by copying errors during DNA replication or induced by exposure to external elements such as chemical mutagens, radiation or viruses. 1 Cystic fibrosis is an example of a disease which can result from a nonsense mutation (this may not be the only cause though). 2  Frameshift mutations occur when the addition or removal of a base alters the reading frame of the gene.
The counting and identification of chromosomes in the karyotype of an individual can diagnose aneuploidies, diseases caused by an alteration in the number of chromosomes in relation to the normal number in the species. 1. The name karyotype is given to the set of chromosomes of an individual, usually when visualized and identified under the microscope. The visualization generally takes place when the cells are undergoing the initial phases of cell division, so tha the chromosomes may be seen already replicated and condensed.
When using human chromosomes, to make a karyotype the chromosomes are arranged in pairs, shortest to tallest, at the very last is the sex chromosomes (XX or XY)A karyotype helps you determine mutations because you get to arrange the chromosomes in pairs. This helps you see if there is an extra copy of a chromosome, if the chromosome is 'damaged' or missing some parts, and whether or not you are missing a copy of a chromosome.You can see a karyotype of a normal male: http://www.jcvi.org/cms/fileadmin/site/research/projects/huref/figure2a.jpg.
Karyotype. A karyotype results in a picture of someone’s chromosomes, taken from a single cell. A karyotype can reveal large segments of missing or extra genetic material (e.g., in Down syndrome, there are three copies of chromosome 21; a female with Turner syndrome only has one X chromosome instead of two). 
Block mutations are changes to segments of a chromosome, resulting in large scale changes in the DNA of an organism. Block mutations are commonly caused by transposons, mobile genetic elements that can change positions within the genome and, by doing so, alter the sequence of genes. 1 Cystic fibrosis is an example of a disease which can result from a nonsense mutation (this may not be the only cause though). 2  Frameshift mutations occur when the addition or removal of a base alters the reading frame of the gene.
This type of analysis is also used in the type of DNA testing that is used in crime labs or used to determine paternity. POINT MUTATIONS, often caused by chemicals or malfunction of DNA replication, exchange a single nucleotide for another. Point mutations that occur within the protein coding region of a gene may be classified into three kinds... A. nonsense mutations: code for a stop, which can truncate the protein. B. missense mutations: code for a different amino acid. C. silent mutations: code for the same
For example, a human cell has 46 chromosomes. In the karyotype, 23 pairs of chromosomes will be shown (23 x 2 = 46). A karyotype can show different types of mutations, depending on which chromosome it affects. For example, Down Syndrome is a trisomy in chromosome 21, so there will be THREE instead of two chromosome 21s. You can research more mutations shown by chromosomes in a karyotype. 
Genetic testing is the process of using medical tests to look for changes (mutations) in a person’s genes or chromosomes. Hundreds of different genetic tests are used today, and more are being developed. Genetic testing for diseases that can be inherited Genetic testing can be used in different situations. The type of testing most often used to check for cancer risk is called predictive gene testing. It’s used to look for gene mutations that might put a person at risk of getting a disease. 
In Down's Syndrome, an individual’s cells contain a third copy of chromosome 21. This abnormality can be seen in the individual’s karyotype. MOLECULAR ANALYSIS -- Most changes in DNA, however, are too subtle to be detected by this technique and require molecular analysis. Point mutations that occur within the protein coding region of a gene may be classified into three kinds... A. nonsense mutations: code for a stop, which can truncate the protein. B. missense mutations: code for a different amino acid. C. silent mutations: code for the same
1 Silent mutations occur when the DNA change does not alter the amino acid sequence of the polypeptide. 2  This is possible because the genetic code is degenerate and certain codons may code for the same amino acid. 3  Missense mutations occur when the DNA change alters a single amino acid within a polypeptide sequence. 1 Cystic fibrosis is an example of a disease which can result from a nonsense mutation (this may not be the only cause though). 2  Frameshift mutations occur when the addition or removal of a base alters the reading frame of the gene.