Reversals: At the beginning of each accounting period, there is an accounting practice to use reversing entries to cancel out the adjusting/accrual entries that were made to accrue revenues and expenses at the end of the previous accounting period. Understand the difference between accruals and reversals. Recap the earlier discussion we had on accruals and reversals and see the comparison between these two different but related accounting concepts. Understand how the action of accruing results in reversals subsequently in the accounting cycle.
reversing entry. A journal entry made on the first day of a new accounting period to undo the accrual type adjusting entries made prior to the preparation of the financial statements dated one day earlier. 
You now create the following reversing entry at the beginning of the February accounting period. This leaves the original $18,000 expense in the income statement in January, but now creates a negative $18,000 expense in the income statement in February. But we are not done yet. Two further examples of how to use a reversing entry are: 1  Accrued revenue. 2  You accrue $10,000 of revenue in January, because the company has earned the revenue but has not yet billed it to the customer.
The reversing entry typically occurs at the beginning of a reporting period. A reversing entry is commonly used in situations when either revenue or expenses were accrued in the preceding period, and you do not want the accruals to remain in the accounting system for another period. Two further examples of how to use a reversing entry are: 1  Accrued revenue. 2  You accrue $10,000 of revenue in January, because the company has earned the revenue but has not yet billed it to the customer.
The reversal of the prior fiscal year accruals in the thirteenth financial accounting period is necessary to prevent the misstatement of the current fiscal year financial data. Asset and liability entries must be reversed with an offsetting entry to the appropriate revenue or expenditure accounts. 
Answers. Best Answer: You make reversing entries for accruals at year end. An example would be the accruals for salaries owed at year-end but not paid until early January. Let say we owe them 10,000 on December 31 (a Wednesday) but will pay them 15,000 on Friday. It could be that different people are doing both entries so they don't know what the other is doing. Without a reversing entry the journal entry would be Salaries Expense 5,000 Salaries Payable 10,000 Cash 15,000 This assumes that the person making this entry knows about the accrual. More than likely the accrual has not been make yet since it is only January 2nd.
Reversing accruals cancel the prior month’s accruals. Accrual-based accounting matches revenue and expenses to the current accounting period. Accruals accumulate until an adjusting entry is made. Reversing accruals are optional and can be implemented at any time because they do not affect the financial statements. Accruals can be used to match revenue, expenses and prepaid item
Reversing Entries. Reversing entries, or reversing journal entries, are journal entries made at the beginning of an accounting period to reverse or cancel out adjusting journal entries made at the end of the previous accounting period. This is the last step in the accounting cycle. Reversing entries are usually made to simplify bookkeeping in the new year. For example, if an accrued expense was recorded in the previous year, the bookkeeper or accountant can reverse this entry and account for the expense in the new year when it is paid.
Reversing Entries. When an adjusting entry is made for an expense at the end of the accounting period, it is necessary to keep track of this expense so that the transaction will be allocated properly between the two periods. Reversing entries are a way to handle such transactions. 
Confidence votes 4.8K. == Answer == Reversing entries are normally done to reverse accruals or estimates when the actual figures are known. Probably the most common is a reversal of a payroll accrual-at the end of Month 1, you accrue for payroll expense incurred but not yet paid (say 3 days). 