There are various ways of grilling potatoes. You might be wondering how long does it take to grill baked potatoes, how do you bake a potato on a gas grill or how do you grill cooking potatoes so they are soft inside but not burnt outside. 
Method. 1  Rub each potato with a little oil and salt, then wrap in a double layer of foil. 2  As soon as the barbecue coals are glowing red, put the potatoes directly on them. 3  Peel back the top of the foil from each potato, split open and top with a spoonful of yogurt and a few spring onion slices. Method. 1  Rub each potato with a little oil and salt, then wrap in a double layer of foil. 2  As soon as the barbecue coals are glowing red, put the potatoes directly on them. 3  Cook for 15 mins, turn with tongs, then cook for 15 mins more. 4  Remove one, unwrap and check it is cooked through.
Directions. Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Split and scoop out potato flesh. Add your choice of meat, Neely's BBQ sauce and cheese, to the potato flesh. Stuff potato shell with mixture and bake for 10 minutes or until heated through. Top with sour cream and garnish with cheese, to taste
Preparation. Wash and dry potatoes. Rub warm, soft bacon grease into the skin of each potato, covering completely. Mix the herbs together; roll each potato in herb mixture, making sure to cover completely. Puncture each potato several times. Place on hot grill in a smoker, and smoke for 1 hour at 250 deg, turning once. 
Grilling baked potatoes whole takes 30-45 minutes in foil on the grill, if the potatoes are whole. If you’re running short on time, parboil your potatoes for 10 minutes before you put them on the grill or microwave them for 3 minutes per side, and you’ll only need to grill your baked potatoes for 5-10 minutes. 
How to Bake a Potato on the BBQ Photo Credit Shizuka Blaskowsky/Demand Media. Baked potatoes are a traditional accompaniment to steaks and many other foods that you cook on your outdoor grill, and there's no need to turn on the oven in your kitchen as well as the grill in your backyard in order to make them. Step 6. Photo Credit Shizuka Blaskowsky/Demand Media. Remove the potatoes from the grill and leave them in the foil to keep them hot until the rest of your meal is ready. When you are ready to serve, remove the foil, split the potatoes and add the toppings of your choice.
How to season potatoes for the grill. Use the seasoning mixes below to flavor 1 pound of potatoes before they go on the grill (12 to 14 baby potatoes, 6 medium red-or yellow-skinned potatoes, 2 large red-or yellow-skinned potatoes, or 2 small Idahoes make a pound). 
3. Slow-Cooker Potatoes. See what to do: How To Bake a Potato in the Slow Cooker. Rub the potatoes with olive oil, sprinkle them with salt and pepper, and prick them with the tines of a fork. Wrap each potato in foil and lay it in the bottom of your slow cooker. 