The goal is to maintain a low enough grill temp so that the chicken cooks low and slow. 4 The chicken is done when you the internal temperature of the chicken pieces are 165°F for breasts and 170°F for thighs, which you test by using a meat thermometer. 
1 For grilling chicken breasts, you need a two-zone, medium-hot fire. 2  Fire up a full chimney of Kingsford ® Charcoal, or light a pile of about 100 briquets. 3  When the coals are ready, arrange them in a two-zone fire. 4  Replace the top grate, and allow the grill to heat up with all vents fully open. 1 If the grill flares up, temporarily move the chicken away from the coals. 2  When the breasts are properly browned, move them to the warm, or indirect, side of the grate. 3  Replace the lid and, if using a grill thermometer, bring the temperature up to 350°F.
Insert an instant-read thermometer in the middle of the breast—you know the chicken is done when it hits 160°F. Upon a mandatory rest off the grill, the meat temperature will continue to rise to 165°F approved by the FDA. This is all good and well if you like to play by the rules, but I personally pull the chicken even sooner, at 150°F, which results in a juicier and more flavorful breast. You really want this added protection when cooking chicken breasts and there's really no reason to skip it since the brine takes just a minute to put together, and the chicken only needs about 30 minutes of soaking, which just happens to be about the amount of time it takes to get a charcoal grill going.
Indirect Heat. Grill whole chicken and larger pieces of chicken over indirect heat for two-and-a-half to three hours -- depending on the size of the chicken -- at low to medium heat set between 230 and 250 degrees Fahrenheit. For charcoal grills, indirect heat means grilling chicken over an area not directly over the coals. Cook boneless chicken until it reaches an internal temperature of 170 degrees Fahrenheit and bone-in chicken until it reaches 18
Internal Temperature. Grill chicken until it reaches a safe internal temperature. Cook boneless chicken until it reaches an internal temperature of 170 degrees Fahrenheit and bone-in chicken until it reaches 180 degrees Fahrenheit.
By about 30 minutes the chicken should be mostly cooked and ready for sauce. If you are not going to be putting barbecue sauce on your chicken then continue cooking until the internal temperature reaches 165 degrees F. (74 degrees C.) Go to step 9 for more details. Get your grill up to temperature and then adjust the heat down to around 350 to 375 degrees F. (177 to 190 degrees C.). Now we are going to put the chicken on the grill. We want to put the larger pieces closer to higher temperature and the smaller pieces as far from the high temperature as possible.