The noun LICHEN has 2 senses: 1. any of several eruptive skin diseases characterized by hard thick lesions grouped together and resembling lichens growing on rocks. 2. any thallophytic plant of the division Lichenes; occur as crusty patches or bushy growths on tree trunks or rocks or bare ground etc. Familiarity information: LICHEN used as a noun is rare. Hypernyms (lichen is a kind of...): fungus (a parasitic plant lacking chlorophyll and leaves and true stems and roots and reproducing by spores). Hyponyms (each of the following is a kind of lichen): beard lichen; beard moss; Usnea barbata (greenish grey pendulous lichen growing on trees).
The term lichenoid reaction (or lichenoid lesion) refers to a lesion of similar or identical histopathologic and clinical appearance to lichen planus (i.e. an area which looks the same as lichen planus, both to the naked eye and under a microscope). Lichen planus (LP) is a disease of the skin and/or mucous membranes that resembles lichen. The cause is unknown, but it is thought to be the result of an autoimmune process with an unknown initial trigger. There is no cure, but many different medications and procedures have been used to control the symptoms.
A lichen is a composite organism that arises from algae or cyanobacteria (or both) living among filaments of a fungus in a symbiotic relationship. The combined life form has properties that are very different from the properties of its component organisms. Lichens come in many colors, sizes, and forms. The part of a lichen that is not involved in reproduction, the body or vegetative tissue of a lichen, is called the thallus. The thallus form is very different from any form where the fungus or alga are growing separately. The thallus is made up of filaments of the fungus called hyphae
Full Definition of LICHEN. 1. : any of several skin diseases characterized by a papular eruption. 2. : any of numerous complex plantlike organisms made up of an alga and a fungus growing in symbiotic association on a solid surface (as a rock). — li·chened \-kənd\ adjective. : any of several skin diseases characterized by the eruption of flat papules; especially: lichen planus
• LICHEN PLANUS (noun). The noun LICHEN PLANUS has 1 sense: 1. an eruption of shiny flat-topped purplish (usually itchy) papules on the wrist and forearms and thighs. Familiarity information: LICHEN PLANUS used as a noun is very rare.
li•chen. 1. any complex organism of the group Lichenes, composed of a fungus in symbiotic union with an alga, most commonly forming crusty patches on rocks and trees. 2. any of various eruptive skin diseases. 3. to cover with or as if with lichens. līchēn leichḗn ]. li′chen•ous, adj. lichen. n. 1. (Plants) an organism that is formed by the symbiotic association of a fungus and an alga or cyanobacterium and occurs as crusty patches or bushy growths on tree trunks, bare ground, etc. Lichens are now classified as a phylum of fungi (Mycophycophyta).
Lichenoid keratosis is an uncommon, benign skin condition, which typically consists of a single lesion, usually on the upper torso and the distal upper extremeties, but in some cases may appear on the head or neck. Lichenoid keratosis is divided into subtypes which are predicated on the appearance of the lesion. 