Luckenbach's population increased to a high of 492 in 1904, but by the 1960s, Luckenbach was almost a ghost town. An ad in the paper offering town-pop. 3 - for sale led Hondo Crouch, rancher and Texas folklorist, to buy Luckenbach for $30,000 in 1970, in partnership with Kathy Morgan and actor Guich Koock. Luckenbach, Texas. Luckenbach is an unincorporated community thirteen miles from Fredericksburg in southeastern Gillespie County, Texas, part of the Texas Hill Country. It consists of 9.142 acres between South Grape Creek (a tributary of the Pedernales River) and Snail Creek, just south of U.S. Highway 290 on the south side of FM 1376
HISTORY: Handbook of Texas Online : Luckenbach is a scenic community in southeastern Gillespie County with strong musical associations. The site was settled in the late 1840s and early 1850s by German farmers, among them the brothers Jacob Luckenbach and August Luckenbach. Jacob was a veteran of the Texas Revolution. LUCKENBACH TEXAS DANCE HALL: 830-997-3224; 1-888-311-8990; 412 Luckenbach Town Loop, Luckenbach/Stonewall (Gillespie), TX 78624. www.luckenbachtexas.com. Live music almost every day, dance band most Fri & Sat nights, from 9a-close.
LUCKENBACH Texas, the LUCKENBACH logo and other Luckenbach products, brands and trademarks are the property of Luckenbach Texas, Inc. Other products, brands and trademarks are property of their respective owners/companies. Any rights not expressly granted herein are reserved. According to Rob Davis, a.k.a. “Moondog,” bartender at the only bar in Luckenbach, that’s the reaction from many who visit this Hill Country hamlet-cum-music venue made famous by Waylon Jennings’ 1977 hit “Luckenbach, Texas (Back to the Basics of Love).” read more ».
Luckenbach, TX is a unique real estate market. Find listings of homes for sale, apartments for rent, available condos, and determine the price of rent, a mortgage, or a lease. 
Luckenbach is an unincorporated community thirteen miles (19 km) from Fredericksburg in southeastern Gillespie County, Texas, United States, part of the Texas Hill Country. Luckenbach is known as a venue for country music. Today Luckenbach maintains a ghost-town feel with its small population and strong western aesthetic. One of its two main buildings houses the remnants of a post office, a working saloon, and a general store. The other is the dance hall.
View Luckenbach Realtors listings, search Luckenbach home prices to check home values in Luckenbach, TX, find Luckenbach Realtors and try the Home Sale Maximizer home improvement tool on HomeGain to see top home improvement recommendations that will increase your property values in Luckenbach, TX. 
Luckenbach's population increased to a high of 492 in 1904, but by the 1960s, it was almost a ghost town. A newspaper advertisement offering town — pop. 3 — for sale led Hondo Crouch, a rancher and Texas folklorist, to buy Luckenbach for $30,000 in 1970, in partnership with Kathy Morgan and actor Guich Koock. Today Luckenbach maintains a ghost-town feel with its small population and strong western aesthetic. One of its two main buildings houses the remnants of a post office, a working saloon, and a general store. The other is the dance hall.
This location is roughly 50 miles (80 km) north of San Antonio and 69 miles (111 km) west of Austin. The Luckenbach website lists 412 Luckenbach Town Loop, Fredericksburg, TX 78624 as the physical address for GPS navigation. Today Luckenbach maintains a ghost-town feel with its small population and strong western aesthetic. One of its two main buildings houses the remnants of a post office, a working saloon, and a general store. The other is the dance hall.
Waylon Jennings and Willie Nelson memorialized Luckenbach, Texas, in song, but the area's history goes back much farther than these country singers. Luckenbach was one of the regions first settled in 1849 by German nobility looking to establish a colony in the New World. In Luckenbach, Texas, homes for sale are typically farm land, ranch land, or other historic properties. Feel free to ask us any questions you may have at sign up. Once you sign up we will provide you with a free access password so you can come back and search for homes for sale in Luckenbach Texas at your leisure.