Pepsin is expressed as a pro-form zymogen, pepsinogen, whose primary structure has an additional 44 amino acids. In the stomach, chief cells release pepsinogen.epsin is most efficient in cleaving peptide bonds between hydrophobic and preferably aromatic amino acids such as phenylalanine, tryptophan, and tyrosine.
Pepsin is a digestive protease, a member of the aspartate protease family. Pepsin is one of three principal protein-degrading, or proteolytic, enzymes in the digestive system, the other two being chymotrypsin and trypsin. The three enzymes were among the first to be isolated in crystalline form.epsin is most efficient in cleaving peptide bonds between hydrophobic and preferably aromatic amino acids such as phenylalanine, tryptophan, and tyrosine.
Pepsin is an enzyme whose zymogen (pepsinogen) is released by the chief cells in the stomach and that degrades food proteins into peptides. Pepsin is most efficient in cleaving peptide bonds between hydrophobic and preferably aromatic amino acids such as phenylalanine, tryptophan, and tyrosine.
Protein digestion occurs in the stomach and duodenum in which 3 main enzymes, pepsin secreted by the stomach and trypsin and chymotrypsin secreted by the pancreas, break down food proteins into polypeptides that are then broken down by various exopeptidases and dipeptidases into amino acids.igestion is the breakdown of large insoluble food molecules into small water-soluble food molecules so that they can be absorbed into the watery blood plasma.
Pepsin. Definition. noun, plural: pepsins or pepsine. A proteolytic enzyme in the gastric juice of birds, reptiles, fish, and mammals that partially digest dietary proteins into simpler, shorter chains of amino acids such as proteoses and peptones in the presence of hydrochloric acid. Supplement. Supplement. Pepsin is capable of digesting many proteins from the food except protamine, keratin, and other highly glycosylated proteins. It is converted from pepsinogen that is released from the gastic pits of the stomach.
pepsin-an enzyme produced in the stomach that splits proteins into peptones. pepsinogen-precursor of pepsin; stored in the stomach walls and converted to pepsin by hydrochloric acid in the stomach.phosphatase-any of a group of enzymes that act as a catalyst in the hydrolysis of organic phosphates. fibrinolysin, plasmin-an enzyme that dissolves the fibrin of blood clots.oun. 1. enzyme-any of several complex proteins that are produced by cells and act as catalysts in specific biochemical reactions. active site-the part of an enzyme or antibody where the chemical reaction occurs.
pepsin. a proteolytic enzyme that is the principal digestive component of gastric juice. It acts as a catalyst in the chemical breakdown of protein to form a mixture of polypeptides; it is formed from pepsinogen in the presence of acid or, autocatalytically, in the presence of pepsin itself. Pepsin also has milk-clotting action similar to that of rennin and thereby facilitates the digestion of milk protein
An inactive enzyme released by the parietal cells in the gastric pits of stomach. Supplement. Pepsinogen is converted to pepsin by autocatalysis resulting in the cleaving of the excess amino acids in the presence of hydrochloric acid that creates an acidic gastric environment. Its release is mediated by the stimulatory action of the vagus nerve and gastrin when food is ingested. See also: 1  pepsin.
pepsin. pepsin, enzyme produced in the mucosal lining of the stomach that acts to degrade protein. Pepsin is one of three principal protein-degrading, or proteolytic, enzymes in the digestive system, the other two being chymotrypsin and trypsin. The three enzymes were among the first to be isolated in crystalline form. More on pepsin from Infoplease: 1  pepsin: meaning and definitions-pepsin: Definition and Pronunciation. 2  pepsinate: meaning and definitions-pepsinate: Definition and Pronunciation. 3  gastric juice: meaning and definitions-gastric juic