The Hepatitis B Virus. The Hepatitis B virus (HBV) is a mostly double-stranded DNA virus in the Hepadnaviridae family. One of five hepatitis viruses, HBV causes acute and chronic hepatitis in humans. The unusually packaged may indicate that the method of replication employed by HBV is not of conserved DNA replication (Garces, HBVP). HBV Genome. Life Cycle: In order to reproduce, the hepatitis B virus, must first attach onto a cell which is capable of supporting its replication.
The hepatitis B viruses cannot be spread by holding hands, sharing eating utensils, kissing, hugging, coughing, sneezing, or breastfeeding. The infection can be diagnosed 30 to 60 days after exposure. Diagnosis is typically by testing the blood for parts of the virus and for antibodies against the virus. It is one of five known hepatitis viruses: A, B, C, D, and E. In those who get infected around the time of birth 90% develop chronic hepatitis B while less than 10% of those infected after the age of five do. Most of those with chronic disease have no symptoms; however, cirrhosis and liver cancer may eventually develop.
HBV Life Cycle. HBV Particle Types: The hepatitis B virion, also known as the Dane particle, is the one infectious particle found within the body of an infected patient. This virion has a diameter of 42nm and its outer envelope contains a high quantity of hepatitis b surface proteins. The unusually packaged may indicate that the method of replication employed by HBV is not of conserved DNA replication (Garces, HBVP). HBV Genome. Life Cycle: In order to reproduce, the hepatitis B virus, must first attach onto a cell which is capable of supporting its replication.
Hepatitis B is an infectious liver disease. It is caused by the hepatitis B virus (HBV). Infections of hepatitis B occur only if the virus is able to enter the blood stream and reach the liver. Once in the liver, the virus reproduces and releases large numbers of new viruses into the bloodstream. To combat the disease, the body has several defenses.
Hepatitis B is an infectious disease caused by the hepatitis B virus (HBV) which affects the liver. In those who get infected around the time of birth 90% develop chronic hepatitis B while less than 10% of those infected after the age of five do. Most of those with chronic disease have no symptoms; however, cirrhosis and liver cancer may eventually develop.
In this article. Hepatitis B is an infection of your liver. It can cause scarring of the organ, liver failure, and cancer. It can be fatal if it isn’t treated. It’s spread when people come in contact with the blood, open sores, or body fluids of someone who has the hep B virus. 
The hepatitis B infection occurs in adolescents and adults and can leadto acute hepatitis, subclinical infection, or the development of chronic infection. The incubation period ranges from 45–160 days, with an average of 75 days, followedby an insidious onset of acute disease (Figure 2). Figure 2. 
Hepatitis D (HDV) can occur only with a concomitant hepatitis B infection, because HDV uses the HBV surface antigen to form a capsid. Co-infection with hepatitis D increases the risk of liver cirrhosis and liver cancer. Polyarteritis nodosa is more common in people with hepatitis B infection. In those who get infected around the time of birth 90% develop chronic hepatitis B while less than 10% of those infected after the age of five do. Most of those with chronic disease have no symptoms; however, cirrhosis and liver cancer may eventually develop.
What is hepatitis B? Hepatitis B is a contagious liver disease caused by the hepatitis B virus. It can cause either acute or chronic illness. Acute hepatitis B is a newly acquired infection that causes illness within six months or less of exposure to the hepatitis B virus. Chronic hepatitis B results from the hepatitis B virus remaining in the body for six months or more. Death from chronic liver disease or liver cancer occurs in 15-25% of chronically infected people. How lon g is a person able to spread hepatitis B? Hepatitis B is present before symptoms appear and while symptoms are present. Persons with the hepatitis B virus in their blood can spread hepatitis B to others.