Nights: Rosemount-Discover Kippford's Secret Coast on the Scottish Riviera. A relaxing & comfortable waterfront Guest House in the picturesque sailing village of Kippford, with stunning views, quietly tucked away on the sleepy Solway Coast in Dumfries & Galloway, South West Scotland. 
Perhaps the biggest change occurred in 1870, when a post office was established a few doors south of the Anchor Hotel. Despite the village's name of Scaur, the post office became known as Kippford (presumably due to the fact that the river could be forded here and the land was owned by the Kipp Estate). As often happened at the time, the name of the village gradually changed to reflect that of its post office. This dark age hillfort overlooks the Urr Estuary and is thought to have been occupied for up to 300 years until being destroyed by fire in the 700s. It is said to be named after Mark, King of Dumnonia, and links have been made with the story of Tristan and Isolde and with the legends of King Arthur.
Today's Kippford is a bustling place. You are strongly advised to park in one of the car parks at the northern end of the village, where the road into the village meets the sea, and walk the remaining few hundred yards into the heart of Kippford. This dark age hillfort overlooks the Urr Estuary and is thought to have been occupied for up to 300 years until being destroyed by fire in the 700s. It is said to be named after Mark, King of Dumnonia, and links have been made with the story of Tristan and Isolde and with the legends of King Arthur.
“A haven of peace and tranquility” ”The views are incredible, most beautiful”. A warm welcome to Roughfirth House Bed & Breakfast in the popular yachting village of Kippford, Dumfries & Galloway. Roughfirth House is idyllically situated on a private road lined with beautiful gardens and cockle shell beaches. With its shoreline location and wall-to-wall windows it has some of the most breathtaking coastal views in South West Scotland. The ideal base for walkers, birdwatchers, nature lovers, garden lovers, golfers, stargazers, photographers and other artists. Roughfirth House is ideally located for discovering the whole of Dumfries & Galloway and is perfect for anyone who simply wants to unwind and relax amongst stunning scenery.
Welcome to the Mariner Hotel, Bar & Restaurant, Kippford. The Mariner Hotel, Bar and Restaurant is situated in the picturesque village of Kippford on south-west Scotland’s stunning Colvend Coast. It offers the perfect base for exploring this beautiful corner of Dumfries and Galloway. The Solway Yacht Club's Regatta is held within view of the Mariner; their clubhouse, pier and moorings, are adjacent to the Mariner. Whether you arrive by car or by yacht, you’ll receive a warm welcome at The Mariner Hotel in Kippford.
This is why you should visit Kippford in Dumfries & Galloway. Three miles south of Dalbeattie, a right hand turn down a small side road leads you to the unspoilt waterside village of Kippford, regarded by many as being the loveliest seaside village in the whole of South West Scotland. We are open throughout the year and my team and I will do all we can to make your stay memorable. If you are looking for a relaxing stay in an area of natural beauty then this part of South West Scotland is perfect for you. To check room availability and rates just give us a call on 01556 620205 or check online.
Three miles south of Dalbeattie, a side road turns west and leads you the extra mile along the cul-de-sac road to Kippford. This narrow village runs along the shore of the Urr Estuary and is in places just a single building wide, closely crowded in on the landward side by the wooded slopes of Mark Hill. This dark age hillfort overlooks the Urr Estuary and is thought to have been occupied for up to 300 years until being destroyed by fire in the 700s. It is said to be named after Mark, King of Dumnonia, and links have been made with the story of Tristan and Isolde and with the legends of King Arthur.
Kippford, with it’s original white washed shipwrights cottages lining the shore, is a popular holiday and sailing village that stretches along the banks of the Urr Water. Originally know as Scaur, it is home to the Solway Yacht Club who hold a sailing regatta and cadet week here annually. The yacht club pontoon and vessels moored in the estuary are a modern reminder of Kippford’s boatbuilding heritage. Kippford is backed by the forested Mark Hill, known locally as the Muckle, with a network of paths that link with Rockcliffe a 1 mile walk across land managed and maintained by the Scottish National Trust.