Climate Average daytime temperatures range from 24 C/75 F to 30 C/87 F. Driest season is December to May. The coolest month occur between November and February. Currency Canouan uses the local Eastern Caribbean Dollars (EC$). 
The numbers allow you to compare typical December daily high and low temperatures for the 33 largest Canadian cities, ranging from St John's, Newfoundland in the east to Victoria, British Columbia in the west. These are all the metropolitan areas that, according to Statistics Canada, had at least 100,000 people in 2011. Average Temperatures in December for Canadian Cities. Average temperatures for December at major cities across Canada are listed below in degrees Celsius and Fahrenheit.
The average temperature at caribou of 12.9 degrees was 5.3 degrees below the 1981-2010 average temperature. There were only 9 days with an average temperature that was above normal, and there were no days with a high temperature above freezing after the 6th. It was the coldest December since 1989. At Bangor, the average temperature of 18.8 degrees was 5.8 degrees below average. It was also the coldest December since 1989. 
Canouan (pronounced can-ah-wan) is an island in the Grenadines Islands belonging to St Vincent. It is a small island, measuring only 3.5 miles (5.6 km) by 1.25 miles (2 km). The population is about 1,200 people. A barrier reef runs along the Atlantic side of the island. 
Averages for Cancun in December. Weather lowdown. December is a very cool time to visit Cancun, Mexico, when the average temperature is 24°C, created by highs of 28°C at the hottest part of the day, cooling down to 21°C after sunset. During this winter month, the resort enjoys eight hours of sunshine each day and an average sea temperature of 27°C. With 109mm of rainfall over five days, there is a small chance you’ll experience a shower during your holiday.
Typical Weather in December. December temperatures in the Caribbean range from an average low of 73.3 degrees to an average high of 82.9 degrees. Rain occurs in the Caribbean a total of 11.4 days during an average December. Total precipitation during the month averages 3.7 inches. Bear in mind, however, that all precipitation, no matter how slight, is considered in the tables on this page.
The most important weather conditions to be aware of are: * 1  Average temperatures. * 2  Average high and low temperatures. * 3  Average rainfall. * 4  Average sea temperatures. * 5  Average number of sunshine hours. * 6  Average number of fog days. * 7  Average number of snow days. 
Temperature. Caribbean temperatures during December are slightly cooler than in previous months. The Bahamas and Cuba in the northern Caribbean have the most noticeable decline in heat. Ocean temperatures this month average 79 degrees Fahrenheit in the Bahamas and 81 °F around most islands to the south. Information on the weather in December for cities and beach towns throughout the Caribbean has been pulled together here. The December temperatures and rainfall given in the table below allow you to compare the climate for places on two dozen islands. The monthly averages are based on historical weather records. These temperatures are in degrees Fahrenheit. You can also view the temperatures in degrees Celsius