A pregnancy that occurs with ParaGard ® in place is more likely to be ectopic than a pregnancy in the general population. However, because ParaGard ® prevents most pregnancies, women who use ParaGard ® have a lower risk of an ectopic pregnancy than sexually active women who do not use any contraception.
The Paragard IUD is very effective when a woman is attempting to prevent pregnancy and is one of the most effective birth control methods on the market. They are 99.9% affective and can even prevent pregnancy after unprotected intercourse.
However, if you become pregnant while your IUD is in place, the risk that you will have an ectopic pregnancy is higher. That risk ranges from 6% to as high as 50%. There is always the possibly that an infection can occur in women who have IUDs.
Risks. Less than 1 percent of women who use ParaGard will get pregnant in the first year of typical use. If you do conceive while using ParaGard, you're at higher risk of an ectopic pregnancy — when the fertilized egg implants outside the uterus, usually in a fallopian tube.
My doctor told me that if you do manage to get pregnant with the iud inserted, there are several things that could happen. The IUD raises your risk for ectopic pregnancy, so as soon as you test positive you need to get to the doctor so they can make sure that it is not stuck in your fallopian tube. If left untreated, an ectopic pregnancy can kill you, if it ruptures. You may also have to have that fallopian tube removed if that is the case.
If you're one of the nearly six percent of American women on contraception who use the IUD (intrauterine device) Mirena or ParaGard, you might be wondering how can you get pregnant, and how soon can you get pregnant, after having the IUD removed.
1 This is a highly effective type of birth control. 2  The Copper T IUD does not contain hormones or interact with medicines. 3  You don t have to think about birth control every day or every time you have sex. 4  If you decide you want to get pregnant, you can have the IUD easily removed at any time.
However, it is important to note that the process of removing the IUD can also cause a miscarriage -- though the risk of miscarriage is lower if you have the IUD removed as soon as a pregnancy is confirmed, the risk is still higher than that of women without an IUD.