Pulmonology is a medical specialty that deals with diseases involving the respiratory tract. The term is derived from the Latin word pulmō, pulmōnis (lung) and the Greek -λογία, -logia. A common example being the usage of inhalers in the treatment of inflammatory lung conditions such as asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Oxygen therapy is often necessary in severe respiratory disease (emphysema and pulmonary fibrosis).
Pulmonologist Overview. A pulmonologist, or pulmonary disease specialist, is a physician who possesses specialized knowledge and skill in the diagnosis and treatment of pulmonary (lung) conditions and diseases. Pulmonology is classified as an internal medicine subspecialty. 
Pulmonology is known as chest medicine and respiratory medicine in some countries and areas. Pulmonology is considered a branch of internal medicine, and is related to intensive care medicine. Pulmonology often involves managing patients who need life support and mechanical ventilation. A common example being the usage of inhalers in the treatment of inflammatory lung conditions such as asthma or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Oxygen therapy is often necessary in severe respiratory disease (emphysema and pulmonary fibrosis).
Pediatric pulmonologists often treat children with the following conditions: 1  Chronic cough. 2  Difficulty breathing. 3  Recurring pneumonia (infection of the lungs). 4  Asthma (chronic inflammation of the airways). 5  Cystic fibrosis (a genetic disease with pulmonary and nutritional symptoms). Article Body. If your child has breathing problems, or a problem with his or her lungs, a pediatric pulmonologist has the experience and qualifications to treat your child.
Pulmonologist. A pulmonologist is a doctor who specializes in treating diseases of the lungs, such as lung cancer, COPD, and tuberculosis. With cancer, a pulmonologist aids in diagnosis and treatment. They are also called pulmonary specialists. Many types of doctors are involved in diagnosing and treating lung cancer. Your primary care doctor may refer you to various specialists whose titles may be unfamiliar to you. Here are a few types of specialists you may meet and the roles they play in lung cancer
A pulmonologist, or pulmonary disease specialist, is a physician who possesses specialized knowledge and skill in the diagnosis and treatment of pulmonary (lung) conditions and diseases. Thank you for using ChaCha! [ Source: http://www.chacha.com/question/what-does-a-pulmonary-doctor-do ]. http://answers.ask.com/Health/Other/what_is_a_pulmonary_doctor. Pulmonology is the study of the lungs and respiratory track. A Pulmonologist is a doctor who specializes in the treatment and diagnosis of lung conditions and diseases. When first visiting a Pulmonologist they will need to know your family ..
Diseases treated by pulmonologists include asthma, bronchitis, sleep apnea, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), pneumonia, chest infections, cystic fibrosis, and many other diseases and conditions. Pulmonary medicine, also known as chest or respiratory medicine, is an Internal Medicine subspecialty. Pulmonologists must first become board certified in Internal Medicine before becoming certified in Pulmonology. Pulmonologists are physicians who diagnose and treat diseases and disorders of the lungs and respiratory system. There is a diverse array of conditions that can affect the lungs, and many, such as asthma, are quite common. Lung disease affects more than 35 million Americans.