How to Do a Scottish Accent. Learn how to do a Scottish accent from voice and speech coach Andrea Caban in this Howcast video. Here are some tips for a general Scottish accent. The first thing we look at is the oral posture
Scottish English refers to the varieties of English spoken in Scotland. The main, formal variety is called Scottish Standard English or Standard Scottish English (SSE). Scottish Standard English may be defined as the characteristic speech of the professional class [in Scotland] and the accepted norm in schools. Scottish English results from language contact between Scots and the Standard English of England after the 17th century.
Scots is the Germanic language variety spoken in Lowland Scotland and parts of Ulster (where the local dialect is known as Ulster Scots). Scots is a contraction of Scottis, the Older Scots and northern version of late Old English Scottisc (modern English Scottish), which replaced the earlier i-mutated version Scyttisc.
Scottish English may be influenced to varying degrees by Scots. Many Scots speakers separate Scots and Scottish English as different registers depending on social circumstances. Some speakers code switch clearly from one to the other while others style shift in a less predictable and more fluctuating manner. Scottish English results from language contact between Scots and the Standard English of England after the 17th century.
We change our accents, often without noticing, as we have new life experiences. How accurate people are in knowing about you from your accent depends not only on the features of your accent, but also on who the listener is, and what they know about the other people who speak with a similar accent to you. Your accent results from how, where, and when you learned the language you are speaking and it gives impressions about you to other people. People do not have a single fixed accent which is determined by their
Scottish Dialect. Major regions in Scotland (e.g. Aberdeen, Ayrshire, Glasgow, Edinburgh, Fife, Inverness) have their own distinct accents and dialect words. See, for example, the Glasgow Patter books by Michael Munro (Holmes McDougall, Glasgow). Many older words survive thanks to the poetry of Robert Burns and others. 
This advice video is a extremely helpful time-saver that will enable you to get good at accents. Watch our tutorial on How To Have A Scottish Accent from one of Videojug's industry leaders. Subscribe! http://www.youtube.com/subscription_c... Check Out Our Channel Page: http://www.youtube.com/user/videojug. 
Convention traces the influence of the English of England upon Scots to the 16th-century Reformation and to the introduction of printing. Printing arrived in London in 1476, but the first printing press was not introduced to Scotland for another 30 years. Scottish English results from language contact between Scots and the Standard English of England after the 17th century.
Readers Nick and Riela have both written to ask how and when English colonists in America lost their British accents and how American accents came about. There are many, many evolving regional British and American accents, so the terms “British accent” and “American accent” are gross oversimplifications. What most people think of as an American accent, or most Americans think of as no accent, is the General American (GenAm) accent, sometimes called a newscaster accent or Network English..