When grown outdoors, petunias only need watering about once a week. Indoors, these plants need more frequent watering. Check the surface of the soil once a day and water your plants with room-temperature water if the soil feels dry. Give the surface soil time to dry completely before you water your petunias again. Soil. Petunias grow well in almost any type of soil as long as the medium has good drainage. Make sure your petunia's container has a sufficient number of drainage holes to allow the excess water to escape. You could add a little peat moss to the soil to help your indoor plants better retain nutrients and moisture.
How to Grow Petunias Indoors. Select a container that has sufficient holes for draining. Choose grandiflora, multiflora or milliflora petunia varieties over groundcover brands. Fill container two-thirds full with a 50-50 mix of potting soil and compost. Water as necessary. Petunias like soil that is moist to slightly dry. Deadhead by removing spent blooms as necessary to promote new buds and encourage continuous blooming. Feed once a month with a balanced liquid fertilizer (8-8-8 or 10-10-10).
Indoor Petunia Varieties. Of the many petunia varieties, some are more suitable for growing indoors than others. Multiflora petunias are compact varieties that bear 1 1/2- to 3-inch flowers. Milliflora petunias are miniature plants covered with 1- to 1 1/2-inch flowers. Soil. Petunias grow well in almost any type of soil as long as the medium has good drainage. Make sure your petunia's container has a sufficient number of drainage holes to allow the excess water to escape. You could add a little peat moss to the soil to help your indoor plants better retain nutrients and moisture.
Transplant your petunias once the sprouts have leaves. Leaves can take several weeks to develop. Indoors, plant several plants together, several inches a part in one large container, if desired. Keep plants in an area of the home that receives about six hours of sunlight. However, since petunias are annuals, this will need to be done each year, which can add up financially over the years. You can plant seeds that are much less expensive and then transplant the petunias to the outdoors when they're ready. Or you can continue to grow them indoors.
Place petunia plants in the container on the soil and water lightly prior to filling container with soil. Cover the base of the petunia plants with remaining soil, slightly packing to ensure the root system is not exposed to air. Place in a spot where the petunias can receive at least five hours of sunlight a day. Direct, full sun is best. Water as necessary. Water as necessary. Petunias like soil that is moist to slightly dry. Deadhead by removing spent blooms as necessary to promote new buds and encourage continuous blooming. Feed once a month with a balanced liquid fertilizer (8-8-8 or 10-10-10).
Planting petunias is easiest when they are purchased as a mature plant that is ready plant outdoors or to be kept indoors. However, since petunias are annuals, this will need to be done each year, which can add up financially over the years. You can plant seeds that are much less expensive and then transplant the petunias to the outdoors when they're ready. Or you can continue to grow them indoors. Start this process in March or April
1 You can grow petunias from seeds, but it is easier to grow them from transplants. 2  If you are going to grow from seeds, start them indoors 10 to 12 weeks before you want to set them outside. 3  Petunia seeds are very small and needs lots of light in order to germinate. 4  Remember to water them. 1 If you are going to grow from seeds, start them indoors 10 to 12 weeks before you want to set them outside. 2  Petunia seeds are very small and needs lots of light in order to germinate. 3  Remember to water them. 4  When the plants have three leaves, you can plant them outside.
Sow your Wave petunia seed into a moistened germination media or potting soil. Petunias benefit from light for best germination, therefore do not cover the seeds. Place the tray in a warm and bright location. Fluorescent lights are suitable for a light source, both for germination and for growing on. 