These reactions require energy. One way of categorizing metabolic processes, whether at the cellular, organ or organism level, is as anabolic, or as  catabolic  which is the opposite. Anabolism is powered by catabolism, where large molecules are broken down into smaller parts and then used up in respiration. Many anabolic processes are powered by the hydrolysis of adenosine triphosphate (ATP). The balance between anabolism and catabolism is also regulated by circadian rhythms, with processes such as glucose metabolism fluctuating to match an animal's normal periods of activity throughout the day.
Nutrients and tissues are broken down (catabolism), releasing energy which is utilized in the creation of new substances for growth and rebuilding (anabolism). metabolite any substance produced by a metabolic process. See also energy systems. 
ATP not only provides energy to your cells, it also allows anabolic processes to occur. Anabolism is the reverse of catabolism, since these reactions build large biomolecules from smaller ones. And the molecules that are produced are the same types as what you find in food, such as carbohydrates and proteins. In a sense, these molecules are like your body's own version of the food it originally came from
Nutrients and tissues are broken down (catabolism), releasing energy which is utilized in the creation of new substances for growth and rebuilding (anabolism). metabolite any substance produced by a metabolic process. See also energy systems. anabolism. [ənab′əliz′əm]. Etymology: Gk, anaballein, to build up. the constructive phase of metabolism characterized by the conversion of simple substances into the more complex compounds of living matter. Compare catabolism. anabolic, adj.
The definition of anabolism is a process in a plant or animal where food is changed into living tissue. An example of anabolism is bone growth. the process in a plant or animal by which food is changed into living tissue; constructive metabolism. 
Definition of ANABOLISM. : the constructive part of metabolism concerned especially with macromolecular synthesis — compare catabolism. — an·a·bol·ic \ˌa-nə-ˈbae-ˈbä\ lik. Adjective see anabolism defined for. KIDS. advertisement : the constructive part of metabolism concerned especially with macromolecular synthesis — compare catabolism. — an·a·bol·ic \ˌa-nə-ˈbae-ˈbä\ lik. Adjective see anabolism defined for. kids
Medical Definition of ANABOLISM. : the constructive part of metabolism concerned especially with macromolecular synthesis—compare catabolism. : the constructive part of metabolism concerned especially with macromolecular synthesis — compare catabolism. — an·a·bol·ic \ˌa-nə-ˈbae-ˈbä\ lik. Adjective see anabolism defined for. kids
anabolism. n. 1. (Biochemistry) a metabolic process in which complex molecules are synthesized from simpler ones with the storage of energy; constructive metabolism. Compare catabolism. anabolism-the synthesis in living organisms of more complex substances (e.g., living tissue) from simpler ones together with the storage of energy. constructive metabolism. assimilation, absorption-the process of absorbing nutrients into the body after digestion.
Definition of CATABOLISM. : degradative metabolism involving the release of energy and resulting in the breakdown of complex materials (as proteins or lipids) within the organism — compare anabolism. — cat·a·bol·ic \ˌka-tə-ˈbae-ˈbä\ lik. — adjective·cat·a·bol·i·cal \-ly-li(k-)ə\ lē. Adverb see catabolism defined for. kids Medical Definition of CATABOLISM. : destructive metabolism involving the release of energy and resulting in the breakdown of complex materials within the organism—compare anabolism.