1 The Potometer does not measure the rate of transpiration accurately because not all of the water that is taken by the plant is used for transpiration (water taken might be used for photosynthesis or by the cells to maintain turgidity). 2  The potometer measures the rate of uptake of water. 1 The potometer measures the rate of uptake of water. 2  To measure transpiration rate directly, rather than the rate of water uptake, utilize a scientific instrument which quantifies water transfer at the leaves. 3  The water retained by plant is so negligible that it can be neglected.
The Potometer. A potometer is a device that measures the rate at which a plant draws up water. Since the plant draws up water as it loses it by transpiration, you are able to measure the rate of transpiration. The basic elements of a potometer are: 1  A plant cutting. 2  A calibrated pipette to measure water loss. 3  A length of clear plastic tubing. 4  An air-tight seal between the plant and the water-filled tubing
A potometer, or transpirometer, is a device used to measure the rate of transpiration, or the rate of loss of water, from the leaves of a plant. Ad. One type of potometer design commonly used in the biology classroom is the bubble potometer, where the rate of movement of a bubble of air inside a column of water is used to measure the transpiration rate of a plant.
A potometer is a device used for measuring the rate of water uptake of a leafy plant shoot. The main reason for water uptake by a cut shoot is transpiration (evaporation in plants) and is effected by the transpiration stream. 
A potometer (from Greek ποτό = drunken, and μέτρο = measure) —sometimes known as a transpirometer — is a device used for measuring the rate of water uptake of a leafy shoot. The causes of water uptake are photosynthesis and transpiration. Everything must be completely water tight so that no leakage of water occurs. 1 The potometer measures the rate of uptake of water. 2  To measure transpiration rate directly, rather than the rate of water uptake, utilize a scientific instrument which quantifies water transfer at the leaves. 3  The water retained by plant is so negligible that it can be neglected.
potometer is an appartus to measure water uptake by a plant. it is used to find out the water uptake by a plant using potometer and then measure it by the scale on the … potometer.  . 5 people found this useful. Some of the water taken might be used for photosynthesis or by the cells to maintain turgidi … ty. The potometer measures the rate of uptake of water. To measure transpiration rate directly, rather than the rate of water uptake, utilize a scientific instrument which quantifies water transfer at the leaves.
Main Image: A potometer also known as ‘transpirometer’ is a tool used for measuring the rate of water loss of a leaves of the plant. The major reason for water loss is transpiration and photosynthesis. Transpiration is the loss of water from leaves and stems and essential process in green plants. All potometers follows the same pattern as given below: 1  Mass potometer: The mass potometer is designed in such a way that a plant with its root is inundated in a glass beaker or a container. 2  This container (beaker) is then kept on a digital balance.
The mass potometer measures the water lost through transpiration of the plant and not the water taken up by the plant. 1  A potometer is a piece of apparatus used to measure the rate of water loss from a plant (transpiration). 2  The rate of transpiration can be estimated in two ways: 1 The potometer measures the rate of uptake of water. 2  To measure transpiration rate directly, rather than the rate of water uptake, utilize a scientific instrument which quantifies water transfer at the leaves. 3  The water retained by plant is so negligible that it can be neglected.