This is a list of Orkney islands in Scotland. The Orkney archipelago is located 16 kilometres (9.9 mi) north of mainland Scotland and comprises over 70 islands and skerries, of which 20 are permanently inhabited. In addition to the Orkney Mainland there are three groups of islands. The islands all fall within the Orkney Islands Council area. Most of the larger islands have development trusts that support the local economy. The total population of Orkney increased from 19,245 in 2001 to 21,349 at the time of the 2011 census.
Orkney Islands. The Orkney Islands are an archipelago of approximately 70 islands some 10 miles off the northern coast of Scotland. The Heart of Neolithic Orkney is listed on the UNESCO World Heritage List. Loading photos….
Graphic maps of Orkney Islands. Maphill enables you look at the region of Orkney Islands, Scotland, United Kingdom from many different perspectives. Each angle of view and every map style has its own advantage. Start by choosing the map type. You will be able to select the style of the map in the very next step. Browse the below list of cities, towns and villages in Orkney Islands, Scotland, United Kingdom. Many different map types are available for all these locations. 1  Birsay – Scapa. 2  Birsay. 3  Finstown. 4  Georth. 5  Hurliness. 6  Kettletoft.
browse Orkney Islands (United Kingdom) google maps gazetteer. Browse the most comprehensive and up-to-date online directory of administrative regions in Orkney Islands. Regions are sorted in alphabetical order from level 1 to level 2 and eventually up to level 3 regions. You are in Orkney Islands (Scotland, Scotland, United Kingdom), administrative region of level 3. Continue further in the list below the place you are interested in. 1  Birsay. 2  Finstown. 3  Georth. 4  Hurliness. 5  Kettletoft. 6  Kirkwall. 7  Lyness. 8  Melsetter.
Situated off the north coast of Great Britain, Orkney is 16 kilometres (10 mi) north of the coast of Caithness and comprises approximately 70 islands, of which 20 are inhabited. The southern group of islands surrounds Scapa Flow. Hoy is the second largest of the Orkney Isles and Ward Hill at its northern end is the highest elevation in the archipelago. The Old Man of Hoy is a well-known seastack.
Get Orkney Islands maps for free. You can easily download, print or embed Orkney Islands, Scotland, United Kingdom maps into your website, blog, or presentation. Maps in the form of a static image display the same in all browsers. Free images are available under Free map link located above the map on all map pages. Browse the below list of cities, towns and villages in Orkney Islands, Scotland, United Kingdom. Many different map types are available for all these locations. 1  Birsay – Scapa. 2  Birsay. 3  Finstown. 4  Georth. 5  Hurliness. 6  Kettletoft.
Orkney is one of the 32 council areas of Scotland, a constituency of the Scottish Parliament, a lieutenancy area, and a former county. The local council is Orkney Islands Council, one of only three Councils in Scotland with a majority of elected members who are independents. The southern group of islands surrounds Scapa Flow. Hoy is the second largest of the Orkney Isles and Ward Hill at its northern end is the highest elevation in the archipelago. The Old Man of Hoy is a well-known seastack.
Orkney /ˈɔrkni/ (Scottish Gaelic: Arcaibh), also known as the Orkney Islands, is an archipelago in the Northern Isles of Scotland, United Kingdom. The southern group of islands surrounds Scapa Flow. Hoy is the second largest of the Orkney Isles and Ward Hill at its northern end is the highest elevation in the archipelago. The Old Man of Hoy is a well-known seastack.
Welcome to the Orkney Islands. Situated off the north tip of Scotland, Orkney is home to 19,000 people on it's 19 inhabited islands. 
Orkney Islands Description. Located off the northern coastline of mainland Scotland, the Orkney Islands, an archipelago of near 70 islands (17 inhabited), cover an area of 975 sq km. Along with the Shetland Islands, the Orkney Islands were settled by Norwegians during the late 8th and early 9th centuries. First served as the headquarters for Viking expeditions, the islands were later annexed in 875 by the Norwegian king.