However, it can involve other large vessels (such as the aorta in giant-cell aortitis). Giant-cell arteritis of the temporal artery is referred to as temporal arteritis, and is also known as cranial arteritis and Horton's disease.. The name (giant-cell arteritis) reflects the type of inflammatory cell involved as seen on a biopsy. The terms giant-cell arteritis and temporal arteritis are sometimes used interchangeably, because of the frequent involvement of the temporal artery.
(Redirected from Temporal arteritis). Giant-cell arteritis (GCA or temporal arteritis or cranial arteritis) or Horton disease is an inflammatory disease of blood vessels most commonly involving large and medium arteries of the head, predominantly the branches of the external carotid artery. The terms giant-cell arteritis and temporal arteritis are sometimes used interchangeably, because of the frequent involvement of the temporal artery.
Temporal arteritis may also involve the aorta and may be associated with aneurysm, dissection, and aortic rupture. The typical involvement of the temporal, vertebral, and ophthalmic arteries leads to the classic clinical manifestations of headache, facial pain, and vision problems. It is the most common systemic vasculitis of older adults. Symptoms of temporal arteritis can be either constitutional or vascular-related. Constitutional symptoms include fever, weight loss, anemia, and fatigue.
Background. Giant cell arteritis (GCA), or temporal arteritis, is a systemic inflammatory vasculitis of unknown etiology that occurs in older persons and can result in a wide variety of systemic, neurologic, and ophthalmologic complications. Giant cell arteritis (GCA) is primarily a disease of cell-mediated immunity, which is thought to arise as a maladaptive response to endothelial injury. Actinic damage to the temporal artery from chronic sun exposure has been proposed as one source of the injury.
Most often, it affects the arteries in your head, especially those in your temples. For this reason, giant cell arteritis is sometimes called temporal arteritis. Giant cell arteritis frequently causes headaches, scalp tenderness, jaw pain and vision problems. If left untreated, it can lead to stroke or blindnes
Overview. Giant cell arteritis (GCA) is a form of vasculitis, a group of disorders that cause inflammation of blood vessels. In GCA, the vessels of the head are most involved (especially the temporal arteries, located on each side of the head), but other blood vessels can also become inflamed. The inflammation causes the arteries to narrow, resulting in inadequate blood flow.
Temporal arteritis, also known as giant-cell arteritis and cranial arteritis, is a systemic vasculitis of medium-sized and large-sized arteries. It is the most common systemic vasculitis of older adults. Symptoms of temporal arteritis can be either constitutional or vascular-related. Constitutional symptoms include fever, weight loss, anemia, and fatigue.
About inheritance and genetics: Inheritance of Temporal arteritis refers to whether the condition is inherited from your parents or runs in families. The level of inheritance of a condition depends on how important genetics are to the disease.
This inflammation causes the arteries to narrow, impeding adequate blood flow. In giant cell arteritis, the vessels most involved are those of the head, especially the temporal arteries (located on each side of the head). For this reason, the disorder is sometimes called temporal arteritis. When a doctor suspects giant cell arteritis a temporal artery biopsy is typically ordered. In this procedure, a small section of the artery is removed through an incision in the skin over the temple area and examined under a microscope.
However, the temporal arteries of the head are most frequently affected (temporal arteritis). In rare cases, veins may also be affected by giant cell arteritis. The symptoms of giant cell arteritis may include stiffness, muscle pain, fever, and/or headaches. Giant cell arteritis is a chronic inflammatory disease characterized by the progressive inflammation of many arteries of the body (panarteritis). Granular material and abnormally large cells (giant cells) accumulate in the elastic lining of the arteries.