The receptors match only one specific antigen. White blood cells called lymphocytes originate in the bone marrow but migrate to parts of the lymphatic system such as the lymph nodes, spleen, and thymus. There are two main types of lymphatic cells, T cells and B cells. 
Confidence votes 133. Red blood cells (RBCs) are produced in the bone marrow. Red blood cells are also known as erythrocytes and they transport oxygen and carbon dioxide between the lungs and tissues. The production of red blood cells is also known as hematopoiesis; this process occurs in the bone marrow. The red blood cells are produced in the red bone marrow in the center of the bone. Marrow. Red blood cells, or erythrocytes, are made in the bone marrow as are white blood cel … ls or leukocytes and they originate from stem cells.
Platelets are the smallest of the three major types of blood cells. 1  are only about 20% of the diameter of red blood cells. 2  The normal platelet count is 150,000-350,000 per microliter of blood, but since platelets are so small, they make up just a tiny fraction of the blood volume. 1 are only about 20% of the diameter of red blood cells. 2  The normal platelet count is 150,000-350,000 per microliter of blood, but since platelets are so small, they make up just a tiny fraction of the blood volume. 3  The principal function of platelets is to prevent bleeding.
White Blood Cell Production. White blood cells are produced by bone marrow within bone. Some white blood cells mature in the lymph nodes, spleen, or thymus gland. The life span of mature leukocytes ranges from about a few hours to several days.
White blood cells. White blood cells help the body fight against infection. There are many different types of white blood cells, which include: 1  Lymphocytes, neutrophils, and monocytes. 2  These white blood cells fight against invading bacteria, viruses, or fungi to help destroy infection. 3  Each of these cells differs in appearance. 4  Eosinophils and basophils
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: red blood cells are produced in the red bone marrow, and white blood cells are produced yellow bone marrow, the red blood cells are obvioulsly used for transportation of oxygen and co2. white blood cells are for infection to fight off, hope it helps! 
Introduction to Hematology. Course Introduction. Blood is the only tissue that flows throughout your body. This red liquid carries oxygen and nutrients to all parts of the body and waste products back to your lungs, kidneys and liver for disposal. 
A blood cell, also called a hematocyte, is a cell produced by hematopoiesis and is normally found in blood. In mammals, these fall into three general categories: 1  Red blood cells – Erythrocytes. 2  White blood cells – Leukocytes. 3  Platelets – Thrombocytes. 
Types of white blood cells. Among your white blood cells are: Monocytes. They have a longer lifespan than many white blood cells and help to break down bacteria. Lymphocytes. They create antibodies to defend against bacteria, viruses, and other potentially harmful invaders. Neutrophils. They kill and digest bacteria and fungi. White blood cells are produced inside the bone marrow and stored in your blood and lymphatic tissues. Because some white blood cells have a short lifespan of one to three days, your bone marrow is constantly producing them. Click to Enlarge.
Platelets are the smallest of the three major types of blood cells. 1  are only about 20% of the diameter of red blood cells. 2  Red. 3  are the most numerous blood cell, about 5,000,000 per microliter. 4  are the largest of the blood cells but also the fewest. 1 are only about 20% of the diameter of red blood cells. 2  The normal platelet count is 150,000-350,000 per microliter of blood, but since platelets are so small, they make up just a tiny fraction of the blood volume. 3  The principal function of platelets is to prevent bleeding.