Workings of the zirconia lambda sensor. With the lambda sensor or zirconia oxygen sensor the concentration difference in oxygen levels of two gases can be measured. The sensor consists of a plate zirconium dioxide (zirconia) to which a thin layer of platinum is applied at both sides.
Lambda Sensor. The lambda sensor is also known as the exhaust gas oxygen sensor and is the key sensor in the engine fuel control feedback loop. A computer uses the lambda sensor to balance the fuel-oxygen mixture. The correct reading for fuel mixtures is rich as opposed to lean
The precise control required to operate this system is provided by the use of an exhaust gas oxygen (Lambda) sensor installed upstream of the catalyst. A Lambda sensor has the ability to precisely measure the air/fuel ratio present in exhaust gases. By sending a signal to the control unit it can initiate a change to keep the fuelling system operating within the very tight tolerances required. This is known as a closed-loop control system. 
The lambda sensor measures the amount of unburned oxygen in the engine exhaust. It then sends a signal to the ECU, which adjusts the fuel & air mixture for optimum engine performance. The lambda sensor is important in controlling exhaust emissions. Common symptoms of lambda sensor failure include excessive fuel consumption, engine surges or stuttering, and the engine management light illuminating. Failure will also result in high hydrocarbon emissions, causing failure at an emissions check (part of the MOT process).
Lambda Sensor. The Lambda Sensor, also known as an Oxygen or O 2 sensor, gives a voltage feedback to the ECU indicating the amount of oxygen in the exhaust stream, thus allowing accurate control over the combustion mixture. 
Split and merge into it. Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. it is an oxygen sensor. located at before the catalytic converter to measure the amount of air fuel mixture. the term lambda is used since it uses a mathematical equation to determine this measure. 
The lambda sensor is also referred to as the Oxygen O 2 sensor or a Heated Exhaust Gas Oxygen (HEGO) sensor and plays a very important role in control of exhaust emissions on a catalytic equipped vehicle. Waveform notes. The lambda sensor is also referred to as the Oxygen (O 2) sensor plays a very important role in the control of exhaust emissions on a catalytic equipped vehicle. The lambda sensor is fitted into the exhaust pipe before the catalytic converter. The sensor will have 4 electrical connections and it reacts to the oxygen content in the exhaust system and will produce an oscillating voltage between 0.5 volt (lean) to 4.0 volts, or above (rich) when running correctly
An oxygen sensor (or lambda sensor) is an electronic device that measures the proportion of oxygen (O 2) in the gas or liquid being analysed. It was developed by the Robert Bosch GmbH company during the late 1960s under the supervision of Dr. Guenter Günter. bauman The ECU is a control system that uses feedback from the sensor to adjust the fuel/air mixture. As in all control systems, the time constant of the sensor is important; the ability of the ECU to control the fuel-air-ratio depends upon the response time of the sensor.