Anxiety Rating Test Results: 41 - 60: MODERATE. This score indicates that your anxiety level is moderately elevated above the normal range: MODERATE anxiety issues. People who consistently score in this range are considered to have issues with anxiety (when anxiety and its consequences interfere with a normal lifestyle). 
A Mild. It's easy for someone else to look at your anxiety and tell you it's mild compared to theirs. The best way to get an idea if your anxiety is mild, moderate, or severe is to take my free anxiety test. The test compares your symptoms to others with anxiety and can tell you how severe your symptoms may be. But no matter what the results say, suffering from anxiety is always hard. No matter how mild or severe your anxiety is, it's always a struggle-otherwise you wouldn't realize you had anxiety. It is important to remember that if anxiety is hurting your quality of life, it deserves to be treated.
Conditions listing medical symptoms: Mild to moderate anxiety: The following list of conditions have ' Mild to moderate anxiety ' or similar listed as a symptom in our database. This computer-generated list may be inaccurate or incomplete. Always seek prompt professional medical advice about the cause of any symptom.
Serax Dosing for Anxiety. The recommended Serax dose for mild-to-moderate anxiety treatment is Serax 10 mg to 15 mg three or four times daily. For severe anxiety or anxiety associated with depression, the recommended dose is Serax 15 mg to 30 mg three or four times daily. The suggested Serax dosage for those who have severe anxiety or anxiety associated with depression is 15 mg to 30 mg, also taken three or four times daily. The dose of Serax ® (oxazepam) that your healthcare provider recommends will vary depending on a number of factors, including:
Data support the effectiveness of some popular herbal remedies and dietary supplements; in some of these products, particularly kava, the potential for benefit seems greater than that for harm with short-term use in patients with mild to moderate anxiety. Short-term use of kava is recommended for patients with mild to moderate anxiety disorders who are not using alcohol or taking other medicines metabolized by the liver, but who wish to use “natural” remedies.
Mild to moderate anxiety: anxiety is a feeling of apprehension or fear. See detailed information below for a list of 13 causes of Mild to moderate anxiety, Symptom Checker, including diseases and drug side effect causes. » Review Causes of Mild to moderate anxiety: Causes | Symptom Checker ». Some of the comorbid or associated medical symptoms for Mild to moderate anxiety may include these symptoms: 1  Anxiety. 2  Chronic anxiety. 3  Feeling of apprehension. 4  Generalised anxiety disorder.
For most people with mild-to-moderate anxiety, the recommended Serax dose is 10 mg to 15 mg three or four times daily. The dose of Serax ® (oxazepam) that your healthcare provider recommends will vary depending on a number of factors, including: The suggested Serax dosage for those who have severe anxiety or anxiety associated with depression is 15 mg to 30 mg, also taken three or four times daily. The dose of Serax ® (oxazepam) that your healthcare provider recommends will vary depending on a number of factors, including:
Considerations. Before taking drugs for mild anxiety, ask your doctor to perform a comprehensive physical examination. Some medical conditions create symptoms that mimic anxiety, and taking medications to reduce these symptoms may mask a bigger problem. Review all the medications you are taking with your doctor. Some medications cause side effects that imitate mild anxiety, and a simple dose adjustment may eliminate the problem. If medications for mild anxiety become part of your treatment plan, talk with your doctor about adding another proven treatment--psychotherapy--to manage your symptoms. 