A bulbourethral gland, also called a Cowper gland for English anatomist William Cowper, is one of two small exocrine glands in the reproductive system of many male mammals (of all domesticated animals, they are only absent in the dog). They are homologous to Bartholin's glands in females. The bulbourethral glands are compound tubulo-alveolar glands, each approximately the size of a pea in humans. In chimpanzees, they are not visible during dissection, but can be found on microscopic examination. In boars, they are up to 18 cm long and 5 cm in diameter.
Either of two small, round, yellow glands, one on each side of the prostate gland, each with a duct about 1 in (2.5 cm) long, terminating in the wall of the urethra. They secrete a viscid fluid forming part of the seminal fluid and correspond to the Bartholin glands in the female. either of two round, pea-sized tubular glands embedded in the urethral sphincter of the male beneath the bulb of the male urethra. Normally yellow, they consist of several lobes with ducts that join and form a single excretory duct, emptying mucus into the urethra. Also called bulbourethral gland.
Bulbourethral gland: A pea-sized gland in the male located behind and to the side of the urethra that discharges a component of seminal fluid into the urethra. There are two bulbourethral glands, one on each side. Also known as the Cowper's gland. 
Medical Definition of COWPER'S GLAND. : either of two small glands of which one lies on each side of the male urethra below the prostate gland and discharges a secretion into the semen—called also bulbourethral gland, gland of Cowper; compare bartholin's gland. : either of two small glands lying on either side of the male urethra below the prostate gland and discharging a secretion into the semen —called also bulbourethral gland — compare bartholin's gland. See Cowper's gland defined for kids.
Definition of COWPER'S GLAND. : either of two small glands lying on either side of the male urethra below the prostate gland and discharging a secretion into the semen —called also bulbourethral gland — compare bartholin's gland. See Cowper's gland defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
The Cowper’s glands (or bulbourethral glands) are a pair of exocrine glands in the male reproductive system. Roughly the size of peas, they are located inferior to the prostate gland and lateral to the urethra in the urogenital diaphragm. The Cowper’s glands are only found in the male body and play an important role in the protection of sperm during ejaculation.
2. A gland secreting substances that enhance the function of another gland or organ; e.g., in the male reproductive tract, the prostate, which secretes fluids that improve the viability of sperm, is an accessory gland to the testis. Each adrenal gland is a two-part organ composed of an outer cortex and an inner medulla. The cortex arises in the embryo from a region of the mesoderm that also gives rise to the gonads. The medulla arises from ectoderm, which also gives rise to the sympathetic nervous system.
The bulbourethral glands (also known as the cowper's glands) are  male sexual glands. They are located below the prostate and  discharge a component of the seminal fluid into the urethra. During  sexual intercourse each gland produces a secretion known as  pre-ejaculate. The main function of the bulbourethral or cowper's gland is to  produce and release the pre-cum to rid the urethra of any acidic  urine. The clear fluid neutralizes urine … in the urethra so that  when a man ejaculates, the sperm in the semen are not destroyed by  acidic urine leftover in the urethra.
A Cowper’s gland, or bulbourethral gland, is one of two pea-sized organs found at the base of the penis that produce secretions necessary for fertile sexual activity. Together with the prostate and seminal vesicles, these glands make a mucus-like substance that goes into semen and also acts as a lubricant during sex. 