Franklin's data on the shape of the DNA molecule revealed its structure of the double helix; in a great controversy, Watson and Crick scooped Franklin's information and, using Chargaff's rules, cracked the DNA structure code. Copyright © 2007-2013 DNA-Structure.com. All rights reserved. While Miescher found DNA, it wasn't until 84 years later, in the early 1950s, that scientists recognized it as genetic material. Prior to that, everyone thought DNA, with its four bases, was too simple to be the
On this day in 1953, Cambridge University scientists James D. Watson and Frances H.C. Crick announce that they have determined the double-helix structure of DNA, the molecule containing human genes. Though DNA–short for deoxyribonucleic acid–was discovered in 1869, its crucial role in determining genetic inheritance wasn’t demonstrated until 1943. In the early 1950s, Watson and Crick were only two of many scientists working on figuring out the structure of DNA.
In 1962, Crick was awarded a Nobel Prize for discovering the structure of DNA, along with fellow scientists James Watson and Maurice Wilkins. Several people posted comments about our story that noted one name was missing from the Nobel roster: Rosalind Franklin, a British biophysicist who also studied DNA. Franklin also published in the same issue, providing further details on DNA's structure. Franklin's image of the DNA molecule was key to deciphering its structure, but only Watson, Crick, and Wilkins received the 1962 Nobel Prize in physiology or medicine for their work.
The sugar-phosphate backbone is on the outside and the four different bases are on the inside of the DNA molecule. The two strands of the double helix are anti-parallel, which means that they run in opposite directions. The sugar-phosphate backbone is on the outside of the helix, and the bases are on the inside. It appeared in April 1953 in the scientific paper where James Watson and Francis Crick presented the structure of the DNA-helix, the molecule that carries genetic information from one generation to the other.
First isolated by Friedrich Miescher in 1869 and with its molecular structure first identified by James Watson and Francis Crick in 1953, DNA is used by researchers as a molecular tool to explore physical laws and theories, such as the ergodic theorem and the theory of elasticity. The two DNA strands are known as polynucleotides since they are composed of simpler units called nucleotides. Each nucleotide is composed of a nitrogen-containing nucleobase —either cytosine (C), guanine (G), adenine (A), or thymine (T)—as well as a monosaccharide sugar called deoxyribose and a phosphate group.
While DNA (DeoxyriboNucleic Acid) was discovered in 1868, it wasn't recognized as genetic material until almost a century later. DNA was discovered by a Swiss medical student named Johann Friedrich Miescher, who found it when working with white blood cells that he took from pus drained out of a surgical wound. While Miescher found DNA, it wasn't until 84 years later, in the early 1950s, that scientists recognized it as genetic material. Prior to that, everyone thought DNA, with its four bases, was too simple to be the
Deoxyribonucleic acid (/diˌɒksiˌraɪbɵ.njuːˌkleɪ.ɨk ˈaesɪd/ ; ˈæSɪD) dna is a molecule that carries most of the genetic instructions used in the, development functioning and reproduction of all known living organisms and many. viruses The two DNA strands are known as polynucleotides since they are composed of simpler units called nucleotides. Each nucleotide is composed of a nitrogen-containing nucleobase —either cytosine (C), guanine (G), adenine (A), or thymine (T)—as well as a monosaccharide sugar called deoxyribose and a phosphate group.
Home Timelines. DNA Timeline Timeline Description: DNA, the molecule carrying the genetic instructions of life, was arguably one of the most important discoveries of the last century. DNA is used in the development of all forms of known life, is composed of 4 nucleotides, and has the form of a double helix. 
Also, the amount of adenine was the same as the amount of thymine. American geneticist James Watson and English physicist Francis Crick, with much help from a scientist named Rosalind Franklin, figured out why the ratios were important to the structure of DNA. While Miescher found DNA, it wasn't until 84 years later, in the early 1950s, that scientists recognized it as genetic material. Prior to that, everyone thought DNA, with its four bases, was too simple to be the
Instead, it was Franklin's famous photograph 51 that finally revealed the helical structure of DNA to Watson and Crick in 1953. This picture of DNA that had been crystallized under moist conditions shows a fuzzy X in the middle of the molecule, a pattern indicating a helical structure. It appeared in April 1953 in the scientific paper where James Watson and Francis Crick presented the structure of the DNA-helix, the molecule that carries genetic information from one generation to the other.