Stasis: A stoppage or slowdown in the flow of blood or other body fluid, such as lymph. For example, a stasis ulcer is an ulcer that develops in an area in which the circulation is sluggish and the venous return (the return of venous blood toward the heart) is poor. A common location for stasis ulcers is the ankle.
sta·sis. n. pl. sta·ses (stā′sēz, stăs′ēz). 1. A condition of balance among various forces; motionlessness: Language is a primary element of culture, and stasis in the arts is tantamount to death (Charles Marsh). 2. Medicine Stoppage of the normal flow of a body substance, as of blood through an artery or of intestinal contents through the bowel
[ˈʃtaːziː]) (abbreviation German: Staatssicherheit, literally State Security), also State Security Service (German Staatssicherheitsdienst, SSD), was the official state security service of the German Democratic Republic (GDR), or Deutsche Demokratische Republik (DDR), colloquially known as East Germany. It has been described as one of the most effective and repressive intelligence and secret police agencies to have ever existed. The Stasi was headquartered in East Berlin, with an extensive complex in Berlin-Lichtenberg and several smaller facilities throughout the city. The Stasi motto was  Schild und Schwert der Partei  (Shield and Sword of the Party), referring to the ruling Socialist Unity Party of Germany (SED)
stasis. n. 1. (Pathology) pathol a stagnation in the normal flow of bodily fluids, such as the blood or urine. 2. (Literary & Literary Critical Terms) literature a state or condition in which there is no action or progress; static situation: dramatic stasis. n. pl. sta·ses (stā′sēz, stăs′ēz). 1. A condition of balance among various forces; motionlessness: Language is a primary element of culture, and stasis in the arts is tantamount to death (Charles Marsh). 2.
1. a stoppage or diminution of flow, as of blood or other body fluid. 2. a state of equilibrium among opposing forces.stat´ic. intestinal stasis impairment of the normal passage of intestinal contents, due to mechanical obstruction or to impaired intestinal motility. urinary stasis stoppage of the flow or discharge of urine, at any level of the urinary tract.
Stasi. n. 1. (Historical Terms) formerly, the secret police in East Germany. [from German Sta (ats) si (cherheitsdienst), literally: state security service]. 1  Facebook. 
a stoppage or diminution of the physiological contents in the lumen of a tubular organ. The different types of stasis include stasis of the blood, or hemostasis (generally capillary or venous), stasis of the feces, or coprostasis, urinary stasis, and lym-phostasis. Stasis may result from the action of chemical and physical factors and bacterial toxins, from an impairment of blood-vessel innervation, and from a change in blood composition. Persistent hemostasis may cause tissue necrosis.
1 As a result, a thrombus in the left atrial appendage may develop due to the stasis of blood in the left atrium. 2  Venous stasis disease most commonly occurs in patients with obesity, congestive heart failure or diabetes. 1 A period or state of inactivity or equilibrium: long periods of stasis creative stasis. More example sentences. 1  During such periods of stasis, most species exhibit no directional change. 2  The illness gets worse and worse as time passes, and the periods of stasis last increasingly longer.
Full Definition of STASIS. 1. : a slowing or stoppage of the normal flow of a bodily fluid or semifluid: as a: slowing of the current of circulating blood b: reduced motility of the intestines with retention of feces. 2. 