ore. 1. a metal-bearing mineral or rock, or a native metal, that can be mined at a profit. 2. a mineral or natural product serving as a source of some nonmetallic substance, as sulfur. Noun. 1. ore-a mineral that contains metal that is valuable enough to be mined. mineral-solid homogeneous inorganic substances occurring in nature having a definite chemical composition.
The richness of ores can be vastly different, depending on the minerals and elements involved. Chromium ore consists mainly of the mineral chromite, of which chromium is a major constituent. Most vanadium ores are made of magnetite, but vanadium is only a minor element of that mineral. 
Iron ore is any rock or mineral from which iron can economically be extracted. It comes in a variety of colors, including dark gray, bright yellow, deep purple, and rusty red. The iron comes in the form of iron oxides such as magnetite, hematite, limonite, goethite, or siderite. 
642 pages on this wiki. An Ore is a type of Block naturally found in Minecraft. Ore is primarily collected for crafting purposes, to make items such as Tools, Armor, and more. Redstone Ore is used as a type of wiring which can be used to create redstone circuits, Compasses, Clocks, and other items. Coal Ore can be used to smelt other Ores, such as Gold and Iron for storage purposes or building. Since layer 0 is the lowest layer and consists of only Bedrock, no Ore can be found there. It can, however, be spawned very close to the bottom of the map, at layer 1. Certain Ores have the habit of spawning at any layer.
An ore (or ore deposit) is a volume of rock containing valuable minerals that occur at sufficiently high concentrations for profitable mining, transportation, milling, and processing. 
ore. metal-bearing mineral mass that can be profitably mined. Nearly all rock deposits contain some metallic minerals, but in many cases the concentration of metal is too low to justify mining mining,extraction of solid mineral resources from the earth. 
ore. n. A mineral or an aggregate of minerals from which a valuable constituent, especially a metal, can be profitably mined or extracted. Noun. 1. ore-a mineral that contains metal that is valuable enough to be mined. mineral-solid homogeneous inorganic substances occurring in nature having a definite chemical composition.
Gold ore (size: 7.5 × 6.1 × 4.1 cm). Cart for carrying ore from a mine on display at the Historic Archive and Museum of Mining in Pachuca, Mexico. An ore is a type of rock that contains sufficient minerals with important elements including metals that can be economically extracted from the rock. The ores are extracted from the earth through mining; they are then refined (often via smelting) to extract the valuable element, or elements. The ores must be processed to extract the metals of interest from the waste rock and from the ore minerals. Ore bodies are formed by a variety of geological processes. The process of ore formation is called ore genesis.
Definition of ORE. 1. : a naturally occurring mineral containing a valuable constituent (as metal) for which it is mined and worked. 2. : a source from which valuable matter is extracted. ADVERTISEMENT
Ores containing very high quantities of hematite or magnetite (greater than ~60% iron) are known as natural ore or direct shipping ore, meaning they can be fed directly into iron-making blast furnaces. Iron ore is the raw material used to make pig iron, which is one of the main raw materials to make steel. 98% of the mined iron ore is used to make steel. Indeed, it has been argued that iron ore is more integral to the global economy than any other commodity, except perhaps oil