Data that are skewed to the right have a long tail that extends to the right. An alternate way of talking about a data set skewed to the right is to say that it is positively skewed. In this situation the mean and the median are both greater than the mode. As a general rule, most of the time for data skewed to the right, the mean will be greater than the median.
If the data set is skewed to the right, the mean is greater than the mode, and so subtracting the mode from the mean gives a positive number. A similar argument explains why data skewed to the left has negative skewness. An alternate way of talking about a data set skewed to the right is to say that it is positively skewed. In this situation the mean and the median are both greater than the mode. As a general rule, most of the time for data skewed to the right, the mean will be greater than the median.
A further characterization of the data includes skewness and kurtosis. Skewness is a measure of symmetry, or more precisely, the lack of symmetry. A distribution, or data set, is symmetric if it looks the same to the left and right of the center point. Kurtosis is a measure of whether the data are peaked or flat relative to a normal distribution. That is, data sets with high kurtosis tend to have a distinct peak near the mean, decline rather rapidly, and have heavy tails. Data sets with low kurtosis tend to have a flat top near the mean rather than a sharp peak. The above formula for skewness is referred to as the Fisher-Pearson coefficient of skewness. Many software programs actually compute the adjusted Fisher-Pearson coefficient of skewness. The skewness for a normal distribution is zero, and any symmetric data should have a skewness near zero. Negative values for the skewness indicate data that are skewed left and positive values for the skewness indicate data that are skewed right
A skewed (non-symmetric) distribution is a distribution in which there is no such mirror-imaging. For skewed distributions, it is quite common to have one tail of the distribution considerably longer or drawn out relative to the other tail. A skewed right distribution is one in which the tail is on the right side. A skewed left distribution is one in which the tail is on the left side. The above histogram is for a distribution that is skewed right. Skewed distributions bring a certain philosophical complexity to the very process of estimating a typical value for the distribution. 
m 4 = ∑(x− x̅) 4 / n and m 2 = ∑(x− x̅) 2 / n. Again, the excess kurtosis is generally used because the excess kurtosis of a normal distribution is 0. x̅ is the mean and n is the sample size, as usual. m 4 is called the fourth moment of the data set. m 2 is the variance, the square of the standard deviation. 
The variance of the skewness of a random sample of size n from a normal distribution is. An approximate alternative is 6/ n, but this is inaccurate for small samples. In normal samples, has the smaller variance of the two estimators, with. where m 2 in the denominator is the (biased) sample second central moment. If the distribution is symmetric, then the mean is equal to the median, and the distribution has zero skewness. If, in addition, the distribution is unimodal, then the mean = median = mode. This is the case of a coin toss or the series 1,2,3,4,..
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. In statistics, normality tests are used to determine if a data set is well-modeled by a normal distribution and to compute how likely it is for a random variable underlying the data set to be normally distributed. 
Negative or left skewed distributions. Left skewed or negative skewed data is so named because the tail of the distribution points to the left, and because it produces a negative skewness value. Failure rate data is often left skewed. Consider light bulbs: very few will burn out right away, the vast majority lasting for quite a long time.