Definition of GIGUE. : a lively dance movement (as of a suite) having compound triple rhythm and composed in fugal style. ADVERTISEMENT. French, from English jig. First Known Use: 1685
A gigue is usually in 3/8 or in one of its compound metre derivatives, such as 6/8, 6/4, 9/8 or 12/8, although there are some gigues written in other metres, as for example the gigue from Johann Sebastian Bach 's first French Suite (BWV 812), which is written in 2/2. It often has a contrapuntal texture. A gigue, like other Baroque dances, consists of two sections. In Bach's gigues, each section often begins as a fugue, in which the theme used in the first section is inverted in the second section, as for example in the gigue from Bach's third English Suite. Another gigue rhythm.
GIGUE. Gigue is a Belgian fashion brand with a decidedly feminine signature. The collections, known for colour, print and sophisticated details, include ready-to-wear, shoes and accessories. The looks exude spontaneous elegance, are superbly tailored and feel fabulous due to the high-quality fabrics. In around 2000 Gigue evolved with the arrival of his daughter Audrey. Audrey's collections are more feminine, include more prints and colour, but still remain true to the original Gigue DNA: no-risk style, exceptional tailoring, quality fabrics and pieces that can be combined throughout the seasons.
gigue. see jig jig,dance of English origin that is performed also in Ireland and Scotland. It is usually a lively dance, performed by one or more persons, with quick and irregular steps. When the jig was introduced to the United States, it was often danced in minstrel shows...... Click the link for more information. .
The gigue (/ʒiːɡ/ ; [ʒiɡ]) or giga (. [ˈdʒiːɡa]) is a lively baroque dance originating from the British jig. It was imported into France in the mid-17th century and usually appears at the end of a suite. The gigue was probably never a court dance, but it was danced by nobility on social occasions and several court composers wrote gigues. A gigue, like other Baroque dances, consists of two sections. In Bach's gigues, each section often begins as a fugue, in which the theme used in the first section is inverted in the second section, as for example in the gigue from Bach's third English Suite. Another gigue rhythm.
For about 25 years now, Gigue has remained true to its identity. Gigue has always devoted considerable attention to its image. Since the label was founded, top photographers and up and coming international models have worked for Gigue, giving brand images and catalogues that extra special touch. In around 2000 Gigue evolved with the arrival of his daughter Audrey. Audrey's collections are more feminine, include more prints and colour, but still remain true to the original Gigue DNA: no-risk style, exceptional tailoring, quality fabrics and pieces that can be combined throughout the seasons.
gigue. n. 1. (Classical Music) a piece of music, usually in six-eight time and often fugal, incorporated into the classical suite. 2. (Dancing) a formal couple dance of the 16th and 17th centuries, derived from the jig. 