Amoebozoa is a major taxonomic group containing about 2,400 described species of amoeboid protists, often possessing blunt, fingerlike, lobose pseudopods and tubular mitochondrial cristae. In most classification schemes, Amoebozoa is ranked as a phylum within either the kingdom Protista or the kingdom Protozoa. 
Phylum Amoebozoa. Some unicellular organisms with ameboid forms are also commonly called amoeba, but they do not belong always to phylum Amoebozoa. Amoeba is a genus, howe … ver, all species of phylum Amoebozoa are currently called amoebae. 5 people found this useful. 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. 2  Electrical impulses are sent along the nervous system to and from the brain that regulate all movement.
Amoeba proteus, the common amoeba, is currently classified in Kingdom Amoebozoa. Older sources may list amoebae under the now-defunct Kingdom Protista or (in really old books) … Kingdom Animalia. The change is because of the current trend to define taxonomic groups on evolutionary kinship. + 2 others found this useful. 
This small protozoan uses tentacular protuberances called pseudopodia to move and phagocytose smaller unicellular organisms, which are enveloped inside the cell's cytoplasm in a food vacuole, where they are slowly broken down by enzymes. Amoeba proteus is very well known for its extending pseudopodia. It occupies freshwater environments and feeds on other protozoans, algae, rotifers, and even other smaller amoebae. Due to phytochromes, A. proteus may appear in a variety of colors (often yellow, green and purple) under a microscope
Protista (Amoeba). The amoeba is a tiny, one-celled organism. You need a microscope to see most amoebas-the largest are only about 1 mm across. Amoebas live in fresh water (like puddle and ponds), in salt water, in wet soil, and in animals (including people). There are many different types of amoebas. The name amoeba comes from the Greek word amoibe, which means change.
Amoeba proteus, the common amoeba, is currently classified in Kingdom Amoebozoa. Older sources may list amoebae under the now-defunct Kingdom Protista or (in really old books) … Kingdom Animalia. The change is because of the current trend to define taxonomic groups on evolutionary kinship. Amoeba is a genus, howe … ver, all species of phylum Amoebozoa are currently called amoebae. 5 people found this useful. 1  The Five Major Parts of the Brain At its most basic, the brain controls the body. 2  Electrical impulses are sent along the nervous system to and from the brain that regulate all movement.
Printouts. The amoeba is a tiny, one-celled organism. You need a microscope to see most amoebas-the largest are only about 1 mm across. Amoebas live in fresh water (like puddles and ponds), in salt water, in wet soil, and in animals (including people). There are many different types of amoebas. 
The Amoeba proteus is a large protozoan and belongs to the Phyllum Sarcodina. It has an ever changing shape and is approximately 500-1000 um long. The Amoeba proteus can be ordered from science supply companies and is the classic specimen used in the classroom to demonstrate the pseudopods in action. Other species of amoebas are either too small, too fragile or atypical in structure.
Answers. Best Answer: ameba ameba or amoeba (both: umē'bu) [key], common name for certain one-celled organisms belonging to the phylum Sarcodina of the kingdom Protista. Amebas were previously classified as members of the animal kingdom. Most amebas are very small (from 5 to 20 microns in diameter) and contain a single nucleus. A. proteus averages 0.25 mm in length.
Amoeba proteus, previously Chaos diffluens, is an amoeba closely related to the giant amoebae and a species commonly bought at science supply stores. Amoeba proteus is very well known for its extending pseudopodia. It occupies freshwater environments and feeds on other protozoans, algae, rotifers, and even other smaller amoebae.