The term optical flow is also used by roboticists, encompassing related techniques from image processing and control of navigation including motion detection, object segmentation, time-to-contact information, focus of expansion calculations, luminance, motion compensated encoding, and stereo disparity measurement. The concept of optical flow was introduced by the American psychologist James J. Gibson in the 1940s to describe the visual stimulus provided to animals moving through the world.
1 Introduction to Optical Flow Optical ﬂow is an approximation of the local image motion based upon local derivatives in a given sequence ofimages. That is, in 2D it speciﬁes how much each imagepixel movesbetween adjacent imageswhile in 3Din speciﬁeshow much each volume voxel moves between adjacent volumes. 
Optical flow sensors are also being used in robotics applications, primarily where there is a need to measure visual motion or relative motion between the robot and other objects in the vicinity of the robot. The concept of optical flow was introduced by the American psychologist James J. Gibson in the 1940s to describe the visual stimulus provided to animals moving through the world.
Optical flow is the pattern of apparent motion of image objects between two consecutive frames caused by the movemement of object or camera. It is 2D vector field where each vector is a displacement vector showing the movement of points from first frame to second. 
An optical flow sensor is a vision sensor capable of measuring optical flow or visual motion and outputting a measurement based on optical flow. Various configurations of optical flow sensors exist. One configuration is an image sensor chip connected to a processor programmed to run an optical flow algorithm. The concept of optical flow was introduced by the American psychologist James J. Gibson in the 1940s to describe the visual stimulus provided to animals moving through the world.
Definitions of optic flow. Optic flow is defined as the change of structured light in the image, e.g. on the retina or the camera’s sensor, due to a relative motion between the eyeball or camera and the scene. Further definitions from the literature highlight different properties of optic flow. Figure 1: shows the production and detection of optic flow. a) Optic flow is generated on the retina by changes in the patterns of light. The example shows the shift of two visual features (star and hexagon) on a plane and their angular displacements on the surface of the eyeball.
Optic flow defined. The term “optic flow” refers to a visual phenomena that you experience every day. Essentially, optic flow is the apparent visual motion that you experience as you move through the world. Suppose you sitting in a car or a train, and are looking out the window. You see trees, the ground, buildings, etc., appear to move backwards. Optic flow as seen from a bird, insect, or aircraft. The figure above shows what the optic flow might look like from an aircraft flying over a rocky desert (or over Mars!). The blue arrows show the optic flow that would be seen by a camera or a passenger on the aircraft.
What is Optical flow. 1. The pattern of apparent motion of objects, surfaces, and edges in a visual scene caused by the relative motion between an observer (an eye or a camera) and the scene. Learn more in: Modeling and Visual Navigation of Autonomous Surface Vessels. Find more terms and definitions using our Dictionary Search.
Optic flow is defined as the change of structured light in the image, e.g. on the retina or the camera’s sensor, due to a relative motion between the eyeball or camera and the scene. Figure 1: shows the production and detection of optic flow. a) Optic flow is generated on the retina by changes in the patterns of light. The example shows the shift of two visual features (star and hexagon) on a plane and their angular displacements on the surface of the eyeball.