Of course, if you're still in the pavement-pounding phase of your job search, four hours per interview could easily turn into a full-time job. However, preparations for a promising interview are obviously key to getting paid the salary you want. It will be the best money you ever spend on your career. As an example. My first job out of big 4 I was making ~56k in salary. My initial offer, from a job I didn't take, was 58k.
I don't understand why people will spend 40 hours a week for 3 years to get a promotion/salary increase and not spend 4-6 hours preparing for an interview and getting a 20% or more increase in salary immediately. If you are very bad at this (you know you are) then you need to take a class/hire a coach. It will be the best money you ever spend on your career. As an example. My first job out of big 4 I was making ~56k in salary. My initial offer, from a job I didn't take, was 58k.
In this part you should also study carefully your resume. Now that you're interested in how to prepare for an interview, we've provided the theory that will help only if you put it on practice, so practice with a peer in order to structure your preparation and get used with giving concise, complete and brief answers. 
Thanks to those for voting in this weeks poll! COTJ asked readers to share how many hours they spend preparing for an interview, here’s how it went: 1  First Place: 64% 0-1. 2  Second Place: 27% 1-2. 3  Third Place: 9% 2+. Here are some factors you should consider when preparing for your interview: 1  Put strong effort into really knowing your resume. 2  Study the company. 3  Spend 10-15 minutes preparing some questions that you can ask the interviewer. 4  If lucky enough, you might even be told what to expect on the interview. 5  Write down a list of projects you’ve worked on. 6  Pra
Last updated: Tuesday, June 3, 2014. Today’s blog post features expertise by author Artie Lynnworth on how to prepare for a job interview. I asked Mr. Lynnworth the questions my clients most want to know about job interview preparation. Many people feel overwhelmed at the prospect of preparing for an interview. 
The job interview is a crucial part of your job search because it’s an opportunity for the employer to figure out if you’re right for the job. This page will provide you with information to prepare for your job interview so that you can make a positive and lasting impression. Preparing questions for the employer. At the end of an interview, you are typically asked if you have any questions about the organization or job you’re applying for. Your job interview is not only an opportunity for the employer to interview you—it’s also an opportunity for you to interview your employer.
The average female job seeker spends 53 minutes getting ready for an interview, compared to a male applicant’s 44 minutes. However, concerned about making the right impression, 42pc of men call ahead to enquire about the dress code, compared to 29pc of women. 
Consider the return on investment you will reap. Divide your annual income by the number of hours you spend preparing for the interview. At an annual income of $50,000 a year, 10 hours of preparation equates to $5,000 an hour. At $100,000, it’s $10,000 an hour. And, once you’ve become comfortable with describing your success stories and strengths, 10 hours won’t be necessary for each and every interview. Lou Adler, author of Hire with Your Head, advises his candidates to spend 10 or more hours preparing for every interview. Although some of that time will be devoted to research, a good portion should be spent verbally practicing your responses.
26 months ago. So how many hours should you prepare for an interview? I think there is no top limit on how many hours you can dedicate to job interview preparations. You could spend 15 or 20 hours on it and really beat the day lights out preparation and do a great job in your interview. The question is on the bottom end, how little time do you need to prepare for an interview. That also depends on how well prepared you are in general to tell stories about yourself. 
A job interview is one of the most drawn-out and intimidating ways of making first impression. However, it’s also your opportunity to get on an employer’s good side, which can give you a distinct edge over even those applicants whose credentials are better than yours. As a rule of thumb, you should dress for the interview the way you would for the job itself. If the job is unusually casual, however, you might want to show up in business-casual clothes, but it's always better to be formal.