(January 2008). Harmonic balancer lower pulley on a four-cylinder engine. A harmonic balancer (also called crank pulley damper, crankshaft damper, torsional damper, or vibration damper) is a device connected to the crankshaft of an engine to reduce torsional vibration and serves as a pulley for drive belts. Certain cars, however, do not come equipped with an external balancer on the crank pulley, and as such, can have the pulley replaced with a performance oriented product which counter-acts these resonance frequencies.
Harmonic Balancer. A harmonic balancer is a device that is connected to an engine’s crankshaft in order to reduce any vibration’s negative impact on the crankshaft and to dissipate the energy that shaft rotation creates. Step 2 – Remove the affixing bolts and pull the pulley off of the balancer in order to disconnect the harmonic balancer’s pulley that is attached to the balancer component’s face. Step 3 – Loosen and remove the harmonic balancer’s single retaining bolt and washer from the center of the device.
A harmonic balancer sounds like a crucial part on a spaceship in some pulpy 1950s sci-fi story, or something you need so you can play music with hobos when you're ridin' the rails. However, it's actually an important part on your engine that helps your crankshaft last as long as possible. It's also sometimes called a dampener.. However, the rubber material can deteriorate over time. So if your harmonic balancer is going bad, you could get rough engine vibrations, a cracked crankshaft, or even a serpentine belt that gets thrown off its track. Replacing one is excellent preventative maintenance, and that's exactly what we'll talk about next
These vibrations from the engine can become too much for the crankshaft to bear, causing it to fail. And when that happens, your car won't run and you'll be facing some expensive repairs. This is where the harmonic balancer comes in. It's also sometimes called a dampener.. However, the rubber material can deteriorate over time. So if your harmonic balancer is going bad, you could get rough engine vibrations, a cracked crankshaft, or even a serpentine belt that gets thrown off its track. Replacing one is excellent preventative maintenance, and that's exactly what we'll talk about next
The crankshaft harmonic balancer is connected to the crankshaft, and absorbs many of the vibrations that the engine creates. The engine creates a large amount of force that is delivered to the crankshaft, which transfers the power to the transmission. The harmonic balancer (also called “crank pulley damper”), connected to the crankshaft of an engine, reduces engine vibration and serves as a pulley for the drive belts. The balancer or “damper” is composed of two elements: a mass and an energy-dissipating element
The harmonic balancer or damper is usually a tight press-fit onto the end, or snout of the crankshaft. This is so the torsional vibrations of the crankshaft generated by the power pulses of the engine can be transmitted to-and absorbed or dissipated by-the harmonic balancer. 
To prevent this vibration, a harmonic balancer is attached to the front part of the crankshaft. The damper is composed of two elements: a mass and an energy dissipating element. The mass resists the acceleration of the vibration and the energy dissipating (rubber/clutch/fluid) element absorbs the vibrations. Certain cars, however, do not come equipped with an external balancer on the crank pulley, and as such, can have the pulley replaced with a performance oriented product which counter-acts these resonance frequencies.
A harmonic balancer reduces destructive crankshaft torsional vibration, which is the end-to-end twisting/rebound motion, that is naturally generated during each power stroke. 