Thailand is a country with a large population which is located in the continent/region of Asia. Countries near Thailand include Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam and Myanmar. Its biggest cities and towns include Bangkok, Samut Prakan, Nonthaburi and Udon Thani. 
Location of Thailand. Thailand is located in the south eastern region of the continent of Asia, missing the Equator by a little. Its immediate political neighbors are the countries of Myanmar to the north and the northwest, Laos to the northeast, Cambodia to the east and Malaysia to the south. The mountains in Thailand are restricted to the north of the country and house the highest point in Thailand-the Doi Inthanon. The east and the northeast of Thailand are dominated by the Khorat Plateau.
A continent is one of several large landmasses located on Earth There are seven continents; North AmericaSouth America Asia Europe AfricaAntarctica Australia Oceania or … Australasia are considered regions, or quasi-continents, that consist of several islands that are not, geography-speaking, part of the 7 continents. Thailand is in South-East Asia, north of Malaysia, west of Laos and Cambodia and south-east of Burma, or Myanmar. 9 people found this useful.
Thailand has been called the golf capital of Asia as it is a popular destination for golf. The country attracts a large number of golfers from Japan, Korea, Singapore, South Africa, and Western countries who come to play golf in Thailand every year. Thailand had a 2013 GDP of US$673 billion (on a purchasing power parity [PPP] basis). Thailand is the 2nd largest economy in Southeast Asia after Indonesia. Thailand ranks midway in the wealth spread in Southeast Asia as it is the 4th richest nation according to GDP per capita, after Singapore, Brunei, and Malaysia.
Thailand is located on the Asian continent. Thailand is on the continent of Asia. Thailand's location is in south east Asia with a western border  with Burma, (or Myanmar) and a North Eastern border with Laos. Far  south in the country, near Phucket, is s … ourthern border with  Malaysia. It has a long coastline, which along the west of the  country is bordering on the Andaman se
What is the relative location of Thailand? Thailand is in South-East Asia, north of Malaysia, west of Laos and Cambodia and south-east of Burma, or Myanmar. 9 people found this useful.
A continent is one of several very large landmasses on Earth. They are generally identified by convention rather than any strict criteria, with up to seven regions commonly regarded as continents. These are (from largest in size to smallest): Asia, Africa, North America, South America, Antarctica, Europe, and Australia. In geology, areas of continental crust include regions covered with water.
Phuket is a province with a small population in the country of Thailand which is located in the continent/region of Asia. Its biggest cities and towns include Phuket, Kathu, Amphoe Thalang and Amphoe Muang Thalang. 
Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Thailand, Malaysia are amongst the countries comprised in South East Asia, while Far East Asia includes China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Korea, Japan and Macao. Afghanistan, Mongolia and Azerbaijan are part of Central Asian countries, to name a few. Asia Continent Briefs: The Asian continent is the largest and most densely populated of the seven continents and can be divided into three sectors, South East Asia, Far East Asia and Central Asia.