The Southern Cassowary is a large, distinctive flightless rainforest bird, with black, hairlike feathers, large powerful feet and legs, a colourful neck and a helmet-like structure called a casque atop its head. Its scientific name (species binomial) is Casuarius casuarius johnsonii. 
Description. Of three species of cassowaries in the world, only the southern cassowary, Casuarius casuarius johnsonii, is found in Australia. Like the emu and ostrich, the southern cassowary is a ratite, a large flightless bird with unusual feathers and other features that distinguish it from all other birds. As tall as a person, with a high helmet on its head, a vivid blue neck and long drooping red wattles-this is the southern cassowary, found only in the tropical rainforests of north-east Queensland, Papua New Guinea and some surrounding islands.
The smallest and most colorful of the cassowaries, the dwarf cassowary is the only one without wattles. Instead, it has a round, purple spot where the wattles would be and bright pink spots on its cheeks. The cassowary is rightfully considered the most dangerous bird in the world! Each 3-toed foot has a dagger-like claw on the inner toe that is up to 4 inches (10 centimeters) long!
Flightless feathered family. The cassowary is a large, flightless bird most closely related to the emu. Although the emu is taller, the cassowary is the heaviest bird in Australia and the second heaviest in the world after its cousin, the ostrich. It is covered in dense, two-quilled black feathers that, from a distance, look like hair. The cassowary is rightfully considered the most dangerous bird in the world! Each 3-toed foot has a dagger-like claw on the inner toe that is up to 4 inches (10 centimeters) long!
Of the 3 species of cassowaries in the world, only the southern cassowary, (Casuarius casuarius johnsonii), is found in Australia. Like the emu and ostrich, the southern cassowary is a ratite, a large flightless bird with unusual feathers and other features that distinguish it from all other birds. The purpose of the casque is unknown but it may indicate dominance and age, as it continues to grow throughout life. Recent research indicates it may also help cassowaries in ‘hearing’ the low vibrating sound made by other cassowaries.
Cassowaries are large, flightless birds that are related to emus and found only in Australia and New Guinea (2). The southern cassowary has a glossy black plumage and a bright blue neck, with red colouring at the nape (3). Two wattles of bare, red coloured skin hang down from the throat. Southern cassowary. Learn more about this article. The southern cassowary (Casuarius casuarius) also known as double-wattled cassowary, Australian cassowary or two-wattled cassowary, is a large flightless black bird. It is a ratite and therefore related to the emu, ostrich, and the genus Rhea. (See also dwarf cassowary and northern cassowary .)
Cassowary. The cassowary belongs to the genus Casuarius and is very large flightless bird found in the native to the tropical forests northeastern Australia and New Guinea. Some nearby islands also have small populations, but it is not known if these are natural or the result of the New Guinea trade in young birds. The striking bird has a glossy black plumage, and the adult southern cassowary has a tall, brown casque (helmet) on top of its head, a vivid blue neck and long drooping red wattles. The purpose of the casque is unknown but it may indicate dominance and age, as it continues to grow throughout life.
The cassowary, the dinosaur bird of the Australian rainforests, looks like a massive prehistoric turkey walking on stilts with a huge helmet on its head. The Guinness Book of Records lists it as the world's most dangerous bird. While the cute and cuddly Kola gets the all attention, the oddball cassowary, which is actually far more endangered than the koala, gets little funding and attention. With only 1,500 still left in the wild, this endangered rainforest bird faces certain extinction. It may not be long before it goes the way of the dodo.
The bony plate on a cassowary's head is called a helmet. It is not actually known what the helmet is used for, but there are several theories. The most likely theory is that, … because the helmet continues to grow throughout the cassowary's life, it could be a sign of dominance.