exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Isadora Duncan. Confidence votes 51.8K. Anthracite is a teal-grey color but can range anywhere from black, to blue to grey and green. Anthracite is a hard, compact mineral coal that has a high luster and carbon content. 1 Easy Homemade Crafts for Gift Ideas Whether your budget is strained or you're just looking for a personal touch, some of the best gifts are homemade.
In the green series varieties the SF Anthracite Light Green has one Anthracite allele and one wild-type allele at the Anthracite locus. This darkens the body colour to a shade somewhat deeper than a Dark Green. The Anthracite budgerigar mutation is an extremely rare mutation that occurs in the budgerigar. The mutation, similar to the Violet budgerigar mutation, causes a difference in the coloring of budgerigars.
Anthracite accounts for about 1% of global coal reserves, and is mined in only a few countries around the world. China accounts for the majority of global production; other producers are Russia, Ukraine, North Korea, South Africa, Vietnam, the UK, Australia and the US. Anthracite ignites with difficulty and burns with a short, blue, and smokeless flame. Anthracite is categorized into standard grade, which is used mainly in power generation, and high grade (HG) and ultra high grade (UHG) , the principal uses of which are in the metallurgy sector.
RAL 7016 / Anthracite grey / #293133 Hex Color Code. The hexadecimal color code #293133 is a dark shade of cyan. In the RGB color model #293133 is comprised of 16.08% red, 19.22% green and 20% blue. In the HSL color space #293133 has a hue of 192 degrees, 10.87% saturation and 18.04% lightness. This color has an approximate wavelength of 499 nm. RAL 7016 / Anthracite grey is a matching paint color
Full Definition of ANTHRACITE. : a hard natural coal of high luster differing from bituminous coal in containing little volatile matter and in burning very cleanly —called also hard coal. — an·thra·cit·ic \ˌan(t)-thrə-ˈsi-tik\ adjective. See anthracite defined for English-language learners. See anthracite defined for kids. 
Anthracite is a hard, compact variety of coal that has a high luster. It has the highest carbon content, the fewest impurities, and the highest calorific content of all types of coal, which also include bituminous coal and lignite. Anthracite ignites with difficulty and burns with a short, blue, and smokeless flame. Anthracite is categorized into standard grade, which is used mainly in power generation, and high grade (HG) and ultra high grade (UHG) , the principal uses of which are in the metallurgy sector.
Anthracite is the most metamorphosed type of coal (but still represents low-grade metamorphism), in which the carbon content is between 92.1% and 98%. The term is applied to those varieties of coal which do not give off tarry or other hydrocarbon vapours when heated below their point of ignition. Anthracite ignites with difficulty and burns with a short, blue, and smokeless flame. Anthracite is categorized into standard grade, which is used mainly in power generation, and high grade (HG) and ultra high grade (UHG) , the principal uses of which are in the metallurgy sector.
I had a Rover Coupe in Anthracite. Odd colour, looked black in murky weather but get the sun on it and it had blue and metallic grey in it. Along with a nice sparkle. 
Corian® Anthracite. Corian® Anthracite is a deep rich charcoal with a subtle texture created by tiny, reflective particles. Share. 