Graduate students apply for this award through the College of Humanities. This scholarship is awarded each year either to a student graduating from the College of Humanities or to a first year graduate student in the college. The awards are given to students in either Humanities or Business. The College of Humanities is pleased to announce the availability of a Graduate Research Award in the Humanities. Student research or creative works must be conducted at the University of Utah and be published or accepted for publication between 2013 and 2015.
The mission of most departments of Humanities is to provide students with enlightened liberal arts disciplines with the goal of creating insightful participants in society who are well-rounded, skilled in reading, writing, thought and speech, and who possess an eye for integration of the academics. Other Opportunities. There may be other chances for Humanities-specific scholarships if you contact the department coordinator of your chosen school and inquire personally about what is available. State your commitment to the major and make it clear that you are unwavering.
Humanities students enrolled at Montana State University-Northern in Billings may apply for the Jane Buttrey Memorial Scholarship. Seven of these awards are given annually to Humanities majors who best combine financial need and academic excellence. This scholarship is only available to undergraduates. Other Opportunities. There may be other chances for Humanities-specific scholarships if you contact the department coordinator of your chosen school and inquire personally about what is available. State your commitment to the major and make it clear that you are unwavering.
Traditionally, the Humanities umbrella has included the subjects of history, English and the foreign languages. Scholars consider these disciplines to be the traditional foundation of our modern liberal arts education and they remain the essential groundwork for much other academic study. Other Opportunities. There may be other chances for Humanities-specific scholarships if you contact the department coordinator of your chosen school and inquire personally about what is available. State your commitment to the major and make it clear that you are unwavering.
Each year the College of Humanities is pleased to offer the following scholarships to deserving students enrolled in disciplines across the College. These scholarships have been made possible by the generosity of alumni and donors who have demonstrated a long-standing interest in education and the Humanities. 
Scholars in the humanities are humanity scholars or humanists. The term humanist also describes the philosophical position of humanism, which some  antihumanist  scholars in the humanities refuse. The Renaissance scholars and artists were also called humanists. The Commission on the Humanities and Social Sciences 2013 report The Heart of the Matter supports the notion of a broad  liberal arts education , which includes study in disciplines from the natural sciences to the arts as well as the humanities.
English Merit Scholarship. The English Merit Scholarship is a $500 per semester scholarship awarded to students with a declared major in English. The student must have a 3.7 high school GPA or a 3.5 college cumulative GPA with no less than a B in any English course. One recipient is chosen each year, and the scholarship is renewable up to four semesters for a total of $2000. 
SFSU also boosts a number of other, smaller scholarships in its Humanities department, including the Carolyn Irene Howard Memorial Scholarship for $500 and the Judith Anne Ott Scholarship for $500. See the Humanities department for more information on applying for these. Other Opportunities. There may be other chances for Humanities-specific scholarships if you contact the department coordinator of your chosen school and inquire personally about what is available. State your commitment to the major and make it clear that you are unwavering.
The humanities are academic disciplines that study human culture. The humanities use methods that are primarily critical, or speculative, and have a significant historical element —as distinguished from the mainly empirical approaches of the natural sciences. The Commission on the Humanities and Social Sciences 2013 report The Heart of the Matter supports the notion of a broad  liberal arts education , which includes study in disciplines from the natural sciences to the arts as well as the humanities.
Community Scholarships for Diversity. The College of Humanities, with the support from members of the community, is committed to creating scholarships to help first-generation college students succeed in obtaining their undergraduate degrees and prepare for their future pursuits. The College of Humanities is pleased to announce the availability of a Graduate Research Award in the Humanities. Student research or creative works must be conducted at the University of Utah and be published or accepted for publication between 2013 and 2015.