The Harlem Renaissance, which is also known as the Black Literary Renaissance and The New Negro Movement, began in the neighborhood of Harlem in New York City in which the spi … rituality and potential of the African-American community was articulated through different forms of artistic expression.
The Harlem Renaissance was the name given to the cultural, social, and artistic explosion that took place in Harlem between the end of World War I and the middle of the 1930s. During this period Harlem was a cultural center, drawing black writers, artists, musicians, photographers, poets, and scholars.
The Harlem Renaissance, also referred to as The New Negro Movement, has been described in a multitude of ways. It has been called a blossoming of African American culture especially in the creative arts, a flowering of African American intellectual life, andthe efflorescence of African-American cultural production.
Spanning the 1920s to the mid-1930s, the Harlem Renaissance was a literary, artistic, and intellectual movement that kindled a new black cultural identity.
W.E. B. Du Bois, influential editor of The Crisis from 1910 to 1934 started the Renaissance. DuBois believed that an educated Black elite should lead Blacks to liberation. He further believed that his people could not achieve social equality by emulating white ideals.
During the Harlem Renaissance, African-American artists such as Langston Hughes, Countee Cullen, Claude McKay, Zora Neale Hurston, and Jean Toomer revolutionized literature with their innovative forms and unique subjects.
Posted on. (Answer #1). A major element which led to the Harlem Renaissance was the Great Migration during and shortly after World War I when large numbers of Black Americans moved to the North.Between 1910-1920, the Southeast lost 323,000 blacks; five percent of the native black population.
Confidence votes 26. The Harlem Renaissance, which is also known as the Black Literary Renaissance and The New Negro Movement, began in the neighborhood of Harlem in New York City in which the spirituality and potential of the African-American community was articulated through different forms of artistic expression.