Text. The Helix Bridge. Height:8.8 meter above water Weight: 1770 tons which is equivalent of over 1100 saloon vehicles Cost: $83 million Length:280 meters long Type: How much it holds: 16,000 people What it holds: It hold Pedestrians and right beside it is a six-lane bridge for cars. 
Helix Bridge is the longest pedestrian bridge in Singapore. Opened in April 2010, the bridge has a distinctive double helix structure modelled on the structure of DNA. It overlooks Marina Bay, forming a curve next to the vehicular Bayfront Bridge and a youth art park, and connecting Marina Centre with Marina South. Helix Bridge is only 280m long. However, the total length of the stainless steel tubes that make up the double helix structure is almost 10 times as long when laid out end to end.
The Helix Bridge, previously known as the Double Helix Bridge, is a pedestrian bridge linking Marina Centre with Marina South in the Marina Bay area in Singapore. It was officially opened on 24 April 2010 at 9 pm, however only half was opened due to ongoing construction at the Marina Bay Sands. The 280 m bridge is made up of three 65 m spans and two 45 m end spans. If the steel were stretched out straight from end to end, it would measure 2.25 km in length.
The Helix Bridge provides a pedestrian connection across the head of the Singapore River between the city’s existing CBD and its new Bayfront district. Its commission was the result of a selected 36-entry international design competition held in 2006. Cost / Value Arup found that for its 280 metre length, the dual helix structure utilises 5 times less steel than a conventional box girder bridge. This finding enabled the client to direct the structure to be constructed entirely of stainless steel for its longevity.
The double helix design is a world first for a bridge. One advantage of such a design was that less steel was used compared to box girders or cable bridges. This saved millions of dollars in construction costs. Construction on the bridge started in 2007. The bridge cost an estimated S$68 million in total. Helix Bridge is only 280m long. However, the total length of the stainless steel tubes that make up the double helix structure is almost 10 times as long when laid out end to end.
On a cost-per-metre basis, it is actually more expensive. The 280m-long Helix bridge cost $69 million to build, compared with the $40 million to span the 150m of the Torrens. Source: Supplied. That's $27,000 less per metre to build the Helix Bridge. 
The 280 m long bridge is the first double-helix bridge in the world and forms part of a 3.5 km continuous waterfront promenade, linking the Marina Centre, the waterfront area and a large casino/hotel resort. It is a very lightweight structure built almost entirely using duplex stainless steel. For the Helix Bridge, the cost of the duplex stainless steel was equivalent to the potential costs of using carbon steel. The amount of stainless steel required was significantly below that which would have been needed for a carbon steel bridge.
The Helix Bridge: Marina Bay, Singapore. Clever, beautiful and inspiring. Singapore's double helix bridge is 280 meters long, made of a special stainless steel, lovingly assembled over two years with great precision. Despite being just two years old is already being touted as an architectural marvel and engineering feat.
On a cost-per-metre basis, it is actually more expensive. The 280m-long Helix bridge cost $69 million to build, compared with the $40 million to span the 150m of the Torrens. Source: Supplied. That’s $27,000 less per metre to build the Helix Bridge. And what’s more, the spectacular bridge was primarily designed by Australians. 