Male’ is the capital city of the Maldives and the seat of the executive, legislature and judicial branches of the government of the Maldives.
“ If you are traveling to the Maldives we highly recommend checking out the capital. Very different experience from the resorts and truly gives you a flavor for the local culture. This is a nice hotel so if you like to travel in comfort its probably your best option for the city of Male.
Discover Maldives. Welcome to the Maldives, where sands are white as the smiles of the locals, where fish swim happily in the warm waters of the Indian Ocean, where the weather is a dream, and the deep rays of the sun waits to engulf you in their arms.
1 Cruise booking (Cruise-Maldives.com), 'Backpackers Maldives Maldives Pvt', Male', Republic of Maldives, ☎ (+960)7702344 (sales@cruise-maldives.com). 2  Maldives budget cruises operator for group and individuals, half day & full day excursions to sandbank, local islands, snorkeling trips, fishing trips.
Male Malé. City’ male is the capital city of The maldives and the seat of the, executive legislature and judicial branches of the government of The. Maldives’ male is also the financial and commercial capital of the. country
From Male, resorts all around the Maldives pick people up and whisk them to their idyllic shores. If you are in the Maldives for longer than a few days, you should consider leaving Male and checking out another island.
Male (malé), މާލ Pronounced-mah, lay is the capital Of. Maldives the city occupies the entire islet Of male malé and is located at the southern Rim Of North. male atoll
[ˈmɑːlɛ] Maldivian: މާލެ) is the capital and most populous city in the Republic of Maldives. With a population of 153,379 and an area of 5.8 km 2, it is also one of the most densely populated cities in the world. The city is geographically located at the southern edge of North Male Malé (Atoll Kaafu). atoll
Male Malé. City’ male is the capital city of The maldives and the seat of the, executive legislature and judicial branches of the government of The. maldives