For example, one house would represent the aristocracy, and the other would represent the commoners. The bicameral legislature of the United States is housed in the Capitol, a building with two wings. The north wing (left) houses the Senate, while the south wing (right) houses the House of Representatives. The Founding Fathers of the United States also favoured a bicameral legislature. The idea was to have the Senate be wealthier and wiser. Benjamin Rush saw this though, and noted that, this type of dominion is almost always connected with opulence..
A bicameral legislature simply refers to a particular body of government that consists of two legislative houses or chambers. In certain variations, a bicameral system may include two parliamentary chambers. The overall purpose behind bicameral legislature is to provide for representation for both the citizens of a country, as well as the state legislatures on the federal level or in the central government of a country or nation.
The Constitution created a bicameral national legislature—that is, a Congress composed of two separate chambers, the Senate and the House of Representatives. The Senate, sometimes called the upper house, is smaller (currently 100 seats) and its members serve longer terms (six years). Each state, no matter how large or small, has equal representation (two seats each) in the Senate. The House of Representatives, a.k.a. the lower house, is much larger (currently 435 seats) and its members serve much shorter terms (two years).
It was a compromise worked out by Ben Franklin, between those who wanted all states to be equal, and those who wanted representation based on population. The creation of a bicameral legislature was the perfect compromise. One chamber (the senate) treated all states equally, 2 senators each, regardless of population. The other chamber (House of Representatives) had its number of reps determined by a state's population. Hope this helps
Key Takeaways. The framers provided for a bicameral legislative branch with equal representation in the Senate and proportional representation based on state population in the House. The two bodies differ in a number of important ways that influence the way that they operate. The founders established Congress as a bicameral legislatureCongress consists of two bodies: (1) the House of Representatives whose membership is based on proportional representation and (2) the Senate, whose membership is based on equal representation. as a check against tyranny.
The United States Congress is the bicameral legislature of the federal government of the United States consisting of two houses: the Senate and the House of Representatives. The Congress meets in the Capitol in Washington, D.C. 
One reason a bicameral legislature was needed was because of an ongoing debate about representation during the Philadelphia (Constitutional) Convention in 1787. Large and smal … l states had prolonged debates regarding how to represent each of the states' needs in Congress. The U.S. Congress is bicameral legislature, because it is a two-house legislature; Senate and the House of Representatives. 8 people found this useful.
Answered by The Community. Making the world better, one answer at a time. The U.S. Constitution provided for a bicameral congress. The Senate was meant to represent the states, and the House of Representatives was designed to represent the people. The U.S. Congress is bicameral legislature, because it is a two-house legislature; Senate and the House of Representatives. 8 people found this useful.
Article I establishes Congress, which is to become the ruling body of the Legislative Branch. Congress is a bicameral legislature, consisting of two Houses, known as the Senate and the House of Representatives. The First Article is divided into ten sections, each addressing aspects of the Legislative Branch in terms of composition, member eligibility, and duties. The Senate also has the power to try Federal officials that are impeached by the House of Representatives. Another important factor of the First Article of the Constitution, besides creating and enumerating powers for Congress, is that it also implements limits of power of the States.