An asymmetric carbon is also known as a chirality center. We will see that atoms other than carbon, such as nitrogen and phosphorus, can be chirality centers—when they are bonded to four different atoms or groups (Section 5.17). In other words, an asymmetric carbon is just one kind of chirality center. A chirality center also belongs to a broader group known as stereocenters.
Abstract. Chiral diphosphine ligands analogous to bdpp have been synthesized and tested in order to study the effect of the electronic nature of the ligands in Rh-catalyzed asymmetric hydrogenation of some prochiral olefins. The results are compared with those obtained with the analogous unsubstituted ligand (bdpp). Electronic and steric effects in the rhodium diphosphinite catalyzed asymmetric hydrogenation were investigated. A series of electronically and sterically modified (S)-BINOL and (S)-H 8 -BINOL ligands was synthesized and the effects on the catalytic performance were studied.
Rhodium, the first metal to be used in a homogeneous asymmetric hydrogenation, continues to be widely used. Targets for asymmetric hydrogenation with rhodium generally require a coordinating group close to the olefin. One of these is in the asymmetric hydrogenation of N-unfunctionalized imines to give primary amines. Such species can be difficult to selectively reduce because they tend to exist in complex equilibria of imine and enamine tautomers, as well as (E) and (Z) isomers.
Asymmetric hydrogenation is a chemical reaction that adds two atoms of hydrogen preferentially to one of two faces of an unsaturated substrate molecule, such as an alkene or ketone. One of these is in the asymmetric hydrogenation of N-unfunctionalized imines to give primary amines. Such species can be difficult to selectively reduce because they tend to exist in complex equilibria of imine and enamine tautomers, as well as (E) and (Z) isomers.
Not only can objects be chiral, molecules can be chiral, too. The feature that most often is the cause of chirality in a molecule is an asymmetric carbon. (Other features that cause chirality are relatively uncommon and are beyond the scope of this book. We will see that atoms other than carbon, such as nitrogen and phosphorus, can be chirality centers—when they are bonded to four different atoms or groups (Section 5.17). In other words, an asymmetric carbon is just one kind of chirality center. A chirality center also belongs to a broader group known as stereocenters.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Asymmetric hydrogenation is a chemical reaction that adds two atoms of hydrogen preferentially to one of two faces of an unsaturated substrate molecule, such as an alkene or ketone. The selectivity derives from the manner that the substrate binds to the chiral catalysts. In jargon, this binding transmits spatial information (what chemists refer to as chirality) from the catalyst to the target, favoring the product as a single enantiomer. One of these is in the asymmetric hydrogenation of N-unfunctionalized imines to give primary amines. Such species can be difficult to selectively reduce because they tend to exist in complex equilibria of imine and enamine tautomers, as well as (E) and (Z) isomers.
This can meet the criteria for enantioselective synthesis when a new chiral species is created, such as in an SN2 reaction. Chiral pool synthesis is especially attractive for target molecules having similar chirality to a relatively inexpensive naturally occurring building-block such as a sugar or amino acid. A chiral auxiliary is an organic compound which couples to the starting material to form new compound which can then undergo enantioselective reactions via intramolecular asymmetric induction. At the end of the reaction the auxiliary is removed, under conditions that will not cause racemization of the product.
Enantioselective synthesis is a key process in modern chemistry and is particularly important in the field of pharmaceuticals, as the different enantiomers or diastereomers of a molecule often have different biological activity. A chiral auxiliary is an organic compound which couples to the starting material to form new compound which can then undergo enantioselective reactions via intramolecular asymmetric induction. At the end of the reaction the auxiliary is removed, under conditions that will not cause racemization of the product.