Dolphins tend to like areas that have warmer temperatures too. However, sometimes they are found in colder water due to the need for food. It is very interesting to see some places where they live. Studies show that the habitat of the dolphin is quite diversified due to environmental factors and food accessibility. They are very smart creatures and have the intelligence to modify their habitat when possible for survival. For example, the Bottlenose Dolphin is found in all of the oceans. Some of the dolphins out there are found in much smaller habitat locations. For example, the Yangtze River Dolphin is primarily found in freshwater around the Yangtze River in China. Hector’s Dolphins are found around the coastal areas of New Zealand
Dolphins are widely known for their high levels of intelligence. These marine mammals are extremely popular due to their friendly nature. Here is a look at the dolphin habitat and areas where you might actually spot this intelligent being. As we all know, dolphins have a special relation with humans. Their high intelligence level has only helped to establish a stronger connection with man. There are around forty species of dolphins all over the world
Here are some of the most absorbing dolphin facts for kids including its diet, species, reproduction and where does it live. Dolphins are the close relatives of whales and propoises. There is a significant difference in sizes of several dolphin species. They belong to the family of Delphinidae. Biologists maintain that some of the species believed to have been evolved some 10 million years ago.
All dolphin species have a blowhole. Dolphins have very good vision, and they are able to see what is around them both in the water and when they are above the surface of it. They have excellent hearing too, with the ability to hear about 10 times better than humans. Dolphins are very intelligent and they seem to be well loved by humans. This aquatic mammal has been able to fascinate us in a variety of ways. They are curious, form strong bonds within their pod, and they have been known to help humans in a variety of circumstances including rescues and with fishing.
Fast Facts. Size: The familiar bottlenose dolphin is around 8 feet (2.5m) long and weighs between 440-660 lbs (200-300kg). Because the forty species of dolphins are so diverse, they range in size. The smallest of the dolphin species, Maui's Dolphin, is around 4 feet (1.2m) long and weighs around 90 lbs (40 kg). The largest dolphin species is the orca, or killer whale. Male orcas grow to about 25 feet in length and weigh about 19,000 pounds. Lifespan: Most dolphins live long lives. The bottlenose dolphin can live over 40 years, and the orca can live to be 70 or 80!
Dolphins are found living in bodies of water around the world. They are found in all of the oceans, and they are a common attraction for people to come see. Dolphins are known as being gentle creatures and there is a type of mystic curiosity surrounding them too. Some of the dolphins out there are found in much smaller habitat locations. For example, the Yangtze River Dolphin is primarily found in freshwater around the Yangtze River in China. Hector’s Dolphins are found around the coastal areas of New Zealand
Some dolphin species have all they need where they are at so migrating isn’t part of their lifestyle. Others will embark on a journey of hundreds of miles to be able to successfully survive. Chinese White Dolphin in waters of Southeast Asia. There are small habitat locations where some dolphins are found to reside. The Yangtze River Dolphin is one that is found around the Yangtze River in China. Around New Zealand, you will find the Hector’s Dolphins. They are living in the warmer water of the various oceans. They can also live in the deeper bodies of water when they need to in order to survive. Dolphins can be very susceptible to disease, bacteria, and more in their natural habitat. Even touching humans can be harmful to their skin.
Distribution and Habitat. 1  Dolphins inhabit almost all the major waters of the world but they usually avoid living in extreme cold waters such as North and South Poles; however, a few types such as orcas, do live there. Dolphins are the close relatives of whales and propoises. There is a significant difference in sizes of several dolphin species. They belong to the family of Delphinidae. Biologists maintain that some of the species believed to have been evolved some 10 million years ago.
Help protect dolphins and their habitat by adopting a wild bottlenose dolphin. Join our dolphin family and help build a better future for these magnificent creatures living in our oceans. Your support will help our important conservation and research efforts. 