Cause of cauliflower ear. Cauliflower ear is, usually, caused by damage to the ear such as a powerful hit or recurring hits to the ear. These result in the clotting of the blood or hematoma that stops the blood and nutrients from flowing. The ear’s skin, when pulled away from the semi-rigid cartilage can also cause
Cartilage damage may also result from piercing the upper ear in the cartilage. Piercing can lead to a type of ear cartilage infection called auricular perichondritis, which can result in cauliflower ear. An even more rare cause of cauliflower ear is from the inflammation of cartilage in relapsing polychondritis. Wrestlers, boxers, and martial artists in particular are susceptible to this type of injury, therefore, cauliflower ear is also sometimes called boxer's ear or wrestler's ear.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Cauliflower ear (complication of hematoma auris, perichondrial hematoma, or traumatic auricular hematoma) is a condition that occurs when the external portion of the ear suffers a blow, blood clot or other collection of fluid under the perichondrium. This separates the cartilage from the overlying perichondrium that supplies its nutrients, causing it to die and resulting in the formation of fibrous tissue in the overlying skin. As a result, the outer ear becomes permanently swollen and deformed, resembling a cauliflower.
Cauliflower ear, or “hematoma auris”, is a collection of blood between the cartilage of the ear and the skin. When the ear lobe is repetitively struck or bent, as in taking a helmet on and off, the underlying cartilage is traumatized. A blood clot forms under the skin separating the skin from the underlying cartilage. Cauliflower ear is a very preventable condition seen commonly in wrestling and other contact sports. Prevention and early treatment is the best step to beating cauliflower ear.
Usually, cauliflower ear is related to sports injuries, but not always. Any trauma to the ear can cause it. Cauliflower ear can even be the result of an infection in the ear lobe. When blood flow is blocked, the affected cartilage may die and, without the supportive tissue, fold in on itself. Scar tissue may form, contributing to a swollen and deformed look. Causes of Cauliflower Ear. The most common cause of cauliflower ear is a hit to the ear -- or repeated hits to the ear -- that leads to hematomas, or small collections of blood that clot and block the flow of blood and nutrients. These can also occur when skin is pulled away from cartilage, the semi-rigid tissue that gives the ear its shape
Cauliflower ear is when there is a deformity of the ear due to injury or blunt trauma. Untreated injury of the ear causes blockage that damages the tissue and stop the blood from flowing in the ear. This results in a lumpy appearance on a part of the ear that looks like a cauliflower. Cauliflower ear is, usually, caused by damage to the ear such as a powerful hit or recurring hits to the ear. These result in the clotting of the blood or hematoma that stops the blood and nutrients from flowing.
Cauliflower ear is an acquired deformity of the external ear to which wrestlers and boxers are particularly vulnerable. The condition itself is the result of untreated or poorly treated auricular hematoma. 
Cauliflower ear is medically known as an auricular hematoma. The external ear is made of cartilage and it is the shape of the cartilage that gives the ear its distinctive shell-like shape. The cartilage is lined by perichondrium, a tight layer of connective tissue. Auricular hematoma/cauliflower ear occurs when the ear cartilage is injured (from a blow or other form of trauma). Trauma results in fluid or blood collecting between the perichondrium and the cartilage. This blood or fluid can become permanent and scarred, resulting in the appearance of cauliflower ear
In this article. The term cauliflower ear refers to a deformity of the ear caused by blunt trauma or other injury, such as what may occur during a boxing or wrestling match. Left untreated, the injury leads to a blockage that prevents blood flow and damages tissue. Causes of Cauliflower Ear. The most common cause of cauliflower ear is a hit to the ear -- or repeated hits to the ear -- that leads to hematomas, or small collections of blood that clot and block the flow of blood and nutrients. These can also occur when skin is pulled away from cartilage, the semi-rigid tissue that gives the ear its shap