Common Types of Yucca Plants. 1  Yucca baccata. 2  Also known as Banana Yucca due to the shape of its fruits; these can be eaten and baked like a sweet potato. “ 3 Datil yucca” is the other term for this variant in some locations as the plant has some resemblance to an agave. 1 Yucca rigida. 2  A beautiful yucca palm that is also called as Blue yucca plant or Palmilla due to its striking blue-gray leaves; these go well with its creamy yellow flower clusters. 3  It is known to be enduring of zones eight to ten, and has also been reported as surviving the Phoenix, Arizona winters.
Choose a location that receives full sun. Yucca plants need a hot, dry environment, so give your plant access to direct sunlight. Certain yucca species can thrive in colder or shadier locations, but these are in the minority, and typically still do well in full sunlight. The yucca plant is a tough perennial shrub. There are actually many species of yucca, but while they vary in size and color, they are all able to thrive in hot, dry climates and can be cared for the same way. The plants are easiest to start from cuttings, although growing from seeds is possible
1 Several types of yucca plants have edible flowers and fruit, including the banana yucca and soapweed yucca. 2  Yucca roots and leaves contain steroidal saponins, an anti-inflammatory agent used to relieve arthritis symptoms. 3  It is also thought to purify and cleanse the blood, kidneys and heart. Advertisement. 1  Yucca plants are not only grown outdoors in the landscape but they make lovely additions in the home when grown as houseplants. 2 
More than 30 species of yucca grow in Texas. Yucca infests some 19 million acres of rangeland, mostly in the western two-thirds of the state. Some species are considered desireable. For example, Spanish dagger is an attractive plant and both deer and livestock relish its flowers and fruits. Species such as twisted leaf yucca may need to be controlled. A Yucca plant has one or more whorls of leaves with a common root crown. yucca leaves are long, straight, very sharp-pointed, very fibrous, and covered with a thick layer of wax.
Growing Yucca Plant Indoors. More than 20 species of yucca exist. Coloration on yucca plants range from green to bluish with variegations of cream, yellow and white, depending on the cultivar. Yucca plants grow on canes, or large, woody stems. Once placed in a sunny to partly shaded location indoors, yucca houseplant care is easy.
By Jackie Carroll. Large, spiky leaves and large clusters of white flowers make yucca plants ideal for many landscape settings. The twenty or so yucca plant varieties that are native to the United States. feature bold architectural shapes, adding contrast to many other garden plants. Advertisement. 1  Yucca plants are not only grown outdoors in the landscape but they make lovely additions in the home when grown as houseplants. 2  Several types of yucca plants have edible flowers and fruit, including the banana yucca and soapweed yucca.
The natural distribution range of the genus Yucca (49 species and 24 subspecies) covers a vast area of North and Central America. From Baja California in the west, northwards into the southwestern United States, through the drier central states as far north as Alberta in Canada (Yucca glauca ssp. albertana). Dried yucca leaves and trunk fibers have a low ignition temperature, making the plant desirable for use in starting fires via friction. In rural Appalachian areas, species such as Yucca filamentosa are referred to as meat hangers.
Submit. Yucca plants are hardy, evergreen shrubs with long, sword-like leaves. Some are short and compact, while others are more tree-like in appearance. Yuccas feature large groups of white, trumpet or bell-shaped flowers. There are several different types of yucca plants, which range from potted indoor plants to large trees. All are drought-tolerant perennials and many are native to the southeastern United States.
Yucca species are the host plants for the caterpillars of the yucca giant-skipper (Megathymus yuccae), ursine giant-skipper (Megathymus ursus), and Strecker's giant-skipper (Megathymus streckeri). Dried yucca leaves and trunk fibers have a low ignition temperature, making the plant desirable for use in starting fires via friction. In rural Appalachian areas, species such as Yucca filamentosa are referred to as meat hangers.