The unisex name Brooke is a common female given name, also used as a surname. Other forms of Brooke include Brook. Its meaning is a brook or a stream. It is a variant of the name Brook. People with this name include: 1  Brooke Adams, American actress. 2  Brooke Alexander, Beauty queen and American actress. 3  Brooke Anderson, CNN news anchor. 4  Brooke Armstrong, fictional character from Melrose Place.
There is not one, but two meanings to the names Brook and Brooke. The first is listed, while the second is to mean 'beautiful pool of tears.'. Long before the medieval times the brook was thought to be a significantly smaller body of water than we do now, comparable to what we now refer to as a puddle. Boring name, boring meaning. Brooke simply means a small stream-BORING! I like meanings that are personalities, that actually describe a person! I feel sorry for all the Brookes out there, they're being described as a stream! Ick.
Brooke is a given name. It is a variant of the name Brook. People with this name include: 1  Brooke Adams, American actress. 2  Brooke Alexander, Beauty queen and American actress. 3  Brooke Anderson, CNN news anchor. 4  Brooke Armstrong, fictional character from Melrose Place.
Variant of BROOK. The name came into use in the 1950s, probably influenced by American socialite Brooke Astor (1902-2007). It was further popularized by actress Brooke Shields (1965-). 
English Meaning: The name Brooke is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Brooke is: Lives by the stream. SoulUrge Number: 8. Expression Number: 3. People with this name have a deep inner desire to lead, organize, supervise, and to achieve status, power and wealth. People with this name tend to be creative and excellent at expressing themselves.
My middle name is Brooke and it has always been the name that I have gone by also. Brooke has been a family name that has been used for both males and females for many, many years. I was born in 1950 and no one had ever heard the name before. My name is Crystal Brooke, but I have always gone by my middle name. My parents wanted to call me Brooke, but said they had a hard time finding a middle name that went well with it, so they just used it as my middle name. I have always been called Brookie or Brookie Boo.
Personal experiences with the name Brooke: | Edit. My middle name is Brooke, but it is the name I go by. I really like my name but a common thing to happen is that people will spell it Brook. And I say no, there's and e. Like Brooke with an e. And they say it is like Anne with an e. I named my daughter Brooke. My name is Crystal Brooke, but I have always gone by my middle name. My parents wanted to call me Brooke, but said they had a hard time finding a middle name that went well with it, so they just used it as my middle name. I have always been called Brookie or Brookie Boo.
Brooke /broo-ke/ [1 syll.] as a girls' name (also used less regularly as boys' name Brooke) is pronounced bruk. It is of Old English and Old German origin, and the meaning of Brooke is  water, small stream . Also a surname. Brooke is a very popular first name for females (#397 out of 4276, Top 9%) and also a very popular last name for both adults and children (#6608 out of 150436, Top 4%). (2000 U.S. Census). Charted below is the birth name popularity of Brooke for girls
Etymology & Historical Origin-Brooke. Brooke is widely regarded as a female personal name today, but at one point in time it was used on both genders. It originated as the transferred use of a surname from the Olde English “broc” bróc referring to a brook or. stream 