In 1821, a mail route was authorized from Hog Mountain to Gainesville. In the 1830's, Friendship Baptist Church was established and the church was built in 1844/45 and with it the establishment of the Friendship Community. It was to follow the Middle Cherokee Trading Path and became known as the Federal Road or Georgia Road. In South Hall, the dividing line between nations was at the intersection of Radford/Falcon Parkway, Flowery Branch, GA. West of there the route followed Radford/Old Federal Parkway/Thompson Bridge Rd.
The military fort erected near Hog Mountain was the result of the early settlement's being surrounded by Cherokee Indians who were at that time loyal to the British. The construction of Peachtree Road in 1813 made this community a center of trade and commerce. The Hog Mountain House was the first hotel in the county. It was erected by Shadrack Bogan, who married Ann Fee in Augusta and moved to Hog Mountain in 1815. Bogan also owned a store which was a trading post for whites and Indians. The Hog Mountain House was known for its hospitality, comfortable beds and good food.
Just five years ago, another resident moved from DeKalb County to Hog Mountain for the peace and quiet. He says he counted just a few cars a day passing by his property. Now, the traffic is constant, due in part to the nearby Mall of Georgia, which opened about two years ago. He did well while operating his trading post and The Hog Mountain House was known far and wide for its hospitality, comfortable beds and good food.The firm of Moore and Maltbie had been operating a trading post several years before Shadrack Bogan settled at Hog Mountain.
They include marriage records, divorce records, court records, birth records, death records and many more. In Hog Mountain, GA records are kept mostly on physical files. There is a great rise in the use of electronic copies that are available on the internet. You are advised to look into entries of each record to find out more information on how to obtain them. For example, certain Hog Mountain public records such as death certificates are only available to close family members and other interest parties until a certain amount of time have passed. Other examples of restricted access include the court cases of minor or delinquents.
All the territory west of Hog Mountain and the Appalachee River was in the possession of the Cherokee Indians who were allies of the British Empire, our enemy in this war. He did well while operating his trading post and The Hog Mountain House was known far and wide for its hospitality, comfortable beds and good food.The firm of Moore and Maltbie had been operating a trading post several years before Shadrack Bogan settled at Hog Mountain.
The fort, known as Fort Daniel, was constructed on the hill immediately west of the home of R. H. Burel. A marker on the road designates the location of Fort Daniel.Another event that contributes in making Hog Mountain perhaps the most historic place in the county was the construction of Peachtree Road in 1813. He did well while operating his trading post and The Hog Mountain House was known far and wide for its hospitality, comfortable beds and good food.The firm of Moore and Maltbie had been operating a trading post several years before Shadrack Bogan settled at Hog Mountain.
The heart of Hog Mountain used to be located at the intersection of Ga. highways 324 and 124, where a hotel with a pig corral previously stood. Now the intersection is a strip mall with no evidence at all that the area dates back to the 1600s. He did well while operating his trading post and The Hog Mountain House was known far and wide for its hospitality, comfortable beds and good food.The firm of Moore and Maltbie had been operating a trading post several years before Shadrack Bogan settled at Hog Mountain.
Established in 1854, Hog Mountain Baptist Church has been serving the Lord in the Hog Mountain community in Gwinnett County for over 160 years. Here at Hog Mountain, our first priority is the worship of the Lord, who has richly blessed us over the past century and a half. Our second priority is to spread the Gospel of Jesus Christ in our community, our county, our country, and the world. Come join us as we worship and work together all for His Glory!
Hog Mountain (GNIS FID: 332000) is a populated place located in Gwinnett County at latitude 34.05 and longitude -83.929. The elevation is 1,178 feet. Hog Mountain appears on the Hog Mountain U.S. Geological Survey Map. Gwinnett County is in the Eastern Time Zone (UTC -5 hours). Gwinnett County: Cities & Towns | ZIP Codes | Schools | Features (airports, churches, hospitals, etc.