Joint stiffness often accompanies joint pain and/or swelling. Depending on the cause of joint stiffness, joint redness, tenderness, warmth, tingling, or numbness of an affected area of the body may be present. Joint stiffness can be caused by injury or disease of the joint and is a common finding in the arthritis conditions. Joint damage, including stiffness, can also occur following injury to the joint. Sometimes injuries or inflammation of the adjacent areas, such as bursae, can cause pain that may limit the movement of a joint and be perceived as joint stiffness. Joint pain is also referred to as arthralgia. Polymyalgia Rheumatica Polymyalgia rheumatica (PMR) is a disorder of the muscles and joints that causes pain and stiffness in the arms, neck, shoulders,...learn more ».
Stiffness can be the result of a wide variety of other conditions, including muscle strains, contusions, carpal tunnel syndrome, prolapsed disc in the back, lymphedema, cellulitis, muscle spasms, chronic back pain, chronic fatigue syndrome, bed rest, depression and trauma. Stiffness is a symptom of a wide variety of mild to serious diseases, disorders and conditions. Stiffness can result from infection, trauma, malignancy, autoimmune diseases, and other abnormal processes. Stiffness can occur in any age group or population.
Stiffness is often referred to as occurring in the joints, but can also occur in muscles and other part of the body. Stiffness is a symptom of a wide variety of mild to serious diseases, disorders and conditions. Stiffness can result from infection, trauma, malignancy, autoimmune diseases, and other abnormal processes. Stiffness can occur in any age group or population.
WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms joint pain, muscle stiffness (rigidity), muscle weakness and night sweats including Lack of exercise, Exercise or physical activity, and Hypocalcemia. 
Arterial stiffness occurs as a consequence of biological aging and arteriosclerosis. Increased arterial stiffness is associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events such as myocardial infarction and stroke, the two leading causes of death in the developed world. 
Tendinitis, muscle spasms and arthritis cause pain and stiffness in the joints as well. Experiencing stiffness in the hip area is usually a result of arthritis or a more serious medical condition like Antley-Bixler syndrome or hypophosphatemic rickets. Antley-Bixler Syndrome and arthritis cause stiffness in the knees. An elbow with muscle stiffness can be caused by a sprain or epicondylitis
Muscle stiffness is caused when the muscles in a certain area of the body contract and become tense. Stiff muscles can happen from a variety of situations. These situations can range from having periods of inactivity to exercising, physical labor or playing sports. Experiencing stiffness in the hip area is usually a result of arthritis or a more serious medical condition like Antley-Bixler syndrome or hypophosphatemic rickets. Antley-Bixler Syndrome and arthritis cause stiffness in the knees.
Muscle stiffness is a condition in which muscles feel tight and contracted rather than the usual supple state of muscles at rest. It’s also called stiff muscles, rigidity, and in severe cases, spasticity. Muscle stiffness is a feeling of tension and contraction in the muscles. In other words, your muscles feel like they are always flexed. This stiffness may limit your normal range of motion
Stiff Neck Causes and Symptoms. The most common causes of a stiff neck include, but are not limited to, the following: Muscle Strain or Sprain. By far the most common cause of a stiff neck is a muscle sprain or muscle strain, particularly to the levator scapula muscle. Located at the back and side of the neck, the levator scapula muscle connects the cervical spine (the neck) with the shoulder. 