Herbivores, such as ducks, small fish and many species of zooplankton (animal plankton) eat plants. Carnivores (meat eaters) eat other animals and can be small (e.g., frog) or large (e.g., lake trout). Omnivores are animals (including humans) that eat both plants and animals. Each is an important part of the food chain. 
Plankton are a large group of various organisms that drift in waters and are eaten by larger organisms. They consists of very small animals, algae, bacteria and protists. As a group they contain both animals and plants (algae). 1 person found this useful. Making the world better, one answer at a time. Plankton is considered an animal, not a plant. it EATS plants, but is not one itself and also uses sunlight (photosynthesis).
Plankton are aquatic drifting organisms which means they are incapable of swimming against the current and instead, go with the flow.. The term, plankton, doesn't define the organism but how the organism lives. Plankton may be plant-like organisms, called phytoplankton or animal-like organisms, called zooplankton. 
Plankton are also divided into 3 main types: 1  Phytoplankton (from Greek phyton or plant), algae that live near the water surface where there is sufficient light to support photosynthesis. 2  Zooplankton (from Greek zoon or animal), small protozoa, crustaceans, jellyfish and various other animals that feed on other plankton. plankton facts-facts about plankton-what is plankton-. Plankton is not the name of a plant or animal but more of a category for any drifting organism that inhabits the middle to upper levels of the ocean, namely the pelagic zone. Interestingly, the word plankton is Greek for “wanderer” or “drifter”.
Plankton (singular plankter) are a diverse group of organisms that live in the water column of large bodies of water and that cannot swim against a current. They provide a crucial source of food to many large aquatic organisms, such as fish and whales. Within the plankton, holoplankton spend their entire life cycle as plankton (e.g. most algae, copepods, salps, and some jellyfish). By contrast, meroplankton are only planktic for part of their lives (usually the larval stage), and then graduate to either a nektic or benthic (sea floor) existence.
Definition: Plankton is the term that generally refers to the floaters, the organisms in the ocean that drift with the currents. This includes zooplankton ( animal plankton ), phytoplankton (plankton that are capable of photosynthesis), and bacteria. Some types of plankton can swim, but they swim only weakly or vertically in the water column. And not all plankton are tiny-jellyfish (sea jellies) are considered plankton. Some marine life go through a planktonic stage (called meroplankton) before they are free-swimming.
These organisms include drifting animals, protists, archaea, algae, or bacteria that inhabit the pelagic zone of oceans, seas, or bodies of fresh water; that is, plankton are defined by their ecological niche rather than phylogenetic or taxonomic classification. Within the plankton, holoplankton spend their entire life cycle as plankton (e.g. most algae, copepods, salps, and some jellyfish). By contrast, meroplankton are only planktic for part of their lives (usually the larval stage), and then graduate to either a nektic or benthic (sea floor) existence.
Confidence votes 119. The word plankton doesn't refer to a specific type of animal. it refers to all those animals which are not able to move in the water independently, in other words, they are caught up in the waters current and the current takes them anywhere and everywhere. There is a type of organism that is often called 'plant plankton'. Plant plankton, also known as phytoplankton, are microscopic plants which are autotrophs. And there are also 'Animal plankton', also known as zooplankton. they carry some animal-like traits, mainly being that they are heterotrophs
in Plankton, Sea Life. plankton facts-facts about plankton-what is plankton-. Plankton is not the name of a plant or animal but more of a category for any drifting organism that inhabits the middle to upper levels of the ocean, namely the pelagic zone. Interestingly, the word plankton is Greek for “wanderer” or “drifter”.
Many types of plankton are microscopic, but jellyfish that are meters long can be considered plankton because they always travel with the current. These organisms can be divided into two main categories: Phytoplankton and Zooplankton. Animal-like plankton are called zooplankton. These organisms need to consume other organisms, like phytoplankton, to survive. While phytoplankton are the base of the food web, zooplankton are the next level. These animals take energy from phytoplankton and then they themselves become food for larger marine life.he question is actually harder than students think, because plankton can be small, they can be big, they can be plants, and they can be animals. Plankton are not just one thing, they are a lifestyle, a way an organism lives in its environment. Plankton are drifters, meaning they cannot move against a current.