Your veterinarian will want to figure out what kinds of stones have formed in your cat’s bladder in order to determine the proper treatment. Surgical removal, which is also a form of treatment, is sometimes necessary in order for a laboratory analysis to be performed. Bladder stones can also lead to blockage of the urethra and can interfere with a cat’s ability to urinate. There are several types of minerals that form stones under different conditions in a cat’s urinary tract.
Bladder stones can be removed surgically by a cystotomy, opening of the bladder. Stones lodged in the urethra can often be flushed into the bladder and removed, but sometimes a urethrotomy is necessary. 
Uroliths, commonly referred to as bladder stones, are small mineral concentrations that build up in the urinary tract of animals. Cats of any breed and age may be affected by bladder stones, which come in a variety of shapes and sizes. Act fast. If your cat is suffering from bladder stones, time may be of the essence. Stones have been shown to grow to problematic sizes in as little as two weeks. Bladder stone growth may lead to severe pain, vomiting, and depression.
Bladder stones are rock-like deposits of minerals, crystals and organic material that are found in a cat ’s bladder. They can remain small in size or grow to be several millimeters in diameter, and may rub against the bladder walls, causing inflammation. Bladder stones can also lead to blockage of the urethra and can interfere with a cat’s ability to urinate. There are several types of minerals that form stones under different conditions in a cat’s urinary tract.
Bladder Stone. Bladder stones are hard pieces of mineral that form in the bladder. The stones may form because of a urinary tract infection or enlarged prostate. Bladder stones are created when urine is concentrated and minerals crystallize and clump together. Bladder stones may block the tube that carries urine from the bladder to the outside of the body (urethra). 
Bladder stones are small rocks that can form in the bladder. In most cases bladder stones develop when the urine becomes very concentrated or when one is dehydrated. This allows for minerals, such as calcium or magnesium salts, to crystallize and form stones. Bladder stones vary in number, size and consistency. Bladder stones incidentally found in a bladder diverticulum during transvesical prostatectomy (removal of the prostate via an incision in the bladder). A bladder stone (also called a vesical calculus or cystolith) is a calculus (stone) found in the urinary bladder
Bladder stones are small mineral masses that develop in the bladder, usually when the urine becomes concentrated. Urolithiasis refers to stones in any part of the urinary tract, including the kidneys, bladder or urethra. The stones can be called calculi. Spinal cord injuries that result in urinary incontinence, an enlarged prostate, or recurring urinary tract infections are common causes of concentrated and stagnant urine. Bladder stones should not remain in the bladder. Small ones may usually be flushed out by drinking more water-at least 6 to 8 glasses (1.2 liters) of water a day. Patients should be guided by what their doctor tells them.
Bladder stones are hard masses of minerals in your bladder. Bladder stones develop when urine in your bladder becomes concentrated, causing minerals in your urine to crystallize. Concentrated, stagnant urine is often the result of not being able to completely empty your bladder. Bladder stones don't always cause signs or symptoms and may be discovered during tests for other problems. When symptoms do occur, they can range from abdominal pain to blood in your urine.
Generally, bladder stones should be removed. If the stone is small, your doctor may recommend that you drink a lot of water each day to help the stone pass. However, because bladder stones are often caused by the inability to empty the bladder completely, spontaneous passage of the stones is unlikely. 