Your status update may also show up on that friend's Timeline. When you tag someone, they'll be notified. Also, if you or a friend tags someone in your post, the post could be visible to the audience you selected plus friends of the tagged person. Learn more about what happens when you create a tag. To tag yourself or your friends in a photo: 1  Click the photo to expand it. 2  Hover over the photo and click Tag Photo at the bottom. 3  Click the person in the photo and start typing their name. 4  Choose the full name of the person you want to tag when it appears.
This template is based on your profile pictures and photos you’ve been tagged in on Facebook. We use these templates to help you tag photos by suggesting tags of your friends. If you remove a tag from a photo, that photo is not used to create the template for person whose tag was removed. To tag yourself or your friends in a photo: 1  Click the photo to expand it. 2  Hover over the photo and click Tag Photo at the bottom. 3  Click the person in the photo and start typing their name. 4  Choose the full name of the person you want to tag when it appears.
I've hidden tagged photos or posts from my Timeline, but people can still see them. When you hide a photo or post you're tagged in on your Timeline, or adjust your Timeline and tagging privacy setting, this only limits who can see the content on your Timeline. The photo or post is still visible to the audience it's shared with other places on Facebook, such as in News Feed or search
Tell people about stuff they’re in. Adding tags can let people know when they're in photos or other things you share. People you tag can receive a notification so they can see your post. The post may also go on the person's profile and appear in their friends' news feeds
Tag people in your posts. Add tags to anything you post, including photos and updates. Tags can point to your friends or anyone else on Facebook. Adding a tag creates a link that people can follow to learn more. Adding tags can let people know when they're in photos or other things you share. People you tag can receive a notification so they can see your post. The post may also go on the person's profile and appear in their friends' news feeds
Are photos that your friends posted to facebook and in which you are tagged.... 1. 0. Log on to your Facebook account. 2 Click Profile in the upper right corner to go to your Facebook profile. Sponsored Links Scanning Software All-in-one, easy batch scanning. Are photos that your friends posted to facebook and in which you are tagged.... 0. 2
The post you tag the person in may also be added to that person’s Timeline. For example, you can tag a photo to show who's in the photo or post a status update and say who you're with. If you tag a friend in your status update, anyone who sees that update can click on your friend's name and go to their profile. To tag yourself or your friends in a photo: 1  Click the photo to expand it. 2  Hover over the photo and click Tag Photo at the bottom. 3  Click the person in the photo and start typing their name. 4  Choose the full name of the person you want to tag when it appears.
Keep in mind that posts you're tagged in can also appear in News Feed, search and other places on Facebook. When people you’re not friends with tag you in a post, they automatically go to Timeline review. If you'd also like to review tags by friends, you can turn on Timeline review for tags from anyone. To tag yourself or your friends in a photo: 1  Click the photo to expand it. 2  Hover over the photo and click Tag Photo at the bottom. 3  Click the person in the photo and start typing their name. 4  Choose the full name of the person you want to tag when it appears.