Tonic contains 83 mg. of quinine in a liter. An eight-ounce glass or tonic would only have about 20 mg of quinine, considerably less than the dose that used to be prescribed for leg cramps (200 to 300 mg). 
Tonic water (or Indian tonic water) is a carbonated soft drink, in which quinine is dissolved. Originally used as a prophylactic against malaria, tonic water usually now has a significantly lower quinine content and is consumed for its distinctive bitter flavour. It is often used in mixed drinks, particularly in gin and tonic.
Send Feedback. Tonic Water is a carbonated drink that contains quinine. Quinine is a substance used to treat malaria-however the drink does not contain enough quinine to have any effect. The FDA allows up to 83 parts per million (PPM) of quinine to water. Nowadays Tonic Water contains the same amount sugar as most other flavored carbonated beverages.
Nice try, sport, but no dice. Tonic water contains less than 20 milligrams of quinine per six fluid ounces. The recommended quinine dosage for treatment of malaria is two or three 200-350 milligram tablets three times a day. If you drink the equivalent of that in gin and tonics, malaria will be the least of your problems
Report Abuse. Tonic water originally contained only carbonated water and a large amount of quinine. However, most tonic water today contains a medically insignificant amount of quinine, and is thus used for its flavor only. It is consequently less bitter, and is also usually sweetened. Quinine derives from the bark of the Cinchona, a tree grown in the Andes. Tonic water, however, contains too little quinine to actually prevent malaria. Actually, chemically produced quinine in much larger doses is now preferred. Quinine therapy does not exactly kill malaria either, but tends to reduce fever and malarial symptoms.
However, most tonic water today contains a less significant amount of quinine, and is thus used mostly for its flavor. As a consequence, it is less bitter, and is also usually sweetened, often with high fructose corn syrup or sugar. Originally used as a prophylactic against malaria, tonic water usually now has a significantly lower quinine content and is consumed for its distinctive bitter flavour. It is often used in mixed drinks, particularly in gin and tonic.
Tonic water used to contain a lot of quinine (bitter), which is  used to prevent disease like malaria and fever. Nowadays, it's just  a sweetened carbonated drink with relat … ively little quinine  compared to before. It kind of tastes like grapefruit. 2 people found this useful. GB. 
Tonic water was never intended as a cure or preventive for malaria, but malaria is the reason the quinine is in there. Quinine has a bitter taste. To make the stuff palatable when used as an antidote for fevers, legend has it, British colonials in India mixed quinine with gin and lemon or lime. Tonic water contains less than 20 milligrams of quinine per six fluid ounces. The recommended quinine dosage for treatment of malaria is two or three 200-350 milligram tablets three times a day.