The NEW Wireless Fridge/Freezer monitor allows the user to record the temperature in their vaccine or medical storage fridges 96 times a day. (Recording data every 15 minutes) It allows the user to check the minimum, maximum & average temperatures with a single button press. 
An Accsense system allows wired or wireless data collection with the use of internal and external temperature sensors that are attached to Accsense data loggers, allowing for temperature monitoring in up to 16 separate locations. 1  Wireless and ethernet interface(s). For additional temperature monitoring systems, check out our complete selection of Temperature data loggers, or call us at 1-800-956-4437 to talk with of of our experienced Application Specialists.
The HOBO Wireless Temperature/Relative Humidity Monitoring Kit makes environmental monitoring fast, cost-effective, and convenient. Monitor critical conditions in real time, log data for trend analysis, and stay notified of alarm conditions via text or email – all without the hassles of wires or manual data offload. 
Store foods at safe temperatures to prevent food spoilage and avoid food borne illnesses with the AcuRite Digital Refrigerator Thermometer & Freezer Thermometer with Temperature Alerts. Displays the refrigerator temperature, freezer temperature and the high / low temperatures recorded for each. Because the display unit makes no reference to refrigerator or freezer (it only says Sensor 1 and Sensor 2) this thermometer could also be used to monitor temperature and max/min and alarm settings for any general use, not just for a refrigerator and freezer. A very good design..
Accsense Wireless Temperature Monitoring System. An Accsense system allows wireless data collection with the use of internal and external temperature sensors that are attached to Accsense data loggers, allowing for temperature monitoring in up to 16 separate locations. 1  Wireless and ethernet interface(s). 2  One system can support up to 16 temperature data loggers
The wireless fridge / freezer monitor allows the user to record the temperature for medical storage refrigerators 96 times a day. (Recording data every 15 minutes) This device also allows you to check the minimum, maximum and average temperatures that have been recorded by a single button press. 
TempGenius temperature monitoring offers solutions for a wide range of environments. We have engineered solutions for data logging refrigerators, Walk Ins, Warehouses, Rooms, Trucks, Ultra Cold Freezers, Cryogenic Freezers, Heat Blocks, Ovens, and Incubator applications across a range of industry applications. Existing wireless networks, wireless telecom systems, and other systems remain autonomous and secure using encrypted transmissions. Available platforms for wireless temperature monitoring include WIFI 802.11, 418 MHz, 900 MHz, 923 MHz and more.
Includes one wireless refrigerator thermometer and one wireless freezer thermometer featuring a wireless signal indicator light, and versatile mounting options including an integrated suction cup or spring-loaded clip. One-year limited warranty. Because the display unit makes no reference to refrigerator or freezer (it only says Sensor 1 and Sensor 2) this thermometer could also be used to monitor temperature and max/min and alarm settings for any general use, not just for a refrigerator and freezer. A very good design..
Wireless refrigerator temperature monitoring systems: because you have other things to worry about. Pharmacy Purchasing and Products. March 2006. http://www.pppmag.com/pp-p-march-2006-articles/wireless-refrigerator-temperature-monitoring-sys.htmlAccessed 8/4/09.2. McGregory ME. Wireless temperature monitoring systems; selection, implementation, and quality assurance.
TempGenius monitoring “on the shelf” solutions include blood bag simulators, hermetically sealed probes, high temperature probes, cryogenic (cryo) liquid probes, surface temperature probes, refrigerator monitor, warming cabinet probes, ovens and many more. Existing wireless networks, wireless telecom systems, and other systems remain autonomous and secure using encrypted transmissions. Available platforms for wireless temperature monitoring include WIFI 802.11, 418 MHz, 900 MHz, 923 MHz and more.