You can have cataracts in one eye or both. Outpatient cataract surgery is typically covered under Medicare Part B benefits, while inpatient surgery is usually covered under Medicare Part A. You may have greater coverage and lower out-of-pocket costs if you have a Medicare Advantage or Medigap plan. Surgery to correct cataracts is usually performed in people over age 65, and this includes Medicare beneficiaries. That's why it's important to know how Medicare covers the treatment of cataracts. Surgery to remove cataracts is covered by Medicare, but Medicare only pays expenses directly related to the
Average Cost of Cataract Surgery. The average cost of Cataract surgery in a Medicare outpatient setting is generally around $2,500.00/eye for the surgeon, the out patient facility, and the anesthesia provider. Medicare would pay 80% or $2,000.00/eye and you would pay the remaining $500.00 out of pocket. Vision insurance covers routine eye exams, glasses, and contact lenses. It does not generally cover medical eye problems. Regular medical insurance covers your regular medical care, including medical problems with your eyes like the cataract surgery costs.
As such, Medicare covers the surgery required to correct cataracts as well as glasses or lenses if they are necessary after the surgery. There are different types of cataracts: nuclear, cortical, and posterior subcapsular cataracts. These are found on different parts of the eye. Medicare coverage of surgery to correct cataracts. Talk to your doctor if you think you have cataracts. He or she will likely refer you to an ophthalmologist, and you can schedule an eye exam. But be aware that Medicare will cover this exam only if it turns out
Medicare Part B is medical insurance. Medicare Part B covers some vision care, but not routine vision exams. You are not covered for vision correction such as eyeglasses or contact lenses under Medicare Part B unless you need vision correction after cataract surgery. Medicare Part B also does not cover eye refractions
With cataracts, Medicare covers a pre-surgery exam to discuss your cataracts and anesthesia during the surgery. Medicare also covers any follow-up care. You'll pay the 20% Medicare coinsurance, plus any Medicare deductible before Medicare pays its share. Surgery to correct cataracts is usually performed in people over age 65, and this includes Medicare beneficiaries. That's why it's important to know how Medicare covers the treatment of cataracts. Surgery to remove cataracts is covered by Medicare, but Medicare only pays expenses directly related to the
As cataracts can be a debilitating visual disease, almost all insurance plans regularly cover cataract surgery. Also, the Medicare program, which provides the vast majority of insurance coverage to seniors in the US, regularly covers cataract surgery. 
Yes, Medicare Advantage does cover cataract surgery. Butto add to the confusion, one of the cons of Medicare Advantage is they vary in coverage, therefore each plan can cover the surgery differently AND does not need to offer the same coverage as Original Medicare. Learn More about Medicare Advantage Get a MA Quote. If you think you might need cataract surgery, you would want to compare Medigap plans. To eliminate costs, you would want to choose one that covers both your Part A and B deductible, as well as your copays and coinsurance, such as Medigap “C” or “F”. Learn More about Medigap Get a Medigap Quote.
Medicare and Cataracts Surgery. Cataracts are the leading cause of blindness in the world, according to the World Health Organization. Even though they can occur at any age, cataracts are most common later in life--so common that they're considered part of the aging process. Surgery to correct cataracts is usually performed in people over age 65, and this includes Medicare beneficiaries. That's why it's important to know how Medicare covers the treatment of cataracts. Surgery to remove cataracts is covered by Medicare, but Medicare only pays expenses directly related to the
Medicare and cataract surgery. Surgery to correct cataracts is usually performed in people over age 65, and this includes Medicare beneficiaries. That's why it's important to know how Medicare covers the treatment of cataracts. Surgery to remove cataracts is covered by Medicare, but Medicare only pays expenses directly related to the cataracts.