CRP tests for heart disease. It's thought that high hs-CRP levels in your blood are associated with narrowed coronary arteries. A CRP test can't tell your doctor where the inflammation is, though, so it's possible that a high hs-CRP level could mean there's inflammation somewhere other than your heart. 
A C-reactive protein (CRP) test is a blood test that measures the amount of a protein called C-reactive protein in your blood. C-reactive protein measures general levels of inflammation in your body. High levels of CRP are caused by infections and many long-term diseases. But a CRP test cannot show where the inflammation is located or what is causing it. Other tests are needed to find the cause and location of the inflammation. Why It Is Done. A C-reactive protein (CRP) test is done to: 1  Check for infection after surgery. 2  CRP levels normally rise within 2 to 6 hours of surgery and then go down by the third day after surgery. 3  If CRP levels stay elevated 3 days after surgery, an infection may be present.
The C-reactive protein (CRP) test is used by a health practitioner to detect inflammation. For example, CRP may be used to detect or monitor significant inflammation in an individual who is suspected of having an acute condition, such as: 1  A serious bacterial infection like sepsis. 2  A fungal infection.
The C-reactive protein (CRP) test is used to find swelling and infection in your body. It does this by measuring the amount of CRP in your blood. CRP is a protein made by the liver and sent into the bloodstream. Blood levels may be higher when you have swelling (inflammation) or an infection. 
These are two different tests that measure CRP and each test measures a different range of CRP level in the blood for different purposes: 1  The standard CRP test measures markedly high levels of the protein to detect diseases that cause significant inflammation. 2  It measures CRP in the range from 10 to 1000 mg/L. 
Description: A C-Reactive Protein (CRP) Quantitative test is used to aid in the diagnosis of infections or diseases which cause inflammation. CRP is a protein produced by the liver. Higher than normal concentrations of CRP are often an indicator of infection or inflammation in the body. A C-Reactive Protein (CRP) Quantitative test is used to aid in the diagnosis of infections or diseases which cause inflammation.
C-reactive protein (CRP) is an annular (ring-shaped), pentameric protein found in blood plasma, whose levels rise in response to inflammation. It is an acute-phase protein of hepatic origin that increases following interleukin-6 secretion by macrophages and T cells. CRP is synthesized by the liver in response to factors released by macrophages and fat cells (adipocytes). It is a member of the pentraxin family of proteins. It is not related to C-peptide (insulin) or protein C (blood coagulation). C-reactive protein was the first pattern recognition receptor (PRR) to be identified.
A high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) test, which is more sensitive than a standard test, also can be used to evaluate your risk of developing coronary artery disease, a condition in which the arteries of your heart are narrowed. Coronary artery disease can eventually lead to a heart attack. The level of C-reactive protein (CRP), which can be measured in your blood, increases when there's inflammation in your body. Your doctor may check your C-reactive protein level treatment for infections or for other medical conditions