Then Cassius cleverly leads Brutus to believe that Caesar has become too powerful and must die. Cassius congers up fake letters to send to Brutus about how the people of Rome do no longer want Caesar to live. This instant was a big turning point of when Brutus convinced himself to do the deed and kill Caesar. This speech consisted of mainly saying how Caesar was just as normal as any of the rest of Rome. How he did shake: 'tis true, this god did shake.[1] Cassius is able to persuade Brutus that it is the honourable thing to do to kill Caesar.
Philippi, March 19 – Just a few days after Caesar’s death, more deaths have followed. The conspirators, Brutus and Cassius, were both killed. Cassius, because of a misunderstanding, asked his servant to kill him, and Brutus, who committed suicide, believed Caesar’s ghost was telling him it was his time to die.
Answer by Saureyj. Confidence votes 252. Brutus thinks Cassius as his mirror, who takes his bad habits and reflects them into good habits. As we see in Act I, When Brutus cannot decide that should he join the Conspirators, Cassius tells him about Caesar's physical problems, his political views about Cassius. This speech consisted of mainly saying how Caesar was just as normal as any of the rest of Rome. How he did shake: 'tis true, this god did shake.[1] Cassius is able to persuade Brutus that it is the honourable thing to do to kill Caesar.
Marcus Junius Brutus, a leading conspirator in the assassination of Julius Caesar, commits suicide after his defeat at the second battle of Philippi. 
Historically, Brutus committed suicide after the second battle of Philippi nearly 3 weeks after Cassius' death. In the series the events of the battles are concentrated and his death mirrors Caesar's; he is surrounded and stabbed to death by a throng of enemy soldiers. Brutus also insists that Mark Antony, Caesar's right-hand man and Lucius Vorenus, the new senator Caesar has appointed, must not be harmed. On the Ides of March, Brutus and the other senators involved in the plot attack Caesar on the Senate floor, stabbing him to death.
Portia's death is reported to the audience twice in Act IV sc.3. 1. Brutus tells Cassius that Portia died by swallowing hot coals. Since Brutus had been away on his military campaign and on hearing that Octavius had joined forces with Antony, she had become very upset and mentally distracted. When she was left unattended she swallowed hot coals of fire and died: 
The Tragedy of Julius Caesar is a tragedy by William Shakespeare, believed to have been written in 1599. It is one of several plays written by Shakespeare based on true events from Roman history, which also include Coriolanus and Antony and Cleopatra. Although the title is Julius Caesar, Julius Caesar is not the most visible character in its action; he appears alive in only three scenes. Marcus Brutus speaks more than four times as many lines and the central psychological drama is his struggle between the conflicting demands of honor, patriotism and friendship.
Come therefore, and to Thasos send his body; His funerals shall not be in our camp, Lest it discomfort us. Lucilius, come, And come, young Cato; let us to the field. Labeo and Flavius, set our battles on... Brutus' reaction to Cassius' death is a bit of a puzzle. He starts off first of all citing the abstract significance of his friend's death in very rhetorical, formal terms: BRUTUS : O Julius Caesar, thou art mighty yet! Thy spirit walks abroad, and turns our swords. In our own proper entrails. Not the tears of horror you might expect.
In Act II, Scene i of Julius Caesar, Portia begged Brutus to tell her what was troubling him in a dialogue filled with love and signs of mutual respect. Study the dialogue in Scene iii between Brutus and Cassius regarding Portia's death (lines 163-178). What does each man's reaction say about his character? Decide which of the two funeral orators –Brutus or Antony is the better leader and explain your opinion. Literary Elements 1. In Scene I, Antony predicts that Caesar’s death with cause terrible things to happen. Look at lines 279- 295 and note what effects he foresees as a result of Caesar’s assassination. 2.