Full Definition of APPROXIMATION. 1. : the act or process of drawing together. 2. 3. : something that is approximate; especially: a mathematical quantity that is close in value to but not the same as a desired quantity. — ap·prox·i·ma·tive \-ˈpraek-ˈpräk-sə-ˌmā\ tiv. adjective 1 This isn't an exact figure but I think it's a good approximation of what the land is worth.
So, as can be seen in the graph, [ P (x) − f (x)] − [ Q (x) − f (x)] must alternate in sign for the N + 2 values of xi. But [ P (x) − f (x)] − [ Q (x) − f (x)] reduces to P (x) − Q (x) which is a polynomial of degree N. One problem of particular interest is that of approximating a function in a computer mathematical library, using operations that can be performed on the computer or calculator (e.g. addition and multiplication), such that the result is as close to the actual function as possible.
approximation. n. 1. the process or result of making a rough calculation, estimate, or guess: he based his conclusion on his own approximation of the fuel consumption. 2. an imprecise or unreliable record or version: an approximation of what really happened. 3. (Mathematics) maths an inexact number, relationship, or theory that is sufficiently accurate for a specific purpose. 4. (Mathematics) maths. a. an estimate of the value of some quantity to a desired degree of accuracy
In mathematics, approximation theory is concerned with how functions can best be approximated with simpler functions, and with quantitatively characterizing the errors introduced thereby. Note that what is meant by best and simpler will depend on the application. One problem of particular interest is that of approximating a function in a computer mathematical library, using operations that can be performed on the computer or calculator (e.g. addition and multiplication), such that the result is as close to the actual function as possible.
ap·prox·i·ma·tion. n. 1. The act, process, or result of approximating. 2. Mathematics An inexact result adequate for a given purpose. ap·prox′i·ma′tive (-mā′tĭv) adj. ap·prox′i·ma′tive·ly adv. 1. the process or result of making a rough calculation, estimate, or guess: he based his conclusion on his own approximation of the fuel consumption. 2. an imprecise or unreliable record or version: an approximation of what really happened.
About this Textbook. The approximation of a continuous function by either an algebraic polynomial, a trigonometric polynomial, or a spline, is an important issue in application areas like computer-aided geometric design and signal analysis. This book is an introduction to the mathematical analysis of such approximation, and, with the prerequisites of only calculus and linear algebra, the material is targeted at senior undergraduate level, with a treatment that is both rigorous and self-contained.
more ... Not exact, but close enough to be used. Examples: • the cord measures 2.91, and you round it to 3, as that is good enough. • the bus ride takes 57 minutes, and you say it is a one hour bus ride. • 3.14 is an approximation of Pi (which is actually 3.14159265... etc). 
Although approximation is most often applied to numbers, it is also frequently applied to such things as mathematical functions, shapes, and physical laws. In science, approximation can refer to using a simpler process or model when the correct model is difficult to use. An approximate model is used to make calculations easier. Approximation can occur when a decimal number cannot be expressed in a finite number of binary digits. Related to approximation of functions is the asymptotic value of a function, i.e. the value as one or more of a function's parameters becomes arbitrarily large. For example, the sum (k /2)+(k /4)+(k /8)+...(k /2^ n) is asymptotically equal to k
Approximation theory is a branch of mathematics, a quantitative part of functional analysis. Diophantine approximation deals with approximations of real numbers by rational numbers. Approximation usually occurs when an exact form or an exact numerical number is unknown or difficult to obtain. Approximation can occur when a decimal number cannot be expressed in a finite number of binary digits. Related to approximation of functions is the asymptotic value of a function, i.e. the value as one or more of a function's parameters becomes arbitrarily large. For example, the sum (k /2)+(k /4)+(k /8)+...(k /2^ n) is asymptotically equal to k