On the way to a gig, Redding had the opportunity to perform the songs Hey Hey Baby and These Arms of Mine as the set of Jenkins and house band Booker T. & the M.G.'s ended their sets earlier than scheduled.he first song was Hey Hey Baby, but studio chief Jim Stewart thought it sounded too much like Little Richard. The next song was These Arms of Mine, which featured Jenkins on guitar and Steve Cropper on piano.
Lyrics. full lyrics. These arms of mine, they are lonely, Lonely and feeling blue. These arms of mine, they are yearning, Yearning from wanting you. full lyrics. These arms of mine, they are lonely, Lonely and feeling blue. These arms of mine, they are yearning, Yearning from wanting you. full lyrics. These arms of mine, they are lonely, Lonely and feeling blue
Steve Cropper, who was a producer and guitarist at Stax Records and worked closely with Redding, explained to Rolling Stone magazine: The first time we saw Otis was in 1962, and he was driving a car for Johnny Jenkins and the Pinetoppers out of Macon, Georgia.
Lyrics taken from http://www.lyricsmode.com/lyrics/l/leann_rimes/these_arms_of_mine.html.he touch of yours in these arms of mine. The touch of yours in these arms of mine. These arms of mine long to hold you again. Like they did long ago.
After a series of unnoticed numbers, the song These Arms of Mine became Redding's first successful single and sold around 800,000 copies. The first song was Hey Hey Baby, but studio chief Jim Stewart thought it sounded too much like Little Richard. The next song was These Arms of Mine, which featured Jenkins on guitar and Steve Cropper on piano.
These Arms of Mine  is a song written by soul musician Otis Redding. Redding, at that time a member of Pat Teacake's Band, consisting of lead guitarist Johnny Jenkins, bassist Pat Teacake and vocalist/songwriter Redding, who also served as driver for Jenkins, who did not have a driver's license. The first song was Hey Hey Baby, but studio chief Jim Stewart thought it sounded too much like Little Richard. The next song was These Arms of Mine, which featured Jenkins on guitar and Steve Cropper on piano.
***Lyrics***. These arms of mine. They are lonely, lonely and feeling blue. These arms of mine. They are yearning, yearning from wanting you. And if you would let them hold you. Oh, how grateful I will be. These arms of mine. They are burning, burning from wanting you. These arms of mine
Before Otis Redding cut “These Arms of Mine” at the Stax studio in Memphis in October 1962, he was just along for the ride; afterwards, he emerged as one of the most distinct voices of southern soul. It took a guy like Otis, with a heart as big as the state of Georgia, to get there in just one take. Galkin gave Jim Stewart fifty percent of the publishing on “These Arms of Mine,” and Stax agreed to release the single on their new subsidiary label, Volt. In a classic example of the rampant payola scheming of the day, Stewart then gave his share over to Nashville DJ John R. at WLAC.