1 If the egg sinks and lies on its side, it is a fresh one. 2  It is good enough to be eaten. 3  If it sinks and stands up on a point, or is at an angle, it is good enough. 4  You can still use it up for making hard-cooked eggs or bake it. The article describes this three-point test to find out if an egg is good to eat. 1 
Old eggs float in fresh cold water because of a large air cell that forms as the egg cools after being laid. As the egg ages, air enters the egg and the air cell becomes larger and this acts as a buoyancy aid. Learn All About Eggs and How To Cook Them. If the egg is at an angle on the bottom-it is still fresh and good to eat. If the egg stands on its pointed end at the bottom-it is still safe to eat but best used for baking and making hard-cooked eggs. If the egg float-they're stale and best discarded. If the egg stay at the bottom-it is fresh.
Old eggs float-has to do with the larger air cell in the egg. My fresh eggs, smallest air cell, lay on their side on the bottom of the bowl of water. Fowl adventures happening daily. Poultry-they may be your pets, they may be your hobby, they may be your livestock. 
More gas = more floating! Carefully lower your eggs into fresh cold water (do not use salted water) using a spoon: If the egg stay at the bottom-it is fresh. If the egg is at an angle on the bottom-it is still fresh and good to eat. If the egg stands on its pointed end at the bottom-it is still safe to eat but best used for baking and making hard-cooked eggs. If the egg float-they're stale and best discarded. If the egg stay at the bottom-it is fresh.
By Anupum Pant. Instead of cracking up an egg which has been stored for a long time, to end up disgusted by the ‘ rotten egg smell ’, or the smell of a gas called Hydrogen Sulfide, a simple and a fairly well known way to check if an egg has gone bad, is to drop it in a glass of water and see if it floats. The article describes this three-point test to find out if an egg is good to eat. 1  If the egg sinks and lies on its side, it is a fresh one. 2  It is good enough to be eaten. 3  If it sinks and stands up on a point, or is at an angle, it is good enough. 4  You can still use it up for making hard-cooked eggs or bake it.
1 But the egg does not sink. 2  Instead, it floats near the top of the water. ( 3 If it doesn’t, dissolve more salt into the water.). 4  Remove the objects again. 5  Using a tall water glass, fill the glass one-half full with saltwater. 6  Now pour a layer of tap water on top of the saltwater without mixing them up. What to Do. 1  Use a spoon to carefully lower the coin, an uncooked egg, and a piece of cork into a glass of water. ( 2 If you don’t have any cork, try a piece of light plastic packing material.) You'll see that the egg and coin will sink, and the cork will float.
1 Again, the coin sinks and the cork floats. 2  But now the egg sinks to about the middle of the glass. 3  It goes to the bottom of the tap water but floats in the salt water. 4  Push down on the egg gently with a spoon to see it return to the same level. What to Do. 1  Use a spoon to carefully lower the coin, an uncooked egg, and a piece of cork into a glass of water. ( 2 If you don’t have any cork, try a piece of light plastic packing material.) You'll see that the egg and coin will sink, and the cork will float.
If gases fill the egg, the weight of the egg does not vary or become less. When the egg is spoiled or decomposed then its weight reduces. The heavy water vapor and decomposed gases will leave the egg and the lighter ambient air fills the egg through the porous shell. Now, the egg becomes lighter and floats in water. If the egg floats, it means the egg in the question is stale and can be thrown away as it is not useful. If the egg floats in water, it means that it is an old one. As the egg ages it is found to get dehydrated. The egg shell is found to be having pores. The semi porous nature of the egg shell makes the air and bacteria to enter into the egg. The egg will be filled with gases as it becomes old