Capsaicin is a common ingredient in creams and ointments used in the treatment of arthritis to relieve such symptoms as arthritis neck pain, muscle pain, and joint stiffness. Many over the counter ointments use capsaicin as their primary pain relieving ingredient. Patients often find these creams helpful in the relief of arthritis neck pain. However, few realize the origins of their favorite arthritis neck pain relieving topical treatment is a derivative of a common household spice. Capsaicin is derived from red pepper or Cayenne pepper. It can have relieving effects on arthritis neck pain when taken orally or used topically. Capsicum, the active ingredient in red pepper that is used for arthritis neck pain relief, among other arthritic issues, interferes with the body’s perception of pain
That term is used when you heat an oil with something (in this case the peppers or pepper powder) and then let it sit so the oil takes on the scent, taste and other attributes of whatever you are infusing it with (again the pepper in this case). Note: It is normal for there to be somewhat of a burning sensation when first applied. If you have sensitive skin, use with caution. Always wear gloves when handling hot pepper powder, and avoid any contact with your eyes.
Easing the pain caused by arthritis. Arthritis comes from the Greek word arthron meaning joint. Arthritis literally means 'joint inflammation'. According to the Arthritis Foundation, there are more than 100 different diseases that produce joint pain and inflammation-everything from the flu to certain cancers. The two most common forms of 'arthritis' are osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. 
Because arthritis is a disease of inflammation, the most effective — and logical — treatment is anything that fights inflammation. Medical management of arthritis usually starts with ibuprofen and other anti-inflammatory medications, and nutritional care starts with anti-inflammatory foods. Research has demonstrated that certain antioxidants may help prevent arthritis, slow its progression and relieve pain. 1  Vitamin C: Vitamin C is one of the nutrients most responsible for the health of collagen, a major component of cartilage.
Osteoarthritis (OA), also called arthritis, is a painful condition caused by a gradual loss of cartilage from the joints and, in some people, joint inflammation (figure 1). Arthritis can affect almost any joint, although it occurs most frequently in the hands, knees, hips, and spine. 
Some people apply capsicum to the skin for pain caused by shingles, osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, and fibromyalgia. It is also used topically for nerve pain (neuropathy) associated with diabetes and HIV, other types of nerve pain (neuralgia), and back pain. One form of capsicum is currently being studied as a drug for migraine, osteoarthritis, and other painful conditions. A particular form of capsicum causes intense eye pain and other unpleasant effects when it comes in contact with the face. This form is used in self-defense pepper sprays.
Capsicum, also known as red pepper or chili pepper, is an herb. The fruit of the capsicum plant is used to make medicine. Capsicum is used for various problems with digestion including upset stomach, intestinal gas, stomach pain, diarrhea, and cramps. One form of capsicum is currently being studied as a drug for migraine, osteoarthritis, and other painful conditions. A particular form of capsicum causes intense eye pain and other unpleasant effects when it comes in contact with the face. This form is used in self-defense pepper sprays.
To reduce the burning sensation, remove the seeds from the peppers before you eat or cook with them. Also, if you eat bananas along with the peppers, you may reduce the burning sensation. Extremely high intake of capsaicin may cause ulcers, but it's rare for anyone to consume enough for this to be a problem. Supplement use. When you eat hot peppers or take capsaicin as a dietary supplement, the capsaicin may improve your digestion by increasing the digestive fluids in the stomach and by fighting bacteria that could cause an infection. It may also help fight diarrhea caused by bacterial
Overview. Native Americans have used cayenne (Capsicum annuum, frutescens, or red pepper) as both food and medicine for at least 9,000 years. The hot and spicy taste of cayenne pepper is mostly due to a substance known as capsaicin, which helps reduce pain. 