The scientific name for the sugar glider is Petaurus breviceps     The sugar glider is a small mammal, specifically a marsupial.   Order: Diprodontia   Fami … ly: Petauridae   Genus Species: Petaurus (springboard used by acrobats) breviceps (short). Any chemical species dissolved in water has a (water) formula at the end    for example, salt in water is NaCl(water)    The scientific name for solid sugar is C … 12H22O11    The formula for water is H2O    So the formula for sugar water is...
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: SUCROSE is the scientific name of table sugar, is a disaccharide (glucose + fructose) with the molecular formula C12H22O11. Its systematic name is α-D-glucopyranosyl-(1→2)-β-D-fructofuran... It is best known for its role in human nutrition and is formed by plants but not by higher organisms.
The white stuff we know as sugar is sucrose, a molecule composed of 12 atoms of carbon, 22 atoms of hydrogen, and 11 atoms of oxygen (C12H22O11). Like all compounds made from these three elements, sugar is a carbohydrate. Its found naturally in most plants, but especially in sugarcane and sugar beetshence their names. Sucrose is actually two simpler sugars stuck together: fructose and glucose. In recipes, a little bit of acid (for example, some lemon juice or cream of tartar) will cause sucrose to break down into these two components.
The most common names for sugar are: barley malt, corn syrup, dextrose, fruit juice concentrate, glucose, high-fructose corn syrup, maltodextrin, maltose, molasses, raw sugar, sucrose and turbinado sugar. Here’s a more complete sugar list with 69 sugar names. This list of sugar facts and sugar names will help you uncover the many hidden sugars that are tucked away everywhere in our food today.
Biopolymers of sugars are common in nature. Through photosynthesis, plants produce glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate (G3P), a phosphated 3-carbon sugar that is used by the cell to make monosaccharides such as glucose (C 6H 12O 6) or (as in cane and beet) sucrose (C 12H 22O 11). In general, galactose does not occur in the free state but is a constituent with glucose of the disaccharide lactose or milk sugar. It is less sweet than glucose. It is a component of the antigens found on the surface of red blood cells that determine blood groups.
While the scientific nomenclature of carbohydrates is complex, the names of the monosaccharides and disaccharides very often end in the suffix-ose. For example, grape sugar is the monosaccharide glucose, cane sugar is the disaccharide sucrose and milk sugar is the disaccharide lactose (see illustration). Carbohydrates perform numerous roles in living organisms.
(2) Any sweet, crystalline solid disaccharide used as sweetener or preservative. Supplement. The term sugar is the generic term for any disachharides (e.g. sucrose) and monosaccharides (e.g. fructose, glucose). Sugars are essential structural component of living cells and source of energy in many organisms. 
Answer by Dudeboy3. Confidence votes 28. The name for the simplest sugar that is in our blood is glucose. There are many other kinds as they become more complex. Monosacchrides include glucose and fructose (from fruit), and then there are disacchrides such as table sugar and lactose (milk sugar). Any chemical species dissolved in water has a (water) formula at the end    for example, salt in water is NaCl(water)    The scientific name for solid sugar is C … 12H22O11    The formula for water is H2O    So the formula for sugar water is...
A molecule of sucrose. Glucose and fructose are monosaccharide sugars. A monosaccharide is the smallest unit of sugar, mono meaning 1. Sucrose is commonly called table sugar and is a disaccharide. A disaccharide is a sugar that is made up of two sugar units, di meaning 2. Sucrose is produced as glucose and fructose are joined together by a condensation reaction. In the process a water molecule is eliminated. See the following equation. These sugar molecules include glucose, sucrose, lactose, fructose, maltose, lactose and galactose. Sugar molecules are classified as monosaccharides or disaccharides. The following table lists the common sugar molecules are their chemical formula. Name.