Rodent-Proof Your Garden. Prevent further damage by making your garden rodent-proof. Fences or barriers around your garden may prevent access to the plants. However, rodents can easily gnaw through wood or burrow underneath fencing. Choose materials such as hard plastic or metal that the pests are less likely to damage. Plant bulbs in a bulb cage. A bulb cage is a wire box that you can purchase at a garden center or make yourself with galvanized steel wiring. Dig a hole where you want to plant your flowers. Place the bulbs inside the cage. Fill with soil and close the lid.
2' x 150' Rodent Barrier. At Benner's Gardens, we offer a PVC-coated steel rodent barrier that you can easily attach to your deer fencing system. These barriers are perfect for areas where there is a high population of rabbits, groundhogs, squirrels, and other rodents. The barrier can be attached to the fence using our ties or hog rings and will give your yard and garden extra protection. 1  Made from PVC-coated steel. 2  Easy to install.
Fig. 1. (left) Electrical cord of a freezer in a retail market, severely damaged by house mice; (right) fiberglass batt insulation within walls of a hog finishing house near Lincoln, Nebraska, was destroyed by house mice in less than 3 years. established rodent habitat. In such situations, the use of 1/2 x 1/2-inch (1.3 x 1.3-cm) hardware cloth is a reasonable compromise between ventilation requirements and rodent control. Exterior Doors. Doors should fit tightly, the distance between the bottom of the door and the threshold not exceeding 1/4 inch (0.6 cm).
If you notice burrowing rodents accessing your garden, you may need to extend the fencing below ground level as well. Extend it at least 6 into the ground (more if you need to). It should also extend above ground level to deter the rodents that would gnaw there too. A rodent fence isn't always necessary. However, it is a good preventive measure to help protect gardens, trees, and shrubs. Another good thing about it is that it removes an attractant from rodents so that they more likely to go elsewhere, and less likely to cause a problem in the yard or home
Rodents also serve as vectors or reservoirs of a variety of diseases, such as salmonellosis, leptospirosis, and murine typhus, that are transmittable to humans. Additionally, they may be sources of swine dysentery, brucellosis, sarcoptic mange, and tuberculosis, all of which affect livestock or pets. In such situations, the use of 1/2 x 1/2-inch (1.3 x 1.3-cm) hardware cloth is a reasonable compromise between ventilation requirements and rodent control. Exterior Doors. Doors should fit tightly, the distance between the bottom of the door and the threshold not exceeding 1/4 inch (0.6 cm).
It can be a stand-alone fence, or attached to a regular or deer fence, or can even be sunk into the ground to help prevent burrowing rodents. This type of fencing is typically made from heavier-duty materials (like steel) so that it is effective a gainst a rodent's amazing gnawing ability. Extend it at least 6 into the ground (more if you need to). It should also extend above ground level to deter the rodents that would gnaw there too. A rodent fence isn't always necessary. However, it is a good preventive measure to help protect gardens, trees, and shrubs.
Designing and constructing a rodent-proof building is less expensive than adding rodent-proofing later. Nevertheless, poor maintenance or management practices, such as leaving entry doors and unscreened windows open, will make the best constructed building susceptible to rodent entry. In such situations, the use of 1/2 x 1/2-inch (1.3 x 1.3-cm) hardware cloth is a reasonable compromise between ventilation requirements and rodent control. Exterior Doors. Doors should fit tightly, the distance between the bottom of the door and the threshold not exceeding 1/4 inch (0.6 cm).
A rodent fence (or rodent barrier) is a specially-made fence that is meant to keep rodents from gnawing their way into areas where we don't want them, such as gardens. Extend it at least 6 into the ground (more if you need to). It should also extend above ground level to deter the rodents that would gnaw there too. A rodent fence isn't always necessary. However, it is a good preventive measure to help protect gardens, trees, and shrubs.
With the deer proof fence from Benner's Gardens, you simply install it around the area you would like to protect, and let the fence do the rest. Our deer proof fence is also very simple to install. You won't need the help of a professional to implement the fence into your lawn or garden. Benner's Gardens deer proof fence has been the leading solution for garden protection for over 15 years. Our deer proof fence has assisted thousands of home owner and professional landscapers alike save their gardens and lawns from the damages accumulated by deer.