Several minerals make up the lattice architecture of your bones. Calcium is the most abundant mineral in your body and is found in your bones and blood. Along with the minerals phosphorus and magnesium, calcium gives your bones strength and density. This mineral also builds and maintains strong, healthy teeth
Vitamin A. Food sources include: Cod-liver oil, sweet potatoes, carrots, leafy vegetables, and fortified foods such as breakfast cereals. What it does: Promotes good eyesight and normal functioning of the immune system. Vitamin B1 (Thiamine). Food sources include: Enriched, fortified, or whole-grain products such as bread, pasta, and cereals. What it does: Helps the body process carbohydrates and some protein. It also helps your body make red blood cells. Vitamin B3 (Niacin). Food sources include: Poultry, fish, meat, whole grains, and fortified cereals. What it does: Helps with digestion and changing food into energy; helps make cholesterol.
The body needs many minerals; these are called essential minerals. Essential minerals are sometimes divided up into major minerals (macrominerals) and trace minerals (microminerals). These two groups of minerals are equally important, but trace minerals are needed in smaller amounts than major minerals. Iron. Part of a molecule (hemoglobin) found in red blood cells that carries oxygen in the body; needed for energy metabolism. Organ meats; red meats; fish; poultry; shellfish (especially clams); egg yolks; legumes; dried fruits; dark, leafy greens; iron-enriched breads and cereals; and fortified cereals.
It's also needed to make certain chemical messengers in the brain. Vitamin D. Food sources include: Fortified milk, cheese, and cereals; egg yolks; salmon. What it does: Maintains bone health and helps the body process calcium; important for immune system function; may protect from cancer. It also helps your body make red blood cells. Vitamin B3 (Niacin). Food sources include: Poultry, fish, meat, whole grains, and fortified cereals. What it does: Helps with digestion and changing food into energy; helps make cholesterol.
Sources. Iron. Part of a molecule (hemoglobin) found in red blood cells that carries oxygen in the body; needed for energy metabolism. Organ meats; red meats; fish; poultry; shellfish (especially clams); egg yolks; legumes; dried fruits; dark, leafy greens; iron-enriched breads and cereals; and fortified cereals. Zinc
Some minerals such as calcium are needed in large quantities, while others such as zinc are only needed in trace amounts. Zinc is an essential mineral that is important for keeping your immune system strong and helps your body fight infections, heal wounds and repair cells. Calcium is the most abundant mineral in your body and is found in your bones and blood. Along with the minerals phosphorus and magnesium, calcium gives your bones strength and density.
Some minerals need the help of other nutrients to perform their functions well in your body. These include: Calcium: Vitamin D helps you to absorb the calcium from foods. Vitamin D is found in fortified milk and soy or rice beverages, eggs, fish (for example salmon and tuna), and organ meats like liver and heart. 
Red blood cells contain iron, which attaches to oxygen. Minerals are inorganic substances that are found in soil and rocks. They are essential nutrients that the body needs to survive and carry out daily functions and processes. Calcium is the most abundant mineral in your body and is found in your bones and blood. Along with the minerals phosphorus and magnesium, calcium gives your bones strength and density.
Minerals and Immune Function 4 full spectrum of naturally occurring minerals and trace minerals, which act as tuning forks for full‐spectrum mineral resonance in the body. Further, because CMD comes from a sea source (the Great Salt Lake in Utah), it is available in a form and balance that is more natural to the body. Minerals and Immune Function 6 resulting in increased illness and infection and a reduced quality of life and 2) that adequate intakes and status of certain minerals, trace elements, and vitamins support immune function and health.
The body needs many minerals; these are called essential minerals. Essential minerals are sometimes divided up into major minerals (macrominerals) and trace minerals (microminerals). These two groups of minerals are equally important, but trace minerals are needed in smaller amounts than major minerals. The amounts needed in the body are not an indication of their importance. A balanced diet usually provides all of the essential minerals. The two tables below list minerals, what they do in the body (their functions), and their sources in food