1 The average cost for dog vaccinations ranges from $20 to $150 in the first year, and from $10 to $100 per year afterward. You do pay ten dollars for the vet visit, and then the cost for the vaccines. If they were not servicing Louisville at Feeder's, the cost of rescue pets would prohibit my ability to provide medical service for them.
1 The puppies will be given at least four shots of DHLPP vaccine, Corona, worming and rabies shots for a total cost of $200 to $205. DHLPP, more commonly known as the distemper vaccination, is a type of vaccine that prevents several types of canine diseases. It is considered to be one of the most important shots a dog should get even though this is not required by law.
What should be included: Additional costs: 1  Kittens usually receive a combination vaccine for feline distemper, rhinotracheitis and calcivirus at seven weeks, 10 weeks and 13 weeks, with a separate rabies vaccine at 12 or 13 weeks. 2  PetEducation.com offers detailed information on vaccines and a typical vaccination schedule for kittens and cats. That cost $310. I had to bring him back for a distemper booster (he's an adult indoor cat and hadn't been vaccinated since we rescued him several years ago). That was an additional $89. Yep, the cost of everything is grossly over-inflated in MA.
Average Cost of Dog Shots. In the first year, the cost of vaccinating puppies ranges from $20-$200 while the cost of immunizing adult dogs can average between $60 and $100. The gap between $60 and $100 is explained by the age of the dog and vet charge variations.
1 Puppies need to get a series of vaccinations which is spread out over three months. 2  The puppies will be given at least four shots of DHLPP vaccine, Corona, worming and rabies shots for a total cost of $200 to $205. DHLPP, more commonly known as the distemper vaccination, is a type of vaccine that prevents several types of canine diseases. It is considered to be one of the most important shots a dog should get even though this is not required by law.
1 The clinic offers individual vaccination clinic prices, which are offered every Tuesday and Thursday for DHLPP; this service is priced at $14 to $15. 2  They also offer vaccinations every second Sunday of every month for $12 to $13. DHLPP, more commonly known as the distemper vaccination, is a type of vaccine that prevents several types of canine diseases. It is considered to be one of the most important shots a dog should get even though this is not required by law.
Vaccinations provide critical protections for pets. Vaccinations are critical for the health of your dogs and cats. Without them, your pet is at risk for rabies, distemper, parvovirus, panleukopenia and other diseases. The cost of vaccines to prevent disease will save you thousands of dollars in treating disease. Cost at Traditional Veterinarians. Traditional veterinary clinics are the most expensive places to have your pet vaccinated. Most vets will charge an office visit of $35 to $60 in addition to the cost of the vaccines. Individual vaccine costs may range from $20 to $40, and most pets need three annual vaccines. Vaccination at a traditional veterinarian may cost $100 to $200 per pet
1 The average cost for cat vaccinations ranges from $45 to $85 and up in the first year, and from $10 to $35 and up per year afterward. That cost $310. I had to bring him back for a distemper booster (he's an adult indoor cat and hadn't been vaccinated since we rescued him several years ago). That was an additional $89. Yep, the cost of everything is grossly over-inflated in MA.
1 Other factors considered for the difference in the price of the shots is the number of shots that will be administered to the dog. 2  On average, the complete set of shots can range from $12 to $25 per shot, totaling more than $150 for the complete series. DHLPP, more commonly known as the distemper vaccination, is a type of vaccine that prevents several types of canine diseases. It is considered to be one of the most important shots a dog should get even though this is not required by law.