In most networks, a singledynamic routing protocol is used; however, there are cases where different parts of the net-work can use different routing protocols.Since the early 1980s, several different dynamic routing protocols have emerged. For this purpose, a metric is used. A metric is a value used byrouting protocols to assign costs to reach remote networks. The metric is used to determinewhich path is most preferable when there are multiple paths to the same remote network.Each routing protocol calculates its metric in a different way.
I believe that the prior response has confused metric with Administrative Distance. A static route does have an Administrative Distance and by default it is 1 and can be set to some different value. Metrics are used by dynamic routing protocols. A static route does not have a metric unless it is being redistributed into a dynamic routing protocol and in that case the assignment of metric is dependent on the particular routing protocol (OSPF does it differently from EIGRP which does it differently from RIP). HTH. 
Purpose of Dynamic Routing Protocols A routing protocol is a set of processes, algorithms, and messages that are used to exchangerouting information and populate the routing table with the routing protocol’s choice of bestpaths. For this purpose, a metric is used. A metric is a value used byrouting protocols to assign costs to reach remote networks. The metric is used to determinewhich path is most preferable when there are multiple paths to the same remote network.Each routing protocol calculates its metric in a different way.
Most routing protocols have metric structures and algorithms that are not compatible with other protocols. In a network with multiple routing protocols, the exchange of route information and the capability to select the best path across the multiple protocols are critical. Select the Best Path. Administrative distance is the first criterion that a router uses to determine which routing protocol to use if two protocols provide route information for the same destination. Administrative distance is a measure of the trustworthiness of the source of the routing information.
Metric. If a router learns two different paths for the same network from the same routing protocol, it has to decide which route is better and will be placed in the routing table. Metric is a measure used to decide which route is better (lower number is better). Each routing protocol uses its own metric. You can display the administrative distance of all routes on your router by typing the show ip route command: In the case above, the router has only one route in its routing table learned from a dynamic routing protocols, an EIGRP route.
Administrative distance is the feature that routers use in order to select the best path when there are two or more different routes to the same destination from two different routing protocols. Administrative distance defines the reliability of a routing protocol. Select the Best Path. Administrative distance is the first criterion that a router uses to determine which routing protocol to use if two protocols provide route information for the same destination. Administrative distance is a measure of the trustworthiness of the source of the routing information.
A network can use more than one routing protocol, and routers on the network can learn about a route from multiple sources. Routers need to find a way to select a better path. Administrative distance number is used by routers to find out which route is better (lower number is better). You can display the administrative distance of all routes on your router by typing the show ip route command: In the case above, the router has only one route in its routing table learned from a dynamic routing protocols, an EIGRP route.
A metric is a measurable value that is assigned by the routing protocol to different routes based on the usefulness of that route. In situations where there are multiple paths to the same remote network, the routing metrics are used to determine the overall “cost” of a path from source to destination. Different routing protocols use different metrics. The metric used by one routing protocol is not comparable to the metric used by another routing protocol. Two different routing protocols might choose different paths to the same
Routing Metrics and Costs. Metrics are cost values used by routers to determine the best path to a destination network. Several factors help dynamic routing protocols decide which is the preferred or shortest path to a particular destination. These factors are known as metrics and algorithms. Metrics are the network variables used in deciding what path is preferred in terms of these metrics. 