If you have a job in law enforcement and are interested in advancing your career, consider returning to school for a master’s degree in criminal justice. Graduate education is personally enriching but it's also a way to differentiate you from others in your field. Leadership and Recognition. A master’s degree in criminal justice will help you become recognized as a leader in your field. You are more likely to be tapped for leadership roles within your organization if you have an advanced degree.
If you are a police officer or are in the trenches of law enforcement, you're becoming a seasoned professional. Earning a master’s degree in criminal justice offers an opportunity to bolster your credibility. Leadership and Recognition. A master’s degree in criminal justice will help you become recognized as a leader in your field. You are more likely to be tapped for leadership roles within your organization if you have an advanced degree.
There is more to a law enforcement degree than simply becoming a police officer. Students with a criminal justice degree in law enforcement can become entry-level public or private security officers, security guards, corrections officers, or private bodyguards. Since nearly all large businesses need security, there are many different options for educated law enforcement professionals. Generally, one can choose to work for the government (like on a police force) or in the private sector (like a private investigator). 1  Police Patrol Officer. 2  The typical cop on the beat, police patrol officers are the backbone of public safety and security in the law enforcement world.
Courses. CSU-Global’s accredited online bachelor’s degree in criminal justice and law enforcement administration is designed to provide you with a practical knowledge of the law enforcement field. The program consists of 10 three-credit core courses as part of a full 120-credit bachelor’s degree. 
A master’s degree in law enforcement focuses on specialized areas of law enforcement and the criminal justice system. Such areas might include forensic psychology, leadership, teaching, and consulting. A master’s degree in law enforcement can quickly open the door to work at the state and federal levels. In simpler times, entry into law enforcement did not require much education beyond high school. However with increases in the crime rate and fear of terrorist attacks on the rise, it is now more important for law enforcement workers to be highly educated and technically savvy.
It will be interesting to you, will help you advance in your career, will be respected, and will work with your busy schedule. An associate’s or bachelor's degree in law enforcement will provide you with a strong foundation to advance your policing career. A good law enforcement degree will help you advance your career. You will be able to apply what you learn and show that your skills and knowledge qualify you for promotions and new employment opportunities.
The best degree for law enforcement professionals is a degree that will help you reach your personal and professional goals. While there is not a single path that will work for everyone in every situation, there are several options that can meet each individual's unique needs. A good law enforcement degree will help you advance your career. You will be able to apply what you learn and show that your skills and knowledge qualify you for promotions and new employment opportunities.
1 This career requires at least a high school diploma and training in a police academy. 2  Some police academies require an associate degree in law enforcement, criminal justice or a related subject in order to be accepted into the academy. 3  Police Detective. Generally, one can choose to work for the government (like on a police force) or in the private sector (like a private investigator). 1  Police Patrol Officer. 2  The typical cop on the beat, police patrol officers are the backbone of public safety and security in the law enforcement world.
Career Advancement. A master’s degree in criminal justice provides high-level knowledge that can open doors to higher-level positions. Law enforcement is a saturated field, so moving ahead requires skills and experience that will differentiate you from your competition. Leadership and Recognition. A master’s degree in criminal justice will help you become recognized as a leader in your field. You are more likely to be tapped for leadership roles within your organization if you have an advanced degree.
Earn Your Criminal Justice Degree. Our Criminal Justice Bachelor's degree with a Leadership and Management specialization is focused on developing your leadership skills to help you achieve the promotion or specialized assignment you want to advance your career. 