Cholesterol is a waxy, fat-like substance that’s found in all cells of the body. Your body needs some cholesterol to make hormones, vitamin D, and substances that help you digest foods. Your body makes all the cholesterol it needs. However, cholesterol also is found in some of the foods you eat. Cholesterol travels through your bloodstream in small packages called lipoproteins (lip-o-PRO-teens).
The cholesterol that comes from foods you eat is called dietary cholesterol. Your body needs cholesterol to produce hormones, vitamin D, and bile acids, which help absorb fat. The body can make all of the cholesterol it needs.
Aldosterone, cortisol, testosterone, estrogen, and a number of derivatives of the latter two, to name a few. It is also used to form the plasma membranes of all cells. Cholesterol is produced by the body, but it also uses dietary cholesterol. Having high LDL levels is a health risk because it promotes atherosclerosis, which can lead to heart disease. The only way the body has of getting rid of cholesterol is through bile.
Cholesterol is a type of blood lipid. It has a number of subfractions. High density lipoprotein cholesterol (sometimes called HDL, or “good” cholesterol) protects against atherosclerosis, while low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL, or “bad” cholesterol) leads to the development of atherosclerosis.
Other steroid hormones produced from cholesterol include cortisol, which is involved in regulating blood-sugar levels and defending the body against infection, and aldosterone, which is important for retaining salt and water in the body.
Cholesterol is the precursor to a hormone called pregnenolone, which has important functions itself, but is also the precursor to all other steroid hormones.
Endocrine System Endocrine glands-secrete chemical substances called hormones directly into the bloodstream for transport to target tissues. Hormones: three basic types 1. steroid hormones: are lipid originally synthesized from cholesterol There are more than 20 steroid hormones in the body, ie. cortisol, cortisone, estrogen, progesterone, testosterone. Steroids are produced by the gonads (sex hormones) and by the adrenal cortex.