Losing weight will come with good control and added exercise. But as a rule a diabetes instructor will tell you 45-60 gms of carbs per meal and 15-30 for snacks. 3 meals a day and 3 snacks a day. If you are trying to lose weight I'd stick to the low end of that range and add exercise. I suggest you ask your doctor to send you to a dietitian or a nutritionist or diabetic educator that deals with carbs for a training session or 2 that will teach you how to count carbs and also suggest how many carbs/carb grams you should have each day.
1 Sedentary individuals with insulin resistance: 50-150 grams per day. 2  Otherwise healthy people looking to lose fat who engage in high intensity exercise: 1-3 grams per pound of body weight (along with 1-2 grams of protein per pound of body weight and 30-40 grams of healthy fat per day). The only way to know for sure the proper amount of carbs you should eat to lose fat is to experiment and find what works best for you. Still, there are some general rules and guidelines that can at least give you a starting point from which to work.
The amount of carbs you can eat depends on your age, sex, height, weight, and activity level. On average females can have 3-4 servings of carbs for each meal, and a serving of carbs in between meals. A serving of carbohydrates is 15 grams of carbs. On average, a male can have 5-6 servings of carbs for each meal and a serving of carb in between each meal. Remember, though, that the type of carb matters to. As a diabetic, you should choose carbs that are whole grains. Whole grains contain fiber and nutrients, and they help keep you satiated longer
Age 65 Moderate low carb diet 40-60 carbs a day Moderate Exercise-daily walking 3-5 miles, hiking on weekends in good weather, climbing mountains in the summer, light weight training with weights and bars. Tennis- 2 hours per week. Moderate low carb diet 40-60 carbs a day.
Recommended Calories: 2,000–2,200 per day. The amount of calories it takes to maintain your weight depends a great deal on how active you are. Men who exercise daily can eat as many as 2,600 calories a day; an athlete in training can down as many as 3,000 calories. Calorie Tip: Eat the bulk of your calories in the middle of the day when you're most active, says dietitian and diabetes educator Patricia Davidson.
A: Generally speaking, being a woman means you likely need to eat fewer carbohydrates each day than a man. However, the amount of carbohydrates you need should depend on many factors, including your size, age, activity, desire to lose weight, and food preferences. There is not a one-size-fits-all amount of carbohydrates for all women. Everyone is different and has diverse nutritional needs. Carb intake depends on:
In studies of patients with type 2 diabetes, a low-carb version of the diet (restricting carbohydrates to less than 50% of total calories) worked better than a low-fat diet in promoting weight loss, reducing A1C levels, and improving insulin sensitivity and glycemic control. 
Patients with type 1 diabetes should have a diet that has approximately 35 calories per kg of body weight per day (or 16 calories per pound of body weight per day). If you have a child who has type 1 diabetes, we encourage you to read our article about meal planning for children with type 1 diabetes. A person with diabetes on a 1,600 calorie diet should get 50% of these calories from carbohydrates. This would be a total of 800 calories of carbohydrates (at 4 calories per gram) spread out over the day.
Most adults need 6-11 servings of carbs per day, depending on the factors listed above. The general starting point for a moderate-size woman is 45-60 grams of carbohydrates at each meal; for moderate-size men, 60-75 grams of carbs per meal. Most people with diabetes don't need to eat snacks. However, the amount of carbohydrates you need should depend on many factors, including your size, age, activity, desire to lose weight, and food preferences. There is not a one-size-fits-all amount of carbohydrates for all women. Everyone is different and has diverse nutritional needs. Carb intake depends on:
In addition, the amount of protein and fat in your diet will also influence the amount of carbs you should be eating per day. Use these are starting points and adjust based on your response: 1  Sedentary individuals with insulin resistance: 50-150 grams per day. The only way to know for sure the proper amount of carbs you should eat to lose fat is to experiment and find what works best for you. Still, there are some general rules and guidelines that can at least give you a starting point from which to work.