Dramaturgy is a practice-based as well as practice-led discipline invented by Gotthold Ephraim Lessing (the author of well known plays like “Miss Sara Sampson”, “Emilia Galotti”, “Minna von Barnhelm” or “Nathan the Wise”) in the 18th century. Freytag's book is seen as the blue print forthe first Hollywood screenwriting manuals. The Technique of Play Writing by Charlton Andrews, 1915, refers to European and German traditions of dramaturgy and understanding dramatic composition.
My hope is that the next time you see someone listed in the program as a dramaturg, you'll have some sense of what that person might have done for that production. For my part, I've added the word dramaturg to my Microsoft Word dictionary, which is another step in the right direction. My own concept of the role has been heavily influenced by the wonderful work I have seen some talented dramaturgs do, both inside and outside of the theater. I think of them every time I answer the question, what exactly is a dramaturg? (and, believe it or not, I get asked that question a lot).
Put simply, the main role of a Dramaturg is to become the playwright’s representative in the production. That’s to say, it is the job of the Dramaturg to know as much about the play, its language and the context surrounding its creation as the original playwright did. It can be a difficult question to answer as there is still some debate about how the role fits in to the British system of producing theatre. Some people see it as a purely new writing mentorship role, akin to a Literary Manager. Others like to think of it along the lines of an Assistant Director or a researcher.
Duties. The dramaturg—sometimes referred to as the literary manager—is a resident employee of a theater company and works in support of the director, cast, and crew in a number of capacities. A liberal arts education is the best foundation for a career as a dramaturg. A bachelor’s degree is required, but a master’s degree is typically preferred. Majors in an area of literature or theater study are
The dramaturg is a critical thinker that provides literary, cultural and artistic insight before, during, and sometimes after the creation of a piece. My own concept of the role has been heavily influenced by the wonderful work I have seen some talented dramaturgs do, both inside and outside of the theater. I think of them every time I answer the question, what exactly is a dramaturg? (and, believe it or not, I get asked that question a lot).
If you need it done for a production, a dramaturg can do it! If you are interested in more information, one of the best places to begin is the Literary Managers and Dramaturgs of the America’s (LMDA) website. By the way, what we aren’t: librarians surrounded by stacks of dusty books (unless the job calls for it). 
For some time now attempts have been made to explain exactly what a dramaturg is and precisely what the art of dramturgy is likely to be. Some of these explanations have been quite persuasive, a few even ingenious, and yet I'm still not convinced that most people have caught up with these terms. 
A dramaturge or dramaturg is a professional position within a theatre or opera company that deals mainly with research and development of plays or operas. Its modern-day function was originated by the innovations of Gotthold Ephraim Lessing, an 18th-century German playwright, philosopher, and theorist about theatre. One of the dramaturge's contributions is to categorize and discuss the various types of plays or operas, their interconnectedness and their styles.
Dramaturgy is the study of dramatic composition and the representation of the main elements of drama on the stage. Freytag's book is seen as the blue print forthe first Hollywood screenwriting manuals. The Technique of Play Writing by Charlton Andrews, 1915, refers to European and German traditions of dramaturgy and understanding dramatic composition.
Responsibilities [edit]. One of the dramaturge's contributions is to categorize and discuss the various types of plays or operas, their interconnectedness and their styles.