Symptoms of sciatica include pain that begins in your back or buttock and moves down your leg and may move into your foot. Weakness, tingling, or numbness in the leg may also occur. 1  Sitting, standing for a long time, and movements that cause the spine to flex (such as knee-to-chest exercises) may make symptoms worse.
1 Sciatica is nerve pain from irritation of the sciatic nerve. 2  The sciatic nerve is the largest nerve in the body. 3  Sciatica pain is typically felt from the low back to behind the thigh and radiating down below the knee. 4  Treatments for sciatica depend on the underlying cause and the severity of the pain.
1 The sciatic nerve is the largest nerve in the body. 2  Sciatica pain is typically felt from the low back to behind the thigh and radiating down below the knee. 3  Treatments for sciatica depend on the underlying cause and the severity of the pain.
The sciatic nerve is the longest nerve in the body, going from the pelvis, through the buttocks, down the legs to the feet. Having a slipped disc in the back is a most common cause of sciatica, but sometimes doctors do not find an obvious cause of the pain.
Sciatica is pain, tingling, or numbness produced by an irritation of the nerve roots that lead to the sciatic nerve. The sciatic nerve is formed by the nerve roots coming out of the spinal cord into the lower back. It goes down through the buttock, then its branches extend down the back of the leg to the ankle and foot.
The main nerve traveling down the leg is the sciatic nerve. Pain associated with the sciatic nerve usually originates when nerve roots in the spinal cord become compressed or damaged. Symptoms can include tingling, numbness, or pain that radiates to the buttocks, legs, and feet.
Sciatica facts. 1  Sciatica is nerve pain from irritation of the sciatic nerve. 2  The sciatic nerve is the largest nerve in the body. 3  Sciatica pain is typically felt from the low back to behind the thigh and radiating down below the knee. 4  Treatments for sciatica depend on the underlying cause and the severity of the pain.
Sciatica Symptoms. Sciatica is a term for pain that radiates along the sciatic nerve, anywhere from the lower back, buttocks, down the back of the leg, to the foot. There may also be weakness, numbness, tingling, particularly in the leg and/or foot.
A variety of lower back conditions may lead to sciatica. Most commonly, a lumbar herniated disc will cause sciatic nerve pain. Other common disorders that cause sciatic pain include lumbar degenerative disc disease, spondylolisthesis, spinal stenosis, or osteophytes and arthritis in the spine.