1 Dry and buff the silver with a soft, clean cloth. 2  Remove light tarnish with a liquid non-abrasive, unscented aloe-free hand sanitizer, such as Purell, or Windex with vinegar. 3  Moisten a large cotton ball and rotate it regularly as you clean the tarnish. 4  Dry the silver with a cotton dish towel. Cleaning sterling silver involves removing tarnish and then polishing the piece to bring out the shine. Tarnish is the oxidization that occurs when air-borne sulfurs and chlorides are present, causing a yellowish cast on the sterling silver.
Windex is often used to shine up silver and gold jewelry, including some gemstones (but not the delicate stones listed above; also don’t use Windex or any other ammonia solution on oxidized sterling silver, since the ammonia can damage the oxidized finish). For plain sterling silver jewelry (with no stones), you can also get good results using commercial silver dip liquid, polish paste, or polish cloth. I wouldn’t use these products on jewelry containing gemstones, though.
If the sterling silver has dulled but is not heavily tarnished, it can be cleaned with soap and water. Mix together warm water and mild phosphate-free detergent or dishwashing liquid. Place the silver jewelry in the solution and swirl it around. Use a soft toothbrush to lightly scrub at intricately detailed patterns. Windex. If you're pressed for time and want to give a favorite piece of sterling silver a quick shine, reach for some Windex Multi-Surface Cleaner. Spray a little Windex on a soft cloth or a cotton ball and gently rub the tarnish off of your silver.
It is highly recommended that you avoid using toothbrushes or any object with bristles to clean your silver jewelry. Silver is a very soft metal, and this will result in permanent scratches which will devalue your jewelry. It is also a bad idea to wash sterling silver jewelry with stainless steel jewelry. Each cloth lasts for dozens of uses Hand polishing silver is a great way to keep silver shiny, and will not damage its patina. A Trade Secret: Windex (yes, Windex). Another easy way to clean jewelry if the piece doesn’t have any cubic zirconia, glued stones, or other precious stones, is to use Windex.
Sterling silver is a soft, malleable metal and can be easily scratched or damaged. Therefore, when cleaning silver jewelry, use polishes that are specifically formulated to remove tarnish from silver jewelry. Some companies provide polishing cloths, silver storage pouches, or both with the purchase of their jewelry. Also, avoid exposing your silver jewelry to harsh chemicals, bleach and chlorine, as these can damage the silver. Another great way to clean your sterling silver jewelry is with Windex. Yes…Windex.
Spray Windex on the jewelry, wait a few moments, rinse, and wipe clean with a soft, dry cloth. There’s also an easy method for removing tarnish from sterling silver using a few items you already have in your kitchen. See How to Clean Tarnished Silver Jewelry for using this method. And again, you can also use an ionic cleaner to remove tarnish and quickly get sterling silver sparkling like new. For plain sterling silver jewelry (with no stones), you can also get good results using commercial silver dip liquid, polish paste, or polish cloth. I wouldn’t use these products on jewelry containing gemstones, though.
Most people are guilty of wearing their jewelry in the shower, to the gym, while cleaning the house, gardening or preparing dinner. Overtime, those activities, as well as, the residue from soaps, cleaning solutions, lotions, and dirt not only dim the shine of jewelry, but they can also damage the metal and gemstones. Some companies provide polishing cloths, silver storage pouches, or both with the purchase of their jewelry. Also, avoid exposing your silver jewelry to harsh chemicals, bleach and chlorine, as these can damage the silver. Another great way to clean your sterling silver jewelry is with Windex. Yes…Windex.
Dipping the jewelry in Windex and then in clean water can make jewelry shiny again. It is not as effective as a jewelry cloth cleaner, but it can be used in a pinch when you’re at a show and a jewelry cleaning cloth is not available (just find the janitor and ask to borrow a quarter bottle of Windex!). Each cloth lasts for dozens of uses Hand polishing silver is a great way to keep silver shiny, and will not damage its patina. A Trade Secret: Windex (yes, Windex). Another easy way to clean jewelry if the piece doesn’t have any cubic zirconia, glued stones, or other precious stones, is to use Windex.
Always Clean Silver Jewelry with a Polishing Cloth. The best option for cleaning silver jewelry is to use a jewelry cleaning cloth, which has two sheets of cotton: the outer layer is cotton for buffing, and the inside layer contains special chemicals that will whiten silver jewelry and make it look like new. Each cloth lasts for dozens of uses Hand polishing silver is a great way to keep silver shiny, and will not damage its patina. A Trade Secret: Windex (yes, Windex). Another easy way to clean jewelry if the piece doesn’t have any cubic zirconia, glued stones, or other precious stones, is to use Windex.
Then, rinse the item(s) under luke warm water and dry with a soft cloth. Avoid using harsh chemicals or abrasives to clean your jewelry, as this can cause scratches and reduce the gold's luster. When your gold jewelry is not being worn, store items in a soft pouch or separate compartment of your jewelry box. Some companies provide polishing cloths, silver storage pouches, or both with the purchase of their jewelry. Also, avoid exposing your silver jewelry to harsh chemicals, bleach and chlorine, as these can damage the silver. Another great way to clean your sterling silver jewelry is with Windex. Yes…Windex.