Biggest Earthworms in the World. If you have ever wondered how fantastically big our earthworm friends can get, then you’re at the right place. Here are 5 of the biggest earthworm species from all around the world. Music: Kailo. – Say that Way http://goo.gl/mSbVAi. 
These giant earthworms average 1 metre (3.3 ft) long and 2 centimetres (0.79 in) in diameter and can reach 3 metres (9.8 ft) in length; however, their body is able to expand and contract making them appear much larger. On average they weigh about 200 grams (0.44 lb). 
Binomial name: Megascolides australis. Discovered in 1878, one of the world’s largest worm is an earthworm that is one of 1,000 native Australian earthworms on record today. Called the “Giant Gippsland Earthworm,” this massive creature has the ability to grow anywhere from 6.5 to 10 feet in length and around 0.8 inches (2 cm) in diameter. The longest Giant Gippsland worm on record, however, was 13 feet long. Like other earthworms, the Giant Gippsland Earthworm needs water and moisture to survive. This means, the Gippsland rarely leaves its wet underground labyrinth
Living underground and mostly out of sight, squiggly earthworms seem like such humble, mundane organisms -- that is, unless it's Australia's Giant Gippsland earthworm, which is believed to be the world's largest species of worm. Native to southeastern state of Victoria, and found only in the Bass River Valley of South Gippsland, the Giant Gippsland worm (Megascolides australis) measures on average 3.3 feet (1 metre) long, and 0.79 inches (2 centimeters) in diameter, and weighs about 0.44 lb (200 grams).
While the Giant Gippsland in Australia can grow up to 10 feet long, the largest earthworm ever recorded was found in 1967 in Williamstown Africa, and measured a whopping 22 feet long from nose to tail. 
(Annelida: Oligochaeta: Haplotaxida: Megascolecidae). Profile prepared by Sarah Foltz Jordan, The Xerces Society for Invertebrate Conservation. The Oregon giant earthworm is one of North America’s largest worm species, reaching up to 1.32 m (4.3 ft.) in length. It is known from 15 sites in the Willamette Valley of Oregon and one site in the Oregon Coast Range. Adult: The Oregon giant earthworm is one of the largest North American earthworms (Wells et al. 1983). It is distinguished by its characteristic large size (up to 1.32 m in length and between .5 and 1 cm in diameter), pale whitish color, and distinctive, floral (lily-like) odor (Fender 2009, pers.
In fact, there’s a species of worm from South Africa that grow to an average of 1.8 m (6 feet) long. Now that’s fairly big by any means, but it doesn’t come close to the longest worm ever recorded. The longest worm ever recorded also came from South Africa, and is of the same species. In 1967 a South African earthworm was discovered on the side of the road that measured an eye gouging 6.7 m (22 feet) in length. 
1 There can more than one million earthworms in just one acre of land. 2  This is something to consider the next time you take a look out across your yard. 3  There are somewhere around 2,700 different types of earthworms in the world. 4  The largest earthworm ever recorded was found in South Africa. 
Making the world better, one answer at a time. The longest worm ever recorded was in a families backyard in australia with a size of 18 feet 7 inches........ 