Chlorophyll is a green pigment found in plants. Plants use chlorophyll and light to make food. People use chlorophyll as medicine. Common sources of chlorophyll used for medicine include alfalfa (Medicago sativa) and silkworm droppings. Chlorophyll is used for bad breath and reducing colostomy odor. A colostomy is a surgical opening made in the abdomen that allows intestinal waste to be collected in a bag.
Chlorophyll is the pigment that gives plants and algae their green color. Plants use chlorophyll to trap light needed for photosynthesis (1) . The basic structure of chlorophyll is a porphyrin ring similar to that of heme in hemoglobin, although the central atom in chlorophyll is magnesium instead of iron. Two different types of chlorophyll (chlorophyll a and chlorophyll b) are found in plants (Figure 1). The small difference in one of the side chains allows each type of chlorophyll to absorb light at slightly different wavelengths.
Chlorophyll is vital for photosynthesis, which allows plants to absorb energy from light. Chlorophyll molecules are specifically arranged in and around photosystems that are embedded in the thylakoid membranes of chloroplasts. In these complexes, chlorophyll serves two primary functions. When sunlight returns in the spring and summer, the plants flourish in high concentrations. Chlorophyll (also chlorophyl) is a term used for several closely related green pigments found in cyanobacteria and the chloroplasts of algae and plants. Its name is derived from the Greek words χλωρός, chloros (green) and φύλλον, phyllon (leaf)
If a food is fresh and green, it’s probably a good source of chlorophyll. It’s in leafy greens, wheat grass, broccoli, asparagus, peas, and herbs like alfalfa. As a supplement, chlorophyll comes in a few different forms, including tablets and in liquid form. Chlorophyll supplements aren’t regulated, and their doses vary. If you paid attention in science class, you probably remember that chlorophyll plays an important role in plant life. Chlorophyll is the chemical substance that makes plants green and allows them to absorb energy from sunlight.
Chlorophyll is the molecule that absorbs sunlight and uses its energy to synthesize carbohydrates from CO2 and water. This process is known as photosynthesis and is the basis for sustaining the life processes of all plants. So, no more excuses for not getting your greens: chlorophyll from chlorella, blue-green algae, spirulina, blue-green algae, kelp, green barley, wheat grass and alfalfa. An interesting fact: as the chlorophyll in leaves decays in autumn, the green color fades and is replaced by the oranges and reds of carotenoids.
Chlorophyll is a green pigment present in plants which facilitates the absorption of light from the sun. Chlorophyll has the ability to convert this light energy into usable form which is utilized for various processes such as photosynthesis by virtue of which the green plants prepare their own food. Deodorizing properties: Chlorophyll is a valued for its deodorizing properties. It is an effective remedy to combat bad breath and is used in mouthwashes. Poor digestive health is one of the major causes of bad breath.
3. Encourages Healing. The use of chlorophyll to promote the healing process was first reported nearly 100 years ago. One report published by Butler University (in 1950!) discussed its use for improving healing times. A more recent study found that, when used as a spray, chlorophyll significantly helped wound therapy. 
Chlorophyll is a chemical compound that collects light and uses the light to make energy in plants. Additionally, chlorophyll gives plants their green color. According to “Encyclopedia of Natural Medicine,” liquid chlorophyll can increase the quality and quantity of your red blood cells because the compound has a chemical composition very similar to hemoglobin. Hemoglobin is a molecule found in your red blood cells responsible for transporting oxygen. While hemoglobin has iron as its center atom, liquid chlorophyll has magnesium as its center atom. Increasing the number and quality of your red blood cells can result in better oxygen transportation