Answer 1: Photosynthesis is the ability of plants to absorb the energy of light, and convert it into energy for the plant. To do this, plants have pigment molecules which absorb the energy of light very well. The pigment responsible for most light-harvesting by plants is chlorophyll, a green pigment. 
A pigment is a compound that absorbs a particular wavelength of visible light. Chlorophyll is a green pigment contained in thylakoid membranes of chloroplasts that is used in photosynthesis by plants. In bacteria that also perform photosynthesis, chlorophylls are in the plasma membrane. The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of wavelengths from the radio waves of your car stereo to high-energy gamma rays. Chlorophyll and other pigments absorb specific visible wavelengths of the electromagnetic spectrum. The visible light is literally the colored wavelengths that are visible to your eyes. They range from red at a wavelength of 700 nm to blue at a wavelength of 400 nm
Chlorophyll absorbs certain wavelengths of light within the visible light spectrum. As shown in detail in the absorption spectra, chlorophyll absorbs light in the red (long wavelength) and the blue (short wavelength) regions of the visible light spectrum. Green light is not absorbed but reflected, making the plant appear green. Chlorophyll is found in the chloroplasts of plants. There are various types of chlorophyll structures, but plants contain chlorophyll a and b. These two types of chlorophyll differ only slightly, in the composition of a single side chain.
1 Chlorophyll a: This is the most abundant pigment in plants. 2  Chlorophyll a absorbs light with wavelengths of 430nm(blue) and 662nm(red). 3  It reflects green light strongly so it appears green to us. 4  It contains a hydrophobic (fat soluble) phytol chain that allow it to be embedded in a lipid membrane. 
Chlorophyll a is a specific form of chlorophyll used in oxygenic photosynthesis. It absorbs most energy from wavelengths of violet-blue and orange-red light. Chlorophyll a absorbs light within the violet, blue and red wavelengths while mainly reflecting green. This reflectance gives chlorophyll its green appearance.
The color of the pigment comes from the wavelengths of light that are reflected, or in other words, those wavelengths not absorbed. Chlorophyll, the green pigment common to all photosynthetic cells, absorbs all wavelengths of visible light except green, which it reflects. This is why plants appear green to us. Black pigments absorb all wavelengths of visible light that strike them. White pigments reflect most of the wavelengths striking them. Each pigment has a characteristic absorption spectrum describing how it absorbs or reflects different wavelengths of light.
Photosynthesis uses two types of chlorophyll, chlorophyll a and b, to produce energy. Chlorophyll A. Chlorophyll a absorbs energy from wavelengths of blue-violet and orange-red light at 675 nm. It reflects green light which gives chlorophyll its green appearance. It is very important in the energy phase of photosynthesis because chlorophyll a molecules are needed before photosynthesis can proceed. 
Chlorophyll absorbs light most strongly in the blue portion of the electromagnetic spectrum, followed by the red portion. Conversely, it is a poor absorber of green and near-green portions of the spectrum, hence the green color of chlorophyll-containing tissues. 
Photosynthesis is driven by the use of a pigment or molecule that absorbs a specific wavelength of energy. In this case, the primary pigment is chlorophyll, which is a pigment that absorbs blue and red wavelengths while reflecting green wavelengths. The electromagnetic spectrum is the range of wavelengths from the radio waves of your car stereo to high-energy gamma rays. Chlorophyll and other pigments absorb specific visible wavelengths of the electromagnetic spectrum. The visible light is literally the colored wavelengths that are visible to your eyes. They range from red at a wavelength of 700 nm to blue at a wavelength of 400 nm