Espionage Act. The Espionage Act was passed by Congress in 1917 after the United States entered the First World War. It prescribed a $10,000 fine and 20 years' imprisonment for interfering with the recruiting of troops or the disclosure of information dealing with national defence.
They limited what the citizens could say or do.   The Espionage Act was a direct result of the Selective service act,  which was put in place so that all men ages 18-45 y … ears had to  register for the military draft, and made it illegal for men to  avoid the draft.
While the Espionage Act dealt with many uncontroversial issues such as punishing acts of spying and sabotage and protecting shipping, the act, as amended by the Sedition Act, was extremely controversial for many immigrants who were opposed to war, the military draft, and violations of their free speech rights.
One of the most controversial laws ever passed in the United States, the Espionage Act of 1917 (ch. 30, tit. I § 3, 40 Stat. 217, 219), and an amendment to it passed in 1918 sometimes referred to as the Sedition Act, were an attempt to deal with the climate created in the country by World War I.
Using the Espionage Act, the government charged Schenk with espionage and sedition, with the intent of interfering with the conscription of soldiers.
The Sedition Act made the language of the Espionage Act more specific by making it illegal to use disloyal, profane, or abusive language to criticize the U.S. Constitution, the government, the military, the flag, or the uniform.
In violation of the Espionage Act and Sedition Act, the United States government sentenced Deb to ten years in prison for seditious expression made during a public speech.
“The Espionage Act is so vague and poorly defined in its terms, that it’s hard to say exactly what it does and does not cover,” said Steven Aftergood, who directs the Project on Government Secrecy for the Federation of American Scientists.
A Clear and Present Danger With the passage of the Espionage and Sedition act in 1917, the United States begin to prosecute a number radicals. Charles Schenck, a socialist, distributed fliers which protested the conscription of citizens and also the United State's involvement in WWI.