It is also a fact that the cigarette manufacturers do not intentionally buy rat poison and put it in the cigarettes, but it just happens so, that the rat poisons are found in cigarettes. While smoking cigarettes, people hardly think about the harmful chemicals present in them, neither do they think about the effects of smoking on the body. There is just a strong desire to evade the stress and get relaxed for a while.
There are many different poisonous substances found in tobacco. Some of these are found in products such as rat poison and pesticides, while others are found in household cleaners and solvents. 1  Acetone: This substance is used in nail polish remover and as a plastic solvent. Carcinogens are chemicals that cause various types of cancers. There are at least 60 different carcinogens found in cigarettes. These are just some of them: 1  Benzene: Benzene is a chemical used in a number of industrial applications as well as being
Rat poison in cigarettes or without them, cigarettes themselves are potentially harmful for the smoker as well as the people that get affected by the smoke as with every puff of cigarette, there are just thousands of toxic and carcinogenic substances get active in and out of the human body. While smoking cigarettes, people hardly think about the harmful chemicals present in them, neither do they think about the effects of smoking on the body. There is just a strong desire to evade the stress and get relaxed for a while.
✔ In a similar noted case, a tobacco company scientist admitted during his testimony that coumarin was used for adulteration in cigarettes. ✔ It is also a fact that cigarette manufacturers do not intentionally add rat poison to cigarettes while making them. But, they do show the presence of the poison. ✔ Cigarettes, that are amongst a few harmful products sold legally, cause a major damage to the human body with/without the presence of rat poison. The best way to stay away from the side effects of smoking is to quit smoking. This way you are not just benefiting yourself but the entire society. Knowingly or unknowingly, there is some amount of rat poison present in cigarettes that the smoker inhales and exhales.
Best Answer: Yes and No.. they don't actually go and put rat poison as such into cigarettes. However, some of the poisons naturally occurring in cigarettes match the main ingredients in rat poison. The list of dangerous ingredients is long, and you can see some of it here: http://www.drugabuse.gov/Infofacts/Tobac... or, here: http://quitsmoking.about.com/cs/nicotine... The rat poison question essentially refers to Fluoride (which is the main ingredient in most rat poisons), and the fact that ciggarretes have exteremely high flourine levels. So, it's somewhat of a semantic question if rat poison is put into them.
It is the same gas that is found in the car exhaustion. Arsenic: Arsenic is a powdered trioxide of arsenic that is basically used in manufacturing glass and also as a pesticide and rat poison. Rat Poison in Cigarettes. There are many essential rat poison ingredients, that are found in the cigarettes. While smoking cigarettes, people hardly think about the harmful chemicals present in them, neither do they think about the effects of smoking on the body. There is just a strong desire to evade the stress and get relaxed for a while.
Here are a few of the chemicals in tobacco smoke and other places they are found: 1  Acetone – found in nail polish remover. 2  Acetic Acid – an ingredient in hair dye. 3  Ammonia – a common household cleaner. 4  Arsenic – used in rat poison. 5  Benzene – found in rubber cement. 6  Butane – used in lighter fluid. 
Unit 5. Unit 6 Bibliography. What's in a Cigarette & Disease: Chemicals, Cancer and Heart Disease. The main ingredient in cigarettes is tobacco. Tobacco is a green, leafy plant that is grown in warm climates. Farmers use many chemicals to grow tobacco. They use fertilizers to make the soil rich and insecticides to kill the insects that eat the tobacco plant.
Arsenic is a powdered trioxide of arsenic that is basically used in manufacturing glass and also as a pesticide and rat poison. Presence of Rat Poison in Cigarettes. There are many essential rat poison ingredients found in cigarettes. The best way to stay away from the side effects of smoking is to quit smoking. This way you are not just benefiting yourself but the entire society. Knowingly or unknowingly, there is some amount of rat poison present in cigarettes that the smoker inhales and exhales.