They include an implied warranty of fitness for a particular purpose, an implied warranty of merchantability for products, implied warranty of workmanlike quality for services, and an implied warranty of habitability for a home. An implied warranty of habitability, generally, is a warranty implied by law that by leasing or buying a residential property, the leasor or seller is promising that the property is suitable to be lived in. The warranty of habitability can be breached if there is no heat, hot water, or other essential services.
DEFINITION of 'Implied Warranty'. Under a sales contract, whether written or oral, there is a guarantee that the item sold is merchantable and fit for the purpose intended. This guarantee arises by operation of law and is in addition to any expressed warranties that are provided at the time of sale. BREAKING DOWN 'Implied Warranty'. Most products you buy do not come with a written warranty. For example, when you go to the supermarket, you assume that the stocked items are fresh and edible. This is especially important when the food is prepackaged and you can't visibly inspect it.
An implied warranty of fitness may arise when a buyer requests something for a particular purpose, and the seller then supplies a product for that purpose. 
There are two types of implied warranties: the implied warranty of merchantability and the implied warranty of fitness. Virtually every consumer product you buy comes with an implied warranty of merchantability. This is an assurance that a new item will work if you use it for a reasonably expected purpose. In a few states, however, the implied warranty lasts only as long as any express warranty that comes with a product. Sellers sometimes try to avoid implied warranties by selling a product as is.. In order to effectively negate implied warranties, however, the seller must follow state law requirements.
by FreeAdvice staff. An implied warranty of merchantability is an implied warranty on a product for sale that essentially guarantees through implication, that a product will reasonably conform to a buyer's standards and that the product is suitable for sale. 
Implied Warranties. Most consumer purchases are covered by an implied warranty of merchantability, which means it is guaranteed to work as claimed. For instance, a vacuum cleaner that does not create enough suction to clean an average floor is in breach of the implied warranty of merchantability.
The warranty of merchantability is implied, unless expressly disclaimed by name, or the sale is identified with the phrase  as is  or with all faults.. To be merchantable, the goods must reasonably conform to an ordinary buyer's expectations, i.e., they are what they say they are. An implied warranty of habitability, generally, is a warranty implied by law that by leasing or buying a residential property, the leasor or seller is promising that the property is suitable to be lived in. The warranty of habitability can be breached if there is no heat, hot water, or other essential services.
An implied warranty of fitness for a particular purpose is a warranty implied by law that if a seller knows or has reason to know of a particular purpose for which some item is being purchased by the buyer, the seller is guaranteeing that the item is fit for that particular purpose. An implied warranty of habitability, generally, is a warranty implied by law that by leasing or buying a residential property, the leasor or seller is promising that the property is suitable to be lived in. The warranty of habitability can be breached if there is no heat, hot water, or other essential services.