Thinkstock/Comstock/Getty Images. Net marketing contribution (NMC) is a calculation that determines whether a company's current marketing strategy is enough to cover the costs associated with marketing and sales. The current market demand and your company's market share are important aspects of the NMC calculation. The marketing expenses are any budgeted amount for marketing costs, surplus, manufacturing costs, machine cost and machine overhead. The marketing expenses for the example company are $5,000. Subtract $5,000 from $48,050 to get $43,050. This is your net market contribution.
In the world of business and finance, a margin is the difference between two values or sums of money. Marketing involves a company's attempt to inform potential buyers of its product or service, drawing attention to it in such a way that an audience will be willing to purchase it. A marketing margin applies to a company that buys a product with the intent to resell it. However, while marketing margin is the difference between cost to the seller and the cost to the consumer, profit margin is the percentage of the final sale price that comes as profit for the seller. Related Reading: Low Gross Profit Margin vs. Low Net Profit Margin.
The cost of acquiring a new customer; often 5 to 10 times the cost or retaining an existing customer. The higher a company's customer retention the lower its marketing and sales expenses since the cost of acquiring new customers to replace lost customers is lower. This is the total market sales for a given market definition for one year. It can be measured in dollars or units. The market demand for personal computers could be measured in dollars or units per year worldwide, a region of the world such as Europe, or segment such as home users.
Contribution per unit can be defined as selling price less variable costs. Overall contribution is the difference between total sales revenue s and variable costs. Core product ... Every contribution will be rewarded as follows: If your contribution will be accepted you will be mentioned as the (co-)author of your definition on the page containing it. This way you can gain credibility as an expert. With your name you are entitled to include a link to your website ...
Definition. When companies buy a product to act as a distributor or retailer, it must sell the product at a higher price than that at which they purchased it. In such situations, the marketing margin of a product is the difference between what a company pays for the product and what it charges for the product. However, while marketing margin is the difference between cost to the seller and the cost to the consumer, profit margin is the percentage of the final sale price that comes as profit for the seller. Related Reading: Low Gross Profit Margin vs. Low Net Profit Margin.
An adjusted measure of gross margin that includes marketing and sales costs. It is often abbreviated as NMC and is calculated by the following formula: 2. A measure of profitability that includes only costs and revenues controlled by the marketing function. 
Contribution Margin s (Margin s): [marg] Contribution margin s (or margin s) refer to the amount of revenue per product that is available to contribute towards the fixed cost s and the profit of the company. Contribution. If your contribution will be accepted you will be mentioned as the (co-)author of your definition on the page containing it. This way you can gain credibility as an expert. With your name you are entitled to include a link to your website ...
BREAKING DOWN 'Contribution Margin'. Consider a situation in which a business manager determines that a particular product has a 35% contribution margin, which is below that of other products in the company's product line. If these options are unattractive, the manager may decide to drop the unprofitable product in order to produce an alternate product with a higher contribution margin.
Product Revenue-Product Variable Costs Product Revenue. The phrase contribution margin can also refer to a per unit measure of a product's gross operating margin, calculated simply as the product's price minus its total variable costs. If these options are unattractive, the manager may decide to drop the unprofitable product in order to produce an alternate product with a higher contribution margin.