Jumping Frenchmen of Maine: A rare condition where the startle reflex is greatly exaggerated. The startle reflex in this order is characterized by jumping, raising the arms, yelling, hitting, obeying sudden commands and repeating sentences. 
Its anatomic origin is probably the brain stem. Pathologic startles are defined as reproducible exaggerated startle responses to trivial and not surprising stimuli. Symptomatic forms of an exaggerated startle response can be due to a variety of brain stem disorders. Symptomatic forms of an exaggerated startle response are less frequent and can be due to a variety of brain stem disorders, tetanus, strychnine intoxication or stiff-man syndrome. We have, however, found scant data about an exaggerated startle reflex induced by Lyme neuroborreliosis.
Exaggerated startle reflex is listed as a  rare disease  by the Office of Rare Diseases (ORD) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). This means that Exaggerated startle reflex, or a subtype of Exaggerated startle reflex, affects less than 200,000 people in the US population. These medical condition or symptom topics may be relevant to medical information for Exaggerated startle reflex: 1  Startle reflex. 2  Startle (6 causes). 3  Startle disease. 4  Reflex.
Exaggerated startle, is a feature of various neurologic and psychiatric conditions. Hyperekplexia is an uncommon clinical syndrome that is characterized by brisk and generalized startle in response to trivial (most often acoustic or tactile) stimulation. Click here to view videos depicting startle and myoclonus (Members Only). Startle is a stereotypical response to a sudden and unexpected stimulus. In most instances, the stimulus is acoustic, but other modalities such as tactile, visual, or vestibular are also effective stimuli.
People with startle disease have an exaggerated startle reflex in response to noise and touch, followed by muscle stiffness, which can cause breathing problems and even sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). View full size image. We all jump at an unexpected noise or touch, but in some people, this startle response is exaggerated, and can cause falls and even death. Now, researchers in the United Kingdom have found new genes for this rare disorder, known as startle disease, or more formally as hyperekplexia.
Exaggerated startle disease: A genetic disorder also known as hyperexplexia in which babies have an exaggerated startle reflex (reaction). This disorder was not recognized until 1962 when it was described by Drs. Kok and Bruyn as a disease with the onset at birth of hypertonia (stiffness), exaggerated startle response, strong brain-stem reflexes (especially head-retraction reflex) and, in some cases, epilepsy.
Exaggerated startle reflex: Exaggerated startle reflex is listed as a type of (or associated with) the following medical conditions in our database: 1  Sensory conditions. 2  Nervous system conditions. These medical condition or symptom topics may be relevant to medical information for Exaggerated startle reflex: 1  Startle reflex. 2  Startle (6 causes). 3  Startle disease. 4  Reflex.
Usually the onset of the startle response is a reflex reaction. The startle reflex is a brainstem reflectory reaction (reflex) that serves to protect the back of the neck (whole-body startle) and the eyes (eyeblink) and facilitates escape from sudden stimuli. It is found across the lifespan of many species. An individual's emotional state may lead to a variety of responses
Disease, exaggerated startle: A genetic disorder also known as hyperekplexia in which babies have an exaggerated startle reflex (reaction). This disorder was not recognized until 1962 when it was described by Drs. Kok and Bruyn as a disease with the onset at birth of hypertonia (stiffness), exaggerated startle response, strong brain-stem reflexes (especially head-retraction reflex) and, in some cases, epilepsy.