Let a Chase Mortgage Banker help you find a mortgage that's right for you. Once you've made a selection, you'll be able to contact your Mortgage Banker directly. 
Re: Working as a mortgage banker (loan officer) for Chase Ba. Post by admin » Tue Aug 07, 2012 1:27 am. It's funny because when I started this site I was hoping to show the public how poorly Chase Bank treats their customers. What i didn't realize was how many people that work there hate their jobs. Let me tell you first that I DID apply for many other jobs, and this was the only job that I found. Therefore, when you read the following email, you will be saying if you have so much complaint, get yourself another job. And I do not want you to say that!
AM-Operations-Fiduciary Loan Administration Specialist (Ne... The team member will be communicating with the associated Trust Officer concerning the loans to ensure seamless execution of loan obligations.... 2 days ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all JPMorgan Chase jobs in Newark, DE-Newark jobs. CCB-Mortgage Risk-CAO and Operations-MD-Lewisville,... Chase originates home loans through more than 5,600 bank branches, as well as through correspondent lenders across the country, call centers and mortgage... 1 day ago-save job-email-more... 1  View all JPMorgan Chase jobs in Lewisville, TX-Lewisville
If you are thinking of becoming a loan officer, DO NOT do that...$1600 base salary, and $400 for each loan closed is not worth...and the headache you will get is priceless. Let me tell you first that I DID apply for many other jobs, and this was the only job that I found. Therefore, when you read the following email, you will be saying if you have so much complaint, get yourself another job. And I do not want you to say that!
As Loan Officers transition into upper-level roles such as Bank VP or Branch Manager, they may see a strong upturn in salary. Bank VPs & Branch Managers earn $71K on average per year. The most common next step for a Loan Officer is to become a Banking Branch Manager or a Commercial Loan Officer. The loan officer will sometimes work with individual applicants or companies, depending on the position. Customer service is important, so that the client feels at ease and chooses the company for their loan needs on an ongoing basis. In some jobs, the loan officer will have sales goals that need to be attained.
Resolved Question: My spouse is a mortgage loan officer for JPMorgan Chase Bank. He's paid strictly by commission with no base salary, works a minimum of 40-50 hours weekly and receives no comp time for hours worked in excess of 40 hours per week. Yesterday, 3/2, his employer announced a change in the Federal Law mandating employers now pay a base salary to commission employees; plus compensation for any hours in excess of 40 per week.
For those looking to make money, Loan Officers in Phoenix enjoy an exceptional pay rate, 60 percent above the national average. Loan Officers can also look forward to large paychecks in cities like Chicago (+57 percent), Los Angeles (+33 percent), San Antonio (+22 percent), and Philadelphia (+16 percent). The loan officer will sometimes work with individual applicants or companies, depending on the position. Customer service is important, so that the client feels at ease and chooses the company for their loan needs on an ongoing basis. In some jobs, the loan officer will have sales goals that need to be attained.
With an average salary of $71,800 per year, loan officers are better paid than insurance sales agents ($63,610) and real estate agents ($53,140). However, there are other business jobs that are even more lucrative, including financial analysts ($91,620), financial advisors ($99,920) and financial managers ($126,660). The pay scale for evaluating, originating and approving loans varies broadly. The median salary for a loan officer in 2013 was $61,420, according to the BLS. Top earners made a lucrative $122,770, while those in the bottom 10th percentile earned about $33,220. According to Donnelly, many loan officers receive their pay from commissions, so their earnings could fluctuate from year to year