Pancreatitis -- inflammation of the pancreas -- and pancreatic cancer are less common causes of middle upper abdominal pain. The pain from these conditions can vary from dull to severe, is usually fairly constant and often radiates to your back.
Organs of the abdomen include the stomach, small intestine, colon, liver, gallbladder, spleen, and pancreas. Abdominal pain can range in intensity from a mild stomach ache to severe acute pain. The pain is often nonspecific and can be caused by a variety of conditions.
Upper abdominal pain is often caused by conditions like indigestion, gallstones, gastritis, and stomach ulcer. Other more serious conditions like heart attack or acute pancreatitis could be the cause of upper stomach pain.
Middle Upper Abdominal Pain. The most common causes of pain in the pit of your stomach are peptic ulcer disease, acid reflux and gastritis, or inflammation of the stomach lining. If your pain is worse when your stomach is empty and abates when you eat, you may have an ulcer.
Abdominal pain has many potential causes. Many causes, such as gas pains or a pulled muscle, aren't serious, while other conditions require timely medical attention. Often, the location of the abdominal pain can provide an important clue as to its cause. At other times, abdominal pain may occur in unexpected patterns, and its cause is less obvious.
Upper middle abdomen: Pain in the upper middle section of your stomach, just above your abdomen, may be a sign of a stomach disorder. Persistent upper middle abdomen pain may be related to your pancreas or gallbladder.
Constipation is the most common cause of stomach pain in children, new research shows. Because your abdomen houses numerous organs (your stomach, small intestine, colon, liver, gallbladder, and pancreas), the first step to identifying the cause of your stomach pain is to figure out where it hurts. According to the Mayo Clinic, you can then narrow down the source accordingly.
Pain in the upper abdomen can often be attributed to temporary problems such as indigestion or gas. Persistent or severe upper abdominal pain may be related to other digestive tract conditions or to conditions of the body wall, blood vessels, kidneys, heart, or lungs.