Part 2 of 4: Specialized help for dry skin. 1. Trade an exfoliating scrub for a baby's washcloth. Instead of using a harsh scrub to strip your skin of excess oil and dead skin, wipe them away with a soft baby's washcloth, which will get the job done while causing less irritation to your face. Men have an extra concern when it comes to dry skin on the face. Poor shaving habits can actually result in drier skin, so guys should take note and shave carefully to avoid making matters worse. 1  The shaving process removes both hair and oil from your skin, and the removal of natural oil can cause your skin to dry out.
Your skin can get dry for a wide variety of unfortunately common reasons. Find out why your skin is so dry with help from a talented and experienced makeup artist in this free video clip. 
1. Moisturize frequently and consistently. The need to moisturize your skin when it's dry may seem like a no-brainer, but it's important that you know how to moisturize effectively. For instance, piling on an inch-thick layer of moisturizer once a week isn't going to do your skin much good. If you have combination skin, it may be necessary to use a lighter moisturizer on the parts of your skin that gets oily (like your t-zone) and a heavier one where your skin gets dry. 4. Choose the right cleansers. Be careful when choosing a facial or body cleanser, as some cleansers can strip moisture from the skin.
The truth is there could be a lot of reasons why your face has become suddenly dry. Here are just a few of those reasons and ways that you can correct the situation. You're Using The Wrong Face Soap. You may simply be using the wrong face soap or skin cleanser on your face. Skincare Remedies for Dry Skin. You will be happy to know that there is help in the form of gentle cleansers, toners and moisturizers that we have discovered to be the ideal solution to get rid of dry skin. There are creams or lotions that will help you find answers as to why is my face so dry.
Dry, itchy skin can be unbearable. Dry skin can happen any time during the year, but is most prevalent in winter (hence the term, winter itch). Find out why your skin tends to be dry in winter and how to solve dry hands, feet, body, face and lips year-round. Layer Creams Over Oils. Body creams are meant to keep moisture in, but they don't add moisture to the skin quite like oils do. This is why I love to apply body oils (coconut oil and almond oil are my favorites) and then when that's soaked in, I'll apply a cream.
The skin on your face is especially sensitive, so it can dry out quicker than the rest of your skin. Here are a few helpful tricks and techniques to make dry, itching, and flaky facial skin go away for good. Men have an extra concern when it comes to dry skin on the face. Poor shaving habits can actually result in drier skin, so guys should take note and shave carefully to avoid making matters worse. 1  The shaving process removes both hair and oil from your skin, and the removal of natural oil can cause your skin to dry out.
Thick lotions can help relieve dry skin. Photo Credit BananaStock/BananaStock/Getty Images. If you are tired of the scaling, cracking, peeling and irritating, itching symptoms of dry skin, relief is within your reach. Most of the time, dry skin is caused by lifestyles and environmental conditions that can be altered. If your skin is dry, it may appear rough, shrunken, dehydrated and flaky or scaly. Sometimes dry skin can become so severe that it becomes red and produces deep fissures that may bleed. Dry skin may also be intensely itchy on a regular basis and feel particularly tight after it is exposed to water
Part of the reason why the skin on our faces is so dry is due to a lack of sufficient moisture. Our facial skin layers consist of dead skin cells a lot of the time, which gets pushed to the surface as our skin regenerate itself. Skincare Remedies for Dry Skin. You will be happy to know that there is help in the form of gentle cleansers, toners and moisturizers that we have discovered to be the ideal solution to get rid of dry skin. There are creams or lotions that will help you find answers as to why is my face so dry.
Use mild, warm water instead of hot water. Warm water relaxes your pores and makes it easier to wash your face, but hot water can cause your skin to dry out faster. 1  The ideal temperature for water when washing your face would be just a fraction warmer than lukewarm. Men have an extra concern when it comes to dry skin on the face. Poor shaving habits can actually result in drier skin, so guys should take note and shave carefully to avoid making matters worse. 1  The shaving process removes both hair and oil from your skin, and the removal of natural oil can cause your skin to dry out.