E Pluribus Unum. (ē plo͝or`ĭbəs yo͞o`nəm) [Lat.,=one made out of many], motto on the Great Seal of the United States and on many U.S. coins. Although selected in 1776 by Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, and Thomas Jefferson for the Continental Congress, it was not officially adopted as a national motto until six years later
: one out of many —used on the Great Seal of the United States and on several United States coins. 
Pluribus is related to the English word:  plural .. Unum is related to the English word:  unit .. E Pluribus Unum describes an action: Many uniting into one. An accurate translation of the motto is From Many, One or Out of Many, One   a phrase that captures the symbolism on the shield. E pluribus unum is the motto suggested by the committee Congress appointed on July 4, 1776 to design a seal for the United States of America.. The below sketch of their design accompanied a detailed description of their idea for the new nation's official emblem.
According to the U.S. Treasury, the motto E pluribus unum was first used on U.S. coinage in 1795, when the reverse of the half-eagle ($5 gold) coin presented the main features of the Great Seal of the United States. E pluribus unum is inscribed on the Great Seal's scroll. The motto was added to certain silver coins in 1798, and soon appeared on all of the coins made out of precious metals (gold and silver). In 1834, it was dropped from most of the gold coins to mark the change in the standard fineness of the coins. Never codified by law, E Pluribus Unum was considered a de facto motto of the United States until 1956 when the United States Congress passed an act (H. J. Resolution 396), adopting  In God we trust  as the official motto.
E PLURIBUS UNUM (Out of many, one), motto featured on the Great Seal of the United States. After declaring independence, the Continental Congress appointed Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, and Thomas Jefferson to devise a seal. E Pluribus Unum: Nineteenth-Century Literature and the Constitutional Paradox. Magazine article from: Journal of American Culture (Malden, MA) E Pluribus Unum: NineteenthCentury Literature and the...extended comment on our national motto, E Pluribus Unum (out of many, one), which appears...religious history.
E PLURIBUS UNUM Origin and Meaning of the Motto Carried in the Beak of the Bald Eagle on the Great Seal E pluribus unum is the motto suggested by the committee Congress appointed on July 4, 1776 to design a seal for the United States of America.. The below sketch of their design accompanied a detailed description of their idea for the new nation's official emblem.
E Pluribus Unum refers to the fact that the United States was formed as a cohesive single nation as the result of the thirteen smaller colonies joining together. The motto E Pluribus Unum was first proposed by the U.S. Continental Congress in 1782, for use on the Great Seal of the United States. 
E Pluribus Unum included in the Great Seal of the United States, being one of the nation's mottos at the time of the seal's creation. Never codified by law, E Pluribus Unum was considered a de facto motto of the United States until 1956 when the United States Congress passed an act (H. J. Resolution 396), adopting  In God we trust  as the official motto.
Translating E PLURIBUS UNUM Pluribus is related to the English word: plural.. Unum is related to the English word: unit.. E Pluribus Unum describes an action: Many uniting into one. An accurate translation of the motto is From Many, One or Out of Many, One  a phrase that captures the symbolism on the shield. E pluribus unum is the motto suggested by the committee Congress appointed on July 4, 1776 to design a seal for the United States of America.. The below sketch of their design accompanied a detailed description of their idea for the new nation's official emblem.