As the name suggests, the Baby Moon daffodil also known as Baby Moon Narcissus-is a diminutive flower that produces nickel to quarter-sized bright yellow flowers. Introduced in 1958, the Baby Moon daffodil remains a classic yellow Jonquilla. Plant Baby Moon daffodil bulbs in the fall for mid-spring bloom. 1  Fast Facts. Planting Daffodil Bulbs-How to Plant Daffodil Bulbs. Daffodil bulbs are a snap to plant and require only minimum effort and time. They are a fall planted bulb that will provide years of beautiful mid-spring bloom. You can comfortably plant daffodil bulbs from September through December.
Modern daffodil cultivars are important ornamental crops; more daffodils are planted than any other perennial ornamental plant. Britain is the major grower of daffodils for both flowers and bulbs, which are also grown commercially in the Netherlands, United States, Canada, New Zealand and Australia. The Latin name for daffodil is thought to have been inspired by Narcissus, who was a figure in Greek mythology said to have fallen in love with his reflection in a pool of water. The nodding head of the daffodil is said to represent Narcissus bending down and gazing at his reflection.
Difference between Daffodils and Narcissus. There is literally no difference between the Daffodils and Narcissus. The two words are synonymous. Narcissus is the Latin or botanical name for those commonly called daffodils and Daffodil is the common name for all members of the genus Narcissus. Often the trumpet is in a contrasting color from the background. The name Daffodils includes the cluster-flowered yellow Jonquils and the White Narcissi, as well as the include as the more common trumpet shaped flowers (right), members of the genus Narcissus.
Because of their diminutive features, Miniature Daffodils can be overwhelmed if planted next to large flowers or bushes. However, they are very good choices for rock gardens, for containers (such as window boxes), and are excellent for indoor forcing. There is also no official, agreed-upon maximum height for a Miniature Daffodil. I personally use the following rule: if it typically grows to 10 (25 cm) or less, it's a Miniature (athough many are much shorter).
Narcissus. Narcissus is the proper name for the daffodil family. It is so called because its bulb houses a toxic substance – the Greek word ‘narcissus’ means ‘numbness’, so it is a reference to its narcotic nature. Description. 
Various common names including daffodil, daffadowndilly, narcissus, and jonquil are used to describe all or some members of the genus. Narcissus has conspicuous flowers with six petal-like tepals surmounted by a cup-or trumpet-shaped corona. The name daffodil is derived from affodell, a variant of asphodel. The narcissus was frequently, referred to as the asphodel, (see Antiquity). Asphodel in turn appears to come from the Greek asphodelos (Greek: ἀσφόδελος).
Shop for Narcissus / Daffodils. Symbolizing rebirth and new beginnings, the daffodil is virtually synonymous with spring. Though their botanic name is narcissus, daffodils are sometimes called jonquils, and in England, because of their long association with Lent, they're known as the Lent Lily.. Lore connecting the daffodil to not only a sign of winter's end but a lucky emblem of future prosperity is found throughout the world.
For example, take a look at this photo of a blossom from the variety Quince: Miniature Daffodils are diminutive versions of standard daffodils. They have been selected or cultivated from existing species or varieties, and retain the basic form, blooming habits, colours, and the hardiness of these standard varieties. There is also no official, agreed-upon maximum height for a Miniature Daffodil. I personally use the following rule: if it typically grows to 10 (25 cm) or less, it's a Miniature (athough many are much shorter).