Shares & Saves. Save. Also called the pupa, the chrysalis is the third stage in the life cycle of a butterfly. It is during this stage that the caterpillar transforms into an adult, developing characteristics such as legs and wings. Beginnings. When a butterfly egg hatches, a ravenous caterpillar emerges and eats as much as it can. When it reaches full size, the caterpillar sticks itself to the underside of a leaf with a small tab of silk and forms a hard layer of skin called a chrysalis.
A cocoon, or chrysalis, is a protective covering woven by an insect when it is in its pupal stage. This covering is necessary to protect the defenseless pupa while it hibernates and undergoes its transformation in a process called metamorphosis. Caterpillars spin cocoons during their pupal stage by secreting silk or a silk-like substance (depending on the type of insect) and then wrapping it around their bodies in a figure-eight motion.
A moth pupa is called a pupa. Some species of moth caterpillars make a cocoon covering and change into a pupa inside the cocoon. The cocoon is simply a covering, like a sleeping bag. Other species of moths fold over leaves and make their pupa in the leaves. Still other species of moth caterpillars go into the leaves or dirt and make thier pupae in leaf matter or soil.Butterfly caterpillars sometimes hang in a 'J' or a ')' shape and change into a chrysalis.
What is a chrysalis made of? The chrysalis is simply the word for the butterfly during the pupa stage. The outside of the chrysalis is the exoskeleton, or skin, of the pupa. When it becomes time for the larva (caterpillar) to become a chrysalis, the caterpillar spins a silk button from which it hangs. The larva forms its body in a J-shape and the skin splits and falls away
The chrysalis is a vital and necessary part of each stage of the process that transforms a caterpillar to a butterfly. 
Butterflies hatch from a chrysalis, a life stage made of a hardened protein. A cocoon is spun from silk and surrounds the pupa of many moths. 
The textile that is made from the cocoons of caterpillars that eat  the leaves of the mulberry tree is silk. It takes about 35 days of  eating mulberry leaves before the cat … erpillar will spin a cocoon of  silk. Caterpillars are the larvae of either butterflies or moths. The pupa of a butterfly is called a chrysalis, while the pupa of a moth is called a cocoon. So some caterpill … ars make cocoons