1 The way I cook it is to put a generous mix of water and white wine in the bottom of my roasting pan, put the pork knuckle on a rack (with the skin oiled and salted...no cutting/slicing), then slow roast for about 1-2 hours (depending on size and quantity of the knuckles). Get it right and there’ll be a fight for the last piece. Get it wrong and you’ll have a table of disappointed faces. A classic roast pork just isn’t the same without it. That and the apple sauce. Crackling sounds simple enough, score the fat on top of the meat, rub salt and oil into it and wack it into a hot oven.
Against common beliefs that pork skin needs to be dried out before getting into the oven to get the perfect crackling-watch this and be convinced otherwise! It's exactly the other way around! Add moisture at first and then start crispen it up. 
Time is what shoulder needs, time and heat and salt. That’s all. This was a lovely piece of pork shoulder with a good layer of skin around it, which is just what you need to get perfect crackling. Pork shoulder needs slow cooking and it will turn into the softest, tenderest piece of meat ever. When the pork comes out of the oven the rind will have crisped and almost bubbled up with flecks of salt crystals embedded into it to make the crackling taste divine. By now the oven will be bouncingly hot so get the pork into a roasting tray and put it into the oven for twenty to thirty minutes.
You will get good crackling from the skin of a pork loin usually, but you might not have enough fat to do the extended slow roast. Follow the first part of the instructions – very hot and high – but reduce the cooking time. When the pork comes out of the oven the rind will have crisped and almost bubbled up with flecks of salt crystals embedded into it to make the crackling taste divine. By now the oven will be bouncingly hot so get the pork into a roasting tray and put it into the oven for twenty to thirty minutes.
Now place the pork in a tin, skin-side up, halve the onion and wedge the two pieces in slightly underneath the meat. Now take about 1 tbsp of crushed salt crystals and sprinkle it evenly over the skin, pressing it in as much as you can. Place the pork on a high shelf in the oven and roast it for 25 minutes. Turn the heat down to 190C/375F/Gas 5, and calculate the total cooking time allowing 35 minutes to the pound, then deduct the initial 25 minutes cooking time. In this case it would be a further 2½ hours. 
1 Mix with 2 tbsp olive oil and rub all over the flesh of the pork. 2  Cover and chill, leaving to marinate for a few hours or overnight. 3  When ready to cook, rub the skin of the joint with plenty of salt and 1 tbsp more olive oil. 4  Sit on a wire rack in a roasting tin and roast at 200C/180C fan/gas 6 for 30 mins. 1 When ready to cook, rub the skin of the joint with plenty of salt and 1 tbsp more olive oil. 2  Sit on a wire rack in a roasting tin and roast at 200C/180C fan/gas 6 for 30 mins. 3  After this time, squeeze the lemons over the skin and turn the heat down to 180C/ 160C fan/gas 4. Roast for a further 2 hrs.
Take out of the oven, take the foil off, and baste the meat with the fat in the bottom of the tray. Carefully lift the pork up and transfer to a chopping board. Spoon all but a couple of tablespoons of fat out (save it for roast potatoes!). Place the pork back on top of everything and return to the stove without the foil to roast for another hour. By this time the meat should be meltingly soft and tender. Carefully move the meat to a serving dish, cover again with tinfoil and leave to rest while you make your gravy.
Temperature. In my view, the perfect temperature for roasting pork to get good crackling is 160˚C. This slow cooking allows the fat to get golden brown and crispy, gently turning the skin into the perfect crackling. You can have a look at my Roast Belly Pork with Cider Cream Sauce to see how I do this. Perfect crackling. It’s very important to put the pork in a cold pan. I’m very partial to a bit of good pork crackling. To my mind, one of the treats when you cook roast pork is the crackling which should always be golden brown in colour and crispy in texture.