How to use Levsin oral. Hyoscyamine is used to treat a variety of stomach/intestinal problems such as cramps, infant colic, and irritable bowel syndrome. It is also used to treat other conditions such as bladder and bowel control problems, cramping pain caused by kidney stones and gallstones, and Parkinson's disease. In addition, it is used to decrease side effects of certain medications (drugs used to treat myasthenia gravis) and insecticides. Take this medication by mouth as prescribed, usually 30-60 minutes before meals, or as directed by your doctor. Use the dropper that comes with this product to measure the dose out carefully. Dosage is based on your medical condition and response to therapy. In young children, the dosage is also based on weight.
Hyoscyamine is used to treat many different stomach and intestinal disorders, including peptic ulcer and irritable bowel syndrome. It is also used to control muscle spasms in the bladder, kidneys, or digestive tract, and to reduce stomach acid. Hyoscyamine is sometimes used to reduce tremors and rigid muscles in people with symptoms of Parkinson's disease.
The medication is also used for bladder spasms, peptic-ulcer disease, diverticulitis, colic, certain heart conditions, Parkinson’s disease, runny nose, excess saliva production, irritable bowel syndrome, cystitis, and pancreatitis. Hyoscyamine reduces the unwanted side effects of some drugs as well. Hyoscyamine works by decreasing acid production in the stomach, slowing down the gut’s movements, and relaxing muscles in other organs, such as the bladder, gallbladder, and kidney. It also decreases secretions of sweat and saliva
USES: Hyoscyamine is used to treat a variety of stomach/intestinal problems such as cramps and irritable bowel syndrome. It is also used to treat other conditions such as bladder and bowel control problems, cramping pain caused by kidney stones and gallstones, and Parkinson's disease. 
Hyoscyamine also reduces the fluid secretions of many organs and glands in the body, such as the stomach, pancreas, lungs, saliva glands, sweat glands, and nasal passages. Hyoscyamine is used to treat many different stomach and intestinal disorders, including peptic ulcer and irritable bowel syndrome. It is also used to control muscle spasms in the bladder, kidneys, or digestive tract, and to reduce stomach acid. Hyoscyamine is sometimes used to reduce tremors and rigid muscles in people with symptoms of Parkinson's disease. Before taking hyoscyamine, tell your doctor if you have heart disease, congestive heart failure, a heart rhythm disorder, high blood pressure, overactive thyroid, or hiatal hernia with gastroesophageal reflux disease.
HYOSCYAMINE (hye oh SYE a meen) is used to treat stomach and bladder problems. This medicine is also used for rhinitis, to reduce some problems caused by Parkinson's disease, and as an antidote for certain drug overdoses. Levsin: Oral solution (0.125mg). Patient Experiences with Levsin. Close. We want to help you stay educated about the medications you are taking. View other. patient's observations and share your own.
Levsin is the brand name of the prescription drug hyoscyamine, which treats symptoms of disorders in your stomach and intestines (known as the gastrointestinal tract). Hyoscyamine reduces the unwanted side effects of some drugs as well. Hyoscyamine works by decreasing acid production in the stomach, slowing down the gut’s movements, and relaxing muscles in other organs, such as the bladder, gallbladder, and kidney.
HYOSCYAMINE is used to treat stomach and bladder problems. It is also used for rhinitis, to reduce some problems caused by Parkinson's disease, and for the treatment of poisoning with drugs that are usually used to treat myasthenia gravis. 
hyoscyamine ER. HYOSCYAMINE is used to treat stomach and bladder problems. This medicine is also used for rhinitis, to reduce some problems caused by Parkinson's disease, and for the treatment of poisoning with drugs that are usually used to treat myasthenia gravis. 
Do not take hyoscyamine if you are allergic to it, or if you have kidney disease, a bladder or intestinal obstruction, severe ulcerative colitis, toxic megacolon, glaucoma, or myasthenia gravis. It is also used to control muscle spasms in the bladder, kidneys, or digestive tract, and to reduce stomach acid. Hyoscyamine is sometimes used to reduce tremors and rigid muscles in people with symptoms of Parkinson's disease.