Report Abuse. Below is its exact location. The Philippine Islands are located within the latitude and longitude of 13° 00 N, 122° 00 E. Philippines are located in the northern hemisphere. It is located in the southeastern coast of Asia. The Philippines is located in the Asian region geographically and politically known as the FAR EAST which denotes East Asian countries like Japan, South Korea, Taiwan as well as Southeast Asian countries like Indonesia, Brunei and Malaysia as well as the Philippines.
Philippine Islands are located within the latitude and longitude of 13° 00 N, 122° 00 E. Philippines are located in the northern hemisphere. It is located in the southeastern coast of Asia. This island nation is accurately surrounded by the Pacific Ocean, and many smaller bodies of water including the Philippine Sea, Celebes Sea, Sula Sea and South China Sea. The capital of Philippines is Manila. The latitude and longitude of Manila, the capital city of Philippines is 14° 35' N, 121º 00 E'.
Find out where is Philippines located. The location map of Philippines below highlights the geographical position of Philippines within Asia on the world map. Philippines location highlighted on the world map.
With a population of about 100 million people, the Philippines is the seventh-most populated country in Asia and the 12th most populated country in the world. An additional 12 million Filipinos live overseas, comprising one of the world's largest diasporas. 
Where is Philippines located on the world map? The given Philippines location map shows that Philippines is located in the western Pacific Ocean which is part of south-east of Asia continent. 
The Philippines are located in both the northern and eastern hemispheres, and are positioned off the southeastern coast of Asia, directly east of Vietnam and northeast of Malaysia. The Philippines is literally surrounded by the Pacific Ocean, and many smaller bodies of water including the Philippine Sea, Celebes Sea, Sula Sea and South China Sea.