Best Answer: ribozyme is from ribonucleic acid enzyme, which is also called rna enzyme or catalytic rna. it is an rna molecule that catalyzes a chemical reaction... The biggest problem is that the cell is producing a large number of RNAs from a huge number of different genes. Obviously when the ribozyme is introduced into the cell, the researcher does not want the ribozyme to cut all the RNA messengers since a large number of genes will be turned off.
A mutant bacterial cell has a defective aminoacyl synthetase that attaches a lysine to tRNAs with the anticodon AAA instead of a phenylalanine. proteins in the cell willl include lysine instead of phenalalaune at amino acid positions specified by the codon UUU. using RNA as a template for protein synthesis instead of translating proteins directly from the DNA iss advantageous for the cell because. RNA acts as an expandable copy of the genetic material, allowing the DNA to serve as a permanent, pristine repository of the genetic material.   .
It is called transcription because there is no change in language; information is encoded in the same way, through the sequence of bases in both DNA and RNA. Transcription is mediated by DNA-dependent, RNA polymerase, an enzyme that builds an RNA molecule using a DNA molecule. We will return to consider the process of transcription and its regulation later when we come to Genomes and Genes (reading 26) and Regulatory networks (reading 27). When the ribosome reaches the end of the region of the RNA that encodes the polypeptide (defined by a stop codon), it is released, disassembles and is ready to start another cycle. Key translation accessory factors are the transfer RNAs or tRNA. These are small, L-shaped RNAs.
A ribozyme (from ribonucleic acid enzyme, also called RNA enzyme or catalytic RNA) is an RNA molecule that catalyzes a chemical reaction. Many natural ribozymes catalyze either their own cleavage or the cleavage of other RNAs, but they have also been found to catalyze the aminotransferase activity of the ribosome. The biggest problem is that the cell is producing a large number of RNAs from a huge number of different genes. Obviously when the ribozyme is introduced into the cell, the researcher does not want the ribozyme to cut all the RNA messengers since a large number of genes will be turned off.
These tRNA molecules have the corresponding amino acid attached, which the ribosome (ribozyme) can then use to add to the growing polypeptide chain. The process is highly specific to avoid errors. The process of producing a peptide by adding amino acids according  to the sequence specified in the mRNA is called translation. This  process occurs in the cytoplasm, typic … ally at the rough endoplasmic  reticulum.
The consequence of this for the cell will be that. A) none of the proteins in the cell will contain phenylalanine. B) proteins in the cell will include lysine instead of phenylalanine at amino acid positions specified by the codon UUU. B) It binds to the stop codon in the A site in place of a tRNA. C) It releases the amino acid from its tRNA to allow the amino acid to form a peptide bond. D) It supplies a source of energy for termination of translation. E) It releases the ribosome from the ER to allow polypeptides into the cytosol.
Some household products use enzymes to speed up chemical reactions: enzymes in biological washing powders break down protein, starch or fat stains on clothes, and enzymes in meat tenderizer break down proteins into smaller molecules, making the meat easier to chew. Enzymes are used in the chemical industry and other industrial applications when extremely specific catalysts are required. Enzymes in general are limited in the number of reactions they have evolved to catalyze and also by their lack of stability in organic solvents and at high temperatures.
An active ribosome is composed of a small and a large ribosomal subunit. The complete ribosome has a molecular weight of ~3 x 106 daltons. A evolutionarily conserved catalytic rRNA, a ribozyme, lies at the heart of the ribosome-it catalyzes the addition of amino acids to the growing polypeptide chain. The cytoplasm of cells is packed with ribosomes. In a rapidly growing bacterial cell, approximately 25% of the total cell mass is ribosomes. When the ribosome reaches the end of the region of the RNA that encodes the polypeptide (defined by a stop codon), it is released, disassembles and is ready to start another cycle. Key translation accessory factors are the transfer RNAs or tRNA. These are small, L-shaped RNAs.
Enzymes /ˈɛnzaɪmz/ are macromolecular biological catalysts. Enzymes accelerate, or catalyze, chemical reactions. The molecules at the beginning of the process are called substrates and the enzyme converts these into different molecules, called products. Enzymes are used in the chemical industry and other industrial applications when extremely specific catalysts are required. Enzymes in general are limited in the number of reactions they have evolved to catalyze and also by their lack of stability in organic solvents and at high temperatures.
This problem of specificity is something that has to be considered very carefully prior to introducing the ribozyme into the cell otherwise anything that then happens in the cell will be too difficult to interpret. The biggest problem is that the cell is producing a large number of RNAs from a huge number of different genes. Obviously when the ribozyme is introduced into the cell, the researcher does not want the ribozyme to cut all the RNA messengers since a large number of genes will be turned off.