Aldosterone affects sodium, potassium, total fluid in the body, and blood pressure. Aldosterone causes the kidneys to hold onto more sodium, which leads to more water staying in the body. The more fluid the body holds onto, the higher the blood pressure may become. Potassium may decrease as the amount of aldosterone increases. Overall, the hormone helps to increase the reabsorption of water and ions in the kidneys to maintain sufficient blood volume levels, stabilizing the blood pressure.
The function of renin affects kidney filtration balances. An increase in renin levels may result in increased thirst. Some anti-hypertensive drugs are based on a renin-angiotensin system. Some research suggests that the long-term use of anti-hypertensive drugs could actually increase the body's production of renin. The function of renin is to restore normal blood pressure, thereby increasing filtration rates of water and solutes in the kidney tubules, so that filtration proceeds in proper balance.
Aldosterone belongs to a class of hormones called mineral corticoids, also produced by the adrenal glands. Aldosterone helps maintain blood pressure (BP) and water and salt balance in the body by helping the kidneys retain sodium and excrete potassium. Overall, the hormone helps to increase the reabsorption of water and ions in the kidneys to maintain sufficient blood volume levels, stabilizing the blood pressure.
The aldosterone hormone is a hormone produced by the adrenal gland. The hormone acts mainly in the functional unit of the kidneys to aid in the conservation of sodium, secretion of potassium, water retention and to stabilize blood pressure. Overall, the hormone helps to increase the reabsorption of water and ions in the kidneys to maintain sufficient blood volume levels, stabilizing the blood pressure.
Aldosterone and Renin-Angiotensin system of kidney function. The renin-angiotensin system will not only assist to increase filtration of the glomerular, but can also affect the adrenal secretion of aldosterone, which will help to bring the low systemic blood pressure up to normal. Aldosterone is secreted by the adrenal glands when the level of the potassium in the blood is increased, as well as the self-regulatory action of the kidneys by means of the renin-angiotensin system.
There are two conditions where there are low aldosterone levels. In Addison's disease, there is a general loss of adrenal function resulting in low blood pressure, lethargy and an increase in potassium levels in the blood (see the article on Addison's disease for further information). Aldosterone causes an increase in salt and water reabsorption into the bloodstream from the kidney thereby increasing the blood volume, restoring salt levels and blood pressure.
Aldosterone is a steroid hormone. Its main role is to regulate salt and water in the body, thus having an effect on blood pressure. Alternative names for aldosterone Electrocortin, 11β,21-dihydroxy-3,20-dioxopregn-4-en-18-al. Aldosterone causes an increase in salt and water reabsorption into the bloodstream from the kidney thereby increasing the blood volume, restoring salt levels and
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Aldosterone is a steroid hormone (mineralocorticoid family) produced by the outer section (zona glomerulosa) of the adrenal cortex in the adrenal gland. 
An aldosterone test measures the level of aldosterone (a hormone made by the adrenal glands), in the blood. Aldosterone helps regulate sodium and potassium levels in the body. An aldosterone test is done to: 1  Measure the amount of aldosterone released into the body by the adrenal glands. 2  Check for a tumor in the adrenal glands. 3  Find the cause of high blood pressure or low blood potassium levels.