Photosynthesis takes place inside plant cells in small things called chloroplasts. Chloroplasts (mostly found in the mesophyll layer) contain a green substance called chlorophyll. Below are the other parts of the cell that work with the chloroplast to make photosynthesis happen. Structure of a mesophyll cell. 
Plants use photosynthesis to create their own food and then use cellular respiration to turn their food into energy (ATP!). Photosynthetic cells are found mainly in the leaves of plants and each cell may have thousands of chloroplasts. QUESTIONS: 1. The chloroplast allows plants to harvest energy from sunlight to carry on a process known as Photosynthesis. Specialized pigments in the chloroplast (including the common green pigment chlorophyll) absorb sunlight and use this energy to combine carbon dioxide and water and make GLUCOSE and OXYGEN.
Photosynthetic cells contain special pigments that absorb light energy. Different pigments respond to different wavelengths of visible light. Chlorophyll, the primary pigment used in photosynthesis, reflects green light and absorbs red and blue light most strongly. Photosynthesis consists of both light-dependent reactions and light-independent reactions. In plants, the so-called light reactions occur within the chloroplast thylakoids, where the aforementioned chlorophyll pigments reside.
Any cell in a plant that has a chloroplast can unite to form a photosynthesis. The plant cell should also have in addition to it a cell wall, a large vacuole. The chloroplast … has chlorophyll which help in the process of photosynthesis. 1 person found this useful. The function of the photosynthetic tissue is to synthesized food for organisms, so animal are heterotrophic (which cannot prepare their own food). That's why photosynthetic ti … ssue is not found in animal. And due to contraction and relaxation of muscle tissue locomotion is possible
Most living things depend on photosynthetic cells to manufacture the complex organic molecules they require as a source of energy. Photosynthetic cells are quite diverse and include cells found in green plants, phytoplankton, and cyanobacteria. Photosynthesis consists of both light-dependent reactions and light-independent reactions. In plants, the so-called light reactions occur within the chloroplast thylakoids, where the aforementioned chlorophyll pigments reside.
Plant cells have certain distinguishing features, including chloroplasts, cell walls, and intracellular vacuoles. Photosynthesis takes place in chloroplasts; cell walls allow plants to have strong, upright structures; and vacuoles help regulate how cells handle water and storage of other molecules. eBooks. Besides the presence of chloroplasts, another major difference between plant and animal cells is the presence of a cell wall. The cell wall surrounds the plasma membrane of plant cells and provides tensile strength and protection against mechanical and osmotic stress.
This process, called photosynthesis, is essential to the global carbon cycle and organisms that conduct photosynthesis represent the lowest level in most food chains (Figure 1). Figure 1: Photosynthetic plants synthesize carbon-based energy molecules from the energy in sunlight. Photosynthesis consists of both light-dependent reactions and light-independent reactions. In plants, the so-called light reactions occur within the chloroplast thylakoids, where the aforementioned chlorophyll pigments reside.