Logical Framework, Logical Framework Approach (LFA), log frame. ‘Logical Framework’, or ‘logframe’, describes both a general approach to project or programme planning, monitoring and evaluation, and – in the form of a ‘logframe matrix’ – a discrete planning and monitoring tool for projects and programmes. As a methodology, the ‘Logical Framework Approach’ (LFA) is a systematic, visual approach to designing, executing and assessing projects which encourages users to consider the relationships between available resources, planned activities, and desired changes or results.
The Logical Framework Approach (LFA) is a management tool mainly used for designing, monitoring, and evaluating international development projects. Variations of this tool are known as Goal Oriented Project Planning (GOPP) or Objectives Oriented Project Planning (OOPP) . Given a well constructed logical framework, an informed skeptic and a project advocate should be able to agree on exactly what the project attempts to accomplish, and how likely it is to succeed—in terms of programmatic (goal-level) as well as project (purpose-level) objective.
Home. A Logframe is another name for Logical Framework, a planning tool consisting of a matrix which provides an overview of a project’s goal, activities and anticipated results. It provides a structure to help specify the components of a project and its activities and for relating them to one another. A Logical Framework (or LogFrame) consists of a matrix with four columns and four or more rows which summarize the key elements of the project plan including: 1  The project's hierarchy of objectives. 2  The GOAL / OVERALL OBJECTIVE/ DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE. 3  The PURPOSE / IMMEDIATE OBJECTIVE. 4  The OUTPUTS. 5  The ACTIVITIES.
(Follow this link for a detailed explanation of the Logical Framework document-often referred to as the Project Matrix). Logical Framework Approach, ZOPP, and OOPP-What and Why. The two terms Logical Framework (LF or Logframe) and the Logical Framework Approach (LFA) are sometimes confused. We might note that one common misuse of the logframe is to design the project first and attempt to fill in the logical framework matrix as an after thought. This defeats the whole purpose of the logical framework and the design methodology.
The Logical Framework. The logical framework or logframe is a project management tool, that can be used to design, implement, monitor and evaluate a project. The logframe presents a wealth of information related to your project in a 4x4 matrix. 
A Logical Framework (or LogFrame) consists of a matrix with four columns and four or more rows which summarize the key elements of the project plan including: 1  The project's hierarchy of objectives. 2  The first column captures the project’s development pathway or intervention logic. A Logical Framework (or LogFrame) consists of a matrix with four columns and four or more rows which summarize the key elements of the project plan including: 1  The project's hierarchy of objectives. 2  The GOAL / OVERALL OBJECTIVE/ DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE. 3  The PURPOSE / IMMEDIATE OBJECTIVE. 4  The OUTPUTS. 5  The ACTIVITIES.
The logframe matrix is a strategic project management tool that helps in developing a crisp summary of the project-enlisting logical interventions. Here is an article, supported with an example, that will help you develop a logframe matrix for your project. Preparing a Logframe Matrix. Here is more on the information required for making the logical framework matrix: Narrative Summary: This column is meant for a short descriptive summary of the project. 1  Goal/Objective: A statement or two about the main goal or objective that the project intends to achieve.
The Logical Framework Approach (LFA) is a highly effective strategic planning and project management methodology with wide application. It is particularly valuable for water management and sanitation projects, especially because water ― the resource base ― has diverse and competing uses. The Logical Framework Approach (LFA) is an analytical process and set of tools used to support project planning and management.
The LogFrame is a document, the Logical Framework Approach is a project design methodology. Note: For most purposes the three terms; Logical Framework Approach, ZOPP and OOPP are terms for the same project design methodology or process. We might note that one common misuse of the logframe is to design the project first and attempt to fill in the logical framework matrix as an after thought. This defeats the whole purpose of the logical framework and the