Other Subfields. There are many other subfields of philosophy, and it is in the nature of philosophy as critical inquiry to develop new subfields when new directions in the quest for knowledge, or in any other area of human activity, raise new intellectual problems. Philosophy broadens the range of things one can understand and enjoy. It can give one self-knowledge, foresight, and a sense of direction in life. It can provide, to one's reading and conversation, special pleasures of insight.
Here as a set of concluding remarks, I offer a view of what Philosophy itself is and what it isn't. We'll start with what it isn't and attempt to dispel some common misunderstandings and misuses of the word. Philosophy is not a Way of Life . Philosophy is not a picking and choosing what body of thought one would like to call one's own or would like to believe in; a choice based upon personal preferences or feelings. Philosophy is a pursuit. One can choose to be philosophical. One can choose to be a philosopher.
While Siduri's words are over 4,000 years old we can still today take her philosophies to heart and try to live with more understanding, joy and appreciation of family in our lives. Although ancient, good life philosophies are eternal, and Siduri’s teachings can help guide us to happier lives today. Interestingly, in a later version of the Epic of Gilgamesh (referred to as the Akkadian version) Siduri’s life philosophy was removed from the Epic and much of her original role was given to Utnapishtim, an immortal wise old man.
Support your thesis. Don't just state your own position; make it the conclusion of a line of reasoning. Claim only what you can prove (or are, at least, prepared to defend), and support it with evidence and argument. Philosophy is not just a list of true opinions, but the reasoned effort to provide justification. In this document, I've gathered some information that may be of assistance to you as you proceed through a formal course of study. You may also wish to consult the Teaching and Studying Resources page of Episteme Links and the Dictionary of Philosophical Terms and Names.
Philosophy is an activity of thought. Philosophy is a particular unique type of thought or style of thinking. Philosophy is not to be confused with its product. What a philosopher provides is a body of philosophic thought NOT a Philosophy. A philosopher enacts a Philosophy, a quest after wisdom. Philosophy is not a picking and choosing what body of thought one would like to call one's own or would like to believe in; a choice based upon personal preferences or feelings. Philosophy is a pursuit. One can choose to be philosophical. One can choose to be a philosopher.
A trusted non-profit guide to mental health and well-being. Our professional team is here to help you and your family find answers you can trust that will strengthen your emotional heath, improve your relationships, and help you take charge of your life. Start by exploring Five Tips for Greater Health and Happiness.
Guide to the Study of Philosophy. Welcome to the study of philosophy; I hope that you will enjoy your pursuit of the discipline and find it rewarding in many ways. In this document, I've gathered some information that may be of assistance to you as you proceed through a formal course of study. You may also wish to consult the Teaching and Studying Resources page of Episteme Links and the Dictionary of Philosophical Terms and Names.
Therefore, at most, Siduri promoted Responsible Hedonism and should we wish to follow Siduri's advice we should bear this distinction in mind. Indeed, the Sidurian concept of joy, or Responsible Hedonism, can help guide us towards a happier life as long as we do not fall into the trap of irresponsibility! 3) Family. Interestingly, in a later version of the Epic of Gilgamesh (referred to as the Akkadian version) Siduri’s life philosophy was removed from the Epic and much of her original role was given to Utnapishtim, an immortal wise old man.
Understanding Other Disciplines. Philosophy is indispensable for this. Many important questions about a discipline, such as the nature of its concepts and its relation to other disciplines, do not belong to that discipline, are not usually pursued in it, and are philosophical in nature. Philosophy broadens the range of things one can understand and enjoy. It can give one self-knowledge, foresight, and a sense of direction in life. It can provide, to one's reading and conversation, special pleasures of insight.
The broadest subfields of philosophy are most commonly taken to be logic, ethics, metaphysics, epistemology and the history of philosophy. Here is a brief sketch of each. Logic is concerned to provide sound methods for distinguishing good from bad reasoning. Philosophy broadens the range of things one can understand and enjoy. It can give one self-knowledge, foresight, and a sense of direction in life. It can provide, to one's reading and conversation, special pleasures of insight.