Background. The term volvulus is derived from the Latin word volvere (“to twist”). A colonic volvulus occurs when a part of the colon twists on its mesentery, resulting in acute, subacute, or chronic colonic obstruction. The main types of colonic volvulus are sigmoid volvulus and cecal volvulus
Volvulus is a twisting of the intestine at least 180 degrees on itself. It's marked by sudden onset of severe abdominal pain. Volvulus results in blood vessel compression and causes obstruction both proximal and distal to the twisted loop. Volvulus occurs in a bowel segment long enough to twist. A volvulus is a condition in which the bowel becomes twisted. This twisting causes obstruction of the intestine, and also often cuts off the blood supply to the intestine. The resulting death of some or all of the intestine may in turn cause the person to die
Colonic volvulus is a condition whereby the twisting of a movable segment of the bowel around its mesenteric axis results in a partial or complete colonic obstruction, possible injury to the bowel, and potential tissue death due to a lack of oxygen-rich blood from the compromised state of the blood supply. Colonic volvulus is also known as twisted colon, bowel torsion, torsion of the ascending colon, closed-loop obstruction of the ascending colon and cecum, axial torsion, cecal bascule, cecal volvulus, sigmoid volvulus, or transverse volvulus. There are generally three types of colonic volvulus, or twisted colon.
A volvulus is a problem that can occur after birth as a result of intestinal malrotation. The intestine becomes twisted, causing an intestinal blockage. This twisting can also cut off the blood flow to the intestine, and the intestine can be damaged. Malrotation of the intestines is not usually evident until the intestine becomes twisted (volvulus) or obstructed by Ladd's bands and symptoms are present. A volvulus is considered a life-threatening problem, because the intestine can die when it is twisted and does not have adequate blood supply.
The term volvulus has its roots from medieval Latin volvere; which means 'to roll'. A volvulus is a subtype of malrotation, in which a loop of bowel is twisted about a focal point along the mesentery attached to the intestinal tract, that may result in a bowel obstruction. A volvulus is a twisting or axial rotation of a portion of bowel about its mesentery. Sigmoid volvulus is the most-common form of volvulus of the gastrointestinal tract. and is responsible for 8% of all intestinal obstructions. Sigmoid volvulus is particularly common in elderly persons and constipated patients. Patients experience abdominal pain, distension, and absolute constipation.
Volvulus: Abnormal twisting of a portion of the gastrointestinal tract, usually the intestine, which can impair blood flow. Volvulus can lead to gangrene and death of the involved segment of the. gastrointestinal tract, intestinal obstruction, perforation of the intestine, and peritonitis. Malrotation of the bowel during fetal development can predispose one to a volvulus, which often has a sudden onset. The symptoms and signs of a volvulus may include abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, and blood in the stool. The treatment is surgery to free the obstruction and ensure normal blood flow to the bowel. Volvulus is a surgical emergency
Causes. A volvulus is a condition in which the bowel becomes twisted. This twisting causes obstruction of the intestine, and also often cuts off the blood supply to the intestine. The resulting death of some or all of the intestine may in turn cause the person to die
The gastric dilatation is one part of the condition and the volvulus or torsion is the second part. In bloat (dilatation), due to a number of different and sometimes unknown reasons, the stomach fills up with air and puts pressure on the other organs and diaphragm. 