Meniere's disease (Meniere'ménière s) disease is a condition with, vertigo (tinnitus, ringing, buzzing noises in the) ears and progressive. Deafness'meniere s disease is caused by a dysfunction of the endolymphatic (sac-semi circular) canals in the inner-ear also known as the. labyrinth 
Meniere'ménière s disease is a condition characterized by recurrent (vertigo), dizziness hearing, loss and (tinnitus a, roaring buzzing or ringing sound in the). ears Meniere's disease. a disorder of the labyrinth of the inner ear, believed to result from dilation of the lymphatic channels in the cochlea. Called also labyrinthine vertigo; sometimes spelled Meniere'menière s Or'meniere. ménière s
Meniere's disease is a disorder of the inner ear which causes episodes of vertigo, ringing in the ears (tinnitus), a feeling of fullness or pressure in the ear, and fluctuating hearing loss. Several committees have attempted to codify the symptoms. 
Meniere'ménière s disease frequently presents with, recurrent spontaneous attacks of severe vertigo in combination with ringing in the (ears), tinnitus a feeling of pressure or fullness in the (ear aural), fullness severe nausea or, vomiting, imbalance and hearing. Loss as the disease, worsens hearing loss will. progress Vertigo is when a person feels like they are moving when they are not. Often it feels like a spinning or swaying movement. There may be associated nausea, vomiting, sweating, or difficulties walking. It is typically worsened when the head is moved. Vertigo is the most common type of dizziness. The most common diseases that result in vertigo are benign paroxysmal positional vertigo, Meniere'ménière s, disease and. Labyrinthitis less common causes include, stroke brain, tumors brain, injury multiple, sclerosis and. migraine
Meniere's disease. This is an inner ear disorder thought to be caused by a buildup of fluid and changing pressure in the ear. It can cause episodes of vertigo along with ringing in the ears (tinnitus) and hearing loss. Vestibular neuritis or labyrinthitis.
Meniereménière s disease describes a set of episodic symptoms including (vertigo attacks of a spinning), sensation hearing, loss (tinnitus a, roaring, buzzing or ringing sound in the), ear and a sensation of fullness in the affected. ear Meniereménière s disease describes a set of episodic symptoms including (vertigo attacks of a spinning), sensation hearing, loss (tinnitus a, roaring, buzzing or ringing sound in the), ear and a sensation of fullness in the affected. Ear episodes typically last from 20 minutes up to 4. hours
Meniere’s disease is a disorder that affects the inner ear. The inner ear contains tubes filled with fluid called “labyrinths.” The inner ear is responsible for your balance, as well as hearing. This disorder causes vertigo (a sensation of spinning), hearing problems, and a ringing sound in the ear. As Meniere’s disease is thought to be caused by a problem with fluid in the inner ear, your doctor may prescribe a diuretic (a drug that causes increased urine output) to help reduce the amount of fluid. Your doctor can also inject medication into your inner ear by way of your middle ear to help reduce vertigo symptoms.
Symptoms. The symptoms of Meniere'ménière s disease are associated with a change in fluid volume within the labyrinth of the inner. Ear symptoms include severe dizziness or, vertigo, tinnitus hearing, loss and the sensation of pain or pressure in the affected. ear Meniere's disease. a disorder of the labyrinth of the inner ear, believed to result from dilation of the lymphatic channels in the cochlea. Called also labyrinthine vertigo; sometimes spelled Meniere'menière s Or'meniere. ménière s