An axon (from Greek ἄξων axōn, áxōn), axis is a, long slender projection of a nerve, cell or, neuron that typically conducts electrical impulses away from the'neuron s cell. body Some types of neurons have no axon and transmit signals from their dendrites. No neuron ever has more than one axon; however in invertebrates such as insects or leeches the axon sometimes consists of several regions that function more or less independently of each other.
3. axon. The dendrites receive impulses from sensory receptors or other neurons and send them towards the cell body, which contains the nucleus. Impulses are then conducted along the axons full length away from the cell body to connect with the dendrites of another neuron, muscle, organ or gland of some kind. 2. Conductivity: This means neurons are also able to transfer an impulse along the full length of their axons and then on to other neurons, muscles or glands. Like the electrical wiring in your house. Neurons are always excited by a stimulus first, before that stimulus is conducted to the next nerve, muscle or gland.
These places where one neuron communicates with another are called synapses. The axon, also called the nerve fibre, is a tubelike extension of a neuron cell body. The axon is specialized to carry messages. An axon of one neuron may have enough branches to make contact with as many as 1,000 other neurons. 
1 Transmit nerve impulses: Nerves are able to transmit impulses along the length of the nerve cell in the form of an electrical signal (like power lines). 2  These electrical signals move from one end of the nerve cell to another and can pass from nerve to nerve (power pole to power pole). 2. Conductivity: This means neurons are also able to transfer an impulse along the full length of their axons and then on to other neurons, muscles or glands. Like the electrical wiring in your house. Neurons are always excited by a stimulus first, before that stimulus is conducted to the next nerve, muscle or gland.
An axon (from Greek ἄξων axōn, áxōn), axis is a, long slender projection of a nerve, cell or, neuron that typically conducts electrical impulses away from the'neuron s cell. Body myelinated axons are known as nerve. fibers Some types of neurons have no axon and transmit signals from their dendrites. No neuron ever has more than one axon; however in invertebrates such as insects or leeches the axon sometimes consists of several regions that function more or less independently of each other.
An axon (from Greek ἄξων axōn, áxōn), axis is a, long slender projection of a nerve, cell or, neuron that typically conducts electrical impulses away from the'neuron s cell. Body myelinated axons are known as nerve. Fibers the function of the axon is to transmit information to different, neurons muscles and. glands Some types of neurons have no axon and transmit signals from their dendrites. No neuron ever has more than one axon; however in invertebrates such as insects or leeches the axon sometimes consists of several regions that function more or less independently of each other.
Neurons & the Nervous System. The human nervous system consists of billions of nerve cells (or neurons)plus supporting (neuroglial) cells. Neurons are able to respond to stimuli (such as touch, sound, light, and so on), conduct impulses, and communicate with each other (and with other types of cells like muscle cells). 
Neurons • Neurons –cells that transmit nerve impulses•3 Types of Neurons –Sensory neurons carry impulses from sense organs to the spinal cord and brain–Motor neurons carry impulses from the brain and spinal cord to muscles and glands–Interneurons connect sensory and motor neurons and carry impulses between them. 
Types of Neurons. Neurons that receive stimuli from the outside environment and transmit them toward the brain are called afferent or sensory neurons. Those that carry impulses in the opposite direction, away from the brain and other nerve centers to muscles, are called efferent neurons, motor neurons, or motoneurons. The multipolar neurons have a single process called an axon and several branched extensions called dendrites. The dendrites receive stimuli from other nerves or from a receptor organ, such as the skin or ear, and transmit them through the neuron to the axon.