Depends on whether you're flying, boating or swimming.   Answer   In a modern day commercial jet, it will take anywhere from 4 hours and 20 minutes to 5 hours and … 45 minutes depending on departure point (it's further from LAX to HNL than it is from SFO to HNL) and also the winds that are encountered. Is hawaii 3 hours ahead of california? No. California is ahead of Hawaii by 2 hours No, California (UTC-8/UTC-7) is 3 hours ahead of Hawaii (UTC-10) from the 2nd Sunday of March to the 1st Sunday of November and … 2 hours ahead during the rest of the year.
A t … ypical flight from San Francisco to Honolulu, for instance, is 5 hours and 20 minutes, and Los Angeles flights generally run a little longer, in the 5 hour and 35 minute range. All flights between the mainland and Hawaii are affected by traffic, weather, and winds. Is hawaii 3 hours ahead of california? No. California is ahead of Hawaii by 2 hours No, California (UTC-8/UTC-7) is 3 hours ahead of Hawaii (UTC-10) from the 2nd Sunday of March to the 1st Sunday of November and … 2 hours ahead during the rest of the year.
American Airlines, Delta Air Lines and United Airlines features service to Honolulu, Kahului, Kona and Lihue, while Hawaiian Airlines and Continental Airlines fly to only Honolulu. Flight time from Los Angeles is five hours to Kahului and Kona, 5 hours, 10 minutes to Honolulu and 5 hours, 15 minutes to Lihue. In addition, United Airlines offers flights from San Francisco to Kona, Lihue, and Maui, all of which take between 4 hours, 40 minutes and five hours.
Answer   In a modern day commercial jet, it will take anywhere from 4 hours and 20 minutes to 5 hours and … 45 minutes depending on departure point (it's further from LAX to HNL than it is from SFO to HNL) and also the winds that are encountered. It would take approximately 6 hours and 52 minutes to fly from  Denver, CO to Hawaii. The actual flight distance is 3,335 miles or  5,367 km
Flying time from California to Hawaii. The total flight duration from California to Hawaii is 5 hours, 30 minutes. This assumes an average flight speed for a commercial airliner of 500 mph, which is equivalent to 805 km/h or 434 knots. It also adds an extra 30 minutes for take-off and landing. Your exact time may vary depending on wind speeds. The calculation of flight time is based on the straight line flight distance from California to Hawaii (as the crow flies), which is about 2,498 miles or 4 021 kilometers. Your trip begins in the state of California.
Flying time from Los Angeles, CA to Honolulu, HI. The total flight duration from Los Angeles, CA to Honolulu, HI is 5 hours, 18 minutes. This is the average in-air flight time (wheels up to wheels down on the runway) based on actual flights taken over the past year, including routes like LAX to HNL. The calculation of flight time is based on the straight line flight distance from Los Angeles, CA to Honolulu, HI (as the crow flies), which is about 2,563 miles or 4 125 kilometers. Your trip begins in Los Angeles, California. It ends in Honolulu, Hawaii
The southernmost international airport in California, San Diego International features nonstop flights to two Hawaiian destinations, Honolulu via Hawaiian Airlines and Kahului/Maui via Alaska Airlines. Flights to Honolulu take roughly 5 hours, 15 minutes, while flights to Kahului/Maui takes roughly 5 hours, 5 minutes. Two airports in the greater Los Angeles area offer nonstop flights to the Hawaiian islands, John Wayne airport in Santa Ana and Los Angeles International Airport. In addition, United Airlines offers flights from San Francisco to Kona, Lihue, and Maui, all of which take between 4 hours, 40 minutes and five hours.