The urinary system consists of the bladder, 2 kidneys, 2 ureters, and a urethra. The kidneys a a filtering organ that filters urine and other water soluble by products out of … the blood. Urine then passes through the ureters and into the bladder. When the bladder is full this gives you urge to urinate. 
The urinary system, also known as the renal system, consists of the kidneys, ureters, bladder, and the urethra. Each kidney consists of millions of functional units called nephrons. The urine is then passed through the ureters to the bladder, where it is stored. During urination, the urine is passed from the bladder through the urethra to the outside of the body. 800–2,000 milliliters (mL) of urine are normally produced every day in a healthy human.
Organs of the Urinary System and Their Functions. Kidney Health Care-David Mangusan Jr, PTRP. The urinary system is one of the organ systems of the body. The organs of the urinary system work to help the body get rid of wastes and excess water in the form of urine. Other urinary system organs help transport urine or store urine and release it when it is time. The organs of the urinary system include the two kidneys, two ureters, a urinary bladder and the urethra. Sometimes, the ureter can get infected causing urinary tract infection (UTI) . The Urinary Bladder. The urinary bladder, or simply called bladder, is a hollow muscular organ that sits in the pelvis. It is supported and held in place by ligaments. The ligaments attach to the nearby organs and the pelvic wall.
The urinary system consists of all the organs involved in the formation and release of urine. It includes the kidneys, ureters, bladder and urethra. The kidneys are bean-shaped organs which help the body produce urine to get rid of unwanted waste substances. 
The urinary system consists of the kidneys, ureters, urinary bladder, and urethra. The kidneys form the urine and account for the other functions attributed to the urinary system. The ureters carry the urine away from kidneys to the urinary bladder, which is a temporary reservoir for the urine. The urethra is a tubular structure that carries the urine from the urinary bladder to the outside. 1  Kidneys.
Urea is produced when foods containing protein, such as meat, poultry, and certain vegetables, are broken down in the body. Urea is carried in the bloodstream to the kidneys. Urinary system parts and their functions: 1  Two kidneys-a pair of purplish-brown organs located below the ribs toward the middle of the back. 2  Their function is to: 3  Remove liquid waste from the blood in the form of urine
Name the organs of the urinary system and list their general functions. 20.2 Kidneys 2. Describe the location of the kidneys and the structure of a kidney. 3. List the functions of the kidneys. 4. Trace the pathway of blood flow through the major vessels within a kidney. 5. In doing so, blood homeostasis is maintained, as well. The organs of the urinary system include the kidneys, ureters, urinary bladder, and urethra. See Fig. 20.1 and Fig 20.2, page 773. 20.2 KIDNEYS A. The term renal refers to the kidney. B. Location of Kidneys: Fig 20.1, page 773 - Fig 20.3, page 774.