The Great Barrier Reef is in the Coral Sea, on Australia’s north-eastern coast. It stretches more than 2,300km along the state of Queensland’s coastline, beginning at the tip of Cape York Peninsula in the north and extending down to Bundaberg in the south. The Great Barrier Reef is ideal for Cairns Scuba Diving. Visible from outer space, the Great Barrier Reef is the world’s largest living organism and is a place of remarkable natural beauty and biodiversity. Its physical size, when taken as a single unit, is larger than Switzerland, Holland and the United Kingdom combined.
The Great Barrier Reef is located in the Coral Sea. It is off the northeast coast of Australia's state of Queensland. The reef itself stretches over 1,600 miles (2,600 km) and most of it is between 9 and 93 miles (15 and 150 km) from shore. In places the reef is up to 40 miles (65 km) wide. Much of the Great Barrier Reef is protected by the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. It covers over 1,800 miles (3,000 km) of the reef and runs along Queensland's coast near the town of Bundaberg. Geology of the Great Barrier Reef. The geologic formation of the Great Barrier Reef is long and complex.
The largest reef in the world, the Great Barrier Reef in Australia is longer than 1200 miles (1900 km). That’s longer than the distance between Seattle, WA and Los Angeles, CA! HABITAT: Coral reefs need water that is between 68 - 82°F (20 - 28°C), which is often located along the eastern shores of land. 
Australia is in the southern hemisphere. The Great Barrier Reef in Australia is an immense and very unique coral reef. The continent of Australia, in the southern hemisphere, is about as big as the entire United States. One of Earth's wonders-the Great Barrier Reef-is located off the northeastern side of Australia
Image courtesy of the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority. The Great Barrier Reef is the only living organic collective visible from Earth's orbit. The Great Barrier Reef, off the east coast of Australia, is one of the wonders of the natural world-it is the world's largest coral reef ecosystem. It was declared a World Heritage area in 1981 and added to the National Heritage List in 2007. 
Australia's northeast coastline is where the Great Barrier Reef is located (shadowed in blue on the left). The Great Barrier Reef is a chain of reefs along the coastline ranging from a few miles to over 150 miles from the shore (right). The Great Barrier Reef in Australia is an immense and very unique coral reef. The continent of Australia, in the southern hemisphere, is about as big as the entire United States.
Australia's Great Barrier Reef is considered to be the world's largest reef system. It is made up of over 2,900 individual reefs, 900 islands and covers an area of 133,000 square miles (344,400 sq km). Much of the Great Barrier Reef is protected by the Great Barrier Reef Marine Park. It covers over 1,800 miles (3,000 km) of the reef and runs along Queensland's coast near the town of Bundaberg. Geology of the Great Barrier Reef. The geologic formation of the Great Barrier Reef is long and complex.
Considered one of the great natural wonders of the world, the Great Barrier Reef sits off the northeast coast of Australia. It is located in the Coral Sea and extends for a length of around 2300 km down the coast of the eastern state of Queensland. It is actually a series of reefs and atolls, with its northern end just south of Papua New Guinea. It is the largest coral reef in the world. Australia has almost one-fifth of the world's reef area most of which is located in the Great Barrier Reef. It is the largest structure on earth created by living things, hosts millions of ocean-living creatures, and can be seen from space
The Great Barrier Reef is the world's largest coral reef system composed of over 2,900 individual reefs and 900 islands stretching for over 2,300 kilometres (1,400 mi) over an area of approximately 344,400 square kilometres (133,000 sq mi). The reef is located in the Coral Sea, off the coast of Queensland, Australia. The Great Barrier Reef can be seen from outer space and is the world's biggest single structure made by living organisms. This reef structure is composed of and built by billions of tiny organisms, known as coral polyps.