Early Life. Influential philosopher and physician John Locke, whose writings had a significant impact on Western philosophy, was born on August 29, 1632, in Wrington, a village in the English county of Somerset. His father was a country lawyer and military man who had served as a captain during the English civil war. John Locke, born on August 29, 1632, in Wrington, Somerset, England, went to Westminster school and then Christ Church, University of Oxford. At Oxford he studied medicine, which would play a central role in his life
A Biography of John Locke (1632-1704). John Locke was born on August 29th, 1632 in England and lived to became one of the most influential people in England and, perhaps, one of the most influential people of the 17th century. Before his death on October 28th, 1704 he would earn the title as the Father of liberal philosophy
been assigned to play John Locke and the rest of you have other roles to play. To prepare for the press conference, each group member reads a section of the handout and leads a discussion of the questions following that section. John Locke was born into a Puritan family in Bristol, England in 1632. Locke's father, an attorney, was part of the parliamentary army fighting against the monarchy during the English Civil War. He wanted his son to become a minister, but Locke decided against this and instead studied medicine. 
John Locke is widely known to pioneer the concepts of identity, self and consciousness. He believed the human mind to be a clean slate, born without pre-existing ideas and that knowledge came with experience. John Locke was born to Puritan parents on August 29, 1632 in Wrington, Somerset. He grew up in Pensford, Belluton where the family moved soon after Locke’s birth. In 1647, Locke was sent to London to study in the prestigious Westminister School. After the completion of his schooling, Locke entered Christ Church, Oxford. The Father of Liberalism, John Locke was one of the most significant Enlightenment thinkers as well as a physician and philosopher.
John Locke was a 17th century English philosopher and physician known as the Father of Classical Liberalism. Counted amongst the most influential of Enlightenment thinkers, he was the first to define the self through a continuity of consciousness. John Locke was a 17th century English philosopher and physician known as the Father of Classical Liberalism. This biography of John Locke provides detailed information about his childhood, life, achievements, works & timeline. See the events in life of John Locke in Chronological Order. Quick Facts.
John Locke Biography. John Locke was a 17th century English philosopher and physician known as the Father of Classical Liberalism. This biography of John Locke provides detailed information about his childhood, life, achievements, works & timeline. See the events in life of John Locke in Chronological Order. Quick Facts.
John Locke was born in 1632 in Wrington, a small village in southwestern England. His father, also named John, was a legal clerk and served with the Parliamentary forces in the English Civil War. His family was well-to-do, but not of particularly high social or economic standing. Locke left Oxford for London in 1667 where he became attached to the family of Anthony Ashley Cooper (then Lord Ashley, later the Earl of Shaftesbury). Locke may have played a number of roles in the household, mostly likely serving as tutor to Ashley’s son.
John Locke FRS (/ˈlɒk/ ; 29 August 1632 – 28 October 1704) was an English philosopher and physician regarded as one of the most influential of Enlightenment thinkers and known as the Father of Classical Liberalism . Locke's theory of mind is often cited as the origin of modern conceptions of identity and the self, figuring prominently in the work of later philosophers such as Hume, Rousseau, and Kant. Locke was the first to define the self through a continuity of consciousness.