If the CD/DVD drive of your computer cannot read discs, make sure that the device is listed in Device Manager. To check that the drive is in Device Manager, follow these steps: On the Windows 8 Start screen, type Device manager to open the Search charm, and then select Device Manager from the search results list. Insert a software CD (like a game or business software) into the CD/DVD drive and note what happens. If an AutoPlay window opens, the drive is able to read the disc. The data stored on the disc may still be bad, but an AutoPlay window proves that the drive can read data on the disc.
1 You can experiment and try to open a cd drive. 2  Put a disc in your cd drive and then go to my computer and try to open the cd to see its contents. 3  If you open the wrong cd drive nothing will happen, just close that and open the correct one. Windows XP. 1  Go to the start menu, choose my computer. 2  Find your cd rom icon. 3  Right click on it and choose properties from the menu. 4  The CD drive properties will appear. 5  Go to the Autoplay tab. 6  Press the drop down arrow to see your choices. 7  This is where you can change what happens when you insert a cd.
If you can boot from the disc, but Windows cannot read it, it indicates a problem with your drive or Windows rather than the disc. If you have a faulty drive, replace it. 1  Try the disc in another computer's drive. 2  This will determine only the integrity of the disc, not whether your drive will read it. 3  If your disc still won't work in your drive, but will in another, then continue to the next step. 1 If your disc still won't work in your drive, but will in another, then continue to the next step. 2  However, if the disc doesn't work in any computer, it's probably defective and should be replaced. 3  Try cleaning the drive with a CD/DVD drive cleaning product.
If you really want to have another message rather than can't read (hello Windows, there's nothing to read, it's a blank disk!) you might want to try right clicking on Control Panel, then Default Programs and Set Your Default Programs, then making whichever is your favorite DVD burner software the default. D:\ is the DVD on a Windows 7 laptop. I receive the above message when I put in a blank CD or DVD. I have tried a new DVD drive supplied under a maintenance contract and still receive the same error message.
If your Mac doesn't have a built-in optical drive and you need to use a CD or DVD, you can connect an external drive like the Apple USB SuperDrive. You can also share discs from the optical drive of another Mac, or from a Windows computer that has DVD or CD Sharing Setup installed. 1 On the Mac that doesn't have an optical drive, open a Finder window. 2  Select Remote Disc in the Devices section of the sidebar. 3  You should see the computer that has DVD or CD Sharing enabled. 4  Double-click the computer's icon, then click Connect to see the contents of the CD or DVD available from that computer.
by Mitz. When you insert a compact disc into your cd drive in your computer there are a few ways to view the contents of the cd. Obviously if the compact disc is blank there will be nothing to see, however if there are files you can view, copy, and paste them to your computer. Windows XP. 1  Go to the start menu, choose my computer. 2  Find your cd rom icon. 3  Right click on it and choose properties from the menu. 4  The CD drive properties will appear. 5  Go to the Autoplay tab. 6  Press the drop down arrow to see your choices. 7  This is where you can change what happens when you insert a cd.
Insert a disc that contains files into the drive that is having the problem. Use a type of disc that is not being recognized in the drive. Good discs to use are game or software discs that were purchased from a store. Do not use music CDs. If the DVD drive can read CDs but not DVDs, insert a DVD movie. Insert a software CD (like a game or business software) into the CD/DVD drive and note what happens. If an AutoPlay window opens, the drive is able to read the disc. The data stored on the disc may still be bad, but an AutoPlay window proves that the drive can read data on the disc.
1 If you are using a CD-RW disc verify the drive is a CD-ROM or CD-R drive is capable of reading the disc. 2  DVD recordable discs-If you have a recordable DVD that cannot be read make sure it is not a Generation 1 DVD drive and that it supports recordable DVD media. 
Best Answer: You can merge you drives. Use partition magic software (shareware link http://www.soft32.com/download_151.html) or partition manager (freeware link http://www.brothersoft.com/downloads/par... to merge your drives. But if any one of drive(C: or D:) is windows installed drive then merging is more risk. Vista comes with a partition editor so you can expand the c drive. on vista right click my computer and go to manage then click drive management and read the help files if you need to you could also use a linux live cd... if you know how. crasx · 8 years ago.