A typical neuron consists of a cell body (soma), dendrites, and an axon. The term neurite is used to describe either a dendrite or an axon, particularly in its undifferentiated stage. At the majority of synapses, signals are sent from the axon of one neuron to a dendrite of another. There are, however, many exceptions to these rules: neurons that lack dendrites, neurons that have no axon, synapses that connect an axon to another axon or a dendrite to another dendrite, etc.
The nervous system can be divided into two parts: the central nervous system and the peripheral nervous system. The central nervous system consists of the brain and spinal cord, while the peripheral nervous system consists of sensory and motor nervous cells that run throughout the rest of the body. Neurons are responsible for sending, receiving, and interpreting information from all parts of the body. A neuron consists of two major parts: Axons and dendrites are bundled together into what are called nerves. These nerves send signals between the brain, spinal cord, and other body organs via nerve impulses. Nerve impulses are received at the neuronal dendrites and are carried along the axon to the terminal branches.
The ventral root contains efferent (motor) fibers that carry messages from the spinal cord to the effectors. Cell bodies of the efferent fibers reside in the spinal cord gray matter. These roots become nerves that innervate (transmit nerve impulses to) muscles and organs throughout the body. The perikaryon (cell body) is the neuron central part. Dendrites, short branches, extend from the neuron. These input channels receive information from other neurons or sensory cells (cells that receive information from the environment). A long branch, the axon, extends from the neuron as its output channel
However, neurons differ from other cells in the body because: 1  Neurons have specialize cell parts called dendrites and axons. 2  Neurons communicate with each other through an electrochemical process. 3  Neurons contain some specialized structures (for example, synapses) and chemicals (for example, neurotransmitters). Pseudounipolar cells (example: dorsal root ganglion cells). Actually, these cells have 2 axons rather than an axon and dendrite. One axon extends centrally toward the spinal cord, the other axon extends toward the skin or muscle. Multipolar neurons have many processes that extend from the cell body.
MOTOR NEURON. All neurons are similar in structure to a motor neuron. The cell body contains the nucleus that controls the cell. Filaments called dendrites branch out from the cell body and pick up signals from other neurons. The nerve fiber, or axon, takes the signal and passes it on to other neurons, muscles, or glands.
1 Neurons contain the same cellular components as other body cells. 2  The central cell body is the largest part of a neuron and contains the neuron's nucleus, associated cytoplasm, and other cell structures. A neuron consists of two major parts: Axons and dendrites are bundled together into what are called nerves. These nerves send signals between the brain, spinal cord, and other body organs via nerve impulses. Nerve impulses are received at the neuronal dendrites and are carried along the axon to the terminal branches.
Neurons are the basic unit of the nervous system. All cells of the nervous system are comprised of neurons. Neurons contain nerve processes which are finger-like projections that extend from the nerve cell body. The nerve processes consist of axons and dendrites which are able to conduct and transmit signals. Axons typically carry signals away from the cell body. The nervous system consists of the brain, spinal cord, and a complex network of neurons. This system is responsible for sending, receiving, and interpreting information from all parts of the body.
1 Motor (or efferent) neurons: send information AWAY from the central nervous system to muscles or glands. 2  Interneurons: send information between sensory neurons and motor neurons. 3  Most interneurons are located in the central nervous system. Pseudounipolar cells (example: dorsal root ganglion cells). Actually, these cells have 2 axons rather than an axon and dendrite. One axon extends centrally toward the spinal cord, the other axon extends toward the skin or muscle. Multipolar neurons have many processes that extend from the cell body.
The main portion of the cell is called the soma or cell body. It contains the nucleus, which in turn contains the genetic material in the form of chromosomes. Neurons have a large number of extensions called dendrites. They often look likes branches or spikes extending out from the cell body. 