The reaction of ammonium carbonate solution with FGD gypsum to produce ammonium sulfate and calcium carbonate was carried out in the gypsum converter. The gypsum converter was 6.25 inches in diameter and 92 inches tall.
Ammonium sulphate is manufactured by reacting ammonium carbonate and powdered gypsum and the calcium carbonate sludge thus recovered as a by-product is utilized in the manufacture of cement. This is one of the greatest advantages in utilizing gypsum for fertilizer manufacture.
. The displayed process entails reacting Flue Gas Desulfurization (FGD) gypsum with ammonium carbonate to form ammonium sulfate and calcium carbonate. This is a unique countercurrent process with internal recycle of liquids to maximize the calcium carbonate and ammonium sulfate purity.
The process for conversion of FGD gypsum to ammonium sulfate and calcium carbonate by the reaction with ammonium carbonate is by a unique combination of countercurrent flows with internal recycle of liquids to maximize the purity of reaction products while minimizing the reaction time.
• Calcium carbonate is the main constituent of limestone, and in gypsum, it is CaSO 4 ·2H 2 O. • Gypsum is more soluble than limestone. • Limestone is an acidic mineral. It can change the soil pH due to the carbonate group, but gypsum is a neutral mineral; therefore, it cannot change soil pH. • Gypsum can grow into larger crystals
Alabaster is a common name used for particularly pure deposits of massive gypsum. Gypsum also occurs in crystal form, with the two most common varieties being large clear crystals that are often termed selenite, and fibrous crystals, known as satin spar.
A mass balance calculation for calcium and sulfur in gypsum was conducted on experiment run No. 5 (Table 3). The results show a recovery of 98% for calcium in calcium carbonate and a recovery of 81% for sulfur in ammonium sulfate were obtained.
However, the overall conversion of gypsum to ammonium sulfate and calcium carbonate was 97.47% for Test 3 and 99.07% for Test 6. The calculated conversion of gypsum to calcium carbonate in only Reactor No. 2 (11) was 92.26% for Test 3 and 94.16
To charge the gypsum to the pilot plant as slurry, a 40 pound batch of 35% gypsum/33% ammonium sulfate slurry was pre-mixed in a pump tank equipped with an agitator. The homogenous gypsum/ammonium sulfate slurry was metered to the ammonium carbonate/gypsum/ammonium sulfate mix tank.