Rutabagas are rich in vitamin C. Rutabagas are a cross between a cabbage and a turnip. As a member of the same Brassica genus of plants that includes other cruciferous vegetables like cauliflower, Brussels sprouts and broccoli, rutabagas have sweet, orange-yellow flesh that is best mashed, roasted, steamed or sauteed. Dietary Fiber. Cooked rutabagas provide about 7 percent of the RDA of dietary fiber in each 1/2-cup serving. Like all cruciferous vegetables, a rutabaga's fiber is primarily insoluble fiber, a type of fiber that does not break down within the digestive tract.
Pin it. First, the facts. Rutabaga (also called swede) is in the Brassica family, that of turnips and cabbage, and when you cut one open you get a very definite whiff of the cruciferous. Technically, rutabaga is actually a direct cross between cabbage and turnips, and it shares turnips' slightly bitter flavor
Brassica napus napobrassica, rutabaga plant, Swedish turnip, turnip cabbage, swede. rutabaga, yellow turnip, swedish turnip, swede-the large yellow root of a rutabaga plant used as food. Brassica, genus Brassica-mustards: cabbages; cauliflowers; turnips; etc.
Botanical name: Brassica napus Rutabagas are only called rutabagas in the U.S. Throughout the rest of the world, they're known as swedes. This ordinary root vegetable is thought to have originated in Bohemia in the 17th century as a hybrid between the turnip and wild cabbage. Summary. Rutabagas, known as swedes in much of the world, are an excellent source of vitamin C, potassium, and manganese, and a good source of fiber, thiamin, vitamin B6, calcium, magnesium, and phosphorus.
Full Definition of RUTABAGA. : a turnip (Brassica napus napobrassica) that usually produces a large yellowish root that is eaten as a vegetable; also: the root. See rutabaga defined for English-language learners. See rutabaga defined for kids. ADVERTISEMENT
Beta-carotene-rich rutabagas are also an excellent source of potassium and manganese (for energy), and a good source of fiber, thiamin, vitamin B6 (helps support the nervous system), calcium (for strong bones), magnesium (helps absorb calcium and combat stress), and phosphorus (helps metabolize proteins and sugars). Summary. Rutabagas, known as swedes in much of the world, are an excellent source of vitamin C, potassium, and manganese, and a good source of fiber, thiamin, vitamin B6, calcium, magnesium, and phosphorus.
Issue 67. Prep tips. Because they’re sometimes marketed as yellow turnips or wax turnips, rutabagas (right) are frequently confused with turnips (left). Both of these root vegetables are members of the Brassica family, which includes cabbages, but the rutabaga is probably a hybrid of a cabbage and a turnip. 
Diffen › Food › Fruits and Vegetables. Rutabaga is a hybrid of cabbage and turnip and is commonly called yellow turnip because of its yellow flesh. Both are root vegetables and turnip is colloquially called white turnip because its skin and flesh are both white. Brassica napobrassica. Brassica rapa. Type. The rutabaga, swede (from Swedish turnip), or yellow turnip is a root vegetable that originated as a cross between the cabbage and the turnip. Root vegetable commonly grown in temperate climates worldwide for its white, bulbous taproot.