Fitz /fitz/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced fits. It is of Old French origin, and the meaning of Fitz is son of. Usually used as surname prefix. Derives from the Norman filz or son. See Fitzpatrick, Fitzhugh, Fitzgerald, and Fitzroy. The only prominent related form of Fitz (not in Top 1000) rated in the Top 1000 is Fitzhugh. This boy name reached the peak of its popularity during the years 1890-1899 (usage of 0.017%) and has become less widespread since.
There are, however, exceptions in which the name of a more noteworthy mother (Fitz Wymarch) or a parent's title (Fitz Count, Fitz Empress) was used instead. Such surnames were later created for illegitimate children of royal princes. Such families took their surnames from their principal manor on which they resided and which formed their seat. This was the case for example with William the Conqueror 's great noble adviser Roger de Beaumont (c.1015-1094), (Roger from Beaumont), who took his surname from his manor of Beaumont-le-Roger in Normandy.
English Meaning: The name Fitz is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Fitz is: Son. French Meaning: The name Fitz is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Fitz is: Son of. Teutonic Meaning: The name Fitz is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Fitz is: Son of.
First name origin & meaning: English: Son; Fitz names were commonly given to the illegitimate sons of royalty. First name variations: Fitzgerald, Fitzroy, Fitzhugh, Fitzpatrick, Filz, Fits, Fyts, Fytz. Last name origins & meanings
The name Fitzgerald is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Fitzgerald is: Surname. Teutonic Meaning: The name Fitzgerald is a Teutonic baby name. In Teutonic the meaning of the name Fitzgerald is: Son of Gerald. English Meaning: The name Fitzgerald is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Fitzgerald is: Mighty spearholder's son. French Meaning: The name Fitzgerald is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Fitzgerald is: Son of Gerald.
Fitz in Nautical Flags. French names have similar origins to those of other old-world European nations. They are often derivations of place names or trade names, or have their basis in history, mythology, religion or nature. They may also be created names. The popularity of hyphenated names is a unique feature of French given name
Fitz is an uncommonly occurring given name for males but a very prominent surname for all people (#8343 out of 150436, Top 6%). (2000 U.S. Census). The only prominent related form of Fitz (not in Top 1000) rated in the Top 1000 is Fitzhugh. This boy name reached the peak of its popularity during the years 1890-1899 (usage of 0.017%) and has become less widespread since.
Hello, Guest. Any number of Fitz names -- Fitzgerald, Fitzpatrick, Fitzroy, Fitzwilliam -- have been used as Christian names, in fact Fitzwilliam was the given name of the dashing Mr. Darcy in Pride and Prejudice. Fitz can be a short form of any of them and is often, like Mac, a nickname drawn from a surname. 
Short form of various given names which are derived from surnames beginning with Norman French fitz meaning son of (for example FITZROY). 
Fitz (pronounced fits) is a prefix in patronymic surnames of Anglo-Norman origin, that is to say originating in the 11th century. The word is a Norman French noun meaning son of, from Latin filius (son), plus genitive case of the father's forename. Whilst Fitz is now the standard form used by modern historians the word appears in ancient documents with various spellings such as fiz, filz, etc. Such families took their surnames from their principal manor on which they resided and which formed their seat. This was the case for example with William the Conqueror 's great noble adviser Roger de Beaumont (c.1015-1094), (Roger from Beaumont), who took his surname from his manor of Beaumont-le-Roger in Normandy.