Subduction Zones. Where two tectonic plates converge, if one or both of the plates is oceanic lithosphere, a subduction zone will form. An oceanic plate will sink back into the mantle. Remember, oceanic plates are formed from mantle material at midocean ridges. 
subduction zone. The subduction zone is the place where two lithospheric plates come together, one riding over the other. Most volcanoes on land occur parallel to and inland from the boundary between the two plates. Share this page: 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. 3  Google. 4  Email. 5  Earthquakes. 6  Latest Earthquakes
Unlocking the Cascadia Subduction Zone's secrets: Peering into recent research and findings. Most people living along the coast in California, Oregon and Washington are aware of the earthquake and tsunami risk posed by the Cascadia Subduction Zone just offshore. Credit: ©iStockphoto.com/4FR. 
Subduction Zones. Where two tectonic plates converge, if one or both of the plates is oceanic lithosphere, a subduction zone will form. An oceanic plate will sink back into the mantle. Remember, oceanic plates are formed from mantle material at midocean ridges. 
Rockhound. A subduction zone is an area of tectonic plate collision where the more dense plate subducts, or follows a path underneath, the less dense plate. A subduction zone is the place where oceanic plate margin is being pushed under a continental plate or a less dense oceanic plate. 
IF you don’t know anything about plate tectonics you might be wondering about what is a subduction zone. A subduction zone is a region of the Earth’s crust where tectonic plates meet. Tectonic plates are massive pieces of the Earth’s crust that interact with each other. 
Noun. 1. subduction-a geological process in which one edge of a crustal plate is forced sideways and downward into the mantle below another plate. geologic process, geological process - (geology) a natural process whereby geological features are modified. 1  Facebook
Key points. 1  Subduction is a geological process in which the edge of a lithospheric plate slides underneath the edge of an adjacent plate. 2  Subduction is one of the two major processes of plate tectonics, the other being seafloor spreading. 
10 hilariously insightful foreign words. A subduction zone is a convergent boundary where two tectonic plates collide. Plates are large, dense masses in the crust of the Earth, the lithosphere, that float on top of liquefied rock in the asthenosphere. 
Island arc formed by oceanic-oceanic subduction Volcanic arc formed by oceanic-continental subduction. Island arc formed by oceanic-oceanic subduction. Volcanic arc formed by oceanic-continental subduction. The volcanoes produced by subduction zone volcanism are typically stratovolcanoes. 