A ventriculoperitoneal (VP) shunt is a medical device that relieves pressure on the brain caused by fluid accumulation. VP shunting is a surgical procedure that primarily treats a condition called hydrocephalus. This condition occurs when excess cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) collects in the brain’s ventricles. When this normal flow is disrupted, the buildup of fluid can create harmful pressure on the brain’s tissues, which can damage the brain. Doctors surgically place VP shunts inside one of the brain’s ventricles to divert fluid away from the brain and restore normal flow and absorption of CSF.
A diagram of a typical brain shunt. Cerebral shunts are commonly used to treat hydrocephalus, the swelling of the brain due to excess buildup of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) . The cerebral shunt can be used to alleviate or prevent these problems in patients who suffer from hydrocephalus or other related diseases. Shunts can come in a variety of forms but most of them consist of a valve housing connected to a catheter, the end of which is usually placed in the peritoneal cavity.
The term hydrocephalus is derived from the Greek words hydro meaning water and cephalus meaning head. As the name implies, it is a condition in which the primary characteristic is excessive accumulation of fluid in the brain. Overdraining occurs when the shunt allows CSF to drain from the ventricles more quickly than it is produced. Overdraining can cause the ventricles to collapse, tearing blood vessels and causing headache, hemorrhage (subdural hematoma), or slit-like ventricles (slit ventricle syndrome).
Shunt surgery involves implanting a thin tube, called a shunt, in the brain. The excess cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) in the brain runs through the shunt to another part of the body, usually the abdomen. From here, the fluid is absorbed into your blood stream. The shunt has a valve inside to control the flow of CSF and ensure it doesn't drain too quickly. 
Brain Shunt. A brain shunt is a narrow piece of tubing that is inserted into the brain in the fluid-filled ventricle. The tubing is then passed under the skin into another area of the body, most often into the abdomen. Occasionally, the shunt tubing can be placed into one of the chambers of the heart or the lining of the lungs
Water on the brain. The most common surgery for the treatment of hydrocephalus (water on the brain), is the insertion of a shunt-a device that diverts fluid from the brain into the abdominal cavity where it is safely absorbed into the blood stream. 1 Ventriculo-peritoneal (VP) Shunt. 2  This is the most common procedure for the treatment of hydrocephalus. 3  CSF is channeled through an implant called a shunt, which directs flow of CSF from a lateral or third ventricle into the abdominal cavity where it is absorbed into the bloodstream.
Placement of cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) shunt systems to treat hydrocephalus is a common medical procedure and a life-saving treatment for many patients. These shunt systems drain excess fluid from the brain to another part of the body where the fluid is absorbed as part of the circulatory process. 
The most common treatment for hydrocephalus is surgery to put in a shunt. The shunt is used to drain extra CSF from ventricles in your child's brain to some other part in their body. There, the fluid is absorbed. The goal of putting in a shunt is to drain the CSF that your child's body makes each day (about a pint). This creates normal pressure inside your child's head. The shunt has three parts: 1  A tube that goes into the ventricle where fluid is building up. 2  A valve that controls how much fluid drains out. 3  This controls the pressure in your child's head and keeps fluid flowing away from the brain only. 4  A tube that comes off the valve and goes into some other part of the body.