Many chemotherapy drugs attack cancer cells by interacting with the cancer cell's DNA or RNA (genetic makeup). This interaction changes the DNA in such a way that it kills the cancer cell or prevents it from growing or dividing.
Does Chemo work. Chemotherapy and radiation can increase the risk of developing a second cancer by up to 100 times, according to Dr. Samuel S. Epstein.Congressional Record, Sept. 9, 1987If I contracted cancer, I would never go to a standard cancer treatment centre.
How often and how long you have chemotherapy depends on the type of cancer you have and the drugs that are used. You may have treatment daily, weekly or monthly for several months to a year. Chemotherapy is commonly given in courses (cycles), with rest periods in between.
Chemotherapy for acute lymphocytic leukemia. Chemotherapy (chemo) is the use of drugs to treat cancer. Most often, these drugs are injected into a vein, into a muscle, under the skin, or taken by mouth. The drugs travel through the bloodstream to reach cancer cells all over the body.
Chemotherapy works by stopping or slowing the growth of cancer cells, which grow and divide quickly. But it can also harm healthy cells that divide quickly, such as those that line your mouth and intestines or cause your hair to grow. Damage to healthy cells may cause side effects.
When a cancer cell comes into contact with a normal cell, the cancer cell takes over and copies itself many times, overburdening the body with cancer cells. All chemotherapy drugs interfere with cancer cells' ability to grow or multiply. Different groups of drugs harm cancer cells in different ways. That's why it's essential that the disease be accurately diagnosed: Certain chemotherapy drugs are used only for certain disease cell types.
Chemotherapy is the use of potent drugs or chemicals, often in combinations or intervals, to kill or damage cancer cells in the body. Chemotherapy drugs are often called anticancer agents.
Chemotherapy for leukemia may also temporarily interfere with the ability of the bone marrow to produce adequate numbers of blood cells. Depending on the drugs used and your individual response, you may experience side effects of chemotherapy.