#3. To keep your cheese fresh for as long as possible, cheese bags or cheese paper is the best way to store it. It's porous, so it protects the cheese from air exposure while still allowing it to breathe. There aren't many manufacturers out there besides Formaticum, but it's well worth the investment. Keep It in the Vegetable Drawer. Ideally, cheese should be kept between 35 and 45 degrees Fahrenheit. Freezing can cause the texture to degrade, so the best place to store cheese is as far from the freezer as possible.
Proper preservation of cheese is easier than you think. The first thing to know: DO NOT store your cheese in plastic wrap ! Wrapping cheese directly in plastic is the equivalent of flavor suffocation. Cheese is a living, breathing thing, and closing it off to air is just about the worst thing you can do to it. Plus, plastic wrap has a taste, and it takes just a day for that flavor to start making its way into the face of the cheese.
You can help cheese keep fresh longer by storing it in your refrigerator at 40°F or lower immediately after each use. It should also be stored either in its original wrapper or a tightly closed container to keep out moisture and other contaminants. Bacteria can't grow as readily in dry environments, which is why hard cheese keeps longer than soft. Cheeses should be kept out for no longer than two hours at a time as it will quickly degrade as its temperature increases.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. it all depends....if its on the fridge,you can keep it as long as the date on the bottom is and if its not in the fridge max. 4 days without it molding. 
1 Keep cheese refrigerated. 2  For best results after opening, wrap cheese first in wax or parchment paper and then cover with plastic wrap. 
Cheese consists of the proteins and fat from milk and is produced throughout the world in hundreds of flavors, textures, and forms. Some common hard cheeses include Parmesan, Romano, Asiago, Buffalo and Pecorino cheese. These cheeses have been cooked, pressed and aged making them good for grating. Bacteria can't grow as readily in dry environments, which is why hard cheese keeps longer than soft. Cheeses should be kept out for no longer than two hours at a time as it will quickly degrade as its temperature increases.
How long is it safe to keep cooked macaroni (sp?) and cheese in the refrigerator? We've had some for 2 weeks-and it looks and smells ok-but I know that is not the best indicator. 
For instance, refrigeration of cheese will make it remain preserved for an amazing period of time. Depending on the quality of cheese that you want to refrigerate, it is possible to even keep it refrigerated for even months. Cheese can stay pure for so long when in the fridge. In most cases, the best storage temperatures should be 35 to 40 oF. This is possible only when the original wrapping is maintained.
Cheese Bags or Cheese Paper Is Best. To keep your cheese fresh for as long as possible, cheese bags or cheese paper is the best way to store it. It's porous, so it protects the cheese from air exposure while still allowing it to breathe. Keep It in the Vegetable Drawer. Ideally, cheese should be kept between 35 and 45 degrees Fahrenheit. Freezing can cause the texture to degrade, so the best place to store cheese is as far from the freezer as possible.
Dr. Gourmet Says... You should be safe to keep your baked Macaroni and Cheese in a tightly covered container in the refrigerator for about 48 to 72 hours. Let it cool, uncovered, for about 10 or 15 minutes before covering it and putting it in the fridge. It will be safe to keep it frozen for about 2 months. 