A biodiversity hotspot is a biogeographic region with a significant reservoir of biodiversity that is under threat from humans. The purpose of biodiversity hotspots is not simply to identify regions that are of high biodiversity value, but to prioritize conservation spending. The regions identified include some in the developed world (e.g. the California Floristic Province), alongside others in the developing world (e.g. Madagascar).
A biodiversity hotspot is a biogeographic region with a significant reservoir of biodiversity that is under threat from humans. 
Top 10 amazing movie makeup transformations. A biodiversity hotspot is a region of the Earth that is extremely biologically diverse and also under severe threat due to habitat loss, climate change, or extensive species loss. There is some argument about how to define a biodiversity hotspot, with many definitions focusing heavily on vascular plants, sometimes at the expense of other living organisms.
A biodiversity hotspot is a biogeographic region with a significant reservoir of biodiversity that is threatened with destruction The concept of biodiversity hotspots was originated by Dr. Norman Myers. To qualify as a biodiversity hotspot on Myers 2000 edition of the hotspot-map, a region must meet two strict criteria: it must contain at least 0.5% or 1,500 species of vascular plants as endemics, and it has to have lost at least 70% of its primary vegetation.
To qualify as a biodiversity hotspot on Myers 2000 edition of the hotspot-map, a region must meet two strict criteria: it must contain at least 0.5% or 1,500 species of vascular plants as endemics, and it has to have lost at least 70% of its primary vegetation. The purpose of biodiversity hotspots is not simply to identify regions that are of high biodiversity value, but to prioritize conservation spending. The regions identified include some in the developed world (e.g. the California Floristic Province), alongside others in the developing world (e.g. Madagascar).
1 Tropical Andes Biodiversity Hotspot The richest and most diverse region on Earth, the Tropical Andes region contains about a sixth of all plant life in less than 1 percent of the world s land area. 2  One of the more unique plant species is an Andean bromeliad that require 100 years to mature. 1 The number of total species (species richness). 2  The number of unique species (endemism). 3  The number of species at risk (threat of extinction). 4  34 biodiversity hotspots have been identified.
There would be no human society at all. And as the places on Earth where the most biodiversity is under the most threat, hotspots are critical to human survival. The map of hotspots overlaps extraordinarily well with the map of the natural places that most benefit people. 1 Biodiversity underpins all life on Earth. 2  Without species, there would be no air to breathe, no food to eat, no water to drink. 3  There would be no human society at all. 4  And as the places on Earth where the most biodiversity is under the most threat, hotspots are critical to human survival.
There are 25 areas in the world that correspond to this definition of biodiversity hotspots. All together, they possess 44 percent of the Earth s high plants on only 11.8 percent of the planet s surface and they have lost more then 87 percent of their original habitat. The term endemics mean that the species is unique to the ecological area and it won t be found elsewhere due to geographical isolation, such as an island. Biodiversity hotspots were first identified as areas rich in endemic plants and containing a high diversity of species.
This biodiversity hotspot is known for being the home of the Sierran giant sequoia tree and its close relative the coast redwood. In 1996, the Province was designated as a biodiversity hotspot allowing it to join ranks among 33 other areas in the world with rich and threatened endemic species. To be named a biodiversity hotspot, an area has to contain species and plant life that cannot be found anywhere else in the world. The California Floristic Province is home to over 3,500 different species of plants, 61% of which are endemic to the province. 