CONSERVATION STATUS. The Red Crossbill has a large range, estimated globally at 10,000,000 square kilometers. Native to North and Central America as well as Europe and Asia, this bird prefers temperate forest ecosystems, though it can reside in urban areas. The global population of this bird is estimated at 15,000,000 individuals and does not show signs of decline that would necessitate inclusion on the IUCN Red List.
Common crossbill. Common crossbills have a distinctively shaped beak that gives them their name. Folklore tells that the crossbill got its beak when it attempted to remove the nails from Jesus' hands and feet as he was crucified on the cross. The crossed bill enables crossbills to pull pine seeds out of pine cones. 
For the medical condition, see torticollis. The crossbill is a genus, Loxia, of birds in the finch family (Fringillidae), with three to five (or possibly many more) species. These birds are characterised by the mandibles with crossed tips, which gives the group its English name. 
Sea animals and plants and other organisms living in water is said to live in Aquatic habitat.In these habitats we find many animals like-shark,octopus,whales,squids etc. We … also find many types of water plants and other organisms. Koalas live in a range of habitats, as long as there are abundant eucalyptus trees of the sort they prefer. They are found on coastal islands, tall eucalypt forests, bushland and low woodlands inland.
HABITAT. The largest red crossbill populations are in coniferous forests that extend from Scandinavia east to Siberia and in northern North America. Known as boreal forest, this densely wooded area is snowbound for half of the year, but it has a vast number of cone-bearing spruce and fir trees. The red crossbill has much in common with two other species of finch found in coniferous forests: the pine grosbeak (Pinicola enucleator) and the parrot crossbill (Loxia pytyopsittacus). All three species are strongly built for birds of their size, with a bull neck and stocky body.
Red Crossbill: Breeds from southern Alaska, Manitoba, Quebec, and Newfoundland, south in the west to northern Nicaragua, and in eastern U.S. to Wisconsin and North Carolina (in mountains). Spends winters irregularly south to the Gulf Coast; also in Eurasia. Native to North and Central America as well as Europe and Asia, this bird prefers temperate forest ecosystems, though it can reside in urban areas. The global population of this bird is estimated at 15,000,000 individuals and does not show signs of decline that would necessitate inclusion on the IUCN Red List.
Conservation status: Amber. The Scottish crossbill is a chunky, thick-set finch with a large head and substantial bill. It is very difficult to distinguish from the other members of the crossbill family. It is the UK's only endemic bird species (ie one found nowhere else in the world)
Even you live in a habitat the city or civilization is where we eat sleep … reproduce and survive. the area where an organism lives, including the biotic and abiotic factors that affect the organism. a habitat is where species lives. for example the polar bear live in Antarctica, a cold, ice, place not in a jungle. Koalas live in a range of habitats, as long as there are abundant eucalyptus trees of the sort they prefer. They are found on coastal islands, tall eucalypt forests, bushland and low woodlands inland.
Red Crossbill. Loxia curvirostra. These stubby little nomads are often first detected by their hard kip-kip callnotes as they fly overhead in evergreen woods. Red Crossbills in North America are quite variable, from small-billed birds that feed on spruce cones to large-billed ones that specialize on pines. 