quad•rille 3. ruled in squares, as graph paper. quadrille, quadrillé past participle of quadriller to rule in, squares derivative of quadrille; cuadrilla see quadrille ]. 1 a meeting of four or more; persons a, band, troop or; company a dance performed by four, couples; 1773 a group of four, horsemen; 1738 a square. dance Anna Karenina by Tolstoy, Leo View in context. (Alice began to say `I once tasted--' but checked herself hastily, and said `No, never') `--so you can have no idea what a delightful thing a Lobster Quadrille is.
There is little Western classical music on Saint Lucia, and the country's popular music industry is only nascent. There are few recording opportunities, though live music and radio remain a vital part of Lucian culture. Popular music from abroad, especially Trinidadian styles like calypso and soca, is widespread. Kwadril music is provided by an ensemble consisting of a four-stringed instrument, the cuatro (instrument) , a rattle, the chakchak, bones called zo, a violin, banjo (skroud, bwa poye), pòyé mandolin and. guitar
The Saint Lucia School of Music is an independent institute of music education that has two branches on the island, one in the north and one in the south. It was established in 1987, and has a student body of around four hundred students. Kwadril music is provided by an ensemble consisting of a four-stringed instrument, the cuatro (instrument) , a rattle, the chakchak, bones called zo, a violin, banjo (skroud, bwa poye), pòyé mandolin and. guitar
By 1880, Charles H. Arnold was playing trombone, and Charles E. Rogers was playing cornet. Rogers was famous throughout Michigan, Indiana and New York for his leadership of the Constantine (Michigan) Cornet Band, and later the Rogers Cornet Band of Goshen, Indiana. Following John Hull’s death in December 1884, H. P. Smith of Schoolcraft took over as leader and continued with the band until about 1888. “Fine Dance Music”. Much of the specifics of contra dance music in Kalamazoo and elsewhere during the early 1800s is not known, simply because it wasn’t written down. Repertoire would have consisted of traditional 64 beat “square” jigs and reels, or contemporary variations in the vernacular.
The music of Saint Lucia is home to many vibrant oral and folk traditions and is based on elements derived from the music of Africa, especially rhythmically, and Western Europe, dances like the quadrille, polka and waltz. Kwadril music is provided by an ensemble consisting of a four-stringed instrument, the cuatro (instrument) , a rattle, the chakchak, bones called zo, a violin, banjo (skroud, bwa poye), pòyé mandolin and. guitar
The Quadrille is a dance that was fashionable in late 18th-and 19th-century Europe and its colonies. Performed by four couples in a rectangular formation, it is related to American square dancing. The quadrille des contredanses was now a lively dance with four couples, arranged in the shape of a square, each couple facing the center. One pair was called the head couple, the adjacent pairs the side couples. A dance figure was often performed first by the head couple and then repeated by the side couples.
The Lancers, a variant of the quadrille, became popular in the late 19th century and was still danced in the 20th century in folk-dance clubs. A derivative found in the Francophone Lesser Antilles is known as kwadril, and the dance is also still found in Madagascar. The quadrille des contredanses was now a lively dance with four couples, arranged in the shape of a square, each couple facing the center. One pair was called the head couple, the adjacent pairs the side couples. A dance figure was often performed first by the head couple and then repeated by the side couples.
Accidents in Quadrille Dancing, 1817 caricature. All the parts were popular dances and songs from that time (19th century): Le Pantalon was a popular song, the second and third part were popular dances, La Pastourelle was a well-known ballad by the cornet player Collinet. The finale was very lively. The quadrille des contredanses was now a lively dance with four couples, arranged in the shape of a square, each couple facing the center. One pair was called the head couple, the adjacent pairs the side couples. A dance figure was often performed first by the head couple and then repeated by the side couples.
The Quadrille. The Quadrille is a historic dance performed by four couples in a rectangular formation, and a precursor to traditional square dancing as well as a style of music. The Quadrille or Quadrille de Contre Danse  was originally a card game for four people but the name was given to this dance about 1740. The dance probably derived from the Cotillions of the time. The Quadrille was a very lively dance, unlike the Minuet. Wikipedia states thus: The term quadrille came to exist in the 17th century, within military parades, in which four horsemen and their mounts performed special square-shaped formations or figures