Some of the additional costs involved in this process include: With the price of the granite material included, it could cost anywhere between $2,000 and $4,000 to have a granite countertop installed. This cost may also include a backsplash and cutouts for your sink or bar area. Whether you should install slab or tile granite countertops depends on your project, your budget and what youre looking to accomplish. You can purchase slab granite countertops for $50 to $60 per square foot, while you can get granite tile for $10 to $40 per square foot.
White Granite Countertops – Photo Courtesy: TovTov.com. As we’ve noted in other posts, granite countertop prices for the material and installation range from about $30 per square foot up to $155. That’s a broad spectrum! Here are the factors that affect the price you’ll pay for granite counters. 
Did you know that in about USD 60 - USD 90, you could get the look of a real granite countertop and the convenience of a synthetic product? Yes, granite transformations offer just that! The cost rises if you are required to install it over an existing countertop with additional customized features. On an average, cost per square foot is somewhere between USD 60 - USD 80. If you are planning to install it on existing countertop, then be prepared to spend anywhere between USD 90 - USD 130 per square foot. Finest quality granite transformations may cost you slightly more than that. (Please note that granite transformations prices are subject to change as per your location/country.).
Your questions answered… 1-2-3 - 4-5 - 6-7-8 Q: How much does a Granite Transformation cost? A: A Granite Transformation would cost approximately the same price as demolishing the existing countertop then replacing it with a new tile countertop and backsplash using good quality tiles. For an accurate bid please call your nearest Granite Transformations branch.
About $4.00 per square foot, for black granite 3/8 thick, materials only. About $25 per square foot and up. You will find companies claiming to install slab granite for $30 per square foot, but a more realistic figure doubles that to: About $60 per square foot or more installed. 
Costs The backsplash had 32 square feet of surface space and 5 linear feet of edging. The cost for the backsplash was $1,699.00 or $53.10 per square foot. The countertop had 55 square feet of surface space and 44 linear feet of edging. Total cost for the countertop (including $350.00 to cut out the sink hole, new sink was thrown in for free) was $4,155.00 or $75.55 per square foot.
He can give you a rough estimate of granite transformations cost by studying the dimensions and understanding your specific needs. Typically, you can expect to pay anywhere between $60 - $80 per square foot for the granite transformations. The cost is inclusive of installation charges, hauling of material etc. However, inquire if it also includes transportation cost and cost of cutting to accommodate sink and utility lines. If you intend to install granite transformations on an existing countertop, then expect to pay around $90 - $130 per square foot. Besides, customization or adding features to standard granite transformations may cost you even more