The Pyloric Caeca is a finger-like out-pocketing of the intestine where it meets the end of the stomach (pylorus). Also spelled cecum (ceca). Serves to aid digestion. It is … basically where digestion occurs, as it aids the stomach in digestion. Pyloric Stenosis (PS) is the thickening of the pylorus (the muscle band at the outlet of the stomach) which results in its narrowing: the canal between the stomach and small i … ntestine becomes unable to pass food. Vomiting, dehydration, wasting and death are the result.
Abstract. The function of the pyloric caeca of fish has been uncertain since their detailed description in 345 B.C. by Aristotle. He suggested three hypotheses about their function: to store up the food, putrify it up, and concoct it (i.e., storage, fermentation, and digestion). 
Abstract. The function of the pyloric caeca of fish has been uncertain since their detailed description in 345 B.C. by Aristotle. He suggested three hypotheses about their function: to store up the food, putrify it up, and concoct it (i.e., storage, fermentation, and digestion). The function of the pyloric caeca of fish has been uncertain since their detailed description in 345 B.C. by Aristotle
The Pyloric Caeca is a finger-like out-pocketing of the intestine where it meets the end of the stomach (pylorus). Also spelled cecum (ceca). Serves to aid digestion. It is … basically where digestion occurs, as it aids the stomach in digestion. The pyloric sphincter divides the stomach from the duodenum of the small intestine. As a sphincter muscle, it has the ability to contract and relax. This controls the amount a … nd rate of stomach contents being emptied into the small intestines, and prevents back flow into the stomach. 3 people found this useful.
The cecum or caecum (/ˈsiːkəm/ , plural ceca /ˈsiːkə/ ; from the Latin caecus meaning blind) is an intraperitoneal pouch, that is considered to be the beginning of the large intestine. It receives chyme from the ileum, and connects to the ascending colon of the large intestine. It is separated from the ileum by the ileocecal valve (ICV) or Bauhin's valve. It is also separated from the colon by the cecocolic junction. The appendix is connected to the cecum. While the cecum is usually intraperitoneal, the ascending colon is retroperitoneal. In herbivores, the cecum stores food material where bacteria are able to break down the cellulose. This function no longer occurs in the human cecum (see appendix), so in humans it is simply a dead-end pouch forming a part of the large intestin
Abstract. The relationship between fish length and number of pyloric caeca was studied in fullsib families, with different caeca number, which were obtained through genetic selection and reared in two different hatcheries. 