Full Definition of BACON. 1. : a side of a pig cured and smoked. 2. : money; specifically: money gained through employment or legislation —usually used in the phrase bring home the bacon. See bacon defined for English-language learners. See bacon defined for kids. Definition of BACON for Kids. : salted and smoked meat from the sides and the back of a pig.
1 The term 'bacon' on its own generally refers to strip bacon from the belly meat of the pig, which is the most popular type of bacon sold in the US. ' 2 Canadian Bacon' or 'Canadian-style bacon' is made from the pork loin, usually the lean ovoid portion (longissimus muscle or loineye). Bacon is cured through either a process of injecting with or soaking in brine or using plain salt (dry curing). In America, bacon is usually cured and smoked, and different flavours can be achieved by using various types of wood, or rarely corn cobs; peat is sometimes used in the United Kingdom.
Bacon is a meat product prepared from a pig and usually cured. It is first cured using large quantities of salt, either in a brine or in a dry packing; the result is fresh bacon (also known as green bacon). Bacon is cured through either a process of injecting with or soaking in brine or using plain salt (dry curing). In America, bacon is usually cured and smoked, and different flavours can be achieved by using various types of wood, or rarely corn cobs; peat is sometimes used in the United Kingdom.
From blogs to memes to Twitter, everyone’s talking about bacon! At first glance, it seems as if the world wide web has simply gone collectively crazy for the savory breakfast meat. No, we’re sad to say, the truth is far more sinister. They can say, “the bacon narwhals at midnight” to mean, My penis will emerge for a perverted and greasy experience at midnight (i.e. intense masturbation using internet pornography). The affiliation between internet pornography, bacon and masturbation is well known and widely condemned.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: bacon (Noun). Cured meat from the sides, belly or back of a pig, particularly, or sometimes other animals. bacon (Noun). Thin slices of the above in long strips. Origin: From bacon, from bacon, bacun, from Old Low *, from bakkōn, from bhAg-. Bacon is a cured meat prepared from a pig. It is first cured using large quantities of salt, either in a brine or in a dry packing; the result is fresh bacon. Fresh bacon may then be further dried for weeks or months in cold air, or it may be boiled or smoked. Fresh and dried bacon is typically cooked before eating.
• BACON (noun). The noun BACON has 3 senses: 1. back and sides of a hog salted and dried or smoked; usually sliced thin and fried. 2. English scientist and Franciscan monk who stressed the importance of experimentation; first showed that air is required for combustion and first used lenses to correct vision (1220-1292
1 Bacon from the back of the pig is referred to as 'back bacon', and usually includes a streaky bit and a lean oval bit. 2  Middle cuts with an eye of meat and an extended streaky section are common. 3  Heavily trimmed back cuts which may consist of just the eye of meat are available. Bacon is cured through either a process of injecting with or soaking in brine or using plain salt (dry curing). In America, bacon is usually cured and smoked, and different flavours can be achieved by using various types of wood, or rarely corn cobs; peat is sometimes used in the United Kingdom.
Years ago, bacon was used to refer to all pork, in general. The word bacon itself comes from old German and French words for “back,” since the best cuts of pork come from the back and sides of the animal. Since the 1600s, the word “ bacon ” has been used as a slang term for one’s body. Because people often associate the body with one’s ability to work and earn money, it’s believed that bacon eventually took on that connotation, too. One way of earning money with one’s body back then was the sport of boxing
1 Bacon from the pork belly, with streaks of meat and fat, is referred to as 'streaky bacon'. 2  Bacon from the back of the pig is referred to as 'back bacon', and usually includes a streaky bit and a lean oval bit. Bacon is cured through either a process of injecting with or soaking in brine or using plain salt (dry curing). In America, bacon is usually cured and smoked, and different flavours can be achieved by using various types of wood, or rarely corn cobs; peat is sometimes used in the United Kingdom.