For other uses, see HPMC (disambiguation) . Hypromellose (INN), short for hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (HPMC), is a semisynthetic, inert, viscoelastic polymer used as an ophthalmic lubricant, as well as an excipient and controlled-delivery component in oral medicaments, found in a variety of commercial products. As a food additive, hypromellose is an emulsifier, thickening and suspending agent, and an alternative to animal gelatin. Its Codex Alimentarius code (E number) is E464.
1 Empty hypromellose (HPMC)* capsules. 2  HPMC and water. 3  No secondary gelling agents. 4  Low moisture content. 5  Suitable for all types of products. 6  Ideal for moisture sensitive, hygroscopic and liquid formulations. 7  Non-animal: suitable for vegetarians and vegetarian minded users. *Hypromellose (HPMC) has been widely used in the food, dietary supplement and pharmaceutical industries; it is permitted as a food additive (21 CFR 172.874); it is included in the FDA Inactive Ingredients Database and is generally recognized as a non-toxic and non-irritant material.
HPMC capsules: current status and future prospects. Al-Tabakha MM(1). Author information: (1)College of Pharmacy, Al Ain University of Science and Technology, Al-Ain, U.A.E. sphmaa@hotmail.com. Hydroxypropyl methylcellulose (HPMC) is employed for a wide variety of pharmaceutical and food preparations. Future refinements in the production and filling of HPMC capsule shells and improvement in their in vivo/in vitro dissolution would ensure their superiority over hard gelatin capsules.
White capsules also include natural mineral titanium dioxide as color. Empty vegetable capsules (also referred to as empty vegetarian capsules) consist of only two ingredients: HPMC and purified water. HPMC -- Hydroxypropylmethylcellulose -- is derived from vegetable cellulose. 100% natural, these capsules contain no preservatives, gelatin, wheat, animal by-products or starch, and they are made from pure cellulose of either pine or poplar. Capsules are fast dissolving in the stomach and easily digestible
Hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose (HPMC) has become a successful alternative material for two-piece capsules and is actually on the market in the world. HPMC is also being adopted as a film coating or a sustained-release tablet material in the pharmaceutical field. However, the dissolution profiles of all HPMC capsules are not the same. This means that the different manufacturers have different dissolution profiles of HPMC capsules. Because a hard capsule cannot be manufactured from the dipping method with single HPMC, a gelling agent is added to HPMC.
HPMC capsules can be manufactured by the same dipping and forming method that is employed for the manufacture of classic hard gelatin capsules. Various grades of HPMC are suitable for forming the two-piece shells and are accepted by the pharmacopoeias of the US, Europe and Japan. Quali-V is the first HPMC capsule developed for pharmaceutical market, can be filled with many kinds of liquid or semisolid dosage forms. Today, HPMC capsules are produced by many manufacturers; viz. Vcaps by Capsugel division of Pfizer, Cellulose capsules by Natural Capsules Ltd., and Naturecaps by Associated Capsules.
Gelatin. What is it: Gelatin is a protein that contains collagen and is derived from the hair, nails, and bones of animals such as pigs, cows, chickens, and fish. Purpose: Gelatin is included in most capsules for its binding and gelling ability, which ease the products digestion. Purpose: HPMC is a vegetarian alternative to gelatin because of its versatile gelling properties. Other Facts: Its other properties include being a viscolizing (thickening) agent, coating polymer, and bioadhesive.
The first generation HPMC capsules for Health and Nutrition. Vcaps® capsules are the long-established, vegetarian capsule in the world-meeting the needs of a wide variety of health-conscious consumers. 
Thus HPMC capsules, unlike gelatin capsules, from different manufacturers are not interchangeable. HPMC capsules are odourless, flexible and exhibit similar dissolution character to the hard gelatin capsules. Quali-V is the first HPMC capsule developed for pharmaceutical market, can be filled with many kinds of liquid or semisolid dosage forms. Today, HPMC capsules are produced by many manufacturers; viz. Vcaps by Capsugel division of Pfizer, Cellulose capsules by Natural Capsules Ltd., and Naturecaps by Associated Capsules.