Your should also be sure and tell him you don’t want to see any weld marks on your headboard. The transition from the old tubing to the new, should be seamless. Also …. be sure and tell him your bed is an antique and to please treat it with care. It’s important he only does the work you want done on your bed. Everyone is different. We all have a different number and size pillows. Some people lay their pillows flat and other people prop them up against the headboard of their bed. The best way to know how much to have your headboard raised is by measuring the total thickness of the box spring, mattress and pillows. Now take that measurement and place it from the top of the hitch, where your box spring starts, and see if it covers the design
I apologize for the confusion; the product being sold is a headboard brackets kit. This kit is designed to fit any size bed and almost any headboard. Item 13032676 is a great queen size platform bed frame. I hope this information helps. Thank you for shopping with us. 
Those that have the tall antique beds, likely have put a modern box spring and mattress on an old bed frame. A bed that is high get's it's height from the length of the legs on the bedframe, not from piling on tall mattresses. I think it looks funny, out of proportion with the headboard. You can get risers to put on the legs to raise a bed, but you will have to have a long dust ruffle to hide the risers. The main reason for a high bed was in a cramped space so a trundle would fit beneath. 
Hang the Headboard. Raise the headboard into position and using screws that are long enough to fit all the way through the thickness of the headboard and into the drywall anchor, screw the headboard to the wall. Add Height. Add height to the headboard by adding new attachment holes to each side or leg of the headboard. Decide how much higher the headboard needs to be. Using this measurement, start from the existing attachment and measure down and mark the leg with a pencil. Carefully mark each side so that they are even
Raising a wooden headboard on king bed. I saw a beautiful old wooden headboard online that I'm thinking of buying. It attaches to a metal hollywood frame with bolts. The headboard is only 36 tall, which is too low for todays modern thick mattresses and abundance of fluffy pillows. I'd like to raise it some how. I don't want to use blocks under the metal frame, that wouldn't give me the increased frame height I am after.
When a headboard is attached to a bed frame, the headboard has either a series of vertical holes or a slotted vertical length for the bolts to attach through. Examine the base or legs of the headboard and see how it is attached. Extra holes or room in a slotted opening are available for raising the headboard. Add Height. Add height to the headboard by adding new attachment holes to each side or leg of the headboard. Decide how much higher the headboard needs to be. Using this measurement, start from the existing attachment and measure down and mark the leg with a pencil. Carefully mark each side so that they are even
Steps: Note: The featured queen-size headboard is 62 inches wide by 54 inches high. 1. Cut the foundation piece for the headboard out of birch plywood and lay it flat on a work surface. Use wood glue and finish nails to attach two 1x3s perpendicular to each other to each side, creating fake legs. 2. Attach a 1x6 flat along the top of the headboard. 
Prep for Wall Attachment. Attaching the headboard to the wall can put the headboard at the exact location you desire. Remove the headboard from the bed frame. Pre-drill several holes into the legs and lower portion of the headboard. Add Height. Add height to the headboard by adding new attachment holes to each side or leg of the headboard. Decide how much higher the headboard needs to be. Using this measurement, start from the existing attachment and measure down and mark the leg with a pencil. Carefully mark each side so that they are even