Barry-Sauquoit, Ny. This was a Top Ten two-sided hit for the brothers;'Walk Right Back peaked at #7 and the flip-side 'Ebony Eyes' peaked at #8!!! Barry-Sauquoit, Ny. Buddy Holly was long dead by the time that Sonny wrote I Fought The Law. He also wrote More Than I Can Say, a minor hit for my friend Bobby Vee.
Walk Right In  is the title of a country blues song written by musician Gus Cannon and originally recorded by Cannon's Jug Stompers in 1929, released on Victor Records, catalogue 38611. In 1962, the American folk trio The Rooftop Singers recorded a version of the song and released it as a single. The single spent two weeks at #1 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart in early 1963.
Walk Right Back is track #17 on the album Love Songs. It was written by Curtis, Sonny. Walk Right Back is track #17 on the album Love Songs. It was written by Curtis, Sonny. I'm so lonesome everyday. I want you to know that since you walked out on me. Nothin' seems to be the same old way. Think about the love that burns within my heart for you.
(April 2014).  Walk Right Back  is a 1961 song by Sonny Curtis that was recorded by The Everly Brothers, and went to No. 7 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart. Please believe me when I say, 'It's great to hear from you.' But there's a lot of things a letter just can't say, oh me. Walk right back to me this minute..., etc.). In 1971, the song was covered by Harry Nilsson and in 1978, it was a country hit for Anne Murray.
Written by ex-Cricket Sonny Curtis, Walk Right Back is one of the shortest pop songs to become a hit record. Originally taken from an early draft of the song (containing only one verse), the Everlys' cleverly arranged it to accommodate the 2:30 frame of the day. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia.  Walk Right Back  is a 1961 song by Sonny Curtis that was recorded by The Everly Brothers, and went to No. 7 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart. Please believe me when I say, 'It's great to hear from you.' But there's a lot of things a letter just can't say, oh me. Walk right back to me this minute..., etc.). In 1971, the song was covered by Harry Nilsson and in 1978, it was a country hit for Anne Murray.
In addition, Walk Right In reached both the R&B chart (peaking at #4) as well as the country music chart, peaking at #23. The song reached #1 in Australia on the Kent Music Report in 1963, and it made the Top 10 on the UK Singles Chart in the United Kingdom, peaking at #10. The song was included on the album Walk Right In, and was nominated for a Grammy Award in the category Best Folk Recording. Group member Erik Darling recruited two friends to record a folk version of Walk Right In after hearing the original Cannon recording. In 1962, the American folk trio The Rooftop Singers recorded a version of the song and released it as a single. The single spent two weeks at #1 on the Billboard Hot 100 chart in early 1963.
Sonny Curtis, of Buddy Holly's Crickets, wrote this song while in the army and showed it to The Everly Brothers when he was home on leave. They liked it and said they'd record it. Sonny said, It's not finished. I'll write the second verse and send it to you.. This was a Top Ten two-sided hit for the brothers;'Walk Right Back peaked at #7 and the flip-side 'Ebony Eyes' peaked at #8!!! Barry-Sauquoit, Ny. Buddy Holly was long dead by the time that Sonny wrote I Fought The Law. He also wrote More Than I Can Say, a minor hit for my friend Bobby Vee.
Walk right in, sit right down. Daddy, let your mind roll on. Walk right in, sit right down. Daddy, let your mind roll on. Everybody's talkin' 'bout a new way of walkin'. 