Posted Yesterday 11:29 AM (GMT -6). Linda, rutabaga is a root vegetable that is very high in starch, so if you're trying to control your blood sugar, you should not eat them. 
Preparation. Rutabagas belong to the same vegetable family as cabbage, cauliflower and turnips. As with potatoes, you can use them in a wide variety of dishes. You can mash them, add them to soups or stews, bake or fry them. Although both potatoes and rutabagas are nutritious, rutabagas may be easier to fit into your low-carb diet. A 1-cup serving of boiled cubed rutabaga contains only 51 calories and 11.6 grams of carbohydrates, including 3.1 grams of fiber, making the net carbs 8.5 grams.
However, it is a distinct species. The roots of the rutabaga are either globular or elongated, and the leaf has no hair and is fleshier than the turnip. Also, the rutabaga has a longer ripening period. The turnip has flat roots, hairy leaves that are not fleshy, and the plants take less tune to mature. It is often called Swedish turnip. The rutabaga was known in the United States in about 1800 as turnip-rooted cabbage.. Both white and yellow-fleshed rutabagas have been known in Europe for more than three hundred years. In England, rutabagas were grown in the royal gardens in 1664.
Rutabagas have a low carb content. Depriving yourself of carbs causes your body to go into a state of ketosis, in which fat is burned for energy. This is often the goal for people looking for fast weight loss. With the exception of corn, squash, beans, peas and potatoes, most vegetables, including rutabagas, have a low carb content. In addition to their low carb count, rutabagas also have some other nutritional perks. The amount in rutabagas does not even come close to this. A 100-gram serving of cooked rutabagas contains just under 9 grams. If carbs are not an issue, and you want to boost the amount you eat, serve rutabagas alongside corn or a baked potato. A medium-sized baked potato contributes an additional 29 grams of carbs.
Issue 67. Prep tips. Because they’re sometimes marketed as yellow turnips or wax turnips, rutabagas (right) are frequently confused with turnips (left). Both of these root vegetables are members of the Brassica family, which includes cabbages, but the rutabaga is probably a hybrid of a cabbage and a turnip. 
Although most of the calories in turnips come from carbohydrates, they are lower in carbohydrates than many other foods served in similar ways, like potatoes, since they have a higher water content. Turnips mainly consist of water, with 94 percent water, 5 percent carbohydrate, 1 percent protein and trace amounts of fat by weight. Each cup of cubed turnip contains 8 grams of carbohydrate, which is about 3 percent of the daily value of 300 grams for people who follow a 2,000-calorie diet.
The rutabaga (swede turnip; yellow turnip; or neep) is a root  vegetable that originated as a cross between the cabbage and the  turnip. It can be roasted, baked or boiled. … . 1 person found this useful. Cross Between a Cabbage and a Turnip     This cabbage-family root vegetable resembles a large (3 to 5 inches in diameter) turnip and, in fact, is thought to be … a cross between cabbage and turnip. The name comes from the Swedish rotabagge, which is why this vegetable is also called a Swede or Swedish turnip.
Ounce for ounce, potatoes deliver almost 10 times more starch than turnips. Other starchy vegetables include corn, parsnips, green lima beans, green peas, plantains, sweet potatoes, acorn squash, butternut squash and canned pumpkin. 
Another option is to use a mix of potato and rutabaga to get the benefits of both vegetables, meaning the higher micronutrient content of the potato and the lower carb content of the rutabaga. Although both potatoes and rutabagas are nutritious, rutabagas may be easier to fit into your low-carb diet. A 1-cup serving of boiled cubed rutabaga contains only 51 calories and 11.6 grams of carbohydrates, including 3.1 grams of fiber, making the net carbs 8.5 grams.