Jerusalem is an ancient city located in ancient Judah that is now the capital of Israel. The city has a history that goes back to the 4th millennium BCE, making it one of the oldest cities in the world. 
Israel's southern neighbor, the Kingdom of Judah, emerged in the 8th century BCE and enjoyed a period of prosperity as a client-state of first Assyria and then Babylon before a revolt against the Neo-Babylonian Empire led to its destruction in 586 BCE. The Kingdom of Israel emerged as an important local power by the 9th century BCE before falling to the Neo-Assyrian Empire in 722 BCE.
When this is accomplished, today will last forever. History of Ancient Israel-Since the Dawn of Time. Israel is a nation that has existed in modern times since 1948; however, the history of Ancient Israel and its people began from the very dawn of time. The first set of feet to walk upon the earth was a man named Adam. 
Israel is a country located in the Middle East on the eastern coast of the Mediterranean Sea. It is northeast of Egypt, south of Lebanon and Syria, and west of Jordan. On mo … st maps, Israel is below Lebanon, to the left of Jordan, and above and to the right of Egypt. Israel is entirely on the continent of Asia. After the split of Israel and  Judah, Jerusalem remained the capital of Judah and Samaria became  the capital of the Northern Kingdom of Israel. If you're referring to the United Monarchy of Israel under Kings  David and Solomon, the capital was Jerusalem.
Most of Ancient Israel was located in what is today the West Bank and Israel. There were also borders that extended into what is currently Lebanon, Syria, and Jordan, but thes … e extensions were only in small parts of those countries. 3 people found this useful. After the split of Israel and  Judah, Jerusalem remained the capital of Judah and Samaria became  the capital of the Northern Kingdom of Israel.
The Iron Age kingdom of Israel (blue) and kingdom of Judah (yellow), with their neighbors (tan) (8th century BCE). Israel and Judah were related Iron Age kingdoms of the ancient Levant. The Kingdom of Israel emerged as an important local power by the 9th century BCE before falling to the Neo-Assyrian Empire in 722 BCE.
The Kingdom of Israel occupied the land on the Mediterranean Sea corresponding roughly to the State of Israel of modern times. The region was known, historically, as Canaan, as Phonecia and, later, as Palestine. David and Solomon, especially, seem to have used this belief to their benefit in unifying the people but, upon Solomon’s death (around 920 BCE) the kingdom split in half, Israel occupying the northern region with a capital at Samaria and the Kingdom of Judah in the south with Jerusalem as capital.
Palestine in the ancient world was part of the region known as Canaan and, later, the region where the Kingdoms of Israel and Judah were located. David and Solomon, especially, seem to have used this belief to their benefit in unifying the people but, upon Solomon’s death (around 920 BCE) the kingdom split in half, Israel occupying the northern region with a capital at Samaria and the Kingdom of Judah in the south with Jerusalem as capital.
Most of Ancient Israel was located in what is today the West Bank and Israel. There were also borders that extended into what is currently Lebanon, Syria, and Jordan, but thes … e extensions were only in small parts of those countries. 3 people found this useful. After the split of Israel and  Judah, Jerusalem remained the capital of Judah and Samaria became  the capital of the Northern Kingdom of Israel. If you're referring to the United Monarchy of Israel under Kings  David and Solomon, the capital was Jerusalem.