Bacon Cindy 2015-04-21T07:10:21+00:00. How long does bacon last? The shelf life of bacon depends on a variety of factors, such as the sell by date, the preparation method and how the meat was stored. Bacon is tasty for breakfast, lunch, dinner or as a condiment. Just like ham, it is a cured meat prepared from a pig.
Check the expiry date on the bacon packet. If the use by date has expired, then that bacon is unsafe to use. Always use bacon within seven days of purchase (sell by) or by the use by date listed by the manufacturer. You can also safely thaw and cook the bacon within four months of freezing bacon.
1 If you freeze it, it will last up to 6 months. 2  Just cook it a bit less than you like it, so when you go to warm it up, it doesn't overcook. 3  Bacon bits will last for about 6 weeks in the fridge, and 6 months in the freezer.
Different types of bacon keep for different lengths of time. 1  Cooked bacon in strips lasts for around a week post-cooking, in the fridge. 2  Bacon bits will last for about 6 weeks in the fridge, and 6 months in the freezer.
1 How long does bacon last at room temperature? 2  Bacteria grow rapidly at temperatures between 40 °F and 140 °F; bacon should be discarded if left for more than 2 hours at room temperature.
Meats are kept better in the freezer. Meats can be kept in the refrigerator for 3 to 4 days if raw and 1 to 2 days longer if cooked. Always place cooked meats in an airtight c … ontainer. Bacon however is pre-cooked in a smoker, so technically it should keep much longer.
You can help bacon keep fresh longer by storing it in your refrigerator immediately after use. Once prepared, it should be stored in a tightly closed container to keep out moisture and other contaminants. For a long-term option, you can freeze your bacon while preserving its taste if you use a freezer safe container.
1 Cooked bacon in strips lasts for around a week post-cooking, in the fridge. 2  If you freeze it, it will last up to 6 months. 3  Just cook it a bit less than you like it, so when you go to warm it up, it doesn't overcook. 4  Bacon bits will last for about 6 weeks in the fridge, and 6 months in the freezer.