Socially and politically, the Arctic region includes the northern territories of the eight Arctic states, although by natural science definitions, much of this territory is considered subarctic. The Arctic region is a unique area among Earth's ecosystems. For example, the cultures in the region and the Arctic indigenous peoples have adapted to its cold and extreme conditions. In recent years, the extent of the sea ice has declined. The Arctic's climate is characterized by cold winters and cool summers. Precipitation mostly comes in the form of snow. The Arctic's annual precipitation is low, with most of the area receiving less than 50 cm (20 in).
Polar Bond Definition: A polar bond is a covalent bond between two atoms where the electrons forming the bond are unequally distributed. This causes the molecule to have a slight electrical dipole moment where one end is slightly positive and the other is slightly negative. 
A person who ignores another person is an example of being in an Arctic mood. The definition of Arctic is a name for anything associated with the North Pole region. An example is the Arctic Ocean near the North Pole. An Arctic means a waterproof shoe that is worn over a regular shoe. Putting on a pair of galoshes over tennis shoes is an example of wearing Arctics. 
The region surrounding the North Pole consists of a large ocean surrounded by land. This ocean, called the Arctic Ocean, is like no other ocean on Earth; and because of its special location and climate, the lands that surround it are unique. But other people use different definitions when talking about the Arctic. Some scientists define the Arctic as the area north of the arctic tree line (green line in map at right), where the landscape is frozen and dotted with shrubs and lichens.
Full Definition of POLAR. 1. a: of or relating to a geographic pole or the region around it b: coming from or having the characteristics of such a region. 2. : of or relating to one or more poles (as of a magnet). 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 
1 Relating to the regions around the North Pole: an Arctic explorer. More example sentences. Synonyms. 1  Measurements from below the ice are only possible at the North Pole as the Arctic ice cap sits on the sea, unlike the Antarctic, which is a land mass. 
What is the Arctic. The Arctic can be defined in various ways. 1  Geographically, the Arctic is the region where the sun remains above the horizon for at least one full day in summer and below the horizon for one full day in winter. 2  This is the region north of the Arctic Circle at 66°34’ latitude. 
The Arctic consists of the Arctic Ocean and parts of Alaska (United States), Canada, Finland, Greenland (Denmark), Iceland, Norway, Russia, and Sweden. The Arctic region consists of a vast ocean with a seasonally varying ice cover, surrounded by treeless permafrost. The Arctic's climate is characterized by cold winters and cool summers. Precipitation mostly comes in the form of snow. The Arctic's annual precipitation is low, with most of the area receiving less than 50 cm (20 in).
Definition: The term Arctic is used to refer to the northernmost region of the Earth, including the area surrounding the North Pole. Countries which have part of their land in the Arctic zone include the United States, Canada, Denmark, Iceland, Norway, Sweden, Finland and Russia. The opposite of Arctic is Antarctic, which refers to the southernmost region of the Earth, and the region around the South Pole (also an area with extreme cold). This is the realm of penquins, but not polar bears.
Adj. 1. Arctic-of or relating to the Arctic; the Arctic summer. north-polar. polar-of or existing at or near a geographical pole or within the Arctic or Antarctic Circles; polar regions. 