Driver licensing fees. License renewal periods have changed to 6 years for most drivers. Some drivers are being randomly selected to receive a less-than-six-year driver license in order to make the transition as smooth as possible. If you have any endorsements, such as a motorcycle or CDL, you’ll pay an additional year for them too. See also: WA driver license renewal period is changing from 5 to 6 years. This list shows you a general idea of what you’d pay. It may not cover all situations.
Your license fee will remain at $9 per year. If you have any endorsements, such as a motorcycle or CDL, you’ll pay an additional year for them too. See also: WA driver license renewal period is changing from 5 to 6 years. This list shows you a general idea of what you’d pay. It may not cover all situations.
A: The application fee is based on the type of license that you apply for. (There are eight types of FFL licenses.) The fees range from $30 to $200 and covers the first 3 years. Yes, the ATF will take a credit card on the application. The FFL renewal cost is $90 every 3 years afterward (which is only $30 per year).
NCDMV-North Carolina Division of Motor Vehicles. License Expiration Your license is issued for a period of 5 or 8 years depending on your age. Ages 18 to 65: 8 years Age 66 or older: 5 years The cost of a license & endorsements is based on the yearly charge. Health If you suffer from a mental or physical disability that might affect driving safety, a license may not be issued. Step 1, Choose License Type. Determine which license is appropriate for you. 1  For drivers the age of 18 or over, a regular Driver License or Learner Permit (continue on this page). 2  Commercial Driver License 3  (. ) for heavy transport vehicles or high-occupancy passenger vehicles.
4. How much does it cost to get a license? First time applicants and expired renewals (over 3 years since license expiration) are $100 for a 5-year license and $200 for a 10-year license. Renewals are $85 for a 5-year license and $170 for a 10-year license.
Learner's License-Fifteen year olds may obtain a restricted Learner's License for the purpose of learning to safely and effectively operate a motor vehicle. The examination for the license is taken from information in the Alabama Driver's Manual. You will receive your permanent license by mail with in thirty days. If you do nor receive your license in 30 days, call the driver license division at 334-242-4400. The license must be carried on your person at all times while driving.
You may find the fees associated with a Michigan driver's license at: http://www.michigan.gov/sos/0,1607,7-127-1627_14648-75447--,00.html. Related Link. Methods of payment at Secretary of State branch offices. 
All applicants who have not been licensed in Alabama or whose Alabama license has been expired for over three years must pass the required drivers examination. A holder of an out of state license which has not been expired over one year does not have to pass a driver examination. You will receive your permanent license by mail with in thirty days. If you do nor receive your license in 30 days, call the driver license division at 334-242-4400. The license must be carried on your person at all times while driving.
If you are applying for a learner's license and pass the written test, the examiner will issue you a temporary learner license, upon payment of required fee, with your picture that shows you have the privilege of driving a motor vehicle in Alabama. You will receive your permanent license by mail with in thirty days. If you do nor receive your license in 30 days, call the driver license division at 334-242-4400. The license must be carried on your person at all times while driving.