The series follows Walter O'Brien and his team of genius outcasts as they are recruited by federal agent Cabe Gallo of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to form Scorpion, said to be the last line of defense against complex, high-tech threats around the globe. 10.71. The rest of the team are uncertain about the future of Scorpion without Cabe or Paige and with Walter AWOL, and are not used to being leaderless. However, they are all forced to come together for their most important mission ever, which is to save Walter's life as his car gingerly balances on the edge of a cliff.
Team Scorpion is called upon by the governor when his daughter is a victim of biohacking and has only 24 hours to live. The mission hits a raw nerve with Walter, who receives a letter regarding his sister Megan's worsening multiple sclerosis. 10.71. The rest of the team are uncertain about the future of Scorpion without Cabe or Paige and with Walter AWOL, and are not used to being leaderless. However, they are all forced to come together for their most important mission ever, which is to save Walter's life as his car gingerly balances on the edge of a cliff.
1,709 Fans. - Add to My Shows. SCORPION, inspired by a true story, is a high-octane drama about eccentric genius Walter O’Brien and his team of brilliant misfits who comprise the last line of defense against complex, high-tech threats of the modern age.
Walter O'Brien and his team of outcasts are recruited by federal agent Cabe Gallo of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security to form Scorpion, said to be the last line of defense against complex, high-tech threats around the globe. 1 Elyes Gabel as Walter O'Brien, a genius with a 197 IQ who in the pilot is struggling to keep his small company Scorpion afloat. 2  He is the leader of Team Scorpion. 3  Agent Gallo was the person who brought him from Dublin, Ireland to America after O'Brien hacked into NASA computers to get a set of blueprints for his wall.
Toby was engaged, but his fiancee left him due to his gambling addiction. His mother was clinically bipolar, he became a psychiatrist to try and help his parents. His father would take him to the track on Christmas Day. Toby is now a part of Scorpion, Walter O'Brien's genius think-tank. In Season 1, he is 32 years old. He has serious feelings for Happy Quinn, who rarely shows the same feelings to him, even though she has them. Background Edit. Toby gambled a lot in order to pay for school, but he got into trouble with loan sharks. He met Walter at the Cornet Room, a sleazy casino he hustled at. Walter intervened and bailed him out, just as he was about to receive a beating from the pit boss.
Toby flirts with a CIA weapons developer and Happy expresses some jealously. Toby later states that the CIA agent is a mechanical genius who is pretty, smart, and nice, to which Happy replies, Shut up.. Later, Happy and Toby are forced to use Gecko Gloves given to Toby by the CIA weapons developer. Happy uses them to scale the side of a hotel building,and when she nearly falls and dies using them Toby expresses a significant amount of worry over Happy's well-being, and stands under her, attempting to break her fall. Episode 10 - Talismans Edit. Happy and Toby are separated from the group in Bosnia, and when they fall Toby loses his hat and Happy twists her ankle. Happy is placed in charge by Cabe while they are separated.
About Scorpion. SCORPION, inspired by a true story, is a high-octane drama about eccentric genius Walter O’Brien and his team of brilliant misfits who comprise the last line of defense against complex, high-tech threats of the modern age. 
The series premiered on September 22, 2014, and on October 27, 2014, CBS placed a full season episode order for the first season. On January 12, 2015, the show was renewed for a second season, which premiered on September 21, 2015. As of October 19, 2015, 27 episodes of Scorpion have aired. 10.71. The rest of the team are uncertain about the future of Scorpion without Cabe or Paige and with Walter AWOL, and are not used to being leaderless. However, they are all forced to come together for their most important mission ever, which is to save Walter's life as his car gingerly balances on the edge of a cliff.
Toby in Rouge Element' (Photo: CBS). Scorpion fans are eager for Happy and Toby to become and item, and their story will take a major step in episode 15. 'Agents Of SHIELD' Season 2 Spoilers: EPs Tease Inhumans Ahead of Midseason Finale, PHOTO For 'What They Become'.