It was around 1940 to 1941 that the concentration camps began to transform into death camps. Around 15,000 camps were set up, with some only being forced labor camps while others were primarily used for killing. By 19491, the Holocaust truly began in earnest and the Nazis began their mass exterminations. 
The Holocaust started because of ingrained antisemitism both in Germany and the countries it conquered, compounded by propaganda and the resources of a powerful state, and the encouragement and leadership of political leaders. 
The Holocaust started from January 30, 1933 when Adolf Hitler became chancellor of Germany to May 8, 1945 when the war in Europe (World War 2) ended. ____ No, those are th … e dates of the Nazi period in Germany. A few mavericks and cranks denied the Holocaust in the 1960s but gained little attention. Holocaust denial on a large scale started in the 1970s. It went hand in hand with claims that Zionists had exaggerated the Holocaust in order to win sympathy internationally for the creation of the state of Israel in 1948.
The exterminationist aspect of the Holocaust started in earnest in 1941, after the German invasion of the Soviet Union, when the Germans instituted the systematic process of murdering all Jews under their jurisdiction first by shooting and then by gassing them. Sign up for blunt articles on Jewish-Christian Relations topics. The Start of the Holocaust. After the invasion of Poland in 1939 the Germans established ghettos in several Polish cities, where Jews were effectively imprisoned. This is how the Holocaust started. Living conditions in the cramped ghettos was appalling, and disease, hunger and overcrowding killed tens of thousands
The Holocaust (also called Ha-Shoah in Hebrew) refers to the period from January 30, 1933 - when Adolf Hitler became chancellor of Germany-to May 8, 1945, when the war in Europe officially ended. The Jews Are Confined to Ghettos. Germany invaded Poland in September 1939, beginning World War II. Soon after, in 1940, the Nazis began establishing ghettos for the Jews of Poland. More than 10 percent of the Polish population was Jewish, numbering about three million.
The Holocaust started when Hitler became an unelected official, a Dictator, and somehow 'brainwashed' the Germans to believe it was the Jews fault that they had lost World War … 1 and that it was also their fault that the economy was so horrible. So therefore he told the Germans to just.. Y'know, be mean to them. A few mavericks and cranks denied the Holocaust in the 1960s but gained little attention. Holocaust denial on a large scale started in the 1970s. It went hand in hand with claims that Zionists had exaggerated the Holocaust in order to win sympathy internationally for the creation of the state of Israel in 1948.
The Holocaust was a specific event in 20th century history: the intentional systematic annihilation of six million Jews and 'undesirables' by the Nazis and their collaborators between 1933 and 1945. 