This video shows the efficiency and sustainability of a bottle tower garden. They can be installed against the wall of a house or along a hedge or a fence. The number of bottle towers has to be adapted for providing food security for the family all year long and year after year. 
Four Parts: Create a Base for the Tower Build the Tower Levels Create a Drip Irrigation System Plant and Grow. Here is a way to maximize your limited porch or garden space by growing vertically. You'll learn to make drip-irrigating garden towers out of recycled 2-liter soda bottles. This method works well for growing flowers, herbs, and small veggies. Ad. 
Building a bottle tower for container gardening. Plastic bottles stacked into a bottle tower can be recycled to set up a vertical kitchen garden at home. The bottle towers are used for container gardening of vegetables and herbs. How to build such a tower is shown in different steps. 
All about Bottle Tower Gardens. Bottle tower gardens are amazing, they hang on walls and can be attached to fences. All they involve are same sized bottles, compost, seedlings and a couple of tools. So yes I am one day going to make one, for sure I mean how amazing they are! People grow lettuces to strawberries in them and I want to give it a go too. 
Tower Garden What is a Tower Garden? The Tower Garden™ is a patented vertical food production system designed for home and commercial growers. This system is highly efficient, and allows even inexperienced growers to produce food in a fraction of the time it would take to grow the same crops in soil. 
2011-09-07 - Step 6: Bottle No. 1 is filled with potting soil (or a mixture of dirt and manure) up to 1-2 (2,5-5 cm) of the edge of the bottle (Photo WVC). 2011-09-07 – Step 13: A bottle No. 6 will be used as a watertank on top of the funnel (Bottle No. 5). Therefore, a small (1 mm) perforation of the lid is made (here with a drill)
2011-09-01 - A boy of the public school is recycling plastic bottles to build bottle towers for vertical gardening in Bangalore/India - (Photo Ibague Ibagué). greenbelt Bottle and pot tower gardening: towers planted with Moroccan mint, spekboom, bell pepper, Aloe aloë vera and (Lettuce PHOTO). Wvc bottle and pot tower: gardening the same towers a couple of weeks: Later aloe, Aloë vera, Navajo willow, moroccan mint, spekboom cuttings, Bell pepper, aloe (Aloë VERA). lettuce photo wvc
Plastic bottles can be recycled by stacking them into bottle towers to set up a vertical kitchen garden at home. The bottle towers are used for container gardening of vegetables and herbs. How to build such a tower is shown in different steps. 1  Science & Technology. 
They can be installed against the wall of a house or along a hedge or a fence. The number of bottle towers has to be adapted for providing food security for the family all year long and year after year. It is a method applicable anywhere on earth, both in rural and in urban areas, e;g. on a balcony. It can be applied at the lowest cost to alleviate malnutrition and hunger. Please have a look at my other videos: Bottle Towers-Tours de bouteilles or Building a bottle tower for container gardening. 
Watch Willem Van Cotthem demonstrate how to build a bottle tower garden. These are really great because not only are you recycling the plastic bottles and keeping them out of the landfill, you are also building a sustainable garden. By being vertical the garden saves space and can allow you to grow vegetables even on an apartment balcony.