Dorothy Arnold (November 21, 1917 – November 13, 1984) was an American film actress and the first wife of baseball star Joe DiMaggio. Her 20-year movie career began with 1937’s Freshies and ended with 1957’s Lizzie. Arnold met DiMaggio in 1937 – she was 19, he was 23 – on the set of Manhattan Merry-Go-Round. DiMaggio had a minor speaking role in the film; Arnold had no lines.
1 Dorothy Arnold Age:UnknownCurrent:Pearl, MSPrior:No known previous citiesKnows:Reginald Ford, Francesca E Horne, Erica Hubbard, Richard A Little, Christine L Manning, Alex Odom Sr, Meshanna Mcdowell, Jacquelyn M Thomas, Michael Smith, Aaron Jones, Deborah LathamView Full ProfileView More Details. 420 Whitepages profiles found for 'Dorothy Arnold', and 37 possible matches.
She was born as Dorothy Arnoldine Olson in Duluth, Minnesota, of Norwegian heritage. By the age of 12 was performing on amateur nights at Duluth's Lyric Theater and with the local Salvation Army Band. She graduated from Denfeld High School in 1935. Arnold met DiMaggio in 1937 – she was 19, he was 23 – on the set of Manhattan Merry-Go-Round. DiMaggio had a minor speaking role in the film; Arnold had no lines.
Dorothy Arnold works in landscape, abstraction, and figurative genres. With a constant blend of movement and a sense of a figurative presence, Arnold evokes personal memories and experiences through her paintings. The artist says, “The rhythms of nature have always influenced not only what I paint but how I paint. 
Dorothy Arnold was a nightclub singer and budding movie star when she married baseball great Joe DiMaggio in 1940. Took Joe DiMaggio to court in June 1952 to amend their divorce decree after he took their son on a date with Marilyn Monroe, claiming Monroe had DiMaggio take them to places where the boy was exposed to drinking and adult talk.
Dorothy Arnold (I) (1917–1984). Actress. Dorothy Arnold was a nightclub singer and budding movie star when she married baseball great Joe DiMaggio in 1940. She had made several films for Universal starting in 1938, but after her marriage to DiMaggio she gave up acting. Although the two divorced in 1944, Arnold did not try to resume her career and only made one other film, Lizzie (1957).
Took Joe DiMaggio to court in June 1952 to amend their divorce decree after he took their son on a date with Marilyn Monroe, claiming Monroe had DiMaggio take them to places where the boy was exposed to drinking and adult talk. She had made several films for Universal starting in 1938, but after her marriage to DiMaggio she gave up acting. Although the two divorced in 1944, Arnold did not try to resume her career and only made one other film, Lizzie (1957).
Pretty young heiress Dorothy Arnold vanished into thin air from Fifth Avenue and 27th Street, one of the busiest street corners in the world. Hundreds of people surrounded her on that bleak winter morning and yet no one saw anything. She simply disappeared without a trace -- never to be heard from again. As the publicity began to spread, reports of Dorothy sightings began coming in from all over the country. She was recognized in hundreds of cities but all of the reports turned out to be false. Francis Arnold spent more than $100,000 trying to recover his daughter, but it all amounted to nothing.
Dorothy Arnold was an American film actress and the first wife of baseball star Joe DiMaggio. Her 20-year movie career began with 1937’s Freshies and ended with 1957’s Lizzie. 'Da DiMaggio seine erste Frau Dorothy Arnold bereits in der Kirche gehelicht hatte, verweigerte man ihm den kirchlichen Segen. DiMaggio und Monroe liessen ließen also Ihrer fantasie Freien. Lauf nach Der hochzeit Im rathaus Von San francisco behielten sie'. ihre