Step 1. Wait for at least 72 hours after filing electronically or three weeks after mailing your return and then use the Where's My Refund tool on the IRS website or call the Refund Hotline at 1-800–829–1954 for automated information about your tax return. The Internal Revenue Service can accept your tax return within 72 hours of e-filing or within three weeks for a paper return. You will receive an email notification that your return has been received within 24 hours of your electronic submission.
1 57% - How long does it take for refund aafter approved and go through treasury department will you have your refund? 2  33% - How long after the state of mn accepts your tax return before you receive your refund? 1. 3. The first step the IRS will take is to process your tax return. Once your tax return is ACCEPTED, you should receive your refund if direct deposited within approximately 21 days from the date ACCEPTED.
Report Abuse. We filed 1/16. The refund was accepted 2/1. I'm still waiting for it to be approved. I went through H&R Block...they state it's in the hands of the IRS, and the IRS won't talk to anyone unless it's been 21 days. I know people who have filed in February and have already gotten theirs. Okay so according to that chart that someone posted The IRS approves between certain dates for instance we filed on the 2nd and was accepted on the 2nd, so we should be approved sometime between the 2nd and the 8th with a DDD of Feb 13th. Depending on how long the bank takes I am sure it will be longer.
1. The tax return processing is depending on how you filed your tax, If you used e-Filing to send the file it should be received and reviewed within 24 hours. But the approval of refund will depend if you have errors, incomplete information and others that will cause delay. 1 50% - How long from the time my return is accepted to the refund is approved? 2  21% - My refund was accepted on 1/28 and it is still processing today 2/26. why is this taking so long is something wrong?
You might learn that the IRS has accepted your income tax return within days of filing or after a few weeks, depending on how you file. The Internal Revenue Service can accept your tax return within 72 hours of e-filing or within three weeks for a paper return. You will receive an email notification that your return has been received within 24 hours of your electronic submission. The Where's My Refund tool on the IRS website allows you to check the status of your tax refund, including the date that it was accepted
1 63% - Do you know how long does it ake for the irs to approve my 2012-2013 refund? 2  32% - How long once the irs has accepted my refund and is processing it will the refund be loanded onto my card? 3  51% - Why is it taken so long for my tax refund i filed on the 5 & got accepted? 1 50% - How long from the time my return is accepted to the refund is approved? 2  21% - My refund was accepted on 1/28 and it is still processing today 2/26. why is this taking so long is something wrong?
1 Return Received Notice within 24 – 48 hours after e-file – The IRS Where’s My Refund tool will show “Return Received” status once they begin processing your tax return. 2  You will not see a refund date until the IRS finishes processing your tax return and approves your tax refund. You can even check your status on the go from your mobile device using TurboTax free app MyTaxRefund. If you haven’t e-filed your taxes yet, you can start today. You may even be able to e-file your federal tax return for free and have your biggest tax refund in your pocket within 21 days.
Once your tax return has been accepted by the IRS, you can track the status of your refund by logging into your MyTurboTax account or checking the IRS Where’s My Refund Tool. IRS Update: The IRS announced today that they are experiencing high traffic on their Where’s My Refund Tool. This notification could take up to 48 hours. The IRS estimates that you should receive your tax refund within 21 days of your return being accepted. The IRS issued more than 9 out of 10 refunds in less than 21 days last year and expects the same results this year.
We know how important your tax refund is to you. Good news, the IRS started processing tax returns on January 30th. Returns will be processed in the order they were submitted and as soon as your tax return is accepted, we will notify you by email. This notification could take up to 48 hours. The IRS estimates that you should receive your tax refund within 21 days of your return being accepted. The IRS issued more than 9 out of 10 refunds in less than 21 days last year and expects the same results this year.