Which kingdom has organisms that are eukaryotic, multicellular, heterotrophic, can reproduce sexually or asexually, and have NO CELL WALL? Mammals, amphibians, reptiles, birds, fish, mollusks, and insects are all included in this kingdom. Which kingdom has organisms that are prokaryotic, unicellular, can be autotrophs or heterotrophs, reproduce asexually, and have a cell wall made of peptidoglycan? Organisms in this kingdom can live in EXTREME environments.
Which kingdom has organisms that are eukaryotic, can be multicellular or unicellular, autotrophic or heterotrophic, reproduce sexually or asexually, and have cell walls made of a variety of different things? These organisms are the oddballs of the scientific world. Which kingdom has organisms that are prokaryotic, unicellular, can be autotrophs or heterotrophs, reproduce asexually, and have a cell wall made of peptidoglycan? Organisms in this kingdom can live in EXTREME environments.
The kingdom of protists has both heterotrophs, autotrophs, and uni/multicellular organisms. 1 Electrical impulses are sent along the nervous system to and from the brain that regulate all movement. 2  The brain and the nerv…. 3  The Life of Brown Algae in Your Aquarium Your aquarium can host a multitude of enjoyable
A eukaryote (/juːˈkaeri.juːˈkæri/ oʊt /or/ juːˈkaeriət-JUːˈKæRIəT-yoo-karr ee oht-OR-yoo-karr) ee ət is any organism whose cells contain a nucleus and other organelles enclosed. Within membranes eukaryotes belong to The taxon Eukarya. or eukaryota Eukaryotes belong to the taxon Eukarya or Eukaryota. The defining feature that sets eukaryotic cells apart from prokaryotic cells (Bacteria and Archaea) is that they have membrane-bound organelles, especially the nucleus, which contains the genetic material, and is enclosed by the nuclear envelope.
The plantae kingdom has organisms that are multicellular, eukaryotic, and autotrophic. 1 Electrical impulses are sent along the nervous system to and from the brain that regulate all movement. 2  The brain and the nerv…. 3  The Life of Brown Algae in Your Aquarium Your aquarium can host a multitude of enjoyable organisms.
emdjay23. An organism has the following characteristics: cell wall, autotrophic, unicellular, and eukaryotic. The kingdom does it most likely belong in: Protista. An organism has the following characteristics: cell wall, autotrophic, unicellular, and eukaryotic. What kingdom does it most likely belong in? (More). Question. Not Answered.
Which kingdom has organisms that are eukaryotic, can be multicellular or unicellular, reproduce sexually and asexually, and have cell walls made of chitin? Organisms in this kingdom include mushrooms, molds, and yeasts. Which kingdom has organisms that are prokaryotic, unicellular, can be autotrophs or heterotrophs, reproduce asexually, and have a cell wall made of peptidoglycan? Organisms in this kingdom can live in EXTREME environments.
Eukaryotic cells also contain other membrane-bound organelles such as mitochondria and the Golgi apparatus. In addition, plants and algae contain chloroplasts. Eukaryotic organisms may be unicellular, or multicellular. Only eukaryotes have many kinds of tissue made up of different cell types. Eukaryotes belong to the taxon Eukarya or Eukaryota. The defining feature that sets eukaryotic cells apart from prokaryotic cells (Bacteria and Archaea) is that they have membrane-bound organelles, especially the nucleus, which contains the genetic material, and is enclosed by the nuclear envelope.