Types of Sanctions. Trade sanctions are the most common kind and are the least onerous. They could be revocation of preferential treatment such as Most Favored Nation (MFN) status or import quotas against a country not abiding by agreed international rules of trade. Economic sanctions are punitive in nature and meant to isolate the target. Famous Examples of Sanctions. The boycott and near isolation of South Africa because of its former apartheid policy separating the races is a famous example of economic sanctions. US companies divested themselves of South African assets in the 1980s.
The most common types of UN sanctions, which are binding on all member states, are asset freezes, travel bans, and arms embargoes. UN sanctions regimes, including most of the sixteen in place in early 2015 (the most in history), are typically managed by a special committee and a monitoring group. 1 Sanctions often evolve over time. 2  A classic illustration of this is the U.S. regime on Iran. 3  Except for a brief period in the 1980s, Washington has had sanctions on Tehran since U.S. hostages were taken in 1979. 4  However, the scope of these measures and the logic behind them have changed dramatically.
A sanction is a penalty levied on another country, or on individual citizens of another country. It is an instrument of foreign policy and economic pressure that can be described as a sort of carrot-and-stick approach to dealing with international trade and politics. 
Economic sanctions are not necessarily imposed because of economic circumstances — they may also be imposed for a variety of political and social issues. Economic sanctions can be used for achieving domestic political gain. Regime change is the most frequent foreign policy objective of economic sanctions. There is controversy over the effectiveness of economic sanctions in their ability to achieve the stated purpose.
1 Diplomatic sanctions-the reduction or removal of diplomatic ties, such as embassies. 2  Economic sanctions-typically a ban on trade, possibly limited to certain sectors such as armaments, or with certain exceptions (such as food and medicine). 3  Military sanctions-military intervention. Economic sanctions can vary from imposing import duties on goods from, or blocking the export of certain goods to the target country, to a full naval blockade of the target's ports in an effort to verify, and curb or block specified imported goods.
Economic sanctions are domestic penalties applied unilaterally by one country (or multilaterally, by a group of countries) on another country (or group of countries). Economic sanctions may include various forms of trade barriers and restrictions on financial transactions. Regime change is the most frequent foreign policy objective of economic sanctions. There is controversy over the effectiveness of economic sanctions in their ability to achieve the stated purpose.
The United States has two sorts of sanctions in its arsenal: trade and economic. Trade sanctions remove what the government calls preference programs--basic privileges, like Most Favored Nation trade status or Import-Export Bank loans, given to all friendly countries. But economic sanctions come at a cost to innocents and U.S. companies. The United Nations has warned that 3 million people in Iraq may starve because of the embargo--yet Saddam Hussein not only survives but continues to provoke the United States.
Introduction. Governments and multinational bodies impose economic sanctions to try to alter the strategic decisions of state and non-state actors that threaten their interests or violate international norms of behavior. 1 Sanctions often evolve over time. 2  A classic illustration of this is the U.S. regime on Iran. 3  Except for a brief period in the 1980s, Washington has had sanctions on Tehran since U.S. hostages were taken in 1979. 4  However, the scope of these measures and the logic behind them have changed dramatically.
Economic sanctions are used as a tool of foreign policy by many governments. Economic sanctions are usually imposed by a larger country upon a smaller country for one of two reasons – either the latter is a threat to the security of the former nation or that country treats its citizens unfairly. Regime change is the most frequent foreign policy objective of economic sanctions. There is controversy over the effectiveness of economic sanctions in their ability to achieve the stated purpose.