Photo Credit Sarah Vantassel/Demand Media. Place the pan in the oven and allow the corn dogs to cook for the time listed on the package. Most corn dogs will be fully cooked in 15 to 18 minutes. Remove the corn dogs from the oven and serve immediately. 
Preheat oven to 350 degrees F. Place corn husks directly on the oven rack and roast for 30 minutes or until corn is soft. Peel down the husks and use as a handle when eating. Recipe courtesy of Tyler Florence. 
Cooking the Dog. Place the pan of oven-ready hot dogs in the toaster oven. Cook the hot dogs for 3 to 4 minutes, then open the oven and carefully turn the dogs with tongs. Set the timer for 3 to 4 minutes to finish cooking. Remove the pan of hot dogs from the oven. Toast the buns on the toaster oven rack, if desired. A toaster oven also makes crispy-outside, juicy-inside frozen corn dogs. Preheat the oven, line the oven pan with foil, and place 1 or 2 frozen corn dogs in the toaster oven. To make mini corn dogs, scatter a few on the pan so they are not touching.
Turn on the oven function of the toaster oven and set the temp to about 375 degrees. Clean the sweet potato and poke some holes in it with a fork so the steam pressure doesn't … cause it to explode. Put it in the toaster oven to cook for at least 20 minutes and then check it by poking it to see how soft or firm it is. It needs to be pretty soft so if it's not, put it back in for another 10 minutes and then check it again. Repeat until it reaches desired donenes
The breading on corn dogs cooked in the microwave ends up being chewy in a bad way, and the hot dog is often cracked and/or dried out. But a corn dog cooked in my Breville BOV800XL toaster oven was a completely different animal! The breading was crunchy on the outside and soft on the inside. The hot dog was hot, but not at all dry. Today I was getting hungry and pulled out a frozen corn dog from the freezer. I started to put it in the microwave to cook, as I always do, when I stopped. At that very moment it dawned on me that I could cook it in the toaster oven, and I wondered how it would taste when compared to being cooked in the microwave.
Next, place the corn dogs in the oven and heat every snack for 70 seconds. The best method is to cook the frozen corn dogs in the conventional oven by baking them. Preheat your oven to 375 degrees F and bake the frozen corn dogs for 16 to 20 minutes in the middle rack, placed on a baking sheet. For that perfect county fair taste, try cooking frozen corn dogs in the deep fat fryer. For microwaving thawed corn dogs, heat them for 30 to 45 seconds at a high temperature. For baking them in conventional oven, cook the corn dogs for 10 to 12 minutes. In deep fryer, the timing is halved from 8 minutes to 4 minutes when you are cooking thawed corn dogs. Cooking frozen corn dogs in innovative ways
When I was growing up my mom cooked us corn dogs for lunch. She cooked the dogs in the microwave. This was just fine because I did not know any other way of cooking it. When I grew up a corn dog was cooked for me in the oven. What a difference. The oven gets the out side batter crispy. Now I had a problem. From then on when I wanted a corn dog I wanted it to be crispy but I did not want to have to wait the 15 minutes that the oven requires. There had to be a better way. Well hear it is.
1 Preheat oven to 400 degrees. 2  With a knife make a slice about half way through the hot dog. 3  Place on baking sheet. 4  Cook for 15 minutes until hot dog is starting to curl and browned. 5  If a browner hot dog is desired turn on broiler and brown to liking. Directions. 1 