Babinski reflex is one of the normal reflexes in infants. Reflexes are responses that occur when the body receives a certain stimulus. The Babinski reflex occurs after the sole of the foot has been firmly stroked. The big toe then moves upward or toward the top surface of the foot. The other toes fan out. 
Primitive reflexes are reflex actions originating in the central nervous system that are exhibited by normal infants, but not neurologically intact adults, in response to particular stimuli. These reflexes are absent due to the development of the frontal lobes as a child transitions normally into child development. 
To evoke the Babinski reflex, the sole of the foot between the heel and the toe is firmly stroked with a hard tool or a thumb. In infants, this could cause the big toe to extend, pushing outwards, and often the small toes will accompany it in a splaying motion. By age two, the reflex should disappear. In children and adults, the appearance of this reflex is a sign of a neurological disorder which may affect the brain or spinal cord, and it usually precedes the development of more severe neurological symptoms.
Article. Figure 1 As a 5-month-old infant and his 30-month-old brother sat together for an informal portrait, the pressure of the infant's right great toe against his left sole induced reflex dorsiflexion of the left great toe. This reflex phenomenon constitutes one of the most famous signs in medicine: the Babinski reflex. The Babinski reflex is present in normal newborn infants and disappears as the central nervous system matures. Persistence of the reflex after the age of three years or its reappearance in later life indicates dysfunction of the pyramidal tract. 
Reflexes are responses that occur when the body receives a certain stimulus. The Babinski reflex occurs after the sole of the foot has been firmly stroked. The big toe then moves upward or toward the top surface of the foot. The other toes fan out. When the Babinski reflex is present in a child older than 2 years or in an adult, it is often a sign of a brain or nervous system disorder. Disorders may include: 1  Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (Lou Gehrig disease). 2  Brain tumor or injury. 3  Meningitis. 4  Multiple sclerosis. 5  Spinal cord injury, defect, or tumor. 6  Stroke.
These 10 animal facts will amaze you. The Babinski reflex or plantar reflex is a reflex which occurs in infants when the sole of the foot is firmly stroked. By age two, the reflex should disappear. In children and adults, the appearance of this reflex is a sign of a neurological disorder which may affect the brain or spinal cord, and it usually precedes the development of more severe neurological symptoms.
The following are some of the normal reflexes seen in newborn babies: Root reflex. This reflex begins when the corner of the baby's mouth is stroked or touched. The baby will turn his or her head and open his or her mouth to follow and root in the direction of the stroking. This helps the baby find the breast or bottle to begin feeding.
The plantar reflex is a reflex elicited when the sole of the foot is stimulated with a blunt instrument. The reflex can take one of two forms. In normal adults the plantar reflex causes a downward response of the hallux (flexion). An upward response (extension) of the hallux is known as the Koch sign, or as the Babinski response or Babinski sign, named after the neurologist Joseph Babinski.
A finger or artificial nipple is placed in the newborn's mouth, and he does what comes naturally. Babinski reflex or sign. A finger is stroked firmly down the outer edge of the baby's sole; the toes spread and extend out. 