1 In The Avengers, Stark's arc reactor prevents Loki from taking control of his mind. 2  In Iron Man 3, Tony finally undergoes surgery to remove the shrapnel embedded near his heart by Dr. Wu along with the arc reactor. 3  After Tony drops his no longer needed arc reactor into the sea.
Iron Man 2 Edit. The palladium in the reactor is slowly poisoning Tony to death. He has created arc reactors to power all of his suits, allowing James Rhodes to steal the Mark II suit and turn it into War Machine.
The reactor isn't powerful enough to power the suit for long so Tony has Pepper overload the Large Arc Reactor, creating an energy surge and explosion that kills Stane and destroys the Mark II reactor while the Mark I runs out of power. Tony later creates the Mark III reactor to replace his destroyed Mark II.
“Avengers: Age of Ultron” star Robert Downey Jr. claims the film will be a big turning point for his character Tony Stark. In an interview with Marvel.com, Downey Jr. explained how removing the ARC Reactor from his chest in the end of the third “Iron Man” film has changed Stark’s perspective on the world.
“I thought that the third Iron Man was about [Tony] transcending his dependence on the merits of continuing to wear your wound,” Downey Jr. told Marvel.com. “That was what [director] Shane [Black] and I thought was the real win, that he throws that thing that had become a dependency away.
Iron Man (real name Anthony Tony Edward Stark) is a widely-known superhero and a founding member of the Avengers. A brilliant inventor, he designed the revolutionary Iron Man Armor, a high-tech exosuit powered by the Arc Reactor in his chest.
1 The new arc reactor is extremely powerful. 2  In The Avengers, Stark's arc reactor prevents Loki from taking control of his mind. 3  In Iron Man 3, Tony finally undergoes surgery to remove the shrapnel embedded near his heart by Dr. Wu along with the arc reactor.
Using it, he succeeds in escaping and later upgrades to the Mark II version while the Mark I is framed by Pepper Potts as proof that Tony does have a heart. Tony uses the new arc reactor to power his Mark II and Mark III suits, but has it stolen by Obadiah Stane to power his own Iron Monger suit. Tony reclaims his Mark I reactor and uses it to power the Mark III in battle against Iron Monger.