Tennis court maintenance and restoring. we clean and restore any synthetic grass for football, baseball, we removed all moss, algua, debris from the carpet. your tennis court will look like a new one again. see my web site Under: www.tennisrepair.com. Julien Jomphe. 
Maintenance on a grass tennis court can be quite costly. If will also require a bit of time and dedication to keep the grass tennis court up to playing standards. 1  Mowing a grass tennis court is very important for maintenance. 2  Any grass mower will do the trick. 3  If you have just one tennis court a lawn mower would suffice.
Set the nozzle to a medium-fine spray and gently water the courts. Avoid over watering and forming puddles on the court. Also avoid spraying the water too hard, which can cause the courts to erode. Roll the courts using the court roller. This helps compact the clay and reduce erosion.
Although grass courts are more traditional than other types of tennis courts, maintenance costs of grass courts are higher than those of hard courts and clay courts. Grass courts (in the absence of suitable covers) must be left for the day if rain appears, as the grass becomes very slippery when wet. 
1 In order to maintain a grass tennis court you will need water. 2  Make sure to water your grass tennis court every single day for good maintenance. 3  You should water the grass tennis court after every use. 4  So if you play on the tennis court that day. 5  You will water the grass tennis court twice. If will also require a bit of time and dedication to keep the grass tennis court up to playing standards. 1  Mowing a grass tennis court is very important for maintenance. 2  Any grass mower will do the trick. 3  If you have just one tennis court a lawn mower would suffice.
There are two main types of tennis court, grass and clay. The clay courts can then be divided into natural clay, hard courts and fast/dry courts. All tennis courts should ideally be a little west of true north to ensure minimum problems from sunlight. 1  Grass courts. 1 Clay courts require water to keep from cracking. 2  This limits their use in both very dry regions. 3  At the other extreme, in countries like the United Kingdom with very wet seasons, a clay court may be unplayable for long periods and may also give rise to expensive maintenance at the start of the season.
1 Use a steamroller to make sure the tennis surface is firm. 2  A grass tennis court is not suppose to be as soft as normal grass. 3  To maintain your grass tennis court, steamroll the grass tennis court once a week. 4  You can purchase or rent a steamroller at any hardware store. If will also require a bit of time and dedication to keep the grass tennis court up to playing standards. 1  Mowing a grass tennis court is very important for maintenance. 2  Any grass mower will do the trick. 3  If you have just one tennis court a lawn mower would suffice.
1 When you build a professional tennis court in your backyard, you will first need to determine if you have the appropriate space. 2  A professional tennis court should be 78 feet long and 36 feet wide. 3  Also, most courts have additional space on all sides. 1 A steam roller. 2  Paint. 3  When you build a professional tennis court in your backyard, you will first need to determine if you have the appropriate space. 4  A professional tennis court should be 78 feet long and 36 feet wide. 5
1 To maintain your grass tennis court, steamroll the grass tennis court once a week. 2  You can purchase or rent a steamroller at any hardware store. 3  In order to maintain a grass tennis court you will need water. 4  Make sure to water your grass tennis court every single day for good maintenance. If will also require a bit of time and dedication to keep the grass tennis court up to playing standards. 1  Mowing a grass tennis court is very important for maintenance. 2  Any grass mower will do the trick. 3  If you have just one tennis court a lawn mower would suffice.
1 A professional tennis court should be 78 feet long and 36 feet wide. 2  Also, most courts have additional space on all sides. 3  This allows for players to freely move and run. 4  With this in mind, the total available playing area should be around 60 feet wide and 120 feet long. 1 A steam roller. 2  Paint. 3  When you build a professional tennis court in your backyard, you will first need to determine if you have the appropriate space. 4  A professional tennis court should be 78 feet long and 36 feet wide. 5