SSI. The SSI program currently pays a maximum benefit of $733 a month if you are single or $1,100 a month for a couple. This is the total amount you are eligible to receive, but it will be reduced by certain other benefits or income you may receive. If you earn less than the SGA (for 2015, it's $1,090 per month), your monthly benefits won't be impacted. If you earn more than that amount, Social Security will give you a trial work period of nine months to see if your return to work will be permanent.
(Any benefits paid to a surviving divorced spouse based on disability or age won't count toward this maximum amount.). Note: Although you can use our benefit calculators to see how much your survivors could receive on your record, you cannot use them to calculate your potential benefits on someone else's record. Your survivor benefit amount would be based on the earnings of the person who died. The more he or she paid into Social Security, the higher your benefits would be. The monthly amount you would get is a percentage of the deceased's basic Social Security benefit. It depends on your age and the type of benefit you would be eligible to receive
For a surviving spouse’s benefit, the age of the surviving spouse used to determine if benefits are paid early or at full retirement age (FRA). If the benefit is paid early, say age 62, there will be an actuarial reduction. 
You may collect up to 52 weeks of full DI benefits, or the amount of wages in your base period, whichever is less. You may be paid for periods longer than 52 weeks if your benefits are reduced because you returned to work on a part-time basis, or if you received other money during your disability claim period. 
In this case, your widow(er)'s benefits are not reduced for those months below 75 percent of the deceased spouse's primary insurance amount; or. The deceased worker was entitled to a reduced retirement benefit for the month before the month he or she died. See §§ 723 - 725 for an explanation of how the reduced rate is computed; You choose to receive and are paid a reduced widow(er)'s benefit for months before you reach retirement age. A reduced benefit rate is payable for as long as you are entitled to widow(er)'s benefits. For a possible adjustment at age 62 and retirement age, see § 728; Note: Entitlement to this reduced rate may result in a reduction in any disability or retirement insurance benefit to which you may later become entitl
Social Security applies a formula to your average lifetime earnings to calculate the amount of your monthly check. The average SSD payment is currently $1,165. The highest dollar amount you can receive from SSD monthly in 2015 is $2,663. If you earn less than the SGA (for 2015, it's $1,090 per month), your monthly benefits won't be impacted. If you earn more than that amount, Social Security will give you a trial work period of nine months to see if your return to work will be permanent.
The maximum survivors benefit amount is limited to what he or she would receive if they were still alive. These are examples of the benefits that survivors may receive: 1  Widow or widower, full retirement age or older -- 100 percent of the deceased worker's benefit amount; Your survivor benefit amount would be based on the earnings of the person who died. The more he or she paid into Social Security, the higher your benefits would be. The monthly amount you would get is a percentage of the deceased's basic Social Security benefit. It depends on your age and the type of benefit you would be eligible to receive.
The amount of your benefit is based on the earnings of the person who died. The more s/he paid into Social Security, the higher your benefits will be. The amount you will get is a percentage of the deceased's basic Social Security benefit. The percentage depends on your age and the type of benefit for which you are eligible. Under a special rule, benefits can be paid to your children and your spouse who is caring for your children, even if you do not have the number of credits required. They can receive benefits if you have credit for one and a half years of work in the three years prior to your death.