Fry your bacon and measure 4 tablespoons of the fat into the gravy pan. Add 4 tablespoons of flour, fry until light brown. Add 2 cups of milk, or 1 cup milk and 1 cup water, stir until thickened to desired consistency. Pot Roast or Ham Gravy. This is the traditional brown gravy you make from the juices of a pot roast or a whole ham cooked in your oven or in a crockpot.
Place pan on stove on medium high heat. Pour off all but 2 Tbsp of the drippings in the pan. 2 Into the 2 tablespoons of drippings in the pan stir in 1 to 2 tablespoons of flour. Stir with a wire whisk until the flour has thickened and the gravy is smooth. Continue to cook slowly to brown the flour, and stir constantly. Place pan on stove on medium high heat. Pour off all but 2 Tbsp of the drippings in the pan. 2 Dissolve 2 Tbsp of corn starch in the minimum amount of water needed to make a thin paste-about 1/4 cup. Pour into pan with drippings and use a wire whisk or spatula (as pictured) to blend into the drippings. 3 Stir with a wire whisk until the gravy begins to thicken. As it thickens, slowly add water, stock, milk, or cream, or some combination to the pan
Add the water and flour or cornstarch mixture to the gravy. Don’t pour it in all at once, make sure you do this very gradually. Pour a little bit, stir, and then pour some more. Continue this process until all of your mixture is in the gravy. 
1 Sprinkle the flour over drippings; cook and stir over medium heat until brown. 2  Gradually stir in milk, whisking with a fork to scrape up all of the meaty bits from the pan, then gradually whisk in the water. 3  Increase the heat to medium-high, and cook, stirring constantly, until the gravy thickens, about 10 minutes. 
Directions. 1  Add water to the chicken drippings to make about 1 1/2 cups of liquid in the bottom of the roaster. 2  Whisk water into the flour until it is thick, but not pasty. 3  Whisk the flour/water mixture into the drippings, and put the roaster on the stove over medium heat. 1 Whisk the flour/water mixture into the drippings, and put the roaster on the stove over medium heat. 2  Stir constantly until mixture is thickened and bubbly. 3  Add salt and pepper to taste.
1 Add water to the chicken drippings to make about 1 1/2 cups of liquid in the bottom of the roaster. 2  Whisk water into the flour until it is thick, but not pasty. 3  Whisk the flour/water mixture into the drippings, and put the roaster on the stove over medium heat. 4  Stir constantly until mixture is thickened and bubbly. 1 Whisk the flour/water mixture into the drippings, and put the roaster on the stove over medium heat. 2  Stir constantly until mixture is thickened and bubbly. 3  Add salt and pepper to taste.
Thin gravy: 1 tbsp oil or butter, 1 tbsp flour, 1 cup liquid. Medium gravy: 2 tbsp oil or butter, 2 tbsp flour, 1 cup liquid. Thick: 1/4 cup oil or butter, 1/4 cup flour, 1 cup milk. Roux Rules: Put the oil in a pan, add the flour to it, and stir it so the flour and butter or oil are thoroughly mixed. This mixture of oil and flour is known in the trade as the ROUX, which is pronounced ROO. Add 4 tablespoons of flour, fry until light brown. Add 2 cups of milk, or 1 cup milk and 1 cup water, stir until thickened to desired consistency. Pot Roast or Ham Gravy. This is the traditional brown gravy you make from the juices of a pot roast or a whole ham cooked in your oven or in a crockpot.
Report Abuse. melt some butter in the saucepan. aside, whisk water (or milk) with flour. pour into the saucepan and whisk. add salt and pepper. add flour and water to thicken, but keep tasting so you won't have a floury taste. you can also use the drippings from steak, bacon, etc. instead of the butter. Shooting Star · 4 years ago. That isn't gravy, that is flour water. You need fat of some kind to make a roux. Equal parts butter, bacon fat, oil etc... and flour. Cook for 2-3 minutes on low, add water and black pepper. Happiest in the kitchen.