Report Abuse. ATP-The Energy Currency Of The Cell All activities inside a living cell need energy which is available in the form of ATP as the immediate source.Hence,this chemical compound ATP is described as The Energy Currency of the cell. 
ATP (Adenosine triphosphate). 1  It is the major energy currency of the cell, providing the energy for most of the energy-consuming activities of the cell. 2  It is one of the monomers used in the synthesis of RNA and, after conversion to deoxyATP (dATP), DNA. 3  It regulates many biochemical pathways. 
The bond between the terminal phosphate and the second phosphate is a high-energy bond. When it is broken (ATP is turned into ADP) this energy is released and can be harnessed by the cell. During the breakdown of sugars in the body, the energy from the sugars are stored in ATP molecules which can be used later. Because it is responsible for the transfer of energy from one set of biochemical reactions to another. Gtp and Utp are sometimes also used. Atp delivers energy wherever ener … gy is needed in the Cell. Atp (Adenosine tri-phosphate) is a molecule that can store energy. The bond between the terminal phosphate and the second phosphate is a high-energy bond. When it is broken (Atp is turned into Adp and Pi) this energy is released and can be harnessed by the Cell. During the breakdown of sugars in the body, the energy from the sugars are stored in Atp
Free Energy from Hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the energy currency of life and it provides that energy for most biological processes by being converted to ADP (adenosine diphosphate). Since the basic reaction involves a water molecule, this reaction is commonly referred to as the hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine Triphosphate. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is considered by biologists to be the energy currency of life. It is the high-energy molecule that stores the energy we need to do just about everything we do.
ATP is a complex nanomachine that serves as the primary energy currency of the cell (Trefil, 1992, p.93). A nanomachine is a complex precision microscopic-sized machine that fits the standard definition of a machine. ATP is the most widely distributed high-energy compound within the human body (Ritter, 1996, p. 301). The major energy currency molecule of the cell, ATP, is evaluated in the context of creationism. This complex molecule is critical for all life from the simplest to the most complex. It is only one of millions of enormously intricate nanomachines that needs to have been designed in order for life to exist on earth.
Conversion from ATP to ADP. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is the energy currency of life and it provides that energy for most biological processes by being converted to ADP (adenosine diphosphate). Since the basic reaction involves a water molecule, this reaction is commonly referred to as the hydrolysis of ATP. Adenosine Triphosphate. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is considered by biologists to be the energy currency of life. It is the high-energy molecule that stores the energy we need to do just about everything we do.
ATP. Adenosine 5'-triphosphate, or ATP, is the principal molecule for storing and transferring energy in cells. It is often referred to as the energy currency of the cell and can be compared to storing money in a bank. ATP can be used to store energy for future reactions or be withdrawn to pay for reactions when energy is required by the cell.
Atp delivers energy wherever energy is needed in the Cell. Atp (Adenosine tri-phosphate) is a molecule that can store energy. The bond between the terminal phosphate and the second phosphate is a high-energy bond. When it is broken (Atp is turned into Adp and Pi) this energy is released and can be harnessed by the Cell. During the breakdown of sugars in the body, the energy from the sugars are stored in Atp molecules which can be used later. Some of this … energy is used to produce ATP.It shows that ATP is the common energy currency of cell. When cells require energy, they spend ATP for that. ATP is composed of adenine with three phosphate groups.