Lymph nodes become swollen in response to illness, infection, or stress. Swollen lymph nodes are one sign that your lymphatic system is working to rid your body of the responsible agents. Swollen lymph glands in the head and neck are normally caused by illnesses such as: 1  ear infection. 
The most common cause of swollen lymph nodes is an infection, particularly a viral infection, such as the common cold. However, there are other types of infections, including parasitic and bacterial, and other possible causes of swollen lymph nodes. They include: Lymph nodes are located in groups, and each group drains a specific area of your body. You may be more likely to notice swelling in certain areas, such as in the lymph nodes in your neck, under your chin, in your armpits and in your groin. The site of the swollen lymph nodes may help identify the underlying cause.
1 Glands in the armpit (axillary lymph nodes) may swell from an injury or infection to the arm or hand. 2  A rare cause of axillary swelling may be breast cancer or lymphoma. 3  The lymph nodes in the groin (femoral or inguinal lymph nodes) may swell from an injury or infection in the foot, leg, groin, or genitals. 1 A rare cause of axillary swelling may be breast cancer or lymphoma. 2
The most common cause for swollen lymph nodes is some presence of infection in the body. If you have symptoms associated with swollen lymph nodes or think they may be the result of an underlying medical condition contact your health care provider. If your swollen lymph nodes are the result of a viral infection, antibiotics will not be useful, but they are a treatment option if lymph node swelling is the result of a bacterial infection. Swollen lymph nodes due to viral infections will usually resolve themselves over time.
(Redirected from Swollen lymph nodes). Lymphadenopathy or lymphadenitis refers to lymph nodes which are abnormal in size, number or consistency and is often used as a synonym for swollen or enlarged lymph nodes. Common causes of lymphadenopathy are infection, autoimmune disease, or malignancy. Inflammation as a cause of lymph node enlargement is known as lymphadenitis. In practice, the distinction between lymphadenopathy and lymphadenitis is rarely made.
Infections. Infections are the most common causes of swollen lymph nodes. Common infectious causes of swollen lymph nodes are viral, bacterial, parasites, and fungal. The most common cause of swollen lymph nodes is viral upper respiratory infections such as the common cold
Lymphadenitis is the medical term for an infection in one or more lymph nodes. Lymph nodes are filled with white blood cells that help your body fight off infections. When lymph nodes become infected, it's usually because an infection started somewhere else in your body. Treatment. The exact type of treatment depends on what type of infection has spread into your lymph nodes. Once an infection has spread into some lymph nodes, it can spread quickly to others and to other parts of your body, so it's important to find the cause of the infection and start treatment quickly.