And it's vitally important to your health that you know the good carb bad carb difference. The good carbs on the list of carbohydrate foods can provide your body with energy, optimum nutrition, proper brain and organ function and a healthy, attractive appearance. But bad carbs are detrimental to a healthy diet. And consistently eating from the bad carbs list will rapidly sabotage all your health and weight management goals. So choose all of your carbohydrates from this great list of healthy carbohydrate foods
Two types of carbohydrates exist: complex carbohydrates and simple carbohydrates. Complex carbohydrates take time to break down into glucose. Foods rich in complex carbohydrates and fiber are called good carbohydrates. Simple carbohydrates include sugars found in foods such as fruits and milk products and sugars added during food processing. Foods rich in white flour and added sugars are called bad carbohydrates. Whole-grain products such as brown rice, whole-grain pasta, beans, whole wheat bread, whole oats, buckwheat, millet, whole rye, whole-grain barley and whole-grain corn are considered good carbohydrates. These foods are rich in fiber, vitamins, minerals and phytonutrients that are beneficial to your health. 
Answer: Here's the short answer: Good carbs — or carbohydrates — are good for you. Bad carbs aren't. Carbohydrates that come from white bread, white rice, pastry, sugary sodas and other highly processed foods can make you fat. If you eat a lot of these so-called bad carbs, they will increase your risk for disease. On the other hand, the good carbs, including whole grains, beans, fruits and vegetables, keep you healthy by providing you with vitamins, minerals, fiber and many other nutrients. That's why a healthy diet should include good carbs
Products are full of heavily processed, refined grains (yes, bad carbs) but boast that they’re fiber-rich because wheat brain or another isolated bran has been added to them. Choose good carbs that are naturally rich in fiber over foods with added fiber. 
Such foods provide carbohydrates and calories, but few additional nutrients. Although fiber is a type of carbohydrate, it’s not digested by your body, which is beneficial for healthy weight management. Unlike bad carbs, good carbs are generally rich in fiber, which can help you feel full from consuming fewer calories. A 2005 review published in the journal “Nutrition” reports that an increased fiber intake is associated with a lower body weight and reduced body fat, and can help prevent obesity
Beneficial carbs are those that are minimally processed and rich in nutrients like fiber; examples include whole grains, fruits, vegetables and legumes. Whole grains include -- but are not limited to -- whole grain breads and cereals, brown rice, whole wheat pasta, quinoa, whole grain couscous and bulgur. Unlike bad carbs, good carbs are generally rich in fiber, which can help you feel full from consuming fewer calories.
The Good Carb Bad Carb Bottom Line Unhealthy bad carbs are filled with empty calories that have no nutritional value. And eating a diet high in bad carbohydrate foods, as most everyone does, increases your risk of heart disease, stroke, arthritis, Alzheimer's disease, diabetes and obesity. The good carbs on the list of carbohydrate foods can provide your body with energy, optimum nutrition, proper brain and organ function and a healthy, attractive appearance. But bad carbs are detrimental to a healthy diet.
Harvard School of Public Health reports that refined grains and sugars contribute to diabetes, heart disease and weight gain. Examples of bad carbs include white bread, regular pasta, white rice, sugary drinks such as sodas, pastries, candy, sweets, cookies, candy bars and ice cream. Unlike bad carbs, good carbs are generally rich in fiber, which can help you feel full from consuming fewer calories.
Good carbohydrates are an essential component of a healthy low-carb diet. While bad carb foods are tasty, they are associated with blood sugar related conditions such as insulin resistance, diabetes, hypoglycemia, and others. Moreover, foods that contain bad carbs are often loaded with preservatives, flavorings, colorings, and other additives. Additives improve desirable qualities but are associated with sudden cardiac death, inflammations, obesity, the development of tumors, and other medical problems and complications.
It gives examples of foods (e.g. pasta and rice) that contain bad carbs and such that supply good carbs, such as berries and beans. The grouping into foods that contain bad and good carbohydrates helps dieters choose products that are suitable for a healthy low-carb diet. Moreover, foods that contain bad carbs are often loaded with preservatives, flavorings, colorings, and other additives. Additives improve desirable qualities but are associated with sudden cardiac death, inflammations, obesity, the development of tumors, and other medical problems and complications.