Well ladies and gentleman I present to you Kashkeh Bademjan, also known as eggplant dip or if you want to get really fancy you can call it Dip de Aubergine, oh la la!!!! Kashkeh Bademjan is by far one of my favorite appetizers. It is a delicious blend of eggplants, garlic, and Kashk which is whey. I love eating this appetizer with lavash bread. This was my first time making it and it was actually pretty easy.
Kashk is a sort of gruel or fresh cheese. It is eaten plain, but can be used other ways. For example, it can be dissolved in water and eaten like yogurt. In western parts of Azerbaijan, it's customary to dissolve qurut in water by hand and use the sauce with xəngəl, the traditional Azerbaijani lasagna-type dish. Kashk is also mentioned in the 10th-century Persian book of poetry Shahnameh. Khoshk (Persian: خشک meaning dry) which indicates that the kashk or kishk is prepared through a drying [خشکیدن] process. Qurut or kurut means dried in Turkic languages.
Please try again later. Ingredients& recipe: 2 cups whole milk yogurt, 1 Tea spoon salt, 1 table spoon lemon juice. Add salt and lemon juice to yogurt,stir and bring it to boiling then let it cool. Now you can make your own Kashk with superior quality in your own kitchen, with the best price. 1  Music
In Turkey, kashk is a dried yoghurt product also known as keş peyniri, kurut, taş yoğurt, kuru yoğurt, or katık keşi. Its contents and production vary by region. In western and northern Turkey, especially in Bolu, the product is categorized as a cheese owing to its shape and white color. Kashk is also mentioned in the 10th-century Persian book of poetry Shahnameh. Khoshk (Persian: خشک meaning dry) which indicates that the kashk or kishk is prepared through a drying [خشکیدن] process. Qurut or kurut means dried in Turkic languages.
Kashk-e Bademjan. As promised (to several of you, in fact), here is my Kashk-e Bademjan recipe. But first, let me say a few things about this delicious dippy-spready-goodness. 1  I'm not posting a picture because, frankly, there is no way to make this stuff pretty. 2  It's just... 3  unattractive. 4  As is so much Persian food. 
This eggplant dish is called Kashk-e-Bademjan (or Joon depending on who is pronouncing it). It translates to Eggplant and Kashk (which is a type of yogurt whey). It’s a simple dish that is a huge party pleaser, when executed well. If you don’t have Kashk (or don’t have access to it), don’t fret. You can use a whole fat Greek yogurt and achieve similar results. 
By Homa 16 Comments. * Please scroll down the page for the printable recipe. Kashke Bademjan is one of the most popular Persian appetizers. Bademjan is eggplant in Farsi, and kashk is a yogurt product that traditionally is made through a long process from very firm strained yogurt. The final product is either formed into balls, or pressed through a large holed sieve into strips, and dried. 
Whey, the liquid that has been strained from cheese or yogurt during the cooking process. Kashk can be found in Persian specialty stores, or you can substitute it with sour cream. Here are some recipes with kashk: 1  Persian Eggplant Dip (Kashkeh Bademjoon). 
The salty kashk cheese is a fermented by-product from cheese making and is available from Middle Eastern grocery stores. With its strong flavour it resembles a liquid feta cheese and is lovely in this recipe mixed with the golden eggplant and dried mint. 