Best Answer: You can say Il est alle allé au, bowling or, Say il est alle allé jouer. aux quilles 1 We are experiencing some problems, please try again. 2  You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG. 3  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM. 4  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 5  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB.
In French, as in many languages, there is more than one way of saying you, and which one you choose depends not only on the grammar of your sentence but also the social situ … ation. It is used to address people you've recently met, people much older than you, or people in a formal setting. The word vous is grammatically invariable, which means it only has the one form. The word tu is used to address children, people your own age in an informal setting, your friends and your family.
Best Answer: That's impropper orthographe and grammar up there. A large bowl would be un grand bol, seeing as 'bol' is masculine. If you were looking to conjugate the verb 'prechauffer' préchauffer to the exact, 'word', preheat it would be. Prechauffe, 'préchauffé' however prechauffer préchauffer. is the verb 1 You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 2  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 3  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm).
'bowling' also found in translations in French-English dictionary. piste de bowling. piste de bowling. n. bowling alley. bowling. bowling. n. tenpin bowling. To add entries to your own vocabulary, become a member of Reverso community or login if you are already a member. Translation English-French Collins Dictionary &nbsp. See also: bowling alley, bowling green, tenpin bowling, ten-pin bowling. bowling. bowling. pr. part. faisant rouler (vt.) ; roulant (vi.)
Search also in: Web News Encyclopedia Images Context. bowl n (for eating) bol m → decorative wooden bowls → a cereal bowl → a soup bowl → a bowl of soup → a bowl of cereal (for washing up) cuvette f [+toilet] cuvette f → the toilet bowl (=ball) boule f [+pipe] fourneau m → He smacked the bowl of his pipe into his hand. ▲ bowl out vt (CRICKET) [+batsman] eliminer éliminer par lancer direct to be bowled out etre être elimine éliminé par → Un lancer direct he was bowled out 5 minutes after the. start of play
According to the Google Translator, the French word for the English word am is suis. But if your English sentence starts with I am you say it in French as  Je suis. It is used to address people you've recently met, people much older than you, or people in a formal setting. The word vous is grammatically invariable, which means it only has the one form. The word tu is used to address children, people your own age in an informal setting, your friends and your family.
1 You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 2  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm). 3  You can only upload a photo or a video. 1 We are experiencing some problems, please try again. 2  You can only upload files of type PNG, JPG, or JPEG. 3  You can only upload files of type 3GP, 3GPP, MP4, MOV, AVI, MPG, MPEG, or RM. 4  You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 5 
Best Answer: That's impropper orthographe and grammar up there. A large bowl would be un grand bol, seeing as 'bol' is masculine. If you were looking to conjugate the verb 'prechauffer' préchauffer to the exact, 'word', preheat it would be. Prechauffe, 'préchauffé' however prechauffer préchauffer. Is(the): Verb Source s speaking french. for seven years 1 You can only upload photos smaller than 5 MB. 2  You can only upload videos smaller than 600MB. 3  You can only upload a photo (png, jpg, jpeg) or a video (3gp, 3gpp, mp4, mov, avi, mpg, mpeg, rm).
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Carmen-cristina. Confidence votes 3.9K. jouer aux boules. ---. No, that's a typical traditional French pastime, whereas bowling is still called bowling, but they pronounce it Buling (stressing the last syllable). It is used to address people you've recently met, people much older than you, or people in a formal setting. The word vous is grammatically invariable, which means it only has the one form. The word tu is used to address children, people your own age in an informal setting, your friends and your family.