In terms of time to process it varies on how complete their information is sometimes it takes us 2 days for us to get a hold of a landlord out of state. Ideally we shoot for about 24 hours once we receive an application to getting a yes or no either you are approved or you are not within 24 hours. 
Answers. Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Nowadays, credit applications can and do get approved or declined in minutes. If you have a credit history or income level that is close to the line, the person who ran the application may have to have it reviewed by their supervisor to get it approved. Still, this kind of thing shouldn't take more than day. Personally, I would call late afternoon the day after it was submitted to get an update
1 So, we can usually only find out what will be available from now to 45 days from now. 2  We can check availability for you within that time frame but we can not check availability over 45 days. 3  As a rule, we like to check availability as close to the time you are going out looking as possible. 1 Most communities and landlords in this area require 30-day notices. 2  Often they need 5-10 days to make it ready for the next tenant and they will usually hold a vacant unit 2-3 weeks after it is ready. 3 
Kindly consult with your advisor before entering into any agreement. 1  Is the building pet friendly? 2  Does the building allow guarantors? 3  Do I have to pay for water? 4  What is included in the rent? 5  What are utilities? 6  What is a security deposit? 7  What are the lease terms? 8  Can I paint the walls? 9  Will the apartment be pre-wired for cable and phone lines. 10  H 1 While exceptions may apply, landlords typically require that you earn at least 40 times the monthly rent. 2  For example, if an apartment rents $1000/month, your income must meet or exceed $40,000/year. back to top.
Depending on the landlord and building, you’ll have to pay an application fee, a processing fee and sometimes a security deposit. Expect to pay as much as $100 or more per person just to apply for an apartment in some areas. If your rental application gets approved, you’ll then be able to sign the lease! Everyone living in the apartment will have to be present to sign the lease, and the co-signer will need to sign their own agreement as well.
It can take 24 to 48 hours to get approved for an apartment. Sometimes they are busy and it can take a lot longer. That is, if you receive a favorable decision. If not, you may have to … appeal for years; how many depends on the number of denials you receive. It can take up to six years or even longer.
Apartment Search Timeline. Last fall we estimated how much you’ll need to save up before you can move out. (Rule of thumb: If you save an amount equal to about 8-10% of your annual salary, you’ll be in good shape.) So by now you’ve been saving for 4-5 months, and you’re ready to make your move. But how long will it be before you’re actually set up in your new place? Here’s a timeline of the steps you’ll take. How long does actual searching for an apartment take? If it’s your very first time looking at apartments, we recommend going on at least two outings, where you look at least 2-3 apartments each time.
1 Lease signing take place within approximately 24 hours of application approval, regardless of the commencement of the lease. 2  You will be required to provide the first month's rent and the equivalent of two month's rent as a security deposit in the form of certified check, bank check, money order or cash only. 1 While exceptions may apply, landlords typically require that you earn at least 40 times the monthly rent. 2  For example, if an apartment rents $1000/month, your income must meet or exceed $40,000/year. back to top.
Generally, it takes about two days to a month to get approved for a Chase credit card. This will depend on how much of your information needs to be processed. 4 people found this useful. Edit. 
Generally, it takes about two days to a month to get approved for a Chase credit card. This will depend on how much of your information needs to be processed. That is, if you receive a favorable decision. If not, you may have to … appeal for years; how many depends on the number of denials you receive. It can take up to six years or even longer.