Pillbug species of woodlice, such as Armadillidium species, curl up into a ball when threatened. The pill millipede, Glomeris marginata, behaves in a similar way and makes a convincing imitation of a pill-type of woodlouse. The pill millipede, however, has short antennae and 17-19 pairs of legs. The largest British woodlouse is the sea slater, Ligia oceanica, which is 30mm long but the adults of most other species are 2-10mm. Some species are found throughout Britain but some species are confined to coastal or southern areas.
THE WOODLOUSE PROBLEM. Woodlice (order Isopoda) can be found throughout the UK and there are three main species, Armadillidium Vulgare or Pill Wood Louse. Oniscus asellus the Common Wood Louse is the largest of the woodlice found in the UK being up to 15mm in length. Porcellio scaber is narrow with dull, rough segments. The exoskeleton is divided into segments and the woodlice have up to 14 legs. Woodlice feed on mould growth, leaves and rotting wood, they are known to damage wallpaper which may be due to feeding on minute mould growth on the paper causing incidental damage.
There are different ways to get rid of them, some won’t harm them, while other methods involve the use of commercial chemicals which will kill them; there are of course other ‘home remedies’ which may be worth investigating if you have a woodlice problem, whether they actually work or not is questionable. They simply take advantage of what’s readily available. How to get rid of woodlice without using chemicals: 1  Sweep them up with a dust pan and brush and put them back outside, a sufficient distance away from your house, where they belong. 2  Use the nozzle attachment of your hoover and suck them up – empty the contents of your hoover bag or cylinder into the compost bin
Identification. Woodlice, also known as slaters and pillbugs, are terrestrial crustaceans. Their soft bodies are covered on the upper surface with a hard segmented shell, which is often grey but may be pinkish-brown, white, or mottled with white or yellow markings. Woodlice have seven pairs of legs and relatively long and distinct antennae. The largest British woodlouse is the sea slater, Ligia oceanica, which is 30mm long but the adults of most other species are 2-10mm. Some species are found throughout Britain but some species are confined to coastal or southern areas.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The woodlouse spider, Dysdera crocata, is a species of spider that preys exclusively upon woodlice. Other common names refer to variations on the common name of its prey, including woodlouse hunter, sowbug hunter, sowbug killer, pillbug hunter and slater spider. Woodlouse spiders hunt at night without the use of a web. Their diet consists exclusively of woodlice which—despite their tough exoskeleton —are pierced easily by the spider's large chelicerae. The courtship of these spiders is typically aggressive and mates risk injury from each oth
See what our happy customers have to say about our products and services ... Woodlice, which are not known to transmit disease, may cause superficial damage to decorations and possibly furnishing in your home. You wil have noticed that they leave a stain if you crush them on the carpet. Normally, damp areas attract woodlice but in most cases, these crustaceans enter your home by accident and are found just wandering around. The exoskeleton is divided into segments and the woodlice have up to 14 legs. Woodlice feed on mould growth, leaves and rotting wood, they are known to damage wallpaper which may be due to feeding on minute mould growth on the paper causing incidental damage.
Spiders are like any other creature, they need food and shelter. Many species have adapted to the environment indoors. One thing that will encourage spiders to enter your home is a plentiful supply of food. The eight­-legged predators feast upon insects, either by catching them in nets, hunting or ambushing them. 1 What will really make your garden attract spiders is insects. 2  And a toxic environment will for sure not be inviting. 3  Leave out a water source – most spiders are so adapted to the many environmental conditions that most of them don’t really need much water.
The woodlouse spider, Dysdera crocata, is a species of spider that preys exclusively upon woodlice. Woodlouse spiders hunt at night without the use of a web. Their diet consists exclusively of woodlice which—despite their tough exoskeleton —are pierced easily by the spider's large chelicerae. The courtship of these spiders is typically aggressive and mates risk injury from each oth