Pastas with added soluble and insoluble dietary fiber ingredients were evaluated in relation to biochemical composition, cooking properties, and textural characteristics. Results show that both the type and amount of added fiber influence the overall quality of both raw and cooked pasta. 
Dietary fiber or roughage is the indigestible portion of food derived from plants. It has two main components: 1  Soluble fiber, which dissolves in water, is readily fermented in the colon into gases and physiologically active byproducts, and can be prebiotic and viscous. Sources of insoluble fiber include: 1  whole grain foods. 2  wheat and corn bran. 3  legumes such as beans and peas. 4  nuts and seeds. 5  potato skins. 6  lignans. 7  vegetables such as green beans, cauliflower, zucchini (courgette), celery, and nopal.
Method Requirements Adoption of the definition for dietary fiber, i.e. “Dietary fiber is the remnants of the edible part of plants and analogous car-bohydrates that are resistant to digestion and absorption in the human small intestine with complete or partial fermenta-tion in the human large intestine. All nondigestible, fermentable polysaccharides, whether they are polyglucoses such as cellulose or beta-glucans, or polyfructoses such as inulin, or het-eropolymers such as arabinoxylans and arabinogalactans, or analo-gous carbohydrates, are included in the definition of dietary fiber.
Dietary fibers can act by changing the nature of the contents of the gastrointestinal tract and by changing how other nutrients and chemicals are absorbed. Some types of soluble fiber absorb water to become a gelatinous, viscous substance which is fermented by bacteria in the digestive tract. Sources of insoluble fiber include: 1  whole grain foods. 2  wheat and corn bran. 3  legumes such as beans and peas. 4  nuts and seeds. 5  potato skins. 6  lignans. 7  vegetables such as green beans, cauliflower, zucchini (courgette), celery, and nopal.
112 / MARCH 2001, VOL. 46, NO. 3 The Definition of Dietary Fiber 1 “Dietary fiber is the edible parts of plants or analogous carbohydrates that are resistant to digestion and ab-sorption in the human small intestine with complete or partial fermentation in the large intestine. All nondigestible, fermentable polysaccharides, whether they are polyglucoses such as cellulose or beta-glucans, or polyfructoses such as inulin, or het-eropolymers such as arabinoxylans and arabinogalactans, or analo-gous carbohydrates, are included in the definition of dietary fiber.
Fiber is a complex carbohydrate that consists of cellulose, pectin, gum, mucilage, hemicellulose, and lignin. You don't completely digest and absorb fiber, because you don't h … ave the enzymes required to disassemble it. For that reason, fiber accounts for less than the four Calories per gram of other carbohydrates. Fiber is considered a nutrient. It's a dietary component that is essential for good health. Your body doesn't actually breakdown insoluble fiber, so you can't absorb the … caloric content.
Soluble fiber is found in varying quantities in all plant foods, including: 1  legumes (peas, soybeans, lupins and other beans). 2  oats, rye, chia, and barley. 3  some fruits (including figs, avocados, plums, prunes, berries, ripe bananas, and the skin of apples, quinces and pears). Sources of insoluble fiber include: 1  whole grain foods. 2  wheat and corn bran. 3  legumes such as beans and peas. 4  nuts and seeds. 5  potato skins. 6  lignans. 7  vegetables such as green beans, cauliflower, zucchini (courgette), celery, and nopal.
Chemically, dietary fiber consists of non-starch polysaccharides such as arabinoxylans, cellulose, and many other plant components such as resistant starch, resistant dextrins, inulin, lignin, waxes, chitins, pectins, beta-glucans, and oligosaccharides. Sources of insoluble fiber include: 1  whole grain foods. 2  wheat and corn bran. 3  legumes such as beans and peas. 4  nuts and seeds. 5  potato skins. 6  lignans. 7  vegetables such as green beans, cauliflower, zucchini (courgette), celery, and nopal.
The result was the adoption of the final pro-posed definition “Dietary fiber is the edible parts of plants or analogous carbohydrates that are resistant to digestion and absorption in the human small intestine with complete or par-tial fermentation in the large intestine. All nondigestible, fermentable polysaccharides, whether they are polyglucoses such as cellulose or beta-glucans, or polyfructoses such as inulin, or het-eropolymers such as arabinoxylans and arabinogalactans, or analo-gous carbohydrates, are included in the definition of dietary fiber.