1 Electrical baby proofing entails items like power strip covers, cord covers, outlet or plug covers, cord shorteners. 2  These items are generally inexpensive, costing approximately $2 to $10 per item. 3  Locks and latches are intended for use on kitchen and bathroom cabinets, appliance, closet and room doors. Related articles: Car Seat, Changing Table. 1  Baby proofing a stairway area typically involves a mounted or pressure-release gate, as well as banister guards. 2  Gates cost between $60 and $105, depending on the size and type (mounted or pressure-release, plastic or wooden).
Child Proofing Service Average Costs. The principal factors affecting the cost of child proofing services are the size of your home and amount of child proofing performed. 1  If you merely want a consultation from a child proofing professional, expect to pay around $50 to $100. 2  Complete child proofing services cost approximately $300 to $1,500. Child Proofing Service Prices. The leading cause of death among children in the United States is accidental injury. Many of these fatal accidents are preventable, however, especially when parents abandon the “not my child” belief and take steps to keep their children safe.
1 Costs for professional baby proofing vary widely depending on the type of home (house, apartment or condo), size of home, and installation needs, as well as by area and availability. 2  In general, professional baby proofers either charge a flat fee or hourly fee for evaluations and consultations. Related articles: Car Seat, Changing Table. 1  Baby proofing a stairway area typically involves a mounted or pressure-release gate, as well as banister guards. 2  Gates cost between $60 and $105, depending on the size and type (mounted or pressure-release, plastic or wooden).
1 Baby proofing a stairway area typically involves a mounted or pressure-release gate, as well as banister guards. 2  Gates cost between $60 and $105, depending on the size and type (mounted or pressure-release, plastic or wooden). 3  Extra tall gates cost a little more, roughly between $80 and $120. Related articles: Car Seat, Changing Table. 1  Baby proofing a stairway area typically involves a mounted or pressure-release gate, as well as banister guards. 2  Gates cost between $60 and $105, depending on the size and type (mounted or pressure-release, plastic or wooden).
1 If you merely want a consultation from a child proofing professional, expect to pay around $50 to $100. 2  This service includes safety solution recommendations, but you are responsible for actually purchasing and installing any equipment. 3  Complete child proofing services cost approximately $300 to $1,500. Child Proofing Service Prices. The leading cause of death among children in the United States is accidental injury. Many of these fatal accidents are preventable, however, especially when parents abandon the “not my child” belief and take steps to keep their children safe.
You'll want to make sure you pick latches or locks that are sturdy enough to withstand prying hands, but that are easy to install and use. This is one of the less expensive products and should keep the average price for child proofing products in your home low. Preparing your home for children is a task that shouldn't be taken lightly. From sharp corners to electrical outlets, there's a lot to remember. It can be tough to determine how much it will cost to childproof your home considering there are so many different components.
One of the most important things is your child's safety. Baby-proofing your home not only gives you peace of mind, it also makes sure your future child isn't able to get into dangerous items around the home. There are many ways to remodel and baby-proof to keep children of all ages safe. From expensive remodeling to quick and easy plugs, consider the following baby-proofing options. Change the Paint – Older homes may still have paint on the walls that simply isn't good for babies or children. While it's easy to say that your child won't be eating the paint, there may be chips.
Kate gave birth to a baby girl on Saturday morning. While you probably won't need to empty the bank to baby-proof your own home, baby safety expert David Drutz estimates it will cost the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge approximately $29,800 to make their home in the English countryside child-friendly. When he shows the Anmer Hall estimate to clients, they scoff and say that the royals will have an army of staff to keep a watchful eye on their children. But Drutz urges even those parents with hired help to be vigilant with baby-proofing.