Lyme disease is caused by a bacteria called Borrelia burgdorferi and is spread by ticks. Ticks become infected with the bacteria by feeding on infected mice and other small animals. When an infected tick bites other animals, it can transmit the bacteria to these animals. Lyme disease is transmitted by the deer tick (blacklegged tick) and a small group of other closely related ticks. The deer tick is small and may bite animals and people without being detected. Lyme disease affects a variety of species, including dogs, cats, and people
A shield to protect humans against Lyme disease is not at hand, but a vaccine to protect dogs became available last summer. Hundreds of thousands of worried dog owners around the country have already flocked to their veterinarians to obtain it. Spread to dogs, as to humans, by infected deer ticks, Lyme disease may cause fever, lethargy, loss of appetite, painful joints and lameness. Symptoms may not appear for weeks or months, and many infected animals do not become ill.
Dogs are very susceptible to tick bites and tickborne diseases. Vaccines are not available for all the tickborne diseases that dogs can get, and they don’t keep the dogs from bringing ticks into your home. For these reasons, it’s important to use a tick preventive product on your dog. Tick bites on dogs may be hard to detect. 
Lyme disease is one of a number of frustratingly common tick-borne diseases that are regarded by both veterinarians and human physicians as stubborn, insidious, and just plain problematic. In dogs, the disease causes tiredness, fever, joint pain, and loss of appetite. 1 For older puppies (older than 16 weeks of age) or adults receiving the Lyme vaccine for the first time, two doses two to four weeks apart are recommended. 2  Annual revaccination just prior to tick season is recommended for dogs at a sustained risk of exposure to the Lyme disease-causing organism.
Lyme vaccine is an immunization that helps prevent Lyme disease from being passed to your dog. Lyme disease is caused by a spirochete bacterial strain called Borrelia burgdorferi that passes to your dog through the bite of certain types of ticks. While Lyme disease can be passed to your dog, Lyme vaccine typically is not recommended unless you live in an area with a high tick population. Treatment for Lyme disease is easy and relatively inexpensive, compared to the complications your dog is exposed to if vaccinated against the disease.
Vaccination against Lyme disease in dogs is only usually suggested by veterinarians for dogs living in Lyme-endemic areas or those who are travelling to such areas. This is due to the fact that the Lyme vaccine is not 100% effective and problems may occur with over-vaccination of dogs. The Lyme disease vaccine for dogs is only thought to be about 60-70% effective, with some dogs going on to develop Lyme disease even after vaccination. This may be due to the rapid rate of hybridization that occurs in the bacteria that cause the disease.
Lyme Killed. LymeVax Canine Lyme Disease Vaccine is for protection against Borrelia burgdorferi or Lyme disease. Lyme Vax is for dogs 9 weeks of age or older. Give 1 ml Lyme Vax SQ. Repeat in 2-3 weeks and once annually. Order syringes separately. 
Several vaccines are available to help prevent disease caused by Borrelia burgdorferi, the Lyme disease organism. An initial vaccination is followed by a booster vaccine 2 to 4 weeks later (in accordance with label recommendations) and annual boosters as long as the risk for disease exposure remains. 1 Even dogs that receive year-round tick control products and don’t spend a lot of time outside may be at risk for exposure to tick-borne diseases. 2  The Lyme disease vaccine helps