Lack of potassium can lead to increase in the amount of uric acid. Eating banana and other foods rich in potassium ease inflammation and gout attacks. Having bananas daily is good for gout patients. Other foods that can be source of potassium are potatoes, beans, vegetables and other fruits. Carbohydrate-rich foods, low fat dairy products, green leafy vegetables, and fresh fruits are also considered best diet for gout sufferers. These foods can prevent gout attacks, making them ideal for the victims. Above all, drinking a lot of water regularly will help neutralize the body’s uric acid level. 
Medium-purine foods are allowed only when gout is under control, when you may eat one serving per day. Medium-purine foods include beef, lamb, pork, mushrooms, oats, spinach, asparagus, cauliflower, whole grains and any fish or shellfish not on the high-purine list. If the excess uric acid in the blood forms crystals, it can lead to gout. Because uric acid is formed as a byproduct of the breakdown of purines, many experts recommend those with gout limit the amount of purine in their diet.
1 Vegetables. 2  A diet rich in vegetables is important to good health. 3  While doctors once advised against vegetables with purines –including mushrooms, asparagus and spinach – for people with gout, research published in 2012 shows no correlation between the intake of these vegetables and gout risk. 1 A diet rich in vegetables is important to good health. 2  While doctors once advised against vegetables with purines –including mushrooms, asparagus and spinach – for people with gout, research published in 2012 shows no correlation between the intake of these vegetables and gout risk.
Dairy products (milk, cheese, yogurt) Low-fat milk and low-fat yogurt are excellent foods for gout sufferers because of their low purine content and ability to lower gout risk. Eggs Eggs are low in purines, but limit consumption to 2 to 3 a week because eggs contain high cholesterol. Cold-water fish. Gout-friendly foods (low purine). White bread, pasta and noodles Refined carbohydrates are safe to eat for gout sufferers because they have a low purine content. But too much consumption of refined carbohydrates can cause a rapid rise in blood sugar and increase one’s risk of developing metabolic syndrome and diabetes.
What to Eat. Most of your diet should consist of low-purine foods, including refined breads and grains, low-fat milk and cheese, nuts, peanut butter, low-fat cream soups, rice, potatoes, onions, lettuce, tomatoes, cucumbers, plain yogurt, grapes and bean sprouts. If the excess uric acid in the blood forms crystals, it can lead to gout. Because uric acid is formed as a byproduct of the breakdown of purines, many experts recommend those with gout limit the amount of purine in their diet.
Gout, a painful form of arthritis, occurs when high levels of uric acid in the blood cause crystals to form and accumulate around a joint. Uric acid is produced when the body breaks down a chemical called purine. Purine occurs naturally in your body, but it's also found in certain foods. A gout diet may help decrease uric acid levels in the blood. While a gout diet is not a cure, it may lower the risk of recurring painful gout attacks and slow the progression of joint damage. Medication also is needed to manage pain and to lower levels of uric acid
1. Fish. If you suffer from attacks of gout, you may want to stay away from foods high in purine. Moderate levels of purine in your diet may not affect gout, but high levels will. Fish with high levels of purine include herring, sardines, carp, cod, haddock, salmon, trout, tuna, and anchovies. Eating small amounts of these foods should not produce an acute attack, however a diet high in purine rich fish can. Next ».
To help control your gout: 1  Limit foods that are high in purines, especially meat, seafood, and beer. 2  Eat a healthy diet that provides the nutrients you need and helps you control your weight. 3  Eat low-fat dairy products. 4  This may lower your risk of gout. 5  Drink plenty of water and other fluids. 1 Eat foods that may lower your risk of gout. 2  These include: 3  Low-fat or fat-free milk. 4  Low-fat yogurt. 5  Choose healthy foods. 6  These foods include: 7  A wide range of fruits and vegetables. 8  Eggs, nuts, and seeds for protein. 9  Small amounts of meat.