Peas (Pisum sativum L.) contain two kinds of monodesmosidic, triterpene saponins, structurally comparable to those from soybeans — saponin B (soyasaponin I) and DDMP saponin (soyasaponin βg).
Compared to other legumes, peas only contain a comparatively small amount of saponins. Main sources for triterpenoid saponins are especially chickpeas (56 mg/g DM), followed by soybeans (43 mg/g DM), or lentils with an average of 4.2 mg/g DM.
Although many grasses do contain saponins, they are only concentrated in the Legumes; soybeans, peas, beans, beet pulp, alfalfa, sorghum (milo), tomato pomace, and curiously enough, in only grain, oats.
Saponins are basically phyto-chemicals which are found in most of the vegetables, beans and herbs. The well known sources of saponins are soybeans, peas, and some herbs with the names that indicate foaming properties such as soapwort, soapberry, soapbark and soap root.
Peas (Pisum sativum L.) contain two kinds of monodesmosidic, triterpene saponins, whose chemical structure is comparable to those of soybean saponins. Primarily, saponin B (soyasaponin I) has been reported to be the main component in green peas.
The toxin is only found in the seeds of certain Lathyrus species (L. sativus, L. cicera, L. clymenun)! Edible peas and beans are of the genera Cicer, Glycine, Phaseolus, Pisum, and Vigna. They do not contain any such toxin. Non-edible peas of the genus Lathyrus include sweet peas, which are ornamentals grown for their scented flowers. In India, where food is often scarce, some people have resorted to eating a non-edible pea known as Lathyrus sativus.
1 We don't usually think about green peas as an exotic food in terms of nutrient composition—but we should. 2  Because of their sweet taste and starchy texture, we know that green peas must contain some sugar and starch (and they do). 3  But they also contain a unique assortment of health-protective phytonutrients.
1 Even though green peas are an extremely low-fat food (with approximately one-third gram of total fat per cup) the type of fat and fat-soluble nutrients they contain is impressive. 2  Recent research has shown that green peas are a reliable source of omega-3 fats in the form of alpha-linolenic acid (ALA).