In this article. Keratosis pilaris is a common, harmless skin condition. It causes small, hard bumps that may make your skin feel like sandpaper. The bumps are often light-colored. They usually appear on your upper arms, thighs, and buttocks, sometimes with redness or swelling. If you have dry skin, you're more likely to have keratosis pilaris. It's usually worse in the winter months, when there's less moisture in the air, and then may clear up in the summer. It often affects people with certain skin conditions, including eczema (also called atopic dermatitis).
Food Allergies. One of the main suspected causes of Keratosis Pilaris is intolerance to certain foods including dairy products and certain types of meats. For instance, intolerance to casein—a dairy protein found in all dairy products—has been linked to the condition. The second most common KP causing food allergen is excessive consumption of meat and eggs. Animal proteins like these can possibly cause and/or worsen the disease in some of those afflicted with keratosis pilaris.
Small elevations of skin around the hair follicles cause keratosis pilaris (KP). The condition does not seem to be tied to diet, allergies, or vitamin deficiency. Some researchers speculate that ingrown hairs may cause keratosis pilaris. 
Keratosis pilaris is a common skin condition characterized by small acne-like bumps and dry, rough patches. Your arms, buttocks and thighs are most likely to be affected. The basic cause of keratosis pilaris is a buildup of the protein keratin that blocks the skin's hair follicles. The cause of this buildup is unknown but is often associated with allergies and a similar skin condition called eczema. Magnesium may help the condition owing to its positive impact on eczema and dry skin
Keratosis Pilaris. Keratosis pilaris is a genetic disorder of the skin. It is a common skin condition where the skin on the back and outer sides of the upper arms are rough and bumpy. This condition is also described as chicken skin or goose bumps. The common areas of the body that are affected are the outer-upper arms and thighs. Although no clear cause has been found, keratosis pilaris is often described in association with other dry skin conditions and also with asthma and allergies. It affects nearly 50-80% of all adolescents and approximately 40% of adult
Keratosis Pilaris. by Allergy Guy. Keratosis pilaris is a skin condition, where the skin on the back and outer sides of the upper arms are rough and bumpy. It can also appear almost anywhere else on the body, especially on the thighs and tops of legs. It does not generally occur on palms or soles of feet. Keratosis pilaris is causes by an excess of keratin (a skin pigment) in the body. The excess keratin a cream coloured substance, collects in the hair follicles, blocking them and forming hard plugs. You can feel this as hard bumps. Dry conditions make it worse, which is why it is often worse in the winter.
Cause. Keratosis pilaris is caused by a buildup of keratin, the protein that protects skin from infections and other harmful things. The buildup forms a plug that blocks the opening of a hair follicle, but doctors don't know what triggers the buildup. If you have dry skin, you're more likely to have keratosis pilaris. It's usually worse in the winter months, when there's less moisture in the air, and then may clear up in the summer. It often affects people with certain skin conditions, including eczema (also called atopic dermatitis).
Keratosis pilaris (KP) (also follicular keratosis, lichen pilaris, or colloquially chicken skin) is a common, autosomal dominant, genetic follicular condition characterized by the appearance of rough, slightly red, bumps on the skin. 
Remove any foods from your diet that worsen your condition. Keratosis Pilaris is usually caused by food intolerances or food allergies. The number ONE cause of Keratosis Pilaris is the inability to process the Casein (dairy protein) found in all dairy products. Casein is a very common allergen and is particularly hard on people who have chronic illness. Like all chronic skin conditions, the root cause of Keratosis Pilaris is the result of a internal imbalance. All chronic skin conditions indicate that the internal organs are not properly processing nutrients and/or toxins.