Nifedipine is used to control angina (chest pain). Nifedipine is also used to treat high blood pressure. Nifedipine relaxes blood vessels, so that the heart does not need to pump as hard. Nifedipine also increases blood and oxygen supply to the heart. This medicine is also sometimes used to treat preterm labor and a condition known as Raynaud’s disease (a disorder that affects blood vessels, mostly in the fingers and toes). Nifedipine is in a class of drugs known as calcium-channel blockers.
Nifedipine is commonly prescribed to treat angina or high blood pressure. Nifedipine is a prescription medication used to treat certain types of chest pain (angina) and high blood pressure (hypertension). It helps slow down the rate at which calcium moves into the heart and blood vessel walls, which makes it easier for the heart to pump blood
Nifedipine is in a group of drugs called calcium channel blockers. It works by relaxing the muscles of your heart and blood vessels. Nifedipine is used to treat hypertension (high blood pressure) and angina (chest pain). You should not use nifedipine if you are allergic to it. Before taking nifedipine, tell your doctor if you have kidney or liver disease, a blockage in your digestive tract (stomach or intestines), a history of stomach surgery, coronary artery disease, underactive thyroid, diabetes, or congestive heart failure.
Uses. Nifedipine is used alone or in combination with other drugs to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). Lowering high blood pressure helps prevent strokes, heart attacks, and kidney problems. This medication is also used for certain types of chest pain (angina). 
Nifedipine is used alone or together with other medicines to treat severe chest pain (angina) or high blood pressure (hypertension). High blood pressure adds to the workload of the heart and arteries. If it continues for a long time, the heart and arteries may not function properly. Nifedipine is a calcium channel blocker. It works by affecting the movement of calcium into the cells of the heart and blood vessels. As a result, nifedipine relaxes blood vessels and increases the supply of blood and oxygen to the heart while reducing its workload.
Procardia XL is a medication that is licensed for the treatment of high blood pressure and certain types of chest pain (angina). Procardia XL ® (nifedipine) is a prescription medication used to treat certain types of chest pain (angina) and high blood pressure (hypertension). Procardia XL is part of a class of drugs called calcium channel blockers. It helps to slow down the rate at which calcium moves into the heart and into the walls of the blood vessels.
This medication is used to prevent certain types of chest pain (angina). It may allow you to exercise more and decrease the frequency of angina attacks. Nifedipine belongs to a class of medications known as calcium channel blockers. It works by relaxing blood vessels so blood can flow more easily. This medication must be taken regularly to be effective. It should not be used to treat attacks of chest pain when they occur. How to use Procardia. Take this medication by mouth, usually 3 times daily with or without food or as directed by your doctor. Swallow this medication whole. Do not crush, chew, or break the capsule. The dosage is based on your medical condition and response to treatment. Your doctor may gradually increase your dose.
Nifedipine is used to treat high blood pressure and to control angina (chest pain). Nifedipine is in a class of medications called calcium-channel blockers. It works by relaxing the blood vessels so the heart does not have to pump as hard. 
Procardia XL is an extended-release medication that is usually taken once a day. Procardia XL ® (nifedipine) is a prescription medication used to treat certain types of chest pain (angina) and high blood pressure (hypertension). Procardia XL is part of a class of drugs called calcium channel blockers. It helps to slow down the rate at which calcium moves into the heart and into the walls of the blood vessels.
Nifedipine is a prescription drug used to treat high blood pressure and control chest pain (angina). It’s sold under the brand names Procardia XL, Adalat CC, and others, and generic versions are available. This medicine is also sometimes used to treat preterm labor and a condition known as Raynaud’s disease (a disorder that affects blood vessels, mostly in the fingers and toes). Nifedipine is in a class of drugs known as calcium-channel blockers.