Norway rats belong to the species Rattus norvegicus. Other names for the Norway rat are brown rat, gray rat, common rat, house rat, wharf rat, barn rat, sewer rat and water rat. They prefer temperate zones. They burrow extensively in soil and like to nest in basements and lower portions of buildings. They are poor climbers, but great swimmers. 
The Goodfellow's tree kangaroo has been known to eat  eggs and small birds as well.    Smaller varieties of kangaroos such as the musky-rat kangaroo are  omnivores, eating fruits, seeds, fungi insect  larvae and small invertebrates such as grasshoppers and beetles. Most species of tree kangaroos are herbivores, as they eat leaves, and sometimes fruit. Some varieties of tree kangaroo are omnivores, eating inse … cts and other invertebrates. The Goodfellow's tree kangaroo has been known to eat eggs and small birds as well.
Herbivores in other Ecosystems Herbivores in the Desert In the desert there are many smaller animals that eat only plants. There are many species of small rodents in the desert; some of these animals are kangaroo rats and mice. 
Passionate about all things Australian. Kangaroo rats are mainly granivores as they primarily eat seeds of plants. However, they do eat some vegetation, as well as insects and invertebrates, so they can be considered to be omnivores. Most species of tree kangaroos are herbivores, as they eat leaves, and sometimes fruit. Some varieties of tree kangaroo are omnivores, eating inse … cts and other invertebrates. The Goodfellow's tree kangaroo has been known to eat eggs and small birds as well.
1 The diet of the Musky Rat-Kangaroo is more similar to the diets of other Potoroids than other Macropodoid diets. 2  The Musky Rat-Kangaroo is unlikely to be able to digest structural carbohydrates in the cell walls of plants as well as other macropods as it has a simple stomach compared to other macropods. 1 The Musky Rat-Kangaroo is unlikely to be able to digest structural carbohydrates in the cell walls of plants as well as other macropods as it has a simple stomach compared to other macropods. 2  The Musky Rat-Kangaroo feeds primarily on fruits and seeds such as the fruits of the King Palm.
Diet. 1  The diet of the Musky Rat-Kangaroo is more similar to the diets of other Potoroids than other Macropodoid diets. 2  The Musky Rat-Kangaroo is unlikely to be able to digest structural carbohydrates in the cell walls of plants as well as other macropods as it has a simple stomach compared to other macropods. 1 The Musky Rat-Kangaroo is unlikely to be able to digest structural carbohydrates in the cell walls of plants as well as other macropods as it has a simple stomach compared to other macropods. 2  The Musky Rat-Kangaroo feeds primarily on fruits and seeds such as the fruits of the King Palm.
It depends on the species, although no species of kangaroos is carnivorous. The animals most commonly known as kangaroos are herbivores, primarily eating grass and other vegetation. Besides grass, they eat young shoots and tender leaves of native shrubs. They enjoy grains as well, but being herbivorous, they do not eat any other animals. It depends on the species. Most species of tree kangaroos are herbivores, as they eat leaves, and sometimes fruit. Some varieties of tree kangaroo are omnivores, eating inse … cts and other invertebrates. The Goodfellow's tree kangaroo has been known to eat eggs and small birds as well. Smaller varieties of kangaroos such as the musky-rat kangaroo are omnivores, eating fruits, seeds, fungi insect larvae and small invertebrates such as grasshoppers and beetle
Kangaroo rats are primarily granivores (seed-eaters). They eat seeds from the desert grasses in their habitat.     They also eat plant parts such as leaves, stems, bud … s, some fruit, and many of them eat insects, grubs and larvae. This means they are omnivores. Most species of tree kangaroos are herbivores, as they eat leaves, and sometimes fruit. Some varieties of tree kangaroo are omnivores, eating inse … cts and other invertebrates. The Goodfellow's tree kangaroo has been known to eat eggs and small birds as well.