Magnetic North Pole. The magnetic North Pole is not the same as true north; it is several hundreds of miles south of the geographic North Pole. Earth's iron core and movement within its outer part generates a magnetic field, and the magnetic North and South Poles are where the field is vertical. Compasses point to the magnetic North Pole. 
The Magnetic North Pole. Earth's magnetic north pole is where the magnetic field lines are oriented vertically and plunge into the surface of the Earth i.e. where the magnetic inclination is +90 degrees. This is called the magnetic dip pole. 
The North Magnetic Pole is the point on the surface of Earth 's Northern Hemisphere at which the planet's magnetic field points vertically downwards (in other words, if a magnetic compass needle is allowed to rotate about a horizontal axis, it will point straight down). The Earth's North and South Magnetic Poles are also known as Magnetic Dip Poles, with reference to the vertical dip of the magnetic field lines at those points.
'Magnetic South' is located near ' … True South' -i.e. the geographic South Pole. It is not a fixed location, but 'wobbles' around True South over time. The Earth's 'magnetic south pole', on the other hand, is located deep in the earth below the location of Magnetic North. This is because the Earth behaves like a giant bar magnet with its south magnetic pole located below True North and its north magnetic pole located below True South. 
The magnetic poles are the places on the Earth's surface where the magnetic field force is acting perpendicularly to the surface. The North magnetic pole is where the field is acting straight down; at the South magnetic pole, it is acting straight up. 
In fact, the earth has two magnetic poles but neither of these is located on the geographic north or south pole. .Identification The north magnetic pole of the earth is located in the Canadian Arctic on Ellef Ringnes Island, about 870 miles from the North Pole. Ellef Ringnes Island is one of the Sverdrup Islands. Our planet also has two magnetic poles: the North Magnetic Pole and the South Magnetic Pole. The magnetic poles are near, but not quite in the same places as, the geographic poles. The needle in a compass points towards a magnetic pole.
The latest figures available for the position of the Magnetic North Pole is 82.7N and 114.4W. This figure is from 2005. The position of the Magnetic North Pole has historically moved at a rate of about 10 miles per year up until the early 1990's when it accelerated to its present rate of about 37 miles per year. It is currently moving towards Siberia.
Its southern hemisphere counterpart is the South Magnetic Pole. Since the Earth's magnetic field is not exactly symmetrical, the North and South Magnetic Poles are not antipodal, meaning that a line drawn from one to the other does not pass through the geometric centre of the Earth. The Earth's North and South Magnetic Poles are also known as Magnetic Dip Poles, with reference to the vertical dip of the magnetic field lines at those points.
In fact, the center of the magnetic field and that's where the magnetic compass is going to point, for the North Pole it's a near place called Ellesmere Island which is in Canada. Ellesmere Island in Canada is located at 82.7 degrees north and 114.4 degrees west. Today, we're going to discuss where earth's magnetic pole is located. So first of all, earth has a magnetic field, and there are certain points that are considered poles. So, a pole is simply where the magnetic field is at a 90 degree angle. So, it's pointing straight into the earth.