Symbolic interactionism is a school of thought in sociology that explains social behavior in terms of how people interact with each other via symbols; in this view, social structures are best understood in terms of such individual interactions. 
1 Social conflict theory-This theory implies that society is based on small groups that have conflicts that help society to evolve or change. 2  Feminism-This theory is based on the idea that there are inequalities based on gender and the practice of trying to fix those inequalities. 1 Feminism-This theory is based on the idea that there are inequalities based on gender and the practice of trying to fix those inequalities. 2  Symbolic interactionism-This theory implies that society is really about the smaller groups within it and the symbols that these small groups use to communicate.
Conflict Theory: - Conflict theory maintains that a sociological perspective for a society is depended upon irreconcilable differences within members of that society, brought upon by inequalities in their political, economic and social statuses. Karl Marx is credited with being the father of Conflict Theory. Functional Theory: - Functional theory is a perspective that maintains that a society as a whole is a sum of its parts; that each part is functioning in a manner conducive towards the stability of the society at large.
CONFLICT THEORY is a concept in sociology that emphasizes the political, material or standing of a social group and the socially accepted, perceived norms ascribed to them. Conflict theories highlight contrasting social structures and stratification within historically dominant ideologies. Cultural differences such as ethnicity, gender, age, politics and religion are a major components of social structure. Here in America, we live in a pluralistic nation where diversity is prevalent. Every society is built on the bases of what is important for them and the survival of it's members.
In short, a characteristic of symbolic conflict is that it takes the form of a zero-sum game in which ratios and not quantities of symbolic capital are at issue, and in which any gain to one group or actor can only be made at the expense of some other or others (cf. Bourdieu 1990: 121). In fact, a case could be made for considering them as the 'same' ritual and the conflict as a proprietary contest, a struggle for the control of this shared cultural object (see Harrison 1992). But, again, the Eucharist is best regarded as a class or family of symbolic objects having both resemblances and differences.
Sociology is a fascinating subject which deals with the study of human behavior and social structure of our nation and world. Cultural differences such as ethnicity, gender, age, politics and religion are a major components of social structure. Here in America, we live in a pluralistic nation where diversity is prevalent. Every society is built on the bases of what is important for them and the survival of it's members.
The third and fourth types of symbolic conflict I shall describe are different in this respect, because they are aimed at modifying the symbolic repertoires of groups. The first step in understanding these processes of change is to determine how the symbolic inventories of groups are generated in the first place. In fact, a case could be made for considering them as the 'same' ritual and the conflict as a proprietary contest, a struggle for the control of this shared cultural object (see Harrison 1992). But, again, the Eucharist is best regarded as a class or family of symbolic objects having both resemblances and differences.
Symbolic Interactionism: - As the name suggests, symbolic interactionism as a perspective in sociology, is the interaction and analysis between various members of a society with the help of specific symbols. These symbols could hold more than one meaning and could even be represented by language. Functional Theory: - Functional theory is a perspective that maintains that a society as a whole is a sum of its parts; that each part is functioning in a manner conducive towards the stability of the society at large.
In other words, the first is a conflict over the assignment of symbols to groups, and the second is a conflict over the assignment of groups to symbols. The underlying issue in an expansionary contest, the resource for which the players are implicitly competing, seems usually to be people's political alle-giances. In fact, a case could be made for considering them as the 'same' ritual and the conflict as a proprietary contest, a struggle for the control of this shared cultural object (see Harrison 1992). But, again, the Eucharist is best regarded as a class or family of symbolic objects having both resemblances and differences.