Some people who test positive for HIV were not aware of their risk. That’s why CDC recommends that providers in all health care settings make HIV testing a routine part of medical care for patients aged 13 to 64, unless the patient declines (opts out). Although most HIV tests look for these antibodies, some look for the virus itself. The period after infection but before the test becomes positive is called the window period. Deciding when to get tested therefore depends on when you may have been exposed and which test is used. You can ask your health care provider about the window period for the HIV test you are taking. If you are using a home test, you can get that information from the materials included in the packaging of the test
For antibody tests, if you get a negative result within 3 months of your most recent possible exposure, you need to get tested again at the 3-month mark. For combination antibody/antigen tests or RNA tests, that timeframe may be shorter. The most common HIV test is the antibody screening test (immunoassay), which tests for the antibodies that your body makes against HIV. The immunoassay may be conducted in a lab or as a rapid test at the testing site.
Method 1 of 3: Who Should Get Tested. 1. Determine if you have HIV symptoms. If you have flu-like symptoms that last for a week or 2, and you don't recall being exposed to the influenza virus, you may have HIV. If you suspect your symptoms are from HIV, see your doctor. 1 In addition, if you test negative for HIV within 3 months of potential exposure, you'll need to be tested again 3 months afterward to rule out the possibility that the first test missed the presence of HIV antibodies.
To get tested: 1  Ask your doctor to do the test. 2  Also, if you go to a doctor for an illness, injury, or pregnancy, he or she may offer you an HIV test. 3  Ask your doctor where to find a local HIV testing site. 4  Visit the National HIV and STD Resources website to find a local testing site. Antibody tests look for antibodies to HIV, rather than the HIV itself. Antibodies to HIV often can be found between two weeks and three months after infection. Depending on the test and the place where you are tested, results come back within a few minutes to a few weeks.
To get tested: 1  Ask your doctor to do the test. 2  Ask your doctor where to find a local HIV testing site. 3  Visit the National HIV and STD Resources website to find a local testing site. 4  Call CDC-INFO at 800-232-4636 or 888-232-6348 (TDD) to find a local testing site. 5  Call your state HIV/AIDS hotline to find a testing site. Antibody tests look for antibodies to HIV, rather than the HIV itself. Antibodies to HIV often can be found between two weeks and three months after infection. Depending on the test and the place where you are tested, results come back within a few minutes to a few weeks.
A small blood sample, mouth swab, or urine sample is used to test people for HIV. It can take as long as 3 to 6 months after the infection for the virus to show up in your blood. You can be tested at a doctor’s office, hospital, community health center, or other health clinic. Some places have mobile testing vans. Anyone, at any age, can get HIV/AIDS. People usually get HIV from unprotected sex with someone who has HIV/AIDS, through contact with HIV-infected blood, or by sharing needles with an infected person. You may be at risk if: 1  You had sex without a latex or polyurethane condom.
These antigen/antibody combination tests can find HIV as soon as 3 weeks after exposure to the virus, but they are only available for testing blood, not oral fluid. The rapid test is an immunoassay used for screening, and it produces quick results, in 30 minutes or less. Although most HIV tests look for these antibodies, some look for the virus itself. The period after infection but before the test becomes positive is called the window period. Deciding when to get tested therefore depends on when you may have been exposed and which test is used. You can ask your health care provider about the window period for the HIV test you are taking. If you are using a home test, you can get that information from the materials included in the packaging of the test
If you are worried about something that happened that may have exposed you to HIV, you naturally will want to get tested as soon as possible. A good strategy would be to go back for a test 3 months after your possible exposure; the result you get after 3 months will be 99% certain. 
A few people will have a longer window period, so if you get a negative antibody test result in the first 3 months after possible exposure, you should get a repeat test after 3 months. Ninety-seven percent of people will develop antibodies in the first 3 months after they are infected. Although most HIV tests look for these antibodies, some look for the virus itself. The period after infection but before the test becomes positive is called the window period. Deciding when to get tested therefore depends on when you may have been exposed and which test is used. You can ask your health care provider about the window period for the HIV test you are taking. If you are using a home test, you can get that information from the materials included in the packaging of the test