urachus. a fetal canal connecting the bladder with the allantois, persisting throughout life as a cord (median umbilical ligament). adj., adj u´rachal. patent urachus a condition in which the urachus remains a hollow tube connecting the bladder and the umbilicus, resulting in an umbilical urinary fistula. That part of the allantois between the apex of the bladder and the umbilicus; postnatally, the urachus is normally merely a fibrous cord, the median umbilical ligament, but occasionally the allantoic lumen may persist as a urachal fistula.
Urachus: A canal that connects the urinary bladder to the umbilicus (bellybutton) during fetal development. The urachus is normally obliterated, so it is usually a solid cord. Failure for the urachus to fill in leaves it open. The telltale sign of an open urachus is leakage of urine through the umbilicus. 
The urachus is a fibrous remnant of the allantois, a canal that drains the urinary bladder of the fetus that joins and runs within the umbilical cord. The fibrous remnant lies in the space of Retzius, between the transversalis fascia anteriorly and the peritoneum posteriorly. The vesico-urethral portion of the urogenital sinus absorbs the ends of the Wolffian ducts and the associated ends of the renal diverticula, and these give rise to the trigone of the bladder and part of the prostatic urethra.
Pathology. Patent urachus represents the failure of the entire course of the urachus to close resulting in an open channel between the bladder and the umbilicus. A patent urachus is usually diagnosed neonates when urine is noted leaking from the umbilicus. A patent urachus may present later in life and it can become infected
Email Article. The most common developmental abnormality of the puppy bladder is a persistent urachus. In the fetus, the urachus is a tube-like structure, which, by exiting through the umbilical (navel) area, connects the puppy's bladder to the placental tissues. This tube allows fetal urine to exit the fetus and be absorbed into the mother's system for elimination from her body.
u·ra·chus. That part of the allantois between the apex of the bladder and the umbilicus; postnatally, the urachus is normally merely a fibrous cord, the median umbilical ligament, but occasionally the allantoic lumen may persist as a urachal fistula. [G. ourachos, the urinary canal of a fetus]
Definition of Patent urachus. Patent urachus: A surgery to repair a bladder defect. In an open (patent) urachus, there is an opening between the bladder and the umbilicus. The opening usually closes before birth. An open urachus typically occurs in infants. Failure for the lumen of the urachus to be filled in leaves a patent (open) urachus. The telltale sign is leakage of urine through the umbilicus.
urachus. a fetal canal connecting the bladder with the allantois, persisting throughout life as a cord (median umbilical ligament). adj., adj u´rachal. patent urachus a condition in which the urachus remains a hollow tube connecting the bladder and the umbilicus, resulting in an umbilical urinary fistula.
The urachi usually close before puppies are born. Comstock/Stockbyte/Getty Images. Patent urachus is a minor deformity in the urinary tract of a dog. It is usually not too serious, although it may cause side effects such as frequent urinary tract infections. The condition is usually corrected in young puppies, and those who undergo treatment generally fully recover and lead normal lives. Sometimes the atrophying process is interrupted, and the urachus either never entirely closes or reopens. In patent urachus, the urachus remains entirely open, and urine may escape the body either through the urethra or through the umbilicus.