Fibrinolytic Therapy: What You Should Really Know; Fibrinolytic therapy is a crucial medical treatment that makes use of certain special drugs that will work in the body to break down the blood clots blocking the major arteries. 
Thrombolytic agents are used for the treatment of myocardial infarction (heart attack), thromboembolic strokes, deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism to clear a blocked artery and avoid permanent damage to the perfused (see perfusion) tissue (e.g. myocardium, brain, leg) and death. Thrombolytic drugs are used in medicine to dissolve blood clots in a procedure termed thrombolysis.
In fibrinolysis, a fibrin clot, the product of coagulation, is broken down. Its main enzyme plasmin cuts the fibrin mesh at various places, leading to the production of circulating fragments that are cleared by other proteases or by the kidney and liver. The fibrinolytic system is closely linked to control of inflammation, and plays a role in disease states associated with inflammation. Plasmin, in addition to lysing fibrin clots, also cleaves the complement system component C3, and fibrin degradation products have some vascular permeability inducing effects.
Plasmin is produced in an inactive form, plasminogen, in the liver. Although plasminogen cannot cleave fibrin, it still has an affinity for it, and is incorporated into the clot when it is formed. The fibrinolytic system is closely linked to control of inflammation, and plays a role in disease states associated with inflammation. Plasmin, in addition to lysing fibrin clots, also cleaves the complement system component C3, and fibrin degradation products have some vascular permeability inducing effects.
Fibrinolytic therapy, also sometimes called “thrombolytic therapy,” is the use of special drugs to break up blood clots that are blocking a person or animal’s major artery. They are most commonly given to people after a heart attack or when a major blood clot has been discovered in a medical scan. Fibrinolytic therapy is often administered as a drug. Fibrinolytic therapy is the use of special drugs to break up blood clots. Blood clots can lead to death if one gets into the heart and other vital organs. Fibrinolytic therapy may be given to a patient after a heart attack
Because of these actions, thrombolytic drugs are also called plasminogen activators and fibrinolytic drugs.. There are three major classes of fibrinolytic drugs: tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) , streptokinase (SK) , and urokinase (UK) . While drugs in these three classes all have the ability to effectively dissolve blood clots, they differ in their detailed mechanisms in ways that alter their selectivity for fibrin clots. The figure to the right illustrates the fibrinolytic mechanisms for tPA and SK. Derivatives of tPA are the most commonly used thrombolytic drugs, especially for coronary and cerebral vascular clots, because of their relative selectivity for activating fibrin-bound plasminogen. It is important to note that the efficacy of thrombolytic drugs depends on the age of the clot. Older clots have more fibrin cross-linking and are more compacted; therefore, older clots are more difficult to dissolve.
The ELT measures fibrinolysis by clotting the euglobulin fraction (primarily the important fibrinolytic factors fibrinogen, PAI-1, tPA, alpha 2-antiplasmin, and plasminogen) from plasma and then observing the time required for clot dissolution. The fibrinolytic system is closely linked to control of inflammation, and plays a role in disease states associated with inflammation. Plasmin, in addition to lysing fibrin clots, also cleaves the complement system component C3, and fibrin degradation products have some vascular permeability inducing effects.
The therapy is very commonly used in heart attack victims to slow the rate of the attack and to help stabilize blood pressure and flow. A heart attack, also called a myocardial infarction, can happen when blood clots or plaque build up in and subsequently block a major artery that feeds blood to the heart. Fibrinolytic therapy is often administered as a drug. Fibrinolytic therapy is the use of special drugs to break up blood clots. Blood clots can lead to death if one gets into the heart and other vital organs. Fibrinolytic therapy may be given to a patient after a heart attack
The primary type is a normal body process, whereas secondary fibrinolysis is the breakdown of clots due to a medicine, a medical disorder, or some other cause. The fibrinolytic system is closely linked to control of inflammation, and plays a role in disease states associated with inflammation. Plasmin, in addition to lysing fibrin clots, also cleaves the complement system component C3, and fibrin degradation products have some vascular permeability inducing effects.