Step 5. Cook the meat for at least 1 1/2 hours on a low or medium setting. The cook time will depend on the size of the spare ribs and the cooking power of your rotisserie. A safe approach is to begin checking the meat's internal temperature after you pass the hour mark -- use a meat thermometer to check on how well it has cooked. Photo Credit BravissimoS/iStock/Getty Images. Spare ribs can be cooked in a variety of ways. Many cooks season them with a barbecue sauce to complement the strong flavor of the pork. Spare ribs are high in fat and are thus excellent for slow-cooking methods like smoking and cooking in a rotisserie. These ribs are best enjoyed when the meat comes easily off the bones, which slow-cooking can encourage
4) Two hours before cooking time take the roast out of the refrigerator and leave in the plastic wrap and let the meat come to room temperature. 5) Spindle the roast, secure it inside the Showtime Rotisserie, and cook 17 minutes per pound for a medium rare 5 pound roast. (In this case, 1 hour and 25 minutes). 
Mix seasonings and rub onto all sides of roast. Place on rotisserie and cook at 250°F for 4 hours to an internal temperature of 130°F. Remove from rotisserie and allow roast to rest for 10-15 minutes. Slice and enjoy. Instructions: 1  Mix seasonings and rub onto all sides of roast. 2  Place on rotisserie and cook at 250°F for 4 hours to an internal temperature of 130°F. 3  Remove from rotisserie and allow roast to rest for 10-15 minutes. 4  Slice and enjoy.
Post # 1. My daughter just called and is making ribs in her showtime rotisserie. Does anyone have Ron Popeil cookbook. I can't find mine. I told her to par boil them for 15 minutes.
Making the world better, one answer at a time. How long it takes to cook a prime rib in a Ronco rotisserie will depend on how well done you want it. If you want it well done, you can cook it for 18 minutes per pound. If you like it medium rare, cook it for 14 minutes per pound. Cooking times for a prime rib vary depending on how big the prime rib is and how well done one likes one's meat cooked. For rare meat cook for 12-13 minutes per pound. For me … dium rare meat cook for 14-16 minutes per pound. For medium meat, cook for 17-20 minutes per pound. To calculate your cooking time, multiply the weight of the prime rib by the number of minutes needed to cook to one's preferred wellness
4. Cook the ribs: Put the skewer of ribs on the rotisserie, and start it spinning. Cook with the lid closed for 1 hr 15 minutes to 1 hour 45 minutes. (I had very meaty ribs, and I had to cook them for 1 hour and 45 minutes this time). 6. Serve: Remove the ribs from the spit and let rest for 15 minutes. Cut the ribs into serving size portions and serve, passing extra barbecue sauce at the table. Variations: *Honey glazed ribs: Instead of the barbecue sauce, make a glaze of 1/2 cup honey and 2 tbsp apple cider vinegar, mixed together.