A: Effexor (venlafaxine) is an antidepressant in the class of drugs called selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). SNRIs affect chemicals in the brain that may become unbalanced and cause depression. It is used to treat major depressive disorder, anxiety, and panic disorder. A: Weight gain is a possible side effect of Effexor, occurring in at least 1 percent of patients taking the medication. Weight gain is a common side effect of tamoxifen, occurring in up to 9
The recommended starting dose is 37.5 mg per day of Effexor XR for 7 days. Patients not responding to 75 mg per day may benefit from dose increases to a maximum of approximately 225 mg per day. Effexor XR® (venlafaxine hydrochloride) extended-release capsules are available as follows: 37.5 mg, grey cap/peach body with “W” and “Effexor XR” on the cap and “37.5” on the body. NDC 0008-0837-20, bottle of 15 capsules in unit-of-use package. NDC 0008-0837-21, bottle of 30
For most patients, the recommended starting dose for Effexor XR is 75 mg per day, administered in a single dose. For some patients, it may be desirable to start at 37.5 mg per day for 4 to 7 days to allow new patients to adjust to the medication before increasing to 75 mg per day. Effexor XR® (venlafaxine hydrochloride) extended-release capsules are available as follows: 37.5 mg, grey cap/peach body with “W” and “Effexor XR” on the cap and “37.5” on the body. NDC 0008-0837-20, bottle of 15 capsules in unit-of-use package. NDC 0008-0837-21, bottle of 30
A: Effexor (venlafaxine) is an antidepressant medication that belongs to a class of drugs called selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SSNRIs). It is primarily used to treat major depression, anxiety disorders, and panic disorders. A: Weight gain is a possible side effect of Effexor, occurring in at least 1 percent of patients taking the medication. Weight gain is a common side effect of tamoxifen, occurring in up to 9
A: Effexor (venlafaxine) and Effexor XR (venlafaxine extended-release) are in a drug class called selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). Effexor is used in the treatment of depression. A: Weight gain is a possible side effect of Effexor, occurring in at least 1 percent of patients taking the medication. Weight gain is a common side effect of tamoxifen, occurring in up to 9
Effexor XR (venlafaxine hydrochloride) extended-release capsules are indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD). Efficacy was established in three short-term (4, 8, and 12 weeks) and two long-term, maintenance trials. Effexor XR® (venlafaxine hydrochloride) extended-release capsules are available as follows: 37.5 mg, grey cap/peach body with “W” and “Effexor XR” on the cap and “37.5” on the body. NDC 0008-0837-20, bottle of 15 capsules in unit-of-use package. NDC 0008-0837-21, bottle of 30
Note that it can take 4 to 6 weeks for a given antidepressant to take effect in younger people, and sometimes in the elderly the drug must be taken for 12 to 16 weeks before effects are noticed. If you're prescribed an antidepressant, the most important thing to do is to follow up with your doctor after two months. Together, assess whether things feel different. You may need the dose adjusted upward or a different type of medication. I googled best anti-depressant for elderly women. The expert answer here was based on 117 clinical trials over a period of eight weeks-too few, not long enough. The expert even states in a later sentence that anti-depressants can take as long as 12 - 16 weeks to take effect.
When venlafaxine is given to elderly patients the starting doses are the same as for other adults. As older people may be more sensitive to increases in dose they should be made slowly. While doses up to 375 mg per day are approved by the FDA, some severely depressed patients have been treated with higher doses. Most depressed people respond to doses under 300 mg per day. While most people taking venlafaxine become aware of some lessening of depression within two to four weeks, there are some who experience relief within the first week and others who only experience relief after a couple of months of therapy. No special problems were encountered when venlafaxine was prescribed for elderly people with depression. I usually start adults on 25 mg of venlafaxine every 12-hours. Every five days, I usually add 25 mg to each dose until the patient either responds or reaches reaches 150/day.
For most patients this would mean taking one tablet in the morning and one in the evening. Effexor (venlafaxine) is classified as a serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor antidepressant. Effexor is approved for the treatment of depression, generalized anxiety, social anxiety, and panic disorder. A: Weight gain is a possible side effect of Effexor, occurring in at least 1 percent of patients taking the medication. Weight gain is a common side effect of tamoxifen, occurring in up to 9
1 While most people taking venlafaxine become aware of some lessening of depression within two to four weeks, there are some who experience relief within the first week and others who only experience relief after a couple of months of therapy. 1 Which side-effects force people to stop taking venlafaxine? 2  In the premarketing studies 19% (537 out of the 2897) of depressed patients taking venlafaxine discontinued the medication because of side-effects.