All extant conifers are woody plants with secondary growth, the great majority being trees with just a few being shrubs. Typical examples of conifers include cedars, Douglas-firs, cypresses, firs, junipers, kauri, larches, pines, hemlocks, redwoods, spruces, and yews. The conifers are an ancient group, with a fossil record extending back about 300 million years to the Paleozoic in the late Carboniferous period; even many of the modern genera are recognizable from fossils 60–120 million years old.
Since most conifers are evergreens, the leaves of many conifers are long, thin and have a needle-like appearance, but others, including most of the Cupressaceae and some of the Podocarpaceae, have flat, triangular scale-like leaves. The conifers are an ancient group, with a fossil record extending back about 300 million years to the Paleozoic in the late Carboniferous period; even many of the modern genera are recognizable from fossils 60–120 million years old.
The earliest conifers in the fossil record date to the late Carboniferous (Pennsylvanian) period (about 300 million years ago), possibly arising from Cordaites, a seed-bearing plant with cone-like fertile structures. The conifers are an ancient group, with a fossil record extending back about 300 million years to the Paleozoic in the late Carboniferous period; even many of the modern genera are recognizable from fossils 60–120 million years old.
A conifer is a tree or shrub which produces distinctive cones as part of its sexual reproduction. These woody plants are classified among the gymnosperms, and they have a wide variety of uses, from trapping carbon in the environment to providing resins which can be used in the production of solvents. Several features beyond the cones set conifers apart from other types of woody plants. A conifer is typically evergreen, although some individuals are deciduous, and almost all conifers have needle or scale-like leaves.
Full Definition of CONIFER. : any of an order (Coniferales) of mostly evergreen trees and shrubs having usually needle-shaped or scalelike leaves and including forms (as pines) with true cones and others (as yews) with an arillate fruit. — co·nif·er·ous \kō-ˈni-f(ə-)rəs, kə-\ adjective.
Any of various trees or shrubs that bear cones. Conifers are dependent on the wind to blow pollen produced by the male cones to the female cones, where seeds develop. Conifers are usually evergreen, often have needle-shaped or scale-like leaves, and include the pine, fir, spruce, hemlock, and yew. See Note at pollination. 1. conifer-any gymnospermous tree or shrub bearing cones. coniferous tree. pine, pine tree, true pine-a coniferous tree. larch tree, larch-any of numerous conifers of the genus Larix all having deciduous needlelike leaves.
Conifer Health Solutions is a health services company like no other. What makes us exceptional is that we focus on strengthening both the financial health of your organization and the personal health of your patients, your community, your employees and your members. 
The conifers, division Pinophyta, also known as division Coniferophyta or Coniferae, are one of 12 extant division-level taxa within the Kingdom Plantae (Viridiplantae) and 10 within the extant land plants. The conifers are an ancient group, with a fossil record extending back about 300 million years to the Paleozoic in the late Carboniferous period; even many of the modern genera are recognizable from fossils 60–120 million years old.
Definition of CONIFER for Kids. : any of a group of mostly evergreen trees and shrubs (as pines) that typically produce cones and have leaves resembling needles or scales in shape. — co·nif·er·ous \kō-ˈni-fə-rəs, kə-\ adjective. : any of an order (Coniferales) of mostly evergreen trees and shrubs having usually needle-shaped or scalelike leaves and including forms (as pines) with true cones and others (as yews) with an arillate fruit. — co·nif·er·ous \kō-ˈni-f(ə-)