Allspice takes its name from its aroma, which smells like a combination of spices, especially cinnamon, cloves, ginger and nutmeg. In much of the world, allspice is called pimento because the Spanish mistook the fruit for black pepper, which the Spanish called pimienta. Allspice is the only spice that is grown exclusively in the Western Hemisphere. The evergreen tree that produces the allspice berries is indigenous to the rainforests of South and Central America where it grows wild.
Allspice is the dried fruit of the P. dioica plant. The fruits are picked when green and unripe and are traditionally dried in the sun. When dry, they are brown and resemble large brown smooth peppercorns. Allspice is one of the most important ingredients of Caribbean cuisine. It is used in Caribbean jerk seasoning (the wood is used to smoke jerk in Jamaica, although the spice is a good substitute), in moles, and in pickling; it is also an ingredient in commercial sausage preparations and curry powders.
--Bert. Allspice is the dried fruit of the evergreen myrtle plant Pimenta Dioica. It gets its name from the fact that it tastes, as you noticed, like cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg. The fruit is picked green and dried, usually in the sun, undergoing a color change to brown. -------------------------------- It is also knows as the Allspice, Pimento or Jamaican Pepper Tree and its native range is Mexico, Central America and the West Indies -- i.e. the island along the eastern and northern edges of the Caribbean Sea.
The name 'allspice' was coined as early as 1621 by the English, who thought it combined the flavour of cinnamon, nutmeg, and cloves. Several unrelated fragrant shrubs are called Carolina allspice (Calycanthus floridus), Japanese allspice (Chimonanthus praecox), or wild allspice (Lindera benzoin). Allspice is also sometimes used to refer to the herb costmary (Tanacetum balsamita). Allspice is one of the most important ingredients of Caribbean cuisine. It is used in Caribbean jerk seasoning (the wood is used to smoke jerk in Jamaica, although the spice is a good substitute), in moles, and in pickling; it is also an ingredient in commercial sausage preparations and curry powders.
ALLSPICE Overview Information. Allspice is a plant. The unripe berries and leaves of the plant are used to make medicine. Allspice is used for indigestion (dyspepsia), intestinal gas, abdominal pain, heavy menstrual periods, vomiting, diarrhea, fever, colds, high blood pressure, diabetes, and obesity. It is also used for emptying the bowels. 
Allspice. In the culinary arts, allspice is a spice made from the dried berries of a plant known as Pimenta dioica. A member of the pimento family, allspice is used in Caribbean, Middle Eastern and Latin American cuisines, among others. The flavor of allspice is similar to cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg and pepper. Ground allspice is combined with sugar, salt, ginger, cloves, cinnamon and other herbs and spices, along with soy sauce, lime juice and oil to form a marinade. Whole chicken legs are coated in the marinade and then refrigerated overnight.
Allspice (also called Jamaica pepper, Kurundu, Myrtle pepper, pimento, allspice berries, or newspice) is a spice which is the dried unripe fruit of the Pimenta dioica plant, a tree native to the West Indies, southern Mexico and Central America. The allspice was named because the flavor of the berry is like a mixture of cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg. It is used very much in baking, mostly for making mincemeat and mixed pickling spice. It was discovered first by the early Spanish explorers, who mistook it for a type of pepper.
Allspice is the dried berry of the Pimenta dioica tree. Also known as the pimento tree or the Jamaican pepper, it's a relative of the myrtle. At first glance, you might easily confuse the allspice berry with a peppercorn, just as early Spanish explorers did. 
Allspice is also one of the key ingredients in Jamaican jerk chicken. Ground allspice is combined with sugar, salt, ginger, cloves, cinnamon and other herbs and spices, along with soy sauce, lime juice and oil to form a marinade. Whole chicken legs are coated in the marinade and then refrigerated overnight.