Although there's more than one definition of the South Pole, the most popularly accepted one (and a travel destination) is a fixed location in the southern hemisphere at the Earth's axis of rotation, latitude 90°S (longitude not applicable). Antarctica is (for obvious reasons) the least-visited continent, and the South Pole is (because it is not accessible by sea) the least-visited site in Antarctica that is nominally open to tourism. Most expeditions take place in November thru January, during the Antarctic summer/day.
South Pole. The South Pole is well inland on Antartica’s polar plateau at an altitude of 9,300 feet. Because of the altitude and its location in the middle of the white plateau, the temperature remains very low. There is only one sunrise and one sunset each year at the South Pole: the sun rises on September 21 and sets on March 21. The highest recorded wind at the South Pole was only 48 knots (55 mph)
Temperatures at the South Pole are much lower than at the North Pole, primarily because the South Pole is located at altitude in the middle of a continental land mass, while the North Pole is at sea level in the middle of an ocean (which acts as a reservoir of heat). It is located around 180 metres (590 ft) from the Geographic South Pole, and consists of a metallic sphere on a plinth, surrounded by the flags of the Antarctic Treaty signatory states.
It's tempting to say that the climate at the South Pole is consistently cold, but it is not. In December it is very cold, with an average temperature of around -28℃ (-18℉). However In July it is astonishingly cold, with temperatures sagging to -80℃ (-112℉). Antarctica is (for obvious reasons) the least-visited continent, and the South Pole is (because it is not accessible by sea) the least-visited site in Antarctica that is nominally open to tourism. Most expeditions take place in November thru January, during the Antarctic summer/day.
It's Like the South Pole Here. 5,964 pages on this wiki. It's Like the South Pole Here is a skill point in Ratchet & Clank Future: Tools of Destruction. To earn it, the player has to turn 15 enemies into penguins at the same time using the Transmorpher.
The Ceremonial South Pole is an area set aside for photo opportunities at the South Pole Station. It is located around 180 metres (590 ft) from the Geographic South Pole, and consists of a metallic sphere on a plinth, surrounded by the flags of the Antarctic Treaty signatory states.
It is the southernmost point on the surface of the Earth and lies on the opposite side of the Earth from the North Pole. Situated on the continent of Antarctica, it is the site of the United States Amundsen-Scott South Pole Station, which was established in 1956 and has been permanently staffed since that year. It is located around 180 metres (590 ft) from the Geographic South Pole, and consists of a metallic sphere on a plinth, surrounded by the flags of the Antarctic Treaty signatory states.
Both the Arctic (North Pole) and the Antarctic (South Pole) are cold because they don’t get any direct sunlight. The Sun is always low on the horizon, even in the middle of summer. In winter, the Sun is so far below the horizon that it doesn’t come up at all for months at a time. 
Although the ground at the South Pole is close to sea level, the thick ice at that location raises the station to an altitude of 9,300 feet (2,835 meters). And because the earth's rotation causes the atmosphere to thin out at the poles, the air pressure is more like at 11,000 feet. Antarctica is (for obvious reasons) the least-visited continent, and the South Pole is (because it is not accessible by sea) the least-visited site in Antarctica that is nominally open to tourism. Most expeditions take place in November thru January, during the Antarctic summer/day.
Roald Amundsen and Robert Falcon Scott both explored Antarctica at the same time in 1911. Amundsen was aware of Scott's objective, but Scott was not aware th … at Amundsen was right behind him.   Roald Amundsen got there first on 14th of December, 1911. Amundsen reported that he saw no sign of Scott.   Scott reached the South Pole on 17th of January, 1912, acknowledging in his diary that Amundsen had got there a month earlier. The last members of the Scott expedition was found dead by a relief party two years later in 1913.