The MVP system is also used in MAG and Team Fortress 2. In Battlefield 3 there is an MVP award for the player who scored the most points during a round. There is also an MVP 2 and MVP 3 for the second and third most-scoring players during a round. In Counter Strike an MVP is awarded at the end of every round to the player who has done a notable act. Australia often uses the term  Best and Fairest , though the National Basketball League uses MVP for its awards. In many cases the awards are voted on by members of the media. In others the vote is by players, coaches, or umpires. In recent years online polls from the public decide some awards.
The thing is that the MVP award isn't meant to reward people who wrote a great piece of software or wrote a book which is read by a lot of people in the community, it's meant to reward people who spend their free time to help others and build the community. It doesn't matter for the award of 2006 what you've done in 2004, it matters what you've done in the full year prior to the date the award is handed out (Microsoft uses 4 dates during the year to hand out MVP awards).
The award is given to people on a yearly basis. This means that MVPs or non-MVPs are considered equal after a year and if a person has done enough, s/he gets the award, if not, you don't. So you don't lose the award when you're an MVP in say 2005 but you aren't in 2006, you simply didn't get the award in 2006. It doesn't matter for the award of 2006 what you've done in 2004, it matters what you've done in the full year prior to the date the award is handed out (Microsoft uses 4 dates during the year to hand out MVP awards).
The definition of what, most valuable means is left up to those who vote. The voting is limited to two writers in each major league city. The MVP is a very prestigious award; it is named the Kennesaw Mountain Landis Memorial Baseball Award, the first commissioner of Major League Baseball. The current record holder for most MVP's is Barry Bonds, with seven. The regular season MVP is voted on by journalists who belong to the Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA). Voting takes places at the conclusion of the regular season, and winners are announced after the World Series. The first MVP awards handed out after voting by the BBWAA in 1931.
The Most Valuable Player. The player with the most skill, who contributes the most to their team. Used mainly in sports and video games. Unfortunately, this term was hijacked by retards who watch Jersey Shore, who now think it stands for Mike Vinny Paul or some shit. 
This is an abbreviation for Most Valuable Player and is an award given to an individual player for their outstanding achievements during the season. In Major League Baseball, both the American League and National League award an MVP for the regular season. The regular season MVP is voted on by journalists who belong to the Baseball Writers Association of America (BBWAA). Voting takes places at the conclusion of the regular season, and winners are announced after the World Series. The first MVP awards handed out after voting by the BBWAA in 1931.
According to Microsoft, Microsoft Most Valuable Professional (MVP) award is given to exceptional, independent community leaders who share their passion, technical expertise, and real-world knowledge of Microsoft products with others.. The awarded are people who actively share their ... With the introduction of a site dedicated to MVPs, it is now easier to locate an MVP from a specific country and from a specific area of expertise. The need to contact an MVP can be user specific. The most common purpose is for students enrolled in Microsoft Student Partnership (MSP) programs.
But, the beautiful part of baseball is every year any player has a chance to shine, a chance to rise above their true talent level and add valuable wins to their team. This is what the MVP award measures. Maybe they help their team into the playoffs, like Justin Verlander. Maybe, like Bautista, their performance separates them from other players, and maybe, as in the case of the Dodgers' Kemp, they help bring a dying team back to life. 
RE: True Meaning of MVP? A MVP award should go to the player who is MOST VALUABLE to his TEAM, and not himself, or the most popular player, or one who is spoken of more often than another. LeBron, while I like him on or off the court is not the MVP this season. We expect him to perform as he does night in night out, however, he isnt most... LeBron, while I like him on or off the court is not the MVP this season. We expect him to perform as he does night in night out, however, he isnt most vaulable to hsi team, a supporting cast who is most inconsistent.
MVP. (in the US and Australia) abbreviation for. 1. (General Sporting Terms) most valuable player: the man or woman judged to be the outstanding player in a sport during a particular season or championship. 