1 Some raw fruits and vegetables can make diarrhea worse. 2  Try soups made with cooked asparagus tips, beets, carrots, peeled zucchini, mushrooms, or celery; tomato puree; or a baked potato without the skin. 3  Avoid caffeinated, alcoholic, or carbonated beverages and very hot or cold foods. Changes in your diet can help. Drink plenty of fluids that contain key chemicals and minerals so you don't become dehydrated. Beverages with potassium in them, such as fruit juice and sports drinks, are especially good. Your doctor can prescribe medication if your diarrhea is very bad.
Tips for controlling diarrhea. 1  Try a low-residue diet. 2  This means more cooked foods, fewer raw fruits and vegetables, and fewer bran-based grains, cereals, and breads. 3  Try to limit the fat in your diet. 4  Add less fat to foods, and choose lower-fat versions of foods. 5  You should choose baked foods instead of fried foods. Important Points to Keep in Mind. 1  The foods that have the most fiber are grains (especially bran), whole-grain breads and cereals, fruits, and vegetables. 2  Foods high in soluble fibers (like oats, peas, and beans) have been shown to ease both constipation and diarrhea.
What to eat if you have diarrhea: 1  Eat foods that are high in pectin, such as applesauce, bananas, and yogurt. 2  Pectin, a water-soluble fiber, helps reduce diarrhea. 3  Eat foods that have a lot of potassium, such as fruit juices, sports drinks, potatoes without the skin, and bananas. Changes in your diet can help. Drink plenty of fluids that contain key chemicals and minerals so you don't become dehydrated. Beverages with potassium in them, such as fruit juice and sports drinks, are especially good. Your doctor can prescribe medication if your diarrhea is very bad.
1 Avoid foods that cause gas, such as chewing gum and carbonated beverages. 2  They can irritate your digestive tract. 3  Limit milk and milk products. 4  They may be hard to digest and promote diarrhea. 5  Avoid nuts, raw fruits and vegetables, whole-grain breads, and bran products. Changes in your diet can help. Drink plenty of fluids that contain key chemicals and minerals so you don't become dehydrated. Beverages with potassium in them, such as fruit juice and sports drinks, are especially good. Your doctor can prescribe medication if your diarrhea is very bad.
1 Grains: white rice, plain noodles, refined bakery, cream of wheat, oatmeal, and oat bran. 2  Fruits: skinless apples, bananas, peaches, melons, applesauce, skinless pear and apricots. 3  These foods are high in pectin, a type of soluble fiber that helps reduce diarrhea. 4  Tofu: With soluble fiber, it helps firm up stools. 1 Canned or well-cooked fruits and vegetables may also be easier to digest. 2  Limit your used of dried fruits, berries, rhubarb, legumes (lentils, kidney beans, lima beans), peas, corn, broccoli, spinach and nuts. 3  They may make diarrhea worse for some people.
1 They can promote diarrhea. 2  Avoid foods that cause gas, such as chewing gum and carbonated beverages. 3  They can irritate your digestive tract. 4  Limit milk and milk products. 5  They may be hard to digest and promote diarrhea. 6  Avoid nuts, raw fruits and vegetables, whole-grain breads, and bran products. Changes in your diet can help. Drink plenty of fluids that contain key chemicals and minerals so you don't become dehydrated. Beverages with potassium in them, such as fruit juice and sports drinks, are especially good. Your doctor can prescribe medication if your diarrhea is very bad.
A low-fiber diet limits the types of vegetables, fruits and grains that you can eat. Occasionally, your doctor may also want you to limit the amount of milk and milk products in your diet. Milk doesn't contain fiber, but it may contribute to discomfort or diarrhea. Definition. Fiber is the part of fruits, vegetables and grains not digested by your body. A low-fiber diet restricts these foods. As a result, the amount of undigested material passing through your large intestine is limited and stool bulk is lessened.
1 When diarrhea is already a problem, you should eliminate high-fiber foods from your diet for a few weeks and see if that helps. 2  Fruits to skip include pears, apples, most berries, figs, prunes, dates, and raisins. 3  High-fiber vegetables include broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, carrots, artichokes, and peas. 