Generally it is assumed that the typical cigar flavors can best evolve in such a climate. This level of humidity supports an even burning of the cigar. At a relative humidity level of 70%, and a temperature of 64°F (18°C) the air contains approximately 10 grams of water per cubic meter of air. In such an environment, the cigar should absorb the ideal rate of humidity of 14% of its weight. 
If humidity goes higher than 60% for any extended period of time, fungus and molds can set in. If the temperature goes below about 55F for an extended period of time, garlic tends to want to sprout and grow, even if it is not the right time of year (that's why the refrigerator is not a good place to store garlic). We think garlic stores best long term when it is stored at between 55F and 65F and between 40% and 60% humidity. If the humidity stays below 40% for a couple of weeks or more, garlic has a tendency to dry out faster than it otherwise would.
These are usually kept in the first and second part of the refrigerator (never the freezer). This temperature is appropriate for storing vaccines for a short period of time. Keep cool: Store between 8°-15°C (45°-59°F). Store at room temperature: Store at 15°-25°C (59°-77°F). 
Parma ham needs its beauty sleep. So after removing the residual salt, the legs are put to rest in stores (often aired) for 60 to 70 days at a humidity level of 75 percent and a temperature ranging from 34 °F to 41°F. Finally, the legs are put in another cold store called “second salt,” where they stay for 15 to 18 days, according to their weight. During this period, the leg slowly assimilates the salt and loses some humidity. At the end of the salting phase, the weight loss is approximately 3.5 to 4 percent.
The leg is then refrigerated at a temperature ranging from 1°C to 4°C, with a humidity level of approximately 80% for about a week and gets a second thin coating of salt which is left on another 15 to 18 days. depending on weight. Next the hams hang for 70 days in refrigerated, humidity-controlled rooms, at 75% humidity. The meat darkens but will return to its original rosy colour in the final days of curing. The hams are washed with warm water and brushed to remove excess salt and impurities, then hung in drying rooms for a few days.
The guidelines below should be followed: 1  Keep dry storage areas clean with good ventilation to control humidity and prevent the growth of mold and bacteria. 2  Store dry foods at 50°F for maximum shelf life. 3  However, 70°F is adequate for dry storage of most products. 4  Place a thermometer on the wall in the dry storage area. 1 Wait 5 to 8 hours. 2  If the temperature is not 38-40°F, adjust the temperature control. 3  Check again after 5-8 hours. 4  Ensure that refrigerators have enough open, slotted shelving to allow for air circulation around shelves and refrigerator walls to maintain proper food temperatures.
Proper Wine Storage Temperature and Humidity. An ideal temperature for wine storage is 55°F to 57°F (12°C to 14°C) with an average 60% relative humidity. This temperature and relative humidity (RH) will allow the wines to mature slowly, reduce mold growth, keep the corks from drying out, and prevent spoiling of the labels.
Wine is one of the few commodities that can improve with age, but it can also rapidly deteriorate if kept in inadequate conditions. The three factors that have the most direct impact on a wine's condition are light, humidity, and temperature. Historically, the storage of wine was handled by wine merchants. Since the mid-20th century, however, consumers have been increasingly storing their own wine in home-based wine cellar
At 100 percent humidity, water droplets can form on the tubers, which can speed up decay and lead to disease and rot. At less than 90 percent, the tubers dry out and are less appealing to customers. Potatoes are 85 percent to 90 percent water, and during storage they should ideally lose only 4 percent of their weight. 
Temperature and Humidity. Besides light, there are additional environmental concerns, such as temperature and humidity, that can adversely affect a collection. For every 18 degree F (10 C) increase in temperature, it is estimated that chemical reactions in paper double. Relative humidity is a measure of the capacity of air to hold water. This amount varies as temperatures increase or decrease.