Best Answer: Gnosticism is historical rather than an adjective. Gnostics were a sect in early Christian times that maintained that knowledge not faith was the way of salvation. Therefore, they still believed in God but felt they were spiritually superior to others. Gnostic means relating to, or possessing knowledge especially esoteric(private) spiritual knowledge. My friend, do not be alarmed by being told you are gnostic because you cannot state of what religion you are.
GNOSTICISM IS THE TEACHING based on Gnosis, the knowledge of transcendence arrived at by way of interior, intuitive means. Although Gnosticism thus rests on personal religious experience, it is a mistake to assume all such experience results in Gnostic recognitions. Like Buddhism, Gnosticism begins with the fundamental recognition that earthly life is filled with suffering. In order to nourish themselves, all forms of life consume each other, thereby visiting pain, fear, and death upon one another (even herbivorous animals live by destroying the life of plants).
Gnosticism. Gnosticism is a heresy which is made up of a diverse set of beliefs. It is the teaching based on the idea of gnosis (a Koine Greek word meaning secret knowledge), or knowledge of transcendence arrived at by way of internal, intuitive means. While Gnosticism thus relies on personal religious experience as its primary authority, early Christian.
Definition: Gnosticism was a second century heresy claiming that salvation could be gained through secret knowledge. Gnosticism is derived from the Greek word gnosis, meaning to know.. Gnostics also believed that the material world (matter) is evil and that only the spirit is good. 
Best Answer: Hi, The word 'Gnosis' originates from ancient Greek and means 'knowledge'. However, the knowledge it refers to is not that which comes from years of studying books, from degrees, from being an expert in a given field, or from reading widely – but rather, from a direct experience of the truth. Gnostics seek spiritual enlightenment through knowledge. Knowledge of ourselves and knowledge of the Divine. This knowledge is not acquired from books or from what someone tells us to think or believe but is derived through personal investigation and first had experienc
In Gnosticism, the world of the demiurge is represented by the underworld, which is associated with matter, flesh, time and, more particularly, an imperfect, ephemeral world. In Gnostic tradition, the term Sophia (Σoφíα, σoφíα greek for) wisdom refers to the final and lowest emanation Of. God in most if not all versions of the gnostic, Myth sophia births the, demiurge who in turn brings about the creation of. materiality
Gnosis is the common Greek noun for knowledge (in the nominative case γνῶσις f.). In Christian, Islamic, or Jewish mysticism, mystery religions and Gnosticism gnosis generally signifies a spiritual knowledge or religion of knowledge, in the sense of mystical enlightenment or insight. 
of or pertaining to Gnosticism or its adherents; as, the Gnostic heresy. Gnostic (noun). one of the so-called philosophers in the first ages of Christianity, who claimed a true philosophical interpretation of the Christian religion. 
It comes from the word gnosis meaning to know. Gnosticism was a philosophical system built on Greek philosophy. It added a Christian flavor when Christ impacted the world. Promoters of this ancient view were Simon Magus, Marcion, Saturninus, Cerinthus and Basilides. 