What is rld.dll error? Error rld.dll DLL errors are short for Dynamic Link Library errors and when these happen you know it. When a DLL error occurs on your computer you are generally notified via a pop-up style error message that will tell you what kind of DLL error you have. Click here to download rld.dll Repair tool. -----------------------------. Click here to download rld.dll Repair tool. -----------------------------
DLL errors for Windows can be extremely broad and each file will represent a different problem. To be able to use these file name to be able to fix what is wrong a good deal of investigation must be made. Resources: rld.dll free download-DLL-files.com Error The dynamic library rld.dll failed to-Microsoft ... Click here to download rld.dll Repair tool. -----------------------------. Click here to download rld.dll Repair tool. -----------------------------
Purpose: rld.dll. rld.dll is a VIRUS. Stop all work until the virus is removed or you run the risk of spreading the virus to other people. Worse yet, the virus may be doing harm to your computer and your information. rld.dll could be a harmful process. Start this Free Scan to check for threats to your PC Security. This information brought to you by PC Matic SuperShield. Start this Free scan to check your threats to your PCs security.
A bit more about rld.dll…. Rld.dll it is dynamic link library that is a part of Windows component. It is used by many modern games and programs: Sims 4, PES 2014, PES 2013, PES 2012, NBA 2K14 and many more. Usually rld.dll located at Windows\System32 if you are running Windows 32 bit. If rld.dll is missing in one or both directories, program or game that uses this file cannot find it and cannot receive required data, so you get error like that: The program can’t start because rld.dll is missing from your computer. Try reinstalling the program to fix this problem
rld.dll is known to be a bad process. Start this Free scan to check your other threats to your PCs security, like this file. rld.dll could be a harmful process. Start this Free Scan to check for threats to your PC Security. This information brought to you by PC Matic SuperShield. Start this Free scan to check your threats to your PCs security. rld.dll is a Microsoft or Windows process but some versions of this exe carry viruses
If your rld.dll error is related to a specific program, reinstalling Third-Party Software-related software could be the answer. Instructions for Windows 7 and Windows Vista 1  : Open Programs and Features by clicking the Start button. 2  Click Control Panel on the right side menu. 3  Click Programs. 4  Click Programs and Features. If the rld.dll file is not in the DLL Cache, or the DLL Cache is corrupted, you will be prompted to insert the Windows installation disc to recover the original files. To run System File Checker (Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, and 10): 1  Click the Start button. 2  Type  command  in the search box...
Copy file rld.dll to the installation directory of the program that is requesting rld.dll. If that doesn't work, you will have to copy rld.dll to your system directory. By default, this is: Windows 95/98/Me-C:\Windows\System. Windows NT/2000 - C:\WINNT\System32. Windows XP, Vista, 7 - C:\Windows\System32. If you use a 64-bit version of Windows, you should also copy rld.dll to C:\Windows\SysWOW64\
Rld.dll is a type of DLL file associated with Third-Party Software developed by Konami for the Windows Operating System. The latest known version of Rld.dll is 1.0.0.0, which was produced for Windows. If the rld.dll file is not in the DLL Cache, or the DLL Cache is corrupted, you will be prompted to insert the Windows installation disc to recover the original files. To run System File Checker (Windows XP, Vista, 7, 8, and 10): 1  Click the Start button. 2  Type  command  in the search box...