Cardiac muscle: A type of muscle tissue that is found only in the heart and is distinguishable from the two other forms of muscle, smooth muscle (that moves internal organs, such as the bowels, and vessels, such as the artery walls) and skeletal muscle (that powers joints). 
Heart muscle: A type of muscle with unique features only found in the heart. The heart muscle, or cardiac muscle, is medically called the myocardium (myo- being the prefix denoting muscle). 
In particular, the myocardium is the muscle tissue of the heart and is found in between the epicardium and the endocardium. Similar to other types of muscles, the cardiac muscle is formed by the process of myogenesis and originates from its primordial cell, the cardiomyoblast. The skeletal muscle is the muscle attached to the skeleton and is responsible for the voluntary movement of the skeletal system. The smooth muscle is the type of muscle found in the viscera as well as blood vessels of the vertebrates. The cardiac muscle is the muscle of the heart.
Coordinated contractions of cardiac muscle cells in the heart propel blood out of the atria and ventricles to the blood vessels of the left/body/systemic and right/lungs/pulmonary circulatory systems. This complex mechanism illustrates systole of the heart. Cardiac muscle cells, unlike most other tissues in the body, rely on an available blood and electrical supply to deliver oxygen and nutrients and remove waste products such as carbon dioxide. The coronary arteries help fulfill this function.
Definition of CARDIAC MUSCLE. : the principal involuntary-muscle tissue of the vertebrate heart made up of striated fibers joined at usually branched ends and functioning in synchronized rhythmic contraction. ADVERTISEMENT. noun
Click to read more below. Cardiac muscle tissue is an extremely specialized form of muscle tissue that has evolved to pump blood throughout the body. In fact, cardiac muscle is only found in the heart and makes up the bulk of the heart’s mass
cardiac pacemaker, SA node, sinoatrial node, pacemaker-a specialized bit of heart tissue that controls the heartbeat. papillary muscle-any of several muscles associated with the atrioventricular valves; the papillary muscles contract during systole to prevent regurgitation of blood into the atria. 1. cardiac muscle-the muscle tissue of the heart; adapted to continued rhythmic contraction. heart muscle. muscular tissue, muscle-animal tissue consisting predominantly of contractile cells.
Cardiac muscle. Definition. noun, plural: cardiac muscles. (1) The heart muscle of the vertebrates. (2) myocardium. Supplement. The muscles of the vertebrates can be classified into three major types: (1) skeletal muscle, (2) smooth muscle, and (3) cardiac muscle. The skeletal muscle is the muscle attached to the skeleton and is responsible for the voluntary movement of the skeletal system. The smooth muscle is the type of muscle found in the viscera as well as blood vessels of the vertebrates. The cardiac muscle is the muscle of the heart.
An isolated cardiac muscle cell, beating. Cardiac muscle (heart muscle) is involuntary striated muscle that is found in the walls and histological foundation of the heart, specifically the myocardium. Cardiac muscle is one of three major types of muscle, the others being skeletal and smooth muscle. These three types of muscle all form in the process of myogenesis. The cells that constitute cardiac muscle, called cardiomyocytes or myocardiocytes, contain only three nuclei. Cardiac muscle cells, unlike most other tissues in the body, rely on an available blood and electrical supply to deliver oxygen and nutrients and remove waste products such as carbon dioxide. The coronary arteries help fulfill this function.