Note that these times only refer to how long your frozen food will still be of excellent quality when you finally get around to eating it: It's not a safety issue. Frozen food will safely keep in the freezer indefinitely. But its flavor and texture will be vastly better if you stick to these maximum storage times. 
Best Answer: It is generally accepted that meat will keep in the freezer up to a year as long as it was frozen while still fresh, and has been solidly frozen the entire time. Packaging of the meat has an effect on the quality as, for example, vacuum-packed meat will last longer and have little to no freezer burn. 
Beef. Beef in particular freezes well and will last quite a while without sacrificing flavor. Just how long it can be frozen depends on the individual cut and size of the beef. For example, roasts last the longest, up to 12 months when properly wrapped. Optimally, they should be used within six months. Stew and variety cuts are next on the list, lasting around 3 or 4 months. 
Freeze leftovers within 3-4 days. Do not refreeze any foods left outside the refrigerator longer than 2 hours; 1 hour in temperatures above 90 °F. If you purchase previously frozen meat, poultry or fish at a retail store, you can refreeze if it has been handled properly. A freezer full of food will usually keep about 2 days if the door is kept shut; a half-full freezer will last about a day. The freezing compartment in a refrigerator may not keep foods frozen as long. If the freezer is not full, quickly group packages together so they will retain the cold more effectively.
1 How long does ground beef last in the fridge once it is cooked? 2  Cooked ground beef will usually stay good for 3 to 4 days in the fridge and 3 months in the freezer. 1 How long does ground beef last in the freezer for safety purposes? 2  The freezer time shown is for best quality only — foods kept constantly frozen at 0° F will keep safe indefinitely.
Red meat and pork can remain in the refrigerator up to 5 days and can be frozen for 4-12 months. Leftover cooked meat will last 3-4 days in the refrigerator and 2-6 months in the freezer. Ground meats (beef, veal, pork, or poultry) can be refrigerated for 1-2 days and frozen for 3-4 months. Lunchmeats and hot dogs will last two weeks in the refrigerator unopened and should be eaten within 3-5 days of opening (hot dogs can go a couple of days longer). In the freezer they’ll last 1-2 months. Bacon is safe to eat for up to a week in the fridge—but raw sausage should be eaten within two days. Both can be frozen for a month, and some sausage will freeze for twice as long. Eggs can be refrigerated for up to a month raw but no more than a week hard-boiled
And with the use of a zip-seal bag and a permanent marker, you can avoid wasting your good food. Before you put meat in the freezer, you should always write the date on it -- that way you don't have to question how long it's been frozen. And, believe it or not, some meats can last in the freezer for up to one year. 1  Cooked poultry -- 4 months. 2  Uncooked poultry parts -- 9 months. 3  Uncooked whole poultry -- 12 months. 4  Cooked meat -- 2 to 3 months. 
The safest way to defrost frozen meat is in the fridge, the microwave or a bowl of cold water. A rule of thumb for defrosting frozen meat in the fridge is to allow one day for every five pounds (2.27 kilograms). Defrosted meat is safe to refreeze as long as it was thawed in the refrigerator. If there is a power outage, frozen meat should remain safe for approximately two days in a closed, full freezer and one day in a half-full, closed freez
Wrap meat in double cellophane tightly with no air, then wrap in freezer paper tightly and tape up good with no air leaks. If wrapped properly and never allowed to thaw and kept as close to zero meat should be safe to eat for many years. I eat two year old beef, elk and deer all the time. A rule of thumb for defrosting frozen meat in the fridge is to allow one day for every five pounds (2.27 kilograms). Defrosted meat is safe to refreeze as long as it was thawed in the refrigerator.