Gotham is an American crime-drama television series developed by Bruno Heller, based on characters appearing in and published by DC Comics in their Batman franchise, primarily those of James Gordon and Bruce Wayne.
Storyline. In crime ridden Gotham City, Thomas and Martha Wayne are murdered before young Bruce Wayne's eyes. Although the idealistic Gotham City Police Dept. detective James Gordon, and his cynical partner, Harvey Bullock, seem to solve the case quickly, things are not so simple.
FOX's  Gotham  tv show premiered on Sept. 22, 2014, and fans of Batman are already hooked on the new crime drama.
Alfred Pennyworth, the Penguin and more classic Batman characters have been cast in Fox’s upcoming series “Gotham.”. The one-hour drama, from Warner Bros. Television, focuses on the origins of Batman’s ally, Commissioner James Gordon and the villains who made Batman’s hometown famous.
Yesterday at 11:00am ·. Looks like Gotham will soon be Penguin's very own playhouse... Paul Reubens will play the Penguin's father on 'Gotham'Batman fans know that Gotham has featured plenty of Easter eggs and nods to existing Batman lore, but Paul Reubens' casting news has upped the ante. During the show's panel at New York Comic Con this weekend, Robin Lord Taylor, who plays Oswald Cobblepot, a.k.a. the Penguin, announced that Reubens...
http://herocomplex.latimes.com/tv/gotham-fox-tv-series-casting-the-penguin-alfred-and-more/attachment/camren-bicondova/. 9. Fox’s Batman prequel series “Gotham” has cast two major characters — Bruce Wayne and Selina Kyle, the young people who eventually become Batman and Catwoman. David Mazouz, 14, will play a preteen Bruce Wayne who lives a solitary life after his wealthy parents are murdered.
David Mazouz, right, has been cast as young Bruce Wayne, the orphan who eventually becomes Batman, in Gotham.. Above, he is shown with Kiefer Sutherland and Gugu Mbatha–Raw in Touch.. (Kelsey McNeal / Fox). http://herocomplex.latimes.com/tv/gotham-fox-tv-series-casting-the-penguin-alfred-and-more/attachment/touch/.