The cost will depend upon your decision. Apple typically charges no less than $200 to repair a cracked screen, but if you have insurance, you may not need to pay that entire amount. Professional repair companies generally charge between $50 and $170 to repair a cracked screen, depending upon which phone you have.
Purchasing a New Screen. The cost of a new screen will depend upon several variables, including what type of phone you have and where you purchase the screen from. For instance, at some online parts stores, Nokia LCD replacement screens are about $15 while iPhone replacement screens run closer to $50.
1 After taking all three of these things into consideration, your phone screen repair can cost anywhere from $50 to $250. 2  For instance, Best Buy will replace the screen on Samsung Galaxy phones for $229.
1 If you break your phone, this allows you to pay a deductible and get a new phone to replace it. 2  After taking all three of these things into consideration, your phone screen repair can cost anywhere from $50 to $250. 3  For instance, Best Buy will replace the screen on Samsung Galaxy phones for $229.
Originally Posted by dragonfly808 I have no problem spending the $100, I just don't want to send it to HTC and they tell me it'll be $200+ to fix the screen. But $125, maybe even $150 would be better than a refurbished phone from Verizon.
1 Third, you will need to ask your cell phone provider if you are paying for insurance on your device. 2  If you break your phone, this allows you to pay a deductible and get a new phone to replace it. 3  After taking all three of these things into consideration, your phone screen repair can cost anywhere from $50 to $250.
1 For instance, Best Buy will replace the screen on Samsung Galaxy phones for $229. 2  According to a Yahoo! News story, the average cost of repairing a phone can cost $75 to as much as $200.
Re: Fix cracked screen price. Don't know why I never put on USB debugging on her phone. Wanted to see the screen and see if it was on silent. Weird. Keys light up when a phone call comes in. No sound or vibration. But vibration comes on when the phone is turned on. Assuming it