Phytate. A phytase (myo-inositol hexakisphosphate phosphohydrolase) is any type of phosphatase enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of phytic acid (myo-inositol hexakisphosphate) – an indigestible, organic form of phosphorus that is found in grains and oil seeds – and releases a usable form of inorganic phosphorus. Four distinct classes of phytase have been characterized in the literature: histidine acid phosphatases (HAPS), B-propeller phytases, purple acid phosphatases, and most recently, protein tyrosine phosphatase-like phytases (PTP-like phytases).
Nutritional and ecological importance of phytate. For global feed production, phytate and phytic-P have significant nutritional and ecological importance: 1  To meet the essential P requirements of the animal, diets are supplemented with P sources such as dicalcium phosphate or meat and bone meal. 2  Inorganic P sources are non-renewable and can be costly for producers. Phytate (inositol hexakisphosphate), which is present in many plant-based feedstuffs, is the main phosphorus (P) store in plants (Cosgrove, 1980). Phytate present in ingredients: The phytate content of plants can vary depending on the type of plant, part of the plant, growing conditions and soil mineral content.
Phytic acid, also called phytate in its salt form, is another anti-nutrient. Phytic acid is the main phosphorus store of many plants, as well as an energy store, and it’s a source of cations and myoinositol (a cell wall precursor). 
Phytic acid (or phytate when in salt form) is an substance found in many foods, but especially soybeans and soy products, oatmeal, corn, peanuts, kidney beans, whole wheat and rye. In the human gut, it acts as an chelater and an anti-nutrient. 
Phytic Acid, also knows as inositol hexaphosphate (IP6), or phytate, is present in the brans and hulls of most grains, beans, nuts, and seeds. The ring you see above is the inositol (a B vitamin) constituent, which then has six phosphate groups attached. 
Ruminants are readily able to digest phytate because of the phytase produced by rumen microorganisms. In most commercial agriculture, nonruminant livestock, such as swine, fowl, and fish, are fed mainly grains, such as maize, legumes, and soybeans. Because phytate from these grains and beans is unavailable for absorption, the unabsorbed phytate passes through the gastrointestinal tract, elevating the amount of phosphorus in the manure. Excess phosphorus excretion can lead to environmental problems, such as eutrophication.
Phytic acid (known as inositol hexakisphosphate (IP6) , inositol polyphosphate, or phytate when in salt form), discovered in 1903, a saturated cyclic acid, is the principal storage form of phosphorus in many plant tissues, especially bran and seeds. It can be found in cereals and grains. Because phytate from these grains and beans is unavailable for absorption, the unabsorbed phytate passes through the gastrointestinal tract, elevating the amount of phosphorus in the manure. Excess phosphorus excretion can lead to environmental problems, such as eutrophication.
Phytase. Phytase is an enzyme that specifically acts on phytate, breaking it down to release phosphorus in a form available to the animal. This greatly reduces the need for supplemental inorganic phosphorus and improves the nutritional value of feedstuffs.
Phytate has been dubbed the anti-nutrient, but it’s also a beneficial phytonutrient. Phytate binds with minerals and prevents their absorption, possibly leading to deficiencies, especially if your diet is high in fiber and whole-grain foods. It’s also an antioxidant and may help fight some cancers. They have double the amount of phytate found in peas, lentils, chickpeas, white beans, walnuts and mung beans. Unlike grains that have a large concentration of phytate in the bran, phytate is equally distributed throughout seeds.
Definition. Phytate is known by eight different names but the most common are phytic acid, inositol hexaphosphate and IP-6. Phytate is found in all plants because it stores the phosphorus needed to support germination and growth. An enzyme called phytase neutralizes the phytate to release the phosphorus. They have double the amount of phytate found in peas, lentils, chickpeas, white beans, walnuts and mung beans. Unlike grains that have a large concentration of phytate in the bran, phytate is equally distributed throughout seeds.