If you aren’t sure how to use the Shake Weight, here are 4 exercises you can do to tone your arms as well as your shoulders and chest. This is the move that you’ll see most in the infomercial and it is really easy to do. This move also uses just one arm at a time and what you do is grasp the Shake Weight and hold it out to the side with your arm bent. Instead of shaking it forward and backward, you shake it from side to side.
For this move you simply hold the Shake Weight with both hands and then bring it up behind your head as if you were doing a triceps extension with the dumbbell. Your elbow should be at a 90-degree angle with your lower arm parallel to the floor. This move also uses just one arm at a time and what you do is grasp the Shake Weight and hold it out to the side with your arm bent. Instead of shaking it forward and backward, you shake it from side to side.
The Shake Weight is a modified dumbbell that oscillates, purportedly increasing the effects of exercise. As a result of the perceived sexually suggestive nature of the product, infomercial clips of the exercise device have gone viral. The Shake Weight has a female and male version, though was initially released as a product designed specifically for women. The female version weighs 2.5 lb.
As seen on TV! The Shake Weight fitness routine utilizes new workout technology called dynamic inertia, which increases muscle activity by more than 300% compared to traditional weights. Use the revolutionary Shake Weight fitness program for Women to shape and tone arms. Shake Weight Fitness Routine for Women with Workout DVD: 1  Scientifically proven results. 2  Get incredible results in just 6 minutes a day.
3. Basic Use. The Shake Weight is one of the newest exercise crazes to hit the scene recently. The Shake Weight is essentially a modified dumbbell which produces an effect involving vibration. Your arm muscles get a workout as a result of this vibration. Weighing about 2.5 pounds, the Shake Weight for women employs a newly invented technology by the name of dynamic inertia.
I just bought the shake weight to use on my off days from weight training and yes it does workout your arms pretty good, it made me want to work out even more because it is more of a cardio type exercise than a weight training exercise, it gets your blood pumping that is for sure. I think the reason some don’t see results in the shake weight is that they are shaking the weight as opposed to keeping arms relatively still while controlling the shaking of the weights. The controlling of the weights as they make the inertia is what makes it a workout.
I bought the Shake Weight 2.5 weeks ago, the first week I used it for 3 minutes a day-every other day(too out of shape for anything more)-into the end of the second week I am up to 6 minutes, every day, and have to say I now see muscles on my arms and have more strength for other exercises. The shake weight works if you let it & definitely do it more than 6 min. I use it along with other exercises 2x a day 17 min intervals (morning & evening). Don’t have time to exercise all day (work/school/life/games etc.). Definitely feel the burn.
Skip to main content. We put the Shake Weight to the test for one month, and the not so fantastic results are in. Find out why the infomercial success wasn't so successful in building firm, fabulous arms and shoulders in just six minutes a day. After four weeks of toting the Shake Weight around, I do not in fact have Michelle Obama arms. And I haven’t tried yet, but it’s unclear whether or not I can crush cans on my forehead. Somehow I doubt it.
1 Pump: Most of the shake weight ads show people using it and feeling the burn in your arms and upper body and they think “wow it works”. 2  You can get a regular dumbell and shake it too and you will feel the same. 3  Or get a bottle, fill it half way, and shake it. Since there is no shake weight study out there, all we need to see is if shake weight goes against the fundamental science of muscle growth and fat loss. 1  Body fat: You cannot burn body fat from specific areas of your body by exercising those specific areas. 2  This is called the myth of spot reduction.
We put the Shake Weight to the test for one month, and the not so fantastic results are in. After four weeks of toting the Shake Weight around, I do not in fact have Michelle Obama arms. And I haven’t tried yet, but it’s unclear whether or not I can crush cans on my forehead. Somehow I doubt it.