Dominus, the French equivalent being sieur, was the Latin title of the feudal, superior and mesne, lords, and also an ecclesiastical and academical title. The academical use was for a Bachelor of Arts, and so is still used at the University of Cambridge and other universities. The shortened form  Dom  is used as a prefix of honor for ecclesiastics of the Catholic Church, and especially for members of the benedictine and other religious orders.
A quick web search turns up one instance of this phrase (outside of WikiAnswers): in a sentence beginning In nomine dominus nostrum Christi. This is evidently intended to mean In the name of Christ our lord, which in correct Latin would be In nomine domini nostri Christi. 3 people found this useful. The ending-at indicates the subjunctive third person present tense: may he hear. Te is the accusative of the prono … un tu (you, singular) Dominus is the nominative of the word meaning The Lord. So: May the Lord hear you. Scott A. Butler.
Origin of DOMINUS. Latin, lord, master — more at dame. This word doesn't usually appear in our free dictionary, but the definition from our premium Unabridged Dictionary is offered here on a limited basis. Note that some information is displayed differently in the Unabridged. Definition of DOMINUS. 1. : an owner as distinguished from a user.
Te is the accusative of the prono … un tu (you, singular) Dominus is the nominative of the word meaning The Lord. The ending-at indicates the subjunctive third person present tense: may he hear. Te is the accusative of the prono … un tu (you, singular) Dominus is the nominative of the word meaning The Lord. So: May the Lord hear you. Scott A. Butler.
The words mean lord, our[s] and of Christ. They don't quite fit together to make a coherent Latin phrase: dominus is nominative (subject form), nostrum is accusative (ob … ject form) and Christi is genitive (possessive form). The ending-at indicates the subjunctive third person present tense: may he hear. Te is the accusative of the prono … un tu (you, singular) Dominus is the nominative of the word meaning The Lord. So: May the Lord hear you. Scott A. Butler.
The phrase additionally appears in Numbers 14:42 : Nolite ascendere: non enim est Dominus vobiscum: ne corruatis coram inimicis vestris. (Hebrew Ayn adonai b'qirb'chem) The expression in Hebrew means to be successful. 
Etymology   From Latin domus, house   [edit] Noun   dominus (genitive dominī); m, second declension   # lord or master of the house. Exaudio is the Latin verb I hear, heed or comply with. The ending-at indicates the subjunctive third person present tense: may he hear. Te is the accusative of the prono … un tu (you, singular) Dominus is the nominative of the word meaning The Lord
Sanctus means holy and dominus means Lord. I *think* mater means mother and amater means 'to love'. The vir usually means something like 'male' or 'man.' I think respice means to take care of or to nurture. The rest... I dunno. 
'Ominus' doesn't seen to be in the latin dictionary however 'omnis' is and it means 'all, every'. I think this is right because the word ominous in the English dictionary is probably derived from this Latin word. Dominus means 'lord, rule, the Lord (Jesus Christ) So in effect I think 'ominus dominus' means 'the Lord is everwhere) omnis = all, every. SCElliott · 8 years ago. Thumbs up. It is the dominion of a spiritual being which constitutes a God; a true, supreme, or imaginary dominion makes a true, supreme, or imaginary God. And from his true dominion it follows that the true God is a Living, Intelligent, and Powerful Being; and, from his other perfections, that he is Supreme or most Perfect.