Most responsible breeders do not allow their puppies to leave to their new homes until the pups are 11 - 12 weeks old. Backyard puppy producers and puppy mills and commercial producers will start getting rid of the pups at 6 weeks but this is not a good time for the puppy to leave for a new home. Update: I am pretty confused right now...some of you said 8 weeks is the best so I decided to adopt my puppy at 8 weeks of age. But then as I read on, some of you said 10-12 weeks and gave explanation and when I read the explanations, I found them rather good reasons to adopt at 10-12 weeks.
Puppies   Puppies can leave their mothers at eight weeks of age. Before the puppies are departed from their mother they have to be fully weined of their mothers milk and … able to willingly chew puppy food. 4 people found this useful. Lisa Harrell. What age can a pitbull puppy leave his mother? It should be 8 weeks, just a little sooner if he/she is eating dry food good and drinking water on it`s own. It is better, however, if puppies can stay with the mom/family for … 10 weeks (or even 12), because it helps with the socialization of the puppy
What age can a pitbull puppy leave his mother? It should be 8 weeks, just a little sooner if he/she is eating dry food good and drinking water on it`s own. It is better, however, if puppies can stay with the mom/family for … 10 weeks (or even 12), because it helps with the socialization of the puppy. The same amount of time as any other breed of dog. The pups should be left with their Mother until 8 weeks of age but you can wean the pups at around 3-4 weeks by giving them … very soft and mushy dry puppy food, but make sure it is easy to lap up at first. Be sure to use a good name brand of puppy food
Puppies   Puppies can leave their mothers at eight weeks of age. Before the puppies are departed from their mother they have to be fully weined of their mothers milk and … able to willingly chew puppy food. 4 people found this useful. The same amount of time as any other breed of dog. The pups should be left with their Mother until 8 weeks of age but you can wean the pups at around 3-4 weeks by giving them … very soft and mushy dry puppy food, but make sure it is easy to lap up at first. Be sure to use a good name brand of puppy food
What is the right age to take a puppy home? 8 weeks is the minimum age pups should leave for new homes. Puppies go through five critical periods...and it's very important that they remain with their mother and littermates until 7-1/2 to 8 weeks of age. 1. During the first 3 weeks of life puppies have next to no mental capacity and their basic needs are provided by their mother.
A puppy's mother provides vital nutrition, warmth, personal care and attention. Weaning a puppy from its mother is a gradual process that should start at about 4 weeks of age and finish between 7 to 8 weeks of age. Therefore, it's not recommended to take a dog away from its mother before 6 weeks of age. The mother's milk provides adequate sustenance until about 4 weeks of age, when the mother and litter's human guardians can begin the transition to solid food. A puppy's vision and hearing only begins to function at about 3 or 4
What you need to know that your puppy should never leave its mother and litter mates before they are at least 8 weeks of age. It frustrates me to read a behaviour related question, to then find out that the dog was allowed to be removed from the mother and siblings before the age of 8 or 9 weeks old. 
What age can puppies leave the litter? A puppy can be taken away from its mother and litter at 5 weeks of age. Alot of people say its not good for the puppy but it does not hurt them in anyway. You can start feedin … g puppies soft gog food at 4 weeks old and if they are eating good they can be taken at 5 weeks old. What age can a pitbull puppy leave his mother? It should be 8 weeks, just a little sooner if he/she is eating dry food good and drinking water on it`s own. It is better, however, if puppies can stay with the mom/family for … 10 weeks (or even 12), because it helps with the socialization of the puppy