A deck materials calculator helps you estimate the number of boards and screws you need to build a deck, based on the dimensions of the deck, joist spacing, width of boards, and board spacing. If you don't have construction software to make the calculations for you, you can still work out the computations yourself. 
These are usually placed 16 inches from centers, except for floors which are to carry very heavy weights. In these the joists are frequently placed 12 inches from centers. To estimate them 12 inches from centers add 1 to the number of feet in length of one wall on which the joists are placed. For example, suppose a building is 32 feet long, and the joists are placed 12 inches from centers. We simply add 1 to 32, which makes 33 the number of joists required for one span. If the spans are unlike, then estimate each span separately. If the joists are placed 16 inches from centers, then multiply the length of wall by ½ and add 1. This will give the required number. Thus if the wall is 32 feet long, then 32 x ½ + 1 = 25, he number
For example, if you double the thickness or number of joists in a floor, the distance the boards can span will increase by approximately 25%. But if you double the width of the boards, the distance the joists can span increases between 80% to 100%, even though you’re using the same board feet of lumber. 
Multiply the number of joists needed along its length you calculated first by the number of joists needed to make a full length joist along the width of the floor and that will be the total amount of joists needed. On the outside edge along the floors length you will need 2″ X 10″ etc.. To figure out how much lumber is needed to sheath the floor just simply multiply the width by the length (equals square footage), add 10% for wastage and that’s the square feet of lumber needed. If using plywood square footage divided by 30. Example 30 ft X 40 ft = 1200 SF divided by 30 = 40 sheets.
Multiply the length of the floor by 12, divide by 16 (16 inches center to center), round-up to the next whole number, add 1 to it, and that will be the number of floor joists needed along its length. Example 22 feet (length) X 12 = 264 divided by 16 = 16.5 rounded-up = 17 + 1 + 18. To figure out how much lumber is needed to sheath the floor just simply multiply the width by the length (equals square footage), add 10% for wastage and that’s the square feet of lumber needed. If using plywood square footage divided by 30. Example 30 ft X 40 ft = 1200 SF divided by 30 = 40 sheets.
Instructions. Measure the length and width of the room in inches. Calculate the number of joists you need by dividing the length of the room by 16. You use 16 because the floor joists will be placed no more than 16 inches apart. Measure the distance between each floor joist. While the standard distance is 16 inches, the gaps may be smaller. Add these measurements together to determine the amount of lumber you need for the blocking.
Estimating Wood and Screws for the Lower Frame. If the width parallel to the joists is W feet, the length perpendicular to the joists is L feet, and the spacing between the joists is J inches, then the length of board needed for the frame is. 12LW/J + W + 2L (feet). The number 12 is for converting joist inches to feet. Assuming that you put two screws per joint, the number of screws needed for the frame is at least. 412L/J + 4. You may need more if you double the joists. Always add about 3%-5% extra for wood and screws so you don't run short of building materials.
To figure the amount of floor joists needed, I use a different method. If the length of a building is 32', I take that length times 4 and divide it by 3 and add 1. The total amount of joists needed in this example is 25 pieces. I use this same method to figure ceiling joists and rafters. Sheet goods like plywood and foam sheathing are figured by using the square footage formula length x width /32 = number of pieces of plywood.