Nine to 10 Days From Packaging Date. According to Mountain View Mushrooms, fresh mushrooms can be stored at 34 to 40 degrees F for up to 10 days from the date of packaging. If purchasing store-bought mushrooms, the packaging date will be printed on the storage container or plastic wrap. Artem Kononenko/Demand Media. 
How to store Mushrooms to extend their shelf life? To extend their shelf life it is best to store them whole and un-peeled in a sealed plastic bag in the fridge. For a longer term option, mushrooms may be frozen for 6-8 months, but they should be cooked first and placed in freezer safe containers. Because of their relative variety, flavor, vitamins including Vitamin D, minerals including copper and versatility in cooking mushrooms are a popular vegetable choice which also contain protein. Yet since wild mushrooms can be very dangerous and even deadly, be sure to get them from a store or other reliable source.
Tips. 1  To extend shelf life, refrigerate fresh mushrooms in a paper bag; do not wrap in plastic or store in airtight container, as this will speed spoilage. 
Storage Secret. The secret to mushroom storage is that they stay fresh longer if you take them out of their container. Wrap them in paper towels placed in open plastic bags (paper bags are even better) and keep them in the fridge. 
Poke a few small holes in the plastic wrap to let air escape (mimicking commercial packaging). All mushrooms can be stored in the fridge or other 40-45° environment. Mushrooms actually continue to grow after picking and refrigeration slows down their metabolism. Lots of theories seem to exist about the best way to store mushrooms: in a paper bag, wrapped in damp paper towels, in a sealed container... And we've tried them all at one time or another!
Mushrooms should never be washed before being stored Once you've picked your mushrooms, wrap them in a damp (not wet) paper towel and put them in a brown paper bag. (This stops them from drying out). Keep your mushrooms at the bottom of the fridge with the other veggies (It isn't as cold as the rest of the fridge). Don't let these delicious mushrooms go to waste. Here is how. Store some in the fridge for this week's delicious mushroom meals and preserve the rest. Mushrooms can easily be dried or frozen for future use. Lucky you, because you have grown your own oyster mushrooms, you know they aren't filled with grit and grime.
The shelf life of mushrooms, like most other fresh vegetables may not have a sell by date, use by date, or best before date so you have to go with purchase date in most cases. Because of their relative variety, flavor, vitamins including Vitamin D, minerals including copper and versatility in cooking mushrooms are a popular vegetable choice which also contain protein. Yet since wild mushrooms can be very dangerous and even deadly, be sure to get them from a store or other reliable source.
Great Information Kathy! Did you know that the length of time mushrooms should be kept for varies with the type? Whites and criminis should be used within 3-4 days, portabellas 5 days, shiitake and enoki 6 days, and oyster 5 days. These timelines are accurate only if kept in the proper conditions; in a brown paper bag in the fridge. 
There is no clear consensus. The conservative answer is that mushrooms should be eaten within two days of purchase. However, some experts maintain mushrooms will keep for up to a week after purchase, particularly if stored in cool, dry, and dark places. Pre-slicing mushrooms can shorten their shelf life. Once sliced, mushrooms quickly oxidate
Mushrooms aren't exactly the hardiest of ingredients! Once home, they can become slimy and develop brown spots within just a few days. If we can't use them all right away, we try to do whatever we can to eek out just a little more life from our mushrooms. Here's how... Lots of theories seem to exist about the best way to store mushrooms: in a paper bag, wrapped in damp paper towels, in a sealed container... And we've tried them all at one time or another!