The peroxidase that you will study is in turnip tissue, from which you will extract it. You will use a phenolic compound called guaiacol (pronounced GWY-uh-kawl; the first syllable rhymes with eye) as the second substrate. [We've not studied phenolic compounds as such in this course. B. Performance of the basic assay (test) procedure, using the enzyme extract. You'll combine measured volumes of enzyme extract with the substrates in a particular manner and then measure the development of colored product. C. Use of the basic assay procedure to study several features of enzyme behavior, such as: 1.
In this lab, you will study an enzyme that is found in the cells of many living tissues. The name of the enzyme is catalase (KAT-uh-LAYSS); it speeds up a reaction which breaks down hydrogen peroxide, a toxic chemical, into 2 harmless substances--water and oxygen. They do not die because your cells use enzymes to break down these poisonous chemicals into harmless substances. Enzymes are proteins that speed up the rate of reactions that would otherwise happen more slowly. The enzyme is not altered by the reaction. You have hundreds of different enzymes in each of your cells.
Catalase is a tetramer of four polypeptide chains, each over 500 amino acids long. It contains four porphyrin heme (iron) groups that allow the enzyme to react with the hydrogen peroxide. The optimum pH for human catalase is approximately 7, and has a fairly broad maximum (the rate of reaction does not change appreciably at pHs between 6.8 and 7.5). Likewise, catalase has one of the highest turnover numbers of all enzymes; one catalase molecule can convert approximately 5 million molecules of hydrogen peroxide to water and oxygen each second.
This reaction normally occurs at a very slow rate, but in the presence of catalase, the reaction is greatly accelerated as the substrate, hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2), binds to the active site of catalase, producing water and oxygen gas. 4. Filter this mixture through cheesecloth into a cold graduated cylinder and record the volume in your notebook. Calculate the g plant tissue/ml buffer concentration of your homogenate. This is your enzyme solution. Label it as 100% catalase.
Catalase is a common enzyme found in nearly all living organisms exposed to oxygen (such as bacteria, plants, and animals). It catalyzes the decomposition of hydrogen peroxide to water and oxygen. Likewise, catalase has one of the highest turnover numbers of all enzymes; one catalase molecule can convert approximately 5 million molecules of hydrogen peroxide to water and oxygen each second.
Collard greens and other cruciferous vegetables are a good source of catalase. Catalase -- found throughout nature in the cells of organisms that grow in the presence of oxygen -- is an enzyme with potent antioxidant properties. The enzyme facilitates the breakdown of hydrogen peroxide into its harmless components -- water and oxygen. Without catalase, the hydrogen peroxide that your body produces during the metabolic process would build up to toxic levels. Cruciferous vegetables, including broccoli, cabbage, kale and collard and turnip greens, are rich in catalase. Eating plenty of these green leafy vegetables also stimulates your body’s production
The peroxidase enzyme will be extracted from live turnip tissue. You must extract (solubilize) the enzyme from the turnip tissue. Since this enzyme is quite a stable one, we can simply extract it in water rather than a buffer. As long as you keep it cold, it should remain active for the whole lab period. B. Performance of the basic assay (test) procedure, using the enzyme extract. You'll combine measured volumes of enzyme extract with the substrates in a particular manner and then measure the development of colored product. C. Use of the basic assay procedure to study several features of enzyme behavior, such as: 1.
Quick Introduction. Previously, we investigated how the enzyme catalase increases the rate of hydrogen peroxide decomposition. Remember that catalase binds with hydrogen peroxide (the substrate) at a specific location called the active site. It is this binding that leads to the rapid formation of the products, water and oxygen gas. Tools. Enzyme Extraction: You will need to extract enough enzyme so that you can do each control and experimental group three times. The extract may be provided for you by the instructor. Catalase Assay: Refer to the online lab manual and last weeks quick link to refresh your memory about the catalase assay procedure.
In this lab, you will study an enzyme that is found in the cells of many living tissues. The name of the enzyme is catalase (KAT-uh-LAYSS); it speeds up a reaction which breaks down hydrogen peroxide, a toxic chemical, into 2 harmless substances--water and oxygen. 