These hormones are called prostaglandins and they are found throughout your body. There are two types of prostaglandins in the body – ‘good prostaglandins’ and’ bad prostaglandins’. The bad ones are called Antagonistic Prostaglandins and they cause: 1  Pain. 2  Inflammation. 3  Fever. 4  Blood clotting. They have a variety of physiological effects on the body including: - Activation of the inflammatory responses at the sites of damaged tissue, and production of pain and fever. When tissues are damaged, white blood cells flood the site to try to minimise tissue destruction. Prostaglandins are produced as a result.
The prostaglandins (PG) are a group of physiologically active lipid compounds having diverse hormone-like effects in animals. Prostaglandins have been found in almost every tissue in humans and other animals. They are derived enzymatically from fatty acids. Every prostaglandin contains 20 carbon atoms, including a 5-carbon ring. They are a subclass of eicosanoids and form the prostanoid class of fatty acid derivatives. Prostaglandins are found in most tissues and organs. They are produced by almost all nucleated cells. They are autocrine and paracrine lipid mediators that act upon platelets, endothelium, uterine and mast cells. They are synthesized in the cell from the essential fatty acids (EFAs).
More modern terminology is use of the word eicosanoid instead of prostaglandin. Conversion of the fatty acids to various prostaglandins is effected via an enzyme complex termed prostaglandin synthetase or cyclooxygenase, which is released from the cell membrane. There are many steps involved in conversion of the fatty acids to prostaglandins. Prostaglandins are not only synthesized when tissues are injured, but are ubiquitous throughout the body. They are not stored but are synthesized upon need. 
Prostaglandins are produced by cells through the work of several enzymes, each of which derives from one or more genes. One type of prostaglandin, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), may play a key role in the tissue destruction that occurs in periodontal disease. In healthy individuals, PGE2 levels are very low. Levels of PGE2 increase in gingivitis and rise significantly in periodontitis.
The prostaglandins are a group of lipids made at sites of tissue damage or infection that are involved in dealing with injury and illness. They control processes such as inflammation, blood flow, the formation of blood clots and the induction of labour. Alternative names for prostaglandins Prostaglandin D2; prostaglandin E2; prostaglandin F2; prostaglandin I2 (which is also known as prostacyclin); a closely related lipid called thromboxane.
Functions of Prostaglandins-some basics. They have a variety of physiological effects on the body including: - Activation of the inflammatory responses at the sites of damaged tissue, and production of pain and fever. When tissues are damaged, white blood cells flood the site to try to minimise tissue destruction. Prostaglandins are produced as a result. - Blood clots form when a blood vessel is damaged. A type of prostaglandin called thromboxane stimulates constriction and clotting of platelet
PGD 2 was found to be closely associated with macrophage markers, as was H-Pgds (Figure 2b). Conversely, Lipocalin prostaglandin D synthase (L-Pgds) , the other PGD 2 synthase, was not associated with PGD 2 and is known to be a weak PGD synthase, suggesting that it was not the source of PGD 2 in adipose tissue. 
Connective tissues are fibrous tissues. They are made up of cells separated by non-living material, which is called an extracellular matrix. This matrix can be liquid or rigid. For example, blood has plasma as its matrix and bone's matrix is rigid.Connective tissue gives shape to organs and holds them in place.
1 Local Hormones: Prostaglandins and leukotrienes are produced by every tissue in the body (except for blood tissue) in response to damaging stimuli. 2  These two hormones mainly affect the cells that are local to the source of damage, leaving the rest of the body free to function normally. Hormones can only affect target cells that have the appropriate receptors. This property of hormones is known as specificity. Hormone specificity explains how each hormone can have specific effects in widespread parts of the body. Many hormones produced by the endocrine system are classified as tropic hormones.