Virginia uses the Standards of Learning (SOL) assessment program to test students in grades 3 through 8. High school students take the SOL End-of-Course tests in various subjects and must pass at least six exams to graduate. Virginia test results provide an indication of whether students are making progress toward mastery of state content standards, and some schools may use test results as a means of determining promotion from one grade to the next. High school students must pass at least six SOL End-of-Course exams in order
In 2009-2010 Virginia used the Standards of Learning (SOL) assessment program to test students in reading and math in grades 3 through 8; in writing in grades 5 and 8; in science in grades in 3, 5 and 8; and in history/social science in grades 3 and 8. Virginia test results provide an indication of whether students are making progress toward mastery of state content standards, and some schools may use test results as a means of determining promotion from one grade to the next. High school students must pass at least six SOL End-of-Course exams in order to graduate.
The SOL is Virginia's statewide, standardized educational assessment test required of students in 3rd, 5th, and 8th grades. Read on to understand the methods and rationale behind the test, as well as tips for how to prepare for it. Along with other considerations, SOL results are used to help determine if a child passes a course or gets promoted to the next grade. On a scale of 600 points a student must obtain a score of 400 or more points to pass each test.
RICHMOND, Va. -- One million Virginia public school students took the state mandated Standards of Learning test in 2014. But 680 parents opted for their children not to take the test. That number is growing, according to grassroots advocacy group RVA Opt Out
You can be a great help to your child if you will observe these do's and don'ts about tests and testing: Do talk to your child about testing. It's helpful for children to understand why schools give tests and to know the different kinds of tests they will take. It's good for your child to be concerned about taking a test. It's not good for him to develop test anxiety.. Test anxiety is worrying too much about doing well on a test. It can mean disaster for your child. Students with test anxiety can worry about success in school and about their future success.
RICHMOND, VA (WWBT) -. Parents across the nation are trying to stop their children from taking standardized state tests. That movement is surfacing in Richmond. Parents across RVA are considering opting their child out of taking the SOL test. The groups RVA Opt Out and Richmond Teachers for Social Justice hosted a meeting for parents Monday evening. Concerns were shared that the focus in the classroom has turned to simply acing a standardized test. Those opposed to SOL tests fear creativity is being drained from teaching, and that children aren't understanding the concepts behind the questions. It is possible to keep your child from taking SOL tests. Even though schools are required to give the exams, parents can choose to remove their children. Schools are mandated by the state, and mandated federally to (administer the tests)
Finding the right tutor for your child and schedule can be difficult. When looking for someone to help prepare your child for the SOL tests, make sure the tutor is state-certified. These tutors are up-to-date on state standards that will be included on the tests. If scheduling or transportation is a factor, consider an online tutoring center. Along with other considerations, SOL results are used to help determine if a child passes a course or gets promoted to the next grade. On a scale of 600 points a student must obtain a score of 400 or more points to pass each test.
In September 1997, the Board of Education established new Standards of Accreditation (SOA) for public schools in Virginia that link statewide accountability tests to the SOL and hold students, schools, and school divisions accountable for results. In October 2005, the state reported that 92 percent of the Commonwealth’s 1,834 schools received accreditation ratings for 2005–2006, with students meeting or exceeding state achievement objectives on Standards of Learning (SOL) tests and other statewide assessments in the four core academic areas.