Justinian code-the legal code of ancient Rome; codified under Justinian; the basis for many modern systems of civil law. jus civile, Roman law, civil law. 
Confidence votes 72. The Justinian Code is a legal code that the emperor Justinian made in 538 B.C.E. about much of the Byzantine life and served the Byzantine Empire for 900 years. Also known as, Corpus Juris Civilis, Justinian's code is a formal revising of Roman law. It was his greatest accomplishment and is still around today and used by British government. it was a collection of books commissioned by the emperor Justinian I called Corpus Juris Civilis (Body of Civil Law). It was also dubbed Justinian Code in the 16th century. A first edition was published in 529 and a second one in 534.
Justinian Code, was the result of Emperor Justinian's desire that existing Roman law be collected into a simple and clear system of laws, or code.. It is called Justinian Code because it was because of the Emperor Justinian that it came about, and it was actually compiled by a group of scholars headed by a minister named Tribonian. Source(s): http://tinyurl.com/mda8ku.
This compilation is sometimes referred to as Justinian's Code, but in fact the Code was only one element. The compilation of Justinian actually consisted of three different original parts: the Digest (Digesta), the Code (Codex), and the Institutes (Institutiones). By the reign of the emperor Justinian I (ruled 527-565 CE), the vast territories of the Roman Empire in Europe, North Africa, and the East had for centuries been politically and culturally divided into the Western Empire and the Eastern, or Byzantine, Empire.
• JUSTINIAN CODE (noun). The noun JUSTINIAN CODE has 1 sense: 1. the legal code of ancient Rome; codified under Justinian; the basis for many modern systems of civil law. Familiarity information: JUSTINIAN CODE used as a noun is very rare. Hypernyms (Justinian code is a kind of...): legal code (a code of laws adopted by a state or nation). Domain member category: addiction ((Roman law) a formal award by a magistrate of a thing or person to another person (as the award of a debtor to his creditor); a surrender to a master).
The Justinian Code was directed by Tribonian—a prominent official in Justinian’s court.Tribonian’s team was authorized by Justinian to edit what they included into the Justinian code; however, to what extent they amended the previous code is not recorded because the majority of original texts did not survive. The Four Parts of the Justinian Code: The Codex of the Justinian Code was the first completed part; the codex of the Justinian code was finished on April 7 of 529 BC. The Codex was compiled in Latin and the majority of the imperial pronouncementswere dated back to the time of Hadrian
Report Abuse. Justinian Code, was the result of Emperor Justinian's desire that existing Roman law be collected into a simple and clear system of laws, or code.. Tribonian, a legal minister under Justinian, lead a group of scholars in a 14-month effort to codify existing Roman law. The result was the first Justinian Code, completed in 529. This code was later expanded to include Justinian's own laws, as well as two additional books on areas of the law. In 534, the Justinian Code, made up of the Code, the Digest, and the Institutes, was completed. It is called Justinian Code because it was because of the Emperor Justinian that it came about, and it was actually compiled by a group of scholars headed by a minister named Tribonian. Source(s): http://tinyurl.com/mda8ku.
The Justinian code, which is now referred to as the Corpus Juris, refers to a collection of landmark works in jurisprudence, issued from 529 to 534 by Justinian I, a prominent Eastern Roman Emperor. The Four Parts of the Justinian Code: The Codex of the Justinian Code was the first completed part; the codex of the Justinian code was finished on April 7 of 529 BC. The Codex was compiled in Latin and the majority of the imperial pronouncementswere dated back to the time of Hadrian