A. If you are using your vehicle wrap as signage, there is no more cost-effective advertising method available. It has been proven that the cost per impression (CPI) of vehicles wraps is less than other forms of advertising such as billboards, television, radio, and yellow pages. A. No. In most cases vehicle wraps will not damage factory paint jobs. Wraps do not stick to rust. If your vehicle has chipping paint a wrap may pull the chipping paint when removed.
Vehicle Wrap Pricing. Our vehicle wrap pricing averages in price from $1500-3000 & up. There are some wrap shops doing wraps for $1000-1500, using lower quality materials that can potentially damage your vehicle paint upon removal. Pricing includes the overall square footage of the car along with installation and design of the vehicle wrap. Some cars are much easier to install and we categorize these wraps as low level installations.
Mid-Size Vehicle Wrap Cost. Vans, trucks, SUV’S, and small box trucks will be in the $2000 range for a full wrap, but a full wrap isn’t always necessary. For example, the graphics on the original West Coast Taco Food Truck isn’t a full wrap, but a set of well positioned decals on a black surface. A full wrap on an average size car is going to be closer to the low end of the range. Depending on the model it could be $1500 or less. Damage to the substrate, removal of existing graphics, extensive artwork, or expensive specialty adhesive vinyl will add to the cost.
The additional labor associated with this level of detail increases the cost of this type of a color change vehicle wrap relative to a standard advertising car wrap. GENERAL COSTS SUMMARY (for most cars, vans, trucks). 1  Wrap design : $250 (partial wrap) -$350 (full wrap), including up to 2 revisions. 2  Partial wraps: typically $1,200 - $2,000 after design is complete. Obviously, there is a big difference in designing and installing a wrap for a golf cart as compared with a custom trailer wrap, but the basic building blocks of a quote are the same. We take several things into account when figuring up the cost of a vehicle wrap.
1 Vinyl car wraps protect your OEM paint and are 100% removable. 2  Warranties and/or lease agreements remain valid. 3  Painting can void warranties, increase the cost of insurance, and is not even an option with a lease. 4  Cost for a vinyl vehicle wrap is considerably less than a comparable paint job. 1 Cost for a vinyl vehicle wrap is considerably less than a comparable paint job. 2  Vinyl car wraps wear as well as, or better than paint – when properly cared for. 3  Think of it like a skin for your laptop or a silicon cover for your phone. 4  The vinyl can take a beating protecting the vehicle’s paint underneath.
And for that matter, what would it cost to do a custom vinyl wrap for my truck, my trailer, my golf cart ... As with many situations in life, the correct answer is it depends.. If you're looking for car and vehicle wraps in the Nashville TN area, read on! Obviously, there is a big difference in designing and installing a wrap for a golf cart as compared with a custom trailer wrap, but the basic building blocks of a quote are the same. We take several things into account when figuring up the cost of a vehicle wrap.
A vehicle wrap can range from $1500 to $4000+, but there are many variables, including the following: The difference in cost between a wrap and applying plotter-cut decals can be substantial. 
At that time, we shared ranges of vehicle wrap costs and a few of the variables that affect price. In 2012, we stated a full wrap could run $1500 to $3000 or more. Since then, we’ve completed wraps for under $1500 and over $4000. A full wrap on an average size car is going to be closer to the low end of the range. Depending on the model it could be $1500 or less. Damage to the substrate, removal of existing graphics, extensive artwork, or expensive specialty adhesive vinyl will add to the cost.
The Cost of Wrapping a Car. A full wrap on an average size car is going to be closer to the low end of the range. Depending on the model it could be $1500 or less. Damage to the substrate, removal of existing graphics, extensive artwork, or expensive specialty adhesive vinyl will add to the cost.