Unicorns are a symbol of purity. In Art, the unicorn often represents Christ. Unicorns can also represent strength and majesty: they are featured on the Royal Arms of both … Scotland and the United Kingdom. Unicorns are often referred to as 'one horned majesty', therefore, the true symbol of a unicorn is its horn. A unicorn is a animal of legends and folklore. It is said to have  the body of a horse, tail of a lion and a single spiraled horn.  Some legends say it will run from everyon … e but a young maiden. Then  it will lay its head in her lap and fall asleep
The unicorn is a legendary animal that has been described since antiquity as a beast with a large, pointed, spiraling horn projecting from its forehead. Golden coins known as the unicorn and half-unicorn, both with a unicorn on the obverse, were used in Scotland in the 15th and 16th century. In the same realm, carved unicorns were often used as finials on the pillars of Mercat crosses, and denoted that the settlement was a royal burgh.
Unicorn. The unicorn is a legendary animal from European folklore that resembles a white horse with a large, pointed, spiraling horn projecting from its forehead, and sometimes a goat's beard and cloven hooves. A heraldic representation of such a beast used as a charge or as a supporter; as in the arms of Great Britain and of Scotland. unicorn (Noun). In various Bible translations, used to render the Latin unicornis or rhinoceros (representing Hebrew u05E8u05D0u05DD); a reem or wild ox.
In heraldry, a unicorn is often depicted as a horse with a goat's cloven hooves and beard, a lion's tail, and a slender, spiral horn on its forehead (non-equine attributes may be replaced with equine ones, as can be seen from the following gallery). Golden coins known as the unicorn and half-unicorn, both with a unicorn on the obverse, were used in Scotland in the 15th and 16th century. In the same realm, carved unicorns were often used as finials on the pillars of Mercat crosses, and denoted that the settlement was a royal burgh.
History of the Unicorn Symbol. The unicorn is one of a very few mythological creatures that are considered to be beneficial in almost all traditions. The unicorn is universally beautiful, mysterious and difficult to capture or tame. A person with the ability to see a unicorn may have a wish granted as a reward. Unicorns are often reputed to have the ability to fly. Some unicorns are believed to be able to speak to all kinds of other creatures. In modern literature, the lure and mystery of unicorns remains.
Summary of Traditions. The unicorn has symbolized many things throughout history, and it is depicted in many ways. Some descriptions include: a horse with a horn, a beast resembling a rhinoceros, an ass with a horn, a goat-like creature, a stag, and sometimes a combination of these and other animals. 
If you look up the word “unicorn” in the Webster’s New World Dictionary, it says: Unicorn – A mythical horselike animal with a single horn growing from its forehead. This is what most of us think of when we hear the word “unicorn.” We think of a horse with a horn growing from its head. This is how unicorns are depicted in movies, cartoons, paintings, etc. [ Download File ].
Relevance. Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Well, the unicorn reference could mean a lot of different things, in slang; primarily it means an object of desire who is unique. Spicy is probably a compliment, judging by the definitions of unicorn (link below) - maybe like calling a Latina spicy or a redhead fiery. 
In European folklore, the unicorn is often depicted as a white horse-like or goat-like animal with a long horn and cloven hooves (sometimes a goat's beard). Golden coins known as the unicorn and half-unicorn, both with a unicorn on the obverse, were used in Scotland in the 15th and 16th century. In the same realm, carved unicorns were often used as finials on the pillars of Mercat crosses, and denoted that the settlement was a royal burgh.