Further to previous answers, cress grows remarkably quickly. Small leaves will form by around day two, and the cress can be cut and slapped into a cheese sandwich in about a week. If the cress is being grown for you by a child, remember to make enthusiastic ''mmmmmmm!'' noises as you eat the sandwich and tell them it tastes delicious. I speak from experience. If we had a population growth of only 0.2% a year, after 10,000 years, the population would grow from 2 to 951,141,889. 1  If we have been alive for so long then how come there aren't so many people? 2 
Alternatives to Growing Cress: Growing cress certainly easy and a really good hobby to get the kids interested in. However, sprouting mung beans and other seeds gives you a much higher yield for the same amount of work! Check out how to grow Bean Sprouts here: Bean Sprouts are Healthy and Easy to Grow. As a comparison here are some bean sprouts started at the same time as the cress. After four days they are ready to eat!
Day One The cress seeds just absorb water and swell up. Make sure they do not get dry at this stage. Day Two Just starting to germinate. Push the seedlings gently into the towel to make sure the roots are in contact with the moisture. However, sprouting mung beans and other seeds gives you a much higher yield for the same amount of work! Check out how to grow Bean Sprouts here: Bean Sprouts are Healthy and Easy to Grow. As a comparison here are some bean sprouts started at the same time as the cress. After four days they are ready to eat!
1 The cress on average takes about one week to grow. 2  This cress is great for salads. 3  An average packet of cress should give several crops. 4  If you don't have two dishes just cover the top of the dish with the cress in, with another piece of kitchen roll. 5  This task will work the best in the summer or late spring. 
1 used & new available from $3.99. Take a Frugal Tip from the MeanyGoat and start sprouting seeds and growing cress today and you will be eating the produce by next week! How long does cress take to grow, Pretty darn quickly!! The MeanyGoat lives in France but works in Switzerland and has many years of experience living a frugal lifestyle. However, sprouting mung beans and other seeds gives you a much higher yield for the same amount of work! Check out how to grow Bean Sprouts here: Bean Sprouts are Healthy and Easy to Grow. As a comparison here are some bean sprouts started at the same time as the cress. After four days they are ready to eat!
Cultivating Garden Cress Crops Indoors. Garden cress is a fast growing cool-weather plant and the sprouts will be ready for harvest 15 to 20 days after sowing. If you want to have a constant supply of garden cress, sow seeds every 10 days and you will always have fresh garden cress available! To successfully grow garden cress indoors on soil or on paper towels, follow the step-by-step instructions below:
Best Answer: If you are growing indoors the seeds will germinate in a couple of days and be tall enough to cut within 2 weeks. If you want to grow using just water take a few sheets of kitchen roll and place in a small tray and moisten. Lay the seeds on top, put in a warm sunny place such as a windowsill and keep moist-tepid water is best and in 2-3 days the cress appears. If you cut the cress when it is tall enough it will sprout again.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: If you are growing indoors the seeds will germinate in a couple of days and be tall enough to cut within 2 weeks. If you want to grow using just water take a few sheets of kitchen roll and place in a small tray and moisten. Lay the seeds on top, put in a warm sunny place such as a windowsill and keep moist-tepid water is best and in 2-3 days the cress appears. If you cut the cress when it is tall enough it will sprout again.
Sow cress in the garden early in spring, as early as 4 or 6 before the last frost, or grow cress indoors year round. Cress is quick growing from seed; it will be ready for harvest 15 to 20 days after sowing. Sow successive crops until mid summer. Sow cress again in early autumn for autumn and winter harvest. Cresses are cool-weather annuals. Sow cress in the garden early in spring, as early as 4 or 6 before the last frost, or grow cress indoors year round. Cress will germinate in about 14 days at 45°F. Garden cress is quick growing from seed; it will be ready for harvest 15 to 20 days after sowing. Curly cress requires 40 to 50 days to reach maturity but harvest can begin 15 days after sowing