1 One of the benefits of stevia is that it contains a 702 ppm level of iron which can stimulate the production of hemoglobin. 2  Stevia and other artificial sweeteners that have been approved for use in the US do not appear to pose any health risks when used in moderation. 1 Stevia is much sweeter than sugar-the extract can taste 250-300 times sweeter than table sugar. 2  The extract is contained in a number of food items in the US such as energy bars, candies, protein drinks and some teas.
Sweet. Reb-A (Stevia Extract) is an all-natural sweetening ingredient extracted from the stevia leaf that is used in powder or liquid form to heighten sweetening intensity and improve taste. 
Taste. The leaves of stevia can be used directly for sweetening, but the taste quality is not as good as the purified glycosides. Stevioside is about 200 times as sweet as sucrose, with significant bitter taste and licorice-like taste at higher concentrations. Its onset is slower than sucrose, and its sweetness lingers. What it is: Stevia is a plant, Stevia rebaudiana, native to Paraguay. The plant has been used as a sweetener for centuries by the Guarani guaraní people of this. Region the plant contains a number of diterpene glycosides that taste; sweet the main ones are stevioside and Rebaudioside. a
It’s a sugar substitute called stevia. Stevia is about 100 to 300 times sweeter than sugar, but has no carbohydrates, calories, or artificial ingredients. Not everyone likes the way it tastes. Some people find it bitter, but others think stevia tastes like menthol. Try it in your morning coffee or sprinkled over your oatmeal to see if you like the taste. 
stevia side effects. stevia side effects. It has 2 main glycosides: stevioside and rebaudioside A (also known as Reb A) or in another words Steviol glycosides are: Stevioside and Rebaudioside A (Reb A). They are compounds of Steviol glycoside which extracted from this herb leafs and they are responsible for sweetness. Stevia side effects. 1985 scientists reported that two of the Steviol glycosides: stevioside and rebaudioside. These compounds are from this plants leaf. They are mutagen and have negative events. But this proposition was criticized with comparison that even distilled water could be mutagen.
Stevia Plant. For those of you that are hearing about stevia for the first time, it is a plant that is typically grown in South America, and while its extract is 200 times sweeter than sugar, it does not raise blood insulin levels. That’s what makes it so popular. 
Common Names to use in the list of ingredients. As the common name Steviol glycosides is not listed in boldface type in column. of table B.01.010.1(3)(a) of the Food and Drug Regulations, a variety of other prescribed names may be used. 
Related Products. Our team of scientists has experience in all areas of research including Life Science, Material Science, Chemical Synthesis, Chromatography, Analytical and many others. Technical Service: