The wait is almost over for Orange is the New Black fans eager to reunite with Piper, Red, Crazy Eyes and Taystee. Netflix announced Monday the third season of its award-winning comedy drama would premiere on the streaming service June 12. 
If you know anything about the American penal system, then you know it was probably not the calm retreat she had hoped for. As made perfectly clear in Jenji Kohan’s magnificent and thoroughly engrossing new series, “Orange Is the New Black” (available for streaming on Netflix), prison is still the pits. 
Orange Is the New Black Season 3 premiered on Netflix on June 11. Plus, the addition of newcomer Stella Carlin (Ruby Rose) added a layer of complexity to Piper (Taylor Schilling) and Alex's (Laura Prepon) relationship, and allowed viewers to see just how ruthless Piper can be. Daya (Dascha Polanco) on Season 3 of Orange Is the New Black. Credit: Netflix.
With March’s announcement that Orange Is the New Black will compete at the Emmys as a comedy, Netflix finds itself in the enviable position of possibly winning the awards for ‘Best Comedy” and “Best Drama” in the same year. While Netflix doesn’t publicly release exact viewing data for its original programs, reports have pegged Orange Is the New Black as the streaming giant’s most watched show, eclipsing even the slightly more critically beloved Cards for that honor.
Emmys: 'Orange is the New Black' is a... Season 3 of Orange Is the New Black has yet to start—it’s slated for June 12—but season 4 is already on lockdown. 
In July 2011, the media announced that Lionsgate Television and Netflix were negotiating adding Orange Is the New Black, based on Piper Kerman 's memoir, to the Netflix original series lineup. Netflix finalized the deal as a 13-episode straight-to-Web series. The third season, consisting of 13 episodes, premiered on June 11, 2015. On April 15, 2015, the series was renewed for a fourth season, scheduled to premiere in 2016. Orange is the New Black is Netflix's most watched series.
In decidedly unsurprising, yet still welcome news, Netflix has renewed its hit prison dramedy Orange Is the New Black for a third season. While Netflix doesn’t publicly release exact viewing data for its original programs, reports have pegged Orange Is the New Black as the streaming giant’s most watched show, eclipsing even the slightly more critically beloved Cards for that honor.
Today the subscription streaming service has stated that its hit prison-oriented drama, Orange is the New Black, will officially be returning for Season 4. That shows a lot of confidence in the dramedy, as Jenji Kohan s series hasn t even premiered its third season, yet. Orange is the New Black is not the only big program headed to Netflix this summer. The streaming service also has a slew of comedy specials, as well as new shows Grace and Frankie and Sense8 premiering over the next few months.
As of April, it has been confirmed that Prepon will indeed return to series regular status for season 3. In fact, it was Prepon herself that first broke the news of Orange Is the New Black ‘ s renewal – with a caption on Instagram: Netflix has since backed up Prepon’s statement. While Netflix doesn’t publicly release exact viewing data for its original programs, reports have pegged Orange Is the New Black as the streaming giant’s most watched show, eclipsing even the slightly more critically beloved Cards for that honor.
4117 votes Back To Poll ». Orange Is The New Black 's third season debuted on Netflix exactly a week ago, and we finally finished watching all 13 of the show's best and most emotionally challenging episodes yet. Plus, the addition of newcomer Stella Carlin (Ruby Rose) added a layer of complexity to Piper (Taylor Schilling) and Alex's (Laura Prepon) relationship, and allowed viewers to see just how ruthless Piper can be. Daya (Dascha Polanco) on Season 3 of Orange Is the New Black. Credit: Netflix.