Squalene is a hydrocarbon and a triterpene, and is a natural and vital part of the synthesis of all plant and animal sterols, including cholesterol, steroid hormones, and vitamin D in the human body. Squalene is used in cosmetics, and more recently as an immunologic adjuvant in vaccines. Squalene has been proposed to be an important part of the Mediterranean diet as it may be a chemopreventive substance that protects people from cancer. 
1 Squalene is also found in a variety of foods, cosmetics, over-the-counter medications, and health supplements. 2  Squalene is commercially extracted from fish oil, and in particular shark liver oil. 3  Squalene used in pharmaceutical products and vaccines is purified from this source. What is squalene? 1  Squalene is a naturally occurring substance found in plants, animals, and humans. 2  Squalene is also found in a variety of foods, cosmetics, over-the-counter medications, and health supplements. 3
1 Squalene is a naturally occurring substance found in plants, animals, and humans. 2  It is manufactured in the liver of every human body and circulates in our bloodstream. 3  Squalene is also found in a variety of foods, cosmetics, over-the-counter medications, and health supplements. What is squalene? 1  Squalene is a naturally occurring substance found in plants, animals, and humans. 2  Squalene is also found in a variety of foods, cosmetics, over-the-counter medications, and health supplements. 3  Squalene is commercially extracted from fish oil, and in particular shark liver oil.
Squalene is an oil. Without it, the new vaccine will not work any better that the old one. In fact, for all intents and purposes, without squalene the new vaccine is the old one. What makes squalene so important is it’s proven ability to stimulate a strong response from the immune system. Canada to order 50.4 million H1N1 (SWINE FLU) vaccine doses-One dose should be enough, because: GlaxoSmithKline is using an additive (AS03 - SQUALENE based) known as ADJUVANT. Adjuvants are used to boost immune response from vaccines [italics, caps and info on AS03 mine].
When a virus is injected into your body in a vaccine, and especially when combined with an immune adjuvant like squalene, your IgA immune system is bypassed and your body's immune system kicks into high gear in response to the vaccination. Your immune system recognizes squalene as an oil molecule native to your body. It is found throughout your nervous system and brain. In fact, you can consume squalene in olive oil and not only will your immune system recognize it, you will also reap the benefits of its antioxidant properties.
An adjuvant is an ingredient of a vaccine that helps create a stronger immune response in the patient’s body. In other words, adjuvants help vaccines work better. Some vaccines made from weakened or dead germs contain naturally occurring adjuvants and help the body produce a strong protective immune response. Vaccine adjuvants improve the body's immune response and often allow for smaller amounts of an inactivated virus or bacteria to be used in a vaccine.
1 Squalene is a component of some adjuvants that are added to vaccines to enhance the immune response. 2  MF59, an adjuvant produced by Novartis and added to the FLUAD flu vaccine, is such an example. 3  Squalene by itself is not an adjuvant, but emulsions of squalene with surfactants do enhance the immune response. What is squalene? 1  Squalene is a naturally occurring substance found in plants, animals, and humans. 2  Squalene is also found in a variety of foods, cosmetics, over-the-counter medications, and health supplements. 3  Squalene is commercially extracted from fish oil, and in particular shark liver oil.
An adjuvant is a substance that is added to a vaccine to increase the body's immune response to the vaccine. Vaccines containing adjuvants are tested for safety in clinical trials before they are licensed for use in the United States, and they are continuously monitored by CDC and FDA. Vaccine adjuvants improve the body's immune response and often allow for smaller amounts of an inactivated virus or bacteria to be used in a vaccine.
Squalene is a component of some adjuvants that is added to vaccines to enhance the immune response. A naturally occurring substance found in plants, animals and humans, squalene is synthesized in the liver and circulates in the human bloodstream. Squalene is commercially extracted from fish oil – in particular shark-liver oil – and is purified from this source when used in pharmaceutical products and vaccines. Squalene alone is not an adjuvant, but emulsions of squalene with surfactants enhance the immune response when added to antigens.