Fabry disease is caused by mutations in the GLA gene. This gene provides instructions for making an enzyme called alpha-galactosidase A. This enzyme is active in lysosomes, which are structures that serve as recycling centers within cells. The progressive accumulation of this substance damages cells, leading to the varied signs and symptoms of Fabry disease. GLA gene mutations that result in an absence of alpha-galactosidase A activity lead to the classic, severe form of Fabry disease. Mutations that decrease but do not eliminate the enzyme's activity usually cause the milder, late-onset forms of Fabry disease that affect only the heart or kidney
Mutations of the GLA gene in Korean patients with Fabry disease and frequency of the E66Q allele as a functional variant in Korean newborns. Beom Hee Lee, Sun Hee Heo, Gu-Hwan Kim, Jung-Young Park, Woo-Shik Kim, Duk-Hee Kang, Kyung Hoon Choe, Won-Ho Kim, Song Hyun Yang and Han-Wook Yoo. 
Mutations that eliminate the activity of the alpha-galactosidase A enzyme lead to the severe, classic form of Fabry disease, which typically begins in childhood. Mutations that reduce but do not completely eliminate the enzyme's activity usually cause milder, late-onset forms of the disorder. Fabry disease-caused by mutations in the GLA gene. More than 370 mutations in the GLA gene have been identified in people with Fabry disease. Most of these genetic changes are unique to single families.
There are over 600 mutations in the GLA gene that is responsible for Fabry disease, thus, the severity and range of symptoms may vary among individuals. Absent enzyme activity results in the classic subtype, while patients with the later-onset subtype have residual enzyme activity. Fabry disease is a rare genetic disorder of fat (lipid) metabolism characterized by a deficiency of the enzyme alpha-galactosidase A (previously known as ceramide trihexosidase). The disorder belongs to a group of diseases known as lysosomal storage disorders.
Fabry disease, an X-linked inborn error of glycosphingolipid catabolism, results from mutations in the alpha-galactosidase A gene at Xq22.1. Studies of the mutations in unrelated Fabry families have identified a variety of lesions indicating the molecular genetic heterogeneity underlying the disease. Molecular basis of Fabry disease: mutations and polymorphisms in the human alpha-galactosidase A gene.
Fabry disease is an inherited disorder that results from the buildup of a particular type of fat, called globotriaosylceramide, in the body's cells. Beginning in childhood, this buildup causes signs and symptoms that affect many parts of the body. The progressive accumulation of this substance damages cells, leading to the varied signs and symptoms of Fabry disease. GLA gene mutations that result in an absence of alpha-galactosidase A activity lead to the classic, severe form of Fabry disease. Mutations that decrease but do not eliminate the enzyme's activity usually cause the milder, late-onset forms of Fabry disease that affect only the heart or kidneys
Fabry Disease. Fabry disease causes a buildup of fatty material in the autonomic nervous system, eyes, kidneys, and cardiovascular system. Fabry disease is an X-linked lipid storage disease, meaning that males are affected primarily. Cases affecting females also occur with symptoms ranging from mild to severe. 
Fabry disease: A genetic disease caused by a mutation in the GLA gene, resulting in a deficiency of the enzyme alpha-galactosidase A, also known as ceramide trihexosidase. This enzyme is essential to the metabolism of a fat compound known as globotriaosylceramide. 