1. Select your seeds. One of the many benefits of growing your plants from seed is that you have a much larger variety of plants to choose from. Visit a local nursery or head online to look for the perfect seeds for your garden. 
Soil. When you purchase a potted flowering plant, the pot will contain an appropriate soil mixture for the plant, whether you opt for potted roses or orchids. Some flowering plants, like orchids, are relatively short lived and will never require re-potting. Over time, other plants will grow and need a larger pot. You can re-pot most flowering plants in a generic potting soil mixture, or opt for a soil blend designed for flowers for better results.
You gave them soil, water, sunlight, and warmth. A plant needs all of those conditions in order to grow. You can probably see tiny roots growing from your seeds down into the soil. Plants use roots to get water and nutrients from the soil. You should also be able to see a small green stem sprouting up above the soil. This stem will continue to grow from the nutrients and water it gets from the roots. The plant will eventually grow leaves. 1 You should be able to see the seed from the outside of the cup, but not the top. 2  Repeat all around the cup, leaving a little room to grow in between each seed. 3  Water the soil. 4  It should be moist, but the water should soak in and not stay on top of the soil. 5  Set your cup in a windowsill or another warm, sunny spot.
Growing flowers from seed can be a difficult task for beginning gardeners. Seeds and seedlings are delicate, and the wrong conditions can destroy them fairly easily. In order to achieve the best possible result, plant your seeds indoors into a small, sterile container using professionally packaged potting soil. 
What You Do: 1  Fill the cup about 3/4 full with potting soil. 2  Push a seed along the side of the cup into soil. 3  Water the soil. 4  Set your cup in a windowsill or another warm, sunny spot. 5  Look at your seeds every day and water them whenever the soil looks dry. 1 You should be able to see the seed from the outside of the cup, but not the top. 2  Repeat all around the cup, leaving a little room to grow in between each seed. 3  Water the soil. 4  It should be moist, but the water should soak in and not stay on top of the soil. 5  Set your cup in a windowsill or another warm, sunny spot.
New seeds will grow inside of the flower. The plant uses these seeds to produce new plants. If the plant is a type that produces fruit, such as an apple tree, the flower will slowly turn into a fruit that is still connected to the stem (or a branch) of the plant. 1 You should be able to see the seed from the outside of the cup, but not the top. 2  Repeat all around the cup, leaving a little room to grow in between each seed. 3  Water the soil. 4  It should be moist, but the water should soak in and not stay on top of the soil. 5  Set your cup in a windowsill or another warm, sunny spot.
Germination Begins. When a gardener succeeds in providing the proper environment for seeds to germinate, enzymes within the flower seed awaken. The job of the enzymes is to change the carbohydrates stored in the endosperm into sugars that the embryo can use to germinate and grow. When you understand how a flower grows from a seed, you will be prepared for gardening success. Seeds must have the proper conditions for germination to occur. The seeds must be fresh and healthy. The soil must be high quality, and should be able to drain water away properly.
A flower, sometimes known as a bloom or blossom, is the reproductive structure found in flowering plants (plants of the division Magnoliophyta, also called angiosperms). The biological function of a flower is to effect reproduction, usually by providing a mechanism for the union of sperm with eggs. 
Submit. In order to have the most success in your flower-growing endeavors, it's helpful to learn about some of the basic botanical processes that occur in seed germination. When you understand how a flower grows from a seed, you will be prepared for gardening success. Seeds must have the proper conditions for germination to occur. The seeds must be fresh and healthy. The soil must be high quality, and should be able to drain water away properly.