The evil and greedy chromatic dragons lurk in the dim dungeons and remote lairs guarding fabulous hoards of stolen treasure. From the savage white dragon to the mighty red dragon, the breath of a chromatic dragon brings nothing but death and destruction to those adventurers who seek to claim their gold. Black Dragons. 222 pages on this wiki. A Chromatic Dragon is a variety of dragon in the Dungeons & Dragons universe. They are the evil-aligned counterparts to the metallic dragons. The 4th Editon Draconomicon raised the browns, grays, and purples to chromatic dragon status.
13,349 pages on this wiki. Chromatic dragons are types of dragons that appear in colours. There are four kinds of chromatic dragons, with several different dragons in each kind. From weakest to strongest, based on the standard adult form, the colours are green, blue, red, and black. For more information on all types of dragons, see Dragon (race) 
Chromatic dragons. 29,219 pages onthis wiki. Chromatic dragons are types of dragons that appear in colours. There are four kinds of chromatic dragons, with several different dragons in each kind. From weakest to strongest, based on the standard adult form, the colours are green, blue, red, and black. For more information on all types of dragons, see Dragon (race) 
16,812 pages on this wiki. Chromatic dragons are a type of dragon distinguished typically by a solid, non-reflective coloring of their scales as well, hence the name. Chromatic dragons are also very commonly evil. Black dragons. Black dragons, or skull dragons, are the most vile-tempered and cruel of all chromatic dragons and possess an acid breath weapon. They make their lairs in large caves or underground chambers next to swamps or murky ponds.
Chromatic dragons are true dragons, usually of evil-alignment, as opposed to the good-aligned metallic dragons. Most chromatic dragons simply seek to quench their endless lust for treasure, food, and bloodshed. The scales of these dragons all match the color given in the name. 
Chromatic dragon. Chromatic dragons are true dragons, usually of evil-alignment, as opposed to the good-aligned metallic dragons. Most chromatic dragons simply seek to quench their endless lust for treasure, food, and bloodshed. The scales of these dragons all match the color given in the name. 