I’m glad you asked! As I have mentioned before, preparing for a graduate program and entering the program are not cakewalks. So, you may be having second thoughts about pursuing it or maybe you’re stuck between two choices: graduate school or entering the workforce. If so, I found this really neat article that may help you decide. So the best answer for me was entering into the workforce. I had a great time in college–I double majored (marketing and piano performance); I studied abroad; and I was very involved in clubs and student government. But by senior year, I was a pretty burnt out.
For example, those in pursuit of grad school in fields such as English could have a tough time on their application as opposed to someone pursuing science. Students should first consider their field and determine if on-the-job experience is something that will be of value when it comes time to apply for grad school. It allows for greater employment opportunities, personal growth, and greater recognition and credibility in the workforce. However, after years of higher education, some want a break from the student lifestyle.
Some ambitious students will choose to work and pursue grad school at the same time. This may sound like a lot to handle, but students who take this approach often reap double the rewards. Rather than taking on a paid position, some students elect to volunteer part-time, working around their study schedule. By jcuadmissions November 20, 2014 American college in Rome American university in Rome study abroad in Italy. Undergraduate students hear a lot of conflicting advice when it comes to plotting their course following graduation.
For me, it was a simple decision. I continued to go to school because I was able to do so financially. Although funding was a big part of the decision, I should have considered all the pros and cons of skipping the workforce. Now in hindsight, I can share the good and the bad. So the best answer for me was entering into the workforce. I had a great time in college–I double majored (marketing and piano performance); I studied abroad; and I was very involved in clubs and student government. But by senior year, I was a pretty burnt out.
There are pros and cons to each decision. Graduate school is expensive and time consuming, yet it allows you to further your education in a specific field. It is a tough decision that I will have to make next December, and some students will have to make as soon as this summer. Furthermore, it will give you an opportunity to expand your education, and it will give you more knowledge about your field of study. When you come out of graduate school you will be more educated than a student who went straight into the career world. I also recommend holding a part time job while in graduate school.
Share this post. Many students in today's education field graduate college in heavy debt. It's the harsh reality of the education system, but one that's necessary for a lot of people if they want to earn a college degree. On the other hand, the graduates who are able to find work end up making a lot more than their undergraduate counterparts; the median annual salary plus bonus for a person fresh out of grad school with an MBA is $105,000. Time. Graduate school takes a lot of time, time that many people might not have.
A lot of college grads opt to delay their entry into the workforce however, and instead enroll in graduate school. Grad school isn't the right choice for everybody, but for many it's a good option to consider when deciding whether to further your education or enter the workforce. On the other hand, the graduates who are able to find work end up making a lot more than their undergraduate counterparts; the median annual salary plus bonus for a person fresh out of grad school with an MBA is $105,000. Time. Graduate school takes a lot of time, time that many people might not have.
So, I am a big proponent of working before going to graduate school. To summarize, working for a few years will help you find direction in your life. It will help you figure out if you truly want to go back to graduate school, and possibly help you figure out which academic field is the best fit for you. So the best answer for me was entering into the workforce. I had a great time in college–I double majored (marketing and piano performance); I studied abroad; and I was very involved in clubs and student government. But by senior year, I was a pretty burnt out.
Some graduate school programs actually require you to have work experience before entering their master’s program, but it seems difficult to imagine turning down paychecks and in-turn spending money to go back to school. Furthermore, it will give you an opportunity to expand your education, and it will give you more knowledge about your field of study. When you come out of graduate school you will be more educated than a student who went straight into the career world. I also recommend holding a part time job while in graduate school.
Your Email Address. Zip. Choosing what to do after high school can lead to a consideration of a number of options: join the military, join the Peace Corps, go to college, get a job and enter the workforce. This article looks at the choice of college or work and discusses the pros and cons of college vs work