When it comes to heat resistant gloves, it must be mentioned that the materials vary greatly – some manufacturers use Kevlar, others use woven fabric or carbon while other manufacturers mix several materials for the best results. The heat resistant gloves provide excellent insulation and they are perfect for handling rough, sharp items. Most gloves can withstand direct flame and they allow the worker to get in direct contact with extremely hot surfaces without melting.
Heat-resistant gloves protect the hands when working with extremely hot objects or in high-temperature environments. These gloves are found in a wide range of settings, from research laboratories to the metallurgical industry. Protection gloves / heat-resistant / cowhide / for the automotive industry. Heat-resistant glove,... Protection gloves / heat-resistant / Kevlar® / for the automotive industry. Welding and heat-resistant...
These heat resistant gloves usually use a combination of cotton layers (which come in direct contact with the hand) and Kevlar or carbon threads at the exterior of the glove – the fingertips and the knuckles are usually reinforced as well, and so are the cuffs for a secure fit. The heat resistant gloves provide excellent insulation and they are perfect for handling rough, sharp items. Most gloves can withstand direct flame and they allow the worker to get in direct contact with extremely hot surfaces without melting.
Additional Information. A Sally Heat Resistant Glove is a reusable and lightweight glove that alows you to maintain full stying control while protecting hand and fingers from the heat from styling irons. Versatile for left or right hand styling. 
Heat-Resistant Leather Gloves. Item# CE-GLVLEAM. These heat-resistant leather gloves are very handy in the lab for handling hot or cold items. They are made of thick gray split leather on the outside and lined with insulating fabric on the inside. They have a protective gauntlet that is 6 long and the overall length is 13. One size fits most hands. I use these gloves in a chemistry lab that deals with temps up to 200C and they really get the job done. you can handle these temperatures with ease for about 10 min before you start feeling the heat, perfect pricing, ordering 4 more pairs.
Heat Resistant Gloves. Q Source offers a wide assortment of heat-resistant gloves. You'll find heat-resistant high-temperature gloves up 1400° F, clean room mid-temperature gloves up to 1000° F, and low-heat ESD-safe wave solder gloves from brands like QRP Gloves & Fingercots. 
Heat-Resistant Gloves. [+] Enlarge. When choosing heat-resistant gloves, one first has to determine whether the heat is dry or moist; whether the exposure is thermal or atmospheric; if open flame or spark is present; and of course, what the temperature is in any of these conditions. Abrasion and Heat Resistant Gloves. Heat and flame resistant gloves with anti-abrasion leather or Temperbloc™ palms over string knit or hot mill and lined with Kevlar® or SilaChor®.
Description. Superior's revolutionary new heat-resistant gloves bring together three high-performance materials in one high-functioning glove. In fact, heat resistance used to mean you had to wear a mitt to get the kind of protection you needed. Not anymore
Heat Resistant Gloves. Heat resistant gloves are made using high-quality raw material – the gloves are then chemically treated to give them a fine finish and to prolong their life span, and they can be easily customized to meet the needs of every client. The heat resistant gloves provide excellent insulation and they are perfect for handling rough, sharp items. Most gloves can withstand direct flame and they allow the worker to get in direct contact with extremely hot surfaces without melting.