Prokaryotic. Definition. adjective. Of, or pertaining to, or characteristic of a prokaryote, which is basically an organism lacking a true nucleus. Supplement. Organisms may be grouped in two major groups: prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Prokaryotes include the eubacteria and archaea. Word origin: prokaryote + - ic. 
eu·kar·y·ote. n. Any of various single-celled or multicellular organisms of the domain Eukaryota, characterized by cells that contain a distinct membrane-bound nucleus and by the occurrence of DNA transcription inside the nucleus and protein synthesis in the cytoplasm, in contrast to prokaryotes. 
Prokaryotes. Prokaryotes are 1-celled organisms that do not have a nucleus or any other membrane-bound organelles inside them. The name prokaryote itself actually lets you know that there isn't a nucleus, since pro means before and karyo refers to nucleus. The only organelles, or internal structures that exist in prokaryotes are ribosomes, which make proteins needed by the organism. Prokaryotes include Archaea, bacteria and cyanobacteria. That answers the question about what a prokaryote is.
The distinction is that eukaryotic cells have a true nucleus containing their DNA, whereas prokaryotic cells do not have a nucleus. Both eukaryotes and prokaryotes contain large RNA / protein structures called ribosomes, which produce protein. Eukaryotes are organisms, including humans, whose cells have a well defined membrane-bound nucleus (containing chromosomal DNA) and organelles. The division between prokaryotes and eukaryotes reflects the existence of two very different levels of cellular organization.
Prokaryotic cells lack a nucleus and organelles, though most do have one organelle-the ribosome-in which messenger RNA is translated to protein. Prokaryotic cells' DNA is floating around in the cytosol, whereas Eukaryotic cells store their genetic material in the nucleus. Best Answer: All living organisms are composed of cells. A eukaryotic cell is a cell with a nucleus, which contains the cell's chromosomes. Plants, animals, protists, and fungi have eukaryotic cells, unlike the Eubacteria and Archaea, whose cells do not have nuclei and are therefore termed prokaryotic. In addition to having a nucleus, eukaryotic cells differ from prokaryotic cells in being larger and much more structurally and functionally complex
prokaryote. a unicellular organism lacking a true nucleus and nuclear membrane, having genetic material composed of a single molecule of double-stranded DNA. Prokaryotes with the exception of mycoplasmas have a rigid cell wall. Includes the blue-green algae and bacteria—the Cyanophyceae. a unicellular organism that does not contain a true nucleus surrounded by a double membrane; a bacterium. Division usually occurs through simple fission. Also spelled procaryote. Compare eukaryote-prokaryotic adj.
A prokaryote is a single-celled organism that lacks a membrane-bound nucleus (karyon), mitochondria, or any other membrane-bound organelle. Eukaryotes are organisms, including humans, whose cells have a well defined membrane-bound nucleus (containing chromosomal DNA) and organelles. The division between prokaryotes and eukaryotes reflects the existence of two very different levels of cellular organization.
A eukaryotic cell has a membrane-bounded nucleus. Cells of this type are found in protoctists, plants, fungi, and animals. Humans are eukaryotes, as are oak trees, mushrooms, and amoebas. 