Another route is to complete the associate degree and then enter an RN-to-BSN program, which applies the credits earned for the 2-year degree toward the bachelor's. An RN-to-BSN track could be started at any point in an RN's career and takes approximately two more years to complete.
Registered Nursing Programs: All registered nursing programs include classroom instruction and block experience in hospitals or clinics. Typical subjects studied by student nurses include: Chemistry, Nutrition, Psychology, Anatomy, Physiology, Microbiology, Behavioral Sciences, and Nursing.
Step 3: Become Licensed. All states require registered nurses to pass the National Council Licensure Examination (NCLEX-RN), which is administered by the National Council of State Boards of Nursing (www.ncsbn.org).
How to Become a Nurse: There are three ways to qualify as a Registered Nurse and apply for entry level nursing positions. They are as follows: 1. Completing a Bachelor’s Degree in Nursing (BSN), 2.
To become a nurse you have to no about the human body, so i would think biology would be of use. Also, you can get a nursing degree, but you have to have at least 12 mon … ths experience in a hospial before doing so. I would suggest getting this experience by voulenteering at a hospital. Hope i helped!
To become a nurse you have to no about the human body, so i would think biology would be of use. Also, you can get a nursing degree, but you have to have at least 12 mon … ths experience in a hospial before doing so. I would suggest getting this experience by voulenteering at a hospital. Hope i helped!
ADN programs, offered by community and junior colleges, take about 2 to 3 years to complete. Diploma programs, administered in hospitals, last about 3 years. Generally, licensed graduates of any of the three types of educational programs qualify for entry-level positions as a staff nurse.
Best Answer: You can find out much more by visiting this link: http://www.bls.gov/oco/ocos083.htm Registered Nurses Education and training. There are three typical educational paths to registered nursing—a bachelor's of science degree in nursing (BSN), an associate degree in nursing (ADN), and a diploma.