The tobacco budworm (Heliothis virescens), also called the geranium budworm, is sometimes a problematic pest on geraniums (Pelargonium spp.), as well as other plants. Warnings. 1  Avoid broad-spectrum, persistent pesticides on or around geraniums, as these chemicals will damage the populations of beneficial budworm parasites and predators that help control budworm numbers.
Because geraniums grow as perennials in U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones 10 and 11, this is a problem in these warm climates. The budworm is the caterpillar stage of a moth with light green and brownish wings that span about 1 1/2 inches. Warnings. 1  Avoid broad-spectrum, persistent pesticides on or around geraniums, as these chemicals will damage the populations of beneficial budworm parasites and predators that help control budworm numbers.
Common garden insects such as mites and aphids can be a problem, but the geranium budworm is one of the biggest pest issues with geraniums. Early detection and treatment is key, because they eat more as they grow closer to their time to change into moths. Spray your geraniums with insecticidal soap every other day as long as you see signs of pests, covering the tops and bottoms of the leaves. This helps control several pests, including aphids. The soap kills greenhouse whiteflies, which you can spot as tiny white dots on the bottom of leaves.
Tobacco budworm, also known as geranium or petunia budworm, feeds on the buds and petals of many commonly grown flowers, including geranium, petunia and nicotiana. DESCRIPTION. The adult stage is a moth with a wingspan of about 1 1/2 inches (3.75 cm). The small green worms are often hard to see, but you can easily see the droppings, which often are described as small black seeds. Damage by this insect is so severe that in some parts of the country people have stopped planting geraniums and petunias. NATURAL TOBACCO BUDWORM CONTROL. Control:1.
The tobacco budworm is a serious pest of many garden flowers; the geranium being a particularly common host, leading to the name geranium budworm. Petunia and nicotiana are other common hosts, while rose and many other flowers such as snapdragons, penstemon, and angelonia, are occasionally damaged. The small green worms are often hard to see, but you can easily see the droppings, which often are described as small black seeds. Damage by this insect is so severe that in some parts of the country people have stopped planting geraniums and petunias. NATURAL TOBACCO BUDWORM CONTROL. Control:1.
If the pesky tobacco/geranium budworm (Helicoverpa virescens) creates havoc with your summer annuals, you might control it by rototilling your planting areas. Working the soil in the fall is preferable, but spring tilling may crush some of the budworm pupa. This pest usually arrives in your yard on greenhouse plants. The tobacco budworm is a difficult insect to control with insecticides. Most commonly available garden insecticides (e.g., Sevin) are not effective against this insect due to insecticide resistance. Synthetic pyrethrins (pyrethoid) insecticides (e.g., Talstar, Scimitar) have been most effective against tobacco budworm.
Spray the plants three times a week until you see no more caterpillars or new damage to your plants. The synthetic pyrethrins are more effective against geranium budworms than natural pyrethrins or other insecticides. Spray your geraniums with insecticidal soap every other day as long as you see signs of pests, covering the tops and bottoms of the leaves. This helps control several pests, including aphids. The soap kills greenhouse whiteflies, which you can spot as tiny white dots on the bottom of leaves.
But I would have never imagined that one of those moths' caterpillars were feeding on my geranium leaves and buds. Had I been more alert I should have known by now that those holes in my geranium's leaves and buds are made by specific caterpillars known as geraniums budworms or tobacco budworms. But first, I'll change all the pots and soil, so there won't be any pupae left in there to eat my geraniums. [1] - http://www.ext.colostate.edu/pubs/insect/05581.html[2] - http://www.colostate.edu/Depts/CoopExt/4DMG/Pests/budworm.htm [3] - http://www.weekendgardener.net/garden-pests/tobacco-budworm-050905.htm.
Geraniums make bright clusters of blooms when not attacked by pests. Geraniums (Pelargonium x hortorum) produce brightly colored blooms in the spring and summer in all U.S. Department of Agriculture plant hardiness zones. However, there are several pests that love your geraniums as much as you do. Spray your geraniums with insecticidal soap every other day as long as you see signs of pests, covering the tops and bottoms of the leaves. This helps control several pests, including aphids. The soap kills greenhouse whiteflies, which you can spot as tiny white dots on the bottom of leaves.
Tobacco budworm is resistant to most garden insecticides. In addition, using them may kill beneficial insects such as wasps, bigeye bug, damsel bugs, minute pirate bugs, and spiders. If you use an insecticide, look for one with synthetic pyrethrins also known as pyrethoid insecticides. The budworm is a real threat to tobacco crops, too; fortunately for tobacco farmers they have more potent pesticides and better training in using them than the ordinary gardener. I discovered these worms (also known as the geranium/petunia budworm) last summer in my petunias.