Sardines and herrings belong to the same family of fish. You may hear it referred to as the herring family, but their scientific name is Clupeidae. Fully grown sardines and herrings have a milder flavor than their canned counterparts, but they’re often hard to find fresh because most are pickled, smoked or canned. Sardines and herrings are rich sources of omega-3 fatty acids. Herrings and sardines are so similar that herrings are often canned and labeled as sardines. Both types of fish are good sources of vitamin D and zinc, but sardines are rich in calcium, while herrings only have about one-fourth the amount
Possible Health Risks. While the health benefits of pickled herring are considered to outweigh any possible health risks, it is still necessary to highlight possible health problems from pickled herring. For one, a certain way of preparing pickled herring is the culprit in stoking these beliefs of possible health risks. Ways to Eat Picked Herring. Pickled Herring can be prepared in a number of ways, usually dependent on the type of cuisine that is featuring it. For instance, cuisine from Russia has pickled herring served in such a simple way which sees it cut into small pieces and then drizzled with some sunflower oil and onions.
Macronutrients. The nutritional values of sardines and herrings vary depending on how they’re processed and whether they’re canned in oil or other sauces. Three ounces of pickled herring have 223 calories, sardines packed in oil have 177 calories and you’ll get 157 calories from sardines packed in tomato sauce. Sardines and herrings are rich sources of omega-3 fatty acids. Herrings and sardines are so similar that herrings are often canned and labeled as sardines. Both types of fish are good sources of vitamin D and zinc, but sardines are rich in calcium, while herrings only have about one-fourth the amount
Portion control is very important with high-calorie, high-fat foods such as canned herring. The USDA recommends that calories from fat make up no more than 20 to 35 percent of all your daily calories. The fat in canned herring supplies 311.4 calories, or 15.57 percent of your daily intake of calories. If you are sedentary or moderately active, the amount of fat in this food could be unhealthy for you
Red Blood Cell Health. Making herring a part of your diet keeps your red blood cells healthy. Red blood cells require hemoglobin -- a protein containing chemical complexes, called heme groups -- to function because hemoglobin binds to oxygen so that the cells can transport it throughout your body. The iron and vitamin B-12 found in each serving of herring both help you make this hemoglobin. Healthy Bones. Herring also comes packed with minerals important for skeletal health. It provides you with calcium, magnesium and phosphorus -- three nutrients that your body uses to make hydroxyapatite, the mineral complex that makes up your teeth and bones.
Herring with dill and mustard potato salad. By Simon Rimmer. The tasty herring is an oily fish rich in protein and vitamins and omega-3 fatty acids, which are beneficial to health. They can grow up to 40cm/16in in length. Whole herrings can be poached, fried or grilled, or pickled, soused, marinated, salted and smoked. 
A 100-gram serving of canned herring packed in oil supplies 44.5 grams of protein. The USDA recommends that adults consume 0.8 grams of protein for every kilogram of body weight. This means that a serving of herring satisfies 95 percent of a 130 lb. woman's daily need for protein. The USDA recommends that calories from fat make up no more than 20 to 35 percent of all your daily calories. The fat in canned herring supplies 311.4 calories, or 15.57 percent of your daily intake of calories.
Like all canned foods, sardines and herrings can be high in sodium, but the amounts vary. A 3-ounce serving of canned sardines in oil has 417 milligrams, or 29 percent of your daily value, compared to pickled herrings with 740 milligrams, which is half your daily intake. Sardines and herrings are rich sources of omega-3 fatty acids. Herrings and sardines are so similar that herrings are often canned and labeled as sardines. Both types of fish are good sources of vitamin D and zinc, but sardines are rich in calcium, while herrings only have about one-fourth the amount