1 You can send a text message to any modern cell phone even if you use a different wireless provider. 2  Each text message is limited to 160 characters, including spaces. 3  If you try to send a message over 160 characters, your message will be split into several messages and delivered separately, right after each other.
How to forward message from android mobile phone to others. Delete ping pong messaging thread or delete selected message. It's very simple and even you can switch to traditional look and feel of SMS.
Google Voice can function a your main phone number, allowing you to forward incoming calls and texts to other numbers. Google Voice also allows you to send and receive text messages via your browser from the Google Voice website.
1 Each text message is limited to 160 characters, including spaces. 2  If you try to send a message over 160 characters, your message will be split into several messages and delivered separately, right after each other. 3  Check your cell phone plan to see how much text messaging or texting costs.
I'm going to send my friend Brandy a text message. Tap here to compose and you can either fill out with the full QWERTY keyboard vertically or horizontally. The messaging system will integrate into a full landscape keyboard if you have big thumbs or like a wide keyboard stance. Simply imput your text here.
To forward a text message, on Android phones and iPhone, tap and hold the message to forward then select the option to forward the message. On other cell phones, the option to forward will probably be under options or a similar menu. Enter the phone number to send the message to and click Send.
This is easy. Open the message that you want to forward to others and you will see that SMS in message balloon. It would be in yellowish color. Tap and hold that yellowish message area for more than 2 seconds.
After all the recipients are added, select Send. SMS Forward in Android is not a hard task. Hope this small tutorial helps you. (Tap and hold means tap that item and hold it for more than 2 seconds to open a pop-up option list.
How to Send a Text from Your Phone. Cell phones and smartphones will differ in the menu options and buttons, but in general, the process of sending a text message to someone else's phone is pretty straightforward. From your phone's main menu find the Messages or Messaging option or application.
Open the app from your apps folder to configure text forwarding options. Tap the box next to Forward to enable text forwarding. Key in the phone number(s) to which you want texts forwarded. Configure how often you want text forwarded and when you want text forwarded by specifying in the apps options.