Elvira is a female given name. It is of Spanish origin, originally believed to mean the white. Other theories are that it is of Germanic or West Gothic origin and that the name means alert or trustworthy. 
Vera is a female first name of Slavic origin meaning faith, or of Latin origin meaning true. It can also be a Hindu name. Its name day is on May 31. 
[ 2 syll. vi-ra, vir-a ] The baby girl name Vira is pronounced as V IY-Raa- †. Vira has its origins in the Gothic and Latin languages. It is used largely in the Italian and Ukrainian languages. Vira is an Italian familiar form of the English, German, Italian, and Spanish Elvira. Vira is also an Ukrainian form of Vera. Vira is unusual as a baby girl name. Its usage peaked modestly in 1903 with 0.005% of baby girls being given the name Vira. It was #930 in rank then. The baby name has experienced a drop in popularity since then, and is used only on an infrequent scale now
What does Vira mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Vira is of Sanskrit origin. The meaning of Vira is hero. It is also of Hindi origin, where its meaning is hero . Vira is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Vi-ra. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boy
Vira in Nautical Flags. Indian names or Hindu names are listed in Our Baby Namer under Indian, Hindi and Sanskrit. Other names which may be used my Muslim Indians would be listed under Arabic or Iranian names. Vira is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Vi-ra. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boy
Vera /ve-ra/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced VEER-ah. It is of Russian and Slavic origin, and the meaning of Vera is faith. Also sometimes associated with the Latin word verus meaning truth, and can also be derived from Albanian ver  meaning summer. Nickname for Guinevere and Veronica. The name was used by two popular novelists in the late 19th century. 
Then just follow the diagram below. Just for fun, see the name Vira in Hieroglyphics, learn about ancient Egyptian Hieroglyphics and write a Hieroglyphic message. Learn about nautical flags and see your name or message written in nautical flags, on the Vira in Nautical Flags page. Vira is generally used as a girl's name. It consists of 4 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Vi-ra. In the U.S. in 2014 less than 5 girls were given the name. Less than 5 boy
What does Vera mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Vera is of Latin origin. The meaning of Vera is true desire. It is also of Russian origin, where its meaning is faith, truth. 
As a baby girl name, Vira is currently not a popular baby name in the USA. The following chart shows the popularity of the name Vira in the USA, over the past 100 years. USA baby name statistics. You'll need the Adobe Flash Player and a browser with JavaScript enabled to see all baby name popularity charts. The following names are baby names related to Vira and are suitable names for brothers and sisters of Vira: Boys-Ajay, Deepak, Krish, Rishi, Girls-Anjali, Dakini, Dalai, Kali, Manila, Opal, Shreya, Veda, Vena, Both genders-Chandra. Variants.
Latin Meaning: The name Vera is a Latin baby name. In Latin the meaning of the name Vera is: True. American Meaning: The name Vera is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Vera is: True. Russian Meaning: The name Vera is a Russian baby name. In Russian the meaning of the name Vera is: Faith; true.