As in all types of psoriasis, guttate psoriasis, occurs in those with an inherited genetic predisposition and is not contagious. Guttate psoriasis usually occurs on the trunk, arms, or legs. However, it may involve extensive areas of skin. The trigger to the disease is often a streptococcal (bacterial) infection. Guttate psoriasis is a type of psoriasis that appears as small, salmon-pink droplets on the skin. The word guttate is derived from the Latin word gutta, meaning drop. Usually there are fine scales atop the drop-like lesion.
Psoriasis is a skin disease that causes scaly pink patches. Guttate psoriasis is a particular form of the disease that usually affects children and young adults. It can happen on its own, or as a complication of ordinary (chronic plaque) psoriasis. Often, it follows a bacterial throat infection or tonsillitis.
An outbreak of guttate psoriasis may be an immune reaction that is triggered by a previous streptococcal infection or some other type of infection. The immune system makes white blood cells that protect the body from infection. In psoriasis, the T cells (a type of white blood cell) trigger an abnormal inflammatory reaction in the skin and the production of excess skin cells. Guttate psoriasis may be inherited. Those with a family history of psoriasis have an increased chance of having the disease.
Guttate psoriasis is characterized by the presence of dark red spots on various parts of the body. In Latin, the word “Guttate” means drop and since the spots look like a water droplets or teardrop, the name Guttate psoriasis is given to describe this skin condition. 
Psoriasis is an autoimmune disease that causes raised, red, scaly patches to appear on the skin. It typically affects the outside of the elbows, knees or scalp, though it can appear on any location. Some people report that psoriasis is itchy, burns and stings. Plaque Psoriasis. Plaque psoriasis is the most common form of the disease and appears as raised, red patches covered with a silvery white buildup of dead skin cells. These patches or plaques most often show up on the scalp, knees, elbows and lower back. They are often itchy and painful, and they can crack and bleed.
Both plaque psoriasis and guttate psoriasis frequently appear on the arms and legs—especially elbows and knees—and the skin has a similar appearance. However, guttate psoriasis appears in small patches that may be no larger than a dime. Although guttate psoriasis most frequently occurs on the arms, legs, and torso, it can occur anywhere on the body. The episode of guttate psoriasis shown here has affected the feet. Guttate psoriasis on the feet can turn certain types of socks, shoes, and everyday activities into itchy or painful challenges.
An outbreak of guttate psoriasis is thought to be triggered by a previous streptococcal infection or some other type of infection. The precise mechanism whereby streptococcal infections induce psoriasis awaits more research. Since psoriasis may be inherited, those with a family history of psoriasis have an increased chance of developing the guttate form of the disease. Some people carry genes that make them more likely to develop psoriasis.
Guttate psoriasis overview. Guttate psoriasis causes a rash formed of drop-shaped salmon-pink areas on the chest, arms, legs and scalp. Guttate psoriasis. Red drop-like lesions are found on the skin. Image courtesy of Dr Hon Pak. The areas are up to 1cm across and often clear up on their own after a few weeks. In psoriasis, the T cells (a type of white blood cell) trigger an abnormal inflammatory reaction in the skin and the production of excess skin cells. Guttate psoriasis may be inherited. Those with a family history of psoriasis have an increased chance of having the disease.
Latin for “drop,” guttate describes a type of psoriasis in which the affected patches of skin appear as small, separated teardrops. Although guttate psoriasis can appear anywhere on the skin, it most commonly develops on the arms, legs, and torso. Although guttate psoriasis most frequently occurs on the arms, legs, and torso, it can occur anywhere on the body. The episode of guttate psoriasis shown here has affected the feet. Guttate psoriasis on the feet can turn certain types of socks, shoes, and everyday activities into itchy or painful challenges.
Factors that may trigger guttate psoriasis include the following: 1  streptococcal infection: As many as 80% of people with guttate psoriasis have a streptococcal infection, usually in the form of tonsillitis or pharyngitis, before the outbreak. In psoriasis, the T cells (a type of white blood cell) trigger an abnormal inflammatory reaction in the skin and the production of excess skin cells. Guttate psoriasis may be inherited. Those with a family history of psoriasis have an increased chance of having the disease.