pravastatin. Pravastatin is an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor or statin.. It lowers levels of cholesterol and triglycerides in the blood. Statins may also reduce the risk of heart attack, stroke, or other health problems in patients with risk factors for heart disease. Pravastatin is also available as brand name Pravachol
Pravachol (pravastatin) is an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, also called a statin, used to lower blood cholesterol and reduce the risk of heart attack, stroke and death due to arteriosclerotic vascular disease. Pravachol is available as a generic. Common side effects of Pravachol include headache, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, muscle pain, skin rash, dizziness, and abnormal liver tests.
Pravastatin is in a group of drugs called HMG CoA reductase inhibitors, or  statins .. Pravastatin reduces levels of bad cholesterol (low-density lipoprotein, or LDL) and triglycerides in the blood, while increasing levels of good cholesterol (high-density lipoprotein, or HDL). Pravastatin is used to lower cholesterol and triglycerides (types of fat) in the blood. Pravastatin is also used to lower the risk of stroke, heart attack, and other heart complications in people with diabetes, coronary heart disease, or other risk factors. Pravastatin is used in adults and children who are at least 8 years old.
Pravastatin is sold under the brand name Pravachol ® . In April of 2006, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved a generic pravastatin, which is sold under the name Pravastatin tablets (pravastatin). Generic pravastatin is manufactured by various companies, such as: 1  Apotex Corporation. 2  Cobalt Pharmaceuticals. 3  Dr. Reddy's Laboratories. 4  Genpharm. 5  Glenmark Pharmaceuticals. 6  Lupin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 7  Ranbaxy Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 8  Sandoz. 9  Teva Pharmaceuticals. 10  Watson Laboratories. 11  Zydus
Last reviewed on RxList 4/29/2015. Pravachol (pravastatin) is an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor, also called a statin, used to lower blood cholesterol and reduce the risk of heart attack, stroke and death due to arteriosclerotic vascular disease. Pravachol is available as a generic. Common side effects of Pravachol include headache, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, muscle pain, skin rash, dizziness, and abnormal liver tests.
The Food and Drug Administration today approved the first generic version of Bristol-Myers Squibb's Pravachol (Pravastatin Sodium Tablets), an important step in the agency's effort to increase the availability of lower-cost generic medications. 
Drug Pravastatin. The generic Pravastatin is manufactured by 2 companies. The information provided includes the cost of the drug and the type of drug-tablet, capsule, syrup, cream, gel, ointment, liquid or injection. To view the price of the drug click on the brand name. 
Pravastatin is the generic form of the brand-name drug Pravachol, which is used to lower cholesterol levels. Pravastatin reduces levels of bad cholesterol, which is called low-density lipoprotein or LDL. It also raises levels of good cholesterol, which is called high-density lipoprotein or HDL, and it lowers levels of harmful triglycerides in the blood.
Pravastatin (marketed as Pravachol or Selektine) is a member of the drug class of statins, used in combination with diet, exercise, and weight loss for lowering cholesterol and preventing cardiovascular disease. Medical uses [edit]. Pravastatin is primarily used for the treatment of dyslipidemia and the prevention of cardiovascular disease. It is recommended to be used only after other measures, such as diet, exercise, and weight reduction, have not improved cholesterol levels.