Understanding Carbohydrates. How much and what type of carbohydrate foods are important for managing diabetes. The balance between how much insulin is in your body and the carbohydrate you eat makes a difference in your blood glucose levels. Learn more about how much and what foods to include in your meal plan. 
1 Starch: Starch is a polysaccharide that plants use to store energy. 2  It is the main constituent of complex carbohydrates in the human diet. 3  Examples of starchy foods include potatoes, rice, and pasta. 4  Dietary Fiber: Dietary fiber is found in plants as cellulose, pectin, and lignin. Simple carbohydrates are composed of single-unit sugars called monosaccharides and disaccharides. Glucose and fructose are examples of common monosaccharides. Simple carbohydrates are easily digested and converted to sugar rapidly in the bloodstream.
Starch. Foods high in starch include: 1  Starchy vegetables like peas, corn, lima beans and potatoes. 2  Dried beans, lentils and peas such as pinto beans, kidney beans, black eyed peas and split peas. 3  Grains like oats, barley and rice. ( 4 The majority of grain products in the US are made from wheat flour. 
Two types of complex carbohydrates are particularly important for nutrition: 1  Starch: Starch is a polysaccharide that plants use to store energy. 2  Dietary Fiber: Dietary fiber is found in plants as cellulose, pectin, and lignin. Simple carbohydrates are composed of single-unit sugars called monosaccharides and disaccharides. Glucose and fructose are examples of common monosaccharides. Simple carbohydrates are easily digested and converted to sugar rapidly in the bloodstream.
Starchy vegetables -- which contain three times as much carbohydrate as non-starchy vegetables -- include potatoes, green peas, corn, and squash. Kidney beans, pinto beans, lima beans, black-eyed peas, and lentils are examples of dry beans and peas. 
Fruits, vegetables, grain foods, and many dairy products naturally contain carbohydrates in varying amounts, including sugars, which are a type of carbohydrate that can add taste appeal to a nutritious diet. Carbohydrate Classification. Carbohydrates encompass a broad range of sugars, starches, and fiber. 
The calories you consume each day come from the three types of macronutrients known as carbohydrates, fat and protein. Carbohydrates should account for 45 to 65 percent of those calories, according to The Institute of Medicine. Starch and fiber, two types of carbohydrates, can be found in all five of the food groups. The U.S. Department of Agriculture categorizes foods into five different food groups based on their nutritional content. These groups include protein, dairy, grains, fruits and vegetables. Because starch and fiber are constituents of plants, only foods derived from plants contain them. This makes it obvious that the vegetable, fruit and grain groups contain starch and fiber. The protein and dairy food groups contain less obvious sources of these two types of carbohydrate
In food science and in many informal contexts, the term carbohydrate often means any food that is particularly rich in the complex carbohydrate starch (such as cereals, bread and pasta) or simple carbohydrates, such as sugar (found in candy, jams, and desserts). For example, grape sugar is the monosaccharide glucose, cane sugar is the disaccharide sucrose and milk sugar is the disaccharide lactose (see illustration). Carbohydrates perform numerous roles in living organisms.