1 It is believed that some 3 out of 4 regular caffeine users are addicted to the substance. 2  Consuming as little as 200 mg of caffeine a day can lead to addiction and altered chemistry in the brain. 3  Around 5 grams of caffeine can be fatal. 4  This is the equivalent of some 30-40 cups of regular coffee. Caffeine is the most commonly used drug in the world. Although the consumption of low to moderate doses of caffeine is generally safe and has many proven health benefits, caffeine is causing quite a stir as a potential source for certain health problems with continued use.
A normal dose of caffeine is generally considered to be 100 mg, which is roughly the amount found in a cup of coffee. However, more than half of all American adults consume more than 300 mg of caffeine every day, which makes it America's most popular drug. Caffeine is believed to work by blocking adenosine receptors in the brain and other organs. This reduces the ability of adenosine to bind to the receptors, which would slow down cellular activity.
Whether caffeine is consumed in food or as a medicine, it changes the way your brain and body work and changes how you behave and feel. Caffeine is a central nervous system stimulant. The central nervous system includes the brain, spinal cord, and the other nerves in the body. Caffeine is the most commonly used drug in the world. Although the consumption of low to moderate doses of caffeine is generally safe and has many proven health benefits, caffeine is causing quite a stir as a potential source for certain health problems with continued use.
1 Consuming as little as 200 mg of caffeine a day can lead to addiction and altered chemistry in the brain. 2  Around 5 grams of caffeine can be fatal. 3  This is the equivalent of some 30-40 cups of regular coffee. 4  Some 50% of people who quit using caffeine experience severe headaches that typically last between 2-9 days. Caffeine is the most commonly used drug in the world. Although the consumption of low to moderate doses of caffeine is generally safe and has many proven health benefits, caffeine is causing quite a stir as a potential source for certain health problems with continued use.
There are actually a few different adenosine receptors throughout the body, but the one caffeine seems to interact with most directly is the A1 receptor. More on that later. Enter caffeine. It occurs in all kinds of plants, and chemical relatives of caffeine are found in your own body. The effectiveness of caffeine varies significantly from person to person, due to genetics and other factors in play. The average half-life of caffeine—that is, how long it takes for half of an ingested dose to wear off—is about five to six hours in a human body.
Caffeine is a central nervous system (CNS) stimulant of the methylxanthine class of psychoactive drugs. It is the world's most widely consumed psychoactive drug, but unlike many other psychoactive substances, it is legal and unregulated in nearly all parts of the world. When caffeine is consumed, it antagonizes adenosine receptors; in other words, caffeine prevents adenosine from activating the receptor by blocking the location on the receptor where adenosine binds to it. As a result, caffeine temporarily prevents or relieves drowsiness, and thus maintains or restores alertness.
First, a little biology. As your neurons fire throughout the day, a neurochemical called adenosine builds up in your body. The nervous system uses special receptors to monitor your body’s adenosine levels. As the day wears on, more and more adenosine passes through those receptors—and it makes you sleepy. It’s one of the reasons you get tired at night. Caffeine, however, is a stealthy impersonator. It’s the same size and shape as adenosine, and when you sip your morning joe, your adenosine receptors can’t tell the difference. Specifically, caffeine attaches to the A1 receptor. With caffeine docked at the receptor, a lot of your body’s adenosine molecules can’t enter. It creates a traffic jam of sorts. With all that adenosine blocked, the caffeine keeps you from getting tired. But that’s not where coffee’s kick comes from
Medicines in my Home: Caffeine and Your Body Caffeine occurs naturally in more than 60 plants including coffee beans, tea leaves, kola nuts used to flavor soft drink colas, and cacao pods used to make chocolate products. Man-made caffeine is sometimes added to foods, drinks, and medicines. One hundred to 200 mg (one to two 5-ounce cups of coffee) each day is the limit that some doctors suggest, but each person is a little different. How caffeine affects people varies with their size, their sex, and how sensitive they are to caffeine’s effects.
Caffeine, therefore, binds to the adenosine receptors. However, it doesn't slow down the cell's activity as adenosine would. The cells cannot sense adenosine anymore because caffeine is taking up all the receptors adenosine binds to. So instead of slowing down because of the adenosine level, the cells speed up. You can see that caffeine also causes the brain's blood vessels to constrict, because it blocks adenosine's ability to open them up. This effect is why some headache medicines, like Anacin, contain caffeine -- if you have a vascular headache, the caffeine will close down the blood vessels and relieve it. 