English Meaning: The name Heather is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Heather is: A flowering evergreen plant that thrives on peaty barren lands as in Scotland. Heather. American Meaning: The name Heather is an American baby name.
Meaning of Heather. English name. In English, the name Heather means-a flowering plant.The name Heather originated as an English name. The name Heather is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-a flowering plant. Origin-England. Global Star Registery-Name a star after someone special!
Full Definition of HEATHER. : heath 2a; especially: a common Eurasian heath (Calluna vulgaris) of northern and alpine regions that has small crowded sessile leaves and racemes of tiny usually purplish-pink flowers and is naturalized in the northeastern United States. See heather defined for English-language learners. 
Taken from the name of the plant having very small scale-like leaves and purplish-pink flowers. The word is derived from the Old English haddyr (heather, plants of the heath family). From A World of Baby Names by Teresa Norman. Meanings and history of the name Heather : | Edit. The girl's name Heather \he(a)-ther\ is pronounced HEH-ther. It is of Middle English origin.
Meaning & History. From the English word heather for the variety of small shrubs with pink or white flowers which commonly grow in rocky areas. It is derived from Middle English hather. It was first used as a given name in the late 19th century, though it did not become popular until the last half of the 20th century. Popularit
Look up Heather in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Heather is a popular English and Scottish given name for girls. It simply means heather from the English word for the variety of small shrubs with pink or white flowers which commonly grow in rocky areas. It is derived from Middle English hather. Heath can be used as a male given name. 
The Hidden Meaning of the name Heather using NumerologyNumerology is an ancient science which was developed by Pythagoras. Numerology offers an insight into the personality by assigning numeric values to the letters contained in names. The results provide the hidden meaning of the name Heather. The Origin, Meaning and the Hidden Meaning of the name Heather This page details the origin and literal meaning of the name Heather together with an insight into the hidden meaning and interpretation of the name using numerology. The Meaning of the name Heather The meaning of the name Heather is as follows: Heather. The Origin of the name Heather The origin of the name Heather is believed to be: Middle English. The Hidden Meaning of the name Heather using Numerology Numerology is an ancient science which was developed by Pythagoras. Numerology offers an insight into the personality by assigning numeric values to the letters contained in names
My name is Heather-Alot of friends had name bracelets, necklaces, etc., my grandma bought me something a little more unique-heather earrings. Instead of having my name though, they had real heather blossoms inside the earrings. I loved them, and still have them. Meanings and history of the name Heather : | Edit. The girl's name Heather \he(a)-ther\ is pronounced HEH-ther. It is of Middle English origin.