See More. CAAA joined with Naval Support Activity, Crane and Naval Surface Warfare Center, Crane Division, in a luncheon ceremony at Club Lakeview to honor Prisoners-of-W ... ar and persons Missing-in-Action for POW/MIA Recognition Day. 
See currently available Navy job openings in Crane, Indiana on navy.jobs.net. Browse the current listings and fill out job applications. navy.jobs.net is the starting point for a job search in any navy job in Crane, Indiana. We provide job resources for Navy positions throughout the industry in Crane, Indiana. navy.jobs.net also provides Navy jobs listings from around the United States. Job seekers can search and apply for jobs in Navy by either city or state. navy.jobs.net is a navy job search resource for job seekers in Crane, Indiana. Here you can easily find all Navy jobs in Crane, Indiana, post a resume, and research your career. Get started on your navy job search in Crane, Indiana on navy.jobs.net today
NSA Crane is a United States Navy installation located approximately 25 miles (40 km) southwest of Bloomington, Indiana and predominantly located in Martin County, but small parts also extend into Greene and Lawrence counties. In 1992, Crane’s name was changed to the Crane Division, Naval Surface Warfare Center when the warfare centers were established under the related systems commands. Today grown from its ordnance roots, Crane is recognized world wide as a modern and sophisticated leader in diverse and highly technical product lines.
Located a few miles from Bloomington, the Naval Surface Warfare Center Crane Division Base is the third largest Naval Base in the world. It is named after William M. Crane and covers about 259 square kilometers of Lake Greenwood. 
Naval Surface Warfare Center Crane Division is the main and most important unit hosted at Naval Support Activity Crane. The installation is located in Indiana and covers three different counties – Greene, Martin and Lawrence. It... Grissom Air Reserve Base is a Untied States Air Force Installation located in Indiana. The base spans two counties, Miami and Cass, and sits 12 miles north of Kokomo. The base derives its namesake from Colonel Vergil Ivan Grissom,...
Crane is a town in Perry Township, Martin County, Indiana, United States. The population was 184 at the 2010 census. It was named in 1943 for William M. Crane and is adjacent to the Naval Surface Warfare Center Crane Division. 
Naval Surface Warfare Center Crane Division is the main and most important unit hosted at Naval Support Activity Crane. The installation is located in Indiana and covers three different counties – Greene, Martin and Lawrence. It... 
Then use this accommodations guide to learn about nearby hotels, motels, and other lodging. The Crane Division Naval Surface Warfare Center is located in southwest Indiana, approximately 36 miles from Bloomington. The main gate is located 1 mile east of Indiana Highway 558 on US 231. The closest hotels are in Washington, Bedford and Bloomington. 
Naval Surface Warfare Center Crane Division is the principal tenant command located at Naval Support Activity Crane. In 1992, Crane’s name was changed to the Crane Division, Naval Surface Warfare Center when the warfare centers were established under the related systems commands. Today grown from its ordnance roots, Crane is recognized world wide as a modern and sophisticated leader in diverse and highly technical product lines.
Naval Surface Warfare Center Crane is located in southern Indiana, about 40 miles southwest of Bloomington. NSWC Crane on-base temporary lodging is in Building 3319. The closest off-base hotels are roughly 20 miles southeast of the facility along I-69 in Washington. 