Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a class of diseases that involve the heart or blood vessels. Cardiovascular disease includes coronary artery diseases (CAD) such as angina and myocardial infarction (commonly known as a heart attack).
The cardiovascular disease types in the heart are more commonly known as heart diseases. What is sometimes a little confusing for people is that  heart disease  is a term more often used to describe the most common type of heart disease: coronary artery disease or coronary heart disease. Types of Cardiovascular Disease in the Heart. 1  Angina pectoris, or just angina, including: 2  Stable angina. 3  Unstable angina. 4  Variant angina (also known as Prinzmetal's angina). 5  Arrhythmias, which are problems with the heart's electrical system that can cause fast, slow, or irregular heartbeats. 6  These include: 7  Atrial fibrillation.
Coronary heart disease is a common type of heart disease. This condition results from a buildup of plaque on the inside of the arteries, which reduces blood flow to the heart and increases the risk of a heart attack and other heart complications. Other forms of heart disease include: 1  irregular heartbeat (arrhythmias). 2  congenital heart defects.
Six Types of Cardiovascular Disease. Cardiovascular disease is a term that refers to more than one disease of the circulatory system including the heart and blood vessels, whether the blood vessels are affecting the lungs, the brain, kidneys or other parts of the body. Cardiovascular diseases are the leading cause of death in adult Canadian men and women. 1 Ischemic heart disease is the most common type of cardiovascular disease in Canada and other industrialized countries around the world. 2  It refers to problems with the circulation of blood to the heart muscle.
High blood pressure (hypertension) High blood pressure is the excessive force of blood pumping through your blood vessels. High blood pressure causes many types of cardiovascular disease, such as stroke and heart failure, and renal disease. Peripheral arterial disease Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is caused by atherosclerosis, which is the narrowing and / or blockage of the blood vessels in the legs. 
Coronary Heart Disease (CHD) is the most common form of heart disease. It occurs when the arteries supplying blood to the heart narrow or harden from the build-up of plaque. Plaque is made up of fat, cholesterol and other substances found in the blood. This plaque build-up is also known as atherosclerosis. The site of the plaque determines the type of heart disease: 1  Coronary artery disease is the build-up of plaque in the arteries supplying blood to the heart. 2  Peripheral artery disease is the build-up of plaque in the arteries supplying blood to the arms and legs.
Cardiovascular disease refers to several diseases that affect your heart and blood vessels. Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is not one single disease or condition. It is a group of different disorders that affect your heart and blood vessels. Types of Cardiovascular Disease in the Heart. 1  Angina pectoris, or just angina, including: 2  Stable angina. 3  Unstable angina. 4  Variant angina (also known as Prinzmetal's angina). 5  Arrhythmias, which are problems with the heart's electrical system that can cause fast, slow, or irregular heartbeats. 6  These include: 7  Atrial fibrillation.
Coronary heart disease, the most common cardiovascular type, affects the blood vessels (or coronary arteries) of the heart. It causes angina (chest pain) and heart attacks. The good news is that you can do something about heart disease. Risk factors for coronary heart disease include: 
Heart and blood vessel disease — also called heart disease — includes numerous problems, many of which are related to a process called atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis is a condition that develops when a substance called plaque builds up in the walls of the arteries. 
The following six types of cardiovascular disease are highlighted below: 1  Ischemic heart disease is the most common type of cardiovascular disease in Canada and other industrialized countries around the world. 2  It refers to problems with the circulation of blood to the heart muscle. 1