Photosynthesis in Plants. Photosynthesis is the process by which light energy is converted to chemical energy. A more comprehensive definition of photosynthesis and an explanation of the general equation can be found on our home page. The equation is shown below. There are numerous species of plants all over the world.
Photosynthesis (photo = light and synthesis = to make) is the process plants use to change carbon dioxide and water into sugar using sunlight. This sugar, glucose, is their food, and the process gives off oxygen. Photosynthesis is the conversion of light energy into chemical energy by living organisms. The raw materials are carbon dioxide and water. The energy source is sunlight, and the end-products include glucose and oxygen. photosynthesis is the process by which green plants make their own food with the help of water air (Carbon-dioxide), sunlight and chlorophyll.
Photosynthesis [photosynthesis: The chemical change that occurs in the leaves of green plants. It uses light energy to convert carbon dioxide and water into glucose. Oxygen is produced as a by-product of photosynthesis. ] is the chemical change which happens in the leaves of green plants. Green plants absorb light energy using chlorophyll in their leaves. They use it to react carbon dioxide with water to make a sugar called glucose. The glucose is used in respiration, or converted into starch and stored. Oxygen is produced as a by-product. This process is called
Photosynthesis is the process by which plants, some bacteria, and some protistans use the energy from sunlight to produce sugar, which cellular respiration converts into ATP, the fuel used by all living things. 
Photosynthesis is a process used by plants and other organisms to convert light energy, normally from the Sun, into chemical energy that can be later released to fuel the organisms' activities. 
Photosynthesis Summary. In summary, photosynthesis is a process in which light energy is converted to chemical energy and used to produce organic compounds. In plants, photosynthesis typically occurs within the chloroplasts located in plant leaves. Photosynthesis consists of two stages, the light reactions and the dark reactions. 
Through the process of photosynthesis, sun light is absorbed by plants and converted into chemical energy. Using that chemical energy, the plants are then able to absorb carbon dioxide from the atmosphere and turn it into food for themselves. 
Photosynthetic organisms are also referred to as autotrophs. Photosynthesis is the process by which plants, some bacteria, and some protistans use the energy from sunlight to produce sugar, which cellular respiration converts into ATP, the fuel used by all living things. photosynthesis is the process by which green plants make their own food with the help of water air (Carbon-dioxide), sunlight and chlorophyll.
Photosynthesis is a chemical process through which plants, some bacteria and algae, produce glucose and oxygen from carbon dioxide and water, using only light as a source of energy. This process is extremely important for life on earth as it provides the oxygen that all other life depend on. 
Photosynthesis is the process used by plants, algae and certain bacteria to harness energy from sunlight into chemical energy. There are two types of photosynthetic processes: oxygenic photosynthesis and anoxygenic photosynthesis. Oxygenic photosynthesis is the most common and is seen in plants, algae and cyanobacteria. 