Total work hours lost to employee absenteeism for the month: 124 2. Average wage/salary per hour per employee: $10.00 3. Cost of employee benefits per hour per employee ($10.00 x .30): $3.00 4. Total compensation lost per hour per absent employee a. If employee absences are paid ($10.00 + $3.00): $13.00 b. Total compensation lost to absent employees (124 x $13.00): $1,612 (paid sick leave) 6. All other costs incidental to absenteeism not included in the above items (for the purposes of illustration only, this is a random number): $2,500 7.
WASHINGTON, D.C. -- Full-time workers in the U.S. who are overweight or obese and have other chronic health conditions miss an estimated 450 million additional days of work each year compared with healthy workers -- resulting in an estimated cost of more than $153 billion in lost productivity annually. 
Absenteeism. Absenteeism alone accounts for as much as $2,100 in additional costs per year for shiftworkers as compared to dayworkers. For shiftworkers, only one-third of days taken as sick days are for personal health reasons
$0.16. Figure 1: Annual cost of lost productivity by major U.S. occupations. According to Absenteeism: The Bottom-Line Killer, a publication of workforce solution company Circadian, unscheduled absenteeism costs roughly $3,600 per year for each hourly worker and $2,650 each year for salaried employees. The costs can be attributed to many factors including: 1  Wages paid to absent employees.
In addition, the costs of absenteeism (days of lost work) due to cardiovascular disease fall between $23 million and $1.3 billion for each state yearly, the report said. 
Employee absenteeism due to poor health costs U.S. businesses an estimated $84 billion a year in lost productivity, according to a new study. The annual cost ranges from $24.2 billion in professional fields to $160 million among agricultural workers, according to a Gallup poll. The study was based on more than 94,000 interviews conducted through much of last year with adults who work more than 30 hours a week.
Figure 1: Annual cost of lost productivity by major U.S. occupations. According to Absenteeism: The Bottom-Line Killer, a publication of workforce solution company Circadian, unscheduled absenteeism costs roughly $3,600 per year for each hourly worker and $2,650 each year for salaried employees. The costs can be attributed to many factors including: According to the survey, the annual costs associated with absenteeism vary by industry, with the greatest loss occurring in professional occupations (excluding nurses, physicians and teachers); the 14 occupations and corresponding costs of lost productivity are shown in Figure 1.
Two articles in the Journal of the American Medical Association last year reported that depression set U.S. employers back some $35 billion a year in reduced performance at work and that pain conditions such as arthritis, headaches, and back problems cost nearly $47 billion. Using the same methodology employed to gauge the costs of depression and pain—a yearlong telephone survey of 29,000 working adults, dubbed the American Productivity Audit—Stewart’s research team calculated the total cost of presenteeism in the United States to be more than $150 billion per year.
This article looks at the causes of absenteeism, the costs of lost productivity and what employers can do to reduce absenteeism rates in the workplace. According to the survey, the annual costs associated with absenteeism vary by industry, with the greatest loss occurring in professional occupations (excluding nurses, physicians and teachers); the 14 occupations and corresponding costs of lost productivity are shown in Figure 1.