Over time, the word MDF has become a generic name for any dry process fibre board. MDF density is typically between 500 kg/m 3 (31 lbs/ft 3) and 1000 kg/m 3 (62 lbs/ft 3). The range of density and classification as Light or Standard or High density board is a misnomer and confusing. Medium-density fibreboard output in 2005. In Australia and New Zealand, the main species of tree used for MDF is plantation-grown radiata pine; but a variety of other products have also been used, including other woods, waste paper and fibres.
In addition to all the properties of Premium Grade MDF, it has special properties which make it suitable for interior applications where there is the risk of occasional wetting or prolonged exposure to high levels of humidity. Norbord MR is not warranted for exterior applications. 
MDF (Medium Density Fibreboard) is made from waste wood fibres which are glued under heat and pressure. It is very versatile, but can be dangerous to use if proper safefy prec … autions are not adhered to. Most MDF slowly releases urea formaldehyde which is an irritant to the eyes and lungs. MDF may be used instead of plywood or chipboard. It is dense, flat, stiff, has no knots and is easily machined. It is made up of fine particles and therefore does not have an easily recognisable surface grain. Can be obtained in natural colour in various thicknesses or self coloured.
A thick MDF panel at a density of 700-720 kg/m 3 may be considered as high density in the case of softwood fibre panels, whereas a panel of the same density made of hard wood fibres is not regarded as so. Medium-density fibreboard output in 2005. In Australia and New Zealand, the main species of tree used for MDF is plantation-grown radiata pine; but a variety of other products have also been used, including other woods, waste paper and fibres.
So, I thought it was worth a close look. MDF stands for medium-density fiberboard, and it is not 100% wood. It's basically a wood byproduct, made of wood chips and particles combined with binders and other resins to harden it into sheets. 
The density of MDF (Medium Density Fibreboard) is technically a variable dependent on thickness; however the rule of thumb comes out to about 700 kg/m^3 (Metric mks) or 0. … 700g/cm^3 (Metric Standard) or 0.025lbmass/in^3 or (English (Imperial) Standard) 7.000E-010 N s^2/mm^4 (Metric mmNs). MDF may be used instead of plywood or chipboard. It is dense, flat, stiff, has no knots and is easily machined. It is made up of fine particles and therefore does not have an easily recognisable surface grain. Can be obtained in natural colour in various thicknesses or self coloured.
Medium Density Fibreboard (MDF) is a wood substitute form which is made from fine wood fibres in a resin which is bonded under heat and pressure. MDF may be used instead of plywood or chipboard. It is dense, flat, stiff, has no knots and is easily machined. It is made up of fine particles and therefore does not have an easily recognisable surface grain. Can be obtained in natural colour in various thicknesses or self coloured.
Medium-density fibreboard (MDF) is an engineered wood product made by breaking down hardwood or softwood residuals into wood fibres, often in a defibrator, combining it with wax and a resin binder, and forming panels by applying high temperature and pressure. MDF is generally denser than plywood. Medium-density fibreboard output in 2005. In Australia and New Zealand, the main species of tree used for MDF is plantation-grown radiata pine; but a variety of other products have also been used, including other woods, waste paper and fibres.
Overview. Medium Density Fibreboard (MDF) is a reconstituted wood panel product. It is a dry-processed fibreboard manufactured from wood fibres, as opposed to veneers or particles, and is denser than plywood and particleboard. MDF has an even density throughout and is smooth on both sides. MDF is reconstituted into wood sheets in a variety of widths and lengths
Standard MDF has similar properties to that of natural timber when it comes to fire resistance and registers the following results under AS1530 - Part 3 Methods of fire tests on building materials. components and structures-Simultaneous determination of ignitability, flame propagation, heat release and smoke release: It is a dry-processed fibreboard manufactured from wood fibres, as opposed to veneers or particles, and is denser than plywood and particleboard. MDF has an even density throughout and is smooth on both sides.