Mineral supplements, including vitamin B complex can be useful in providing relief of muscle spasms or cramps, according to Mayo Clinic. Additionally, your diet may lack the necessary potassium, calcium or magnesium, which may be a contributor to the muscle spasms or cramps your experiencing. 
A calcium or magnesium deficiency is a common cause of muscle spasms, particularly spasms of the legs and feet. According to Acu-Cell.com, muscle spasms of the left leg are indicative of a calcium depletion, whereas muscle spasms of the right leg are indicative of a magnesium depletion. They can occur after exercise or during the night and are commonly caused by overuse of a muscle, dehydration or vitamin and mineral deficiencies. If your muscle cramps are caused by a lack of certain vitamins and minerals then dietary supplements may be helpful to you.
Vitamin B-12 is an important nutrient for health. According to the National Institutes of Health, a deficiency in vitamin B-12 can cause symptoms such as muscle spasms, tingling, soreness, weakness and numbness. A diet high in whole foods can provide key nutrients to prevent muscle twitching. Muscle twitches -- sometimes called spasms -- are common and often affect the eyelids, calves and thumbs. Muscle twitches may be a symptom of an underlying nutritional deficiency
Vitamin and mineral supplements may help to prevent muscle spasms. Photo Credit Vitamins and Supplements image by Scott Griessel from Fotolia.com. Muscle cramps are painful involuntary contractions or spasms in one or more of the muscles lasting a few seconds to several minutes. They can occur after exercise or during the night and are commonly caused by overuse of a muscle, dehydration or vitamin and mineral deficiencies. If your muscle cramps are caused by a lack of certain vitamins and minerals then dietary supplements may be helpful to you.
A B vitamin deficiency may also be the cause of muscle cramps. B vitamins improve circulation, enhance muscle tone and enhance cellular and nerve function. A B complex supplement can help to reduce muscle spasms and leg cramps, according to Vitamin-Supplements.org. They can occur after exercise or during the night and are commonly caused by overuse of a muscle, dehydration or vitamin and mineral deficiencies. If your muscle cramps are caused by a lack of certain vitamins and minerals then dietary supplements may be helpful to you.
Considering taking a vitamin or supplement to treat Muscle cramps? Below is a list of common natural remedies used to treat or reduce the symptoms of Muscle cramps. Follow the links to read common uses, side effects, dosage details and read user reviews for the drugs listed below. Your search for Muscle cramps returned 5 matches.
Vitamin B-6. A deficiency in vitamin B-6 may also be linked to certain muscular skeletal issues such as arm and leg cramps and muscle weakness, according to Dr. Vincent Pernell. Vitamin B-6 can help to target cramping, particularly when used in combination with B-12 and other B-vitamins (B-complex). A diet high in whole foods can provide key nutrients to prevent muscle twitching. Muscle twitches -- sometimes called spasms -- are common and often affect the eyelids, calves and thumbs. Muscle twitches may be a symptom of an underlying nutritional deficiency
This is one that works just as calcium does to help prevent muscles cramps. In order to get the amount you need, you can eat leafy greens, or dairy products, or even take vitamins that contain calcium and magnesium in one pill to help improve absorption. DANGER!! -- Magnesium, if taken in excess, can cause diarrhea. This is probably the number one supplement that you can take in order to help you fight muscle cramps. The easiest way to get your daily need for potassium is to eat more fruit and vegetables. Bananas and carrots are the best way (for me) to get the potassium you need to help preven
Calcium and magnesium are important for muscle contraction and relaxation, and a deficiency in magnesium or an excess of calcium in ratio to magnesium can cause muscle spasms, says Dr. Christiane Northrup. A diet high in whole foods can provide key nutrients to prevent muscle twitching. Muscle twitches -- sometimes called spasms -- are common and often affect the eyelids, calves and thumbs. Muscle twitches may be a symptom of an underlying nutritional deficiency