www.healthoracle.org 1 Lectins in food This is an alphabetical list of Foods containing Lectins, from edible Plant and Animal sources. Most lectins, in plant species, are NOT ABO blood type specific. Even fewer EDIBLE plants have lectins that are ABO type specific. This list does conflict with the information of the various incarnations of 'blood type diets', as far as specific foods agglutinating certain of the ABO blood types only.
The five food groups containing the most lectins are: 1  Grains: Especially those containing gluten, such as wheat. 2  Legumes: Beans, including soy and peanuts. 3  Dairy: If a dairy animal is fed grain rather than grass fed. 4  Nightshades: Common ones are tomato, potato, eggplant, and pepper. 5  GMO foods: Lectins are durable and toxic. 1 Remove all five high-lectin food groups for a minimum of 2 weeks, ideally for at least 3 weeks. 2  After 3 weeks, introduce one food at a time from one food group. 3  Wait 72 hours before adding another food. 4  During the 72-hour waiting period, document any changes in mind, body, or spirit.
Beans and Pulses. Beans are among the main sources of lectins. Soy, kidney, navy, pinto, lima, fava, wax, castor, jack, string and field beans all contain lectins. Sweet peas, green peas, cow peas and horse grams are other sources of these proteins, as are lentil, mung bean or soybean sprouts. Photo Credit Tharakorn/iStock/Getty Images. Lectins, a type of protein found in many plant foods, can cause damage to the lining of your gastrointestinal tract or your organs and interfere with metabolism when consumed in large amounts, according to a study published in Toxicon in September 2004.
Fruits and Vegetables. Tomatoes contain lectin, and so do potatoes, sweet potatoes, zucchini, carrots, rhubarb, beets, mushrooms, asparagus, turnips, cucumbers, pumpkin, sweet peppers and radishes. Citrus fruits, such as oranges, lemons and grapefruit, provide lectin. Photo Credit Tharakorn/iStock/Getty Images. Lectins, a type of protein found in many plant foods, can cause damage to the lining of your gastrointestinal tract or your organs and interfere with metabolism when consumed in large amounts, according to a study published in Toxicon in September 2004.
Fruit. Some fruits contain lectins that cause human blood cells to clump together, or agglutinate. This includes cherries, pomegranate, grape seeds, raspberry seeds, apples, watermelon, grapefruit, banana, lemon, orange, strawberries, currants and plums. Some of these lectins are reactive with specific blood types. Some spices contain lectins including garlic, marjoram, allspice, nutmeg and peppermint. Cocoa beans, Arabica coffee beans, walnuts, hazelnuts, sesame seeds and sunflower seeds also contain human reactive lectins. Most of these foods are cooked or roasted before packaging, destroying the lectins.
A number of beans contain orally toxic lectin. Boil these beans to destroy the lectin, as moist heat denatures the protein. Beans that show oral toxicity include kidney beans, navy beans, pinto beans, lima beans and broad beans. Broad beans are also known as field beans or fava beans. Some spices contain lectins including garlic, marjoram, allspice, nutmeg and peppermint. Cocoa beans, Arabica coffee beans, walnuts, hazelnuts, sesame seeds and sunflower seeds also contain human reactive lectins. Most of these foods are cooked or roasted before packaging, destroying the lectins.
List of Foods that Contain Lectin. Lectins are a class of proteins known for their ability to bind to the carbohydrates found in animal cells. High levels of plant lectins can be toxic and cause a form of food poisoning. Symptoms of lectin food poisoning include nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. Some spices contain lectins including garlic, marjoram, allspice, nutmeg and peppermint. Cocoa beans, Arabica coffee beans, walnuts, hazelnuts, sesame seeds and sunflower seeds also contain human reactive lectins. Most of these foods are cooked or roasted before packaging, destroying the lectins.
We just mix some known Lectins with your red blood cells and see which Lectins make your blood cells clump. So powerful are the Lectins in beans, that the CDC believes that 50% of all food poisoning cases in this country are actually caused by the ingestion of undercooked beans or other Lectin containing foods. 
Lectins are abundant in raw legumes and grains, and most commonly found in the part of the seed that becomes the leaves when the plant sprouts, aka the cotyledon, but also on the seed coat. They’re also found in dairy products and certain vegetables. 