***. When you do a statistical test, you are, in essence, testing if the assumptions are valid. We are typically only interested in one, the null hypothesis. That is, the assumption that the difference is zero (actually it could test if the difference were any amount). We previously discussed the merits of the null hypothesis in previous blogs. But the null hypothesis is only one of many assumptions. A third assumption of the t-test is that the variances for the two treatments are equal. This has a fancy five syllable name – homoscedastic (pronounced ‘hoe-moe-skee-dast-tic’). When the two variances are not equal, it is called heteroscedastic. You could drop these terms to impress your friends and neighbors.
Almost all of the most commonly used statistical tests rely of the adherence to some distribution function (such as the normal distribution). Such tests are called parametric tests. Sometimes when one of the key assumptions of such a test is violated, a non-parametric test can be used instead. As we can see throughout this website, most of the statistical tests we perform are based on a set of assumptions. When these assumptions are violated the results of the analysis can be misleading or completely erroneous. Typical assumptions are: 1  Normality: Data have a normal distribution (or at least is symmetric).
Test that your data meets important assumptions. Every statistical test has what are known as assumptions that must be met if the test can be used. Therefore, part of the data process involves checking to make sure that your data doesn't fail these assumptions. Our guides: (1) help you to understand the assumptions that must be met for each statistical test; (2) show you ways to check whether these assumptions have been met using SPSS Statistics (where possible); and (3) present possible solutions if your data fails to meet the required
Here are some examples of statistical assumptions. 1  Independence of observations from each other (this assumption is an especially common error). 2  Independence of observational error from potential confounding effects. 3  Exact or approximate normality of observations. Statistical assumptions can be put into two classes, depending upon which approach to inference is used. 1  Model-based assumptions. 2  These include the following three types: 3  Distribution
In the design-based approach, the model is taken to be known, and one of the goals is to ensure that the sample data are selected randomly enough for inference. Statistical assumptions can be put into two classes, depending upon which approach to inference is used. 1  Model-based assumptions. 2  Distributional assumptions. 3  Structural assumptions. 4  Cross-variation assumptions. 5  Design-based assumptions. Statistical assumptions can be put into two classes, depending upon which approach to inference is used. 1  Model-based assumptions. 2  These include the following three types: 3
TESTING STATISTICAL ASSUMPTIONS 2012 Edition Copyright @c 2012 by G. David Garson and Statistical Associates Publishing Page 21 For a given variable, W should not be significant if the variable's distribution is not significantly different from normal, as is the case for StdEduc in the illustration above. TESTING STATISTICAL ASSUMPTIONS 2012 Edition Copyright @c 2012 by G. David Garson and Statistical Associates Publishing Page 41 regressions on the upper and lower observations in terms of values on the dependent, then conducting an F-test on the ratio of the error sum of squares (ESS) for the two regressions.
Assumptions for Statistical Tests. As we can see throughout this website, most of the statistical tests we perform are based on a set of assumptions. When these assumptions are violated the results of the analysis can be misleading or completely erroneous. Typical assumptions are: 1  Normality: Data have a normal distribution (or at least is symmetric).
Usually in inferential statistics, certain assumptions need to be assessed prior to analysis. Depending on the statistical analysis, the assumptions may differ. A few of the most common assumptions in statistics are normality, linearity, and equality of variance. Normality assumes that the continuous variables to be used in the analysis are normally distributed.
First, we tell tell you what assumptions are required for a particular statistical test (e.g., types of variables required, the impact of outliers, the need for independent of observations, normality, homogeneity of variances, or sphericity, etc.). Some statistical tests have more requirements than others. Our guides: (1) help you to understand the assumptions that must be met for each statistical test; (2) show you ways to check whether these assumptions have been met using SPSS Statistics (where possible); and (3) present possible solutions if your data fails to meet the required assumptions.