If you can be claimed as a dependent by another taxpayer, your standard deduction for 2014 is limited to the greater of: (1) $1,000, or (2) your earned income plus $350 (but the total cannot be more than the basic standard deduction for your filing status). You are allowed an additional deduction for blindness if you are blind on the last day of the tax year. For example, a single taxpayer who is age 65 and blind would be entitled to a basic standard deduction and an additional standard deduction equal to the sum of the additional amounts for both age and blindness.
Current Year 2014 Standard Deduction Table Filing StatusStandard Deduction Single $6,200 Head of Household $9,100 Married Filing Separately $6,200 Married Filing Jointly $12,400 Qualifying Widow(er) $12,400 Tax Year 2015 Standard Deduction Table Important: Only use these values for your 2015 tax return. Increased Standard Deduction-Additional Standard Deductions. Age: If you are age 65 or older, you may increase your standard deduction by $1,550 if you file single or head-of-household. If you are married filing jointly and you OR your spouse is 65 or older, you may increase your standard deduction by $1,200.
In this tax tutorial, you will learn about the standard deduction. The standard deduction reduces the income that is subject to tax. The amount of the standard deduction depends on. 1  the filing status, 2  the age of the taxpayer and spouse, 3  whether the taxpayer or spouse is blind, and. 4  whether the taxpayer can be claimed as a dependent on another taxpayer's return. 
The standard deduction for an individual who can be claimed as a dependent on another person's tax return is generally limited to the greater of: $1,000, or. The individual's earned income for the year plus $350 (but not more than the regular standard deduction amount, generally $6,200). The standard deduction for some taxpayers who do not itemize their deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040) is higher for 2014 than it was for 2013. The amount depends on your filing status. You can use the 2014 Standard Deduction Tables in this chapter to figure your standard deduction.
The standard deduction, as defined under United States tax law, is a dollar amount that non-itemizers may subtract from their income and is based upon filing status. 
The standard deduction is a dollar amount that reduces the amount of income on which you are taxed. In general, the standard deduction is adjusted each year for inflation and varies according to your filing status, whether you are 65 or older and/or blind, and whether another taxpayer can claim you as a dependent. You are allowed an additional deduction for blindness if you are blind on the last day of the tax year. For example, a single taxpayer who is age 65 and blind would be entitled to a basic standard deduction and an additional standard deduction equal to the sum of the additional amounts for both age and blindness.
The standard deduction amount depends on your filing status, whether you are 65 or older or blind, and whether another taxpayer can claim an exemption for you. Generally, the standard deduction amounts are adjusted each year for inflation. The standard deduction amounts for most people are shown in Table 20-1. The standard deduction for some taxpayers who do not itemize their deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040) is higher for 2014 than it was for 2013. The amount depends on your filing status. You can use the 2014 Standard Deduction Tables in this chapter to figure your standard deduction.
The standard deduction for an individual for whom an exemption can be claimed on another person's tax return is generally limited to the greater of: 1  $1,000, or. 2  The individual's earned income for the year plus $350 (but not more than the regular standard deduction amount, generally $6,200). 
Your standard deduction consists of the sum of the basic standard deduction and any additional standard deductions for age and/or blindness. You are allowed an additional deduction if you are age 65 or older at the end of the tax year. You are considered to be 65 on the day before your 65th birthday. You are allowed an additional deduction for blindness if you are blind on the last day of the tax year. For example, a single taxpayer who is age 65 and blind would be entitled to a basic standard deduction and an additional standard deduction equal to the sum of the additional amounts for both age and
Tweet. The standard deduction is a fixed amount, based on your filing status, that reduces your taxable income. You can use either the standard deduction or your actual itemized deductions on Form 1040, but not both. The standard deduction for a single person or a married person filing separately is $6,200 (2014). Married couples filing jointly have a standard deduction of exactly twice as much as a single person's, at $12,400. If you file as a head of household, your standard deduction is $9,100