1. of the nature of or serving as a type or representative specimen: a typical family. 2. conforming to a particular type. 3. exemplifying most nearly the essential characteristics of a higher group of organisms and forming the type: the typical genus of a family. 4. characteristic or distinctive: typical mannerisms. 5. pertaining to, of the nature of, or serving as a type or emblem; symbolic. typicālis = Late Latin typic(us) typikos = typikós(týp) os + -type-ikos) + Ic -latin-ālis al ]. 1′typ•i•cal, ly. adv
A Loan-To-Value Ratio, also referred to as LTV Ratio, is a comparison between the value of your loan and the value of your home. To determine your LTV, your lender will divide your loan amount by the lesser of the home’s appraised value or purchase price (if applicable). 
These are used in descriptive statistics to summarize a data set as well asto describe parameters of statistical models. 2 Typical values The mean (or average, depending on context) is what everybody gets if every-thing is put together and distributed evenly. Sometimes this has a concretemeaning, but often the mean should be looked upon as a normalised sum. Theaverage class of (say) 25.2 pupils is nowhere to be found. Typical values and Measures of variability Helgi ThorssonReykjavik UniversityNotes to Methodology, T-701-Rem4September 9, 2007 1 Introduction Some of the most elementary topics of Statistics deal with de¯ning and com-puting typical values for a data set, as well as measures of variability among thedata.
Typical Values. There are several common methods of selecting a typical value for data. The most common method is the average or mean. To obtain an average value, add up all your data values and divide by the number of data items. and then select the value in the exact middle as the median. (It turns out that if the number of items is even, as in this example, there is no exact middle. 7.2 is 5 places from the front and 6 places from the back; 7.3 is 6 places from the front and 5 places from the back.
Par value for a share refers to the stock value stated in the corporate charter. Par value is important for a bond or fixed-income instrument because it determines its maturity value as well as the dollar value of coupon payments. Par value for a bond is typically $1,000 or $100. 
exists and is an alternate of. Merge this question into. Split and merge into it. Answer by Ceciliarojas. Confidence votes 21. The mean is that value that is most commonly referred to as the average. The typical value is a synonym for the mean and average. The typical value is the mean. Typical usually refers to the average or to what is likely. For instance, the typical man does not go around with $1 million in his wallet. The typical man is not over 7feet t … all. The typical adult woman is not under 3 feet tall.    Typical usually refers to something like the expected value.
So with even-numbered data sets, average the two near-middle values, producing Xmed =7.25 in this example.). The mode typical value will be of less use to us: it is the most repeated value in the data set. In the above example, no value is repeated (each value occurs exactly once). This is commonly the case with so few data items; hence its limited utility for us. and then select the value in the exact middle as the median. (It turns out that if the number of items is even, as in this example, there is no exact middle. 7.2 is 5 places from the front and 6 places from the back; 7.3 is 6 places from the front and 5 places from the back.
Full Definition of AVERAGE. 1. a: a single value (as a mean, mode, or median) that summarizes or represents the general significance of a set of unequal values b: mean 1b. 2. a: an estimation of or approximation to an arithmetic mean. 