By. Of all the components of soil, organic matter is probably the most important and most misunderstood. Organic matter serves as a reservoir of nutrients and water in the soil, aids in reducing compaction and surface crusting, and increases water infiltration into the soil. Yet it's often ignored and neglected. 1 Nutrient Supply. 2  Organic matter is a reservoir of nutrients that can be released to the soil. 3  Each percent of organic matter in the soil releases 20 to 30 pounds of nitrogen, 4.5 to 6.6 pounds of P 2 O 5, and 2 to 3 pounds of sulfur per year.
As soil organic matter is derived mainly from plant residues, it contains all of the essential plant nutrients. Therefore, accumulated organic matter is a storehouse of plant nutrients. The stable organic fraction (humus) adsorbs and holds nutrients in a plant-available form. Chapter 1. Introduction. On the basis of organic matter content, soils are characterized as mineral or organic. Mineral soils form most of the worlds cultivated land and may contain from a trace to 30 percent organic matter.
| Organic matter in virgin and cultivated soils | Effects of organic matter decline | Managing soil organic matter. Raw plant residues, on the surface, help reduce surface wind speed and water runoff. Removal, incorporation or burning of residues predisposes the soil to serious erosion. This decline in organic matter has resulted in the release of large amounts of plant nutrients, particularly nitrogen. For example, a decrease in soil organic matter of 2 per cent releases about 2,400 lb/ac of nitrogen.
Organic matter does not add any new' plant nutrients but releases nutrients in a plant available form through the process of decomposition. In order to maintain this nutrient cycling system, the rate of addition from crop residues and manure must equal the rate of decomposition. This decline in organic matter has resulted in the release of large amounts of plant nutrients, particularly nitrogen. For example, a decrease in soil organic matter of 2 per cent releases about 2,400 lb/ac of nitrogen.
Soil organic matter consists of a variety of components. These include, in varying proportions and many intermediate stages, an active organic fraction including microorganisms (10-40 percent), and resistant or stable organic matter (40-60 percent), also referred to as humus. Chapter 1. Introduction. On the basis of organic matter content, soils are characterized as mineral or organic. Mineral soils form most of the worlds cultivated land and may contain from a trace to 30 percent organic matter.
Soil is considered to be the skin of the earth and interfaces with its lithosphere, hydrosphere, atmosphere, and biosphere. Soil consists of a solid phase (minerals and organic matter) as well as a porous phase that holds gases and water. Accordingly, soils are often treated as a three-state system. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Soil organic matter (SOM) is the organic matter component of soil, consisting of plant and animal residues at various stages of decomposition, cells and tissues of soil organisms, and substances synthesized by soil organisms. The concentration of SOM in soils generally ranges from 1% to 6% of the total topsoil mass for most upland soils. Soils whose upper horizons consist of less than 1% organic matter are mostly limited to desert areas, while the SOM content of soils in low-lying, wet areas can be as high as 90%. Soils containing 12-18% SOC are generally classified as organic soil
At a simple level-minerals of a vast potential range in both particle size and chemical composition, organic matter-both dead and decomposing and live material from almost any form of life, soluble salts of a potentially almost endless variety, and microbes-bacteria, fungi etc. etc etc. Soil is the top layer of the earth in which plants grow, a dark brown or black mixture usually of mineral and organic constituents, clay and rock particles. Soil is made of … 45% minerals (sand,clay,silt), 25% Water, 25% Air and 5% Organics.
What does organic matter consist of. Organic matter is material that comes from living organisms such as peat moss, plant residue, compost, & manures. It consists of compounds with a carbon basis. 