Cockatiels are available in a wide variety of color mutations, in patterns of yellow, gray, cinnamon and white, including birds that are speckled, pure white or birds with white facial feathers. As pets, cockatiels are friendly, charming and captivating in their beauty. In the wild, cockatiels will build their nests in tree hollows as high as 6 feet off the ground and near a source of water. So it's no surprise to find pet birds trying to nest on the top of a closet, in an open cabinet, an open bureau drawers, or any other small, dark, cozy space.
Yes, cockatiels are parrots. Cockatiels (Nymphicus hollandicus), have the characteristic features of parrots: a curved hookbill and zygodactyl feet (two toes pointing forward and two pointing backward). These small parrots are native to Australia, and are closely related to cockatoos. Top 10 Cockatiel Question #4 What kind of bird cage should I get for my pet cockatiel? Cockatiels are active pet birds, so your cockatiel needs a spacious bird cage. Opt for a bird cage that is at least 24 inches wide by 24 inches tall with ½ to 1-inch bar spacing. Look for a bird cage that is easy to clean and maintain (pull-out tray, food and water dishes that are accessible from outside the bird cage)
1 Note that the leaves of some of these plants are poisonous to cockatiels. 2  Greens and weeds: 3  mainly; bok-choi, broccoli or cauliflower leaves, cabbage leaves, collard greens, dandelion leaves, kelp, mustard leaves, seaweeds, spirulina, water cress. As a social bird, cockatiels prefer areas with a lot of activity during the waking hours, and will return to a secluded area when it is time to sleep. Cockatiels may nap on or near their owners, including the owner's chest and shoulders if the owner is stationary for a long period of time.
Both male cockatiels and female cockatiels make great pet birds. Typically, male cockatiels are better whistlers and talkers than female cockatiels. With a female cockatiel, be aware of potential parrot health issues, such as chronic egg laying and egg binding. Top 10 Cockatiel Question #4 What kind of bird cage should I get for my pet cockatiel? Cockatiels are active pet birds, so your cockatiel needs a spacious bird cage. Opt for a bird cage that is at least 24 inches wide by 24 inches tall with ½ to 1-inch bar spacing. Look for a bird cage that is easy to clean and maintain (pull-out tray, food and water dishes that are accessible from outside the bird cage)
Welcome to Cockatiel.com. If you have a pet cockatiel, Cockatiel.com is the perfect site for you! We are the preferred site for those who love their cockatiels and want the very best advice regarding training, nutrition and healthcare. Thanks to our fans and donors cockatiel.com is free for everyone. cockatiel.com has become the preferred web destination for cockatiel owners when they need important cockatiel information about their pet birds.
The cockatiel (Nymphicus hollandicus), also known as the quarrion and the weiro, is a member of the cockatoo family endemic to Australia. They are prized as household pets and companion parrots throughout the world and are relatively easy to breed. At 30 to 33 cm (12–13 in), the cockatiel is the smallest of the cockatoos which are generally larger at between 30 and 60 cm (12–24 in). The normal grey or wild-type cockatiel's plumage is primarily grey with prominent white flashes on the outer edges of each wing.
Pied cockatiels have patches of white and yellow on areas that are typically not those colors in other mutations. Pied patterns vary widely, but according to the National Cockatiel Society, it is preferred that they are 75 percent pied and 25 percent the color the bird would normally be (such as grey or cinnamon). Whiteface. In a whiteface cockatiel, the areas of the head that are typically yellow and orange are white instead, as the bird's mutation name suggests. Females have grey faces and no cheeks.
Cockatiels (Nymphicus hollandicus), are generally regarded as good pets or companion parrots, having a sweet demeanour, though this is by no means guaranteed. Like most other pets, the manner in which the animal is raised, handled, and kept has a profound effect on temperament. As a social bird, cockatiels prefer areas with a lot of activity during the waking hours, and will return to a secluded area when it is time to sleep. Cockatiels may nap on or near their owners, including the owner's chest and shoulders if the owner is stationary for a long period of time.
As a caged bird, cockatiels are second in popularity only to the budgerigar. The cockatiel is the only member of the genus Nymphicus. It was previously considered a crested parrot or small cockatoo; however, more recent molecular studies have assigned it to its own subfamily, Nymphicinae. At 30 to 33 cm (12–13 in), the cockatiel is the smallest of the cockatoos which are generally larger at between 30 and 60 cm (12–24 in). The normal grey or wild-type cockatiel's plumage is primarily grey with prominent white flashes on the outer edges of each wing.