a genus of gram-negative, lactose fermenting rods, members of the Enterobacteriaceae. Found in water, feces and urine, and not considered to be animal pathogens. Citrobacter freundii. have been identified as the cause of septicemic cutaneous ulcerative disease of turtles. The disease is characterized by cutaneous hemorrhage and ulceration, loss of claws and digits, flaccidity and paralysis. 1  Facebook.
As an opportunistic pathogen, Citrobacter freundii is often the cause of significant opportunistic infections, meaning that it does not generally cause disease in healthy human hosts. They only affect patients with a weak immune system, signifying that they need an opportunity to infect the person [2]. The Citrobacter species, including Citrobacter freundii, are aerobic gram-negative bacilli. Citrobacter freundii are long rod-shaped bacteria typically 1-5 μm in length [1]. Most C. freundii cells are surrounded by many flagella used to move about, but a few are non-motile.
C. koseri and C. ferundii cause neonatal meningitis that can lead to brain abscesses. Citrobacter infections can be fatal, with 33-48 % overall death rates, and 30% for neonates. Infant survivors may experience significant damage to CNS, including profound retardation, hemiparesis, seizures, etc. PHYSICAL INACTIVATION: 90% of the Citrobacter organisms may be killed after 15 minutes at 230 MPa. Citrobacter are also inactivated by UV, microwave, gamma radiation, moist heat (121°C for at least 20 min) and dry heat (165-170°C for 2 h) .
Citrobacter is a genus of Gram-negative coliform bacteria in the Enterobacteriaceae family. The species C. amalonaticus, C. koseri, and C. freundii can use citrate as a sole carbon source. 
Photo: Pete Wardell/ CDC. The Citrobacter species, including Citrobacter freundii, are aerobic gram-negative bacilli. Citrobacter freundii are long rod-shaped bacteria typically 1-5 μm in length [1]. Most C. freundii cells are surrounded by many flagella used to move about, but a few are non-motile.
Citrobacter koseri is a Gram-negative, nonspore-forming bacillus. It is a facultative anaerobe capable of aerobic respiration. It is motile via peritrichous flagella. It is a member of the family of Enterobacteriaceae. The members of this family are the part of the normal flora of human and animal digestive tracts. C. koseri may act as an opportunistic pathogen in a variety of human infections.
CHARACTERISTICS: Citrobacter spp., of the Enterobacteriaceae family, are gram-negative, facultative anaerobic bacteria that appear as rods or coccobacilli at 0.3-1 µm in diameter and 0.6-6 µm long. Citrobacter spp. are motile using their peritrichous flagella. PHYSICAL INACTIVATION: 90% of the Citrobacter organisms may be killed after 15 minutes at 230 MPa. Citrobacter are also inactivated by UV, microwave, gamma radiation, moist heat (121°C for at least 20 min) and dry heat (165-170°C for 2 h) .
Various species of Citrobacter may cause infections in neonate children, and in immunocompromised humans. Citrobacter koseri (formerly called Citrobacter diversus) is best known as the cause of sepsis and meningitis leading to central nervous system (CNS) abscesses in neonates and young infants. 
Therefore, in patients with a suppressed immune system, Citrobacter species are known to cause a wide variety of nosocomial infections of the respiratory tract, urinary tract, and the blood [2]. Hepatic, biliary and pancreatic disease are also common diseases that are caused by C. freundii. The Citrobacter species, including Citrobacter freundii, are aerobic gram-negative bacilli. Citrobacter freundii are long rod-shaped bacteria typically 1-5 μm in length [1]. Most C. freundii cells are surrounded by many flagella used to move about, but a few are non-motile.
PATHOGENICITY/TOXICITY: Citrobacter are rare opportunistic nosocomial pathogens. Citrobacter normally cause urinary tract infections, blood stream infections, intra abdominal sepsis, brain abscesses, and pneumonia and other neonatal infection, such as meningitis, neonatal sepsis, joint infection or general bacteremia. PHYSICAL INACTIVATION: 90% of the Citrobacter organisms may be killed after 15 minutes at 230 MPa. Citrobacter are also inactivated by UV, microwave, gamma radiation, moist heat (121°C for at least 20 min) and dry heat (165-170°C for 2 h) .