Welcome to ATATesting.com. Here you may enroll to take one of the ATA exams necessary for advancement in the ATA, including Judging knowledge tests for certification or re-certification of chevrons. For support email: will@ataspringfield.com. Enrollment is $2 per year for your level to help cover the costs of hosting this site with a portion of this fee going to the H.U. Lee Scholarship Foundation. If re-certifying, you need only take and pass the test for the chevron you are re-certifying.
The British equivalent of an FAA A&P is aircraft maintenance engineer and the British equivalent of an FAA A&P with an inspection authorization is  licensed aircraft maintenance engineer  (L-AME) or AME-licensed without type rating (AME-LWTR). The requirements for obtaining an inspection authorization is that the AMT must be licensed for a minimum of three years and actively exercising the rights of an A&P for the two years prior to the date that the IA examination is to be taken.
AIMS: Technicians who are not currently in possessionof a Senior ATA and who therefore wish to take the full assessment. OBJECTIVES: To successfully complete the ATA Senior Panel technician tasks to achievefull ATA assessment. CONTENT: 1. AOM-002 Cosmetic Panel Alignment2. AINT. 01635 293174 www.thatcham.org/training Call our customer service team TRAINING EXPERTISE We offer a wide choice of training courses and ATA accreditation, fully supported by exclusive up-to-date information from our Research Centre.
Our efficient training team will put you through your ATA examination during your induction! As an AutoRestore® Mobile Bodyshop Technician you will undertake... Being ATA certified would be advantageous but not essential. We are recruiting for a Cosmetic Repair Technician to join our busy and successful Bodyshop Team.... Sytner Group - 20 days ago-save job-email-more...
Aircraft maintenance technicians in Europe must comply with Acceptable Means of Compliance (AMC) Part 66, Certifying Staff, issued by the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). The requirements for obtaining an inspection authorization is that the AMT must be licensed for a minimum of three years and actively exercising the rights of an A&P for the two years prior to the date that the IA examination is to be taken.
Motor vehicle technicians repair and service cars, vans, motorbikes, lorries and coaches. They work on all vehicle mechanics and electrics, from engines and exhaust systems to air-conditioning and security. The most common way to become a motor vehicle technician is through an apprenticeship in vehicle mechanics. Average salaries for motor vehicle technicians can be between £15,000 and £20,000 a year. Experienced technicians can earn over £25,000 a year. Figures are intended as a guideline only.
This examination should also cover the codes and procedures used by the employer. Practical Examination (for Level I and II). A practical exam tests an individuals ability to operate the necessary equipment, record and analyze the results and accept or reject the part under inspection. They must also have knowledge of materials, fabrication, and product technology. Level III technicians are responsible for training and examining Level I and Level II's. Usually Level III technicians are in administration, supervision, or management positions, or are owners of a testing laboratory.
If you are working in motorsport, you could take training such as the Level 3 Diploma in Motorsport Vehicle Maintenance and Repair. See the Motorsport Industry Association for information about motor racing careers and training. Average salaries for motor vehicle technicians can be between £15,000 and £20,000 a year. Experienced technicians can earn over £25,000 a year. Figures are intended as a guideline only.