Understanding the shape and consistency of stools is important to identify any changes which may be indicative of gastrointestinal disorders, nutritional disturbances and other systemic diseases which may affect bowel movements.
Re: Describe your last bowel movement using the Bristol Stool Scale (link). I accidentally found the Bristol scale when I searched for something to do with poo once. I can't really remember what i was looking for but I came across that chart and thought...someone had a lot of time on their hands.
The terms ‘constipation’ and ‘diarrhoea’ are commonly used to describe changes in bowel habit, but these words mean different things to different people. Research shows that changes in bowel habit lasting for only a few days-or even a week or two-are extremely common.
The Bristol Stool Chart is a convenient method to assess the consistency of stool and identifying normal or healthy stool forms from those that may be indicative of an underlying disorder. This scale identifies seven types of stool forms. Refer to the picture below for a graphical representation of the types of stool.
Free thesaurus definition of words used to describe the state or consistency of food from the Macmillan English Dictionary-a free English dictionary online with thesaurus and with pronunciation from Macmillan Publishers Limited.
I don't think mushy is a good word to describe my stool, because there is no extra wiping involved.I realize this post is quite vague, but basically what I'm looking for are some poo-related adjectives I can google, in order to see what word best describes my bowel movements. Thanks.
You should note that while batter is a good word to replace dough, batter does not describe consistency. It may imply consistency to a certain extent, but you couldn't use batter (or even battery, batterish, or any other adjectivised form of batter) to describe the consistency of something else.
Types 1 and 2 indicate constipation, types 3 and 4 are usually the most comfortable to pass, types 5-6 tend to be associated with urgency and type 7 is diarrhea. In type 2-3 basically the stool is very hard and you need to use a stool softener like liquid paraffin.