Amoxicillin, also spelled amoxycillin and amox, is an antibiotic useful for the treatment of a number of bacterial infections. It is the first line treatment for middle ear infections. It may also be used for strep throat, pneumonia, skin infections, and urinary tract infections among others. It is taken by mouth. Amoxicillin is used in the treatment of a number of infections, including acute otitis media, streptococcal pharyngitis, pneumonia, skin infections, urinary tract infections, Salmonella infections, Lyme disease, and chlamydia infections.
Amox tr-k clv 875-125 is Amoxicillin 875 mg, with Potassium Clavulanate 125 mg, and is a member of the penicillin group. It only works if the cough is caused by a bacterial in … fection, such as bronchitis, pneumonia, etc., and will not work on illnessess caused by a virus (cold, flu, etc.). 
The combination of amoxicillin and clavulanate is a commonly used antibiotic which is active against many bacterial organisms that cause sinusitis, bronchitis, otitis media, skin and tissue infections and community acquired pneumonia. The combination consists of amoxicillin which is a semisynthetic, third generation penicillin and clavulanate which is a beta lactam that acts as an inhibitor of beta lactamase, the major bacterial enzyme responsible for penicillin resistance.
Amoxicillin belongs to a group of drugs called the penicillins which originate from a form of fungi called Penicillium fungi. Penicillins are antibiotic drugs, meaning that they are used to treat infections caused by bacteria and to eliminate the bacteria themselves. Amoxicillin fights bacteria by preventing them from forming cell walls and stopping them from growing. This kills the bacteria and eventually eradicates the infection. As an antibiotic, amoxicillin is used to treat certain infections that have been caused by bacteria. Amoxicillin is used to treat bacterial infections such as bronchitis. The following are conditions that amoxicillin can be prescribed to treat on its own:
1 Amoxicillin can be used to treat infections caused by bacteria but not those caused by viruses. 2  Amoxicillin can also be used in combination with other medications to treat certain stomach ulcers. 3  Amoxicillin is dispensed in a wide variety of forms, ranging from tablets to liquid drops. As an antibiotic, amoxicillin is used to treat certain infections that have been caused by bacteria. Amoxicillin is used to treat bacterial infections such as bronchitis. The following are conditions that amoxicillin can be prescribed to treat on its own:
Amoxicillin/clavulanic acid (INN) or co-amoxiclav (BAN) is an antibiotic useful for the treatment of a number of bacterial infections. It is a combination antibiotic consisting of amoxicillin trihydrate, a β-lactam antibiotic, and potassium clavulanate, a β-lactamase inhibitor. 
amoxicillin. [əmok′səsil′in]. a beta-lactam semisynthetic oral penicillin antibiotic. indication It is prescribed in the treatment of infections caused by a susceptible gram-negative or gram-positive bacteria. contraindication Known hypersensitivity to any penicillin prohibits its use. amoxicillin. an antibiotic that is a penicillin analogue similar in action to ampicillin but more efficiently absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and therefore requiring less frequent dosage and not as likely to cause diarrhea.
Amoxicillin is an antibiotic in a group of drugs called penicillins. Amoxicillin fights bacteria in the body. Clavulanate potassium is a form of clavulanic acid, which is similar to penicillin. Clavulanate potassium fights bacteria that is often resistant to penicillins and other antibiotics. Generic Name: Amoxicillin-clavulanate. This drug is classified an antibiotic in the penicillin group. The expanded coverage of this combination medication makes it a useful alternative when amoxicillin resistance is present and patients cannot tolerate alternative treatments.
The combination of amoxicillin and clavulanate is an oral antibiotic widely used in the treatment of mild-to-moderate bacterial infections including sinusitis, bronchitis, otitis media, cellulitis and community acquired pneumonia. The combination consists of amoxicillin which is a semisynthetic, third generation penicillin and clavulanate which is a beta lactam that acts as an inhibitor of beta lactamase, the major bacterial enzyme responsible for penicillin resistance.