Mesothelioma Disease. Mesothelioma is a rare form of cancer that attacks the cells of the mesothelium, a thin membrane that lines the thoracic and abdominal cavities as well as the heart sac. It has been determined that the cause of mesothelioma is almost always exposure to asbestos.
As noted, asbestos exposure can lead to the development of various cancers and other illnesses. We have briefly outlined the most common types of asbestos disease, which are: 1  Mesothelioma: Mesothelioma is a rare and fatal cancer that attacks the protective lining of the lungs, heart, or stomach. 1 Asbestos-Caused Lung Cancer: Lung cancer is one of the most common asbestos diseases. 2  Individuals exposed to asbestos over long periods of time have an increased risk of developing lung cancer, especially those who smoke tobacco.
Asbestos-related diseases include non-malignant disorders such as asbestosis (pulmonary fibrosis due to asbestos), diffuse pleural thickening, pleural plaques, pleural effusion, rounded atelectasis and malignancies such as lung cancer and malignant mesothelioma. People who worked in jobs with high asbestos dust exposure are at the highest risk of developing asbestos-related disease. However, exposure to asbestos may also occur in the worker’s home due to dust that has accumulated on the worker's clothing (para-occupational exposure).
1 All forms of asbestos increase the risk of lung disease. 2  The three types of asbestos-related lung disease are scarring (asbestosis), non-cancerous disease of the tissue of the lining of the surface of the lung (pleural disease), and lung cancer (of the lungs or their outer lining tissue [ mesothelioma ]). 1 Diagnosis of asbestosis or asbestos-related lung diseases and cancer is often made using chest X-rays or CT scans of the lungs.
Asbestosis. Asbestosis is a serious, progressive, long-term disease of the lungs. Asbestosis is not a cancer. Inhaling asbestos fibers that irritate and inflame lung tissues, causing the lung tissues to scar, causes asbestosis. The scarring makes it hard to breathe and difficult for oxygen and carbon dioxide pass through the lungs. 1 Most cases of mesothelioma are diagnosed 30 years or more after the first exposure to asbestos. 2  Asbestos-related disease has been diagnosed in asbestos workers, family members, and residents who live close to asbestos mines or processing plants.
Asbestos-related lung diseases are diseases caused by exposure to asbestos (as-BES-tos) fibers. Asbestos is a mineral that, in the past, was widely used in many industries. Asbestos is made up of tiny fibers that can escape into the air. When breathed in, these fibers can stay in your lungs for a long time. Figure A shows the location of the lungs, airways, pleura, and diaphragm in the body. Figure B shows lungs with asbestos-related diseases, including pleural plaque, lung cancer, asbestosis, plaque on the diaphragm, and mesothelioma.
An asbestos disease is an illness that is caused by asbestos exposure due to inhalation. As a result, the lungs and/or pleura are typically affected when a person has an asbestos disease. There are several types of asbestos diseases; however, the most common are mesothelioma, asbestosis, and lung cancer. If you suspect that you may have asbestos lung cancer or one of the other diseases, it must be properly diagnosed by a physician. 1 Asbestos-Caused Lung Cancer: Lung cancer is one of the most common asbestos diseases. 2  Individuals exposed to asbestos over long periods of time have an increased risk of developing lung cancer, especially those who smoke tobacco.
1 The three types of asbestos-related lung disease are scarring (asbestosis), non-cancerous disease of the tissue of the lining of the surface of the lung (pleural disease), and lung cancer (of the lungs or their outer lining tissue [ mesothelioma ]). 1 Diagnosis of asbestosis or asbestos-related lung diseases and cancer is often made using chest X-rays or CT scans of the lungs.
Asbestos disease can develop in individuals who have been exposed to dangerous quantities of airborne asbestos fibers. Asbestos is a group of minerals that have been added to thousands of products in order to increase durability, fire resistance, and strength or to protect against corrosion or other damage. Types of Asbestos Diseases. Asbestosis is one type of asbestos disease that a person can develop. Asbestosis is a non-cancerous asbestos disease, which causes scar tissue to develop on the lower lobes of both lungs. This asbestos disease can impair lung elasticity and the lung's ability to sufficiently exchange gases. Asbestosis gets worse over time and can result in significant breathing impairment