This report describes the typical weather at the Marrakech-Menara Airport (Marrakech, Morocco) weather station over the course of an average October. It is based on the historical records from 1974 to 2012. Earlier records are either unavailable or unreliable. Marrakech has a hot semi-arid steppe climate. The average fraction of time spent in various temperature bands: frigid (below 15A°15â), f (FREEZING°15a 15â F°To), 32a (32â°F cold 32A°32â), f (TO°50a 50â F°Cool), 50a (50â°F to 65A°65â), f (COMFORTABLE°65a 65â F°To), 75a (75â°F warm 75A°75â) f to (85a 85â°F). hot 85a 85â f to 100a 100â f and sweltering above
Sea temperature in Morocco in October: 20°C, 68°F. Average rainfall in Morocco in October: 39mm, 1.5in. Note: The Moroccan coast is mild and pleasant during October, and it is a very good month to visit the fascinating city of Marrakech for some sightseeing, now that the broiling heat of summer has begun to subside. It can be very cold at night in the desert, though, so take a warm jacket. In the high mountains, where snow is common and temperatures can be below freezing, it is not a good time for trekking – but you can try skiing instead. Average temperature in Morocco in March: 13C, 55°F.
Winters (November to February) are generally mild although temperatures at night can get down to the 40's Fahrenheit (10 C). A dusting of snow is not unusual in Northern Morocco and of course the Atlas Mountains get a lot of snow. You can even ski in Oukaimeden just outside of Marrakech. The Middle Atlas Mountains get a lot of rainfall, especially from November to February. Summer temperatures average around 72-78 Fahrenheit (25 C) and winter temperatures can get as low as -4 Fahrenheit (-20 C).
Check the Weather in Morocco in October before you book your next holiday. This gives the best indication of the weather in October and includes figures for temperature, sunshine and rainfall. The Morocco october weather guide shown below is for Marrakech. 
Weather lowdown. October in Marrakesh sees temperatures begin to decline, albeit very slightly, and the rains start to come. The average daily temperature in the month of October lingers around 21 degrees Celsius. This average includes a potential low of 15 degrees Celsius, which often occurs during the night, and a high of 27 degrees Celsius. 
Sea temperature in Morocco in February: 16°C, 61°F. Average rainfall in Morocco in February: 53mm, 2.1in. Note: Winter rains may be marring the beaches of Morocco during February, but it is an ideal time for a desert safari, with clear skies, little likelihood of a sand storm and comfortable day-time temperatures. It can be very cold at night in the desert, though, so take a warm jacket. In the high mountains, where snow is common and temperatures can be below freezing, it is not a good time for trekking – but you can try skiing instead. Average temperature in Morocco in March: 13C, 55°F.
Marrakech spring weather is very pleasant, with daytime temperatures of around 22°C in March, rising to the high 20s by May. It may rain on a couple of days each month, but these short sharp showers are usually over very quickly. Marrakech in the Autumn. The autumn months are, like the spring, a popular time for tourists to Marrakech, because the heat is more bearable. It's still very warm in September, October and November, with temperatures ranging from 32°C in September to 25°C in November.
Sea temperature in Morocco in July: 21°C, 70°F. Average rainfall in Morocco in July: 0mm, 0in. Note: Dry, hot and sunny sums up the weather in Morocco in July, which is the peak of the country’s tourist season, occasioned by the northern hemisphere summer holidays which bring visitors flocking. It can be very cold at night in the desert, though, so take a warm jacket. In the high mountains, where snow is common and temperatures can be below freezing, it is not a good time for trekking – but you can try skiing instead. Average temperature in Morocco in March: 13C, 55°F.
Sea temperature in Morocco in September: 21°C, 70°F. Average rainfall in Morocco in September: 6mm, 0.2in. Note: Morocco remains dry and hot as autumn creeps in, the drop in temperature noticed initially only in the high altitude areas of the Atlas and Rif mountains. It can be very cold at night in the desert, though, so take a warm jacket. In the high mountains, where snow is common and temperatures can be below freezing, it is not a good time for trekking – but you can try skiing instead. Average temperature in Morocco in March: 13C, 55°F.