1. Only tests that are medically necessary for the diagnosis or treatment of the patient should be ordered. Medicare does not pay for screening tests, except for certain specifically approved procedures, and may not pay for non-FDA-approved tests or those tests considered experimental. 2. If there is reason to believe that Medicare will not pay for a test, the patient should be informed. The patient should sign an Advance Beneficiary Notice (ABN) to indicate that he or she is responsible for the cost of the test if Medicare denies payment. 3.
If Medicare Part A covers a blood test for an inpatient, the cost of the testing becomes part of the overall covered hospital charges. Medicare Part A payment for inpatient hospital charges is subject to a deductible and to daily co-payments for stays of 60 days or more. But sometimes a Part C plan covers more, with extra services or an expanded amount of coverage. (Co-payments for Part C plans may also be different than those for Part A or Part B.) To find out whether your plan provides extra coverage or requires different co-payments for blood tests, contact the plan directly.
1 Use this list if you’re a person with Medicare, family member or caregiver. 2  Medicare coverage for many tests, items and services depends on where you live. 3  This list only includes tests, items and services that are covered no matter where you live. 
Medicare Part A covers your inpatient hospital stays. 1  You pay a deductible and no co-payment for days one to 60 each benefit period. 2  You pay a co-payment for days 61 to 90 each benefit period. 3  You pay a co-payment per “lifetime reserve day” after day 90 each benefit period (up to 60 days over your lifetime). 1
Medicare Part B: Doctor Costs and Lab Tests. WebMD explains Medicare Part B, which pays for outpatient medical care such as doctor visits, laboratory tests, medical equipment, preventive health services, and more. http://img.webmd.com/dtmcms/live/webmdNone. You’ll pay a lifetime 10% penalty for every 12 months you delay your enrollment. 1  Medical and other services. 2  Medicare Part B pays 80% of most doctor's services, outpatient treatments, and durable medical equipment (like oxygen or wheelchairs). 3  You pay the other 20%.
All providers of Part A services must be certified by Medicare. If you go to a provider who is not Medicare certified, Medicare will not pay for the service. All Medicare certified providers accept Medicare and your share of costs as full payment. Hospice Care. Hospice care is for people with a terminal illness. It covers: 1  Doctors' services. 2  Nursing care.
What's Covered. The basic Medicare rule regarding blood tests is that Medicare covers the drawing of blood and laboratory testing, reasonably ordered by a physician or other appropriate practitioner, to diagnose or monitor a particular disease or condition. But sometimes a Part C plan covers more, with extra services or an expanded amount of coverage. (Co-payments for Part C plans may also be different than those for Part A or Part B.) To find out whether your plan provides extra coverage or requires different co-payments for blood tests, contact the plan directly.
1 Preventive services. 2  Medicare Part B helps pay for a number of tests, screenings, vaccinations, and a one-time physical exam to help you stay healthy. 3  Many of these services are available at no cost at the time of the visit. You’ll pay a lifetime 10% penalty for every 12 months you delay your enrollment. 1  Medical and other services. 2  Medicare Part B pays 80% of most doctor's services, outpatient treatments, and durable medical equipment (like oxygen or wheelchairs). 3  You pay the other 20%.
1 Medical and other services. 2  Medicare Part B pays 80% of most doctor's services, outpatient treatments, and durable medical equipment (like oxygen or wheelchairs). 3  You pay the other 20%. 4  Medicare also pays for mental health care costs. You’ll pay a lifetime 10% penalty for every 12 months you delay your enrollment. 1 
1 Medicare Part B pays 80% of most doctor's services, outpatient treatments, and durable medical equipment (like oxygen or wheelchairs). 2  You pay the other 20%. 3  Medicare also pays for mental health care costs. 4  Laboratory and radiology services. 5  This includes blood tests, X-rays, and other tests. You’ll pay a lifetime 10% penalty for every 12 months you delay your enrollment. 1  Medical and other services. 2  Medicare Part B pays 80% of most doctor's services, outpatient treatments, and durable medical equipment (like oxygen or wheelchairs). 3