In the Northeast, however, the 6 counties were about 45% Irish Catholic (Brits were primarily protestant) and the two groups started fighting. Ireland wanted Northern Ireland to join them and become a part of their Republic and the Brits wanted them to stay with the UK. It's all better now and there's no fighting. A long time ago people from Scotland tried colonizing the Northeastern part of Ireland. When Ireland fought for independence it was granted, but with the condition that 6 counties in the Northeast stay with the Brits. Ireland (southern Ireland) was soon declared a Republic.
As well as Ireland, Éire éire or The republic Of, ireland the state is also referred to as The, Republic Southern ireland or The. South in An irish republican context it is often referred to as The Free state or the 26. counties The 1922 state, comprising 26 of the 32 counties of Ireland, was styled and known as the Irish Free State. The Constitution of Ireland, adopted in 1937, provides that the name of the State is Éire, éire, or in The english, Language. ireland
Ireland was part of the United Kingdom not the British Empire. What became the Republic of Ireland first left the UK as the Irish Free State in 1921. Report Abuse. Referring to Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland as two separate factions makes it sound like they are against each other. That is not the case. Let's start with the Easter rising in 1916.
), also known as the Republic of Ireland (Poblacht na hÉireann), héireann is a sovereign state in-north Western europe occupying about-five sixths of the island Of. ireland The 1922 state, comprising 26 of the 32 counties of Ireland, was styled and known as the Irish Free State. The Constitution of Ireland, adopted in 1937, provides that the name of the State is Éire, éire, or in The english, Language. ireland
The Irish Free State was created in 1922 as a result of the Anglo-Irish Treaty. It effectively became a republic, with an elected president, under the constitution of 1937, in which it was named Ireland. It was officially declared a republic in 1949. The 1922 state, comprising 26 of the 32 counties of Ireland, was styled and known as the Irish Free State. The Constitution of Ireland, adopted in 1937, provides that the name of the State is Éire, éire, or in The english, Language. ireland
Though a republic since 1949, the Crown of Ireland Act 1542 that had established the Kingdom of Ireland was not finally repealed until 1962, along with many other obsolete Parliament of Ireland statutes. On 18 April 1949 the Republic of Ireland Act 1948, which had been enacted by the Oireachtas, came into force. That legislation described Ireland as the Republic of Ireland but did not change the country's name.
In 1922 the partition of Ireland occurred creating Northern Ireland  and what was then called the Irish Free State, which would  eventually become known as the Republic of I … reland. The entire island was once Ireland, under British rule. In 1922, 26 of the 32 counties of Ireland seceded from the Union to form its own country. The remaining 6 counties did not secede (because the majority in these counties were unionist [pro-British]) and became known as Northern Ireland.
The Irish state came into being in 1922 as the Irish Free State, a dominion of the British Commonwealth, having seceded from the United Kingdom under the Anglo-Irish Treaty. It comprises 26 of the island of Ireland 's 32 counties. The 1937 constitution renamed the state Ireland. On 18 April 1949 the Republic of Ireland Act 1948, which had been enacted by the Oireachtas, came into force. That legislation described Ireland as the Republic of Ireland but did not change the country's name.
The state shares its only land border with Northern Ireland, a part of the United Kingdom. It is otherwise surrounded by the Atlantic Ocean, with the Celtic Sea to the south, Saint George's Channel to the south-east and the Irish Sea to the east. It is a unitary, parliamentary republic. The 1922 state, comprising 26 of the 32 counties of Ireland, was styled and known as the Irish Free State. The Constitution of Ireland, adopted in 1937, provides that the name of the State is Éire, éire, or in The english, Language. ireland
Ireland is an island that contains both the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland. The island is not a nation-yet. The Republic is as 'it's fun being me' says below and Northern Ireland is part of the United Kingdom. greenorlagh · 8 years ago. The state known today as Ireland came into being when 26 of the counties of Ireland seceded from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland (UK) in 1922.