Preeclampsia is a complication of pregnancy in which affected women develop high blood pressure (hypertension) and can also have abnormally high levels of protein in their urine. This condition usually occurs in the last few months of pregnancy and often requires the early delivery of the infant. The effects of high blood pressure on the brain (hypertensive encephalopathy) may also result in seizures. If seizures occur, the condition is considered to have progressed to eclampsia, which can result in coma. Without treatment to help prevent seizures, about 1 in 200 women with preeclampsia develop eclampsia.
1 Preeclampsia is a condition of during pregnancy characterized by high blood pressure (hypertension) and protein in the urine (proteinuria). 2  Preeclampsia usually occurs after the 34th week of gestation, but it can develop after birth. 3  Preeclampsia and eclampsia are most common in first-time pregnancies. 1 Preeclampsia and eclampsia are most common in first-time pregnancies. 2  Pregnant teens and women over 40 are also at increased risk. 3  Eclampsia is the development of seizures in a woman with severe preeclampsia.
Preeclampsia is a condition that can develop during pregnancy characterized by high blood pressure (hypertension) and protein in the urine (proteinuria). 1 Preeclampsia and eclampsia are most common in first-time pregnancies. 2  Pregnant teens and women over 40 are also at increased risk. 3  Eclampsia is the development of seizures in a woman with severe preeclampsia.
Eclampsia is the onset of seizures (convulsions) in a woman with pre-eclampsia. Pre-eclampsia is a disorder of pregnancy in which there is high blood pressure and either large amounts of protein in the urine or other organ dysfunction, Onset may be before, during, or after delivery. Most often it is during the second half of pregnancy.
In addition to swelling, protein in the urine, and high blood pressure, preeclampsia symptoms can include: 1  Rapid weight gain caused by a significant increase in bodily fluid. 2  Abdominal pain. 3  Severe headaches. 4  Change in reflexes. 5  Reduced urine or no urine output. 6  Dizziness. 7  Excessive vomiting and nausea. 8  Vision changes. 
Symptoms of eclampsia include those of preeclampsia along with the development of seizures. When seizures occur, they are most often preceded by neurologic symptoms like headache and vision disturbances. Women with severe preeclampsia may have a reduced platelet count (below 100,000). Other symptoms and signs that can occur with severe preeclampsia are dizziness, headaches, nausea, vomiting, abdominal pain, vision changes, changes in reflexes, altered mental state, fluid in the lungs (pulmonary edema), and a decrease in urine output.
Preeclampsia: Symptoms, Risks, Treatment and Prevention. Preeclampsia is a condition that occurs only during pregnancy. Some symptoms of preeclampsia may include high blood pressure and protein in the urine, occurring after week 20 of pregnancy. Preeclampsia is often precluded by gestational hypertension. While high blood pressure during pregnancy does not necessarily indicate preeclampsia, it may be a sign of another problem
Mild preeclampsia: high blood pressure, water retention, and protein in the urine. Severe preeclampsia: headaches, blurred vision, inability to tolerate bright light, fatigue, nausea / vomiting, urinating small amounts, pain in the upper right abdomen, shortness of breath, and tendency to bruise easily. Preeclampsia is a condition that occurs only during pregnancy. Some symptoms of preeclampsia may include high blood pressure and protein in the urine, occurring after week 20 of pregnancy. Preeclampsia is often precluded by gestational hypertension. While high blood pressure during pregnancy does not necessarily indicate preeclampsia, it may be a sign of another problem