Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a common Gram-negative bacterium that can cause disease in plants and animals, including humans. It is citrate, catalase, and oxidase positive. It is found in soil, water, skin flora, and most man-made environments throughout the world. The genome of P. aeruginosa is relatively large (6–7 Mb) and encodes around 6,000 (predicted) open reading frames, depending on the strain. The 5,021 genes are conserved across all five genomes analyzed, with at least 70% sequence identity. This set of genes is the P. aeruginosa core genome.
P. aeruginosa is often preliminarily identified by its pearlescent appearance and grape-like or tortilla-like odor in vitro. Definitive clinical identification of P. aeruginosa often includes identifying the production of both pyocyanin and fluorescein, as well as its ability to grow at 42°C. The genome of P. aeruginosa is relatively large (6–7 Mb) and encodes around 6,000 (predicted) open reading frames, depending on the strain. The 5,021 genes are conserved across all five genomes analyzed, with at least 70% sequence identity. This set of genes is the P. aeruginosa core genome.
Pseudomonas infections are diseases caused by a bacterium from the genus Pseudomonas. The bacteria are found widely in the environment, such as in soil, water, and plants. They usually do not cause infection in healthy people. If an infection does occur in a healthy person, it is generally mild. Pseudomonas infections are caused by a free-living bacterium from the genus Pseudomonas. Pseudomonas are gram-negative bacteria. They are found widely in soil and water. They favor moist areas. Only a few of the many species cause disease. The most common species that causes infection is called Pseudomonas aeruginosa.
P. aeruginosa is a relatively common type of infection encountered in UK hospitals, and its tough nature and the severity of the symptoms it causes mean it is a priority for infection control departments. 
Practice Essentials. Pseudomonas aeruginosa has become an important cause of infection, especially in patients with compromised host defense mechanisms. It is the most common pathogen isolated from patients who have been hospitalized longer than 1 week, and it is a frequent cause of nosocomial infections. Pseudomonas aeruginosa has become an important cause of infection, especially in patients with compromised host defense mechanisms. It is the most common pathogen isolated from patients who have been hospitalized longer than 1 week.
Pseudomonas infection is caused by strains of bacteria found widely in the environment; the most common type causing infections in humans is called Pseudomonas aeruginosa. For more images of this bacterium, search the Public Health Image Library. Serious Pseudomonas infections usually occur in people in the hospital and/or with weakened immune systems. Infections of the blood, pneumonia, and infections following surgery can lead to severe illness and death in these people.
Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic bacteria that lives in soil, water, and even in environments like hot tubs. For most healthy people, this bacteria seldom poses a problem. 
A. A pseudomonas infection is caused by a very common type of bacteria called Pseudomonas aeruginosa (say soo-duh-MOH-nuss ay-roo-jee-NOH-suh). Healthy people often carry these bacteria around without knowing it and without having any problems. Topic Overview. A pseudomonas infection is caused by a very common type of bacteria called Pseudomonas aeruginosa (say soo-duh-MOH-nuss ay-roo-jee-NOH-suh).
According to the CDC, the overall incidence of P. aeruginosa infections in US hospitals averages about 0.4 percent (4 per 1000 discharges), and the bacterium is the fourth most commonly-isolated nosocomial pathogen accounting for 10.1 percent of all hospital-acquired infections. Diagnosis of P. aeruginosa infection depends upon isolation and laboratory identification of the bacterium. It grows well on most laboratory media and commonly is isolated on blood agar or eosin-methylthionine blue agar.