B cell: A type of white blood cell and, specifically, a type of lymphocyte. Many B cells mature into what are called plasma cells that produce antibodies (proteins) necessary to fight off infections while other B cells mature into memory B cells. All of the plasma cells descended from a single B cell produce the same antibody which is directed against the antigen that stimulated it to mature.
B lymphocytes (B cells) are an essential component of the humoral immune response. Produced in the bone marrow, B cells migrate to the spleen and other secondary lymphoid tissues where they mature and differentiate into immunocompetent B cells.
Memory B-cells: Memory B-cells are formed from activated B-cells. These cells are specific to an antigen that has previously entered the body. Memory B-cells, which are present in the bone marrow, lymph nodes, and spleen, are able to respond quickly when they are exposed to the same antigen in the future.
B cells are a specific type of white blood cell called a lymphocyte. Other types of lymphocytes include T cells and natural killer cells. B cells develop from stem cells in bone marrow. They remain in the bone marrow until they become mature.
B cells, also known as B lymphocytes, are a type of white blood cell of the lymphocyte subtype. They function in the humoral immunity component of the adaptive immune system by secreting antibodies.
B cells are white blood cells that protect the body against pathogens such as bacteria and viruses. Pathogens and foreign matter have associated molecular signals that identify them as antigens. B cells recognize these molecular signals and produce antibodies that are specific to the specific antigen.
B cells, unlike the other 2 classes of lymphocytes, T cells and natural killer cells, express B cell receptors (BCRs) on their cell membrane. BCRs allow the B cell to bind a specific antigen, against which it will initiate an antibody response.
B Cells and Antibodies. B cells are a type of white blood cell. They are similar to swallowing cells like macrophages but they are specific, meaning they can only attack one kind of intruder. B cells create antibodies during an immune response.