In some countries it is against the law to use the registered trademark symbol for a mark that is not officially registered in any country. Trademarks not officially registered can instead be marked with the trademark symbol ™, while unregistered service marks are marked with the service mark symbol ℠. The proper manner to display these symbols is immediately following the mark, and is commonly in superscript style but is not legally required
Report Abuse. A registered trademark is a trademark that is registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. All other trademarks, even if they are registered with a state's Secretary of State, is not a registered trademark.. Registered trademarks can use the ® symbol. All others us tm..
A trademark, trade mark, or trade-mark is a recognizable sign, design, or expression which identifies products or services of a particular source from those of others, although trademarks used to identify services are usually called service marks. The trademark owner can be an individual, business organization, or any legal entity. A trademark may be located on a package, a label, a voucher, or on the product itself.
The registered trademark symbol (®) is a symbol that provides notice that the preceding word or symbol is a trademark or service mark that has been registered with a national trademark office. A trademark is a symbol, word, or words legally registered or established by use as representing a company or product. Trademarks not officially registered can instead be marked with the trademark symbol ™, while unregistered service marks are marked with the service mark symbol ℠.
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Trademarks can be names of products or services, logos, slogans, packaging and even sounds and smells. In essence, a trademark can be almost anything that is used to identify a particular product or service. Registering a trademark grants the owner exclusive rights to the mark within the specified industry. 
3. What does the symbol ® mean? The symbol ® is a notice of registered ownership used in many countries or regions to advise the public that a trademark or service mark is registered and to provide constructive notice of the legal ownership status of the mark with which it is used. The symbol SM functions similarly to the symbol TM, in that it is used to provide notice of a claim of common-law rights in a mark; however, it is used in connection with a service mark, covering services, such as banking or legal services, rather than tangible goods.
A registered trademark confers a bundle of exclusive rights upon the registered owner, including the right to exclusive use of the mark in relation to the products or services for which it is registered. The trademark owner can be an individual, business organization, or any legal entity. A trademark may be located on a package, a label, a voucher, or on the product itself.
noun. Registered trademark is a distinctive mark or symbol to which a person or company has declared ownership by filing the trademark with the US Patent and Trademark Office. The Nike swoosh is an example of a registered trademark. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: A registered trademark is a mark that has a Federal trademark registration. This can be a name, a logo, a slogan, packaging & even sounds and smells. Registering a trademark grants the owner exclusive rights to the mark within the specified industry. A registered trademark is a trademark that is registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. All other trademarks, even if they are registered with a state's Secretary of State, is not a registered trademark.. Registered trademarks can use the ® symbol. All others us tm..
The symbol “TM” stands for trademark, while “SM” stands for service mark. These symbols may be used for any mark which a person claims rights to, even if they have not officially filed a registration with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. 