Meaning of Troy-What does the name Troy mean? Pronunciation: troi Gender: Boy Name Origin: English Name Meaning: Transferred use of the surname originating from the place-name Troyes in Aube, Normandy. Troy, as a city, no longer exists. However the site of Troy is believed to be close to the sea in north-west Turkey.   Answer   The site of ancient Troy is as certain … as anything in archeology can be. It is the mound of Hisarlik located on the eastern side of the Dardenelles in modern Turkey.
What does Troy mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Troy is of Irish origin. The meaning of Troy is foot soldier. It is also of English origin, where its meaning is from troyes. View the Troy Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Troy has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Troy to other names. Variants of the name Troy include Troi. The name Priam is a form of Troy. Some famous bearers of this name include: Troy Donohue, Troy Aikman
In English, the name Troy means-Troy derives from the ancient Greek city of Troy; also from an Irish surname meaning soldier... Other origins for the name Troy include-English, Irish, Irish, French.The name Troy is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-Troy derives from the ancient Greek city of Troy; also from an Irish surname meaning soldier.. Origin-English. Alternate Origins-Irish Irish French. Expression num - 6.
Troy is used mostly in English and its language of origin is French. Troy's meaning is man from Troyes; foot soldier. The first name is either derived from the French surname, itself from the place name of Troyes in France, or else it could be from the Old Irish for 'foot soldier'. The Hawaiian Koi, the name Troi, the name Troix, the name Troye, and the name Troyton are derivatives of Troy. Troy is a classic favorite. Today it is still a popular baby name for boys, though it was in more widespread use previously.
Alternatively, the name may be bestowed in reference to the name of the ancient Phrygian city in northwestern Asia Minor, which was the scene of the Trojan War Origins: View this name in other origins-English, Irish. Also, Troy means foot-soldier because of the invasion of Troyes, Greece. If you want the cute, not completely literal, but it is a real meaning, then it's attractive, athletic, fun-loving, light hearted, layed back, high on life, and somewhat of a player. The Troy I know, that describes him accurately. Troy, as a city, no longer exists. However the site of Troy is believed to be close to the sea in north-west Turkey.   Answer   The site of ancient Troy is as certain … as anything in archeology can be. It is the mound of Hisarlik located on the eastern side of the Dardenelles in modern Turkey.
Meaning of Troy. English name. In English, the name Troy means-Troy derives from the ancient Greek city of Troy; also from an Irish surname meaning soldier... Other origins for the name Troy include-English, Irish, Irish, French.The name Troy is most often used as a boy name or male name. English Name Meaning-Troy derives from the ancient Greek city of Troy; also from an Irish surname meaning soldier.. Origin-English. Alternate Origins-Irish Irish French. Expression num - 6.
French Meaning: The name Troy is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Troy is: Curly haired. American Meaning: The name Troy is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Troy is: Curly haired.
Troy /troy/ [1 syll.] as a boys' name is pronounced troy. It is of Irish and Gaelic origin, and the meaning of Troy is descendant of the footsoldier. Surname given to those who migrated to England from the French city of Troyes after the Norman conquest of 1066. As a given name, Troy may derive from the ancient Greek city where the Trojan wars were fought. Actor Troy Donahue made the name popular in the 1960s and 1970s. Jane Fonda named one of her children Troy.
English Meaning: The name Troy is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Troy is: Troy derives from the ancient Greek city of Troy; also from an Irish surname meaning 'soldier. Greek Meaning: The name Troy is a Greek baby name. In Greek the meaning of the name Troy is: From Troy (ancient city). Irish Meaning: The name Troy is an Irish baby name. In Irish the meaning of the name Troy is: Foot soldier. The name Troy is a French baby name. In French the meaning of the name Troy is: Curly haired. American Meaning: The name Troy is an American baby name. In American