The Union victory in the Civil War in 1865 may have given some 4 million slaves their freedom, but the process of rebuilding the South during the Reconstruction period (1865-1877) introduced a new set of significant challenges. By 1870, all of the former Confederate states had been admitted to the Union, and the state constitutions during the years of Radical Reconstruction were the most progressive in the region’s history.
(Answer #2). Reconstruction was the period from 1865 - 1877 where the government of the United States tried to put the country together again after the Civil War. In general, historians consider it an unsuccessful effort for several reasons. But this really did not happen. As soon as Reconstruction ended and the Southern states were allowed to do what they wanted, they imposed segregation on blacks and did all sorts of things to prevent them from voting. In addition, Reconstruction failed to help blacks economically.
The political, social and economic conditions after the Civil War defined the goals of Reconstruction. At this time, Congress was divided politically on issues that grew out of the Civil War: readmitting southern states to the Union, rebuilding the south, black equality and deciding who would control the government. 
Reconstruction Failure. The reconstruction of the south was the period during and after the Civil War. where several different groups in the government tried to solve the economic, political, and social problems that arose as a result of the Civil War. It was a. time of disorder and chaos
Reconstruction did not occur during the Civil War. Reconstruction was after the terrible destruction of the war. And reconstruction was not entirely successful, despite what t … hat chapter in the history book tells you. Reconstruction first started with lincolns plan. It failed. Congress then tried a plan, but Lincoln pocket vetoed it. 
Explain. Reconstruction was a success in that it restored the United States as a unified nation: by 1877, all of the former Confederate states had drafted new constitutions, acknowledged the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and Fifteenth Amendments, and pledged their loyalty to the U.S. government. Indeed, Lincoln had made it clear during the Civil War that he was fighting to restore the Union, not to emancipate slaves. It is likely that Lincoln thus would have battled with Congress over the control of Reconstruction, blocked key Reconstruction policies, and met as vindictive a House as Johnson did 1868.
Emancipation and Reconstruction. At the outset of the Civil War, to the dismay of the more radical abolitionists in the North, President Abraham Lincoln did not make abolition of slavery a goal of the Union war effort. By 1870, all of the former Confederate states had been admitted to the Union, and the state constitutions during the years of Radical Reconstruction were the most progressive in the region’s history.
In the history of the United states reconstruction refers to the period between 1861 and 1865, when efforts were made, after the civil war, to restore the relations between North and the South, to improve status of the blacks and, to restore normalcy in the country. But this really did not happen. As soon as Reconstruction ended and the Southern states were allowed to do what they wanted, they imposed segregation on blacks and did all sorts of things to prevent them from voting. In addition, Reconstruction failed to help blacks economically.