Eviction can be more difficult than you might assume. There are certain reasons to evict a tenant, which include failure to pay and damage, and you can click that link to learn more about them. Still, while the process for eviction varies from state to state, it’s not impossible to evict a tenant from a rental property. Still, no matter what state you live in, if you want to evict a tenant from a rental property, your first step is putting it in writing. You do that with an eviction notice. RocketLawyer.com allows you to easily create and customize your Eviction Notice and can help you throughout the eviction process.
2. Learn the Landlord and Tenant Act. If you decide you can evict and want to move forward, get very familiar with the Landlord and Tenant Act, which explains the legal process for evicting a tenant. To win your case, you’ll need to follow the eviction procedure to the letter. You may also have to give the tenant time to correct the problem before you can file. Ohio law, for example, requires that landlords give a written warning three days before starting eviction proceedings, but does not require you to allow the tenant extra time to correct the problem.
1 You wish to evict the tenant for your own reasons, and your state's laws entitle you to do so. 2  In some states a landlord can evict a tenant with 30 to 60 days notice for reasons unrelated to the tenant's behavior. 3  For example, a landlord may need to evict tenants if he or she sells the building. 1 In some states a landlord can evict a tenant with 30 to 60 days notice for reasons unrelated to the tenant's behavior. 2  For example, a landlord may need to evict tenants if he or she sells the building.
Sometimes it becomes necessary to evict a tenant from one of your rental properties. While the process varies between jurisdictions, evictions usually follow a similar timeline of notifying your tenant of the impending eviction, going to court and then waiting for a law enforcement officer to enforce the eviction. 
Overview of the eviction process. If the tenant doesn't voluntarily move out after the landlord has properly given the required notice to the tenant, the landlord can evict the tenant. In order to evict the tenant, the landlord must file an unlawful detainer lawsuit in superior court. The landlord must use the court procedures. If the landlord uses unlawful methods to evict a tenant, the landlord may be subject to liability for the tenant's damages, as well as penalties of up to $100 per day for the time that the landlord used the unlawful methods.
The court-administered eviction process assures the tenant of the right to a court hearing if the tenant believes that the landlord has no right to evict the tenant. The landlord must use this court process to evict the tenant; the landlord cannot use self-help measures to force the tenant to move. The landlord must use the court procedures. If the landlord uses unlawful methods to evict a tenant, the landlord may be subject to liability for the tenant's damages, as well as penalties of up to $100 per day for the time that the landlord used the unlawful methods.
1. The first step in the eviction process is to terminate (end) the tenancy. You must determine what type of landlord-tenant relationship or “tenancy” you have with your tenant. There are two main types of tenancies: a tenancy-at-will and a tenancy under a lease. Tenancy at will. 
30-day written notice. Your landlord can evict you with 30 days notice for almost any reason or no reason. Exceptions: You may be able to stop the eviction if your landlord is evicting you because of retaliation or illegal discrimination.. Read Retaliation defense and Discrimination defense. To evict you with a 7-day notice, your landlord must have a reason and state that reason in writing. If you are a tenant at will (no lease), the reason must be one of these: 1  You have seriously damaged the apartment and have not repaired the damage. 2  You have been a nuisance to other tenants or neighbors