Part of this quotation, at least is Spanish. Pendejo is an insulting word more or less meaning dummy (but stronger as an insult) like Dumb butt only using a stronger word … than butt. To call someone pinche is also an insult, but I don't know an exact translation. It's a term used in anger to describe someone who is unpleasant, rude, obnoxious or arrogant (like a**hole in English). Over the years, like many crude slang terms, some classless groups have even adopted it as a semi-acceptable funny greeting between friends.
Burciaga said that pendejo is probably the least offensive of the various Spanish profanity words beginning in p, but that calling someone a pendejo is stronger than calling someone estupido. Estúpido burciaga Said among friends it can be taken, lightly but for others it is better to be angry enough to back it.. up Concha (lit. mollusk shell or inner ear) is an offensive word for a woman's vulva or vagina (something akin to English  cunt ) in Argentina, Chile, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay and Mexico. In the rest of Latin America and Spain however, the word is only used with its literal meaning.
Pendejo is a Spanish slang word, and is seen by many Spaniards as an offensive term. The meaning of the word pendejo is stupid, idiotic. It's a term used in anger to describe someone who is unpleasant, rude, obnoxious or arrogant (like a**hole in English). Over the years, like many crude slang terms, some classless groups have even adopted it as a semi-acceptable funny greeting between friends.
Answer by Dnsed323. Confidence votes 1.6K. The Spanish slang word pendejo is a vulgar term literally translated to mean pubic hair. It's a term used in anger to describe someone who is unpleasant, rude, obnoxious or arrogant (like a**hole in English). Over the years, like many crude slang terms, some classless groups have even adopted it as a semi-acceptable funny greeting between friends.
Pendejo. On the west side of San Antonio, Texas, I discovered that pendejo means more than just stupid which is what I had been told. The conotation on the west side had more to do with being called a fucking idiot.. Naturally, this was not taken too well and required some fancy explaining to get out of. spanish slang, with different meanings depending on the context. Can mean asshole, or dumbass (idiot, stupid) but much less severe than english cuss-words.. Can be a casual insult, depending on the context in which it is used.
In Peru, a pendejo is a smartass. Somebody that is skillful, but in a tricky way. Burciaga said that pendejo is probably the least offensive of the various Spanish profanity words beginning in p, but that calling someone a pendejo is stronger than calling someone estupido. estúpido Concha (lit. mollusk shell or inner ear) is an offensive word for a woman's vulva or vagina (something akin to English  cunt ) in Argentina, Chile, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay and Mexico. In the rest of Latin America and Spain however, the word is only used with its literal meaning.
Report Abuse. Pendejo is a vulgar Spanish-language term of abuse. To call a person a pendejo is essentially to call him stupid, although it also carries implications of wilful stubbornness and rank ineptitude. The female equivalent is pendeja; either form can be used as a noun or an adjective. In terms of equivalent cultural impact, it ranges somewhere at the level of the British English wanker or the U.S. English asshole. The literal meaning of pendejo is a strand of pubic hair. Etymologically it comes from the Latin pectiniculus.