Prominent 19th century suffragist and civil rights activist Elizabeth Cady Stanton (1815-1902) became involved in the abolitionist movement after a progressive upbringing. She helped organize the world’s first women’s rights convention in 1848, and formed the National Women’s Loyal League with Susan B. Anthony in 1863. In 1851, Cady Stanton met Susan B. Anthony, with whom she formed a lifelong partnership based on their common dedication to women’s emancipation. Three years later, she addressed the New York legislature on an omnibus women’s rights bill.
Born in November 1815 in Johnstown, New York, Elizabeth Cady was the daughter of Margaret Livingston and Daniel Cady, Johnstown's most prominent citizens. She received her formal education at the Johnstown Academy and at Emma Willard's Troy Female Seminary in New York. Elizabeth Cady Stanton (1815-1902). Author, lecturer, and chief philosopher of the woman’s rights movement, Elizabeth Cady Stanton formulated the agenda for woman’s rights that has guided the struggle to the present.
1 About Susan B. Anthony: Stanton's name is linked in history with that of her friend and colleague, Susan B. Anthony. 2  Find out more about Anthony, too, on this site. 3  Woman Suffrage: more resources on the woman suffrage movement, the life cause of Elizabeth Cady Stanton. Related topics on this site. 1 
Elizabeth Cady Stanton summary: Elizabeth Cady Stanton was a social activist, one of the originators of the women’s movement in the United States, and an author, wife, and mother. With her good friend Susan B. Anthony, she campaigned tirelessly for women’s rights, particularly for the right to vote. Elizabeth Cady was born November 12, 1815, in Johnstown, New York, the eighth of 11 children born to Daniel Cady and Margaret Livingston Cady—she was one of six children who survived infancy and early childhood.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton (November 12, 1815 – October 26, 1902) was an American suffragist, social activist, abolitionist, and leading figure of the early women's rights movement. Stanton was president of the National Woman Suffrage Association from 1892 until 1900. Before Stanton narrowed her political focus almost exclusively to women's rights, she was an active abolitionist with her husband, Henry Brewster Stanton and cousin, Gerrit Smith.
Known for: Elizabeth Cady Stanton was a leader in 19th century activism for women's suffrage; Stanton often worked with Susan B. Anthony as the theorist and writer while Anthony was the public spokesperson. Dates: November 12, 1815 - October 26, 1902. Also known as: E. C. Stanton. Related topics on this site. 1  About Susan B. Anthony: Stanton's name is linked in history with that of her friend and colleague, Susan B. Anthony. 2  Find out more about Anthony, too, on this site. 3  Woman Suffrage: more resources on the woman suffrage movement, the life cause of Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
That convention, and the Declaration of Sentiments written by Elizabeth Cady Stanton which was approved there, is credited with initiating the long struggle towards women's rights and woman suffrage. After 1851, Stanton worked in close partnership with Susan B. Anthony. Related topics on this site. 1  About Susan B. Anthony: Stanton's name is linked in history with that of her friend and colleague, Susan B. Anthony. 2  Find out more about Anthony, too, on this site. 3  Woman Suffrage: more resources on the woman suffrage movement, the life cause of Elizabeth Cady Stanton.
Later Work. As a part of her work on behalf of women’s rights, Elizabeth Cady Stanton often traveled to give lectures and speeches. She called for an amendment to the U.S. Constitution giving women the right to vote. Stanton also worked with Anthony on the first three volumes of the History of Woman Suffrage (1881–6). During the Civil War Elizabeth Cady Stanton concentrated her efforts on abolishing slavery, but afterwards she became even more outspoken in promoting women suffrage. In 1868, she worked with Susan B. Anthony on the Revolution, a militant weekly paper.
Elizabeth Cady Stanton Biography. Born: November 12, 1815 Johnstown, New York Died: October 26, 1902 New York, New York. American writer and women's rights activist. The writer and reformer Elizabeth Cady Stanton (1815–1902) was perhaps the most gifted feminist leader in American history. Elizabeth Cady was born in Johnstown, New York, on November 12, 1815. She came from a wealthy and politically important family. Her father, Daniel Cady (1773–1859), was a well-known lawyer who had served in Congress, on the New York state legislature, and as a judge on the New York state supreme court.