Make sure you don't have broken ribs. A rib that's bruised or cracked is damaged, but still in its place in the rib cage. A broken rib, however, is dangerous because it's been dislodged from its normal position, and could potentially puncture a lung or another organ.
More about your injury. A rib fracture can be very painful because your ribs move when you breathe, cough, and move your upper body. The ribs in the middle of the chest are the ones that break most often. Rib fractures often occur with other chest and organ injuries. So your doctor will also check to see if you have any other injuries.
The muscles used for breathing pull on the ribs, so breathing may be very painful when you have a fractured rib. It is important to see a doctor after a rib injury. A blow that is hard enough to fracture a rib could also injure your lungs, spleen, blood vessels, or other parts of your body.
In most cases, the most prominent symptom of a bruised rib is pain. This pain will typically be worse when moving or twisting the torso. For some people, there is also significant pain when breathing, and individuals with bruised ribs usually experience severe pain when touching the area of the injury.
Broken (fractured) or bruised ribs are usually caused by a fall or blow to the chest, or occasionally by severe coughing. They can be very painful, but will normally improve within about three to six weeks. If you think you've injured your ribs, you'll often be able to look after yourself at home.
A rib fracture can be very painful because your ribs move when you breathe, cough, and move your upper body. The ribs in the middle of the chest are the ones that break most often. Rib fractures often occur with other chest and organ injuries. So your doctor will also check to see if you have any other injuries.
Introduction. Broken (fractured) or bruised ribs are usually caused by a fall or blow to the chest, or occasionally by severe coughing. They can be very painful, but will normally improve within about three to six weeks. If you think you've injured your ribs, you'll often be able to look after yourself at home.