The Hive and the Honey Bee, the “Bible” of beekeeping, indicates that a bee’s flight speed averages about 15 miles per hour and they’re capable of flying 20 miles per hour. We captured these photos today of a honey bee nectaring on catmint (genus Nepeta). The bee was moving fast. To blur the wings, we set the shutter speed at 1/640 of a second with an f-stop of 13 and IS0 of 800.
I bet your bosses dad saw that the 'wings' of a bumblebee travel at 428 mph. They do move up and down very, very fast. This is possible due to an elastic type set up that allows the bee to pull the wings in one direction, then the wings spring back. Read Weird Wing Facts at http://www.szgdocent.org/resource/ff/f-a...
Honey bees can can top out at speeds of 20mph when flying. However, they usually go closer to 12-15mph because they are carrying pollen or water for their hive. To compare, an average human runs 7-10mph. 1  Share. 
Foraging bumblebees cover a lot of ground quickly. Jupiterimages/Photos.com/Getty Images. Since the 1930s, an urban legend has circulated that bumblebees should not be capable of flight. In fact, bumblebees not only can fly but science now understands how they fly so well. Bumblebees can fly, on average, 3.3 yards per second. The fastest flying speeds have been recorded among foraging bees that can go as fast as 16 yards per second. These high speeds and their flying ability, in general, can be traced back to the structure of their wings, which are rigid in front and more flexible in the rear.
We captured these photos today of a honey bee nectaring on catmint (genus Nepeta). The bee was moving fast. To blur the wings, we set the shutter speed at 1/640 of a second with an f-stop of 13 and IS0 of 800. 
According to The Hive and the Honey Bee, a bees flight speed varies from 20.9 kilometers per hour (kph) to 25.7 kph. This is an average of about 24 kph, or 15 miles per hou … r. They fly slightly faster when leaving the hive empty and slower when returning with nectar, pollen or water. The average speed is 15 mph. I would say under 10 mph. I don't know where the answer above came from, but I can tell you that I was just out riding my bike in no wind and had a bumble bee in FRONT of me for about 20 yards while I was going 27 mph.
Confidence votes 9. 20 mph is the max speed of a bumble bee. The average speed is 15 mph. I would say under 10 mph. I don't know where the answer above came from, but I can tell you that I was just out riding my bike in no wind and had a bumble bee in FRONT of me for about 20 yards while I was going 27 mph.
Bumble bees and honey bees can both fly at an average speed of about 15 miles per hour (24 kilometres per hour). According to The Hive and the Honey Bee, a bees flight speed varies from 20.9 kilometers per hour (kph) to 25.7 kph. This is an average of about 24 kph, or 15 miles per hou … r. They fly slightly faster when leaving the hive empty and slower when returning with nectar, pollen or water. 31 people found this useful
While the average speed for a bumblebee is 3.3 yards per second, their speeds can vary with their activities. The fastest flying speeds have been recorded among foraging bees that can go as fast as 16 yards per second. These high speeds and their flying ability, in general, can be traced back to the structure of their wings, which are rigid in front and more flexible in the rear.