Muscle Relaxants. Those spasms which cause really pronounced discomfort can be treated with muscle relaxers. These medications deliver relaxation to the muscles that are affected. This medication used along with pain relievers is a very effective method for the management of muscle spasms in the neck. There are many causes for muscle spasms – some result from problems in the spinal anatomy but also occur from soft tissue injuries or a regional process, such as ischemia. Neck spasms are seen in some individual since childhood and these are called torticollis or they begin in adulthood where they are called trapezitis.
Neck spasms can be from a variety of causes. Most seriously, trauma to the bones or muscles of the neck can cause spasm of the supporting musculature. Any history of neck trauma should be taken very seriously and should be seen by a physician as soon as possible.
Muscle spasms and cramps. Cramps are caused by muscle spasms, involuntary contractions of one or more muscles. In addition to the foot and calf muscles, other muscles prone to spasms include the front and back of the thigh, the hands, arms, abdomen and muscles along the ribcage. 
The most common causes of neck cramps or spasms are torticollis, sprain or strain, and muscle spasm. Other possible causes, such as gastroesophageal reflux disease (gerd), are more rare. 
Neck spasms are involuntary contractions of the muscles in your neck. The muscles get tight, hard, and painful. Neck spasms may happen from an injury, overuse, poor posture, or stress. For example, it is common for people who do a lot of computer work to get a stiff neck. When the muscles that extend from your shoulders to your head go into spasm, the spasms may even cause headaches. You may have tender spots in your neck, sometimes called trigger points, that cause pain in other places.
Muscle spasms are involuntary contractions of a muscle. They are a common components of neck pain and injuries and can be the result of many different conditions. In most cases, muscle spasms are minor annoyances that improve quickly on their own or with conservative treatments. Sometimes neck muscle spasms can be a sign of something more serious or progressiv
Spasms may even occur from an uncomfortable night's sleep. The muscles in your neck feel hard, tight, and painful. When the muscles that extend from your shoulders to your head go into spasm, the spasms may even cause headaches. You may have tender spots in your neck, sometimes called trigger points, that cause pain in other places.
Spasms in the neck are described as contractions of the muscles in the neck which are very painful. These contractions in the muscles cannot be released voluntarily. These muscle spasms are also referred to as a charley horse or a cramp. There are many causes for muscle spasms – some result from problems in the spinal anatomy but also occur from soft tissue injuries or a regional process, such as ischemia. Neck spasms are seen in some individual since childhood and these are called torticollis or they begin in adulthood where they are called trapezitis.
Neck pain and spasms (involuntary muscle contractions) can occur anywhere from the back of your head, down toward your shoulders and along the sides of your neck, or toward the center of your neck (Figure 1). Sometimes, especially if a nerve is being pinched, pain can go down your arm and/or into your hand. 1 A strain is a muscle injury. 2  a direct blow to the neck or a hit to the head or other part of the body that causes the neck to bend quickly in any direction. 3  Fractures of the bones in the neck and back can be caused by auto accidents, falls and contact sports.
Neck spasm is a sudden and involuntary contraction, or uncontrollable tightening and shaking, of a muscle in response to strain, overuse, weakness, or muscle pain related to injury or a disorder. In some conditions, such as cervical dystonia, the spasm may cause your head to turn or to jerk. Some, but not all, neck spasms occur close enough to the spinal cord or to the nerve roots leading in and out of the spinal cord to put pressure on one of these sensitive nerves and sometimes cause severe pain.