As a Jamaican, I must say that we are indeed special. The way we walk, the way we talk, even the way we approach and address situations. And, along with our uniquely “colourful” nature comes our own set of unique customs and traditions. This is a part of what makes us so special and sets us apart from the rest of world. The old adage, “you can spot a Jamaican in any crowd anywhere in the world” could never be truer. A lot of our customs have originated from our English background. 
Thus, it can be seen as the growth of a group identity fostered by social patterns unique to the group. The word culture derives from a French term, which in turn derives from the Latin colere, which means to tend to the earth and grow, or cultivation and nurture. Many countries are largely populated by immigrants, and the culture is influenced by the many groups of people that now make up the country. This is also a part of growth. As the countries grow, so does its cultural diversity.
Its people are a mixture of the many ethnicities that have landed on the island's shores over the past several centuries. Weathering enslavement and oppression, the Jamaicans are survivors, and their past is full of fascinating stories just waiting to be told. Film. Thanks to the picturesque landscape and the unique culture, Jamaica has always been a popular location to shoot scenes for Hollywood films. There have also been films made by locals in recent years that discuss social issues and every-day-life on the island.
Language is another way in which Jamaica demonstrates its melded culture. Although Jamaica's official language is English, many of its residents speak with their own linguistic style. There are even differences from village to village. Film. Thanks to the picturesque landscape and the unique culture, Jamaica has always been a popular location to shoot scenes for Hollywood films. There have also been films made by locals in recent years that discuss social issues and every-day-life on the island.
Our people are the life and soul of the island. The people make Jamaica, and Jamaica makes the people. Find out about the mesh of cultures and influences that have made us who we are today, and the people who call the island, home. Tags: Feel the Vibe. We’re a naturally warm and friendly bunch, welcoming tourists with huge smiles, and open arms. As a culture, we prefer to laugh than cry, dance than stand still, and express ourselves rather than hold back. Our complex past, marked by slavery and the struggle for independence, has made us proud, resilient and strong.
And, the impression that the Japanese have of Jamaican culture is very different from the impression that Haitians have. Liberal countries have multiple mini-cultures that continuously change and interweave to produce a dominant hybrid culture. The stark difference between the music of Bob Marley (above) and Vybz Kartel (below) causes many citizens to question what really is Jamaican culture.
Language. Our official language is English, which we speak in our unique Jamaican accent. But our street language is patois, which suits our personalities and sense of fun perfectly. A sing-song dialect, influenced by English and African languages, patois is easy to pick up and enjoyable to learn. As a culture, we prefer to laugh than cry, dance than stand still, and express ourselves rather than hold back. Our complex past, marked by slavery and the struggle for independence, has made us proud, resilient and strong.
Jamaican Culture. Jamaican culture describes the Jamaican religion, Jamaican lifestyle and Jamaican society on a whole. Jamaican culture is what defines a people. This portal links to all websites that deal with Jamaican culture. Jamaican culture can be divided into several sectors or sects, usually called Jamaican aspects of culture. Origin: Jamaican culture is defined as the origin of its entire population.
Jamaican culture represents a combination of cultures that have inhabited the Greater Antilles island, Jamaica. The original Taino Settlers, followed by their Spanish conquerors (who were in turn were conquered by the British), all made major contributions. African american slaves became the dominant cultural force as they suffered and resisted the harsh conditions of forced labour.
Jamaican Culture And Jamaican Traditions. Jamaican culture can be aptly described as the Jamaican human activity within different aspects of everyday life that relate to Jamaican traditions. Jamaican culture can be divided into several sectors or sects, usually called Jamaican aspects of culture. Origin: Jamaican culture is defined as the origin of its entire population.