By The Numbers: Today's Military. The number of Americans serving in the military is a small slice of the U.S. population. Here, a graphical look at the makeup of the military and the sacrifices those troops have made. 
Dear Ron, As of Jan. 31, there were close to 1.4 million people serving in the U.S. armed forces, according to the latest numbers from the Defense Manpower Data Center, a body of the Department of Defense. That means that 0.4 percent of the American population is active military personnel. I recently heard someone throw around the statistic that only about 2 percent of all living Americans have served in the military.
About 30 percent of those who do, states the report, still fail the Armed Forces Qualification Test, the entrance test required to join the US military. Another one in ten young people cannot serve because of past convictions for felonies or serious misdemeanors, states the report. About 75 percent of America's 17- to 24-year-olds are ineligible for military service due to lack of education, obesity and other physical problems, or criminal history, according to a report issued by the Mission: Readiness group.
Additionally, you don't have to be a U.S. citizen to join the Armed Forces. There are currently over 40,000 non-citizens serving. So, to answer your question the percentage of U.S. CITIZENS serving in the military (active and reserve) is 0.8732780475643017% of the population. Fun Fact: If everyone in the Armed Forces held hands, they could wrap around the Earth 4.41 times! Source(s): wikipedia.org.
The impact of the military draft is evident in the trends across age groups among men. The percentage of men who have served in the military jumps from about 20% among 45- to 59-year-olds to 39% among those aged 60 to 64, and then exceeds the 50% level among men who are older. 
As of 2014, the VA estimates there were 22 million military veterans in the U.S. population. If you add their figures on veterans to the active personnel numbers mentioned above, 7.3 percent of all living Americans have served in the military at some point in their lives. I recently heard someone throw around the statistic that only about 2 percent of all living Americans have served in the military.
In 1970, U.S. Census figures show, roughly half of the Sacramento region’s civilian male adults had served in the military. That share had dropped to one in six by 2012. Today, only 4 percent of Sacramento men aged 18 to 40 are veterans, compared with 54 percent of men 65 and older. And the raw number of service people is lower: Technology allows the United States to maintain the world’s most dominant and skilled military with far fewer people. About 16 million military personnel served in World War II; by comparison, there are 1.5 million Americans in uniform today.
Family connections with the military are the most likely in the South, where 64 percent reported having a family member who served. That compares with 56 percent of those in the Northeast, and 57 percent in the West. For adults over 50 who said they had family members who served in the military, those members were likely to have served before the draft ended. Some parts of the population are more likely than others to have a service member or veteran in their family.
Those with family ties to the military tend to be more critical of the way President Obama is handling his job as commander in chief. Forty-one percent say they disapprove, compared with 34 percent for those without a family member who served. For adults over 50 who said they had family members who served in the military, those members were likely to have served before the draft ended. Some parts of the population are more likely than others to have a service member or veteran in their family.