Shipments are held for up to 7 calendar days free of charge. If you have a shipment that could not be delivered for an unexpected reason, DHL Express will on your instructions hold the shipment for up to 7 calendar days after the first delivery attempt, free of charge. Thereafter charges apply. 1 Delivery on an Alternative Date. 2  When you know that you will not be at home to receive your shipment, you can instead request us to make a delivery on any business day within the next 7 calendar days. 3  If we don’t hear from you, we attempt to deliver the shipment on the next delivery cycle. 4  No charge applies.
Best Answer: Both DHL and UPS only do Saturday deliveries as an optional extra, so unless you specifically payed more it will not arrive until Monday at the earliest. You should, however, have a tracking number. Both DHL and UPS provide tracking numbers so you should be able to find out exactly where the parcel is, and when it will reach you. I've added the web addresses for the tracking info below. Source(s): http://www.dhl.com/en/express/tracking.h...
DHL Express can also pick up your urgent shipments on Saturdays. Simply call DHL Express Customer Services! The courier will pick up the shipment within an agreed time window of 90 minutes. You can also agree regular fixed pick-up times. In Germany and within the EU, we deliver on the next working day even with Saturday pick-up. Simply call DHL Express Customer Services ! The courier will pick up the shipment within an agreed time window of 90 minutes. You can also agree regular fixed pick-up times. Within the EU, we deliver even Saturday pick-ups on the next working day.
Simply call DHL Express Customer Services! Agree Saturday pick-up if the delivery date falls on a Sunday. The courier picks up the shipment from you within an agreed time window of 90 minutes. You can also agree regular fixed pick-up times. Simply call DHL Express Customer Services ! The courier will pick up the shipment within an agreed time window of 90 minutes. You can also agree regular fixed pick-up times. Within the EU, we deliver even Saturday pick-ups on the next working day.
Optional Services – Extend Your Shipping Choices. DHL offers a breadth of Optional Services-from non-standard deliveries and billing options to climate neutral shipping. With a flexible choice of service enhancements, you have added convenience when using our express delivery services worldwide. 1 Delivery on an Alternative Date. 2  When you know that you will not be at home to receive your shipment, you can instead request us to make a delivery on any business day within the next 7 calendar days. 3  If we don’t hear from you, we attempt to deliver the shipment on the next delivery cycle. 4  No charge applies.
DHL Express can also pick up your urgent shipments on Saturdays. Simply call DHL Express Customer Services ! The courier will pick up the shipment within an agreed time window of 90 minutes. You can also agree regular fixed pick-up times. Within the EU, we deliver even Saturday pick-ups on the next working day.
Report Abuse. Both will deliver on Saturday, if you paid for Saturday delivery. Neither delivers on Sunday. You'll have to go to the DHL or UPS website with your tracking number to get the projected delivery time. Be aware that US customs may take several weeks to clear. You should, however, have a tracking number. Both DHL and UPS provide tracking numbers so you should be able to find out exactly where the parcel is, and when it will reach you. I've added the web addresses for the tracking info below. Source(s): http://www.dhl.com/en/express/tracking.h...
Update: here is the DHL customer service numbers DHL Customer Services Customer Service For assistance with general shipping questions including tracking, pickups and supplies. 1-800-CALL-DHL (1-800-225-5345) or email us Attempted Delivery Inquiries 1-888-2-RETURN (1-888-273-8876) Technical Support For assistance... show more here is the DHL customer service numbers DHL Customer Services Customer Service For assistance with general shipping questions including tracking, pickups and supplies. RE: Does DHL deliver on SATURDAYS? I got my shipping notification that my item has reached Van Nuys CA at 9:10 11/15 which where i live 6 miles away from that place.