President Obama’s IQ score. President Obama’s IQ score is estimated to be in the 120 to 130 range. However, nowhere on the Internet can anyone locate Obama’s IQ score, nor his college transcripts, nor his college GPA.
Your LSAT Score Report includes. 1  Your current score. 2  Results of all tests—up to 12— for which you registered since June 1, 2010, including absences and cancellations. 3  Scores earned prior to June 2010 are not reportable. 4  An average score, if you have more than one reportable score on file.
Thus, basing Obama's estimated LSAT score of 171 ranks him in the top 98.8% (percent/percentile) range which is clearly above the lowest acceptable LSAT percentage rank of 95%, which clearly affirms that Obama has a qualifying intelligence quotient that would allow him acceptance into MENSA.
[Find additional tips and advice on LSAT prep .]. If your estimated score is on par with your target score, you may wish to add a few more safety schools to your list. This calculation was based on questions you absolutely got wrong, and you could have answered others incorrectly, too.
The LSAT (Law School Admission Test) is required for admission to most law schools and is offered four times each year. The top law schools will be looking for scores that are close to perfect (think 170 out of 180), so if you're aiming high, you need a high score.
The Law School Locator lists the 25th to 75th percentile LSAT scores and GPA ranges of first year classes at accredited law schools, entering in the fall of 2014. This means that half of a law school's entering class scored in the range indicated.
1 Your score band, if your score was earned on the 120–180 scale. 2  Score bands reflect the precision of the LSAT and are reported to emphasize that your LSAT score is an estimate of your actual proficiency level. 3  A score band is reported for each individual score, as well as for your average score, if available.
Obama’s LSAT Score and Mensa. MENSA accepts LSAT scores as a means of qualifying for MENSA membership. Please note that MENSA also accepts up to 200 various IQ tests as well other tests of mental acuity. The LSAT score required for MENSA membership is equal to a percentile of 95% or higher.