Diagnosis and Genetics. Cystic fibrosis is a genetic disease. People with CF have inherited two copies of the defective CF gene -- one copy from each parent. Both parents must have at least one copy of the defective gene. People with only one copy of the defective CF gene are called carriers, but they do not have the disease. Each time two CF carriers have a child, the chances are: 1  25 percent (1 in 4) the child will have CF. 2  50 percent (1 in 2) the child will be a carrier but will not have CF.
Huntington's disease is a progressive brain disorder caused by a single defective gene on chromosome 4 — one of the 23 human chromosomes that carry a person’s entire genetic code. This defect is dominant, meaning that anyone who inherits it from a parent with Huntington's will eventually develop the disease. The disorder is named for George Huntington, the physician who first described it in the late 1800s.
In people with CF, a defective gene causes a thick, buildup of mucus in the lungs, pancreas and other organs. In the lungs, the mucus clogs the airways and traps bacteria leading to infections, extensive lung damage and eventually, respiratory failure. People with only one copy of the defective CF gene are called carriers, but they do not have the disease. Each time two CF carriers have a child, the chances are: 1  25 percent (1 in 4) the child will have CF. 2  50 percent (1 in 2) the child will be a carrier but will not have CF.
Here enters gene therapy. Gene therapy offers the best hope for a life-saving treatment by tackling the root cause of CF, rather than only treating the symptoms (Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, 1998). The basic concept behind gene therapy is to identify the defective gene and to correct the defect with a normal gene. There are two forms of gene therapy that may be used as a method of treatment. The first is called germ line gene therapy. The other form of therapy is called somatic gene therapy. Somatic means of, relating to or affecting the body. This therapy involves changing the defective gene in the individual but the change won't be inherited by the next generation.
In theory, this defective gene would be replaced by a gene that was normal and this protein would then be able to do what it's suppose to do. However, gene therapy comes with some limitations as well as abilities. One of the first limitations is how to get the 'normal' gene to replace the defective one. The other form of therapy is called somatic gene therapy. Somatic means of, relating to or affecting the body. This therapy involves changing the defective gene in the individual but the change won't be inherited by the next generation.
Gene therapy is the use of genetic instructions to produce a protein to treat a disorder or deficiency. It can aid in a disease even if the therapy is not directly targeting a gene defect that causes the disease. In ALS, a few percent of patients have a known defect in a gene. This genetic mistake, in the gene coding for the SOD1 protein, produces disease no different from any other form of ALS, inherited or not.
In some diseases, researchers already know that a defective gene is not able to work. They have the potential means to cure the disease, by replacing the defective gene with a correct, working copy. In ALS, only a few percent of patients have a known gene defect. For the rest, it may be one undiscovered gene that is the problem, or it may be several. In ALS, a few percent of patients have a known defect in a gene. This genetic mistake, in the gene coding for the SOD1 protein, produces disease no different from any other form of ALS, inherited or not.
Huntington's Disease (HD) is a progressive brain disorder caused by a defective gene. This disease causes changes in the central area of the brain, which affect movement, mood and thinking skills. This defect is dominant, meaning that anyone who inherits it from a parent with Huntington's will eventually develop the disease. The disorder is named for George Huntington, the physician who first described it in the late 1800s.
“What’s exciting about this approach is that we can actually correct a defective gene in a living adult animal,” says Daniel Anderson, the Samuel A. Goldblith Associate Professor of Chemical Engineering at MIT, a member of the Koch Institute for Integrative Cancer Research, and the senior author of the paper. 
An autosomal dominant disorder is caused by just one defective gene from either parent. “Autosomal” means that the defective gene is located on any of the chromosomes that are not the sex chromosomes (X or Y). If one parent has the gene, each child of the couple has a 50% chance of inheriting the disorder. Sex-Linked Disorder: A genetic disorder caused by a defective gene or genes that are located on the sex chromosomes. Sperm: A cell produced in the male testes that can fertilize a female egg. Trimesters: The three 3-month periods into which pregnancy is divided.