There are many benefits of using live streaming services to broadcast your event. Setting up a live stream on your own requires a lot of technical skills. Sure, you can buy your own server with Wowza but it will be quite complicated and expensive. You need to have a live streaming service with a robust infrastructure and a good CDN to achieve high quality video. A CDN, or content delivery network, works as a global delivery system that distributes your content using their own server.
The benefits of live stream are numerous and there are a wide variety of ways that a business can improve upon their daily operations and move further into the black. Conference calls can be costly, especially when a business has to dip into their coffers and dole out money for everyone's transportation costs. For example, many businesses are making the shift from an automated help desk to one that is based in live streaming. Instead of frustrating customers by forcing them to deal with an cold and impersonal help desk, one of the benefits of live stream is that your clients are able to talk to a real, live human being.
Of course, all of these benefits don’t come without a big challenge. In order for live streaming to be truly beneficial you need a good number of viewers and, because live streaming happens in-the-moment and, usually, only for a matter of hours, it can be difficult getting eyeballs. I spoke with Bern Rexer of MXPI, a thirteen-year veteran of live television and live streaming production, to find out more about how live streaming works on YouTube, as well as some of the benefits and challenges of the medium.
Marketing budgets are able to be trimmed, which is one of the many benefits of live stream. For businesses that rely on an international staff in order to market their products, live stream is an absolute godsend. For example, many businesses are making the shift from an automated help desk to one that is based in live streaming. Instead of frustrating customers by forcing them to deal with an cold and impersonal help desk, one of the benefits of live stream is that your clients are able to talk to a real, live human being.
One of the many benefits of live streaming is that it cuts out the middleman between you and your customers. Spending your marketing budget on the exclusive release party can be fun, but it does not provide the same sort of personal touch that launching your product directly to the customers does. For example, many businesses are making the shift from an automated help desk to one that is based in live streaming. Instead of frustrating customers by forcing them to deal with an cold and impersonal help desk, one of the benefits of live stream is that your clients are able to talk to a real, live human being.
Home / What is Webcasting / benefits of streaming events. Webcasting is already being leveraged by companies of all sizes in order to expand the reach and impact of key events, meetings and messages. Depending upon the nature of your business, you can use live streaming or on-demand videos in numerous ways: Below is a list of just some of those benefits: 1  Wider audiences: Through webcasting, you have the potential to reach anyone remotely; all a participant needs is access to the Internet. 2  The biggest benefit is that you can dramatically widen access to information and events.
Summary – Video Script. Welcome to the online video masterclass. Today we’ll be assessing the true benefits of live streaming your events. 1. Live Streaming Internet Video Could Generate A Bigger Audience. Any event has geographical and physical restrictions no matter where it is. Streaming events and content live on the web makes it accessible to a worldwide audience
Andy Havard of Skeleton Productions presents this Video Marketing mini-series which will include tracking, YouTube and live streaming. In this episode, Andy explains what the true benefits are of live streaming your events. Welcome to the online video masterclass. Today we’ll be assessing the true benefits of live streaming your events. 1. Live Streaming Internet Video Could Generate A Bigger Audience. Any event has geographical and physical restrictions no matter where it is. Streaming events and content live on the web makes it accessible to a worldwide audience
When it comes to live streaming, there are simply too many benefits to be ignored. Saving valuable money, enhancing your connection to the customers and streamlining the way you do business each day are just a few of the many benefits that a business can gain by making the change to live streaming. For example, many businesses are making the shift from an automated help desk to one that is based in live streaming. Instead of frustrating customers by forcing them to deal with an cold and impersonal help desk, one of the benefits of live stream is that your clients are able to talk to a real, live human being.