BATHYAL ZONE. Creatures such as this brittlestar, squid, and hatchetfish inhabit the bathyal zone, or mid-depths, between 200–2,000 m (660–6,600 ft). Some sunlight penetrates the upper bathyal zone down to about 1,000 m (3,300 ft). Here the water temperature may be about 5°C (41°F). No light reaches the dark zone beyond, where temperatures fall to -2°C (28°F). 
Bathyal zone. The bathyal zone or bathypelagic – from Greek βαθύς, deep – is the part of the pelagic zone that extends from a depth of 1000 to 4000 metres below the ocean surface. It lies between the mesopelagic above, and the abyssopelagic below. The average temperature hovers at about 39 °F.
Bathyal zone. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. The layers of the pelagic zone. The bathyal zone or bathypelagic – from Greek βαθύς (bathýs), deep – (also known as midnight zone) is the part of the pelagic zone that extends from a depth of 1000 to 4000 metres (3300 to 13000 feet) below the ocean surface. It lies between the mesopelagic above, and the abyssopelagic below. Many forms of nekton live in the bathyal zone, such as squid, large whales, and octopuses, but this zone is difficult for fish to live in. Sponges, brachiopods, sea stars, and echinoids are also common in the bathyal zone.
Page 3 – The bathypelagic zone. In the bathypelagic zone (1,000–4,000 metres deep) there is a total absence of sunlight. Bioluminescence (light produced by living creatures) is the only source of light. Food is even scarcer than in the mesopelagic zone above. 
Bathyal Zone. ﻿The Bathyal zone lies deeper than the continental shelf but shallower than the deep ocean floor. This zone lies between 200- 4000 meters and descends into the Abyssal zone. Plants are not found in this zone since sunlight can not reach to this depth. The only light in this zone is produced by the animals themselves and because of this some animals in this zone do not possess eyes since they would not be very useful. If the organism does have eyes, they are small. The fish in this zone have become very energy efficient due to the lack of nutrients in the area.
The bathyal zone is a marine ecologic realm that is deep below sea  level and is in permanent darkness. The animals that live there are  carnivorous because there is no prim … ary production of plants. Eels,  squid, crustaceans, some fish, large whales, sponges, octopuses,  and sea stars live in this deep sea area. 
The mesopelagic zone starts 200 meters below the surface and extends to 1,000 meters (3,300 feet). The bathypelagic zone is from 1,000 meters to 4,000 meters (13,000 ft). The abyssopelagic zone is 4,000 meters and below. While most sea turtles stay in the epipelagic zone, leatherbacks have been recorded diving down into the bathypelagic zone. The upper portion of the epipelagic zone receives sunlight that drives photosynthesis in microscopic floating plants called phytoplankton. 
In between the euphotic and the bathyal zone is the twilight zone, an area that still receives some sunlight, but not enough for plants to grow. The bathyal zone (aka midnight) is the middle zone that has no light. Many zooplankton and smaller fish live here. The euphotic zone is from the surface of the ocean down 200 meters. This zone is also sometimes called the sunlight zone because there is enough sunlight to have photosynthesis. This zone has the highest levels of sunlight, photosynthesis, and dissolved oxygen. Many large predatory