Gouache (gwash – rhymes with squash), also called opaque watercolor, is paint that is heavier than traditional transparent watercolors. Its use is centuries old. From the Italian “guazzo”, meaning “water paint”, it appears to go back some 800 years, used originally to illuminate manuscripts.
Definition: Gouache is an water-soluble paint that is opaque, rather than transparent like watercolor. Gouache and watercolor paints can be used together. White is one of the paint colors available in gouache, unlike watercolors, where the paper is preserved, or kept pristine, as the white in the painting.
Gouache [p] (/ɡuːˈaeʃ/ ; [ɡuːˈæʃ]), ˈɡwaʃ also spelled, guache is a type of paint in the category watermedia consisting of, pigment a binding (agent usually gum), arabic and sometimes added inert, material designed to be used in an opaque. Method it also refers to paintings that use this opaque. method
How to Paint With Gouache. Gouache is a type of paint, and its main appeal is that it is water-based. Other than that, it is very similar to acrylics. However, the fact that it's water-based renders it different uses than acrylics. It could also be described as concentrated watercolors, which makes it heavier and more opaque.
[ˈɡwaʃ]), also spelled guache, is a type of paint in the category watermedia consisting of pigment, a binding agent (usually gum arabic), and sometimes added inert material, designed to be used in an opaque method. It also refers to paintings that use this opaque method. The name derives from the Italian guazzo.
Gouache (pronounced “gwosh,” in your Frenchiest accent please) is a type of paint which is centuries old, and yet relatively few people even know of its existence today. It’s a medium worth discovering, with characteristics of both acrylic and watercolor that can be used to create vibrant, luminous works of art.
This is an important difference. Gouache is like watercolour paint in that gum arabic is used as the binder and pigments provides the colour. Whereas, the white of the paper provides the light for watercolours, the brilliance of gouache comes from white pigment which is added to the paint to make it opaque.