If you're a gamer, you take your choice of keyboard seriously. We've rounded up the 10 best keyboards you can buy, along with a brief guide to help you find the keyboard that's right for you. When your keyboard doubles as your game controller, it's more than just a tool for typing.
6 Comments. There is a great divide amongst gamers when it comes to console vs. PC gaming. After much research and personal experience, we want to highlight how many games are better experienced with a keyboard and mouse than with a controller.
A mechanical keyboard uses a single type of switch from a specific manufacturer. So if a vendor releases a new keyboard, they can pick which switch that they want to use on their keyboard. The most popular one is the Cherry MX switch, often used on a gaming keyboard: Cherry MX Blue, Brown, Black, Red, and Clear.
Depending on what you use with your PC, a mechanical keyboard could help you type more quickly and more accurately, and it will last far longer than a standard PC pack-in keyboard will. The classic IBM Model M keyboard.
Why mechanical keyboard? Because typing (and gaming) in a mechanical keyboard is so much better compared to a standard keyboard. For typing and chatting, it’s less tiring because you don’t need to press the keys all the way to register and it also has a better tactile feedback after pressing a key.
Best Answer: I personally don't see any difference with gaming keyboards and regular keyboards (other than one is shiny and lights up). They have the same buttons that do the same function. And those extreme gaming keyboards that barely resemble a keyboard looks as if it would be a pain to type on. I'd say a regular keyboard would be best for gaming when you factor in the price. However gaming mice have a difference over regular mice. Most mice have 3 buttons, gaming mice have 5-7 buttons, sometimes more. More buttons on the mouse means less moving on the keyboard, and very well could affect your gaming. there are many internet mice that have 5 buttons that would work very well for gaming.
However, I’d love to try a mechanical keyboard with the Cherry MX Brown switches as I type more than gaming nowadays, thanks to this blog. Some say Black is better, or Brown is better, or Blue.