A period cost is any cost that cannot be capitalized into prepaid expenses, inventory, or fixed assets. A period cost is more closely associated with the passage of time than with a transactional event. Since a period cost is essentially always charged to expense at once, it may more appropriately be called a period expense. A period cost is charged to expense in the period incurred. This type of cost is not included within the cost of goods sold on the income statement. Instead, it is typically included within the selling and administrative expenses section of the income statement. Examples of period costs are: 1  Selling expense
Income Statement Format and Components. The Income Statement shows the revenues, expenses, and profits (or losses) of an entity over a specified period of time. In other words, it is a description of the entities profitability over a period of time (usually quarterly or annually). The purpose of the income statement is to provide the financial earnings performance of the entity over a specific period of time. It is also referred to as a profit and loss statement or earnings statement.
These costs are expensed on the income statement in the period in which they are incurred, using the usual rules of accrual accounting that we learn in financial accounting. Period costs are not included as part of the cost of either purchased or manufactured goods. Sales commissions and office rent are good examples of period costs. Both items are expensed on the income statement in the period in which they are incurred. Thus they are said to be period costs.
Income Statement Overview. The income statement presents the financial results of a business for a stated period of time. The income statement is an essential part of the financial statements that an organization releases. The other parts of the financial statements are the balance sheet and statement of cash flows. 
Fixed overhead costs are expensed in the period in which they are incurred. Segmented income statements are prepared using the variable-costing approach to evaluate the performance of segments. The difference between the contribution margin and the direct fixed costs for the segment is called the segment margin. 
An income statement is a report that shows how much revenue a company earned over a specific time period (usually for a year or some portion of a year). An income statement also shows the costs and expenses associated with earning that revenue. 
The Income Statement and COGS. An income statement is the financial statement in which a company reports its income and expenses. If income exceeds expense during the reporting period, there is a net profit; if not, the company has suffered a loss. COGS are reported under expenses as the costs directly related to either the product or goods sold by a company or the costs of acquiring inventory to sell to consumers. If the cost of goods sold exceeds the revenue generated by the company during the reporting period, the revenue did not generate a profit.
Purpose of the Income Statement. The purpose of the income statement is to provide the financial earnings performance of the entity over a specific period of time. It is also referred to as a profit and loss statement or earnings statement.
Income Statement. The income statement, also called the profit and loss statement, is a report that shows the income, expenses, and resulting profits or losses of a company during a specific time period. Either presentation is acceptable. Income statement expenses can also be formatted by the nature and the function of the expense. All income statements have a heading that display's the company name, title of the statement and the time period of the report.
To understand the difference between product costs and period costs, we must first refresh our understanding of the matching principle from financial accounting. Generally costs are recognized as expenses on the income statement in the period that benefits from the cost. Period costs are not included as part of the cost of either purchased or manufactured goods. Sales commissions and office rent are good examples of period costs. Both items are expensed on the income statement in the period in which they are incurred. Thus they are said to be