Spermatogenesis is the process in which male haploid germ cells are  produced from diploid spematogonial stem cells by way of mitosis  and meiosis. This occurs in the same … way in rats in the  seminiferous tubules boundaries of the testes. Aaron McClellan. Spermatogenesis is the process during which spermatozoa cells are  produced. They are critical in the process of meiosis, which is  responsible for reproduction in animals a … nd plants.
spermatogenesis in the male germ cell-Spermatogenesis is the process by which male gametogonia develop into mature spermatozoa, the mature male gametes, in many sexually reproducing organisms. In mammals it occurs in the male testes and epididymis in a stepwise fashion, and for humans takes approximately 64 days. 
Spermatogenesis is the process of sperm cell development. Rounded immature sperm cells undergo successive mitotic and meiotic divisions (spermatocytogenesis) and a metamorphic change (spermiogenesis) to produce spermatozoa. Mitosis and meiosis. Mitosis is the process of cell duplication-two daughter cells are formed with exactly the same DNA and chromosomal content of the original diploid (2N) mother cell. Human cells contain 46 chromosomes - 22 pairs of homologous autosomes and one pair of sex chromosomes.
The seminiferous tubules of the testes are the starting point for the process, where stem cells adjacent to the inner tubule wall divide in a centripetal direction—beginning at the walls and proceeding into the innermost part, or lumen —to produce immature sperm. Maturation occurs in the epididymis. The location [Testes/Scrotum] is specifically important as the process of spermatogenesis requires a lower temperature to produce viable sperm, specifically 1°-8 °C lower than normal body temperature of 37 °C (98.6 °F).
Thus, the primary spermatocyte gives rise to two cells, the secondary spermatocytes, and the two secondary spermatocytes by their subdivision produce four spermatozoa. Spermatozoa are the mature male gametes in many sexually reproducing organisms. Thus, spermatogenesis is the male version of gametogenesis. In mammals it occurs in the seminiferous tubules of the male testes in a stepwise fashion. Maturation occurs in the epididymis. The location [Testes/Scrotum] is specifically important as the process of spermatogenesis requires a lower temperature to produce viable sperm, specifically 1°-8 °C lower than normal body temperature of 37 °C (98.6 °F).
Spermatogenesis is the process in which male haploid germ cells are  produced from diploid spematogonial stem cells by way of mitosis  and meiosis. This occurs in the same … way in rats in the  seminiferous tubules boundaries of the testes. 
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Spermatogenesis is the process in which spermatozoa are produced from male primordial germ cells by way of mitosis and meiosis. The initial cells in this pathway are called spermatogonia, which yield primary spermatocytes by mitosis. Maturation occurs in the epididymis. The location [Testes/Scrotum] is specifically important as the process of spermatogenesis requires a lower temperature to produce viable sperm, specifically 1°-8 °C lower than normal body temperature of 37 °C (98.6 °F).
The seminiferous tubules of the testes are the starting point for the process, where stem cells adjacent to the inner tubule wall divide in a centripetal direction—beginning at the walls and proceeding into the innermost part, or lumen—to produce immature sperm. 
Let's review. Spermatogenesis is the process by which the male gametes, called sperm, are created. Spermatogenesis takes place in the seminiferous tubules, which are an intricate system of tubules in the testes where spermatogenesis takes place. Sperm Production. In humans, spermatogenesis takes place in the seminiferous tubules, which are an intricate system of tubules in the testes where spermatogenesis takes place. The seminiferous tubules of an adult human male can sometimes produce over 100 million sperm per day.