Double Rainbow Symbolism ... Serendipity. A double rainbow means serendipitous magic is on the way, the path of personal magic is opening for you. Be true to yourself and your dreams and know that the Universe is conspiring on your behalf. This is the same color order as the color of Chakras, and the colors on a color wheel. Understanding the meaning of the colors, can be very helpful in knowing the significance of the deeper meaning of Rainbow symbolism, and the message it has for us at the time it appears for us.
It is always a delight to see a rainbow, but the occurrence of a double rainbow is surely a delightful phenomenon. Perplexing as it may sound, Buzzle explains how this beautiful event occurs. Advertisement. After a light shower graces the parched Earth, a spectacular light show appears in the sky. This means that the color red which appears on the outside for a rainbow, will be visible on the inside with the blue color on the outside of the double rainbow. It is caused by the reflection of the sunlight inside the raindrops. These raindrops appear at the angle of 50° to 53°.
The end of the Rainbow signifies a pot of gold and the magic that surrounds your dreams coming true, and the end of the rainbow is the enchanted magical land of leprechauns. Rainbow symbolism has such a powerful meaning to each of us and graciously bestows the energy of blessings. The symbolism of a Rainbow intuitively tells us to hold onto hope, to believe beyond a shadow of a doubt that sacred blessings open to us when we are following our hearts desire. This is the same color order as the color of Chakras, and the colors on a color wheel. Understanding the meaning of the colors, can be very helpful in knowing the significance of the deeper meaning of Rainbow symbolism, and the message it has for us at the time it appears for us.
Best Answer: The double rainbow is nothing more than light being refracted twice instead of once in a rain drop. They always do that but the second refracted ray is often so dim that we can't see it. · just now. Report Abuse. Well, a double rainbow consists of a primary rainbow and a secondary one. Secondary rainbows are caused by a double reflection of sunlight inside the raindrops, and appear at an angle of 50°–53°.
We see rainbows when the sun is behind us and falling rain is in front of us. When sunlight strikes a falling drop of water it is refracted, changed indirection, by the surf … ace of the water. The light continues into the drop and is reflected from the back of the drop to the front. When the beam hits the front it is refracted again and emerges from the drop as the color spectrum that we see in a rainbow. The water drop acts like a prism to separate the light into its different wave lengths.
This double reflection causes the appearance of the secondary rainbow. The colors of the secondary rainbow are lighter than the primary rainbow because the amount of light that escapes the two reflections is more. Also, the secondary rainbow has more surface area in the sky. When you look closely, there is a dark area of the unlit sky present between the primary and secondary rainbow. This means that the color red which appears on the outside for a rainbow, will be visible on the inside with the blue color on the outside of the double rainbow. It is caused by the reflection of the sunlight inside the raindrops. These raindrops appear at the angle of 50° to 53°.
Depending on the colours pattern/order It means a journey either to heaven or from heaven Google it and that what it says on one site. Other than the scientific explanation I like this one The double rainbow is the symbol of transformation. In the first rainbow we see red is at the top and violet at the bottom. This represents the material world. We are a rainbow, but the red belongs at the feet and the first chakra area and the violet at the head. In the upper second rainbow, and remember it is not such a common sight, the colours are the right way up, this symbolizes the journey back to heaven, the ascent of the kundalini, the journey of transformation, the spiritual world.. Source(s): http://www.theawl.com/2010/07/double-rai... Bella · 1 year ago. Thumbs up.
A double rainbw is the result of it raining long enough for the light to become refracted twice. The first rainbow is what you normally see. If it rains long enough you would end up seeing the second due to the light being refracted twice. · just now. Report Abuse. Well, a double rainbow consists of a primary rainbow and a secondary one. Secondary rainbows are caused by a double reflection of sunlight inside the raindrops, and appear at an angle of 50°–53°.