0. Mar 17, '05 by unknown99. A pulse pressure is the difference between the systolic and the diastolic blood pressures. It is normally between 30 to 40 mm/hg, and indicates how well a patient maintains cardiac output.. It is a reflection of stroke volume, ejection velocity, and systemic vascular resistance. 
BACKGROUND Pulse pressure (PP) is defined as the difference between systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP). Physiologically, both pressures increase throughout life due to the increase of stroke volume and/or peripheral vascular resistance (PVR). 
Pulse pressure is the difference between the systolic and diastolic pressure readings. It is measured in millimeters of mercury (mmHg). It represents the force that the heart generates each time it contracts. If resting blood pressure is (systolic/diastolic) 120/80 millimeters of mercury (mmHg), pulse pressure is 40. A pulse pressure is considered abnormally low if it is less than 25% of the systolic value. The most common cause of a low (narrow) pulse pressure is a drop in left ventricular stroke volume. In trauma a low or narrow pulse pressure suggests significant blood loss (insufficient preload leading to reduced cardiac output). If the pulse pressure is extremely low, i.e. 25 mmHg or less, the cause may be low stroke volume, as in Congestive Heart Failure and/or shock. A narrow pulse pressure is also caused by aortic valve stenosis and cardiac tamponade
Pulse pressure refers to the difference between the systolic (top) and diastolic (bottom) blood pressure. If your blood pressure (BP) is 120/80, for instance, your pulse pressure is 120 - 80 = 40 mmHg. 
Pulse pressure 1 Pulse pressure Pulse pressure is the difference between systolic and diastolic blood pressure, or the change in blood pressure seenduring a contraction of the heart. Calculation Formally it is the systolic pressure minus the diastolic pressure. 
It could be a neuro cause like in Cushing's Triad, (bradycardia, widening pulse pressure and irregular respirations). Or it could be a cardiac cause such as cardiac tamponade where you get a narrowing pulse pressure do to the impaired filling ability of the heart. A narrow pulse pressure is also caused by aortic valve stenosis and cardiac tamponade. A pulse pressure is considered abnormally low if it is less than 25% of the systolic value. The most common cause of a low (narrow) pulse pressure is a drop in left ventricular stroke volume. In trauma a low or narrow pulse pressure suggests significant blood loss (insufficient preload leading to reduced cardiac output)
Aortic stenosis is the main culprit of narrowing pulse pressure. This is a form of heart disease due to the contraction of aortic valve which controls blood flow from the left ventricle going to the aorta and other body parts. The difference between systolic and diastolic reading is known as pulse pressure, representing the force exerted by the heart every time it contracts. For instance, if you have 120 systolic blood pressure reading and 80 diastolic blood pressure reading, your pulse pressure is 40.
Pulse Pressure. The pulse pressure is calculated by subtracting the diastolic pressure from the systolic pressure. In other words, it is the change in pressure from the diastolic level to the systolic level. It is determined by two factors, the stroke volume and the compliance of the arterial system. 