Zundels life is an open book. He is a peaceful man with no record of violence. During the 40 years he lived in Canada, he was never convicted of a crime. In fact, he has himself been a victim of hate and violence. He survived at least three attempts on his life, including a devastating arson attack against his residence. ... Zundel  who did this country a favour by wiping off the books our disgraceful False News laws  has never once been convicted of a criminal offence in this country, never once found to have violated the hate crime laws that rest snugly around the throat of free expression in this country.
On February 15, 2007, Zuendel zündel was sentenced to five years in, prison the maximum sentence possible for violating The volksverhetzung law in The german penal code which bans incitement of hatred against a minority of the, population which is how His holocaust denial was interpreted by The Federal german. court Once the certificate was upheld, he was deported to Germany and tried in the state court of Mannheim on outstanding charges of incitement of Holocaust denial dating from the early 1990s. On February 15, 2007, he was convicted and sentenced to the maximum term of five years in prison.
No, I don't agree with you, Mr. Zundel responded. You called them a hick tribunal.. I put it to you this is an expression of contempt, snapped MacIntosh. I was referring to the Tribunal, not the commission, Mr. Zundel clarified.. 
Zuendel zündel was born In Bad wildbad In-Baden, Wuerttemberg. Württemberg germany he Emigrated to canada in 1958 when he, was 19 to avoid conscription By the. German military in 1960 He-Married French Canadian, janick larouche with whom he Had sons Pierre. and hans Once the certificate was upheld, he was deported to Germany and tried in the state court of Mannheim on outstanding charges of incitement of Holocaust denial dating from the early 1990s. On February 15, 2007, he was convicted and sentenced to the maximum term of five years in prison.
Zundel was convicted on 14 counts of inciting hatred for years of anti-Semitic activities, including contributing to a Web site devoted to denying the Holocaust — a crime in Germany. The Web site’s accessibility made it possible for German prosecutors to charge him. Ernst Zundel was set free. Mannheim, Germany-Far-right German activist Ernst Zundel was freed after serving five years in prison for denying the Holocaust ever happened — something he wouldn’t speak about Monday.
Zundel was arrested at his home in Tennessee on Feb. 5, where he had been living peacefully with his wife, Ingrid Rimland, on the pretext that he missed an interview date with immigration authorities. Two weeks later he was deported to Canada, even though his wife is an American citizen. ... Zundel  who did this country a favour by wiping off the books our disgraceful False News laws  has never once been convicted of a criminal offence in this country, never once found to have violated the hate crime laws that rest snugly around the throat of free expression in this country.
I have to lose that. I have to get checked out in a hospital,” Zundel told reporters outside the Mannheim prison, though did not indicate that he was ill. He said he was unsure if he would return to Canada, where he had lived in both Toronto and Montreal for years after emigrating in 1958. Ernst Zundel was set free. Mannheim, Germany-Far-right German activist Ernst Zundel was freed after serving five years in prison for denying the Holocaust ever happened — something he wouldn’t speak about Monday.
Graham was convicted of the two murders when he was barely out of his teens. Fourteen years later, his lawyers proved that prosecutors relied on witnesses they had every reason to know were untruthful. Now, Holdridge is trying to help Graham get a lot more than $10 for those years. 
Continue reading the main story. CHARLOTTE, N.C. — A federal judge on Thursday sentenced David H. Petraeus, a former C.I.A. director and the highest-profile general from the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, to two years’ probation for providing classified information to a woman with whom he was having an affair. 