Naturopathy, or Naturopathic Medicine, is a distinct, integrated system of primary health care offered by licensed physicians. It consists of the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of human disorders by the therapeutic use of natural methods and materials. Homeopathy is a holistic form of treatment that has been integrated into naturopathic medicine. Virtually all homeopathic medicines are produced from natural sources-plants, animals and minerals.
naturopathy. Natural medicine, natural therapeutics, naturopathic medicine, naturopathic therapy, naturology Alternative medicine A healing philosophy that attributes disease to a violation of natural laws, and uses the forces of nature as therapeutic modalities. See Alternative medicine; Home
Naturopaths claim the ancient Greek Father of Medicine, Hippocrates, as the first advocate of naturopathic medicine, before the term existed. Naturopathy has its roots in the 19th century Nature Cure movement of Europe. Naturopaths have been accused of being charlatans and practicing quackery. Much of the ideology and methodological underpinnings of naturopathy are based on a belief in vitalism and self-healing, and so are in conflict with evidence-based medicine.
Naturopathy or naturopathic medicine is a form of alternative medicine employing a wide array of natural modalities, including homeopathy, herbalism, and acupuncture, as well as diet (nutrition) and lifestyle counseling. Naturopaths have been accused of being charlatans and practicing quackery. Much of the ideology and methodological underpinnings of naturopathy are based on a belief in vitalism and self-healing, and so are in conflict with evidence-based medicine.
Naturopathic medicine (or naturopathy) is based on the belief that the body can heal itself. It aims to improve health, prevent disease, and treat illness through the use of organic foods and exercise; a healthy, balanced lifestyle; and the use of treatments from other areas of complementary medicine. People use naturopathic medicine to promote good health, prevent disease, and treat illness. Most naturopaths can treat earaches, allergies, and other common health problems.
Naturopathy, or naturopathic medicine, is a system of medicine based on the healing power of nature. Naturopathy is a holistic system, meaning that naturopathic doctors (N.D.s) or naturopathic medical doctors (N.M.D.s) strive to find the cause of disease by understanding the body, mind, and spirit of the person. The modern form of naturopathy can be traced to 18th and 19th century natural healing systems. Such systems include hydrotherapy (water therapy), which was popular in Germany and nature cure, developed in Austria, based on the use of food, air, light, water, and herbs to treat illness.
Naturopathic medicine is a science-based tradition that promotes wellness by identifying the unique aspects of each patient and then employing non-toxic natural therapies to restore his or her physiological, psychological, and structural balance. Naturopathy. A distinct system of primary health care-an art, science, philosophy, and practice of diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of illness. Naturopathic medicine is distinguished by the principles upon which its practice is based.
Naturopathic medicine is an approach to health care that uses natural, non-toxic therapies to treat the whole person and encourage the self-healing process. Naturopathic clinicians treat a variety of conditions, including digestive issues, respiratory conditions, chronic fatigue syndrome and cancer. 
Naturopathic physicians combine the wisdom of nature with the rigors of modern science. Steeped in traditional healing methods, principles and practices, naturopathic medicine focuses on holistic, proactive prevention and comprehensive diagnosis and treatment. 