The tails of the two species are also different. Mule deer have a black tip on the tail and this is quite noticeable against the white rump patch. White tails, as the name implies, don’t have a black tip on the tail. Rather, the top of the tail down to the very tip is the same color as the back and sides of the animal. In this respect, mule deer antlers are similar to those of elk, though the rack is not as large. A white tailed deer has antlers that have a beam, or main antler, that runs the full length of each side of the rack.
Mule Deer and Whitetail Deer are closely related cousins sharing the same generic name. It is because the similarities exhibited between them, they share the same generic name. · Geographical distribution is wider for whitetails compared to mule deer, which is because whitetails have a tremendous genetic variation among them. · Mule deer is larger compared to whitetail deer in body size. · Mule deer has mule-like large ears but those are small in whitetail deer. · Whitetails have white coloured fur under their tails, whereas mule deer have white tails with a black tip. · The antlers of mule deer are bifurcated rather than branching from a single main beam
Antlers. Buck, or male, white-tailed deer and mule deer have antlers. White-tailed bucks' antlers consist of a main beam with tines growing out from that beam. Mule deer bucks' antlers fork from the beam and then fork again. The result gives a very different look. Reproduction. White-tailed deer and mule deer have slightly different reproduction and mating cycles. Mule deer mate from mid-to late November; white-tailed deer breed from late November to early December. Gestation for mule deer is seven months, for white-tailed deer 6 1/2 months.
Whitetail Deer. Odocoileus virginianus, Whitetail, White-tailed deer, or Virginia deer are different names for the same animal described here. It is a medium sized deer native to Americas. An adult male has about 60 to 130 kilograms of weight and they are about 80 to 100 centimetres tall at the withers. · Geographical distribution is wider for whitetails compared to mule deer, which is because whitetails have a tremendous genetic variation among them. · Mule deer is larger compared to whitetail deer in body size. · Mule deer has mule-like large ears but those are small in whitetail deer. · Whitetails have white coloured fur under their tails, whereas mule deer have white tails with a black tip. · The antlers of mule deer are bifurcated rather than branching from a single main beam
Please try again later. This video shows the difference in tails between a mule deer (left), and a White tail (right). When the tails are down, the Muley's tail is black at the top and the bottom, with white in the center. The White tail's tail will be tan, outlined in white. 
The difference between mule deer and white tale deer is that mule deer are slightly larger than white tales and live in colder areas. The white tale deer's tale is white on th … e end and the mule deer's is black. Mule deer have more of a brown gray color and the white tale is more red. 1 person found this useful. 
Mule deer have a white rump patch around tail, which is thinner than the broad tail of the whitetail, and has a black tip. The mule deer stand three to three and a half feet tall at the shoulder, with bucks weighing 125-250 lbs. and does weighing in between 100 and 150 pounds. 
The most noticeable differences between white-tailed and mule deer are the size of their ears, the color of their tails, and the configuration of their antlers. In many cases, body size is also a key difference. The mule deer's tail is black-tipped, whereas the whitetail's is not. Mule deer antlers are bifurcated; they fork as they grow, rather than branching from a single main beam, as is the case with whitetails. Each spring, a buck's antlers start to regrow almost immediately after the old antlers are shed.