1. Aquarius - (astrology) a person who is born while the sun is in Aquarius. Water Bearer. individual, mortal, person, somebody, someone, soul-a human being; there was too much for one person to do. astrology, star divination-a pseudoscience claiming divination by the positions of the planets and sun and moon. 
Aquarians are the original organization men of the zodiac. Their societal orientation, loyalty, fairness, and objective nature are reasons why they tend to attract many friends and acquaintances in life. 
Stop the Defunding of the Aquarius Project, the worlds LAST under water lab | We the People: Your VoOn July 20th National Public Radio reported a story about the underwater Oceanic lab known as Aquarius.Sylvia Earle, the main scientist for Aquarius gave an interview from this amazing lab 60 feet under the ocean. Stop the Defunding of the Aquarius Project, the worlds LAST under water lab | We the People: Your Vo. 
Aquarius is identified as GU.LA The Great One in the Babylonian star catalogues and represents the god Ea himself, who is commonly depicted holding an overflowing vase. The Babylonian star-figure appears on entitlement stones and cylinder seals from the second millennium. Aquarius is also associated with the Age of Aquarius, a concept popular in 1960s counterculture. Despite this prominence, the Age of Aquarius will not dawn until the year 2597, as an astrological age does not begin until the Sun is in a particular constellation on the vernal equinox.
Aquarius is a constellation of the zodiac, situated between Capricornus and Pisces. Its name is Latin for water-carrier or cup-carrier, and its symbol is (Unicode ♒), a representation of water. Aquarius is one of the oldest of the recognized constellations along the zodiac (the sun 's apparent path). Aquarius is also associated with the Age of Aquarius, a concept popular in 1960s counterculture. Despite this prominence, the Age of Aquarius will not dawn until the year 2597, as an astrological age does not begin until the Sun is in a particular constellation on the vernal equinox.
To discuss Aquarius compatibility we need to look at Aquarius in combination with each of the other sun signs. Each match has different strong and weak areas and it's own quirks and unique features. Summary of Aquarius compatibility. The most compatible signs with Aquarius are generally considered to be Aries, Gemini, Libra and Sagittarius. The least compatible signs with Aquarius are generally considered to be Taurus and Scorpio. Comparing sun signs can give a good general idea of
Aquarius and Aquarius. When two Aquarians join together in a love match, they focus on the more positive aspects of humanity. This pair is loves to make friends, help others and, on a grander scale, contemplate social change. They tend to be active and outgoing and work best under pressure. Always reaching out with their idealistic visions, the Aquarian intellect can be so extreme and eccentric that Aquarius is known as the Einstein of the Zodiac. They can be too intense for the rest of the world, and they are often misinterpreted simply as brains.
About Aquarius. At Aquarius we strive to help people overcome the harms caused by alcohol, drugs and gambling. We work closely with individuals, families and friends to lessen the impact caused by the behaviour of a loved one. 
The Organization of the Zodiac, or OZ, is the military wing of the Romefeller Foundation, which came to the forefront in the waning years of the United Earth Sphere Alliance. OZ operated as a division of the Alliance Military. OZ served as a form of Special Forces or black ops group within the Alliance Military. 1 A zodiac is a coordinate system used in astronomy and astrology. 2  Oz is a common abbreviation for a measurement known as an ounce. 3  OZ is part of an trend of antagonist factions in Gundam anime having a name with the letter Z. 4  The OZ flag and OZ Space Force symbol resemble a lion and witch.