Kelp is one of those types. Among the largest types of seaweed, what makes them unique is their tendency to grow in large, thick kelp forests that can be home to hundreds of different species of marine life.
Each type of seaweed is rich in its own unique set of nutrients: 1  Nori seaweed has the highest amount of protein compared to the other types. 2  Wakame has the highest amount of calcium. 3  Sea Lettuce is very high in iron. 4  Hijiki is high in calcium and fiber. 5  Dulse is very high in vitamins B6 and B12.
Types of Seaweed. The simplest of the seaweeds are among the cyanobacteria, formerly called the blue-green algae, and green algae (division Chlorophyta), found nearest the shore in shallow waters and usually growing as threadlike filaments, irregular sheets, or branching fronds.
Among the different seaweed types, however, red and green algae are said to be more yin, as the leaves are softer and more open. Brown algae are harder and considered more yang. This understanding offers a useful guideline on how much of the different seaweed types we can eat.
Seaweed is broken down into three different types—red, green, and brown; their different colors reflect the different type of light they will readily absorb for photosynthesis, which in turns dictates how deep or how close to the surface they generally grow.
Each type of seaweed has different nutritional properties that are notable: Hijiki is a type of brown algae typically found in the Far East. This type of sea vegetable contains the most calcium of all types and can be very tough to consume in its natural state.
Seaweed descriptions and pictures. Here is a selection of 200 or so of the larger seaweeds from the north-eastern Atlanic, many of which occur in Norway, Britain, Ireland, Atlantic France and Spain, and in Portugal. Web pages have so far been completed for those with links (underlined).
Seaweed is a nutritious food that can be used in the preparation of many different dishes. The Japanese, for example, consume seven different types of seaweed that they refer to by very specific names. Types of Seaweed. Nori is a popular type of seaweed.