Autumn 2009 33Dolomite is a complex mineral. It can precipitate directly from solutions containing magnesium, calcium and carbonate ions to form cement or unlithified sediment. However, most dolomite forms through the chemical alteration of precur-sor carbonate rock or sediment—primarily lime-stone or calcareous muds.
This can be noted by the fact that Dolomite generally forms more elongated crystals than the Calcite Group. In addition, Dolomite never occurs in scalenohedral crystakss, whereas minerals of the Calcite Group do. Dolomite is both a mineral and a rock. The mineral is the pure form, and Dolomite rock is composed mostly of Dolomite but also with impurities such as Calcite, Quartz, and Feldspar.
Dolostone is the name for a rock that is primarily composed of the mineral dolomite. Distinguishing between rock and mineral terms is important though, as a dolostone rock may contain other minerals in addition to its dolomite.
Dolomite rock is formed from limestone (which is mostly calcite, i.e., calcium carbonate [CaCO 3 ]) by the replacement of about half of the limestone's calcium ions by magnesium ions. Because of its close relationship to limestone, dolomite is sometimes categorized as a type of limestone.
JerUSAlem Stone is a dolomite which falls in the calcareous stone catagory. Dolomite stone (or Dolostone) are those which contain more than 50% carbonate minerals of which over half are dolomite minerals (calcium-magnesium carbonate). Dolomite is considered carbonate rock.
- Although calcite is usually the most abundant mineral, other common minerals include aragonite, dolomite and magnesite (magnesium carbonate). Impurities, which tend to inhibit or slow down karstification, include chert, flint, authigenic (formed in place) quartz and feldspar, and clay minerals.
By volume, however, most dolomite occurs in its massive form as dolostone or mixed dolostone/limestone sedimentary rocks. These dolostone rocks originally formed as limestone marine deposits on ancient shallow seafloors that were later altered to dolostone as magnesium-rich waters moved through them.