One of the most popular wagons used by the pioneers was the Conestoga Wagon. This sturdy wagon was invented by Pennsylvania Dutch immigrants in the Conestoga Valley. Conestoga Wagons moved freight and people westward over the Allegheny Mountains and to the far West from the 1770s through the mid 1800s. The ends of the wagon were built higher than the middle and a high, rounded, white canvas roof would cover the wagon making it a Covered Wagon. Teams of four to six horses powered the wagon. Other wagons used by American pioneers were similar to the Conestoga Wagon but smaller and sleeker.
They are often referred to simply as covered wagons, and this is the term used by the International Union of Railways (UIC). Since the introduction of the international classification for goods wagons by the UIC in the 1960s a distinction has been drawn between ordinary and special covered wagons. Whilst ordinary open or covered goods wagons were used for the transportation of cattle and other large animals, special livestock wagons were being developed for small livestock as early as the 19th century.
Covered & Chuck Wagons. Our custom and used chuck wagons and covered wagons are distinctively western icons. We incorporate all the original elements into our custom chuck wagons and covered wagons to preserve the colorful history of the pioneers and the western cowboy lore of the cattle drive era.
A covered wagon replica at the High Desert Museum in Bend, Oregon. The Covered wagon was long the dominant form of transport in pre-industrial America. With roots in the heavy Conestoga wagon developed for the rough, undeveloped roads and paths of the colonial East, the covered wagon spread west with American migrati
The Covered Wagon. c ompiled by Stephenie Flora copyright 2007. T he covered wagon used to cross the plains to the west was a smaller, lighter version of the big Conestoga wagon used in the east. The cloth top that protected people and possessions from extreme weather conditions also was the prime reason that the wagon was sometimes referred to as the prairie schooner. A toolbox is on the wagon's one side, the brake lever and water bucket on the other. Hanging from the rear axle was the grease bucket, filled with a mixture of animal fat and tar. It was used to keep the hubs of the wheels greased.
Since then however the open wagon and flat wagon have become more common. By contrast the covered goods wagon still forms the majority of two-axled wagons in countries like Germany, because the comparatively light freight does not routinely require the use of bogie wagons. Whilst ordinary open or covered goods wagons were used for the transportation of cattle and other large animals, special livestock wagons were being developed for small livestock as early as the 19th century.
Though the term Conestoga wagon is sometimes mistakenly used as a synonym for covered wagon, the name in fact only refers to the specific type of heavy, broad-wheeled covered wagon first manufactured in the Conestoga River region of Pennsylvania's Lancaster County in the mid-18th century. Role of the Conestoga Wagon in American History. The peak years of use for the Conestoga wagons were from 1820 to 1840. They were used most extensively in Pennsylvania and the nearby states of Maryland, Ohio and Virginia.
COVERED WAGON, the means of transcontinental transportation used for two centuries of American history. The covered wagon was fundamentally a wagon box with a framework of hoop-shaped slats over which a canvas tent was stretched to make a covered wagon. Each wagon was drawn by several teams of horses, mules, or oxen. Although derived from the Conestoga wagons built in Lancaster, Pa., in the early eighteenth century, the covered wagon used by emigrants on the Oregon and California trails differed in size, design, and purpose.
Confidence votes 9.9K. Covered wagons were used by pioneers in the 1800s moving west to settle new land. A covered wagon provided a place for people to sleep on the road as well as a way to carry a lot of possessions to the new homestead. 
The Wagon The most familiar covered wagon crossing the plains and mountains to the promised land of the west was a smaller, lighter cousin on the Conestoga wagon of the east. This prairie schooner was superbly designed for its job of transporting pioneer families and their goods on the five month long, 2000 mile journey west. 