1. Get help from a doctor now ›. Healing after CS: Healing after cataract surgery is usually very quick: depending on pre-operative risk factors (diabetes, h/o trauma, flomax use, general health), intra-operative issues (any vitreous loss), and post-operative issues: any wound leaking, infection, etc. 4. Get help from a doctor now ›. 20-35 minutes: Most cataract surgery in the absence of complications or pre-existing problems like trauma or congenital problems-most will take 20-35 minutes.
Eye surgery is like surgery on any other body part, there will be a period of recovery. Fortunately for cataract surgery, this time is minimal. Your vision will be blurry right after surgery. No two patients are the same, but most patients notice an improvement in their vision the day after surgery.
Report Abuse. honestly you should talk to the dr that preformed the surgery. your eye takes about 2-3 weeks to fully heal after cataract surgery so obviously there's something going on that you have blurred vision and droopy eyes at this stage in the game. you may need glasses to further correct your vision. Source(s): i'm 24 and i had cataract surgery in may 2009. 
Get help from a doctor now ›. Cataract surgery: After cataract surgery patients recover very quickly, with good vision in one to 7 days and eye drops for about a month. You can return to normal activities the day after surgery. Restrictions are minimal, just avoiding rubbing and no swimming for a few weeks. 4. Get help from a doctor now ›. 20-35 minutes: Most cataract surgery in the absence of complications or pre-existing problems like trauma or congenital problems-most will take 20-35 minutes.
After cataract surgery, you can expect some mild discomfort and itching for a couple of days. Your vision will be blurry at first, then will begin to clear up over the next few days. Cataract surgery is a relatively simple and straightforward procedure. In most cases, only local anesthesia is necessary, and patients can go home the same day. In fact, the procedure itself only takes about 30 minutes.
Uncomplicated cataract surgery often takes no longer than about 10 minutes to perform. But immediately after the surgery, you will need to rest in a recovery area until you are less groggy from sedation or anesthesia. Typically this takes about 30 minutes to an hour. For the best cataract surgery recovery possible, follow your doctor's detailed instructions about how to protect your eye following your procedure. Usually these instructions will be given to you as a handout that you can take home with you on surgery day.
2 weeks: Assuming uncomplicated surgery, most surgeons would advise that you avoid submerging your head in water for about 2 weeks after the surgery. The full healing time can be around 6-8 weeks but 90% of it occurs within the first 7-10 days. 4. Get help from a doctor now ›. 20-35 minutes: Most cataract surgery in the absence of complications or pre-existing problems like trauma or congenital problems-most will take 20-35 minutes.
It takes some time for your eye to heal completely, and it is not unusual to experience fluctuations in your vision for several days or even a few weeks after surgery. During your follow-up visits, your eye doctor will advise you about how your eye is healing and when your vision has stabilized. 
Recovery from cataract surgery will vary depending on the individual, but the good news is there have been some major improvements in this field. Cataract surgery is a relatively simple and straightforward procedure. In most cases, only local anesthesia is necessary, and patients can go home the same day. In fact, the procedure itself only takes about 30 minutes.
Yes, your prescription will change following cataract surgery. In most cases, you will still require at least a reading prescription to do near work. If you still require a distance prescription after surgery, it will be a few weeks until the eye is stable enough to obtain this prescription. Fortunately for cataract surgery, this time is minimal. Your vision will be blurry right after surgery. No two patients are the same, but most patients notice an improvement in their vision the day