Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: pyrrhic (Noun). An Ancient Greek war dance. pyrrhic (Noun). A metric foot with two short or unaccented syllables. pyrrhic (Adjective). Of or characterized by pyrrhics. 
Definition of PYRRHIC. : a metrical foot consisting of two short or unaccented syllables. ADVERTISEMENT. 
pyrrhic. a metrical foot composed of two short or unaccented syllables. — pyrrhic, adj. pyrrhic-of or relating to or containing a metrical foot of two unstressed syllables; pyrrhic verses. 3. pyrrhic-of or relating to or resembling Pyrrhus or his exploits (especially his sustaining staggering losses in order to defeat the Romans); a Pyrrhic victory. Translations.
pyrrhic. n. 1. (Poetry) a metrical foot of two short or unstressed syllables. adj. 2. (Poetry) of or relating to such a metrical foot. pyrrhic-of or relating to or containing a metrical foot of two unstressed syllables; pyrrhic verses. 3. pyrrhic-of or relating to or resembling Pyrrhus or his exploits (especially his sustaining staggering losses in order to defeat the Romans); a Pyrrhic victory. Translations.
pyrrhic-of or relating to a war dance of ancient Greece; pyrrhic dance movements. 2. pyrrhic-of or relating to or containing a metrical foot of two unstressed syllables; pyrrhic verses. 3. pyrrhic-of or relating to or resembling Pyrrhus or his exploits (especially his sustaining staggering losses in order to defeat the Romans); a Pyrrhic victory. Translations.
BREAKING DOWN 'Pyrrhic Victory'. In 2001, Microsoft won a Pyrrhic victory in its antitrust case when the Appeals Court decided the software giant was not to be broken up. However, Microsoft was still branded a monopoly and was subject to other punishment. DEFINITION of 'Pyrrhic Victory'. A victory or success that comes at the expense of great losses or costs. In business, examples of such a victory could be succeeding at a hostile takeover bid or winning a lengthy and expensive lawsuit. Next Up.
Noun. 1. pyrrhic-a metrical unit with unstressed-unstressed syllables. dibrach. metrical foot, metrical unit, foot - (prosody) a group of 2 or 3 syllables forming the basic unit of poetic rhythm. pyrrhic-of or relating to or containing a metrical foot of two unstressed syllables; pyrrhic verses. 3. pyrrhic-of or relating to or resembling Pyrrhus or his exploits (especially his sustaining staggering losses in order to defeat the Romans); a Pyrrhic victory. Translations.
Noun. 1. Pyrrhic victory-a victory that is won by incurring terrible losses. triumph, victory-a successful ending of a struggle or contest; a narrow victory; the general always gets credit for his army's victory; clinched a victory; convincing victory; the agreement was a triumph for common sense. 1  Facebook. is one with such a devastating cost that it is tantamount to defeat. Israel's Pyrrhic victory at ICC by Cihan News Agency (CNA). El Sisi's. Mubarak is gone and now there is Sisi, whose campaign 'was highly supported by Mubarak's men and former members of the National Democratic Party'.