A reindeer is a mammal, in that the female feeds its young through mammary glands. The Giant Panda and the Red Panda both are mammals. Almost all mammals have fur or hair, and give birth to living young, although there are a few species that do lay eggs, it … isn't the norm. Also mammals are warm blooded animals too. Frogs, toads, salamanders, and newts are all amphibians, or cold-blooded creatures that live in water and on land, and lay egg
Answer by Another Canadian. Confidence votes 5.9K. A reindeer is a mammal, in that the female feeds its young through mammary glands. Amphibians are animals such as frogs and salamanders whose larvae are born in the water and breath through gills which they lose in adulthood, to then breath through lungs. The Giant Panda and the Red Panda both are mammals. Almost all mammals have fur or hair, and give birth to living young, although there are a few species that do lay eggs, it … isn't the norm. Also mammals are warm blooded animals too. Frogs, toads, salamanders, and newts are all amphibians, or cold-blooded creatures that live in water and on land, and lay eg
A mammal is an endothermic vertebrate with a four-chambered heart,  and at least some hair, fur or bristles. A Mammal is normally  defined as a warm-blooded animal with a co … vering of skin and hair  which gives birth to live young who are nourished with milk  produced by the mother's mammary glands. no, Every Warm-Blooded Person (or animal) is not a mammal a  elephant is not a mammal btw  .++++  Sorry but that is totally wrong. All mammals  including humans and elepha … nts are warm-blooded,  part of the definition of a mammal. The other primary  characteristics of mammals are live birth and suckling.  .
Other mammals walk using legs such as cats, dogs, horses, apes and of course, people. Other mammals, particularly marine mammals, move through the use of flippers. These animals include sea otters, dolphins, seals, walruses and whales. no, Every Warm-Blooded Person (or animal) is not a mammal a  elephant is not a mammal btw  .++++  Sorry but that is totally wrong. All mammals  including humans and elepha … nts are warm-blooded,  part of the definition of a mammal. The other primary  characteristics of mammals are live birth and suckling.  .
The reindeer (Rangifer tarandus), also known as caribou in North America, is a species of deer with circumpolar distribution, native to Arctic, Subarctic, tundra, boreal and mountainous regions of northern Europe, Siberia, and North America. This includes both sedentary and migratory populations. In the Santa Claus tale, Santa Claus' sleigh is pulled by flying reindeer. These were first named in the 1823 poem  A Visit from St. Nicholas , where they are called Dasher, Dancer, Prancer, Vixen, Comet, Cupid, Dunder, and Blixem.
The reindeer travels the furthest of any land mammal with these migrations often containing thousands of reindeer. The caribou of North America can run at speeds up to 50 mph and can travel as many as 3,000 miles a year.The most extensive migrations occur in spring and fall. The reindeer (also known as the caribou) is found in large herds in the very north of the world. Reindeer inhabit both the Arctic Tundra and the North Pole regions which include parts of North America, Europe and Asia.
A reindeer is a mammal, in that the female feeds its young through mammary glands. Amphibians are animals such as frogs and salamanders whose larvae are born in the water and … breath through gills which they lose in adulthood, to then breath through lungs. 1 person found this useful. no, Every Warm-Blooded Person (or animal) is not a mammal a  elephant is not a mammal btw  .++++  Sorry but that is totally wrong. All mammals  including humans and elepha … nts are warm-blooded,  part of the definition of a mammal. The other primary  characteristics of mammals are live birth and suckling.  .
Fact #1. Reindeer and caribou are relatives of elk and other deer in the mammal group of even-toed hoofed animals called Artiodactyla by geeky scientists like me. Uniquely among the more than 45 species of deer, reindeer (caribou) of both sexes grow large antlers! Reindeer are a mostly-domesticated race of caribou. Fact #2. A circumpolar species, reindeer and caribou are found around the world’s north. Greenland, Norway, Russia, Alaska, Canada, and the North Pole are all within the circumpolar Arctic range of these northern deer.