1 A typical residential lot survey might cost $300-$1,000 depending on local rates and the size and type of parcel; placing permanent stone or metal boundary markers may be optional at $100-$300 each. 1 For example, Texas Land Title Surveyors estimates a residential land title survey including staking property corners at $350, and a topographic survey for beach front construction at $450.
Several factors shape the final bill of a land survey. The cost of hiring a professional surveyor is not so straightforward as paying for routine repair work or even a home inspection. The price varies widely not only by locality and surveyor but also by dozens of project-specific details. Nationally, the average cost to purchase a land survey is about $760 with a range between about $630 and nearly $900. However, these figures may be adjusted by location. Among the most fundamental of cost factors is the project scope; a 1-acre lot will cost less to survey than 2,000 acres. 
1 Total costs depend on the type and complexity of survey. 2  A developer building new houses might have surveys done of the entire development then sell a copy of a specific parcel survey to the buyer of that lot for $300-$500. 1 For example, Texas Land Title Surveyors estimates a residential land title survey including staking property corners at $350, and a topographic survey for beach front construction at $450.
NEXT STEP. Find out how much your project will cost. Provide a few details about your project and receive competitive quotes from local pros. On average, hiring a land surveyor costs $477 nationally, with most homeowners spending between $334 and $651. This data is based on actual project costs as reported by HomeAdvisor members. One of the primary roles of the land surveyor is to find the boundaries of a property. 
Land Surveyor Costs. The costs to survey an average residential home is $300 to $800. The cost will depend on the layout and accessibility. It will also be based on how complex the job is and how detailed the reports need to be. Furthermore, price will always vary from company to company.
How much does land surveying cost? The cost of preparing a survey will vary depending upon the size of the property and the number of buildings on the property. If you are interested in finding out how much it will cost you to survey your property, we suggest you get a quote from one of our professionals. 
There are many factors that determine the cost of a land survey. The land s location and the type of survey are important factors when estimating the costs of a survey. There are many steps involved that you may not be aware of, but they are all are a necessary part of the process. In general, for any survey conducted by a Manitoba Land Surveyor the surveyor must: 
1 GJB Engineering in Virginia charges $50 an hour for administrative work, $85 an hour for a surveying draftsman, $100 an hour for a technician, $150 an hour for a professional surveyor and $140 an hour for a two-person surveying crew. 2  Total costs depend on the type and complexity of survey. 1 For example, Texas Land Title Surveyors estimates a residential land title survey including staking property corners at $350, and a topographic survey for beach front construction at $450.
Our average residential survey is $450, well worth the price for the protection it provides to the buyer. If a buyer obtains a survey of the property and owner’s title insurance on that property, the title company will insure you for any surveying issues that may arise. 
1 For example, Homestead Land Surveying in California charges $55 an hour for the services of a junior survey technician, $95 an hour for a senior technician, $135 an hour for the principal land surveyor, $150 an hour for a two-person field crew and $220 an hour for a three-person field crew. 1 For example, Texas Land Title Surveyors estimates a residential land title survey including staking property corners at $350, and a topographic survey for beach front construction at $450.