It's common to find an EVA midsole in sneakers which come under a great deal of stress. Basketball is one such sport, which requires extra cushioning and impact resistance for it's footwear. The above Nike Dunk High is one such sneaker which features a EVA midsole. Running and skateboarding footwear are two other sports which often require a EVA midsole to provide a comfortable shoe. EVA stands for Ethylene-vinyl acetate, which is a polymer that has excellent stress and impact resistance properties. The midsole of a shoe can be a misleading term: it does not refer to a position in the middle of the shoe, but is the material between the outsole and upper
A medial post is a device within the midsole that is firmer than the remainder of the midsole. Medial posts are usually made of EVA which is denser than the rest of the midsole. This is known as a dual density midsole. Medial posts may also made be made of thermoplastic urathane, carbon fiber or other materials. Upper – The fabric or leather part of the shoe that secures it to the foot. The upper is either sewn or glued to the midsole. Midsole-The midsole is sandwiched between the upper and the outsole. Most running shoe midsoles are comprised of a closed cell foam called ethyl vinyl acetate (EVA). A few shoes use polyurethane for the midsole. The cushioning and stability devices are embedded within or attached to the midsole
Disclosed is an injection molded Phylon (foam ethylene vinyl acetate) midsole having distinguished advantages, such as increased productivity, improved quality, decreased manufacturing cost, reduced fraction defective, reduced weight or the like, in relation to a conventional injection molded Phylon... The injection molded Phylon midsole as claimed in. , wherein the holes (11 a) are formed in various shapes such as a circular, an oval or a polygon, and the holes (11 a) have a diameter of 5 mm to 10 mm. 8.
Here I will be breaking down Midsole Materials. EVA AKA Ethylene Vinyl Acetate. EVA is the least expensive midsole material & is commonly found in entry level shoes (Think Nike Benassi Swoosh Slides, those are EVA). The reason it's so inexpensive to make is because the Midsole is cut & shaped directly from flat sheets of EVA Foam. I am assuming they mean Lunar Foam in the Full Length setup is a Midsole Material. Lunar Foam is very difficult to explain in a paragraph but I will try my best. Lunar foam is a Hybrid of EVA & Nitril Rubber in a Nike Patented mix & process. It is 30% lighter then regular compression molded EVA & Phylon.
Disclosed is an injection molded Phylon (foam ethylene vinyl acetate) midsole having distinguished advantages, such as increased productivity, improved quality, decreased manufacturing cost, reduced fraction defective, reduced weight or the like, in relation to a conventional injection molded Phylon midsole. The injection molded Phylon midsole as claimed in. , wherein the holes (11 a) are formed in various shapes such as a circular, an oval or a polygon, and the holes (11 a) have a diameter of 5 mm to 10 mm. 8.
Most running shoes use these two foam like materials in some form of the midsole. Each material has its own positive and negative attributes. EVA is the darling of running shoes. - It is light, it is flexible-and it has a great disposition as a cushioning material. If it were human, you would invite it to your next after race party. But like any good thing, it just doesn’t last forever.
So Phylon happens to be the GO TO Midsole material when it comes to the options Nike has in it's stable. Reason being is it's lightweight, low profile & responsive. Phylon is made of EVA Foam Pellets that are compressed then heat expanded & then finally cooled into a mold. I am assuming they mean Lunar Foam in the Full Length setup is a Midsole Material. Lunar Foam is very difficult to explain in a paragraph but I will try my best. Lunar foam is a Hybrid of EVA & Nitril Rubber in a Nike Patented mix & process. It is 30% lighter then regular compression molded EVA & Phylon.