Confidence votes 98. Costa Rica is in Central America, a part of North America. It does, however, border Panama, so it is closer to mainland South America than to Mexico and mainland North America. North America. It is North America all the way to the Panama/Columbia border. There is no continent of Central America - that is just an area designation for the region betw … een Mexico and Sou
Well, Costa Rica is not in Mexico. As for what continent it is on is not a simple answer. The Latin American believe in a 6 continent model of the world which North and South America is combined to form one America continent. Central America is not a continent, it is a thin strip of land joining North and South America. If you ask someone from the U.S. or Canada, they will tell you that Costa Rica is a part of North America, since they consider everything from Panama to Canada to be Nor
Located in the continent of Central America, Costa Rica covers 51,060 square kilometers of land and 40 square kilometers of water, making it the 131st largest nation in the world with a total area of 51,100 square kilometers. Costa Rica became an independent state in 1838, after gaining its sovereignty from Spain. 
Nicaragua and Costa Rica are both part of Central America, a subcontinent, which in itself is the southernmost portion of the North American continent. North America. It is North America all the way to the Panama/Columbia border. There is no continent of Central America - that is just an area designation for the region betw … een Mexico and Sou
Therefore, Costa Rica is located on the continent of North America (if you live in the U.S.) or the continent of America (if you live in Latin America). This depends on where you live. Here in Nicaragua we are taught that there are only 6 continents: America, Australia, Asia, Europe, Antarctica and Africa. The land mass known as North America contains all of Costa Rica (and part of Panama). Yes, it is in Central America, but North America includes EVERYTHING on the CONTINENTAL SHELF. The Continental Shelf is how various continents are decided...
Mexico is a country, not a continent. Costa Rica is not located in Mexico, it is another country and is located in Central America. Central America is not a continent, it is a thin strip of land joining North and South America. If you ask someone from the U.S. or Canada, they will tell you that Costa Rica is a part of North America, since they consider everything from Panama to Canada to be North America.
Costa Rica is part of the North American continent. Remember a continent is a geological term and not a political, cultural, nor lingual term. You don't end up in South America when you cross the border from San Diego to Tijuana or any other border crossings between the U.S. and Mexico. Central America is not a continent, it is a thin strip of land joining North and South America. If you ask someone from the U.S. or Canada, they will tell you that Costa Rica is a part of North America, since they consider everything from Panama to Canada to be Nor
Nicaragua and Costa Rica are both part of Central America, a subcontinent, which in itself is the southernmost portion of the North American continent. Costa Rica is in Central America, a part of North America. It does, however, border Panama, so it is closer to mainland South America than to Mexico and mainland North Americ … a.
Report Abuse. Adyari is correct and the other answerers are not. Central America is not its own continent, but is considered part of North America geographically. Costa Rica, while being in Central America, is technically part of North America. The North American continent ends at either the Panama/Colombia border or the Panama Canal, depending on the convention you accept. The land mass known as North America contains all of Costa Rica (and part of Panama). Yes, it is in Central America, but North America includes EVERYTHING on the CONTINENTAL SHELF. The Continental Shelf is how various continents are decided...
Costa Rica is not a continent.It is a country in central America,belonging to North America. Costa Rica is located in Central America. North America. It is North America all the way to the Panama/Columbia border. There is no continent of Central America - that is just an area designation for the region betw … een Mexico and Sou