Beta adrenoreceptor agonist ligands mimic the action of epinephrine and norepinephrine signaling in the heart, lungs and smooth muscle tissue, with epinephrine being the highest affinity. Most agonists of the beta receptors are selective for one or more beta-adrenoreceptors. For example, patients with low heart rate are given beta agonist treatments that are more cardio-selective such as dobutamine, which increases the force of contraction of the heart muscle.
The beta-2 adrenergic agonists are a large group of drugs that mimic the actions of naturally occurring catecholamines such as norepinephrine, epinephrine and dopamine. The beta-2 adrenergic agonists are used largely as bronchodilators in the management of asthma, both in control of acute symptomatic attacks as well as chronic, long term prevention and management.
General Pharmacology. Beta-adrenoceptor agonists (β-agonists) bind to β-receptors on cardiac and smooth muscle tissues. They also have important actions in other tissues, especially bronchial smooth muscle (relaxation), the liver (stimulate glycogenolysis) and kidneys (stimulate renin release). Beta-adrenoceptors normally bind to norepinephrine released by sympathetic adrenergic nerves, and to circulating epinephrine.
Beta-Adrenoceptor Agonists (β-agonists). Beta-adrenoceptor agonists (β-agonists) bind to β-receptors on cardiac and smooth muscle tissues. They also have important actions in other tissues, especially bronchial smooth muscle (relaxation), the liver (stimulate glycogenolysis) and kidneys (stimulate renin release). Beta-adrenoceptors normally bind to norepinephrine released by sympathetic adrenergic nerves, and to circulating epinephrine.
The beta adrenergic agonists act on bronchial smooth muscle inducing bronchodilation and relieving bronchospasm in asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease with asthmatic features. The beta-2 adrenergic agonists are used largely as bronchodilators in the management of asthma, both in control of acute symptomatic attacks as well as chronic, long term prevention and management.
Beta-adrenergic agonists or Beta-agonists are medications that relax muscles of the airways, which widens the airways and results in easier breathing. They are a class of sympathomimetic agents which act upon the beta adrenoceptors. In general, pure beta-adrenergic agonists have the opposite function of beta blockers. Most agonists of the beta receptors are selective for one or more beta-adrenoreceptors. For example, patients with low heart rate are given beta agonist treatments that are more cardio-selective such as dobutamine, which increases the force of contraction of the heart muscle.
Uterine contraction. Drugs that bind to Beta 2 receptors (Beta 2 agonists) are used in the treatment of premature labour, this clinical application illustrates how Beta 2 receptors mediate tocolysis on the uterine muscle. Ritodrine is an example of a tocolytic drug. By Flavio Guzman, Guzmán.M. D beta receptors are a subtype of adrenergic (receptor), adrenoceptor their activation triggers a (sympathomimetic) adrenergic. Response this article overviews the characteristics related to their physiology and pharmacological. Aspects in, addition a related article discusses alpha. receptors
Like other beta-adrenergic agonists, they cause smooth muscle relaxation. Beta2-adrenergic agonists' effects on smooth muscle cause dilation of bronchial passages, vasodilation in muscle and liver, relaxation of uterine muscle, and release of insulin. They are primarily used to treat asthma and other pulmonary disorders. Activation of beta-adrenergic receptors leads to relaxation of smooth muscle in the lung, and dilation and opening of the airways. Beta-adrenergic receptors are coupled to a stimulatory G protein of adenylyl cyclase. This enzyme produces the second messenger cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP).