The Emancipation Proclamation: Issued during the American Civil War in late 1862, the Emancipation Proclamation consisted of a pair of executive orders issued by President Abraham Lincoln which declared free any slaves held in the confederate states which did not return to the Union by January 1, 1863. But what Lincoln and his Emancipation Proclamation bravely did was to commit the United States to permanently ending slavery. It wasn't perfect, but it was a start. Yet it would take more than a century before the Voting Rights Act of 1965 was passed, essentially completing what the Emancipation Proclamation began.
On September 22, 1862, Lincoln had issued a preliminary proclamation warning that he would order the emancipation of all slaves in any state that did not end its rebellion against the Union by January 1, 1863. Union-occupied areas of the Confederate states where the proclamation was put into immediate effect by local commanders included Winchester, Virginia, Corinth, Mississippi, the Sea Islands along the coasts of the Carolinas and Georgia, Key West, Florida, and Port Royal, South Carolina.
Against the background of the American Civil War, however, Lincoln issued the Proclamation under his authority as  Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy under Article II, section 2 of the United States Constitution. Union-occupied areas of the Confederate states where the proclamation was put into immediate effect by local commanders included Winchester, Virginia, Corinth, Mississippi, the Sea Islands along the coasts of the Carolinas and Georgia, Key West, Florida, and Port Royal, South Carolina.
The Proclamation was issued in two parts. The first part, issued on September 22, 1862, was a preliminary announcement outlining the intent of the second part, which officially went into effect 100 days later on January 1, 1863, during the second year of the Civil War. Union-occupied areas of the Confederate states where the proclamation was put into immediate effect by local commanders included Winchester, Virginia, Corinth, Mississippi, the Sea Islands along the coasts of the Carolinas and Georgia, Key West, Florida, and Port Royal, South Carolina.
Fact #1: Lincoln actually issued the Emancipation Proclamation twice. Abraham Lincoln issued the preliminary Emancipation Proclamation on September 22nd, 1862. It stipulated that if the Southern states did not cease their rebellion by January 1st, 1863, then Proclamation would go into effect. When the Confederacy did not yield, Lincoln issued the final Emancipation Proclamation on January 1st, 1863. Fact #2: The Emancipation Proclamation only applied to the states in rebellion. President Lincoln justified the Emancipation Proclamation as a war measure intended to cripple the Confederacy
On January 1, 1863, the Emancipation Proclamation went into effect. Signed and issued by Abraham Lincoln, it declared free all slaves living in the confederate states, which were rebelling against the federal government at the time. The proclamation did not change the situation with the Confederacy. Confederate leaders criticized and ignored it. Slaves were freed slowly until 1865 when the Civil War ended and the 13th amendment, abolishing slavery, was ratified. However, the long-term effect of the Emancipation Proclamation is undeniable. In 1963, many incidents brought the Civil Rights Movement in the United States to the forefront. On April 16, during anti-segregation protests, Martin Luther King, Jr. , was arrested in Birmingham, Alabama. While jailed, he wrote his influential Letter from Birmingham Jail..
From the Emancipation Proclamation in 1863 to the 1963 March on Washington, 2013 marks the anniversary of important milestones in the Civil Rights movement. Below is a look back at the pivotal moments in the movement that changed the course of history. In 1963, many incidents brought the Civil Rights Movement in the United States to the forefront. On April 16, during anti-segregation protests, Martin Luther King, Jr. , was arrested in Birmingham, Alabama. While jailed, he wrote his influential Letter from Birmingham Jail..
Civil War. The Emancipation Proclamation takes effect. On this day in 1863, President Abraham Lincoln signs the final Emancipation Proclamation, which ends slavery in the rebelling states. A preliminary proclamation was issued in September 1862, following the Union victory at the Battle of Antietam in Maryland. On this day in 1863, Abraham Lincoln signs the Emancipation Proclamation. Attempting to stitch together a nation mired in a bloody civil war, Abraham Lincoln made a last-ditch, but carefully calculated, decision regarding the institution of slavery in America.
The following document is the Emancipation Proclamation, made by President Lincoln on September 22, 1862. The Emancipation Proclamation granted freedom to the slaves in the Confederate States if the States did not return to the Union by January 1, 1863. In addition, under this proclamation, freedom would only come to the slaves if the Union won the war. By the President of the United States of America: A Proclamation. Whereas, on the twenty-second day of September, in the year of our Lord one thousand eight hundred and sixty-two, a proclamation was issued by the President of the United States, containing, among other things, the following, to wit: