Lymph vessels in the tissues absorb this... The right lymphatic duct, also called the right thoracic duct, is about 1.25 cm long. It drains lymphatic fluid from the right thoracic cavity (this is the section of the trunk on the upper right side), the right arm, and from the right side of the neck and the head. The immune and lymphatic systems of the lower torso provides many vital functions to the body, including protection of the body from pathogens and the filtration and transportation of lymph, blood, and lipids. Many different structures, from red bone marrow in bones to the spleen, contribute to these processes.
The thoracic duct, or the left lymphatic duct, is the largest of the body's lymphatic ducts. It collects almost all of the lymph that circulates throughout the body (the remainder is collected by the right thoracic duct); from there, the lymph flows back into the bloodstream. The immune and lymphatic systems of the lower torso provides many vital functions to the body, including protection of the body from pathogens and the filtration and transportation of lymph, blood, and lipids. Many different structures, from red bone marrow in bones to the spleen, contribute to these processes.
Our bodies have a network of lymph nodes and lymph vessels that collect and carry watery, clear lymph fluid, much like veins collect blood from distant parts of the body (like the hands and arms) and carry it back to the heart. 
Lymph is the fluid that circulates throughout the lymphatic system. The lymph is formed when the interstitial fluid (the fluid which lies in the interstices of all body tissues) is collected through lymph capillaries. It is then transported through lymph vessels to lymph nodes before emptying ultimately into the right or the left subclavian vein, where it mixes back with blood. Lymph that enters the lymph vessels from the interstitial space usually does not flow backwards along the vessels because of the presence of valves. If excessive hydrostatic pressure develops within the lymph vessels, though, some fluid can leak back into the interstitial space and contribute to formation of oedema.
Since the lymph is derived from the interstitial fluid, its composition continually changes as the blood and the surrounding cells continually exchange substances with the interstitial fluid. Lymph returns proteins and excess interstitial fluid to the bloodstream. Lymph that enters the lymph vessels from the interstitial space usually does not flow backwards along the vessels because of the presence of valves. If excessive hydrostatic pressure develops within the lymph vessels, though, some fluid can leak back into the interstitial space and contribute to formation of oedema.
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. Lymph capillaries or lymphatic capillaries are tiny, thin-walled vessels located in the spaces between cells (except in the central nervous system and non-vascular tissues) which serve to drain and process extra-cellular fluid. 
Cancer cells can also spread to other parts of the body. Edema. Swelling caused by excess fluid in body tissues. Lymph. The clear fluid that travels through the lymphatic system and carries cells that help fight infections and other diseases. Also called lymphatic fluid. Lymph Nodes. A rounded mass of lymphatic tissue that is surrounded by a capsule of connective tissue.
The Lymph Vessels. Unlike the circulatory system which brings blood to and from the heart, lymph vessels (also called lymphatics) only carry lymph fluid in one direction, towards the heart, through a spidery network of delicate tubes. Lymphocytes are the primary cells that make up the Lymphatic system, being one-fourth of all white blood cells in the human body. Like all other white blood cells, they are produced in the bone marrow. Lymphocytes continuously travel through the body via tissue, blood or lymph vessels.
How the Lymphatic system works. As lymph capillaries carry lymph away from the tissue spaces and towards the heart, they merge to form larger and larger vessels. These larger vessels resemble veins, but their walls are thinner and they have more one-way valves to prevent lymph from flowing backwards. Lymphocytes are the primary cells that make up the Lymphatic system, being one-fourth of all white blood cells in the human body. Like all other white blood cells, they are produced in the bone marrow. Lymphocytes continuously travel through the body via tissue, blood or lymph vessels.