Acorus calamus (also called Sweet Flag or Calamus, among many common names) is a tall perennial wetland monocot of the Acoraceae family, in the genus Acorus. In spite of common names that include the words  rush  and  sedge , it is neither a rush nor sedge. In addition to sweet flag and calamus other common names include beewort, bitter pepper root, calamus root, flag root, gladdon, myrtle flag, myrtle grass, myrtle root, myrtle sedge, pine root, rat root, sea sedge, sweet cane, sweet cinnamon, sweet grass, sweet myrtle, sweet root, sweet rush, and sweet sedge.
The herb known as the acorus is a rhizome forming grass. Acorus is a perennial herb similar in appearance to an iris; it is found mainly in Japan. The acorus is found growing in and around the edges of streams and in places near ponds and lakes or other large bodies of standing water. One of the main ways in which the medication made from acorus work is by protecting the brain tissues from the deleterious effects of toxic free radicals-these ions are released as a part of the normal metabolic process at the cellular level in the presence of excessive amounts of oxygen during cellular respiration.
The exact relationship of Acorus to other monocots, however, is still debated by scientists. Some studies indicate that it is placed in a lineage (the order Alismatales), that also includes aroids (Araceae), Tofieldiaceae, and several families of aquatic monocots (e.g., Alismataceae, Posidoniaceae). This genus was once placed within the family Araceae (aroids), but more recent classifications place it in its own family Acoraceae and order Acorales, of which it is the sole genus of the oldest surviving line of monocots.
Acorus gramineus, sweet flag grass. 8 - 12. This Acorus forms a small mound of fine foliage and is useful in a damp and boggy location. 'Oborozuki' is a yellow variegated cultivar and 'Ogon' is a solid yellow plant. They do not appear to be as hardy as A. calamus, generally growing best in zones 6 to 8. Acorus is a waterside rush with long, narrow, iris-like foliage. 'Variegatus' is variegated with cream stripes. The rhizomes are sweetly scented as are the leaves when crushed. Plants spread just below the surface but are not invasive and are easily moved if necessary.
Acorus calamus. Sweet Flag family (Acoraceae). Description: This perennial plant is 1–3 ' tall, consisting of tufts of basal leaves that emerge directly from a spreading rootstock. These basal leaves are erect and sword-shaped, resembling the basal leaves of Iris spp. (Irises), but more green
Acorus americanus. 1  Acorus, the Latin form of the Greek 'akoron (akoron), presumably an ancient plant name for the Sweet Flag or the Yellow Flag Iris (Iris pseudacorus). Name:
Acorus Description and Cultural Information. Acorus calamus, sweet flag grass. 24 - 36. Acorus is a waterside rush with long, narrow, iris-like foliage. 'Variegatus' is variegated with cream stripes. The rhizomes are sweetly scented as are the leaves when crushed. Plants spread just below the surface but are not invasive and are easily moved if necessary.
Acorus americanus is a hardy perennial swamp or bog plant with sweet, spicy-scented leaves. Spadix-like flowers appear in June and July, followed by dark berries. Found at water's edge from Nova Scotia to Virginia to Washington to Alaska. 
Acorus is a genus of monocot flowering plants. This genus was once placed within the family Araceae (aroids), but more recent classifications place it in its own family Acoraceae and order Acorales, of which it is the sole genus of the oldest surviving line of monocots.