You can be contagious from a few days up to two weeks or more, depending on which virus is causing your stomach flu (gastroenteritis). A number of viruses can cause gastroenteritis, including noroviruses and rotaviruses. 1 Some people may be contagious for up to two weeks after recovery. 2  Rotavirus. 3  Symptoms of rotavirus — the leading cause of viral gastroenteritis in infants and young children — usually appear one to three days after exposure.
Depending on the specific germ, the incubation period is between 12 hours and 5 days, usually 48 hours. To answer your question, the common cold is contagious between 24 hours before onset of symptoms until 5 days after onset. Like everything else this varies depending on the organism, but that's a pretty safe estimate. 
The flu is contagious a day before and five days to a week after its onset. Young children, people over 65, those with compromised immune systems, and people with a terminal illness are at risk of death from the flu. Pregnant women are also at greater risk. The flu can also cause premature birth. Colds are contagious from about a week before you get them until all of your symptoms are gone, which is sometimes as long as two weeks. You might develop a secondary infection like an earache that lasts longer than contagious symptoms.
Flu Contagious Period. Flu starts being contagious about 24 hours before you have symptoms. You're most contagious when you first get sick and for the following 2 to 3 days. The severity of your symptoms correlates to how many new viruses are being produced, so you're less contagious as you start to feel better. Most people stop being infectious approximately 5 to 7 days after getting sick, but you can remain contagious for as long as 10 days. 
People exposed to the virus usually develop symptoms of illness within 24 to 48 hours, but symptoms can occur as soon as 12 hours after exposure. People infected with a norovirus can be contagious from the moment they start feeling ill to at least three days after they have recovered. People infected with a norovirus are contagious from the moment they begin feeling ill to at least three days after recovery. Some people may be contagious for as long as two weeks after recovery. Good hygiene practices, including frequent hand washing, are very important during this period.
Norovirus may have a prolonged infection period that starts even before a patient gets sick. There is a short lag or incubation period (up to two days) between the time that people acquire the virus and the time they get symptoms. People may be contagious during this period. All people are contagious while they are having symptoms
1 Symptoms usually appear within one to two days of exposure. 2  Although you typically feel better after a day or two, you're contagious for up to three days after you've recovered. 3  Some people may be contagious for up to two weeks after recovery. 4  Rotavirus. 1 Some people may be contagious for up to two weeks after recovery. 2  Rotavirus. 3  Symptoms of rotavirus — the leading cause of viral gastroenteritis in infants and young children — usually appear one to three days after exposure.
Transmission. People infected with RSV are usually contagious for 3 to 8 days. However, some infants and people with weakened immune systems can be contagious for as long as 4 weeks. Children are often exposed to and infected with RSV outside the home, such as in school or childcare.