Turns out a Census-Designated Place, or CDP, is a term assigned by the U.S. Census Bureau to communities that resemble cities but lack incorporation or any sort of municipal government. Or a post office, it seems (at least in the case of Keystone). So in the eyes of the Census Bureau, Keystone is not a real place. Great! But it gets slightly more complicated than that…. The view on the 25 minute gondola ride to the top of the mountain! Hawaii for instance, doesn’t have incorporated communities, making it a state full of Census-Designated Places… Take Honolulu.
Geographic Terms and Concepts-Place. Incorporated Places are those reported to the Census Bureau as legally in existence as of January 1, 2010, as reported in the latest Boundary and Annexation Survey (BAS), under the laws of their respective states. The only exception is if the place is independent of the MCDs in a state (Iowa, Louisiana, Maryland, Nebraska, North Carolina, and Virginia) in which the FIPS MCD codes are in the 90000 range.
A census-designated place (CDP) is a type of place (a concentration of population) identified by the United States Census Bureau for statistical purposes. CDPs are delineated for each decennial census as the statistical counterparts of incorporated places such as cities, towns and villages. 
99 pages on this wiki. A census-designated place (abbreviated, CDP) is a type of place (a concentration of population) identified by the United States Census Bureau for statistical purposes. CDPs are delineated for each decennial census as the statistical counterparts of incorporated places such as cities and villages. The population and demographics of the CDP district are included in the data of county subdivisions containing the CDP. In no case is a CDP defined within the boundaries of what the Census Bureau regards to be an incorporated city or village.
The U.S. Census Bureau states that census designated places are not considered incorporated places and that it includes only census designated places in its city population list for Hawaii because that state has no incorporated cities. 1 A formerly incorporated place may disincorporate or be partly annexed by a neighboring town, but the former town or a part of it may still be reported by the census as a CDP by meeting criteria for a CDP.
A Census-Designated Place may be nothing more than a statistical blip according to the Census Bureau, but I think they’re kind of fascinating. Though I don’t think anyone would argue that Honolulu isn’t a real city, we now know what we can call a town that is nothing more than a corporate owned resort. So in the eyes of the Census Bureau, Keystone is not a real place. Great! But it gets slightly more complicated than that…. The view on the 25 minute gondola ride to the top of the mountain! Hawaii for instance, doesn’t have incorporated communities, making it a state full of Census-Designated Places… Take Honolulu.
A census-designated place (CDP) is a type of place that is identified by the United States Census Bureau for statistical reasons. From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia. A census-designated place (CDP) is a type of place that is identified by the United States Census Bureau for statistical reasons. They are communities that do not have their own government, but are similar to incorporated places in other ways.
A Census-designated place (CDP) is a categorization used by the United States Census for the purpose of collecting and tabulating data. Census-designated places are locally recognized communities with population clusters which lack legal status such as incorporation within the states where they are located. There are no firm population thresholds for a CDP; generally, they have populations of around 3,500. Several characteristics differentiate a Census-designated place from other “places” or centers of population. The first is the lack of incorporation.
A census designated place (CDP) is a concentration of population identified by the United States Census Bureau for statistical purposes. CDPs are delineated for each decennial census as the statistical counterparts of incorporated places, such as cities, towns, and villages. 1 A formerly incorporated place may disincorporate or be partly annexed by a neighboring town, but the former town or a part of it may still be reported by the census as a CDP by meeting criteria for a CDP.