BRASSIDIUM BLUE BUTTERFLY. Brassidium is an intergeneric hybrid between the orchid genera Brassia and Oncidium. Blue butterfly is an asset for collectors due to the frequency of its blooming cycle. It is star shaped with maroon spots and a striking large, light blue lip. 
Temperature Requirements. As discussed in this orchid plant care article on temperature, the ideal daytime temperatures to grow your Brassia orchid is between 65°F to 75°F (18.3°C to 23.9°C), and night temperatures should be between 55°F to 65°F (12.8°C to 18.3°C). Fertilizer Requirements. Brassias should be fertilized when in active growth with a diluted solution. It is important to flush out any excess fertilizer (once a month) so that the excess build-up of salt does not do damage to the plant’s roots or leaves.
Brassia species and its popular hybrids are common in cultivation, and are notable for the characteristic long and spreading tepals (in some clones longer than 50 cm), which lend them the common name spider orchid. There are two distichous, foliaceous sheaths around the base, from which the inflorescence emerges. Brassia has a very specific method for pollination: it uses entomophily: pollination by insects and in this case specifically by female spider-hunter wasps of the genera Pepsis and Campsomeris. Mistaken by the mimicry of Brassia, the wasp stings the lip, while trying to grasp its prey without any success
Notes: Comments: Brassidium (Brsdm.) Fly Away) is the progeny of Brsdm. Gilded Urchin by Oncidium maculatum. Brsdm is composed of crosses between hybrids and species of Brassias and Oncidiums. When the clone 'Miami' was awarded a Highly Commended Certificate, by the AOS, in 1996, the plant carried fifteen well spaced flowers. The flowers were 8.5 cms (3.3 inches) in natural spread
In the tropical forests they receive diffused light through the trees. Keep your Brassidium orchid moist during the growing season. This is the period when the pseudobulb develops and flower spikes appear. After this period, when in flower, don’t overwater; the fat pseudobulb at the base is helping hold moisture. Water once a week or when the pot begins to feel light. Brassidium orchids appreciate humidity, temperatures between 65F and 75F during the day, and good air circulation that can be provided by a fan. Since our homes tend to be dry, if you’d like to keep your brassia happy, add a shallow tray of pebbles in water that the pot can sit on (but not in the water)
Brassia orchids are a small genus of 30 to 40 species with numerous hybrids, and when it comes to Brassia orchid care, there are a few important things to know: The petals of the Brassia orchid are yellow or green in color with brown or maroon striping or spotting. Fertilizer Requirements. Brassias should be fertilized when in active growth with a diluted solution. It is important to flush out any excess fertilizer (once a month) so that the excess build-up of salt does not do damage to the plant’s roots or leaves.
The humidity level can be easily increased in your orchids growing area by placing your orchid on a humidity tray. These are found in orchid specialty stores and sometimes also in home improvement stores. Remember, it is important that your orchid’s roots do not directly sit in the water. Fertilizer Requirements. Brassias should be fertilized when in active growth with a diluted solution. It is important to flush out any excess fertilizer (once a month) so that the excess build-up of salt does not do damage to the plant’s roots or leaves.
Botanical Name: Brassia Orchid Species and Hybrids. Who can resist the spider orchid. From the tops of their spikey dorsal sepals to the narrow trailing sepals that can hang 10 in (25 cm) or more, their unusual flowers captivate even the casual orchid grower. These plants are big, with sprawling flower spikes that require a bit of space.