Depo-Provera® is a female hormonal method of birth control. It’s very effective in preventing pregnancy. Depo-Provera® contains a synthetic (man-made) form of the hormone progesterone, called depot medroxyprogesterone acetate (DMPA). The Depo-Provera® injection gives 3 months protection against pregnancy. You should get one injection every 3 months (13 weeks) to get the best protection against pregnancy
The off-label use of human growth hormone (HGH) has spawned a multi-billion dollar industry. Some doctors see it as a fountain of youth, while others are staunchly opposed and fear that the risks far outweigh the potential benefits. The FDA has not approved the use of human growth hormone as an anti-aging therapy. Here, I’ll review what HGH is, how it works, and the pros and cons of use. Many of the effects of HGH are brought about through a second hormone, insulin-like growth factor-1, made by the liver. HGH is given by daily injection, and is quite expensive. Alternative treatments, such as the nasal spray or pills to stimulate HGH release, have not been proven to have any benefit.
Human growth hormone: Up close and personal. Growth hormone (GH) is a small protein that is made by the pituitary gland and secreted into the bloodstream. GH production is controlled by a complex set of hormones produced in the hypothalamus of the brain and in the intestinal tract and pancreas. 
But the most common uses for HGH are not FDA-approved. Some people use the hormone, along with other performance-enhancing drugs such as anabolic steroids in an attempt to build muscle and improve athletic performance. Yet HGH's effect on athletic performance is unknown. Synthetic human growth hormone was developed in 1985 and approved by the FDA for specific uses in children and adults. In children, HGH injections are approved for treating short stature of unknown cause as well as poor growth due to a number of medical causes, including:
But experts say that hope is unfounded. And worse, these products can be harmful. HGH, produced by the pituitary gland, spurs growth in children and adolescents. It also helps to regulate body composition, body fluids, muscle and bone growth, sugar and fat metabolism, and possibly heart function. Synthetic human growth hormone was developed in 1985 and approved by the FDA for specific uses in children and adults. In children, HGH injections are approved for treating short stature of unknown cause as well as poor growth due to a number of medical causes, including:
Growth hormone treatment refers to the use of growth hormone (GH) as a prescription medication —it is one form of hormone therapy. Growth hormone is a peptide hormone secreted by the pituitary gland that stimulates growth and cell reproduction. In the past, growth hormone was extracted from human pituitary glands. GH is now produced by recombinant DNA technology and is prescribed for a variety of reasons
Hormone treatments can be given in many ways such as by injection or as pills. Drugs can stop the testicles from producing testosterone and protect cells from any other androgens that remain in the body. Hormone treatment may include: 1  The use of various hormones such as estrogen to counter the effects of testosterone. 2  The use of drugs that lower testosterone levels or block the activity of male hormones in the body, including antiandrogen agents, luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) analogs, or agonists.
Some breast cancer cells need estrogen and/or progesterone (female hormones that are produced in the body) to grow. When these hormones attach to special proteins called hormone receptors, the cancer cells with these receptors grow. Hormone therapy for breast cancer treatment is different from menopausal hormone therapy (MHT). MHT may also be called postmenopausal hormone use or hormone replacement therapy. Hormone therapies used in breast cancer treatment block hormone actions or lower hormone levels in the body.
Growth hormone deficiency in adults is rare and may be caused by pituitary adenoma — a tumor on the pituitary gland — or treatment of the adenoma with surgery or radiotherapy. For adults who have a growth hormone deficiency, injections of human growth hormone can: 1  Increase exercise capacity. 2  Increase bone density. Growth hormone is produced by the pituitary gland — a pea-sized structure at the base of the brain — to fuel childhood growth and help maintain tissues and organs throughout life.