For example, a geologist might wish to know if a layer of limestone in NY is the same layer of limestone found in MI. Correlation can be useful because valuable minerals can be found in specific layers of rock, and if we can identify the same layer far away we might be able to exploit the resource over a large area. o find the index fossil we eliminate any fossils that don't show up in each column, and fossils that appear in more than one layer per column. Can be eliminated because it shows up in two different layers in the first outcrop. Therefore we can eliminate all of these from the diagram.
If the letters T and C represent fossils in the oldest rock layer, they are the oldest fossils, or the first fossils formed in the past for this sequence of rock layers. 2) Now, look for a card that has either a T or C written on it. Relative dating tells scientists if a rock layer is older or younger than another. This would also mean that fossils found in the deepest layer of rocks in an area would represent the oldest forms of life in that particular rock formation.
We can see fossils of many other reptiles in rock of the same age and even older, but Archaeopteryx lithographica is the oldest known fossil to have feathers. We conclude that this animal is a link between reptiles and birds and that birds are descended from reptiles. Fossils can be used to recognize rocks of the same or different ages. The fossils in this figure are the remains of microscopic algae. The pictures shown were made with a scanning electron microscope and have been magnified about 250 times.
Consequently, palaeontologists rely on stratigraphy to date fossils. Stratigraphy is the science of deciphering the layer-cake that is the sedimentary record. Rocks normally form relatively horizontal layers, with each layer younger than the one underneath it. If a fossil is found between two layers whose ages are known, the fossil's age is claimed to lie between the two known ages. 
These fossils are very useful for us because we can use them to date the layers of rock that they are found in. Fossils that can be used in this way are called index fossils, and rock layers with the same index fossils in them can be correlated. To be considered an index fossil, it must meet 3 criteria: 1. The fossilized organism must be easily recognizable. o find the index fossil we eliminate any fossils that don't show up in each column, and fossils that appear in more than one layer per column. Can be eliminated because it shows up in two different layers in the first outcrop. Therefore we can eliminate all of these from the diagram.
ROCKS AND LAYERS. Most of the rocks exposed at the surface of Earth are sedimentary --formed from particles of older rocks that have been broken apart by water or wind. The gravel, sand, and mud settle to the bottom in rivers, lakes, and oceans. 
Find a rock layer that has at least one of the fossils you found in the oldest rock layer. This rock layer would be younger as indicated by the appearance of new fossils in the rock stratum. Keep in mind that extinction is forever. Once an organism disappears from the sequence it cannot reappear later. 
Sedimentary rock is rock that is formed in layers by the depositing and pressing of sediments on top of each other. Sediments are any loose material that gets broken away and carried: pieces of rocks, pebbles, sand, clay, silt, boulders, dead organisms, animals, plants, shells, insects. . . . When, over a long time, layers and layers of sediments get deposited on top of each other, the weight of the top layers presses down on the bottom layers, forming them into rock called sedimentary rock. The oldest layers are on the bottom, and the youngest layers are on the top.
Find a rock layer that has at least one of the fossils you found in the oldest rock layer. This rock layer would be younger as indicated by the appearance of new fossils in the rock stratum. Keep in mind that extinction is forever. Relative dating tells scientists if a rock layer is older or younger than another. This would also mean that fossils found in the deepest layer of rocks in an area would represent the oldest forms of life in that particular rock formation.