The idea for a locally based, student-run organization was conceived when Ella Baker, a veteran civil rights organizer and an SCLC ofﬁcial, invited black college students who had participated in the early 1960 sit-ins to an April 1960 gathering at Shaw University in Raleigh, North Carolina. By the time the Interstate Commerce Commission began enforcing the ruling mandating equal treatment in interstate travel in November 1961, SNCC was immersed in voter registration efforts in McComb, Mississippi, and a desegregation campaign in Albany, Georgia, known as the Albany Movement.
Ella Baker, who organized the Shaw conference, was the SCLC director at the time she helped form SNCC. But SNCC was not a branch of SCLC. Instead of being closely tied to SCLC or the NAACP as a youth division, SNCC sought to stand on its own. Ms. Baker later lost her job with SCLC, which she had helped found. 1 Interviews with civil rights workers from the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) . 2  Stanford University Project South oral history collection. 3  Microfilming Corp. of America. 4  1975.
The Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC, pronounced Snick) was founded in Raleigh, North Carolina, in April 1960. SNCC became one of the most important civil rights organizations of the 1960s, and Alabama and Alabamians played vital roles in its efforts. John Lewis. SNCC's origins lay in the student sit-ins against segregation that began on February 1, 1960, when four North Carolina A&T College students sat down at a Woolworth's lunch counter in Greensboro, North Carolina, and requested service.
As early as 1965, organization leader James Forman said he did not know “how much longer we can stay nonviolent” and in 1969, SNCC officially changed its name to the Student National Coordinating Committee to reflect the broadening of its strategies. It passed out of existence in the 1970s. 1 Interviews with civil rights workers from the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) . 2  Stanford University Project South oral history collection. 3  Microfilming Corp. of America. 4  1975.
The Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) was founded in April 1960, by young people who had emerged as leaders of the sit-in protest movement initiated on February 1 of that year by four black college students in Greensboro, North Carolina. By the time the Interstate Commerce Commission began enforcing the ruling mandating equal treatment in interstate travel in November 1961, SNCC was immersed in voter registration efforts in McComb, Mississippi, and a desegregation campaign in Albany, Georgia, known as the Albany Movement.
Introduction. The Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee (SNCC), formed to give younger blacks more of a voice in the civil rights movement, became one of the movement’s more radical branches. A+E Networks
The Southern Christian Leadership Conference (SCLC) is an African-American civil rights organization. SCLC, which is closely associated with its first president, Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. , had a large role in the American Civil Rights Movement. A. Philip Randolph and Bayard Rustin issued similar calls for a March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom. On July 2, 1963, King, Randolph, and Rustin met with James L. Farmer, Jr. of CORE, John Lewis of SNCC, Roy Wilkins of the NAACP, and Whitney Young of the Urban League to plan a united march on August 28.
The Southern Christian Leadership Conference, often referred to as the SCLC, was one of the most significant participants in the civil rights movement in the 1950s and 1960s. The organization is still active on issues of social justice. 
SNCC redirects here. For other uses, see SNCC (disambiguation) . The Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC, often pronounced snick: /ˈsnɪk/) was one of the most important organizations of the American Civil Rights Movement in the 1960s. 1 Interviews with civil rights workers from the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC) . 2  Stanford University Project South oral history collection. 3  Microfilming Corp. of America. 4  1975.
SNCC’s emergence as a force in the southern civil rights movement came largely through the involvement of students in the 1961 Freedom Rides, designed to test a 1960 Supreme Court ruling that declared segregation in interstate travel facilities unconstitutional. By the time the Interstate Commerce Commission began enforcing the ruling mandating equal treatment in interstate travel in November 1961, SNCC was immersed in voter registration efforts in McComb, Mississippi, and a desegregation campaign in Albany, Georgia, known as the Albany Movement.