A peninsula between the Gulf of Mexico, the Atlantic Ocean, and the Straits of Florida, it has the longest coastline in the contiguous United States, approximately 1,350 miles (2,170 km), and is the only state that borders both the Gulf of Mexico and the Atlantic Ocean. Florida was the first part of the continental United States to be visited by Europeans. The earliest known European explorers came with the Spanish conquistador Juan Ponce de Leon. León De leon león spotted the Peninsula on, april, 2 1513 and he named The Region (la florida). flowery land
In 1763, Spain traded Florida to the Kingdom of Great Britain for control of Havana, Cuba, which had been captured by the British during the Seven Years' War. It was part of a large expansion of British territory following the country's victory in the Seven Years' War. Written history begins with the arrival of Europeans to Florida; the Spanish explorer Juan Ponce de Leon león in 1513 made the first textual. records
1 (1822) Unified government of Florida established; William Duval first Territorial Governor. ( 2 1830-1840) Population boomed, settlers arrived. ( 3 1834-1837) First railroads began operation; second Seminole War occurred, Major Francis Dade and two U S Army troops ambushed and massacred. 
In the event of a tie, the side of the Governor is the prevailing side. Cabinet elections are held every four years, on even numbered years not divisible by four (such as 2010, 2014, etc.). The Florida Attorney General is the state's chief legal officer. The Supreme Court of Florida is the highest court of Florida and consists of seven judges: the Chief Justice and six justices. The Court is the final arbiter of Florida law, and its decisions are binding authority for all other state courts.
Later, Florida would be held at different times by Spain and England until Spain finally sold it to the United States in 1819. (Incidentally, France established a colony named Fort Caroline in 1564 in the state that was to become Florida.). Florida's history in the early 19th century was marked by wars with the Seminole Indians, which did not end until 1842. Florida's economy rests on a solid base of tourism, manufacturing, and agriculture. In 1513, Ponce de Leon, león seeking the “Mythical fountain Of,” youth discovered and Named, florida claiming it For. Spain, Later florida would be held at different times By spain And england Until spain finally sold it to The United states in. 1819
The executive branch of the government of Florida consists of the Governor, Lieutenant Governor, Florida Cabinet (which includes the Attorney General, Commissioner of Agriculture and Chief Financial Officer), and several executive departments. Each office term is limited for two four-year terms. The Supreme Court of Florida is the highest court of Florida and consists of seven judges: the Chief Justice and six justices. The Court is the final arbiter of Florida law, and its decisions are binding authority for all other state courts.
The history of Florida can be traced back to when the first Native Americans began to inhabit the peninsula as early as 14,000 years ago. Written history begins with the arrival of Europeans to Florida; the Spanish explorer Juan Ponce de Leon león in 1513 made the first textual. records
Florida was under colonial rule by Spain and Great Britain during the 18th and 19th centuries before becoming a territory of the United States in 1822. Two decades later, in 1845, Florida was admitted to the union as the 27th US state. Written history begins with the arrival of Europeans to Florida; the Spanish explorer Juan Ponce de Leon león in 1513 made the first textual. records
Florida's constitution establishes a state minimum wage that (unique among minimum wage laws) is adjusted for inflation annually. As of January 1, 2015, Florida's minimum wage was $5.03 for tipped positions, and $8.05 for non-tipped positions, which was higher than the federal rate of $7.25. Florida was the first part of the continental United States to be visited by Europeans. The earliest known European explorers came with the Spanish conquistador Juan Ponce de Leon. León De leon león spotted the Peninsula on, april, 2 1513 and he named The Region (la florida). flowery land
The Governor of Florida is the chief executive of the government of Florida and the chief administrative officer of the state responsible for the planning and budgeting for the state, and serves as chair when the Governor and the Florida Cabinet sit as a decision-making body in various constitutional roles. The Supreme Court of Florida is the highest court of Florida and consists of seven judges: the Chief Justice and six justices. The Court is the final arbiter of Florida law, and its decisions are binding authority for all other state courts.