Also, Demi is used in Ballet (Demi Plie) meaning 'half of a plie' ('bending your legs' simply in English). The fact there's Demi Bras is another reason to hate this name. Demi rhymes with 'semi' which has an unpleasant slang meaning (find out on Urban Dictionary). Someone could say Demi gives me a semi!. A famous bearer is actress Demi Moore (full first name Demetria), best known for her roles in Ghost and G.I. Jane. At one point, she was married to Bruce Willis and had three daughters with him (Rumer Glen, Scout LaRue, and Tallulah Belle), but is currently married to actor Ashton Kutcher.
Popularity of the Name Demi. The popularity of the name Demi on the charts exactly corresponds with the popularity of the actress Demi Moore and again later with Demi Lovato. So we have to say this one is almost solely a pop-culture inspired name. Parents using it are probably not aware of the Greek goddess Demeter.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Demi. Demi is a diminutive of Demetria, a name derived from the Greek goddess Demeter. Demeter comes from the Greek elements “de” (δε) meaning “earth” and “meter” (μητηρ) meaning “mother” which is an appropriate etymology for the Greek goddess of agriculture. The popularity of the name Demi on the charts exactly corresponds with the popularity of the actress Demi Moore and again later with Demi Lovato. So we have to say this one is almost solely a pop-culture inspired name. Parents using it are probably not aware of
English Meaning: The name Demi is an English baby name. In English the meaning of the name Demi is: Abbreviation of Demetria-the mythological goddess of corn and harvest. American Meaning: The name Demi is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Demi is: Abbreviation of Demetria-the mythological goddess of corn and harvest.
What does Demi mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Demi is of English origin. The meaning of Demi is loves the earth, earth mother, follower of Demeter. Less than 5 boys were given the name. View the Demi Name Popularity Page to see how the popularity trend for Demi has changed since 1880, or to compare the popularity of Demi to other names. Demi is a diminutive (nickname) of Demetria. Demi falls into the celestial name category
Demi /de-mi/ [2 sylls.] as a girls' name is pronounced DEH-mee, deh-MEE. It is of French and English origin, and the meaning of Demi is half. Also short form of Demetria. Actress Demi Moore. Kreatif forms: Decmi, Diami, Dimi. Demi is an uncommon given name for women but a somewhat popular last name for all people (#76208 out of 150436, Top 51%). (2000 U.S. Census). Displayed below is the birth name popularity of Demi for girls.
Demi also has Latin roots as a feminine given name, originally a nickname form of Demetria, the feminine form of the masculine name Demetrius, which is itself the Latin and English spelling of Greek name Demetrios. Demi is uncommon as a surname. 
Personal experiences with the name Demi: | Edit. Share what you know! Nicknames for Demi: | Edit. Share what you know! Meanings and history of the name Demi: | Edit. This name first gained wide attention through the actress Demi Moore, who used it as a short form of her full name, Demetria. It is now being used as an independent name
Meaning of Demi. English name. In English, the name Demi means-Abbreviation of Demetria-the mythological goddess of corn and harvest.. Other origins for the name Demi include-English, Greek.The name Demi is most often used as a girl name or female name. English Name Meaning-Abbreviation of Demetria-the mythological goddess of corn and harvest. Origin-English.