As a general rule, you can withdraw your contributions from a Roth IRA at any time without paying tax or penalty. If you withdraw money from a conversion too soon after that event, and before age 59½, you may incur a penalty. You convert this IRA to a Roth IRA, paying tax on $6,000. Two years later you make a regular contribution of $2,000 to a different Roth IRA. A year after that, you withdraw $3,000 from the conversion Roth IRA.
If you take a distribution from the conversion money in your Roth IRA within five years after the conversion, the early distribution penalty will apply even though the distribution isn’t taxable. Example: You convert your traditional IRA, with a value of $20,000, to a Roth IRA, paying tax on the entire amount. Two years later, when you are under age 59½, you withdraw $5,000 from the Roth IRA, and the distribution comes from conversion money because you haven’t made any regular contributions to your Roth IRA. You convert this IRA to a Roth IRA, paying tax on $6,000. Two years later you make a regular contribution of $2,000 to a different Roth IRA. A year after that, you withdraw $3,000 from the conversion Roth IRA.
Roth contributions. You can take penalty-free withdrawals from a Roth IRA, if they don’t exceed the amount you contributed and the account is at least 5 years old. But the earnings in the Roth IRA don’t become tax free until you turn 59 ½. And if you take money out, you’ll have reduced its ability to grow.
To make qualified distributions from a Roth IRA, you must be at least 59½ and it must be at least five years since you first began contributing. And if you converted a regular IRA to a Roth IRA, you can't take out the money penalty-free until at least five years after the conversion. Just to make it more confusing, there are several exceptions to these rules. Generally, you may withdraw your contributions to a Roth penalty-free at any time for any reason, as long as you don't withdraw any earnings on your investments (as opposed to the amount you put in) or dollars converted from a traditional IRA before age 59 ½. In that case, you'll get hit with that same 10% penalty.
If you wait until after the five-tax-year period to withdraw money from a Roth IRA, the 10% penalty won't be imposed, even if you aren't yet 59 1/2 and don't meet any other exception to the penalty. Unless an exception applies, most distributions from a Roth IRA before the owner reaches age 59 1/2 will be subject to an early withdrawal penalty of 10% on the amount of the distribution.
Well, the IRS views withdrawals from a Roth IRA in the following order: your contributions, money converted from traditional IRAs and finally, investment earnings. For example, let's say your IRA has $100,000 in it, $50,000 of which are contributions and $50,000 of which are investment earnings. You can take money out of your Roth IRA anytime you want. However, you need to be careful how much you withdraw or you may get stuck with a penalty. In order to make qualified distributions in retirement, you must be at least 59½ years old, and at least five years must have passed since you first began contributing
It's not often that you can take money from your traditional IRA or from your earnings in a Roth IRA before age 59 1/2 and avoid the dreaded 10% early withdrawal penalty. But, surprisingly enough, this is one of the tax benefits enacted as part of the 1997 Taxpayer Relief Act to help people become homeowners. 
When it's time to take money out of your 401(k) or IRA, the magic number is 59 A½. â½'that s the age at which you can withdraw money from a retirement plan without handing THE irs a10 % bonus on top of the regular taxes you will. owe 
It is normally subject to taxes and a 10% early-withdrawal penalty if you’re under age 59½ when you take the money. If you’re a first-time home buyer, however, you can withdraw up to $10,000 in earnings from your Roth IRA without the 10% early-withdrawal penalty, even if you’re under age 59½. When you withdraw money from a Roth IRA, your contributions are counted first, then the conversions, and finally, the earnings. As you mentioned, you can take your contributions tax-free and penalty-free at any time.