Overview. Crabgrass, sometimes known as finger grass or crowfoot grass, is a common weed in many North American lawns. The weed's hardy nature and prolific seed production helps it spread quickly. Without proper management, crabgrass can overwhelm your lawn and choke out your grass. Step 3. Use pre-emergence herbicides. These chemicals prevent crabgrass seeds from sprouting, breaking its life cycle. They do not affect already-growing plants, thereby protecting your lawn.
The fast way to kill crabgrass could also be a fast way to kill your good lawn grass.Many lawns will tolerate a chemical spray designed to kill crabgrass, but not all grass varieties are safe. Many different manufacturers of garden chemicals offer their own version of crabgrass killer. You want to use a “selective” killer intended to specifically kill crabgrass in a lawn. If the crabgrass you are spraying is young, it may die after one treatment. More mature weeds may require one or two repeat applications.
Apply post-emergence crabgrass herbicides. These herbicides kill the crabgrass and will completely eradicate any crabgrass populations when used in conjunction with a pre-emergency herbicide. Example herbicides include Fenoxaprop and Dithiopyr, and target crabgrass without harming lawn grass species. Step 3. Use pre-emergence herbicides. These chemicals prevent crabgrass seeds from sprouting, breaking its life cycle. They do not affect already-growing plants, thereby protecting your lawn.
These products are designed as a convenience to help control broadleaf weeds in your lawn, while you fertilize. They will not kill crabgrass. Broadleaf weeds and grassy weeds are completely different types of plants. Different chemicals have been designed for each group. Always use a product intended for your purpose. You want to use a “selective” killer intended to specifically kill crabgrass in a lawn. If the crabgrass you are spraying is young, it may die after one treatment. More mature weeds may require one or two repeat applications.
Crab grass is unsightly and extraordinarily difficult to remove once it has taken hold in your lawn. The only way to remove crab grass from your lawn without risking damage to the desirable grass is to pull it from the lawn by hand. However, if you have a large lawn or a lot of crab grass, removing it by hand is not likely to be your first choice for how to spend your Saturday. 1 Do not water the lawn after applying the weed killer or it will wash onto the grass and kill it. 2  Do not treat the crab grass if rain is forecast for the next two days. 3  Turn off your sprinkler system to avoid washing the weed killer onto the rest of your lawn. 4  Always wear gloves when working with weed killer
If the crabgrass seeds have already sprouted and crabgrass has appeared in your grass, the pre-emergent herbicide will do no good. However, you still have an option. Post-emergent herbicide products control crabgrass after it has already germinated. Post-emergent herbicides work by killing the crabgrass plants. Apply these herbicides only to the crabgrass that is visible. Read and follow the manufacturer's directions on the product carefully. The amount of post-emergent herbicide that you can safely apply to your lawn depends on the type of grass you have.
Crabgrass is a common problem in the typical lawn. Crabgrass is an annual grass that germinates once soil temperature reaches 55 to 60 degrees Fahrenheit for seven to 10 consecutive days. It grows all summer and produces seed that will germinate the following season. 