African violet. Saintpaulia ionantha. African violet care is incredibly easy. African violets are easy-to-grow, rewarding houseplants. They bloom well with lower light than most other blooming plants, although they will perform better with medium to bright, indirect light. (Saintpaulia ionantha 'Taboo') has single, deep red-violet flowers and scalloped medium green leaves. (Saintpaulia ionantha 'Tomahawk') has cherry red blooms and deep green leaves. (Saintpaulia ionantha 'Vermont') blooms in rich, deep purple. Its medium green leaves have reddish petioles and undersides.
Saintpaulia ionantha African Violet or Saintpaulia ionantha is one of the most popular houseplants. I cannot remember when I first came across it, but I do remember at one time I was pretty crazy over the African Violet, despite knowing it was not the easiest plant to grow where I stay. Propagation African Violets are usually grown from cuttings. Cut a leaf with 2 to 5 cm of stalk, and insert into cutting compost, keeping the temperature at 20&degC. Pests and diseases A host of diseases plight the African Violets.
African Violet. Saintpaulia is often know as an African Violet because it originates from Africa and the flowers look like violets (although they are unrelated). The plant is a newish addition to our homes, only appearing in large numbers starting in America in the 1930's but has been loved ever since. 
Today, African Violet cultivars total over 2000 and are available with flower in colours ranging from white, to pink, violet, yellow, and of course, blue. Botanical Name Saintpaulia ionantha Family Gesneriaceae Type Indoor Plant Position African Violets need plenty of light, but not full sun. Propagation African Violets are usually grown from cuttings. Cut a leaf with 2 to 5 cm of stalk, and insert into cutting compost, keeping the temperature at 20&degC. Pests and diseases A host of diseases plight the African Violets.
J. Chen and R. J. Henny. African violets (Saintpaulia ionantha) are consumer favorites and have been enjoyed as flowering houseplants since their introduction into the United States in 1894. They readily adapt to interior conditions and are commonly seen as specimen plants, in dish gardens, and in terrarium plantings. African violets were discovered in 1892 in eastern Africa by Baron Walter von Saint Paul, and the genus was named Saintpaulia in his honor. Two species, S. ionantha and S. confusa, are parents of most of the hybrids lines available today.
The African Violet, Saintpaulia ionantha, is among the most popular of house plants with wholesale sales in 1995 exceeding 25 million dollars. This popularity is due to its ability to thrive under conditions commonly found in most homes, and its usefulness as a specimen plant, center piece, or feature in dish gardens. 
Once found only in the coastal woods of east Africa, African violets (Saintpaulia ionantha) are now among the most popular indoor plants. They are easy to grow and offer a wealth of beautiful flowers. 
The African violet is one of the most satisfactory flowering houseplants. It is a low, compact plant with attractive dark green, thick, hairy leaves. The violet-like flowers are borne in small panicles just above the foliage. Besides various shades of blue-violet, there are also pink, fuchsia, and white cultivars. Most violets are now grown in pasteurized soilless mixes. A good soilless mix is made up of 3 parts sphagnum peat moss, 2 parts vermiculite and 1 part perlite, with some lime added to balance the acidity of the peat moss.
ENH 1096 Cultural Guidelines for Commercial Production of African Violets (Saintpaulia ionantha) 1 J. Chen and R. J. Henny 21. This document is ENH 1096, one of a series of the Environmental Horticulture Department, UF/IFAS Extension. Irrigate with a fine mist so that seeds will Figure 1. Their bright flowers and multiple colors and sizes along with their velvety, evergreen leaves make African violet plants consumer favorites. Cultural Guidelines for Commercial Production of African Violets (Saintpaulia ionantha) 2 settle into the medium. Further covering is not necessary