Time and Entrance Fee for Taj Mahal The cost to visit monuments, parks and popular attractions in India varies as the amount a person pays as entrance fee can depend on a persons nationality. Furthermore, many places charge extra if you are taking a camera with you to take photographs. Photography is permitted so take along your camera. Night time visiting hours for Taj Mahal Night time viewing of the Taj Mahal is an opportunity that many tourists miss out on because of the limited timings and the number of people allowed per night.
• Visitors are divided into eight batches of 50 people each. • There is also a time limit of 30 minutes set for each batch to view the Taj Mahal at night. Where to get tickets for Night Viewing of the Taj Mahal Tickets for night viewing must be purchased one day (24 hours) in advance. Photography is permitted so take along your camera. Night time visiting hours for Taj Mahal Night time viewing of the Taj Mahal is an opportunity that many tourists miss out on because of the limited timings and the number of people allowed per night.
I suggest that you visit it before you visit the Taj. Once you arrive, one hour is sufficient. Agra Fort: Once you arrive, plan on 2 hours to walk through. I recommend that you read The Taj Mahal-Passion and Genius at the Heart of the Mughal Empire by Diana Preston before you visit Agra. The book does a good job of discussing the Mughal empire and all of these sites
The Taj Mahal in India was built by a grief-stricken emperor Shah Jahan. His wife Mumtaz Mahal died in 1631 while giving birth to their 14th child. Construction of the Taj Mahal began one year later and it was built to be the final resting place of Mumtaz Mahal. The marble used in construction was brought from many different countries. The Taj Mahal has a large white dome surrounded by four smaller domes. The large white dome in the center is approximately 115 feet tall. The color of Taj Mahal appears to change color depending on the time of day. The color change also depends on whether there is moonlight at night
For many people, a visit to the Taj Mahal in Agra, India, is a once-in-a-lifetime trip and that means photos. Lots of photos. 
1 Taj Mahal Western Gate :- Tickets are available on Western Gate near Saheli Burj. (Timing-from Sunrise to Sunset). 2  Taj Mahal Eastern Gate :- Tickets are available at Shilpgram (about 750 meters from Eastern Gate of Taj Mahal. ( 3 Timing-from Sunrise to Sunset). 1 Taj Mahal Eastern Gate :- Tickets are available at Shilpgram (about 750 meters from Eastern Gate of Taj Mahal. ( 2 Timing-from Sunrise to Sunset). 3  Taj Mahal Southern Gate :- Tickets are available on Southern Gate.
One knows that it is one amongst the UNESCO World Heritage Sites!! One knows The Taj as a legend of eternal love of an Emperor for his favourite Queen!!! Well, ‘The Taj’ has distinctions much beyond just these! Therefore, ‘The Taj’, surely, deserves your visit once and more!!! 1 For all the World Heritage Sites tickets are available on Ticket Counters of World Heritage Sites in India. 2  A composite ticket of Taj Mahal (Inclusive of ASI & ADA fees) is available at all World Heritage Sites in india. 3  No Entry fee for children below the age of 15 years.
Entry Fees and Information. For foreigners, the entrance fee to the Taj Mahal consists of a 250 rupee Entry Tax (Archeological Society of India) and 500 rupees Toll Tax (Agra Development Authority). Indian nationals only pay is 20 rupees (50 cents). Children younger than 15 years are free. 