Nullarbor Net is your interactive guide map covering Smoky Bay, Ceduna, Denial Bay, Penong, Cactus Beach, Fowler's Bay and Nundroo. This interactive map is best viewed in full screen mode (F11 for Microsoft Internet Explorer users) and has clickable links for outback travel through South Australia's Eyre Peninsula.
Ceduna is a town in South Australia located on the shores of Murat Bay on the west coast of Eyre Peninsula. It lies west of the junction of the Flinders and Eyre Highways around 786 km northwest of the capital Adelaide. The port town/suburb of Thevenard lies 3 km to the west on Cape Thevenard. It is in the District Council of Ceduna, the federal Division of Grey, and the state electoral district of Flinders.
Ceduna is blessed with good transport links to the rest of South Australia. Bus services operate 4 times a week between Ceduna and Adelaide, in both directions-with a change of coach midway at Stateliner's Port Augusta Interchange.
Ceduna is very much a solitary hub town that serves the Far Western Coastal areas of South Australia. Heading to the West the nearest town of any size is Norseman, some 1200 kilometers away; and to the East 480 kilometers away is the town of Port Augusta, located on the main route to Adelaide and the Eastern States.
Big Things: The Big Oyster, Ceduna. Located at the Ceduna Oyster Bar just outside of town, the Big Oyster was built as a float for Ceduna’s annual Oysterfest. It is made of ferro-concrete, a type of reinforced concrete, and was retired from float duties in 1994.
Ceduna is located 1964 km from Perth, 470 km from Port Augusta and 781 km north-west of Adelaide on the Eyre Highway.
The name Ceduna is a corruption of the local Aboriginal word Chedoona and is said to mean a place to sit down and rest. The town has played an important but minor role in Australia's overall development due to it being a fishing port and a railway hub.
The town of Ceduna, probably named as a corruption of the local Aboriginal word 'chedoona' which supposedly means 'a place to sit down and rest', was surveyed in 1901. It grew quickly after the arrival of the railway line from Port Lincoln ensured the decline of Denial Bay as an important transportation point.