To be lumberjack like. MUST HAVE FACIAL HAIR and be somewhat muscular. Burly people are usually very nice. Burly people arent skinny, they have meat on their bones.
As a baby boy name, Burly is currently not a popular baby name in the USA. There are no available USA popularity statistics for the name Burly for the past 100 years. However, the following chart shows the popularity ranking for the name Burleigh, of which the name Burly is a variant. USA baby name statistics. The name Burly is very likely a(n) English variant of the name Burleigh. See other suggested English boy baby names. You might also like to see the other variants
A man with a Grizzly Adams look. A man with a big burly beard, burly arms, burly chest, burly man ass and big burly hairy balls. WOW! Look at that Burly Man, he's super sexy!. Look at those Big Burly Man balls!. Burly Man. Often refers to a man who is able to grow a corn-silk like beard. A burly man is not afraid to share his eclectic tastes such as music and authors. A burly man is a true friend who is reliable.
The name Burly has the following meaning: A meadow of trees. It is a male name, suitable for baby boys. Origins. The name Burly is very likely a(n) English variant of the name Burleigh. See other suggested English boy baby names. You might also like to see the other variants of the name Burleigh.
Wiktionary (0.00 / 0 votes) Rate this definition: burly (Adjective). Large, well-built, and muscular. He's a big, burly rugby player who works as a landscape gardener. burly (Adjective). Originating from the east end of London, England. An expressive term to mean something is good, awesome, amazing, unbelievable.
The Mirror of the Sea by Conrad, Joseph View in context. The faces of these false heads were painted in many ridiculous ways, according to the whims of the owners, and these big, burly creatures looked so whimsical and absurd in their queer masks that they were called Whimsies. adjective brawny, strong, powerful, big, strapping, hefty, muscular, sturdy, stout, bulky, stocky, hulking, beefy (informal), well-built, thickset He was a big, burly man.
Just then some masks from outside invaded the cafe, dancing hand in hand in a single file led by a burly man with a cardboard nose. The Arrow of Gold by Conrad, Joseph View in context. On the rail his burly form would stop and stand swaying. adjective brawny, strong, powerful, big, strapping, hefty, muscular, sturdy, stout, bulky, stocky, hulking, beefy (informal), well-built, thickset He was a big, burly man.
burly. adjective brawny, strong, powerful, big, strapping, hefty, muscular, sturdy, stout, bulky, stocky, hulking, beefy (informal), well-built, thickset He was a big, burly man. thin, weak, spare, lean, slight, puny, weedy (informal), scrawny, scraggy, wussy (slang), wimpish or wimpy (informal). adjective
Don't walk behind me; I may not lead. Don't walk in front of me; I may not follow. Walk beside me that we may be as one.. (Native American proverb, Ute). 
The homophone of there/their/they're    There refers  to some place.  Their is the  possessive pronoun of them or themselves. …  They're is a contraction or shortening of 'they are'.     The homophone of there/their/they're      There refers to some place.   Their  is the possessive pronoun of them or themselves.   They're is a contraction or shortening of 'they are'.   . Their means belonging to people or things previously mentioned or  easily identified (Your parents do not look similar, except for  their noses).