The mildest and most common symptom of gallbladder disease is intermittent pain called biliary colic, which occurs either in the mid-or the right portion of the upper abdomen. Symptoms may be fairly nonspecific. In such cases, symptoms can develop. 1  In most cases of obstruction, the stones block the cystic duct, which leads from the gallbladder to the common bile duct. 2  This can cause pain (biliary colic), infection and inflammation (acute cholecystitis), or both.
Gallstones may cause no signs or symptoms. If a gallstone lodges in a duct and causes a blockage, signs and symptoms may result, such as: 1  Sudden and rapidly intensifying pain in the upper right portion of your abdomen. 2  Sudden and rapidly intensifying pain in the center of your abdomen, just below your breastbone. 3  Back pain between your shoulder blades.
1 Nausea or Vomiting: Nausea and vomiting are common symptoms among all types of gallbladder problems. 2  But only chronic gallbladder disease may cause digestive problems, such as acid reflux, gas, nausea, and vomiting. 3  Fever or Chills: An unexplained fever may signal that you have an infection. 1 In some cases, the pain will begin to radiate to other areas of the body, including the back and chest. 2  Nausea or Vomiting: Nausea and vomiting are common symptoms among all types of gallbladder problems. 3
The mildest and most common symptom of gallbladder disease is intermittent pain called biliary colic, which occurs either in the mid-or the right portion of the upper abdomen. Symptoms may be fairly nonspecific. A typical attack has several features: 
Gallbladder disease can occur without stones, a condition called acalculous gallbladder disease. This refers to a condition in which a person has symptoms of gallbladder stones, yet there is no evidence of stones in the gallbladder or biliary tract. It can be acute (arising suddenly) or chronic (persistent). In such cases, symptoms can develop. 1  In most cases of obstruction, the stones block the cystic duct, which leads from the gallbladder to the common bile duct. 2  This can cause pain (biliary colic), infection and inflammation (acute cholecystitis), or both.
Gallstones are the primary cause of gallbladder disease; however, two uncommon causes are gallbladder cancer and gallbladder attack, or Cholecystitis. Identifying the symptoms of and seeking treatment for gallbladder disease can help you avoid discomfort and medical complications. These symptoms may include persistent nausea, queasiness, constant fatigue and vomiting. 3. Assess your pain. Gallbladder problems can often manifest as pain in the upper abdomen that radiates to your right shoulder.
The symptoms of gallbladder disease are often the same as the symptoms of gallstones, including indigestion, burping, belching and more. While most people with gallbladder disease do not experience any symptoms, inflammation of the bile duct can cause these mild, common symptoms: These gallbladder symptoms are often similar to the symptoms of other medical conditions. With screening and tests, Florida Hospital specialists diagnose and treat gallbladder disease and gallbladder attacks with a range of effective treatments.
Symptoms of a Gallbladder Problem. These gallbladder conditions share similar symptoms. These include: 1  Pain: The most common symptom of a gallbladder problem is pain. 2  This pain usually occurs in the mid-to upper-right section of your abdomen. 1 In some cases, the pain will begin to radiate to other areas of the body, including the back and chest. 2  Nausea or Vomiting: Nausea and vomiting are common symptoms among all types of gallbladder problems. 3  But only chronic gallbladder disease may cause digestive problems, such as acid reflux, gas, nausea, and vomiting.
1 Pain: The most common symptom of a gallbladder problem is pain. 2  This pain usually occurs in the mid-to upper-right section of your abdomen. 3  It can be mild and intermittent, or it can be quite severe and frequent. 1 In some cases, the pain will begin to radiate to other areas of the body, including the back and chest. 2  Nausea or Vomiting: Nausea and vomiting are common symptoms among all types of gallbladder problems. 3  But only chronic gallbladder disease may cause digestive problems, such as acid reflux, gas, nausea, and vomiting.
Gangrene develops when the gallbladder stops functioning because of inadequate blood flow. This may occur due to infections, injury, diabetes, surgery, or diseases related to blood circulation. Symptoms may include pain in the gallbladder region, fever, nausea, gas, disorientation, and low blood pressure. Overview. Gallbladder disease is a term for several types of conditions that can affect your gallbladder, a small pear shaped sac located under the liver. Your gallbladder’s main function is to store the bile produced in your liver and pass it along to the small intestine.