Natalia is a female given name with the original Late Latin meaning of  Christmas Day  (cf. 
Russian Meaning: The name Natalia is a Russian baby name. In Russian the meaning of the name Natalia is: Born at Christmas. American Meaning: The name Natalia is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Natalia is: Born at Christmas. Spanish Meaning: The name Natalia is a Spanish baby name. In Spanish the meaning of the name Natalia is: Birthday; especially the birthday of Christ.
Meaning of Natalia. Italian name. In Italian, the name Natalia means-born on christmas. Other origins for the name Natalia include-Italian, Spanish.The name Natalia is most often used as a girl name or female name. Italian Name Meaning-born on christmas.
More About Italian Name: Natalie. It is spelled Natalli. The girl's name Natalie is of Latin origin, and its meaning is birthday. Refers to the birthday of Christ, or Christmas. This was the name of the wife of the 4th-century martyr Saint Adrian of Nicomedia. She is venerated as a saint in the Orthodox Church. 
From the Late Latin name Natalia, which meant Christmas Day from Latin natale domini. This was the name of the wife of the 4th-century martyr Saint Adrian of Nicomedia. She is venerated as a saint in the Orthodox Church, and the name has traditionally been more common among Eastern Christians than those in the West. 
Meaning of Natalia. Spanish name. In Spanish, the name Natalia means-Birthday; especially the birthday of Christ.. Other origins for the name Natalia include-Spanish, Italian.The name Natalia is most often used as a girl name or female name. Spanish Name Meaning-Birthday; especially the birthday of Christ.
Etymology & Historical Origin-Natalia. Natalia is a Russian name, also from the Latin “Natalia” derived from the late Latin word “natalis” which translates to ‘birthday’ (and in particular, Christ’s birthday, or Christmas day). The Russian Natasha is actually considered a pet form of Natalia. Natalia is a Russian name, also from the Latin “Natalia” derived from the late Latin word “natalis” which translates to ‘birthday’ (and in particular, Christ’s birthday, or Christmas day)
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: Natalia is the Latin way to spell it (meaning Natalia appears in the Spanish and Italian languages). It's my favorite way to spell it, personally. However, it's a very popular name in other parts of the globe as well. 
Natalia /na-ta-lia/ [4 sylls.] as a name for girls is of Latin origin, and Natalia means birthday. Natalia is an alternate form of Natalie (Latin): refers to the birthday of Christ. Natalia is also a variant of Natalya (Latin) and its source form. See also Talia. Kreatif forms: Nartalia, Nitalia. 