Incidence and Prevalence of Neurofibromatosis. Neurofibromatosis is the most common genetic neurological disorder that is caused by a single gene. It affects more than 100,000 people in the United States. Type 1 NF affects 1 in 4000 people and is usually diagnosed during childhood. Type 2 affects 1 in 50,000 and is usually diagnosed in early adulthood. Schwannomatosis is rare. NF occurs throughout the world and affects men and women of all races and ethnic groups. NF produces tumors of the skin, internal organs, and nerves that may become cancerous (malignant). It also can affect bones, causing severe pain and debilitation and may result in learning disabilities, behavioral dysfunction, and hearing and vision loss. There is no cure for n
Neurofibromatosis Type 1. Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a genetic disorder that can affect multiple systems of the body. It is characterized by the presence of: 1  Skin differences, such as cafe-café-au lait (spots light brown patches on the), skin and freckles on the armpits or.  groin Most of the brain tumors that occur in neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) are low-grade astrocytomas. They can occur anywhere in the brain, but most often occur along the optic pathway, and therefore can affect vision. Most of these tumors occur by 5 years of age.
Overview of Neurofibromatosis. Neurofibromatosis (NF) is a genetic neurological disorder that affects cell growth in nerve tissue. NF produces tumors of the skin, internal organs, and nerves that may become cancerous (malignant). It also can affect bones, causing severe pain and debilitation and may result in learning disabilities, behavioral dysfunction, and hearing and vision loss. There is no cure for neurofibromatosis.
Neurofibromatosis is a disease that affects the development and growth of nerve cell tissues. It causes tumors to grow on nerves and can affect many systems in the body including the skin, skeleton, and brain. Neurofibromatosis Type 1 is the more common form of the disease, occurring in 1 in 3,000 to 4,000 births. Also known as von Recklinghausen disease, NF1 mostly affects nerves of the outer parts of the body (peripheral nervous system).
Neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) is a rare autosomal dominant genetic disorder that affects approximately 1 in 25,000 people, and is sometimes inherited in families or may arise spontaneously. NF2 most commonly causes dysfunction of the vestibular nerve. 
Neurofibromatosis, also known as NF, is a genetically inherited disorder of the nervous system (brain and spinal cord) which mainly affects the development of nerve (neural) cell tissues, causing tumors (neurofibromas) to develop on nerves, and may cause other abnormalities. Neurofibromatosis is the most common genetic neurological disorder that is caused by a single gene. According to the National Health Service (NHS), UK, Nf1 affects approximately 1 in every 2,500 newborns. Although the odds seem small, Nf1 is classed as a common genetic disorder.
Neurofibromatosis type 1 is a condition characterized by changes in skin coloring (pigmentation) and the growth of tumors along nerves in the skin, brain, and other parts of the body. The signs and symptoms of this condition vary widely among affected people. Mutations in the NF1 gene cause neurofibromatosis type 1. The NF1 gene provides instructions for making a protein called neurofibromin. This protein is produced in many cells, including nerve cells and specialized cells surrounding nerves (oligodendrocytes and Schwann cells).
Neurofibromatosis Type 1 (NF1). Neurofibromatosis Type 1 is the more common form of the disease, occurring in 1 in 3,000 to 4,000 births. Also known as von Recklinghausen disease, NF1 mostly affects nerves of the outer parts of the body (peripheral nervous system).