To help you find a Medicine Buddha, we have searched for various on-line resources that carry the Medicine Buddha symbol, be it in statues, paintings, and even yoga bags, t-shirts and jewelry. Find your own Medicine Buddha, bring him home and enjoy his healing presence and spiritual medicine. The Medicine Buddha golden statue is an excellent feng shui cure for the bad energy of annual feng shui flying stars. You can also place a Medicine Buddha in your Health feng shui area, as well as in your lucky feng shui direction.
Images of the Medicine Buddha overview on the web posters Medicine Buddha, Teacher of Medicine, King of Lapis Lazuli Light (Bhaishajyaguru, Sangye Menla, Vaidurya) His radiant body is azure blue. His left hand is in the meditation mudra and holds a begging bowl full of long life nectar in his lap. A fine traditional thangka of Medicine Buddha is available at the Web site of the Dutch Foundation for Tibetan Medicine. Medicine Buddha Thangkas -- for sale at a reasonable price -- click the image for a superb high resolution digital rendering. Buddha Bhaishajayaguru (Teacher of Healing) at the Huntington Archive.
The Medicine Buddha is the Buddha of Healing-- the manifestation of the healing energy of all enlightened beings.. He wears monastic robes and sits on a lion throne. The principle Medicine Buddha is blue in color. In his right hand he holds universal medicine (a-ru-ra-myrobalan) in the gesture of giving supreme attainment. His left hand is in the gesture of meditative equipoise holding an alms bowl.
lamakathy.net Title, page 1 of 2 First, calm the mind by doing a little silent sitting meditation practice.Second, visualize yourself as Medicine Buddha, sit-ting on a lotus and moon. Imagine that in front of you is another Medicine Buddha, also sitting on a lo-tus and moon. Surrounding the Medicine Buddha in front of you are his retinue of seven other Medicine Buddhas, as well as countless other buddhas and bo-dhisattvas. 
The practice of veneration of the Medicine Buddha is also popular in China, as he is depicted as one of the trinity of Buddhas, the others being the founder Śākyamuni and Amitabha. He can also be viewed as the healing attribution to Śākyamuni, as he is often called the Medicine King in sutras. In the Bhaiṣajyaguruvaiḍūryaprabhārāja Sūtra, the Medicine Buddha is described as having entered into a state of samadhi called Eliminating All the Suffering and Afflictions of Sentient Beings.. From this samadhi state he spoke the Medicine Buddha Dharani.
Origin [edit]. Bhaiṣajyaguru is described in the eponymous Bhaiṣajyaguruvaiḍūryaprabhārāja Sūtra, commonly called the Medicine Buddha Sutra, as a bodhisattva who made 12 great vows. On achieving Buddhahood, he became the Buddha of the eastern pure land of Vaiḍūryanirbhāsa Pure Lapis Lazuli. In the Bhaiṣajyaguruvaiḍūryaprabhārāja Sūtra, the Medicine Buddha is described as having entered into a state of samadhi called Eliminating All the Suffering and Afflictions of Sentient Beings.. From this samadhi state he spoke the Medicine Buddha Dharani.
With full trust know how Medicine Buddha is always with you, in your heart, on your crown, in front of you. There is not one second that Medicine Buddha does not see you or have compassion towards you. One student in Hong Kong does Medicine Buddha practice daily and she had a very heavy brain operation. 
The practice of Medicine Buddha is a very powerful method for healing ourself and others, and for overcoming the inner sickness of attachment, hatred, and ignorance. If we rely upon Medicine Buddha with pure faith we shall definitely receive the blessings of these attainments. Emanations of enlightened beings pervade the whole world, but because our mind is covered by ignorance we do not recognize them. We cannot say who or what is an emanation of a Buddha. Medicine Buddha is an enlightened being who has unbiased compassion for all living beings.
With regard to the empowerment, you should understand that the Medicine Buddha practice is not solely a vajrayana practice.... this practice of the Medicine Buddha is a combination of what the Buddha taught about the Medicine Buddha in the sutras of the Medicine Buddha and in various tantras. A fine traditional thangka of Medicine Buddha is available at the Web site of the Dutch Foundation for Tibetan Medicine. Medicine Buddha Thangkas -- for sale at a reasonable price -- click the image for a superb high resolution digital rendering. Buddha Bhaishajayaguru (Teacher of Healing) at the Huntington Archive.