The average height of the 32 NFL starting quarterbacks as of the date of publication was 6 feet 3 inches, according to Pro-Football-Reference.com. Taller quarterbacks are able to see over their offensive lines to better locate open receivers on the field. The average height of a male football player varies by position. Being taller or shorter can be either advantageous or disadvantageous, depending on the role. For some positions, the athlete’s weight is more important than his height.
What is the Average size of college football offensive lineman? For a fairly major Division I-A (FBS) team offensive tackles range in size from about 6'4 to 6'8 and about 290-350 lbs. An offensive guard (interior lineman) will range from … about 6'0 to 6'5 and about 280-330 lbs. I think about 9 and a half inches from base of the palm to the tip of the middle finger. A very small size for them is 8 and a half inches like alex smith. Brett Favre though … has huge hands at 10 5/8 inches.
Note, this is their high school measurements, not what they are built like now after a year of college. The average size of a trench players signed was 6-foot-4, 263 pounds. If you are not checking in with those measurables, it might be time to dream about Norfolk State, Hampton, Old Dominion and James Madison among others. If you or your son is a guy who is going to be in the trenches, I've got more disturbing genetic news for you. Of the 21 trench players inked last year, none were shorter than 6-foot-1 (and that player weighs 260) and each weighed at least 211 pounds (and that guy is 6-foot-5).
A 5'11, 195-pound safety is considered average, but 2014 prospects Quin Blanding and Laurence Jones have superior size. Blanding, who is committed to Virginia, is a 6'2 seam-defender who weighs 200 pounds. Myles Garrett, who is 6'4 and 240 pounds, also has great size along with a chiseled frame. Da'Shawn Hand has an ideal frame for a strong-side defensive end at 6'4 and 254 pounds. Kentavius Street, who is nearly 6'3 and weighs 262 pounds, also fits the mold of a classic strong-side defensive end.
Let me begin by saying that the average offensive lineman in college football checks in at just over 6-foot-3 in height and weights 302.1 pounds. Here is the top 20 offensive lines according to size. 
The biggest difference is size comes between DI-A programs and the rest of the football division levels. Players at the NCAA D1-A (FBS) level are the biggest and best football prospects from across the country. Depending on the position, they are consistently 1-2 inches taller and 15-20lbs heavier. This is why, if you are trying to make a D1 roster as an undersized recruit coaches have such a difficult time recruiting you. If you turn on the TV to watch the upcoming NFL combine, or read over the measurements of the ESPNU top 150 football recruits, you might be led to believe that every college football player is 6’2”+ and over 220lbs.
Written by David Frank. This is the follow up graphic from yesterday with the average, maximum and minimum size of college football players for defensive positions. Consistently, the D1-A players are an inch or two taller and 10-15 lbs heavier. It is not a coincidence that the #1 football recruit in the country two of the last three years have played the defensive end position. Looking back to 2011, Jadeveon Clowney measure in at 6’6” 245lbs coming out of high school.
Today, only football’s elite players get to the NFL, and they are very well-compensated: by 2014, NFL players on average earn roughly $2.1 million a year. Competition for roster spots is fierce, with fewer than 1 percent of all college football players earning a roster post at the game’s highest level. Bronko Nagurski, the ball carrier who became the NFL’s symbol of power football during the 1930s, stood 6 feet 2 inches tall and weighed 226 pounds. His strength and size helped him plow through would-be tacklers. Running backs today average just shorter than 6 feet, and 215 pounds.
Raekwon McMillan, who is from Georgia, is another huge linebacker at 6'2 and 242 pounds. McMillan could weigh 260 pounds before he leaves college. Outside linebackers are required to play in space on the flanks, so size is usually sacrificed for speed and athleticism. Myles Garrett, who is 6'4 and 240 pounds, also has great size along with a chiseled frame. Da'Shawn Hand has an ideal frame for a strong-side defensive end at 6'4 and 254 pounds. Kentavius Street, who is nearly 6'3 and weighs 262 pounds, also fits the mold of a classic strong-side defensive end.
The average heights of USC’s tight ends and linebackers are 6 feet 4 inches and 6 feet 1 inch, respectively, while their offensive and defensive linemen have average heights of 6 feet 5 inches and 6 feet 2 inches, respectfully. Football players at the high school level normally vary greatly in height. The average height of a male football player varies by position. Being taller or shorter can be either advantageous or disadvantageous, depending on the role. For some positions, the athlete’s weight is more important than his height.