Click on a place to view Brophy immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Brophy families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the Canadian Passenger List
This surname is of Irish origin, and is an Anglicized form of the Gaelic O'Broithe, the prefix O denoting male descendant of, plus the personal name Broth. The surname is widespread in counties Leix and Kilkenny. Kilkenny, three times mayor of Ballarat, Australia, was a well known public figure there in the 1870's. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of John Brophy, which was dated 1659, in the Census of Population, during the reign of Richard Cromwell, known as The Lord Protector, 1658 - 1660.
Brophy in RootsWeb surname mailing lists. Brophy genealogy mailing list for correspondence and sharing of information pertaining to family histories of the Brophy surname and its variations. Or check the index of mailing lists for a sound-alike name. We hope you will participate on the Brophy forums, it is a great place to find or post information on Brophy genealogy and is completely free to participate. We have collected some of the best resources from across the web to do research on Brophy history, Brophy ancestory, and Brophy family connections.
©Copyright 2004 - 2015 Meaning-of-Names.com-Powered by Swigity, LLC Meaning of Brophy Last Name-Surname-Family Name Brophy. 
The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Brophy families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. from the New York Passenger Lists. You can see how Brophy families moved over time by selecting different Census years. Census records can tell you little-known facts about your ancestors such as birthplace, occupation and value of personal estate.
The name Brophy in Ireland is derived from the native Gaelic O'Broithe Sept that was located in the Province of Leinster and in Counties Carlow and Kilkenny especially. It is in these Counties that the majority of descendants bearing the name can today still be found. 
One Bridget Brophy, aged 25 yrs., a famine emigrant, sailed from Liverpool aboard the England bound for New York on May 26th 1846. Daniel Brophy of Castlecomer, Co. Kilkenny, three times mayor of Ballarat, Australia, was a well known public figure there in the 1870's. The first recorded spelling of the family name is shown to be that of John Brophy, which was dated 1659, in the Census of Population, during the reign of Richard Cromwell, known as The Lord Protector, 1658 - 1660. Surnames became necessary when governments introduced personal taxation
Click on a place to view Brophy immigration records. The information for this chart came from the U.S. Immigration Collection at Ancestry. You can find out where the majority of the Brophy families were living before they immigrated to the U.S and learn where to focus your search for foreign records. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival, and destination. You can find out when most of the Brophy families immigrated to Australia. You can focus your search to immigration records dating from that era. Immigration records can tell you an ancestor's name, ship name, port of departure, port of arrival and destination. from 1881 UK Census Data.
American Dollar Exchange Rate. Our surname scrolls are exclusive to The Internet Surname Database. They contain the name origin research information as it appears on this site, presented using an old world calligraphic font printed on an A4 (8.3 × 11.7 inches) heraldically decorated parchment scroll. Each surname research typically contains :-. 