Introduction. Essays always begin with a clear introduction. The introduction sets up the historical question, presents a clear thesis to the reader, and establishes the scope of the essay--the time period, places, and subjects discussed in the essay. In a short paper, the introduction is one paragraph in length.
Whether you are writing the introduction or the body of your essay, you will always be writing paragraphs. Indeed, the paragraph is the most basic building block of the essay. It is essential, then, for you to familiarize yourself with how a good, clear paragraph is constructed.
The basic essay paragraph structure. Even the shortest essay is supposed to include at least five essay paragraphs. The first paragraph is an introduction, then, there are three body paragraphs, and the fifth and last summarizes the whole essay and provides a conclusion.
Many times an instructor will tell you how long an essay or a research paper should be or give you a page number range, such as saying the paper should be between 5-7 pages. If you don't have a page range, the length of your essay can depend on a lot of things. When in doubt, ask for guidance.
A paragraph should consist of six to seven sentences. No, it should be no longer than three sentences long. Actually, it should include a topic sentence, several supporting sentences, and possibly a concluding sentence.
Again, this varies from paragraph to paragraph, depending on the author's purpose, but writers should be wary of paragraphs that only have two or three sentences. It's a pretty good bet that the paragraph is not fully developed if it is that short.
For historical writing, there should be between four and six paragraphs in a two-page paper, or six and twelve in a five-page essay.* More than that, and it becomes difficult to see the larger contours of your argument. Fewer, and it's hard to see where sections start and end.
For big essay tests, where there is only 1 question for a whole hour-long test, you will be expected to compose an entire essay. In that case, write 5 paragraphs including all the parts of a composition of between 1-2 written pages.
The evidence in an essay is the information and examples that you use to prove to the reader that your argument is convincing. Evidence can take the form of historical events, figures, concepts, images, or historical documents or literature that are relevant to the argument that you are making.