Six Good Reasons to Avoid PMI. 1  Cost-Private mortgage insurance typically costs between 0.5% to 1% of the entire loan amount on an annual basis. 2  On a $100,000 loan this means the homeowner could be paying as much as $1,000 a year, or $83.33 per month-assuming a 1% PMI fee. For a couple with a $250,000 loan and a $2,500 annual PMI payment (1% of the outstanding loan), this deduction could translate into savings of $300 to $400 dollars or more (depending upon the couple's tax bracket). Also private mortgage insurance often can be paid up front.
If you have less than a 20% down payment when you purchase a home, you most likely will be required to purchase private mortgage insurance or PMI. PMI protects the lender on a conventional mortgage in the event the borrower defaults and the lender forecloses on the property. 
Payments. Most borrowers now pay the PMI premium as part of the monthly mortgage payment. The PMI rate is figured as a percentage, usually around 1 to 2 percent, of the outstanding principal amount of the loan, divided into twelve monthly payments. Defaults. At one time, mortgages carried a minimum down payment, usually 20 percent of the purchase price. The down payment was meant to ensure that the buyer would honor the loan commitment, as defaulting would mean the loss of a large investment.
Powered by. This mortgage calculator will show the Private Mortgage Insurance (PMI) payment that may be required in addition to the monthly PITI payment. If you'd like to generate an amortization schedule in addition to the PMI payment, use our PMI and Mortgage Payment Calculator. 
For example, for a loan in which the borrower has made a 10-percent down payment, the loan-to-value ration is 90 percent the PMI may be about .75 percent of the initial mortgage amount; a loan with an 85-percent loan-to-value may charge around .50 percent. Defaults. At one time, mortgages carried a minimum down payment, usually 20 percent of the purchase price. The down payment was meant to ensure that the buyer would honor the loan commitment, as defaulting would mean the loss of a large investment.
Last update: June 2013 (includes new FHA rules & rates). When your down payment is less than 20%, you usually have to pay for Mortgage Insurance, (PMI). This protects the lender in case you don't make your house payments, they repossess your house, and they have to sell it for less than the amount left on the loan. 
Private mortgage insurance allows more lenders to extend home loans. Private mortgage insurance, or PMI, reimburses the lender if the borrower defaults on the loan. Defaults. At one time, mortgages carried a minimum down payment, usually 20 percent of the purchase price. The down payment was meant to ensure that the buyer would honor the loan commitment, as defaulting would mean the loss of a large investment.
Private mortgage insurance, also abbreviated as “PMI”, is a type of mortgage insurance used with conventional loans. Similar to other kinds of mortgage insurance, PMI protects the lender if you stop making payments on your home loan. PMI can be arranged by the lender and provided by private insurance companies. 
A: Private mortgage insurance (PMI) is a type of insurance policy that protects lenders from the risk of default and foreclosure, allowing buyers who are unable to make a significant down payment (or those who choose to not to) to obtain mortgage financing at affordable rates. Typically, you send one payment to your lender each month to cover both the mortgage (principal plus interest) and the insurance premium. PMI rates vary, but may range between 0.3% and 1.2% of the loan amount on an annual basis. Your rate will depend on several factors, including: 1  Size of your down payment. 2  PMI will cost less if you have a larger down payment (and vice versa). 3  Your credit score. 4  The higher your credit score, the lower your PMI premium