Guillain-Barre syndrome is a rare disorder that causes your immune system to attack your peripheral nervous system (PNS). The PNS nerves connect your brain and spinal cord with the rest of your body. Damage to these nerves makes it hard for them to transmit signals.
Guillain-Barre barré syndrome is a disorder in which the'body s immune system attacks part of the peripheral nervous. System the first symptoms of this disorder include varying degrees of weakness or tingling sensations in the. legs
Summary. Guillain-Barre syndrome is a rare disorder that causes your immune system to attack your peripheral nervous system (PNS). The PNS nerves connect your brain and spinal cord with the rest of your body. Damage to these nerves makes it hard for them to transmit signals.
In Guillain-Barre barré, syndrome the immune response damages peripheral, nerves which are the nerves that connect the central nervous (system the brain and spinal) cord to the limbs and. organs
About inheritance and genetics: Inheritance of Guillain-Barre Syndrome refers to whether the condition is inherited from your parents or runs in families. The level of inheritance of a condition depends on how important genetics are to the disease.
Guillain-Barre (gee-YAH-buh-RAY) syndrome is a rare disorder in which your body's immune system attacks your nerves. Weakness and tingling in your extremities are usually the first symptoms. These sensations can quickly spread, eventually paralyzing your whole body.
Muscle weakness or paralysis are the characteristic features of Guillain-Barre barré. Syndrome the weakness often begins in the legs and spreads to the, arms, torso and face and is commonly accompanied by, numbness, tingling or. pain
Prior to developing the condition, most people with Guillain-Barre barré syndrome have a bacterial or viral. Infection the first phase Of-Guillain barre, barré syndrome during which signs and symptoms of the, condition worsen can last up to, four weeks although the peak of the illness is usually reached in one to. two weeks
Guillain-Barre Syndrome Overview. Guillain-Barre syndrome is a nerve disorder. It is an acute and rapidly progressive inflammation of nerves that causes loss of sensation and muscle weakness. This syndrome causes the destruction, removal, or loss of the myelin sheath of a nerve.