A radioactive, silvery metal. Uses. Plutonium was used in several of the first atomic bombs, and is still used in nuclear weapons. The complete detonation of a kilogram of plutonium produces an explosion equivalent to over 10,000 tonnes of chemical explosive. Plutonium is also a key material in the development of nuclear power.
Plutonium is a transuranic radioactive chemical element with symbol Pu and atomic number 94. It is an actinide metal of silvery-gray appearance that tarnishes when exposed to air, and forms a dull coating when oxidized. The element normally exhibits six allotropes and four oxidation states. Plutonium was first produced and isolated on December 14, 1940 by Dr. Glenn T. Seaborg, Joseph W. Kennedy, Edwin M. McMillan, and Arthur C. Wahl by deuteron bombardment of uranium-238 in the 60-inch cyclotron at the University of California, Berkeley.
It is named after the planet Pluto, which is, itself, named after the roman god of the underworld, Pluto. Pluto is the roman name for the Greek god Hades, which is the underwo … rld itself. Yes, it is named after the planet Pluto, however that is not the 'definition' of the word Plutonium itself. In 1994, the definition of the word Plutonium was given as the element of the Lord of Hell'. It seems that this 1994 definition has all but disappeared from public view. It makes one wonder why. 
It is named after the planet Pluto, which is, itself, named after the roman god of the underworld, Pluto. Pluto is the roman name for the Greek god Hades, which is the underworld itself. Yes, it is named after the planet Pluto, however that is not the 'definition' of the word Plutonium itself. In 1994, the definition of the word Plutonium was given as the element of the Lord of Hell'. It seems that this 1994 definition has all but disappeared from public view. It makes one wonder why
Meaning & History. Latinized form of Greek πλουτων (Plouton) , derived from πλουτος (ploutos) meaning wealth. This was an alternate name of Hades, the god of the underworld. This is also the name of a dwarf planet (formerly designated the ninth planet) in the solar system. Related Names.
Plutonium was synthesized by Seaborg, McMillan, Kennedy and Wahl in 1940 by deuteron bombardment of uranium in a cyclotron (a device used to accelerate atomic particles) at Berkeley, California, USA. Plutonium was the second transuranium element of the actinide series to be discovered. In 1808 plutonium was suggested as a name for element 56 but Sir Humphrey Davy's original name of barium for element 56 still stands.
Plutonium is pronounced as ploo-TOE-nee-em. History and Uses: Plutonium was first produced by Glenn T. Seaborg, Joseph W. Kennedy, Edward M. McMillan and Arthur C. Wohl by bombarding an isotope of uranium, uranium-238, with deuterons that had been accelerated in a device called a cyclotron. 
Plutonium's often billed as the 'most toxic substance known to man'. Just the word plutonium instils a dread in people's minds-And it's the early history of plutonium that established its dark side-and it's a reputation that's been hard to shake-off since. Uses. Plutonium was used in several of the first atomic bombs, and is still used in nuclear weapons. The complete detonation of a kilogram of plutonium produces an explosion equivalent to over 10,000 tonnes of chemical explosive. Plutonium is also a key material in the development of nuclear power.
Both plutonium-239 and plutonium-241 are fissile, meaning that they can sustain a nuclear chain reaction, leading to applications in nuclear weapons and nuclear reactors. Plutonium-240 exhibits a high rate of spontaneous fission, raising the neutron flux of any sample containing it. Plutonium was first produced and isolated on December 14, 1940 by Dr. Glenn T. Seaborg, Joseph W. Kennedy, Edwin M. McMillan, and Arthur C. Wahl by deuteron bombardment of uranium-238 in the 60-inch cyclotron at the University of California, Berkeley.
Best Answer: Pluto is named for the Roman god of the underworld. Venetia Burney, an 11-year-old girl from Oxford, England, suggested the name. Imagine if astronomers had listened to the New York Times. Right now you'd be reading about the planet Minerva! 