Zoloft, or sertraline, is an antidepressant in a class known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). It is often prescribed to treat depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, panic attacks, social anxiety disorder, and premenstrual dysphoric disorder. These reasons include: 1  If you experience severe or continuous side effects. 2  If your depression or disorder is not under control with Zoloft. 3  If you have been on Zoloft for a while (6-12 months) and your doctor feels that you are not at risk for (or do not have) chronic or recurrent depression.
Zoloft Side Effects-Zoloft Withdrawal-Zoloft Stories. If you wish to read the entire book How to Get Off Psychoactive Drugs Safely (click How to Start on the top navigation menu) the complete book, How to Get Off Psychoactive Drugs Safely-New Edition is available there for free. You may have tried to get off Zoloft in the past and suffered from head symptoms, especially a brain zap feeling, anxiety, insomnia, extreme fatigue, body aches and pains or any number of withdrawal symptoms.
Ad. 2. Monitor any side effects you have experienced. Some side effects of the medication can include: nausea, dry mouth, drowsiness, weight loss, insomnia, changes in sex drive, and uncontrollable shaking. Let your doctor know if any of these side effects are severe or do not go away. These reasons include: 1  If you experience severe or continuous side effects. 2  If your depression or disorder is not under control with Zoloft. 3  If you have been on Zoloft for a while (6-12 months) and your doctor feels that you are not at risk for (or do not have) chronic or recurrent depression.
Zoloft helped me, but i have been on it for 6 years (100mg) and i felt it was enough. It was scary making the decision to come off, my doctor gave me a weaning process like 3 years ago when i wanted to get off zoloft, so i decided to try. Come this September, 2012, I would have been on Zoloft for 3 years to treat my (mostly) Social Anxiety Disorder, General Anxiety, and the occasional panic attack. I really was not a mess--just unreasonably worked up in normal situations (you know.
4. Zoloft: It is really important that you wean off medications under the supervision of the doctor who prescribed it. I have not dropped to a dose lower than 12.5 mg w patients-but it depends on your providers' directives. ...Read more. Weaning off of Zoloft or just stop it without weaning. . . 3. Wean If Possible: After taking an antidepressant then abruptly stopping it may cause discontinuation syndrome (a fancy term for withdrawal). Symptoms include dizziness, nausea, insomnia, anxiety, and electric brain shocks just to mention a few.
Your physician knows how long you have been on zoloft. So follow his or her advice. There is more than one way to wean off of zoloft and taking the medication every other day is one of them. Taking 25mg per day is another way it can be tapered. ...Read more. Dr. Christina Lenk Board Certified, Neurology 22 years in practice 149K people helped. 
Rating Newest Oldest. Best Answer: I am a registered nurse who has tried weaning off Zoloft twice, once succesfully and once failed. The key is to go slowly and make sure you have a lot of support. I also saw my GP once a week to use biofeed back which really helped. I am on 100mg and wanting to wean myself because I feel better and think I have learnt some really good coping skills after being on them for over a year. Source(s): successfully wean zoloft: https://trimurl.im/d80/how-do-i-successf...
I tapered off of Zoloft from 150mg -100mg, then 100mg to 50mg, then 50mg to 25mg, then 25mg to 0. Doing each one week at a time. It was bad. If I had to do it again I would have tapered by 25mg amounts for longer intervals. For example, 150 mg to 125 mg for 2-4 weeks, then 125 mg to 100 mg for 2-4 weeks, and so on. I was on 100mg of zoloft for the last 3 years and 50mg for two years prior to that. I started to taper off about 6 months ago from 100 to 50. That took about 2-3 months until I was functioning OK… then I dropped it down to 50mg every other day, then every 3rd day, then about 8 weeks ago I went to zero.