Kaden /ka-den/ [2 sylls.] as a boys' name is of Arabic origin, and the meaning of Kaden is companion. Also possibly refers to a swamp in Old German, or to an Old English word meaning round. Mainly used as a modern name with many variations. Kaden is an uncommon first name for men but a very popular last name for both adults and children (#40465 out of 150436, Top 27%). (2000 U.S. Census). Presented below is the baby name popularity of Kaden for boy
Kayden /kay-den/ [2 sylls.] as a name for boys. Kayden's name origins are Old English, Old French and Arabic, and the name Kayden means round, gentle; cask; companion. Kayden is a variant transcription of Cade (Old English, Old French): transferred use of the surname. Kayden is also a form of Kaden (Arabic). Kreatif forms: Kaydenney, Keden. 
What does Kaden mean, popularity, numerology and more. The name Kaden is of American origin. The meaning of Kaden is fighter. It is also of Arabic origin, where its meaning is companion and English origin, where its meaning is little battle. Kaden is generally used as a boy's name. It consists of 5 letters and 2 syllables and is pronounced Ka-den. In the U.S. in 2014, it ranked 171 in baby name popularity for boys with 2440 occurrences. It ranked 6267 in popular baby names for girls with 20 occurrences
Kaden's origin is Celtic and Arabic, and its use, English. Kaden is a variant form of the English Caden. Kaden is also a variant form of the English and Arabic Kadin. Kaden is popular as a baby boy name. The name has been increasing in popularity since the 1990s; prior to that, it was of only very light use. At the modest height of its usage in 2006, 0.217% of baby boys were named K
Arabic Meaning: The name Kaden is an Arabic baby name. In Arabic the meaning of the name Kaden is: Companion. American Meaning: The name Kaden is an American baby name. In American the meaning of the name Kaden is: Companion.
The meaning of Kaden has more than one different etymologies. It has same or different meanings in other countries and languages. The different meanings of the name Kaden are: 1  African meaning: The prophet's wife. 2  Arabic meaning: Companion. Form of: Caden. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Kaden and its name origin or of any other name in our database.
The different meanings of the name Kaden are: The meaning of the name “Kaden” is different in several languages, countries and cultures and has more than one possibly same or different meanings available. .adslot_1 { width: 336px; height: 280px; } @media (max-width:350px) { .adslot_1 { width: 300px; height: 250px; } }. Form of: Caden. Keep in mind that many names may have different meanings in other countries and languages, so be careful that the name that you choose doesn’t mean something bad or unpleasant. Search comprehensively and find the name meaning of Kaden and its name origin or of any other name in our database.