The U.S. Department of Transportation has mandated that all vehicles manufactured after 2008 include a tire pressure monitoring system (TPMS). Although you cannot disable the TPMS in a General Motors (GM) vehicle, you can reset the system if you recently checked your tires and inflated them properly. If you do not adequately inflate the tire, however, the TPMS trouble light will remain on. Press the button multiple times to access the TPMS system, and identify the specific tire that is triggering the dashboard trouble light. Press the reset button on the driver's information panel. This button features a check mark, and is at the lower end of the panel.
Also, if anyone nearby is adjusting tire pressures on a car with TPMS sensors, the system may be confused. If your vehicle's TPMS includes the spare, burrow into the trunk and get access to the spare first. Don't forget to top off the tires to the correct pressure. The TPMS light is on, and you stay well under the speed limit until you can check the tire pressures with a gauge. Surprise--they're all low. Surprise No. 2: The TPMS light remains on after you top off the tires to the correct pressure, at least until you can get a replacement tire mounted later in your trip.
Jan 27 2011, 10:22pm. I couldn't care less about the tpms, I'll stick with the old fashioned tire pressure guage, but I'm sick of the light coming on saying service tire pressure system all the time. Does anyone know how I can disable that so the whole tpms system is just off. Thanks!
The TPMS, or tire pressure monitoring system, on your Honda monitors the tire pressure. ... How to Install a Tire Pressure Monitor... 1  How to Replace a Tire Pressure Monitor System Sensor. Press the button multiple times to access the TPMS system, and identify the specific tire that is triggering the dashboard trouble light. Press the reset button on the driver's information panel. This button features a check mark, and is at the lower end of the panel.
4. Push and hold the tire pressure warning reset switch until the tire pressure warning light blinks slowly three times. 5. Leave the system with the ignition switch in “ON” position for a few minutes, and then turn the ignition key to the “LOCK” position. 
The Tire Air Pressure Monitoring System on the Ford Freestar is intended to alert you when your tire pressure is low. Damaged tires, low air pressure, temperature changes and faulty monitor may all cause the system to turn on. The warning light resembles a horseshoe with an exclamation point in the center. To turn the system off you can either service your tires or reset the system. While newer Ford Focus models feature their own tire-pressure-monitoring systems, you may come across situations in which the monitoring system is malfunctioning,... 1  How to Reset a Tire Pressure Light on a 2007 Ford Mustang.
12. You can now turn the vehicle off. If there is a problem with the TPMS, SERVICE TIRE MONITOR will display on the DIC and the tire pressure indicator will flash for approximately one minute then stay lit. If you see one of these warnings, the system is off and is not monitoring the tire pressures. Your vehicle was equipped from the factory with a tire pressure monitoring system (TPMS) that turns on every time you start the engine. When new tire pressure sensors are installed, they must be registered to the vehicle using a sensor triggering tool.