Pulling the energies of the tiger and the dragon into the yin yang symbol helps visualize some of the finer points of the ancient T'ai Chi. The basic symbol portrays the dark energy of yin on the left half and the bright energy of yang on the right half. Typically, each side contains a drop of the other.
The goal of the dragon vs tiger ideology is to achieve that ultimate balance of yin and yang energy. This philosophy translates throughout feng shui principles and can be used for the goal of restoring a balance to the chi energy in your home.
The dragon and tiger represent yin (female) and yang (male) energies. The dragon represents yang and the tiger symbolizes yin. This can be a significant feng shui tool you can use when trying to balance the energies of your home. For example, if you have too much yang energy, you can introduce some yin energy in order to balance the chi.
Pulling the energies of the tiger and the dragon into the yin yang symbol helps visualize some of the finer points of the ancient T'ai Chi. The basic symbol portrays the dark energy of yin on the left half and the bright energy of yang on the right half.
The tiger and dragon beautifully symbolize the yin yang (duality) of the universe. These two symbols of the male and female energies of chi energy have very specific meanings and can be used as feng shui cures as well as works of art.
The dragon and tiger symbolize the balance of power. As in all things feng shui, the goal is achieve a balance of yin (female) and yang (male) chi energy. This creates harmony within your home environment and your life. The dragon and tiger symbolize these two opposing energies.
The Tiger and the Dragon have symbolise these energies-Yin is represented by the Tiger and Yang by the Dragon. These forces can be harnessed by gamblers, who can be described as either Tiger or Dragon, passive (Yin) or aggressive (Yang).
The tiger and dragon beautifully symbolize the yin yang (duality) of the universe. These two symbols of the male and female energies of chi energy have very specific meanings and can be used as feng shui cures as well as works of art.