1 You apply for both the RN and Interim license and they are processed in 2 months. 2  2 months + $200. 3  You get your application together quickly, but after 3 months the Board informs you that you must take a clinical practice course to meet your licensing requirements. 4  Your course takes 4 months and costs $400. You apply for both the RN and Interim license. You submit your course information and the Board approves your Interim License in 1 more month. 8 months + $600 3Pass NCLEX You register for the NCLEX immediately. Your skills are fresh and you've been using a $300 self-study program; you pass the NCLEX on the first try.
Preparing for RN Licensing Cost. A bachelor’s degree in nursing is the first step to fulfill your dream of becoming a registered nurse (RN). Undergraduate education cost would include tuition fees, books, material costs, miscellaneous fees, and living expenses.
As you know, it is possible to obtain a temporary California RN license. The temporary license is good for 6 months from the date it is originally issued. The temporary license is offered to allow applicants to work pending the issuance of the permanent license. So if you are planning to move or work in California, make sure you have enough time to process the endorsement. A temp license may get to you sooner, but you will still have to wait until the payment is processed (about 8 weeks), before anything happens.
Texas is a member of the nurse license compact, and has been since 2000. Nurses may be licensed by endorsement or examination. Texas uses the NCLEX-RN and NCLEX-PN, as do all states. Texas RN candidates had a pass rate of 90.70% in 2012, very close to the national average of 90.22%. 
The cost to apply for RN by examination is $150 (http://www.rn.ca.gov/about_us/fees.shtml#apps). An interim permit or temporary license costs an additional $50. The examination itself costs $200, payable to Pearson. Select the type of Nursing License you are seeking: 1  I am looking for Certified Nurse Assistant Requirements in California. 2  I am looking for Vocational Nursing License Requirements in California. 3  I am looking for Registered Nursing License Requirements in California. In California, there are two separate licensing agencies for nurses. Vocational Nurses (LVNs) are licensed by the Board of Vocational Nursing and Psychiatric Technicians. Registered Nurses are licensed by the California Board of Registered Nursing. California has 385,663 licensed RNs and 87,701 LVNs
There are essentially 2 paths you can take to obtain your California RN license by endorsement, the long path and the short path. Under normal circumstances, the long path typically takes six to eight weeks and the short path can take as little as 24 hours. So if you are planning to move or work in California, make sure you have enough time to process the endorsement. A temp license may get to you sooner, but you will still have to wait until the payment is processed (about 8 weeks), before anything happens.
However, there are still additional licensure fees determined by the State Boards of Nursing for each state. For example, in New York, the fee for a license is $135 and for California, the initial endorsement application is $50. A bachelor’s degree in nursing is the first step to fulfill your dream of becoming a registered nurse (RN). Undergraduate education cost would include tuition fees, books, material costs, miscellaneous fees, and living expenses.
The current fee for a temporary license is $50, which is in addition to the application fee of $100. In order to obtain a temporary license, the CBRN must receive and process all of the documentation described above except your college transcripts. So if you are planning to move or work in California, make sure you have enough time to process the endorsement. A temp license may get to you sooner, but you will still have to wait until the payment is processed (about 8 weeks), before anything happens.
California is a great place for travel nurses to be licensed. The state’s population is over 37 million and accounts for more than 10% of the nation’s total population. So if you are planning to move or work in California, make sure you have enough time to process the endorsement. A temp license may get to you sooner, but you will still have to wait until the payment is processed (about 8 weeks), before anything happens.