Grass seed not in good contact with the soil cannot warm up correctly for successful germination. Seeds rely on warmth and soil moisture to swell and sprout. If your seeds remain at their ideal temperature range and are planted no more than 1/4 inch deep, you should see germination after three weeks. If you have warm nights near 70 F, your soil is typically around that same temperature, making it perfect for seeding in the spring. Be aware that a particularly cool spring and summer may result in dormant grass and germination failure.
Temperature. Grass seed germinates when the soil temperature is 65 degrees and above. It's important to understand that it is the soil temperature, and not the surrounding air temperature, that is the trigger for seed germination. Grass seed that fails to germinate cannot grow into part of a lush green lawn, so it's important to sow seed when conditions are right for germination. Soil temperature, depth of planting and soil moisture are all key factors. Ensure the correct conditions when you seed your lawn for the best results
Cool season grass requires a minimum range of 45 - 55 degrees. Warm season grass requires a minimum 55- 65 degrees. Note that soil temperatures are usually cooler than air temperature. In addition to the density of the ground that is slower to warm up, moisture evaporating from the surface has a cooling effect. A rate of 90-95% is preferred, but some grass varieties will typically be found in the 80% range. The higher, the better. An 85% germination rate means that if you plant 100 seeds, 85 of them should sprout and grow.
Generally, Warm Season grass seed requires the warmer soil temperatures. Even theCool season grass seed likes a warmer soil temperature for successfully germinating... The proof is in the puddin' and that's the truth! Table 1. Optimum temperatures for seed germination of cool-season turfgrasses.
Grass seed that is planted in soil temperatures below 50 degrees just will not grow potentially for many weeks if it does not want to. Usually for the soil temperatures to reach 50 degrees you need 7-10 days of air temperatures to reach 60 plus degrees. 
Grass seed needs a minimum temperature of 65 degrees and will germinate faster at higher soil temperatures as long as the increased heat doesn't dry out the seeds and soil. Grass seed that fails to germinate cannot grow into part of a lush green lawn, so it's important to sow seed when conditions are right for germination. Soil temperature, depth of planting and soil moisture are all key factors. Ensure the correct conditions when you seed your lawn for the best results
Submit. Rye grass seed sprouts in soil temperatures of 50 to 65 degrees Fahrenheit and air temperatures 10 degrees higher. Cool-season grasses, both annual and perennial rye grasses perform best in spring and fall and deteriorate in the summer heat. Keywords: rye grass temperatures, ryegrass best temperature, rye grass seed
Usually planted in the early fall, cool-season grass seeds prefer daytime temperatures ranging from 60 to 75 F. With this temperature range, the soil itself is usually between 50 and 65 F -- the right environment for germination. If you have warm nights near 70 F, your soil is typically around that same temperature, making it perfect for seeding in the spring. Be aware that a particularly cool spring and summer may result in dormant grass and germination failure.