But there’s no set age for LASIK. Most providers won’t perform LASIK on those under 18 because eyes tend to keep changing into early adulthood. But laser eye surgery has been performed on children (with severe vision problems) and octogenarians alike. These are outliers to most cases. LASIK does not correct presbyopia, but some people with the condition decide to have monovision. Monovision is a laser eye surgery that leaves one eye corrected for near vision and the other eye corrected for distance vision. At age 60, the eyes start to change once more. This is when risk of cataracts increases. Some adults get to age 70 or 80 with no cataracts and have otherwise healthy eyes. Despite being outside the common LASIK age spectrum, these people can be good candidates for laser eye surgery
Yes. You have to be at least 18 to be able to have laser eye surgery. As mentioned above this is because your prescription must be stable for 1 -2 years prior to surgery. Although 18 is the minimum age limit it is more important that you have a stable prescription and healthy eyes before surgery. As long as your eyes are health and suitable for treatment, there is no legal upper age limit for laser eye surgery. However, Optical Express and Optimax have a policy of not providing surgery to patients who are older than 70. There are three main reasons why those over 70 are not suitable for laser ey
Instead of relying on age once past the age of 18, whether or not you are suitable for laser eye surgery depends solely on whether or not your eyes are in a healthy condition. An appointment with a consultant can give you an expert opinion on the condition of your eyes and tell you if you are suitable for surgery. As as long as you are 18 or over and have eyes in a suitably healthy condition then there is no upper age limit and you are eligible for laser eye surgery. In the United Kingdom, if you are younger than 18 then you are unsuitable for laser eye surgery as this is the country’s minimum age. The minimum age limit is in place because it is important that a potential patient’s eyes have finished developing.
In essence, you must have had a stable prescription for at least two years, and then only you should plan to undergo LASIK surgery. If you wish to go for custom LASIK, the minimum age is the same as that for conventional LASIK. There is no upper age limit for LASIK surgery. Even a 50 or 60 year old person may opt for LASIK. The point is that LASIK can very well correct the refractive error of a myopic patient at any stage of the patient's life, provided the patient's eyes are otherwise healthy. A preoperative examination conducted prior to the age of 18 might result in incorrect measurements, and consequently, an appropriate correction via LASIK. Patients suffering from a higher degree of myopia or astigmatism should defer the surgery a wee bit longer than others-normally until the age of 21 or so.
At present we believe there is no upper age limit for laser eye surgery providing that the eye is healthy and that the patient is healthy so all patients at the London Vision Clinic undergo extensive ocular review. Mr Glenn Carp explains at present we do not believe there is an upper age limit. But extensive screening process at London Vision Clinic highlights suitability for laser eye surgery regardless of age.
Report Abuse. With lasik, you should wait until your eyes fully mature. This is around age 23, but you CAN get lasik at 16 with parent consent and at 18 with no consent. But like I said, it is advised that you wait until 23-25. You might have to get more surgery as your eye sight worsens but it shouldn't be an issue. Source(s): My dad is an eye doctor. 
Suitability explained further…. No, there is no upper age limit for laser surgery, as long as your eyes are healthy. Some older patients experience a longer healing period after laser surgery, but we can discuss this with you at your initial screening. Mr Glenn Carp explains at present we do not believe there is an upper age limit. But extensive screening process at London Vision Clinic highlights suitability for laser eye surgery regardless of age.
In general, you should be over 21 years of age and have healthy corneas. There is no upper age limit to having LASIK as long as your eyes are healthy and your vision is stable. Certain medical conditions and even natural hormonal changes, such as those that occur during pregnancy, can cause changes in your vision. 