Cognitive therapy (CT) is a type of psychotherapy developed by American psychiatrist Aaron T. Beck. Change may begin by targeting thoughts (to change emotion and behavior), behavior (to change feelings and thoughts), or the individual's goals (by identifying thoughts, feelings or behavior that conflict with the goals).
Cognitive Therapy is based on the premise that what we think affects our emotions, what we choose to do or avoid, and our physiological reactions. (See Diagram A.) In fact, most situations remain neutral until we assign meaning based on how we interpret the situation. DIAGRAM A. 
By Michael Herkov, Ph.D ~ 1 min read. Cognitive therapy is based on the theory that much of how we feel is determined by what we think. Disorders, such as depression, are believed to be the result of faulty thoughts and beliefs. 
CT is one of the therapeutic approaches within the larger group of cognitive behavioral therapies (CBT) and was first expounded by Beck in the 1960s. Change may begin by targeting thoughts (to change emotion and behavior), behavior (to change feelings and thoughts), or the individual's goals (by identifying thoughts, feelings or behavior that conflict with the goals).
CBT can help you to change how you think ('Cognitive') and what you do ('Behaviour'). These changes can help you to feel better. Unlike some of the other talking treatments, it focuses on the 'here and now' problems and difficulties. 
Cognitive-Behavioral Therapists help their patients understand and use the different techniques of this therapy type to handle their issues.nnCognitive-Behavioral Therapists can see patients of any age, with a variety of problems that include depression, eating disorders, anxiety, PTSD, or even insomnia. Cognitive-behavioral therapy (or CBT) is a broad term that can include a few specific types (like rational emotive behavior therapy or rational living therapy), all with similar characteristics.
All Rights Reserved. Cognitive-behavioral therapy is a relatively short-term, focused psychotherapy for a wide range of psychological problems including depression, anxiety, anger, marital conflict, loneliness, panic, fears, eating disorders, substance abuse, alcohol abuse and dependence and personality problems. Why Cognitive Therapy? As you know, there are many kinds of therapy that are available. Our group focuses on a wide range of different kinds of cognitive and behavioral therapies---in order to find the treatment best suited for you.
Cognitive behavioral therapy can be thought of as a combination of psychotherapy and behavioral therapy. Psychotherapy emphasizes the importance of the personal meaning we place on things and how thinking patterns begin in childhood. Pages: 1 2 3 4 5 All. Cognitive behavioral therapy (also known by its abbreviation, CBT) is a short-term, goal-oriented psychotherapy treatment that takes a hands-on, practical approach to problem-solving. Its goal is to change patterns of thinking or behavior that are behind people’s difficulties, and so change the way they feel
Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is a short-term, goal-oriented form of psychotherapy that helps patients correct inaccurate, negative thought patterns. These negative thought patterns are believed to cause or contribute to relationship problems, low self-esteem and mental health disorders like depression or anxiety. 