Muscular dystrophy (MD) is a group of muscle diseases that weaken the musculoskeletal system and hamper locomotion. Muscular dystrophies are characterized by progressive skeletal muscle weakness, defects in muscle proteins, and the death of muscle cells and tissue.
Abbr. MD. 1. Any of a group of progressive muscle disorders caused by a defect in one or more genes that control muscle function and characterized by gradual irreversible wasting of skeletal muscle. 2. Duchenne's muscular dystrophy. Noun. 1. muscular dystrophy-any of several hereditary diseases of the muscular system characterized by weakness and wasting of skeletal muscles.
MD. 1. Any of a group of progressive muscle disorders caused by a defect in one or more genes that control muscle function and characterized by gradual irreversible wasting of skeletal muscle. 2. Duchenne's muscular dystrophy
A. Muscular dystrophy is the name applied to a group of diseases that are, for the most part, genetically determined and that cause gradual wasting of muscle with accompanying weakness. Q2. 
Muscular dystrophy (MD) refers to a heterogeneous group of inherited disorders, characterized clinically by progressive degeneration of skeletal muscle fibers leading to muscle weakness and wasting of varying severity. 
MUSCULAR DYSTROPHY  Group of hereditary diseases characterized by gradual atrophy and weakness of muscle tissue.  There is no cure for muscular dystrophy. Duchenne dystrophy is the most common form with an average lifespan of 20 yrs. CONTRACTURE  Fibrosis of connective tissue in the skin, fascia, muscle, or joint capsule that prevents normal mobility of the related tissue or joint. CREPITATION  Grating sound made by movement of bone ends rubbing together, indicating a fracture or joint destruction.
Muscular dystrophy is a group of inherited diseases that are characterized by weakness and wasting away of muscle tissue, with or without the breakdown of nerve tissue. 
What is the medical term meaning group of genetic diseases characterized by progressive weakness and degeneration of the skeletal muscles without affecting the nervous system? 