If you do, please link to this page, and not the PDF. The human microbiome, the collection of trillions of microbes living in and on the human body, is not random, and scientists believe that it plays a role in many basic life processes. Search. The human microbiome, the collection of trillions of microbes living in and on the human body, is not random, and scientists believe that it plays a role in many basic life processes.
Microbes outnumber our human cells ten to one. The majority live in our gut, particularly in the large intestineThe microbiome is the genetic material of all the microbes-bacteria, fungi, protozoa and viruses-that live on and inside the human body. The microbiome is essential for human development, immunity and nutrition.The bacteria living in and on us are not invaders but beneficial colonizers. Autoimmune diseases such as diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, muscular dystrophy, multiple sclerosis, and fibromyalgia are associated with dysfunction in the microbiome.
This system of bacteria, fungi, viruses, and protozoa living on your skin and in your mouth, nose, throat, lungs, gut, and urogenital tract, is referred to as the “human microbiome.” It varies from person to person based on factors such as diet, health history, geographic location, and even ancestry. It can influence your health but it does not control your health. Your microbiome is influenced by acidity which is a function of the ability of the brain to regulate the function of the digestive tract, in particular the sphincters or vales which operate at the opening and/or closing of the stomach and duodenum.
The Human Microbiome is the collection of all the microorganisms living in association with the human body. These communities consist of a variety of microorganisms including eukaryotes, archaea, bacteria and viruses. Because of their small size, however, microorganisms make up only about 1 to 3 percent of our body mass (that's 2 to 6 pounds of bacteria in a 200-pound adult). These microbes are generally not harmful to us, in fact they are essential for maintaining health.
Gut flora or, more appropriately, gut microbiota, consists of a complex community of microorganism species that live in the digestive tracts of animals and is the largest reservoir of microorganisms mutual to humans. In this context gut is synonymous with intestinal, and flora with microbiota and microflora. Somewhere between 300 and 1000 different species live in the gut, with most estimates at about 500. However, it is probable that 99% of the bacteria come from about 30 or 40 species. Fungi, protozoa, and archaea also make up a part of the gut flora, but little is known about their activities.
The human microbiota is the aggregate of microorganisms, a microbiome that resides on the surface and in deep layers of skin (including in mammary glands), in the saliva and oral mucosa, in the conjunctiva, and in the gastrointestinal tracts. They include bacteria, fungi, and archaea. 
Churning Out Vitamins. Your microbiota also work as vitamin-production plants. Bacteria in the gut synthesize vitamins, and those that they don’t use are excreted to benefit their host. In humans, gut bacteria secrete vitamin B12 and a less familiar micronutrient called vitamin K. The resulting understanding of the microbiome’s connections to human health may lead to a new wave of disease prevention and treatment in which very small, historically unheralded entities have big effects.
The collective genes of the microbiome outnumber your own human genes 150 to 1. The resulting understanding of the microbiome’s connections to human health may lead to a new wave of disease prevention and treatment in which very small, historically unheralded entities have big effects.
The U.S. government’s $173 million Human Microbiome Project (the microbiome being the collective genes of the microbiota, which outnumber your own human genes 150 to 1) is designed to propel knowledge to a new level. The resulting understanding of the microbiome’s connections to human health may lead to a new wave of disease prevention and treatment in which very small, historically unheralded entities have big effects.