Ian dated his Vampire Diaries co-star Nina Dobrev for two years but in 2013 it was rumoured that the pair had split. In May last year the news was confirmed by Teen Wolf actor and close friend Colton Haynes. Somerhalder is incredibly loyal to his fans. 25th April 2014 by Lisa McGarry Follow @unrealitylisa. It was reported this afternoon that Ian Somerhalder is considering leaving The Vampire Diaries, and we have to admit, if it was true, we’d find the news pretty gutting.
If Ian Somerhalder ever leaves the Vampire Diaries ,that would be the End of the Series, since he has been the one ,that is still holding this show together, after the horrendous writing of season 5. Amy on February 27, 2014 at 12:54 pm. I agree, Maria. Season 5 is crap. 25th April 2014 by Lisa McGarry Follow @unrealitylisa. It was reported this afternoon that Ian Somerhalder is considering leaving The Vampire Diaries, and we have to admit, if it was true, we’d find the news pretty gutting.
10+ pictures inside of the Vampire Diaries cast in Belgium…. Ian Somerhalder and Kat Graham get animated while speaking to the crowd at the Bloody Night Con Europe ‘ press conference held at The Egg Gallery on Thursday (May 15) in Brussels, Belgium. Ian Somerhalder and Kat Graham get animated while speaking to the crowd at the Bloody Night Con Europe
1. According to multiple sources who work on the show, Nina Dobrev and Ian Somerhalder have had no issues working with each other, despite their romantic relationship ending in 2013. Sources tell me that they've never seen any awkwardness between the pair behind the scenes. Also, it's important to point out that the best could be yet to come for The Vampire Diaries. Nina was a force, for sure, and Damon and Elena (and Stefan and Elena) will remain one of the greatest TV love stories ever told, but other shows have rebounded from losing a beloved star in surprising ways.
Virnelli Mercader Jul 25, 2014 05:37 PM EDT. Share on Facebook Share on Twitter. In the last episode of ‘The Vampire Diaries’ Season 5, the death of Damon (Ian Somerhalder’s character), had fans wondering whether the actor will be back on the show. 
We know Nina won't be a series regular, and sadly, Michael Trevino also is leaving the show. But Ian, Paul, Candice Accola and Kat Graham are all on board for season seven, which was already officially picked up by the CW in January. 
Fans are still drying their tears after the intensely emotional goodbye between Damon and Elena on the May 15 finale of The Vampire Diaries, and some are even speculating that Ian Somerhalder decided to leave the show because of tension between himself and his co-star and real-life ex-girlfriend Nina Dobrev. In case you missed it, Damon and Bonnie (Kat Graham) both died on the Season 5 finale after they travelled to “the other side” to save their friends, including Stefan (Paul Wesley). Damon and Bonnie faced a relatively pleasant death compared to others who have been killed off on the show in the past.
New spoilers for the sixth season of The Vampire Diaries suggest that Enzo and Caroline could wind up dating. Meanwhile, some rumors suggest that Season Six may be the last or that Ian Somerhalder wants to leave the show for good. 
Meanwhile, Nikki Reed, has reportedly been hanging around The Vampire Diaries set quite a bit, and for good reason. Ian Somerhalder and Nina Dobrev’s characters on the show, Elena Gilbert and Damon Salvatore, are madly in love and always have tons of steamy scenes together. According to Breathe Cast, Nikki is scared that Ian Somerhalder and Nina Dobrev may reconcile if left alone. However, the show can’t go on forever, and if Nina Dobrev and Ian Somerhalder’s former personal relationship is now coming back to haunt them, it could mean the end of the series, or at the very least a major casting shake up, the site reports.