Steps to Excellence Project Pilot Process Evaluation Participant experiences and feedback regarding the pilot of the Steps to Excellence Project—STEP—Los Angeles County’s first child care Quality Rating and Improvement System. 
Pilot Process. The pilot process is iterative. You deploy a limited number of computers in a controlled environment, evaluate the results, fix problems, and deploy another pilot until you reach the scope and quality that indicate you are ready for a full deployment.
PROCESS-PILOT is the most versatile and highly reliable inline laboratory dispersing machine. The PROCESS-PILOT enables working under pressure/ vacuum as well as at elevated temperatures or with abrasive materials.
Upland WorkEngine. A pilot program, also called a feasibility study or experimental trial, is a small-scale, short-term experiment that helps an organization learn how a large-scale project might work in practice. A good pilot program provides a platform for the organization to test logistics, prove value and reveal deficiencies before spending a significant amount of time, energy or money on a large-scale project.
It is an early step in the development of a television series, much like pilot lights or pilot studies serve as precursors to the start of larger activity, or pilot holes prepare the way for larger holes, or the nautical image of piloting into uncharted waters to test a new course. (August 2011). A television pilot (also known as a pilot or a pilot episode) is a standalone episode of a television series that is used to sell the show to a television network.
Pilot Testing. This phase of the deployment process requires working with your IT department and your NOC, to coordinate the introduction of MOM components into your production environment. 
The PROCESS-PILOT 2000/4 is suitable for a wide range of applications, particularly in the chemical, cosmetic, pharmaceutical, plastics, colours and food industries. It is uniquely designed with advance technology and is available with 8 interchangeable modules. It can be customized to fit particular process demands. The PROCESS-PILOT enables working under pressure/ vacuum as well as at elevated temperatures or with abrasive materials.
Typically, a pilot program begins with a proposal that lists the objectives of the pilot program and documents how the program will be carried out. The documentation should also provide a time-line for the pilot and metrics for how success will be determined. See also: project charter, project scope, gap analysis. A good pilot program provides a platform for the organization to test logistics, prove value and reveal deficiencies before spending a significant amount of time, energy or money on a large-scale project.
May 2011 http://programeval.ucdavis.edu 1 Pilot Testing Data Collection Instruments What is pilot testing? Basically, pilot testing means finding out if your survey, key informant interview guide or observation form will work in the “real world” by trying it out first on a few people. 
A pilot plant of a bioreactor. A pilot plant is a small industrial system which is operated to generate information about the behavior of the system for use in design of larger facilities. Pilot plant is a relative term in the sense that plants are typically smaller than full-scale production plants, but are built in a range of sizes. Pilot plants are used to reduce the risk associated with construction of large process plants. They do so in several ways: 1  Computer simulations and semi-empirical methods are used to determine the limitations of the pilot scale system. 2  These mathematical models are then tested in a physical pilot-scale plant.