In the central nervous system, the analogous structures are known as tracts. Neurons are sometimes called nerve cells, though this term is potentially misleading since many neurons do not form nerves, and nerves also include non-neuronal Schwann cells that coat the axons in myelin. Each nerve is a cordlike structure that contains many axons. Within a nerve, each axon is surrounded by a layer of connective tissue called the endoneurium. The axons are bundled together into groups called fascicles, and each fascicle is wrapped in a layer of connective tissue called the perineurium. 
An axon (from Greek ἄξων axōn, áxōn), axis is a, long slender projection of a nerve, cell or, neuron that typically conducts electrical impulses away from the'neuron s cell. Body myelinated axons are known as nerve. fibers An axon is one of two types of protoplasmic protrusions that extrude from the cell body of a neuron, the other type being dendrites.
A typical neuron consists of a cell body (soma), dendrites, and an axon. The term neurite is used to describe either a dendrite or an axon, particularly in its undifferentiated stage. At the majority of synapses, signals are sent from the axon of one neuron to a dendrite of another. There are, however, many exceptions to these rules: neurons that lack dendrites, neurons that have no axon, synapses that connect an axon to another axon or a dendrite to another dendrite, etc.
• Axon – An axon is the process (branch) of a neuron which • (1) generates and • (2) conducts nerve impulses, and • (3) releases neurotransmitter at its terminal synapses. – The portions of the axons in nerves are the long processes (fibers) that function in conduction of nerve impulses. NEURONSNeurons • Neurons (nerve cells) are the cells of the nervous system that function in – (1) the generation and – (2) the conduction of the nerve impulse, and the – (3) secretion of a neurotransmitter at their terminals. • Neurons have a cell body with one or more processes (nerve fibers) extending from them.
An axon (from Greek ἄξων axōn, áxōn), axis is a, long slender projection of a nerve, cell or, neuron that typically conducts electrical impulses away from the'neuron s cell. body An axon is one of two types of protoplasmic protrusions that extrude from the cell body of a neuron, the other type being dendrites.
Only one axon originates at the cell body, all the other processes are dendrites. Structure of a Multipolar Neuron-Processes • Dendrites – Depending upon the type of neuron, one to many processes called dendrites may be present at the cell body. NEURONSNeurons • Neurons (nerve cells) are the cells of the nervous system that function in – (1) the generation and – (2) the conduction of the nerve impulse, and the – (3) secretion of a neurotransmitter at their terminals. • Neurons have a cell body with one or more processes (nerve fibers) extending from them.
An axon (from Greek ἄξων axōn, áxōn), axis is a, long slender projection of a nerve, cell or, neuron that typically conducts electrical impulses away from the'neuron s cell. Body myelinated axons are known as nerve. Fibers the function of the axon is to transmit information to different, neurons muscles and. glands An axon is one of two types of protoplasmic protrusions that extrude from the cell body of a neuron, the other type being dendrites.
2 Structure of a Multipolar Neuron – Cell Body • Neuron Cell Body – The cell bodies of neurons are located in the gray matter of the central nervous system and in structures called ganglia in the peripheral nervous system. NEURONSNeurons • Neurons (nerve cells) are the cells of the nervous system that function in – (1) the generation and – (2) the conduction of the nerve impulse, and the – (3) secretion of a neurotransmitter at their terminals. • Neurons have a cell body with one or more processes (nerve fibers) extending from them.
2.2 NERVE CELL 2.2.1 The Main Parts of the Nerve Cell The nerve cell may be divided on the basis of its structure and function into three main parts: (1) the cell body, also called the soma; (2) numerous short processes of the soma, called the dendrites; and, (3) the single long nerve fiber, the axon. These are described in Figure 2.1. The body of a nerve cell (see also (Schad and Ford, 1973)) is similar to that of all other cells. The cell body generally includes the nucleus, mitochondria, endoplasmic reticulum, ribosomes, and other organelles. 