The PhD is a doctoral degree, specifically called a doctor of philosophy degree. This is misleading because PhD holders are not necessarily philosophers (unless they earned their degree in philosophy !).
A doctorate degree, such as a Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D), is considered the highest academic degree in a particular field of study in some countries, including the United States. These degrees are considered terminal because there is no higher degree that can be awarded.
Brief definition. In the UK, a PhD stands for ‘Doctor of Philosophy’, sometimes referred to as a ‘doctorate’. It is the highest level of degree that a student can achieve. At some institutions, including Oxford University, a Doctor of Philosophy is known as a DPhil.
A doctorate (from Latin docere, to teach) or doctor's degree (from Latin doctor, teacher) or doctoral degree is an academic degree (Ph.D. or Ed.D.) awarded by universities that, in most countries, qualifies the holder to teach at the university level in the degree's field, or to work in a specific profession.
College Degree Finder. A doctorate is a graduate level academic or professional degree. In the United States it is considered the highest degree an individual can earn in a given field of study, and as such, it is often referred to as a termi
In general, however, the PhD is the highest level of degree a student can achieve (with some exceptions, which are covered below). It usually follows a master’s degree, although some institutions also allow students to progress straight to a PhD from their bachelor’s degree.
PhD is short for Doctor of Philosophy (also abbreviated to DPhil or Dr.Philos). This is an academic or professional degree that, in most countries, qualifies the degree holder to teach their chosen subject at university level or to work in a specialized position in their chosen field.
A PhD or Doctor of Philosophy is a postgraduate academic degree that is awarded for several subject areas which vary from country to country, time period or the institution. However, the term philosophy does not merely refer to the field of philosophy, but it is used in a broader sense.