Article continues below. Most episodes of neck muscle strain (or other soft tissue strain or sprain, such as ligaments or tendons) result in a stiff neck and/or pain in a shoulder muscle. Symptoms typically include difficulty and pain when moving or rotating the head or neck. 1  See Stiff Neck Causes, Symptoms and Treatment. By definition, a neck strain is not a serious injury. However, the pain and dysfunction that it causes can be significant. This article reviews both first aid approaches to alleviate the pain, as well as signs and symptoms that indicate when to see a doctor.
Your neck is flexible and supports the weight of your head, so it can be vulnerable to injuries and conditions that cause pain and restrict motion. Neck pain causes include: 1  Muscle strains. 2  Overuse, such as too many hours hunched over your computer or smartphone, often triggers muscle strains. 3  Even minor things, such as reading in bed or gritting your teeth, can strain neck muscles. 4  Worn joints. 1 Injuries. 2  Rear-end auto collisions often result in whiplash injury, which occurs when the head is jerked backward and then forward, straining the soft tissues of the neck. 3  Diseases. 4  Certain diseases, such as rheumatoid arthritis, meningitis or cancer, can cause neck pain.
Examples of common conditions causing neck pain are degenerative disc disease, neck strain, neck injury such as in whiplash, a herniated disc, or a pinched nerve. Neck pain can come from common infections, such as virus infection of the throat, leading to lymph node (gland) swelling and neck pain. 1 This can also cause muscle spasms in the neck and shoulder areas. 2  Tendonitis: The tendons connect the muscles to the bones. 3  With strain, the tendons can become swollen and cause pain. 4  This is also referred to as tendinitis. 5  Gallbladder disease: This can cause a pain referred to the right shoulder.
As well as neck pain and stiffness, whiplash can cause tenderness in the neck muscles, reduced and painful neck movements, and headaches. Wear and tear in the neck. Sometimes neck pain is caused by the wear and tear that occurs to the bones and joints in your neck. This is a type of arthritis called cervical spondylosis. Cervical spondylosis occurs naturally with age.
Activities that cause neck pain. Most neck pain is caused by activities that involve repeated or prolonged movements of the neck. This can result in a strain (an overstretched or overused muscle), a sprain (injury to a ligament), or a spasm of the neck muscles. These activities include: Certain medical problems can cause neck pain. These include: 1  Problems related to aging, such as: 2  Narrowing of the spinal canal (cervical spinal stenosis). 3  Arthritis of the neck (cervical spondylosis). 4  Illnesses such as: 5  Meningitis, which causes inflammation around the tissues of the brain and spinal cord.
What causes neck pain? Causes of neck pain include abnormalities in the bone or joints, trauma, poor posture, degenerative diseases, and tumors. Pain in the soft tissues (muscles, tendons, and ligaments) is the most common cause of neck pain and usually occurs as a result of an acute or a chronic muscle strain. The neck is very mobile, which means it is less stable than other areas of the body and more easily injured.
Your neck (cervical spine) is made up of vertebrae that extend from the skull to the upper torso. Cervical disks absorb shock between the bones. The bones, ligaments, and muscles of your neck support your head and allow for motion. Any abnormalities, inflammation, or injury can cause neck pain or stiffness. 
Neck Pain. Your neck (cervical spine) is made up of vertebrae that extend from the skull to the upper torso. Cervical disks absorb shock between the bones. The bones, ligaments, and muscles of your neck support your head and allow for motion. Any abnormalities, inflammation, or injury can cause neck pain or stiffness. Many people experience neck pain or stiffness in the neck occasionally. In many cases, it is due to poor posture, normal wear and tear, or overuse. Sometimes, neck pain is caused by injury from a fall, contact sports, or whiplash