1 Thus 1-butene and not 1,2-butene. 2  The use of the 2 would be redundant, because the second double bond carbon must necessarily follow the first in the chain. 3  The third main change is that the alkene function must always be a part of the main chain, not a side chain. 1 Hence the pi bond is weaker than the sigma bond, easier to break, making alkenes much more reactive than alkanes. 2  You should know that the pi bond strength is ca. 63 kcal/mol, and that the pi bond is completely broken by a relative rotation of 90 degrees.
1 Note that ethene has 4 hydrogens attached to the double bond. 2  A monosubstituted alkene has 3, a disubstituted alkene has 2, a trisubstituted alkene has 1, and a tetrasubstituted alkene as none. 3  Please note, also, that the nature of the alkyl group makes no difference. 1 Hence the pi bond is weaker than the sigma bond, easier to break, making alkenes much more reactive than alkanes. 2  You should know that the pi bond strength is ca. 63 kcal/mol, and that the pi bond is completely broken by a relative rotation of 90 degrees.
When the double bond is substituted with another alkyl group, the electrons in the carbon-hydrogen bond of that alkyl group can stablilze the vacant anit-bonding Pi orbital of the double bond. This is call hyperconjugation. This leads to a net positive interaction, which makes the double bond more stable. Substituted alkenes are more physically stable. The fact that the activation energy for a tri subst. alkene is lower is because any carbocation intermediate is more stable with increasing substitution. See the wikipedia article here: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hyperconjug...
1 The suffix ene in organic chemistry always refers to a carbon-carbon double bond, i.e., an alkene function. 2  The second change is that the numbering of the parent (longest continuous) chain always begins at the end of the parent chain closest to the double bond, so that the double bond has the smaller locant. 1 Hence the pi bond is weaker than the sigma bond, easier to break, making alkenes much more reactive than alkanes. 2  You should know that the pi bond strength is ca. 63 kcal/mol, and that the pi bond is completely broken by a relative rotation of 90 degrees.
disubstituted alkene. (organic chemistry). An alkene with the general formula R 2 C=CH 2 or RHC=CHR, where R is any organic group; a carbon atom is bonded directly to each end of the double bond. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. 
Answers. Best Answer: In a monosubstituted alkene, there will only be ONE organic group attached to the carbons of the alkene. (the other 3 bonds will simply be hydrogens.) In a disubstituted alkene, there will be TWO organic groups attached to the carbons of the alkene. (the other 2 bonds will simply be hydrogens.). Source(s): 
monosubstituted alkene. (organic chemistry). An alkene with the general formula RHC=CH 2, where R is any organic group; only one carbon atom is bonded directly to one of the carbons of the carbon-to-carbon double bond. 1  Facebook. 2  Twitter. 
Zaitsev's rule (or Saytseff's rule, Saytzev rule) is an empirical rule for predicting the favored alkene product(s) in elimination reactions. While at the University of Kazan, Russian chemist Alexander Zaitsev studied a variety of different elimination reactions and observed a general trend in the resulting alkenes. For example, when 2-iodobutane is treated with alcoholic KOH, 2-butene is the major product and 1-butene is the minor product. More generally, Zaitsev's rule predicts that in an elimination reaction, the most stable alkene – typically the most substituted one – will be the favored product. While effective at predicting the favored product for many elimination reactions, Zaitsev's rule is subject to many exception
In organic chemistry, an alkene is an unsaturated hydrocarbon that contains at least one carbon –carbon double bond. Alkene, olefin, and olefine are used often interchangeably (see nomenclature section below). Acyclic alkenes, with only one double bond and no other functional groups, known as mono-enes, form a homologous series of hydrocarbons with the general formula C n H 2n. Like a single covalent bond, double bonds can be described in terms of overlapping atomic orbitals, except that, unlike a single bond (which consists of a single sigma bond), a carbon–carbon double bond consists of one sigma bond and one pi bond.