The soluble fiber found in psyllium husks can help lower cholesterol. Psyllium can help relieve both constipation and diarrhea, and is used to treat irritable bowel syndrome, hemorrhoids, and other intestinal problems. Psyllium has also been used to help regulate blood sugar levels in people with diabetes. If you are not used to taking psyllium, it is best to begin with a low dose (such as 1/2 tsp. in an 8 oz. glass of water once a day), then increase to 2 tsp. in 2, 8 oz. glasses of water per day, as needed.
Since psyllium is a dietary supplement used mainly for its soluble fiber content, it is not normally considered a prime source of insoluble fiber. Psyllium is composed of about 70 percent soluble fiber, which forms a gel in your intestines, binding to cholesterol and helping to slow digestion.
Sure, fiber supplements are a convenient way to increase your daily fiber intake. But what you may not have realized is that not all fibers are the same. Metamucil® is the only leading fiber supplement brand with 100% natural psyllium fiber — and that makes all the difference. Psyllium husk, a natural dietary fiber originating from plantago ovata, has been the source of both soluble and insoluble fiber in Metamucil for 80 years. Studies suggest that the psyllium in Metamucil works differently. 
1 Psyllium husks are a concentrated source of dietary fiber with many health benefits, composed mostly of hemicelluloses. 2  They are not digested in the small intestine, but are partially broken down in the colon, where they act as a food source for friendly flora. 1 Psyllium Husk is a natural agent to provide sufficient dietary fibre to the fibre deficient food. 2  Psyllium husks promote easy, healthy elimination and sweep waste out of the colon more quickly. 3  To maintain regularity and speed waste removal, take 1 to 3 servings a day, either with or between meals.
Psyllium is a form of fiber made from the Plantago ovata plant, specifically from the husks of the plant’s seed. It sometimes goes by the name ispaghula. It’s most commonly known as a laxative. Psyllium provides more benefits to your body than decreasing the amount of time you spend in the bathroom. 
The psyllium husk is a natural source of soluble fiber, similar to fiber found in grains such as oats and barley. *The amount of soluble fiber in psyllium is nearly 5X higher than that of oat bran. 100 grams of psyllium = 50 grams of soluble fiber. 100 grams of oat bran = 5 grams of soluble fiber. A bulk forming laxative, psyllium fiber is frequently used to treat constipation. It absorbs liquid in the intestines, swells and forms a bulky stool, which is easy to pass.
Psyllium seed husk are indigestible and are a source of soluble dietary fiber. They are used to relieve constipation, irritable bowel syndrome, and diarrhea. They are also used as a regular dietary supplement to improve and maintain regular GI transit. 
1 There are several species of psyllium, but the seed husks from Plantago ovata, also known as blonde psyllium, are the best quality and have the highest fiber content. 2  Psyllium husk consists of the epidermis and the collapsed adjacent layers removed from the dried ripe seeds of Plantago Ovata. 1 Psyllium Husk is a natural agent to provide sufficient dietary fibre to the fibre deficient food. 2  Psyllium husks promote easy, healthy elimination and sweep waste out of the colon more quickly. 3  To maintain regularity and speed waste removal, take 1 to 3 servings a day, either with or between meals.
Overview. Psyllium is a soluble fiber used primarily as a gentle bulk-forming laxative in products such as Metamucil. It comes from a shrub-like herb called Plantago ovata that grows worldwide but is most common in India. Each plant can produce up to 15,000 tiny, gel-coated seeds, from which psyllium husk is derived. If you are not used to taking psyllium, it is best to begin with a low dose (such as 1/2 tsp. in an 8 oz. glass of water once a day), then increase to 2 tsp. in 2, 8 oz. glasses of water per day, as needed.
Psyllium in breakfast cereal adds both soluble and insoluble fiber. The unique characteristics of psyllium fiber have led to its use as a food supplement and additive. Psyllium is composed of about 70 percent soluble fiber, which forms a gel in your intestines, binding to cholesterol and helping to slow digestion.