Barnacles of aging are not contagious and do not spread, although they might have small white or black circles in the center and the surface of them may appear irregular. Barnacles of aging might occur along or in clusters. The spots are not cancerous and happen in the outer layer of the person's skin. The main feature of barnacles of aging is their waxy or, 'pasted-on,' appearance. The spots can be oval and a fraction of an inch across, or might form in long, tree-like patterns on the person's body. Liquid nitrogen therapy, or cryogenic treatment, may be used to treat barnacles of aging and freeze them off. Some common forms of treatment for barnacles of aging include: Ketoconazole PO 200mg QD for seven to fourteen days: Ketoconazole cream can be applied on the person's skin once or twice per day.
1 These skin barnacles are often seen on many different parts of the body but do not appear on a person’s soles or on his palms. 2  To help rule out skin cancer, a doctor usually performs a biopsy of some of these barnacles, if there are a lot of these on a person’s skin. 1 Do not rub or scratch your skin barnacles since this will only cause them to bleed and get infected. 2  If you find that you are tempted to scratch these barnacles before or after you get them treated, try to cover them loosely with a with sterile gauze and bandages.
Get the Latest health and medical information delivered direct to your inbox! Seborrheic keratosis: A common skin disorder that is characterized by benign, painless, often wart-like skin lesions that appear to be 'stuck on.' The raised spots are usually yellow or brown. Treatment, if warranted, involves surgical or cryo-surgical removal. Also known as seborrheic warts and verruca. STAY INFORMED. Seborrheic keratosis: A common skin disorder that is characterized by benign, painless, often wart-like skin lesions that appear to be 'stuck on.' The raised spots are usually yellow or brown.
Seborrheic keratoses is the medical name for Barnacles of Aging. These are harmless spots and skin growth that occur in adult life. Its association with aging resulted in its name. Women are particularly concerned since they hate the appearance of these skin growths. 
Dermatologist looking at a spot on the arm of a senior woman Photo Credit Paul/F1online/Getty Images. The term barnacle refers to a condition known as seborrheic keratosis, where large, benign spots and mole-like growths appear on the body. Usually the result of genetics and old age, there is no way to prevent these dark spots from appearing on your skin as you advance in age. 
The Hyfrecator was used on a smaller skin barnacle. Dr. Jeanine Downie used the device on the skin barnacle and some smoke came off of the skin as the skin barnacle was removed. Then she rubbed the area with a cloth. The volunteer said it was painless.
A barnacle is a type of arthropod constituting the infraclass Cirripedia in the subphylum Crustacea, and is hence related to crabs and lobsters. Description [edit]. Barnacles are encrusters, attaching themselves permanently to a hard substrate. The most common, acorn barnacles (Sessilia), are sessile, growing their shells directly onto the substrate. The order Pedunculata ( goose barnacles  and others) attach themselves by means of a stalk.
1 Skin barnacles are sometimes referred to as barnacles of aging and are often seen on people who are 50 years old or older. 2  While not all skin barnacles develop into seborrheic keratoses, which are benign skin growth. 3  Most of the time, these age induced barnacles indeed develop into this noncancerous benign skin problem. 1 Do not rub or scratch your skin barnacles since this will only cause them to bleed and get infected. 2  If you find that you are tempted to scratch these barnacles before or after you get them treated, try to cover them loosely with a with sterile gauze and bandages.