Even for the short amount of time you stay in the plank exercise, your body is engaged through your arms, chest and core. To do the exercise, simply lift yourself onto your arms so that your hands and toes touch the floor, keeping your body aligned from head to toe. To reduce your plank's intensity, hold the position on your elbows, knees or both, keeping the same duration as in the common plank. For a challenge and added hamstring benefits, you can do the around the world plank, in which you move your hands out and in and alternate raising your legs.
The recommended duration for your planks, as proposed by Yoga Journal, is 30 second to one minute for each set. If you are just starting a fitness routine, you may want to shoot for 30 seconds. If you've been in the fitness game for a while, go for the gold with a one minute plank. To reduce your plank's intensity, hold the position on your elbows, knees or both, keeping the same duration as in the common plank. For a challenge and added hamstring benefits, you can do the around the world plank, in which you move your hands out and in and alternate raising your legs.
If you don't have the core strength yet to do a regular plank, you can build up to it by doing a bent-knee plank. If you can hold a plank for more than two minutes with ease, you can move on to these tougher variations. 1  Lift one leg up. 2  By simply raising one leg in the air, you dramatically increase the demand on your core to fight your body's natural urge to rotate. 3  Lift one arm up. 4  Again, your body will want to fall to one side. 
And I think for most people, that’s an acceptable goal. In fact, after you’ve hit two minutes, I think it’d be a great idea to move on to more difficult plank exercises like these: 30 Days to a 5 Minute Plank and Rock-Hard Abs. In the same breath, there’s no reason you have to settle for the 2 minute goal. I’ve had a lot of people ask me about how long to hold the plank exercise. And I always say the same thing, “it depends.” You know, on your goals, conditioning level, which plank you’re doing, etc.
i keep hearing its better to just do one plank and hold it for as long as you can others say to do sets of planks, eg. 3 sets of planks for 1minute each. Update: i am able to do 3 sets of 1 minute 50 planks with a 4 min break in between each. 
If you can already hold the plank for 30-60 seconds and you’re not looking to set a Guinness world record then try switching to exercises that challenge your stability dynamically, like a set of push-ups or more difficult variations of the plank. 
If you can't hold a plank for 120 seconds, you're either a) too fat; b) too weak; or c) doing something wrong in your workouts. A fit, healthy guy should be able to do a two-minute plank. John is also clear about the value of going beyond two minutes: There is none. Enough is enough, he says. It's just a plank. You probably don't know that Tom Hoel held a plank for four hours and 28 minutes on May 22, 2015, setting a world record. You probably don't know that this is the second plank record for Hoel, a 52-year-old Dane.
Im currently up to 2mins. Start doing a more difficult variation of plank. I usually put my feet on a stability ball and hold in the plank position on my elbows for 15 seconds, then raise onto my hands for 15 seconds, elbows 15 more, and finish on hands 15.
If you can’t hold a plank for 120 seconds, you’re either a) too fat; b) too weak; or c) doing something wrong in your workouts. A fit, healthy guy should be able to do a two-minute plank. John is also clear about the value of going beyond two minutes: There is none. “Enough is enough,” he says. “It’s just a plank. You probably don’t know that Tom Hoel held a plank for four hours and 28 minutes on May 22, 2015, setting a world record.
In class we hold regular plank for 1 minute in the beginning of class, and then at the end we do 30 seconds plank, 30 seconds side plank, 15 seconds plank, 30 seconds other side plank, 15 seconds plank for a total of 2 minutes. 