The inferior vena cava carries blood from the lower half of the body whilst the superior vena cava carries blood from the upper half of the body. It is formed by the joining of the right and the left common iliac veins, usually at the level of the fifth lumbar vertebra. On the left, they drain into the renal vein which in turn drains into the inferior vena cava. By contrast, all the lumbar veins and hepatic veins usually drain directly
The inferior vena cava (or IVC) (Latin: vena, vein, cavus, hollow), is one of the venae cavae, two large veins, that carries deoxygenated blood from the body into the right atrium of the heart. On the left, they drain into the renal vein which in turn drains into the inferior vena cava. By contrast, all the lumbar veins and hepatic veins usually drain directly
Because the inferior vena cava is located to the right of the midline, drainage of the tributaries is not always symmetrical. On the right, the gonadal veins and suprarenal veins drain into the inferior vena cava directly. On the left, they drain into the renal vein which in turn drains into the inferior vena cava. By contrast, all the lumbar veins and hepatic veins usually drain directly into the inferior vena cava.
The inferior vena cava may be doubled (2.2-3.0% of cases) or it may be absent. If the inferior vena cava is absent, the blood from the lower limbs may pass through the diaphram into the superior vena cava by way of a large vein in the location of the ascending lumbar and azygos veins. The inferior vena cava may receive the left spermatic vein. On occasion it receives a left accessory renal vein that passes behind the aorta. It is into this vessel that the usual tributaries of the left renal vein may open.
A large vein that drains blood from the kidney and empties into the inferior vena cava; the renal veins lie on top of (anterior to) the renal arteries. To reach the vena cava, the left renal vein passes over the aorta and is three times as long as the right renal vein. Any of the veins that drain the liver sinusoids into the inferior vena cava on the posterior surface of the liver. Inside the liver, central veins directly drain the sinusoids, the central veins then join into interlobular veins, and the interlobular veins merge to become hepatic veins.
In human anatomy, the hepatic veins are the blood vessels that drain de-oxygenated blood from the liver and blood cleaned by the liver (from the stomach, pancreas, small intestine and colon) into the inferior vena cava. They arise from the substance of the liver, more specifically the central vein of the liver lobule. 
The inferior vena cava forms at the superior end of the pelvic cavity when the common iliac veins unite to form a larger vein. From the pelvis, the inferior vena cava ascends through the posterior abdominal body wall just to the right of the vertebral column.... Click to read more below. The inferior vena cava is the largest vein in the human body. It collects blood from veins serving the tissues inferior to the heart and returns this blood to the right atrium of the heart. 
As a result, the hepatic veins drain directly into the right atrium through the normal caval opening in the diaphragm. The inferior vena cava may receive the left spermatic vein. On occasion it receives a left accessory renal vein that passes behind the aorta. It is into this vessel that the usual tributaries of the left renal vein may open.
Inferior vena cava. Dr Henry Knipe ◉ and Dr Jeremy Jones ◉ et al. The inferior vena cava (IVC) drains venous blood from the lower trunk, abdomen, pelvis and lower limbs to the right atrium of the heart. 