The deep-sea dragonfish has a special characteristic from most of its fellow deep-sea creatures. Most deep sea fish that can produce light produce blue light, but the dragon fish can produce not only blue light but a red light as well. This red light is emitted from a suborbital photophore. In order to see this red color, these dragonfish have two different visual pigments.
The Deep-sea dragonfish is a member of the Stomiidae family. There are many genera and over two hundred different species altogether in the Stomiidae family. The most known about is the Barbeled Dragonfish. This dragonfish lives in the deep parts of the Atlantic Ocean beyond where any plant life grows or light reaches. Most deep sea fish that can produce light produce blue light, but the dragon fish can produce not only blue light but a red light as well. This red light is emitted from a suborbital photophore. In order to see this red color, these dragonfish have two different visual pigments.
The dragon fish is known as bottom-dwellers since they inhabit in deep sea water where there is no concept of sunlight. These types of fish are found in the Indian, Pacific, and Atlantic Ocean in Vietnam, Cambodia, Indonesia, Malaysia, Myanmar (Burma), Philippines, and Thailand. 1 These species are found at a depth of about 1,500 meters. 2  The dragon fish is known to migrate vertically whilst capturing its prey. 3  These fish are capable to swallow almost anything that fits into their mouths; however, they are often found to eat larger prey including shrimp.
Learn some of the most useful leafy sea dragon facts such as sea dragons diet, habitat, and reproduction. The leafy sea dragon (Phycodurus eques) is a marine fish that belongs to the family of Syngnathidae. It is the lone member of genus Phycodurus. Seahorses also come under the same family.
1 The length of the dragon fish measures around 2 – 50 cm (0.8 – 20 inches), with averaging 15 cm. 2  The largest dragon fish measures around 90 cm (35 inches) and is known as Scleropages formosus. 3  These fish are normally found in the deep sea oceanic waters where there is absolute darkness. 1 These species are found at a depth of about 1,500 meters. 2  The dragon fish is known to migrate vertically whilst capturing its prey. 3  These fish are capable to swallow almost anything that fits into their mouths; however, they are often found to eat larger prey including shrimp.
The dragon fish is a big-mouth-fish and has a fearsome reputation in the deep sea waters. These fishes that belong to the family of Stomidae, are also known as viperfish. The radiant barbels of dragon fish are employed for tempting their prey in complete darkness. They can grow to a size of about 20 inches. 1 These species are found at a depth of about 1,500 meters. 2  The dragon fish is known to migrate vertically whilst capturing its prey. 3  These fish are capable to swallow almost anything that fits into their mouths; however, they are often found to eat larger prey including shrimp.
Dragon fish is one of the fresh water fishes. It usually survive along the rivers in the plateau. Its scientific name is Seheropages Formosus. At this moment, it has been found in some where in Burma, Cambodia, Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and Vietnam. In Cambodia, dragon fish is one of endanger animals, because it was a kind of fish species that most of the people, especially the legend of Chinese. It was catch by the local people to market, but last recent years it has been preserved by Conservation International.
Dragon Fish’s Habitat were Build Hydro dam. Dragon fish is one of the fish species that habitat in the cardamom mountain in Cambodia. The habitat of the dragon fish, one of the world’s endanger species that it has been found in Cardamom Mountains has been proposed by the government of Cambodia to build the hydro dam. In Cambodia, dragon fish is one of endanger animals, because it was a kind of fish species that most of the people, especially the legend of Chinese. It was catch by the local people to market, but last recent years it has been preserved by Conservation International.