Uber driver pay varies depending on where you live and how many hours you drive. I make between $20 and $25 an hour in Los Angeles. Studies across the nation show that Uber drivers make over $19 an hour on average. In New York City, the average Uber driver makes over $30 an hour. This is very close to the $19 an hour the average Uber driver makes around the country. I’ve found that the more hours I drive, the more I make per hour. If I drive 30 hours a week or more I usually make closer to $25 an hour.
Paul Brinkmann Contact Reporter. $99 for Uber ride to Tampa that can seat four. Ride-sharing company Uber launched its UberHighway service Thursday between Tampa and Orlando, offering a trip for four priced at $99. If you can get three others signed up for the ride, that’s a pretty good deal
Contrastingly, Uber drivers tend to make much more than that. According to a recent interview Uber executives did with the Washington Post, UberX drivers in New York City can earn upwards of $90,000 a year. San Francisco drivers earned a cool $74,191 for a 40-hour work week. 
How often do I have to drive. Uber's system is designed to be as flexible for you as possible. The system is available 24/7 and you are welcome to drive as much or as little as your schedule allows. We only ask that you make sure to complete at least 1 trip every 2-3 weeks. 
As far as the driver is willing to go. Uber is a rideshare service so most customers ask the driver if it is ok when going over a bridge in the SFBA. Personally I would take a passenger as far as the system would bill you for. Your credit card on file would determine the distance if it had a limit lower than Uber's. I have never turned down a trip because it was too far.
GeekWire Gala: Early-bird tix on sale now! If you’ve got a long distance drive ahead of you and want to save some cash while reducing your carbon footprint, a new app just launched in the U.S. that might be of interest. European ride-sharing company Carpooling made its U.S. debut today, offering people a way to share rides for road trips that average 125 miles. It will be interesting to see if Uber, Lyft, or Sidecar try to compete with Carpooling. The idea is similar to Zimride, which was created by Lyft co-founders John Zimmer and Logan Green, who sold the company to Enterprise in July 2013.
You're in the right place. In fact, if you're interested in driving with Uber or looking for a job as a taxi, bus, limo, delivery truck or heavy truck driver, we think this guide will provide you some helpful information and make it easier to decide on the right opportunity for you. Sign up with Uber. The best part about Uber is the hours are perfect for you and your situation. On the other hand, driving jobs like truck driving can have very long hours and strict schedules.
Let’s do some maths: Assume we get a 100 mile ride at $1.15/mile and 90 Minutes at $0.25/min with a $2 base fare. $1.15*100 + $.25*90 + $2 = $139.5 or $111.60 after the 20% fee. We will also assume you drive a car operating at $0.35/mile, and that your normal area of operation generates $10 an hour.
Yes, I drive with Uber full-time, but the majority of Uber drivers work less than 35 hours a week. It is entirely up to you how much or how little you work. If you already have a full-time job, driving with Uber can make an excellent part-time job. It is very easy and the schedule is completely flexible. This is very close to the $19 an hour the average Uber driver makes around the country. I’ve found that the more hours I drive, the more I make per hour. If I drive 30 hours a week or more I usually make closer to $25 an hour.
To drive with Uber, you’ll need a car that is either 2000 or newer 2005 or newer, depending on your city. You’ll also need to pass a background check, and have a personal license and registration plus be at least 21 years old. Here are some common requirements you’ll encounter for the following driving opportunities: Sign up with Uber. The best part about Uber is the hours are perfect for you and your situation. On the other hand, driving jobs like truck driving can have very long hours and strict schedules.