Minimum Wages in Cameroon w.e.f 30 June 2008 till 2013. In March 2008, the oil-producing country raised civil servants' basic wages by 15 percent and housing allowance by 20 percent. In the same decree, the government raised the minimum guaranteed salary in the private sector by 20 percent as part of efforts to cushion the impact of soaring food prices in central Africa's biggest economy.
Average Cameroon Salaries. The average salary for cameroon jobs is $79,000. Average cameroon salaries can vary greatly due to company, location, industry, experience and benefits. This salary was calculated using the average salary for all jobs with the term cameroon anywhere in the job listing
NOTE: Data for surveys are calculated from added polls on this site. High percentage of visitors have Bachelors / Master degree education. This results with higher average salary than statistics for entire population. All surveys are shown dynamically and are changing constantly with the new entries. SUMMARY. Cameroon. Cameroon has one of the highest GDP in Sub-Saharan Africa. The country has strong economy in comparison to other countries in Sub-Saharan Africa. Its growing was around 4% in the last years. Cameroon has still high poverty rate. One third of the population live below the US$1.25 per day in year 2012.
Where is Cameroon located in Africa? Located on the west coast of Central Africa, Cameroon covers an area of 475,400 square kilometers (183,695 square miles), slightly more than California.
Jobs. The highest average salaries go to Product Engineering Managers, who bring in close to $99K annually, though Operations Project Managers are not far behind at about $82K along with Project Coordinators (approximately $79K) and Mechanical Engineers ($72K). Years of Experience. Respondents who have been working for five to nine years make $83K annually on average. Broken down by tenure, the largest share of Cameron International employees (44 percent) have one to four years of experience and earn around $67K per year
Do career research and find in-depth salary data for specific jobs, employers, schools, and more. Explore Thousands of Jobs. Dive into the most extensive database of job salaries available. In addition, see detailed job descriptions and get information on job satisfaction, job demographics, common job skills and how pay varies over time and between locations. Browse all jobs ».
Back to Salary scales for the General Service front page. 2003 - 2015 United Nations Office of Human Resources Management-All rights reserved. 
Cost of Living in this country for some cities: Yaounde. About In the News Newsletter Blog API. Copyright © 2009-2015 Numbeo. 
Displayed below is the salary comparison by job category. Clicking on any of them will display data only for the chosen item. If you would like to browse through the salaries to view each and every submitted salary, please click on the link below. 