Robert Moses (1935–) is an educator and civil rights activist. After earning a master’s degree in philosophy at Harvard, Moses moved to the South and served as field secretary for the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, working to register black voters in Mississippi as director of SNCC’s Mississippi Project. 
Robert Parris Moses (born January 23, 1935 in Harlem, New York, also known as Bob Moses) is an American educator and civil rights activist, known for his work as a leader of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee on voter education and registration in Mississippi during the 1960s Civil Rights Movement. Moses graduated from Stuyvesant High School in 1952 and received his B.A. from Hamilton College in 1956. He earned an M.A. in philosophy at Harvard; in 1958 he began teaching at the Horace Mann School in the Bronx of New York City.
Robert Moses, who played a larger role in shaping the physical environment of New York State than any other figure in the 20th century, died early yesterday at West Islip, L.I. Mr. Moses, whose long list of public offices only begins to hint at his impact on both the city and state of New York, was 92 years old. Before Mr. Moses, New York State had a modest amount of parkland; when he left his position as chief of the state park system, the state had 2,567,256 acres. He built 658 playgrounds in New York City, 416 miles of parkways and 13 bridges. But he was more than just a builder.
Robert Moses was born in 1935 in Harlem. He had two brothers and his family was poor. Because Moses had strong academic skills he was able to attend a competitive private high school. He then attended Hamilton College and went on to earn a master's degree in philosophy from Harvard. 
A strapping Robert Moses in 1938. (Images via Library of Congress and CUNY). Today, December 18, 1888 is the birthday of Robert Moses, one of the most influential and controversial figures in the history of New York City’s growth and decay. In his day, Moses was an urban planner associated with many of the capital projects we still see today throughout the five boroughs. 1. The “Cross Bronx,” as it is known colloquially, was the brainchild of Robert Moses. But historically it has been blamed for bisecting the Bronx roughly in half causing a migration of middle and upper class residents to the north and leaving the south portion to become an underserved slum of low-income residents.
Synopsis. Born in Connecticut in 1888, urban planner Robert Moses became one of the major shaping forces behind America's modern cities. He transformed the city of New York by pushing for the construction of highways, tunnels and bridges. He also helped preserve land for parks throughout New York state. Early Life and Career. Robert Moses was born on December 18, 1888, in New Haven, Connecticut. His family relocated to New York City in 1897 and Moses grew up in Manhattan. He attended Yale University; after his graduation in 1909, Moses went on to study political science at Oxford and Columbia Universities.
Robert Moses. Robert Moses was born in Harlem, New York, on 23rd January, 1935. A brilliant student he studied philosophy at Harvard University and then taught mathematics at the Horace Mann School in New York (1958-1961). Moses left teaching to work full-time in the civil rights movement. 
''Those who can't, criticize.'' Robert Moses was, in every sense of the word, New York's master builder. Neither an architect, a planner, a lawyer nor even, in the strictest sense, a politician, he changed the face of the state more than anyone who was. Before Mr. Moses, New York State had a modest amount of parkland; when he left his position as chief of the state park system, the state had 2,567,256 acres. He built 658 playgrounds in New York City, 416 miles of parkways and 13 bridges. But he was more than just a builder.