Scores on the individual ASVAB subtests are reported as Standard Scores. Standard Scores are scores that have a meaning relative to a national sample of youth aged 18 to 23. About half the population scores at or above a Standard Score of 50 and about 16% of the population scores at or above a Standard Score of 60. Examinees also receive a score on what is called the Armed Forces Qualification Test (AFQT). AFQT scores are computed using the Standard Scores from four ASVAB subtests: Arithmetic Reasoning (AR), Mathematics Knowledge (MK), Paragraph Comprehension (PC), and Word Knowledge (WK).
Scores on the individual ASVAB subtests are reported as Standard Scores. Standard Scores are scores that have a meaning relative to a national sample of youth aged 18 to 23. About half the population scores at or above a Standard Score of 50 and about 16% of the population scores at or above a Standard Score of 60. 
The standard score does this by converting (in other words, standardizing) scores in a normal distribution to z-scores in what becomes a standard normal distribution. Standard Normal Distribution and Standard Score (z-score). When a frequency distribution is normally distributed, we can find out the probability of a score occurring by standardising the scores, known as standard scores (or z scores).
Z-Scores Explained. A z-score is a score that falls somewhere within the standard normal distribution. Its counterpart on the standard distribution is the standard score. The standard normal distribution and z-score allow all the standardized scores to be weighed equally through a few calculations.
Understanding Standard Scores. The major purpose of standard scores is to place scores for any individual on any variable having any mean and standard deviation on the same standard scale so that comparisons can be made. Without some standard scale, comparisons across individuals and/or across variables would be difficult to make (Lomax,2001, p. 68). A standard score is based on a normal distrbution with a mean and a standard deviation (see Figure 1). The black line at the center of the distribution represents the mean. The turquoise lines represent standard deviations. Figure 1.
A Standard Score of 85 indicates that the student scored one standard deviation below the mean of the normative sample. Figure 2 illustrates a normal distribution of test scores with a mean of 100 and a standard deviation of 15. A standard score is based on a normal distrbution with a mean and a standard deviation (see Figure 1). The black line at the center of the distribution represents the mean. The turquoise lines represent standard deviations. Figure 1.
The mean score is 60 out of 100 and the standard deviation (in other words, the variation in the scores) is 15 marks (see our statistical guides, Measures of Central Tendency and Standard Deviation, for more information about the mean and standard deviation). Standard Normal Distribution and Standard Score (z-score). When a frequency distribution is normally distributed, we can find out the probability of a score occurring by standardising the scores, known as standard scores (or z scores).
Figure 1. On many standardized assessments the publishers base the standard score on a distribution with a mean of 100 and a standard deviation of 15. A score of 100 on such a test (e.g., WJIIIDRB) means that if the student scored in the middle of the distribution (Mercer & Pullen, 2009). A standard score is based on a normal distrbution with a mean and a standard deviation (see Figure 1). The black line at the center of the distribution represents the mean. The turquoise lines represent standard deviations. Figure 1.
Standard Scores to Z-Scores. As mentioned above, a simple calculation can transform the standard score to a z-score. The z-score can be found by subtracting the mean of the standard scores from the standard score being evaluated and then dividing that difference by the standard deviation of the standard distribution. The formula is: z=(X-M)/s.d. A z-score is a score that falls somewhere within the standard normal distribution. Its counterpart on the standard distribution is the standard score. The standard normal distribution and z-score allow all the standardized scores to be weighed equally through a few calculations.
Standard Score. The standard score (more commonly referred to as a z-score) is a very useful statistic because it (a) allows us to calculate the probability of a score occurring within our normal distribution and (b) enables us to compare two scores that are from different normal distributions. Standard Normal Distribution and Standard Score (z-score). When a frequency distribution is normally distributed, we can find out the probability of a score occurring by standardising the scores, known as standard scores (or z scores).