These fats are liquid at room temperature and found mainly in fatty fish, nuts, seeds and oils from plants. Examples of foods that contain these fats include salmon, trout, herring, avocados, olives, walnuts and liquid vegetable oils such as soybean, corn, safflower, canola, olive and sunflower. All these foods also contain dietary cholesterol. Foods from plant sources that contain saturated fat include coconut, coconut oil, palm oil and palm kernel oil (often called tropical oils), and cocoa butter.
Foods from animal sources that are rich in saturated fats include beef, beef fat, veal, lamb, pork, lard, poultry fat, butter, cream, milk, cheeses and other dairy products made from whole and 2 percent milk. All these foods also contain dietary cholesterol. Foods from plant sources that contain saturated fat include coconut, coconut oil, palm oil and palm kernel oil (often called tropical oils), and cocoa butter.
1 Avocados: Avocados contain monounsaturated fats (and antioxidants and beta-carotene too!), which is said to help enhance memory and prevent heart disease. 2  The recommended daily intake (RDI) of fat is 65 grams, and one cup of avocado contains almost one third of your fat intake for a day, about 23 grams. Unlike saturated fats, monounsaturated fats help lower LDL (bad) cholesterol, while boosting your HDL (good) cholesterol. Dietary fat is also good for us because it is one of three macronutrients that supports a number of our body's functions and provides us with energy.
Foods with Good Fats. Most monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats come from plant-based foods, although some meats and seafood also have high amounts. Foods high in these good fats often contain both monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats, but may have higher amounts of one type over the other. Vegetable oil, olive oil, avocados and sunflower seeds are all higher in monounsaturated fats. Peanut oil, sunflower oil, chicken and nuts have more polyunsaturated fats. Fatty cold-water fish, including salmon, mackerel and herring, are high in omega-3 fatty acids, a branch of polyunsaturated fats. Opt for good fats from lean meats and plant foods as well as good carbohydrates from whole foods, like milk, fruits and vegetables. You need a certain amount of fat to help with the absorption of fat-soluble vitamins, cushion vital organs and aid in hormone production.
Foods generally contain a mixture of fats, but selecting foods that are rich in monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats (including omega-3 fatty acids) instead of trans and saturated fats helps lower your risk of many diseases. “Good” fats lower “bad” cholesterol in the blood, decreasing risk of heart attack. Omega-3 fats reduce inflammation and stimulate metabolism, and monounsaturated fats lower the risk of breast and prostate cancer.
Fatty Fish. The term “fatty fish” may sound unappealing, but actually, these are the healthiest and most delicious foods from the sea. Oily fish such as salmon, tuna, sardines, mackerel and trout are full of omega-3 fatty acids—good fats, unlike the bad saturated fat you find in most meats. 
Nuts (including peanuts) and seeds are an excellent source of good fats. Hazelnuts, almonds, cashews and peanuts all derive more than half of their fat calories from monounsaturated fats. Walnuts and chia seeds (the same ones used to grow fuzzy terracotta pets) are extremely rich in omega-3 fats. “Good” fats lower “bad” cholesterol in the blood, decreasing risk of heart attack. Omega-3 fats reduce inflammation and stimulate metabolism, and monounsaturated fats lower the risk of breast and prostate cancer.
Here are the good fatty foods that deserve a place in your diet! 1  Avocados: Avocados contain monounsaturated fats (and antioxidants and beta-carotene too!), which is said to help enhance memory and prevent heart disease. Unlike saturated fats, monounsaturated fats help lower LDL (bad) cholesterol, while boosting your HDL (good) cholesterol. Dietary fat is also good for us because it is one of three macronutrients that supports a number of our body's functions and provides us with energy.
Trans fat in your food. The manufactured form of trans fat, known as partially hydrogenated oil, is found in a variety of food products, including: 1  Baked goods. 2  Most cakes, cookies, pie crusts and crackers contain shortening, which is usually made from partially hydrogenated vegetable oil. 3  Ready-made frosting is another source of trans fat. 