Catalase is then added and the reaction is observed. To view the catalase test in VirtualUnknown ™ Microbiology, complete the following steps: 2. Press the Play button to watch the video. A short video clip showing microscopic observation of a catalase test for the unknown organism will play. 3. Observe the results.
The main criterion for differentiation between Staphylococcus and Streptococcus genera is the catalase test. Staphylococci are catalase positive whereas Streptococci are Catal … ase negative. Catalase is an enzyme used by bacteria to induce the reaction of reduction of hydrogen peroxide into water and oxygen.
Catalse Test Catalase (also known as peroxidase) is an enzyme that catalyses the breakdown of hydrogen peroxide to oxygen and water. Most higher organisms produce catalase, but in bacteriology this test is usually used to differentiate staphylococci (Catalase positive) from streptococci (Catalase negative).
• CATALASE (noun). The noun CATALASE has 1 sense: 1. enzyme found in most plant and animal cells that functions as an oxidative catalyst; decomposes hydrogen peroxide into hydrogen and water. Familiarity information: CATALASE used as a noun is very rare.
Catalase is a common enzyme found in nearly all living organisms exposed to oxygen (such as bacteria, plants, and animals). It catalyzes the decomposition of hydrogen peroxide to water and oxygen.
Hydrogen peroxide is often used as a topical disinfectant in wounds, and the bubbling that is seen is due to the evolution of O2 gas. H2O2 is a potent oxidizing agent that can wreak havoc in a cell; because of this, any cell that uses O2 or can live in the presence of O2 must have a way to get rid of the peroxide.
The breakdown of hydrogen peroxide into oxygen and water is mediated by the enzyme catalase. When a small amount of an organism that produces catalase is introduced into hydrogen peroxide, rapid elaboration of bubbles of oxygen, the gaseous product of the enzyme's activity is produced.
The catalase test is used to differentiate staphylococci (catalase-positive) from streptococci (catalase-negative). The enzyme, catalase, is produced by bacteria that respire using oxygen, and protects them from the toxic by-products of oxygen metabolism.