The Mission San Gabriel Arcangel is the 4th mission founded in California. It was founded on September 8th, 1771 by Friars Pedro Cambon and Friar Angel Somera. Named for the Archangel Gabriel, the angel of the annunciation sent to Mary at Nazareth to tell her of her destiny.
Mission San Gabriel Arcangel arcángel was founded 8 september (1771 4 th in) order By Blessed Junipero. Junípero serra the mission is Named For. archangel gabriel
History. San Gabriel Arcangel arcángel was the fourth mission founded In Alta. California it was approximately midway Between Mission San diego And Mission San antonio De, padua making it the only mission in 300. Miles San Gabriel arcangel arcángel Was founded, september 8 1771 By Father pedro Cambon And Father. angel somera
Mission San Gabriel is on the left. San Gabriel Mission was the fourth one built in California, founded September 8, 1771 by Fathers Pedro Cambon and Angel Somera. The name San Gabriel Mission is for Arcangel Gabriel.
Mission San Gabriel was founded on September 8, 1771 by Fathers Angel Fernandez de Somera and Pedro Benito Cambon. Father Junipero Serra had sent them to establish a new Mission. The Mission was the fourth to be founded and named Mission San Gabriel Arcangel after Gabriel the Arcangel, or messenger of God.
San Gabriel Mission, named for the Arcangel Gabriel, was founded on September 8, 1771 by Fathers Pedro Cambon and Angel Somera. It was the fourth in a chain of 21.
San Gabriel Arcangel arcángel was the fourth mission founded In Alta. California it was approximately midway Between Mission San diego And Mission San antonio De, padua then making it the only mission in 300. Miles San Gabriel arcangel arcángel Was founded, september 8 1771 By Father pedro Cambon And Father. angel somera
Mission San Gabriel Arcangel arcángel was founded 8 september (1771 4 th in) order By Blessed Junipero. Junípero serra the mission is Named For. Archangel gabriel the original site for the mission Carried the Indian, name Sibagna. or tobiscagna