Fungi: More on Morphology. Like plants and animals, fungi are eukaryotic multicellular organisms. Unlike these other groups, however, fungi are composed of filaments called hyphae; their cells are long and thread-like and connected end-to-end, as you can see in the picture below. Rather, the filaments are long and tubular, with a cytoplasm lining and large vacuole in the center. By contrast, the ascomycetes and basidiomycetes are septate; their filaments are partitioned by cellular cross-walls called septa. The structure of these septa varies, and is taxonomically useful.
It is the fruit (like an apple) of the mushroom body and contain mushroom seeds called spores. The body of the mushroom in called mycelium and its individual parts are microscopic. Since the body of the mushroom is usually dispersed over a relatively large area it is rarely noticed. Mushrooms need water for their fruit to grow. That is why a saucer and a humidity tent is included with Mushroom Kits TM. Mushrooms have no skin so they can lose water to the atmosphere very easily. That is why they grow in high humidity (lots of water vapor in the air) conditions.
• Mushrooms are neither plants nor animals; they were reclassified in the 1960’s into the separate Kingdom of Fungi. It is a hidden kingdom. The part of the fungus that we see is only the “fruit” of the organism. The living body of the fungus is a mycelium made out of a web of tiny filaments called hyphae. The mycelium is usually hidden in the soil, in wood, or another food source. A mycelium may fill a single ant in the case of parasitic fungi, or cover many acres
The cell wall of fungi are mostly made up of carbohydrate chitin, while the cell wall in plants is made of cellulose. The carbohydrates stored in fungi is in the form of glycogen. The 'fruit' body of fungus is only seen, while the livi ng body of th e fungus is a mycelium, it is made of tiny filaments called hyphae. The mycelium is hidden., Nutrition in fungi is by absorbing nutrients from the organic material in which they live. The sac-fungi produce spores in small cup-shap ed sacs called asci, hence the name ascomycota. The mature sac fungi spores are known as ascospores, they are released at the tip of the ascus break s open. Yeast is the most common one-celled fungi.
This is produced solely for the release of spores, and is not the living, growing portion of the fungus. In addition to being filamentous, fungal cells often have multiple nuclei. In the chytrids and zygomycetes, the cells are coenocytic, with no distinction between individual cells. Rather, the filaments are long and tubular, with a cytoplasm lining and large vacuole in the center. By contrast, the ascomycetes and basidiomycetes are septate; their filaments are partitioned by cellular cross-walls called septa. The structure of these septa varies, and is taxonomically useful.
Mycelium as seen under a log. Mycelium is the vegetative part of a fungus, consisting of a mass of branching, thread-like hyphae. The mass of hyphae is sometimes called shiro, especially within the fairy ring fungi. Mycelium is an important food source for many soil invertebrates. Mycelium, like fungus, can be considered a mass noun, a word that can be either singular or plural. The term mycelia, though, like fungi, is often used as the preferred plural form. Sclerotia are compact or hard masses of mycelium.
The Body of a Fungus Fungi exist mainly in the form of slender filaments, barelyvisible to the naked eye, which are called hyphae (singular, hypha). These hyphae are typically made up of long chainsof cells joined end-to-end divided by cross-walls called septa (singular, septum). 
Best Answer: the ans is hyphae which is thread like making up the vegetative body called mycelium. the three types of hyphae are rhizoids, stolons and sporongiophores. 
Now, Fungi are placed in their own Kingdom. It is a hidden kingdom. The part of the fungus that we see is only the fruit of the organism. The living body of the fungus is a mycelium made out of a web of tiny filaments called hyphae. The mycelium is usually hidden in the soil, in wood, or another food source. A mycelium may fill a single ant, or cover many acres. The branching hyphae can add over a half mile (1 km) of total length to the mycelium each day