Conclusions— Hyperthyroidism is associated with atrial fibrillation and cardioembolic stroke. Hypothyroidism is associated with a worse cardiovascular risk factor profile and leads to progression of atherosclerosis.
Action Points. 1  In this study, the risk of atrial fibrillation increased with decreasing levels of thyroid stimulating hormone compared with euthyroid individuals. 2  Both overt and subclinical hypothyroidism were associated with a lower risk of atrial fibrillation.
Compared with patients with normal thyroid function, age-and sex-adjusted rates of atrial fibrillation were generally lower in patients with overt hypothyroidism, similar in those with subclinical hypothyroidism, and higher in those with subclinical and overt hyperthyroidism.
Hyperthyroidism has a well-described association with atrial fibrillation (AF). However, the relation of hypothyroidism to AF has had limited investigation. Hypothyroidism is associated with cardiovascular risk factors, subclinical cardiovascular disease, and overt cardiovascular disease, all of which predispose to AF.
Patients with overt hyperthyroidism have increased risk of atrial fibrillation. Information on the risk of atrial fibrillation associated with subclinical hyperthyroidism is limited, and few studies have described the risk in patients with high normal thyroid function and hypothyroidism.
An overactive thyroid (hyperthyroidism) can lead to atrial fibrillation. Too much thyroid hormone can impair the ability of cells in your heart to transmit electrical impulses well. One in 10 people with an overactive thyroid experience
None had a history of thyroid disease or atrial fibrillation at the time of testing. Overall, testing revealed that 96% of the patients had normal thyroid function, 0.3% had overt hypothyroidism, 2% had subclinical hypothyroidism, 1% had subclinical hyperthyroidism, and 0.7% had overt hyperthyroidism.
Sinus tachycardia is the most common rhythm disturbance and is recorded in almost all patients with hyperthyroidism. 44,79 An increase in resting heart rate is characteristic of this disease. 80 However, it is atrial fibrillation that is most commonly identified with thyrotoxicosis.
Both overt and subclinical hypothyroidism were associated with a lower risk of atrial fibrillation compared with euthyroid patients. The study suggests that there should be an increased focus on atrial fibrillation in patients with subclinical hyperthyroidism and high normal thyroid function.
1 In this study, the risk of atrial fibrillation increased with decreasing levels of thyroid stimulating hormone compared with euthyroid individuals. 2  Both overt and subclinical hypothyroidism were associated with a lower risk of atrial fibrillation.